"How----" he began, and then stopped short, for Archie had silenced him with an almost imperceptible
sign towards Brian Luttrell.

"We heard two shots," muttered Donald, as he also bent over the prostrate form.

"Only one, I think," said Archie.

His brother pulled him aside.

"I tell you I heard two," he said in a hushed voice. "You didn't fire?"

"I had no gun."

"Was it Brian?"

"Yes. He shot straight at--at Richard; didn't see him a bit. He was always short-sighted."

Donald gave his brother a look, and then turned to the keeper, whose face was working with
unwonted emotion at the sight before him.

"We must get help," he said, gravely. "He must be carried home, and some one must go to Dunmuir.
Brian, shall I send to the village for you?"

He touched Brian's shoulder as he spoke. The young man rose, and turned his pale face and lack-lustre
eyes towards his friend as though he could not understand the question. Donald, repeated it,
changing the form a little.

"Shall I send for the men?" he said.

Brian pressed his hand to his forehead.

"The men?" he said, vaguely.

"To carry--him to the house."

Donald was compassionate, but he was uncomprehending of his friend's apparent want of emotion.
He wanted to stir him up to a more definite show of feeling. And to some extent he got his wish.

A look of horror came into Brian's eyes; a shudder ran through his frame.

"Oh, my God!" he whispered, hoarsely, "is it I who have done this thing?"

And then he threw up his hands as though to screen his eyes from the sight of the dead face,
staggered a few steps away from the little group, and fell fainting to the ground.

It was a sad procession that wound its way through the woodland paths at last, and stopped
at the gate of Netherglen. Brian had recovered sufficiently to walk like a mourner behind the
covered stretcher on which his brother's form was laid; but he paid little attention to the
whispers that were exchanged from time to time between the Grants and the men who carried that
melancholy burden to the Luttrells' door. On coming to himself after his swoon he wept like
a child for a little time, but had then collected himself and become sadly quiet and calm.
Still, he was scarcely awake to anything but the mere fact of his great misfortune, and it
was not until the question was actually put to him, that he asked himself whether he could
bear to take the news to his mother of the death of her eldest son.

Brave as he was, he shrank from the task. "No, no!" he said, looking wildly into Donald's face.
"Not I. I am not the one to tell her, that I--that I-----"

A great sob burst from him in spite of his usual self-control. Donald Grant turned aside; he
did not know how to bear the spectacle of grief such as this. And there were others to be thought
of beside Mrs. Luttrell. Miss Vivian--Richard Luttrell's promised wife--was in the house; Donald
Grant's own sisters were still waiting for him and Archie. It was impossible to go up to the
house without preparing its tenants for the blow that had fallen upon them. Yet who would prepare
them?

"Here is the doctor," said Archie, turning towards the road. "He will tell them."

Doctor Muir had long been a trusted friend of the Luttrell family. He had liked Richard rather
less than any other member of the household, but he was sincerely grieved and shocked by the
news which had greeted him as he went upon his rounds. The Grants drew him aside and gave him
their account of the accident before he spoke to Brian. The doctor had tears in his eyes when
they had finished. He went up to Brian and pressed his unresponsive hand.

"My boy--my boy!" he said; "don't be cast down. It was the will of God." He pulled out a handkerchief
and rubbed away a tear from his eyes as he spoke. "Shall I just see your poor mother? I'll
step up to the house, and ye'll wait here till my return. Eh, but it's awful, awful!" The old
man uttered the last words more to himself than to Brian, whose hand he again shook mechanically
before he turned away.

Brian followed him closely. "Doctor," he said, in a low, husky voice, "I'll go with you."

"You'll do nothing of the sort," said Dr. Muir, sharply. "Why, man, your face would be enough
to tell the news, in all conscience. You may walk to the door with me--the back door, if you
please--but further you shall not come until I have seen Mistress Luttrell. Here, give me your
arm; you're not fit to go alone with that white face. And how did it happen, my poor lad?"

"I don't know--I can't tell," said Brian, slowly. "I saw the bird rise from the bank--and then
I saw something moving--but I thought I must be mistaken; and I fired, and he--he fell! By
my hand, too! Oh, Doctor, is there a God in Heaven to let such things be?"

"Hut, tut, tut, but we'll have no such words as these, my bairn. If the Lord lets these things
happen, we'll maybe find that He's had some good reason for't. He's always in the right. And
ye must just learn to bow yourself, Brian, to the will of the Almighty, for there's no denying
but He's laid a sore trial upon ye, my poor lad, and one that will be hard to bear."

"I shall never bear it," said Brian, who caught but imperfectly the drift of the doctor's simple
words of comfort. "It is too hard--too hard to bear."

They had reached the back door, by which Dr. Muir preferred to make his entrance. He uttered
a few words to the servants about the accident that had occurred, and then sent a message asking
to speak alone with Mrs. Luttrell. The answer came back that Mrs. Luttrell would see him in
the study. And thither the doctor went, leaving Brian in one of the cold, stone corridors that
divided the kitchens and offices from the living-rooms of the house. Meanwhile, the body of
Richard Luttrell was silently carried into one of the lower rooms until another place could
be prepared for its reception.

How long Brian waited, with his forehead, pressed against the wall, deaf and blind to everything
but an overmastering dread of his mother's agony which had taken complete possession of him,
he did not know. He only knew that after a certain time--an eternity it seemed to him--a bitter,
wailing cry came to his ears; a cry that pierced through the thick walls and echoed down the
dark passages, although it was neither loud nor long. But there was something in the intensity
of the grief that it expressed which seemed to give it a peculiarly penetrating quality. Ah,
it was this sound that Brian now knew he had been dreading; this sound that cut him to the heart.

Dr. Muir, on coming hurriedly out from the study, found Brian in the corridor with his hands
pressed to his ears as if to keep out the sound of that one fearful cry.

"Come away, my boy," he said, pitifully. "We can do no good here. Where is Miss Vivian?"

Brian's hands dropped to his sides. He kept his eyes fixed on the doctor's face as if he would
read his very soul. And for the moment Doctor Muir could not meet that piercing gaze. He tried
to pass on, but Brian laid his hand on his arm.

"Tell me all," he said. "What does my mother say? Has it killed her?"

"Killed her? People are not so easily killed by grief, my dear Mr. Brian," said the doctor.
"Come away, come away. Your mother is not just herself, and speaks wildly, as mothers are wont
to do when they lose their first-born son. We'll not mind what she says just now. Where is
Miss Vivian? It is she that I want to see."

"I understand," said Brian, taking away his hands from the doctor's arm and hiding his face
with them, "my mother will not see me; she will not forgive my--my--accursed carelessness----"

"Worse than that!" muttered the doctor to himself, but, fortunately, Brian did not hear. And
at that moment a slender woman's figure appeared at the end of the corridor; it hesitated,
moved slowly forward, and then approached them hastily.

"Is Mrs. Luttrell ill?" asked Angela.

She had a candle in her hand, and the beams fell full upon her soft, white dress and the Eucharis
lily in her hair. She had twisted a string of pearls three times round her neck--it was an
heirloom of great value. The other ornaments were all Richard's gifts; two broad bands of gold
set with pearls and diamonds upon her arms, and the diamond ring which had been the pledge
of her betrothal. She was very pale, and her eyes were large with anxiety as she asked her
question of the two men, whom her appearance had struck with dumbness. Brian turned away with
a half-audible groan. Doctor Muir looked at her intently from beneath his shaggy, grey eyebrows,
and did not speak.

"I know there is something wrong, or you would not stand like this outside Mrs. Luttrell's
door," said Angela, with a quiver in her sweet voice. "And Richard is not here! Where is Richard?"

There was silence.

"Something has happened to Richard? Some accident--some----"

She stopped, looked at Brian's averted face, and shivered as if an icy wind had passed over
her. Doctor Muir took the candle from her hand, then opened his lips to speak. But she stopped
him. "Don't tell me," she said. "I am going to his mother. I shall learn it in a moment from
her face. Besides--I know--I know."

The delicate tinting had left her cheeks and lips; her eyes were distended, her limbs trembled
as she moved. Doctor Muir stood aside, giving her the benefit of keen professional scrutiny
as she passed; but he was satisfied. She was not a woman who would either faint or scream in
an emergency. She might suffer, but she would suffer in silence rather than add by word or
deed one iota to the burden of suffering that another might have to bear. Therefore, Doctor
Muir let her enter the room in which the widowed mother wept, and prayed in his heart that
Angela Vivian might receive the news of her bereavement in a different spirit from that shown
by Mrs. Luttrell.

The noise of shuffling feet, of muffled voices, of stifled sobs, reached the ears of the watchers
in the corridor from another part of the house. Doctor Muir had sent a messenger to bid the
men advance with their sad burden to a side door which opened into a sitting-room not very
generally used. The housekeeper, an old and faithful servant of the family, had already prepared
it, according to the doctor's orders, for the reception of the dead. The visitors hurriedly
took their departure; Donald Grant's wagonette had been at the door some little time, and,
as soon as he had seen poor Richard Luttrell's remains laid upon a long table in the sitting-room,
he drove silently away, with Archie on the box-seat beside him, and the three girls in the
seats behind, crying over the troubles of their friends.

Doctor Muir and Brian Luttrell remained for some time in the passage outside the study door.
The doctor tried several times to persuade his companion to leave his post, but Brian refused
to do so.

"I must wait; I must see my mother," he repeated, when the doctor pressed him to come away.
"Oh, I know that she will not want to see me; she will never wish to look on my face again,
but I must see her and remind her that--that--she has one son left--who loves her still." And
then Brian's voice broke and he said no more. Doctor Muir shook his head. He did not believe
that Mrs. Luttrell would be much comforted by his reminder. She had never seemed to love her
second son.

"Where is Hugo?" the doctor asked, in an undertone, when the silence had lasted some time.

"I do not know."

"He will be home to-night?"

"I do not know."

All this time no sound had reached them from the interior of the room where the two women sat
together. Their voices must have been very low, their sobs subdued. Angela had not cried out
as Mrs. Luttrell had done when she received the fatal news. No movement, no sign of grief was
to be heard.

Brian lifted up his grief-stricken eyes at last, and fixed them on the doctor's face.

"Are they dead?" he muttered, strangely. "Will they never speak again?"

Doctor Muir did not immediately reply. He had placed the candle on a wooden bracket in the
wall, and its flickering beams lighted, the dark corridor so feebly that until now he had scarcely
caught a glimpse of the young man's haggard looks. They frightened him a little. He himself
took life so easily--fretted so little against the inevitable--that he scarcely understood
the look of anguish which an hour or two of trouble had imprinted upon Brian Luttrell's face.
It was the kind of sorrow which has been known to turn a man's hair from black to white in
a single night.

"I will knock at the door," said the doctor. But before he could carry out his intention, footsteps
were heard, and the handle of the door was turned. Both men drew back involuntarily into the
shadow as Mrs. Luttrell and Angela came forth.

Angela had been weeping, but there were no signs of tears upon the elder woman's face. Rigid,
white, and hard, it looked almost as if it were carved in stone; a mute image of misery too
deep for tears. There were lines upon her brow that had never been seen there before; her lips
were tightly compressed; her eyes fiercely bright. She had thrown a black shawl over her head
on coming away from the drawing-room into the draughty corridors. This shawl, which she had
forgotten to remove, together with the dead blackness of her dress, gave her pale face a strangely
spectral appearance. Clinging to her, and yet guiding her, came Angela, with the white flower
crushed and drooping from her hair. She also was ashy pale, but there was a more natural and
tender look of grief to be read in her wet eyes and on her trembling lips than in the stony
tranquility of Richard Luttrell's mother.

Brian could not contain himself. He rushed forward and threw himself on the ground at his mother's
feet. Mrs. Luttrell shrank back a little and clutched Angela's arm fiercely with her thin,
white fingers.

"Mother, speak to me; tell me that you--mother, only speak!"

His voice died away in irrepressible sobs which shook him from head to foot. He dared not utter
the word "forgiveness" yet. Unintentional as the harm might be that his hand had done, it was
sadly irreparable, too.

Mrs. Luttrell looked at him with scarcely a change of feature, and tried to withdraw some stray
fold of her garments from his grasp. He resisted; he would not let her go. His heart was aching
with his own trouble, and with the consciousness of her loss--Angela's loss--all the suffering
that Richard's death would inflict upon these two women who had loved him so devotedly. He
yearned for one little word of comfort and affection, which even in that terrible moment, a
mother should have known so well how to give. But he lay at that mother's feet in vain.

It was Angela who spoke first.

"Speak to him, mother," she said, tremblingly. "See how he suffers. It was not his fault."

The tears ran down her pale cheeks unnoticed as she spoke. It was only natural to Angela that
her first words should be words of consolation to another, not of sorrow for her own great
loss. But Mrs. Luttrell did not unclose her lips.

"Ye'll not be hard upon him, madam," said the old doctor, deprecatingly. "Your own lad, and
a lad that kneels to you for a gentle word, and will be heartbroken if you say him nay."

"And is my heart not broken?" asked the mother, lifting her head and looking away into the
darkness of the long corridor. "The son that I loved is dead; the boy that came to me like
a little angel in the spring of my youth--they say that he is dead and cold. I am going to
look at his face again. Come, Angela. Perhaps they have spoken falsely, and he is alive--not
murdered, after all."

"Murdered? Mother!"

Brian raised himself a little and repeated the word with shuddering emphasis.

"Murdered!" said Mrs. Luttrell, steadily, as she turned her burning eyes full upon the countenance
of her younger son; as if to watch the workings of his agitated features. "If not by the laws
of man, by God's laws you are guilty. You had quarrelled with him that day; and you took your
revenge. I tell you, James Muir, and you, Angela Vivian, that Brian Luttrell took his brother's
life by no mistake--that he is Richard's murderer----"

"No; I swear it by the God who made me--no!" cried Brian, springing to his feet.

But his mother had turned away.

CHAPTER V.

THE DEAD MAN'S TESTIMONY.

About ten o'clock at night Hugo Luttrell was seen entering the courtyard at the back of the
house, where keepers, grooms, and indoor servants were collected in a group, discussing in
low tones the event of the day. Seeing these persons, he seemed inclined to go back by the
way that he had come; but the butler--an old Englishman who had been in the Luttrell family
before Edward Luttrell ever thought of marrying a Scotch heiress and settling for the greater
part of every year at Netherglen--this said butler, whose name was William Whale, caught sight
of the young fellow and accosted him by name.

"Mr. Hugo, sir, there's been many inquiries after you," he began in a lugubrious tone of voice.

"After me, William?" Hugo looked frightened and uneasy. "What for?"

"You won't have heard of the calamity that has come upon the house," said William, shaking
his head solemnly; "and it will be a great shock to you, no doubt, sir; a terrible shock. Stand
back, you men, there; let Mr. Hugo pass. Come into the housekeeper's room, sir. There's a fire
in it; the night has turned chilly. Go softly, if you please, sir."

Hugo followed the old man without another question. He looked haggard and wearied; his clothes
were wet, torn and soiled; his very hair was damp, and his boots were soaked and burst as though
from a long day's tramp. Mrs. Shairp, the housekeeper, with whom he was a favourite, uttered
a startled exclamation at his appearance.

"Guid guide us, sirs! and whaur hae ye been hidin' yoursel' a' this day an' nicht, Mr. Hugo?
We've baen sair trouble i' th' hoose, and naebody kent your whaurabouts. Bairn! but ye're just
droukit! Whaur hae you hidden yoursel' then?"

"Hidden!" Hugo repeated, catching at one of the good woman's words and ignoring the others.
"I've not hidden anywhere. I've been over the hills a bit--that's all. What is the matter?"

He seated himself in the old woman's cushioned chair, and leaned forward to warm himself at
the fire as he spoke, holding out first one hand and then the other to the leaping blaze.

"How will I tell you?" said Mrs. Shairp, relapsing into the tears she had been shedding for
the last two hours or more. "Is it possible that ye've heard naething ava? The laird--Netherglen
himsel'--oor maister--and have you heard naething aboot him as you cam doun by the muir? I'd
hae thocht shame to let you gang hame unkent, if I had been Jenny Burns at the lodge."

"I did not come that way," said Hugo, impatiently. "What is the matter with the laird?"

"Maitter?--maitter wi' the laird? The laird's deid, laddie, and a gude freend was he to me
and mine, and to your ain sei' forbye, and the hale kintra side will be at the buryin'," said
the housekeeper, shaking her head solemnly. "An' if that were na enow for my poor mistress
there's a waur thing to follow. The laird's fa'en by his ain brither's han's. Mr. Brian shot
him this verra nicht, as they cam' thro' the wud."

"By mistake, Mrs. Shairp, by mistake," murmured William Whale. But Hugo lifted his haggard
face, which looked very pale in the glow of the firelight.

"You can't mean what you are saying," he said, in a hoarse, unnatural voice. "Richard? Richard--dead!
Oh, it must be impossible!"

"True, sir, as gospel," said Mrs. Shairp, touched by the ring of pain that came into the young
man's voice as he spoke. "At half-past eight, by the clock, they brought the laird hame stiff
and stark, cauld as a stane a'ready. The mistress is clean daft wi' sorrow; an' I doot but
Mr. Brian will hae a sair time o't wi' her and the bonny young leddy that's left ahent."

Hugo dropped his face into his hands and did not answer. A shudder ran through his frame more
than once. Mrs. Shairp thought that he was shedding tears, and motioned to William Whale, who
had been standing near the door with a napkin over his arm, to leave the room. William retired
shutting the door softly behind him.

Presently Hugo spoke. "Tell me about it," he said. And Mrs. Shairp was only too happy to pour
into his ears the whole story as she had learned it from the keeper who had come upon the scene
just after the firing of the fatal shot. He listened almost in silence, but did not uncover
his face.

"And his mother?" he asked at length.

Mrs. Shairp could say little about the laird's mother. It was Dr. Muir who had told her the
truth, she said, and the whole house had heard her cry out as if she had been struck. Then
Miss Vivian had gone to her, and had received the news from Mrs. Luttrell's own lips. They
had gone together to look at Richard's face, and then Miss Vivian had fainted, and had been
carried into Mrs. Luttrell's own room, where she was to spend the night. So much Mrs. Shairp
knew, and nothing more.

"And where is Brian?"

"Whaur should he be?" demanded the old woman, with some asperity. "Whaur but in's ain room,
sair cast doun for the ill he has dune."

"It was not his fault," said Hugo, quickly.

"Maybe no," replied Mrs. Shairp, with reserve. "Maybe ay, maybe no; it's just the question--though
I wadna like to think that the lad meant to harm his brother."

"Who does think so?"

"I'm no saying that onybody thinks sae. Mr. Brian was aye a kind-hearted lad an' a bonny, but
never a lucky ane, sae lang as I hae kent him, which will be twenty years gane at Marti'mas.
I cam' at the term."

Hugo scarcely listened to her. He rose up with a strange, scared look upon his face, and walked
unsteadily out of the room, without a word of thanks to Mrs. Shairp for her communications.
Before she had recovered from her astonishment, he was far down the corridor on his way to
the other portion of the house.

In which room had they laid Richard Luttrell? Hugo remembered with a shiver that he had not
asked. He glanced round the hall with a thrill of nervous apprehension. The drawing-room and
dining-room doors stood open; they were in darkness. The little morning-room door was also
slightly ajar, but a dim light seemed to be burning inside. It must be in that room, Hugo decided,
that Richard Luttrell lay. Should he go in? No, he dare not. He could not look upon Richard
Luttrell's dead face. And yet he hesitated, drawn by a curious fascination towards that half-open
door.

While he waited, the door was slowly opened from the inside, and a hand appeared clasping the
edge of the door. A horrible fancy seized Hugo that Richard had risen from his bed and was
coming out into the hall; that Richard's fingers were bent round the edge of the open door.
He longed to fly, but his knees trembled; he could not move. He stood rooted to the spot with
unreasoning terror, until the door opened still more widely, and the person who had been standing
in the room came out. It was no ghostly Richard, sallying forth to upbraid Hugo for his misdeeds.
It was Brian Luttrell who turned his pale face towards the boy as he passed through the hall.

Hugo cowered before him. He sank down on the lower steps of the wide staircase and hid his
face in his hands. Brian, who had been passing him by without remark, seemed suddenly to recollect
himself, and stopped short before his cousin. The lad's shrinking attitude touched him with pity.

"You are right to come back," he said, in a voice which, although abstracted, was strangely
calm. "He told you to leave the house for ever, did he not? But I think that--now--he would
rather that you stayed. He told me that I might do for you what I chose."

The lad's head was bent still lower. He did not say a word.

"So," said Brian, leaning against the great oak bannisters as if he were utterly exhausted
by fatigue, "so--if you stay--you will only be doing--what, perhaps, he wishes now. You need
not be afraid."

"You are the master--now," murmured Hugo from between his fingers.

It was the last speech that Brian would have expected to hear from his cousin's lips. It cut
him to the heart.

"Don't say so!" he cried, in a stifled voice. "Good God! to think that I--I--should profit
by my brother's death!" And Hugo, lifting up his head, saw that the young man's frame was shaken
by shuddering horror from head to foot. "I shall never be master here," he said.

Hugo raised his head with a look of wonder. Brian's feeling was quite incomprehensible to him.

"He was always a good brother to me," Brian went on in a shaken voice, more to himself than
to his cousin, "and a kind friend to you so long as you kept straight and did not disgrace
us by your conduct. You had no right to complain, whatever he might do or say to you. You ought
to mourn for him--you ought to regret him bitterly--bitterly--while I--I----"

"Do not you mourn for him, then?" said Hugo, when the pause that followed Brian's speech had
become insupportable to him.

"If I were only in his place I should be happy," said Brian, passionately. Then he turned upon
Hugo with something like fierceness, but it was the fierceness of a prolonged and half-suppressed
agony of pain. "Do you feel nothing? Do you come into his house, knowing that he is dead, and
have not a word of sorrow for your own behaviour to him while he lived? Come with me and look
at him--look at his face, and remember what he did for you when you were a boy--what he has
done for you during the last eight years."

He seized Hugo by the arm and compelled him to rise; but the lad, with a face blanched by terror,
absolutely refused to move from the spot.

"Not to-night--I can't--I can't!" he said, his dark eyes dilating, and his very lips turning
white with fear. "To-morrow, Brian--not to-night."

But Brian briefly answered, "Come," and tightened his grasp on the lad's arm. And Hugo, though
trembling like an aspen leaf, yielded to that iron pressure, and followed him to the room where
lay all that was mortal of Richard Luttrell.

Once inside the door, Brian dropped his cousin's arm, and seemed to forget his presence. He
slowly removed the covering from the dead face and placed a candle so that the light fell upon
it. Then he walked to the foot of the table, which served the purpose of a bier, and looked
long and earnestly at the marble features, so changed, so passionless and calm in the repose
of death! Terrible, indeed, was the sight to one who had sincerely loved Richard Luttrell--the
strong man, full of lusty health and vigour, desirous of life, fortunate in the possession,
of all that makes life worth living only a few short hours before; now silent, motionless for
ever struck down in the hey-day of youth and strength, and by a brother's hand! Brian had but
spoken the truth when he said that he would gladly change his own fate for that of his brother
Richard. He forgot Hugo and the reason for which he had brought him to that room, he forgot
everything except his own unavailing sorrow, his inextinguishable regret.

Hugo remained where his cousin had left him, leaning against the wall, seemingly incapable
of speech or motion, overcome by a superstitious terror of death, which Brian was as far from
suspecting as of comprehending. In the utter silence of the house they could hear the distant
stable-clock strike eleven. The wind was rising, and blew in fitful gusts, rustling the branches
of the trees, and causing a loose rose-branch to tap carelessly against the window panes. It
sounded like the knock of someone anxious to come in. The candles flickered and guttered in
the draught; the wavering light cast strange shadows over the dead man's face. You might have
thought that his features moved from time to time; that now he frowned at the intruders, and
now he smiled at them--a terrible, ghastly smile.

There was a footstep at the door. It was Mrs. Luttrell who came gliding in with her pale face,
and her long black robes, to take her place at her dead son's side. She had thought that she
must come and assure herself once more that he was really gone from her. She meant to look
at him for a little while, to kiss his cold forehead, and then to go back to Angela and try
to sleep. She took no notice of Brian, nor of Hugo; she drew a chair close to the long table
upon which the still, white form was stretched, seated herself, and looked steadfastly at the
uncovered face. Brian started at the sight of his mother; he glanced at her pleadingly, as
if he would have spoken; but the rigidity of her face repelled him. He hung his head and turned
a little from her, as though to steal away.

Suddenly a terrible voice rang through the room. "Look!" cried the mother, pointing with one
finger to the lifeless form, and raising her eyes for the first time to Brian's face--"look there!"

Brian looked, and flinched from the sight he saw. For a strange thing had happened. Although
not actually unusual, it had never before come within the experience of any of these watchers
of the dead, and thus it suggested to them nothing but the old superstition which in old times
caused a supposed murderer to be brought face to face with the man he was accused of having killed.

A drop of blood was trickling from the nostril of the dead man, and losing itself in the thick,
black moustache upon his upper lip. It was followed by another or two, and then it stayed.

The mother did not speak again. Her hand sank; her eyes were riveted upon Brian's face with
a mute reproach. And Brian, although he knew well enough in his sober senses that the phenomenon
they had just seen was merely caused by the breaking of some small blood-vessel in the brain,
such as often occurs after death, was so far dominated by the impression of the moment that
he walked out of the room, not daring to justify himself in his mother's eyes, not daring to
raise his head. After him crept Hugo whose teeth chattered as though he were suffering from
an ague; but Brian took no more notice of his cousin. He went straight to his own room and
locked himself in, to bear his lonely sorrow as best he might.

No formal inquiry was made into the cause of Richard Luttrell's death. Archie Grant's testimony
completely exonerated Brian, even of carelessness, and the general opinion was that no positive
blame could be attached to anybody for the sad occurrence, and that Mr. Brian Luttrell had
the full sympathy and respect of all who knew him and had known his lamented brother, Richard
Luttrell of Netherglen.

So the matter ended. But idle tongues still wagged, and wise heads were shaken over the circumstances
attending Richard Luttrell's death.

It was partly Mrs. Luttrell's fault. In the first hours of her bereavement she had spoken wildly
and bitterly of the share which Brian had had in causing Richard's death. She had spoken to
Doctor Muir, to Angela, to Mrs. Shairp--a few words only to each, but enough to show in what
direction her thoughts were tending. With the first two her words were sacred, but Mrs. Shairp,
though kindly enough, was not so trustworthy. Before the good woman realised what she was doing,
the whole household, nay, the whole country-side, had learned that Mrs. Luttrell believed her
second son to have fired that fatal shot with the intention of killing, or at least of maiming,
his brother Richard.

The Grants, who had spent the day of the accident at Netherglen, were, of course, eagerly questioned
by inquisitive acquaintances. The girls were ready enough to chatter. They confided to their
intimate friends in mysterious whispers that the brothers had certainly not been on good terms;
they had glowered at one another, and caught each other up and been positively rude to each
other; and they would not go out together; and poor Mr. Luttrell looked so worried, so unlike
himself! Then the brothers were interrogated, but proved less easy to "draw." Archie flew into
a rage at the notion of sinister intentions on Brian's part. Donald looked "dour," and flatly
refused to discuss the subject.

But his refusal was thought vastly suspicious by the many wiseacres who knew the business of
everybody better than their own. And the rumour waxed and spread.

During the days before the funeral Brian scarcely saw anyone. He lived shut up in his own room,
as his mother did in hers, and had interviews only with his lawyer and men who came on business.
It was a sad and melancholy house in those days. Angela was invisible: whether it was she or
Mrs. Luttrell who was ill nobody could exactly say. Hugo wandered about the lonely rooms, or
shut himself up after the fashion of the other members of the family, and looked like a ghost.
After the first two days, Angela's only near relation, her brother Rupert, was present in the
house; but his society seemed not to be very acceptable to Hugo, and, finding that he was of
no use, even to his sister, Mr. Vivian went back to England, and the house seemed quieter than
it had been before.

The funeral took place at last. When it was over, Brian came home, said farewell to the guests,
had a long interview with Mr. Colquhoun, the solicitor, and then seated himself in the study
with the air of a man who was resolved to take up the burden of his duties in a befitting spirit.
His air was melancholy, but calm; he seemed aged by ten years since his brother's death. He
dined with Hugo, Mr. Colquhoun and Dr. Muir, and exerted himself to talk of current topics
with courtesy and interest. But his weary face, his saddened eyes, and the long pauses that
occurred between his intervals of speech, produced a depressing effect upon his guests. Hugo
was no more cheerful than his cousin. He watched Brian furtively from time to time, yet seemed
afraid to meet his eye. His silence and depression were so marked that the doctor afterwards
remarked it to Mr. Colquhoun. "I did not think that Mr. Hugo would take his cousin's death
so much to heart," he said.

"Do you think he does?" asked Mr. Colquhoun, drily. "I don't believe he's got a heart, the
young scamp. I found him myself in the wood, examining the bark of the tree near which the
accident took place, you know, on the morning after Richard's death, as cool as a cucumber.
'I was trying to make out how it happened,' he said to me, when I came up. 'Brian must have
shot very straight.' I told him to go home and mind his own business."

"Do you think what they say about Brian's intentions had any foundation?" asked the doctor.

"Not a bit. Brian's too tender-hearted for a thing of that sort. But the mother's very bitter
about it. She's as hard as flint. It's a bad look out for Brian. He's a ruined man."

"Not from a pecuniary point of view. The property goes to him."

"Yes, but he hasn't the strength to put up with the slights and the scandal which will go with
it. He has the pluck, but not the physique. It's men like him that go out of their minds, or
commit suicide, or die of heart-break--which you doctors call by some other name, of course--when
the world's against them. He'll never stand it. Mark my words--Brian Luttrell won't be to the
fore this time next year."

"Where will he be, Colquhoun? Come, come, Brian's a fellow with brains. He won't do anything rash."

"He'll be in his grave," said the lawyer, gloomily.

"Hell be enjoying himself in the metropolis," said the doctor. "He'll have a fine house and
a pretty wife, and he'll laugh in our faces if we hint at your prophecies, Colquhoun. I should
have had no respect at all for Brian Luttrell if he threw away his own life because he had
accidentally taken that of another man."

"We shall see," said the lawyer.

CHAPTER VI.

MOTHER AND SON.

Early on the following morning Brian received a message from his mother. It was the first communication
that she had vouchsafed to him since the day of her eldest son's death. "Would he come to her
dressing-room at eleven o'clock? She wished to consult him upon special business." Brian sent
word that he would be with her at that hour, and then fell into anxious meditation as he sat
at breakfast, with Hugo at the other end of the table.

"Don't go far away from the house, Hugo," he said at last, as he rose to leave the room. "I
may want you in the course of the morning."

Hugo looked up at him without answering. The lad had been studying a newspaper, with his head
supported by his left hand, while his right played with his coffee cup or the morsels of food
upon his plate. He did not seem to have much appetite. His great, dark eyes looked larger than
usual, and were ringed with purple shadow; his lips were tremulous. "It was wonderful," as
people said, "to see how that poor young fellow felt his cousin's death."

Perhaps Brian thought so too, for he added, very gently--though when did he not speak gently?--

"There is nothing wrong. I only want to make some arrangements with you for your future. Think
a little about it before I speak to you."

And then he went out of the room, and Hugo was left to his meditations, which were not of the
most agreeable character, in spite of Brian's reassuring words.

He pushed his plate and newspaper away from him impatiently; a frown showed itself on his beautiful,
low brows.

"What will he do for me? Anything definite, I wonder? Poor beggar, I'm sorry for him, but my
position has been decidedly improved since that unlucky shot at Richard. Did he want him out
of the way, I wonder? The gloomy look with which he goes makes about one imagine that he did.
What a fool he must be!"

Hugo pushed back his chair and rose: a cynical smile curled his lips for a moment, but it changed
by degrees into an expression of somewhat sullen discontent.

"I wish I could sleep at nights," he said, moving slowly towards the window. "I've never been
so wretchedly wakeful in all my life." Then he gazed out into the garden, but without seeing
much of the scene that he gazed upon, for his thoughts were far away, and his whole soul was
possessed by fear of what Brian would do or say.

At eleven o'clock Brian made his way to his mother's dressing-room, an apartment which, although
bearing that name, was more like an ordinary sitting-room than a dressing-room. He knocked,
and was answered by his mother's voice.

"Come in," she said. "Is it you, Brian?"

"Yes, it is I," Brian said, as he closed the door behind him.

He walked quietly to the hearth-rug, where he stood with one hand resting on the mantelpiece.
It was a convenient attitude, and one which exposed him to no rebuffs. He was too wise to offer
hand or cheek to his mother by way of greeting.

Mrs. Luttrell was sitting on a sofa, with her back to the light. Brian thought that she looked
older and more worn; there were fresh wrinkles upon her forehead, and marks of weeping and
sleeplessness about her eyes, but her figure was erect as ever, as rigidly upright as if her
backbone were made of iron. She was in the deepest possible mourning; even the handkerchief
that she held in her hand was edged with two or three inches of black. Brian looked round for
Angela; he had expected to find her with his mother, but she was not there. The door into Mrs.
Luttrell's bed-room was partly open.

"How is Angela?" he asked.

"Angela is not well. Could you expect her to be well after the terrible trial that has overtaken
her?"

Brian winced. He could make no reply to such a question. Mrs. Luttrell scored a triumph, and
continued in her hard, incisive way:--

"She is probably as well as she can hope to be under the circumstances. Her health has suffered--as
mine also has suffered--under the painful dispensation which has been meted out to us. We do
not repine. Hearts that are broken, that have no hopes, no joys, no pleasures in store for
them in this life, are not eager to exhibit their sufferings. If I speak as I speak now, it
is for the last and only time. It is right that you should hear me once."

"I will hear anything you choose to say," answered Brian, heavily. "But, mother, be merciful.
I have suffered, too."

"We will pass over the amount of your suffering," said Mrs. Luttrell, "if you please. I have
no doubt that it is very great, but I think that it will soon be assuaged. I think that you
will soon begin to remember the many things that you gain by your brother's death--the social
position, the assured income, the estate in Scotland which I brought to your father, as well
as his own house of Netherglen--all the things for which men are only too ready to sell their
souls."

"All these things are nothing to me," sighed Brian.

"They are a great deal in the world's eyes. You will soon find out how differently it receives
you now from the way it received you a year--a month--a week--ago. You are a rich man. I wish
you joy of your wealth. Everything goes to you except Netherglen itself; that is left in my hands."

"Mother, are you mad?" said her son, passionately. "Why do you talk to me in this way? I swear
to you that I would give every hope and every joy that I ever possessed--I would give my life--to
have Richard back again! Do you think I ever wanted to be rich through his death?"

"I do not know what you wanted," said Mrs. Luttrell, sternly. "I have no means of guessing."

"Is this what you wished me to say?" said Brian, whose voice was hoarse and changed. "I said
that I would listen--but, you might spare me these taunts, at least."

"I do not taunt you. I wish only to draw attention to the difference between your position
and my own. Richard's death brings wealth, ease, comfort to you; to me nothing but desolation.
I am willing to allow the house of which I have been the mistress for so many years, of which
I am legally the mistress still, to pass into your hands. I have lost my home as well as my
sons. I am desolate."

"Your sons! You have not lost both your sons, mother," pleaded Brian, with a note of bitter
pain in his voice, as he came closer to her and tried in vain to take her icy hand. "Why do
you think that you are no longer mistress of this house? You are as much mistress as you were
in my father's time--in Richard's time. Why should there be a difference now?"

"There is this difference," said Mrs. Luttrell, coldly, "that I do not care to live in any
house with you. It would be painful to me; that is all. If you desire to stay, I will go."

Brian staggered back as if she had struck him in the face.

"Do you mean to cast me off?" he almost whispered, for he could not find strength to speak
aloud. "Am I not your son, too?"

"You fill the place that a son should occupy," said Mrs. Luttrell, letting her hand rise and
fall upon her lap, and looking away from Brian. "I can say no more. My son--my own son--the
son that I loved"--(she paused, and seemed to recollect herself before she continued in a lower
voice)--"the son that I loved--is dead."

There was a silence. Brian seated himself and bowed his head upon his hands. "God help me!"
she heard him mutter. But she did not relent.

Presently he looked up and fixed his haggard eyes upon her.

"Mother," he said, in hoarse and unnatural tones, "you have had your say; now let me have mine.
I know too well what you believe. You think, because of a slight dispute which arose between
us on that day, that I had some grudge against my brother. I solemnly declare to you that that
is not true. Richard and I had differed; but we met--in the wood"--(he drew his breath painfully)--"a
few minutes only before that terrible mistake of mine; and we were friends again. Mother, do
you know me so ill as to think that I could ever have lifted my hand against Richard, who was
always a friend to me, always far kinder than I deserved? It was a mistake--a mistake that
I'll never, never forgive myself for, and that you, perhaps, never will forgive--but, at any
rate, do me the justice to believe that it was a mistake, and not--not--that I was Richard's
murderer!"

Mrs. Luttrell sat silent, motionless, her white hands crossed before her on the crape of her
black gown. Brian threw himself impetuously on his knees before her and looked up into her face.

"Mother, mother!" he said, "do you not believe me?"

It seemed to him a long time--it was, in reality, not more than ten or twelve seconds--before
Mrs. Luttrell answered his question. "Do you not believe me?" he had said. And she answered--

"No."

The shock of finding his passionate appeal so utterly disregarded restored to Brian the composure
which had failed him before. He rose to his feet, pale, stricken, indeed, but calm. For a moment
or two he averted his face from the woman who judged him so harshly, so pitilessly; but when
he turned to her again, he had gained a certain pride of bearing which compelled her unwilling
respect.

"If that is your final answer," he said, "I can say nothing more. Perhaps the day will come
when you will understand me better. In the meantime, I shall be glad to hear whether you have
any plans which I can assist you in carrying out."

"None in which I require your assistance," said Mrs. Luttrell, stonily. "I have my jointure;
I can live upon that. I will leave Netherglen to you. I will take a cottage for myself--and
Angela."

"And Angela?"

"Angela remains with me. You may remember that she has no home, except with friends who are
not always as kind to her as they might be. Her brother is not a wealthy man, and has no house
of his own. Under these circumstances, and considering what she has lost, it would be mere
justice if I offered her a home. Henceforth she is my daughter."

"You have asked her to stay, and she has consented?"

"I have."

"And you thought--you think--of taking a home for yourselves?"

"Yes."

"I suppose you do not object," said Brian, slowly, "to the gossip to which such a step on your
part is sure to give rise?"

"I have not considered the matter. Gossip will not touch me."

"No." Brian would not for worlds have said that the step she contemplated taking would be disastrous
for him. Yet for one moment, he could not banish the consciousness that all the world would
now have good reason to believe that his mother held him guilty of his brother's death. He
did not know that the world suspected him already.

It was with an unmoved front that he presently continued.

"I, myself, had a proposition to make which would perhaps render it needless for you to leave
Netherglen, which, as you say, is legally your own. You may not have considered that I am hardly
likely to have much love for the place after what has occurred in it. You know that neither
you nor I can sell any portion of the property--even you would not care to let it, I suppose,
to strangers for the present. I think of going abroad--probably probably for some years. I
have always wanted to travel. The house on the Strathleckie side of the property can be let;
and as for Netherglen, it would be an advantage for the place if you made it your home for
as many months in the year as you chose. I don't see why you should not do so. I shall not
return to this neighbourhood."

"It does not seem to occur to you," said Mrs. Luttrell, in measured tones, "that Angela and
I may also have an objection to residing in a place which will henceforth have so many painful
memories attached to it."

"If that is the case," said Brian, after a little pause, "there is no more to be said."

"I will ask Angela," said Mrs. Luttrell, stretching out her hand to a little handbell which
stood upon the table at her side.

Brian started. "Then I will come to you again," he said, moving hastily to the door. "I will
see you after lunch."

"Pray do not go," said his mother, giving two very decisive strokes of the bell by means of
a pressure of her firm, white fingers. "Let us settle the matter while we are about it. There
will be no need of a second interview."

"But Angela will not want to see me."

"Angela----Ask Miss Vivian to come to me at once if she can" (to the maid who appeared at the
door)--"Angela expressed a wish to see you this morning."

Brian stood erect by the mantelpiece, biting his lips under his soft, brown moustache, and
very much disposed to take the matter into his own hands, and walk straight out of the room.
But some time or other Angela must be faced; perhaps as well now as at any other time. He waited,
therefore, in silence, until the door opened and Angela appeared.

"Brian!" said the soft voice, in as kind and sisterly a tone as he had ever heard from her.

"Brian!"

She was close to him, but he dared not look up until she took his unresisting hand in hers
and held it tenderly. Then he raised his head a very little and looked at her.

She had always been pale, but now she was snow-white, and the extreme delicacy and even fragility
of her appearance were thrown into strong relief by the dead black of her mourning gown. Her
eyes were full of tears, and her lips were quivering; but Brian knew in a moment, by instinct,
that she at least believed in the innocence of his heart, although his hand had taken his brother's
life. He stooped down and kissed the hand that held his own, so humbly, so sorrowfully, that
Angela's heart yearned over him. She understood him, and she had room, even in her great grief,
to be sorry for him too. And when he withdrew his hand and turned away from her with one deep
sob that he did not know how to repress, she tried to comfort him.

"Dear Brian," she said, "I know--I understand. Poor fellow! it is very hard for you. It is
hard for us all; but I think it is hardest of all for you."

"I would have given my life for his, Angela," said Brian, in a smothered voice.

"I know you would. I know you loved him," said Angela, the tears streaming now down her pale
cheeks. "There is only one thing for us to say, Brian--It was God's will that he should go."

"How you must hate the sight of me," groaned Brian. He had almost forgotten the presence of
Mrs. Luttrell, whose hard, watchful eyes were taking notice of every detail of the scene.

"I will not trouble you long; I am going to leave Scotland; I will go far away; you shall never
see my face again."

"But I should be sorry for that," said Angela's soft, caressing voice, into which a tremor
stole from time to time that made it doubly sweet. "I shall want to see you again. Promise
me that you will come back, Brian--some day."

"Some day?" he repeated, mournfully. "Well, some day, Angela, when you can look on me without
so much pain as you must needs feel now, any day when you have need of me. But, as I am going
so very soon, will you tell me yourself whether Netherglen is a place that you hold in utter
abhorrence now? Would it hurt you to make Netherglen your home? Could you and my mother find
happiness--or at least peace--if you lived here together? or would it be too great a trial
for you to bear?"

"It rests with you to decide, Angela," said Mrs. Luttrell from her sofa. "I have no choice;
it signifies little to me whether I go or stay. If it would pain you to live at Netherglen,
say so; and we will choose another home."

"Pain me?" said Angela. "To stay here--in Richard's home?"

"Would you dislike it?" asked Mrs. Luttrell.

The girl came to her side, and put her arms round the mother's neck. Mrs. Luttrell's face softened
curiously as she did so; she laid one of her hands upon Angela's shining hair with a caressing
movement.

"Dislike it? It would be my only happiness," said Angela. She stopped, and then went on with
soft vehemence--"To think that I was in his house, that I looked on the things that he used
to see every day, that I could sometimes do the thing that he would have liked to see me doing--it
is all I could wish for, all that life could give me now! Yes, yes, let us stay."

"It's perhaps not so good for you as one might wish," said Mrs. Luttrell, regarding her tenderly.
"You had perhaps better have a change for a time; there is no reason why you should live for
ever in the past, like an old woman, Angela. The day will come when you may wish to make new
ties for yourself--new interests----"

Angela's whisper reached her ear alone.

Mrs. Luttrell clasped her in her arms and kissed her forehead. Then after a little pause she
said to Brian--

"We will stay."

Brian bowed his head.

"I will make all necessary arrangements with Mr. Colquhoun, and send him to you," he said.
"I think there is nothing else about which we have to speak?"

"Nothing," said Mrs. Luttrell, steadily.

"Except Hugo. As I am going away from home for so long I think it would be better if I settled
a certain sum in the Funds upon him, so that he might have a moderate income as well as his
pay. Does that meet with your approval?"

"My approval matters very little, but you can do as you choose with your own money. I suppose
you wish that this house should be kept open for him?"

"That is as you please. He would be better for a home. May I ask what Angela thinks?"

"Oh, yes," said Angela, lifting her face slowly from Mrs. Luttrell's shoulder. "He must not
feel that he has lost a home, must he, mother?" She pronounced the title which Mrs. Luttrell
had begged her to bestow, still with a certain diffidence and hesitancy; but Mrs. Luttrell's
brow smoothed when she heard it.

"We will do what we can for him," she said.

"He has not been very steady of late," Brian went on slowly, wondering whether he was right
to conceal Hugo's misdeeds and evil tendencies. "I hope he will improve; you will have patience
with him if he is not very wise. And now, will you let me say good-bye to you? I shall leave
Netherglen to-morrow."

"To-morrow?" said Angela, wonderingly. "Why should you go so soon?"

"It is better so," Brian answered.

"But we shall know where you are. You will write?"

His eyes sought his mother's face. She would not look at him. He spoke in an unnaturally quiet
voice, "I do not know."

"Mother, will you not tell him to write to you?" said Angela.

The mother sat silent, unresponsive. It was plain that she cared for no letter from this son
of hers.

"I will leave my address with Mr. Colquhoun, Angela," said Brian, forcing a slight, sad smile.
"If there is business for me to transact, he will be able to let me know. I shall hear from
him how you all are, from time to time."

"Will you not write to me, then?" said Angela.

Brian darted an inquiring glance at her. Oh, what divine pity, what sublime forgetfulness of
self, gleamed out of those tender, tear-reddened eyes!

"Will you let me?" he said, almost timidly.

"I should like you to write. I shall look for your letters, Brian. Don't forget that I shall
be anxious for news of you."

Almost without knowing what he did, he sank down on his knees before her, and touched her hand
reverently with his lips. She bent forward and kissed his forehead as a sister might have done.

"God bless you, Angela!" he said. He could not utter another word.

"Mother," said the girl, taking in hers the passive hand of the woman, who had sat with face
averted--perhaps so that she should not meet the eyes of the man whom she could not forgive--"mother,
speak to him; say good-bye to him before he goes."

The mother's hand trembled and tried to withdraw itself, but Angela would not let it go.

"One kind word to him, mother," she said. "See, he is kneeling before you. Only look at him
and you will see how he has suffered! Don't let him go away from you without one word."

She guided Mrs. Luttrell's hand to Brian's head; and there for a moment it rested heavily.
Then she spoke.

"If I have been unjust, may God forgive me!" she said.

Then she withdrew her hand and rose from her seat. She did not even look behind her as she
walked to the bed-room door, pushed it open, entered, and closed it, and turned the key in
the old-fashioned lock. She had said all that she meant to say: no power, human or divine,
should wrest another word from her just then. But in her heart she was crying over and over
again the words that had been upon her lips a hundred times to say.

"He is no son of mine--no son of mine--this man by whose hand Richard Luttrell fell. I am childless.
Both my sons are dead."

CHAPTER VII.

A FAREWELL.

There was a little, sunny, green walk opposite the dining-room windows, edged on either side
by masses of white and crimson phlox and a row of sunflowers, where the gentlemen of the house
were in the habit of taking their morning stroll and smoking their first cigar. It was here
that Hugo was slowly pacing up and down when Brian Luttrell came out of the house in search of him.

Hugo gave him a searching glance as he approached, and was not reassured. Brian's face wore
a curiously restrained expression, which gave it a look of sternness. Hugo's heart beat fast;
he threw away the end of his cigar, and advanced to meet his cousin with an air of unconcern
which was evidently assumed for the occasion. It passed unremarked, however. Brian was in no
mood for considering Hugo's expression of countenance.

They took two or three turns up and down the garden walk without uttering a word. Brian was
absorbed in thought, and Hugo had his own reasons for being afraid to open his mouth. It was
Brian who spoke at last.

"Come away from the house," he said. "I want to speak to you, and we can't talk easily underneath
all these windows. We'll go down to the loch."

"Not to the loch," said Hugo, hastily.

Brian considered a moment. "You are right," he said, in a low tone, "we won't go there. Come
this way." For the moment he had forgotten that painful scene at the boat-house, which no doubt
made Hugo shrink sensitively from the sight of the place. He was sorry that he had suggested it.

The day was calm and mild, but not brilliant. The leaves of the trees had taken on an additional
tinge of autumnal yellow and red since Brian last looked at them with an observant eye. For
the past week he had thought of nothing but of the intolerable grief and pain that had come
upon him. But now the peace and quiet of the day stole upon him unawares; there was a restfulness
in the sight of the steadfast hills, of the waving trees--a sense of tranquility even in the
fall of the yellowing leaves and the flight of the migrating song-birds overhead. His eye grew
calmer, his brow more smooth, as he walked silently onward; he drew a long breath, almost like
one of relief; then he stopped short, and leaned against the trunk of a tall fir tree, looking
absently before him, as though he had forgotten the reason for his proposed interview with
his cousin. Hugo grew impatient. They had left the garden, and were walking down a grassy little-trodden
lane between two tracks of wooded ground; it led to the tiny hamlet at the head of the loch,
and thence to the high road. Hugo wondered whether the conversation were to be held upon the
public highway or in the lane. If it had to do with his own private affairs, he felt that he
would prefer the lane. But he dared not precipitate matters by speaking.

Brian recollected his purpose at last, however. After a short interval of silence he turned
his eyes upon Hugo, who was standing near him, and said, gently--

"Sit down, won't you?--then we can talk."

There was a fallen log on the ground. Hugo took his seat on it meekly enough, but continued
his former occupation of digging up, with the point of a stick that he was carrying, the roots
of all the plants within his reach. He was so much absorbed by this pursuit that he seemed
hardly to attend to the next words that Brian spoke.

"I ought, perhaps, to have had a talk with you before," he said. "Matters have been in a very
unsettled state, as you well know. But there are one or two points that ought to be settled
without delay."

Hugo ceased his work of destruction; and apparently disposed himself to listen.

"First, your own affairs. You have hitherto had an allowance, I believe--how much?"

"Two hundred," said Hugo, sulkily, "since I joined."

"And your pay. And you could not make that sufficient?"

Hugo's face flushed, he did not answer. He sat still, looking sullenly at the ground. Brian
waited for a little while, and then went on.

"I don't want to preach, old fellow, but you know I can't help thinking that, by a little decent
care and forethought, you ought to have made that do. Still, it's no good my saying so, is
it? What is done cannot be undone--would God it could!"

He stopped short again: his voice had grown hoarse. Hugo, with the dusky red still tingeing
his delicate, dark face, hung his head and made no reply.

"One can but try to do better for the future," said Brian, somewhat unsteadily, after that
moment's pause. "Hugo, dear boy, will you promise that, at least?"

He put his hand on his cousin's shoulder. Hugo tried to shrink away, then, finding this impossible,
averted his face and partly hid it with his hands.

"It's no good making vague promises," he said by-and-bye. "What do you mean? If you want me
to promise to live on my pay or anything of that sort----"

"Nothing of that sort," Brian interrupted him. "Only, that you will act honourably and straightforwardly--that
you will not touch what is not your own----"

Hugo shook off the kindly hand and started up with something like an oath upon his lips. "Why
are you always talking about that affair! I thought it was past and done with," he said, turning
his back upon his cousin, and switching the grass savagely with his cane.

"Always talking about it! Be reasonable, Hugo."

"It was only because I was at my wits' end for money," said the lad, irritably. "And that came
in my way, and--I had never taken any before----"

"And never will again," said Brian. "That's what I want to hear you say."

But Hugo would say nothing. He stood, the impersonation of silent obstinacy, digging the end
of his stick into the earth, or striking at the blue bells and the brambles within reach, resolved
to utter no word which Brian could twist into any sort of promise for the future. He knew that
his silence might injure his prospects, by lowering him in Brian's estimation--Brian being
now the arbiter of his fate--but for all that he could not bring himself to make submission
or to profess penitence. Something made the words stick in his throat; no power on earth would
at that moment have forced him to speak.

"Well," said Brian at last, in a tone which showed deep disappointment, "I am sorry that you
won't go so far, Hugo. I hope you will do well, however, without professions. Still, I should
have been better satisfied to have your word for it--before I left Netherglen."

"Where are you going?" said Hugo, suddenly facing him.

"I don't quite know."

"To London?"

"No, Abroad."

"Abroad?" repeated Hugo, with a wondering accent. "Why should you go abroad?"

"That's my own business."

"But--but--" said the lad, flushing and paling, and stammering with eagerness, "I thought that
you would stay here, and that Netherglen and everything would belong to you, and--and----"

"And that I should shoot, and fish, and ride, and disport myself gaily over my brother's inheritance--that
my own hand deprived him of!" cried Brian, with angry bitterness. "It is so likely! Is it you
who have no feeling, or do you fancy that I have none?"

"But the place is yours," faltered Hugo, with a guilty look, "Strathleckie is yours, if Netherglen
is not."

"Mine! Yes, it is mine after a fashion," said Brian, while a hot, red flush crept up to his
forehead, and his brows contracted painfully over his sad, dark eyes. "It is mine by law; mine
by my father's will; and if it had come into my hands by any other way--if my brother had not
died through my own carelessness--I suppose that I might have learnt to enjoy it like any other
man. But as it is--I wish that every acre of it were at the bottom of the loch, and I there,
too, for the matter of that! I have made up my mind that I will not benefit by Richard's death.
Others may have the use of his wealth, but I am the last that should touch it. I will have
the two or three hundred a year that he used to give me, and I will have nothing more."

Hugo's face had grown pale. He looked more dismayed by this utterance than by anything that
Brian as yet had said. He opened his lips once or twice before he could find his voice, and
it was in curiously rough and broken tones that he at length asked a question.

"Is this because of what people say about--about you--and--Richard?"

He seemed to find it difficult to pronounce the dead man's name. Brian lifted up his face.

"What do people say about me and Richard, then?" he said.

Hugo retreated a little.

"If you don't know," he said, looking down miserably, "I can't tell you."

Brian's eyes blazed with sudden wrath.

"You have said too little or too much," he said. "I must know the rest. What is it that people
say?"

"Don't you know?"

"No, I do not know. Out with it."

"I can't tell you," said Hugo, biting his lips. "Don't ask me, ask someone else. Anyone."

"Is 'anyone' sure to know? I will hear it from you, and from no one else. What do people say?"

Hugo looked up at him and then down again. The struggle that was waging between the powers
of good and evil in his soul had its effect even on his outer man. His very lips turned white
as he considered what he should say.

Brian noted this change of colour, and was moved by it, thinking that he understood Hugo's
reluctance to give him pain. He subdued his own impatience, and spoke in a lower, quieter voice.

"Don't take it to heart, Hugo, whatever it may be. It cannot be worse than the thing I have
heard already--from my mother. I don't suppose I shall mind it much. They say, perhaps, that
I--that I shot my brother"--(in spite of himself, Brian's voice trembled with passionate indignation)--"that
I killed Richard purposely--knowing what I did--in order to possess myself of this miserable
estate of his--is that what they say?"

Hugo answered by a bare little monosyllable--

"Yes."

"And who says this?"

"Everyone. The whole country side."

"Then--if this is believed so generally--why have no steps been taken to prove my guilt? Good
God, my guilt! Why should I not be prosecuted at once for murder?"

"There would be no evidence, they say." Hugo murmured, uneasily. "It is simply a matter of
assertion; you say you shot at a bird, not seeing him, and they say that you must have known
that he was there. That is all."

"A matter of assertion! Well, they are right so far. If they don't believe my word, there is
no more to be said," replied Brian, sadly, his excitement suddenly forsaking him. "Only I never
thought that my word would even be asked for on such a subject by people who had known me all
my life. You don't doubt me, do you, Hugo?"

"How could I?" said Hugo, in a voice so low and shaken that Brian could scarcely hear the words.
But he felt instinctively that the lad's trust in him, on that one point, at least, had not
wavered, and with a warm thrill of affection and gratitude he held out his hand. It gave him
a rude shock to see that Hugo drew back and would not take it.

"What! you don't trust me after all?" he said, quickly.

"I--I do," cried Hugo, "but--what does it matter what I think? I'm not fit to take your hand--I
cannot--I cannot----"

His emotion was so genuine that Brian felt some surprise, and also some compunction for having
distrusted him before.

"Dear Hugo," he said, gently, "I shall know you better now. We have always been friends; don't
forget that we are friends still, although I may be on the other side of the world. I'm going
to try and lose myself in some out-of-the-way place, and live where nobody will ever know my
story, but I shall be rather glad to think sometimes that, at any rate, you understand what
I felt about poor Richard--that you never once misjudged me--I won't forget it, Hugo, I assure
you."

He pressed Hugo's still reluctant hand, and then made him sit down beside him upon the fallen tree.

"We must talk business now," he said, more cheerfully--though it was a sad kind of cheerfulness
after all--"for we have not much time left. I hear the luncheon-bell already. Shall we finish
our talk first? You don't care for luncheon? No more do I. Where had we got to? Only to the
initial step--that I was going abroad. I have several other things to explain to you."

His eyes looked out into the distance as he spoke; his voice lost its forced cheerfulness,
and became immeasurably grave and sad. Hugo listened with hidden face. He did not care to turn
his gloomy brows and anxiously-twitching lips towards the speaker.

"I shall never come back to Scotland," said Brian, slowly. "To England I may come some day,
but it will be after many years. My mother has the management of Strathleckie; as well as of
Netherglen, which belongs to her. She will live here, and use the house and dispose of the
revenues as she pleases. Angela remains with her."

"But if you marry----"

"I shall never marry. My life is spoilt--ruined. I could not ask any woman to share it with
me. I shall be a wanderer on the face of the earth--like Cain."

"No, no!" cried Hugo, passionately. "Not like Cain. There is no curse on you----"

"Not even my mother's curse? I am not sure," said Brian. "I shall be a wanderer, at any rate;
so much is certain: living on my three hundred a year, very comfortably, no doubt; until this
life is over, and I come out clear on the other side----"

Hugo lifted his face. "You don't mean," he whispered, with a look of terrified suspicion, "that
you would ever lay hands on yourself, and shorten your life in that way?"

"Why, no. What makes you think that I should choose such a course? I hope I am not a coward,"
said Brian, simply. "No, I shall live out my days somewhere--somehow; but there is no harm
in wishing that they were over."

There was a pause. The dreamy expression of Brian's eyes seemed to betoken that his thoughts
were far away. Hugo moved his stick nervously through the grass at his feet. He could not look up.

"What else have you to tell me?" he said at last.

"Do you know the way in which Strathleckie was settled?" said Brian, quietly, coming down to
earth from some high vision of other worlds and other lives than ours. "Do you know that my
grandfather made a curious will about it?"

"No," said Hugo. It was false, for he knew the terms of the will quite well; but he thought
it more becoming to profess ignorance.

"This place belonged to my mother's father. It was left to her children and their direct heirs;
failing heirs, it reverts to a member of her family, a man of the name of Gordon Murray. We
have no power to alienate any portion of it. The rents are ours, the house and lands are ours,
for our lives only. If we die, you see, without children, the property goes to these Murrays."

"Cousins of yours, are they?"

"Second cousins. I have never troubled myself about the exact degree of relationship until
within the last day or two. I find that Gordon Murray would be my second cousin once removed,
and that his child or children--he has more than one, I believe--would, therefore, be my third
cousins. A little while ago I should have thought it highly improbable that any of the Gordon
Murrays would ever come into possession of Strathleckie, but it is not at all improbable now."

"Where do these Murrays live?"

"In London, I think. I am not sure. I have asked Colquhoun to find out all that he can about
them. If there is a young fellow in the family, it might be well to let him know his prospects
and invite him down. I could settle an income on him if he were poor. Then the estate would
benefit somebody."

"You can do as you like with the income," said Hugo.

The words escaped him half against his will. He stole a glance at Brian when they were uttered,
as if anxious to ascertain whether or no his cousin had divined his own grudging, envious thoughts.
He heartily wished that Richard's money had come to him. In Brian's place it would never have
crossed his mind that he should throw away the good fortune that had fallen to his lot. If
only he were in this lucky young Murray's shoes!

Brian did not guess the thoughts that passed through Hugo's mind, but that murmured speech
reminded him of another point which he wished to make quite clear.

"Yes, I can do what I like with the income," he said, "and also with a sum of money that my
father invested many years ago which nobody has touched at present. There are twelve thousand
pounds in the Funds, part of which I propose to settle upon you so as to make you more independent
of my help in the future."

Hugo stammered out something a little incoherent; it was a proposition which took him completely
by surprise. Brian continued quietly--

"Of course, I might continue the allowance that you have had hitherto, but then, in the event
of my death, it would cease, for I cannot leave it to you by will. I have thought that it would
be better, therefore, to transfer to you six thousand pounds, Hugo, over which you have complete
control. All I ask is that you won't squander it. Colquhoun says that he can safely get you
five per cent for it. I would put it in his hands, if I were you. It will then bring you in
three hundred a year."

"Brian, you are too good to me," said Hugo. There were tears in his eyes; his voice trembled
and his cheek flushed as he spoke "You don't know----"

Then he stopped and covered his face with his hands. A very unwonted feeling of shame and regret
overpowered him; it was as much as he could do to refrain from crying like a child. "I can't
thank you," he said, with a sob which made Brian smile a little, and lay his hand affectionately
on his shoulder.

"Don't thank me, dear boy," he said. "It's very little to do for you; but it will perhaps help
to keep you out of difficulties. And if you are in any trouble, go to Colquhoun. I will tell
him how far he may go on helping you, and you can trust him. He shall not even tell me what
you say to him, if you don't wish me to know. But, for Heaven's sake, Hugo, try to keep straight,
and bring no disgrace upon our name. I have done what I could for you--I may do more, if necessary;
but there are circumstances in which I should not be able to help you at all, and you know
what those are."

He thought that he understood Hugo's impulsive disposition, but even he was not prepared for
the burst of passionate remorse and affection with which the boy threw himself almost at his
feet, kissing his hands and sobbing out promises of amendment with all the abandonment of his
Southern nature. Brian was inclined to be displeased with this want of self-control; he spoke
sharply at last and told him to command himself. But some time elapsed before Hugo regained
his calmness. And when Brian returned to the house, he could not induce his cousin to return
with him; the young fellow wandered away through the woods with drooping head and dejected
mien, and was seen no more till late at night.

He came back to the house too late to say good-bye to Brian, who had left a few lines of farewell
for him. His absence, perhaps, added a pang to the keen pain with which Brian left his home;
but if so, no trace of it was discernible in the kindly words which he had addressed to his
cousin. He saw neither his mother nor Angela before he went; indeed, he avoided any formal
parting from the household in general, and let it be thought that he was likely to return in
a short time. But as he took from his groom the reins of the dog-cart in which he was about
to drive down to the station, he looked round him sadly and lingeringly, with a firm conviction
at his heart that never again would his eyes rest upon the shining loch, the purple hills,
and the ivy-grown, grey walls of Netherglen. Never again. He had said his last farewell. He
had no home now!

CHAPTER VIII.

IN GOWER-STREET.

Angela Vivian's brother Rupert was, perhaps, not unlike her in feature and colouring, but there
was a curious dissimilarity of expression between the two. Angela's dark, grey eyes had a sweetness
in which Rupert's were lacking; the straight, regular features, which with her were brightened
by a tender play of emotion, were, with him, cold and grave. The mouth was a fastidious one;
the bearing of the man, though full of distinction, could sometimes be almost repellantly haughty.
The merest sketch of him would not be complete unless we added that his dress was faultless,
and that he was apt to bestow a somewhat finical care upon the minor details of his toilet.

It was in October, when "everybody" was still supposed to be out of town, that Rupert Vivian
walked composedly down Gower-street meditating on the news which the latest post had brought
him. In sheer absence of mind he almost passed the house at which he had been intending to
call, and he stood for a minute or two upon the steps, as if not quite sure whether or no he
would enter. Finally, however, he knocked at the door and rang the bell, then prepared himself,
with a resigned air, to wait until it should be opened. He had never yet found that a first
summons gained him admittance to that house.

After waiting five minutes and knocking twice, a slatternly maid appeared and asked him to
walk upstairs. Rupert followed her leisurely; he knew very well what sort of reception to expect,
and was not surprised when she merely opened the drawing-room door, and left him to announce
himself. "No ceremony" was the rule in the Herons' household, and very objectionable Rupert
Vivian sometimes found it.

The day had been foggy and dark, and a bright fire threw a cheerful light over the scene which
presented itself to Rupert's eyes. A pleasant clinking of spoons and cups and saucers met his
ear. He stood at the door for a moment unobserved, listening and looking on. He was a privileged
person in that house, and considered himself quite at liberty to look and listen if he chose.

The room had an air of comfort verging upon luxury, but if was untidy to a degree which Rupert
thought disgraceful. For the rich hues of the curtains, the artistic character of the Japanese
screens and Oriental embroideries, the exquisite landscape-paintings on the walls, were compatible
with grave deficiencies in the list of more ordinary articles of furniture. There were two
or three picturesque, high-backed chairs, made of rosewood (black with age) and embossed leather,
but the rest of the seats consisted of divans, improvised by ingenious fingers out of packing-boxes
and cushions covered with Morris chintzes; or brown Windsor chairs, evidently imported straight
from the kitchen. A battered old writing-desk had an incongruous look when placed next to a
costly buhl clock on a table inlaid indeed with mother-of-pearl, but wanting in one leg; and
so no valuable blue china was apt to pass unobserved upon the mantelpiece because it was generally
found in company with a child's mug, a plate of crusts, or a painting-rag. A grand piano stood
open, and was strewn with sheets of music; two sketching portfolios conspicuously adorned the
hearth-rug. A tea-table was drawn up near the fire, and the firelight was reflected pleasantly
in the gleaming silver and porcelain of the tea-service.

The human elements of the scene were very diverse. Mrs. Heron, a languid-looking, fair-haired
woman, lay at full length on one of the divans. Her step-daughter, Kitty, sat at the tea-table,
and Kitty's elder brother, Percival, a tall, broad-shouldered young man of eight-and-twenty,
was leaning against the mantelpiece. A girl, who looked about twenty-one years of age was sitting
in the deepest shadow of the room. The firelight played upon her hands, which lay quietly folded
before her in her lap, but it did not touch her face. Two or three children were playing about
the floor with their toys and a white fox-terrier. The young man was talking very fast, two
at least of the ladies were laughing, the children were squabbling and shouting. It was a Babel.
As Rupert stood at the door he caught the sense of Percival's last rapid sentences.

"No right nor wrong in the case. You must allow me to say that you take an exclusively feminine
view of the matter, which, of course, is narrow. I have as much right to sell my brains to
the highest bidder as my friend Vivian has to sell his pictures when he gets the chance--which
isn't often."

"There is nothing like the candour of an impartial friend," said Rupert, good-humouredly, as
he advanced into the room. "Allow me to tell you that I sold my last painting this morning.
How do you do, Mrs. Heron?"

His appearance produced a lull in the storm. Percival ceased to talk and looked slightly--very
slightly--disconcerted. Mrs. Heron half rose; Kitty made a raid upon the children's toys, and
carried some of them to the other end of the room, whither the tribe followed her, lamenting.
Then, Percival laughed aloud.

"Where did you come from?" he said, in a round, mellow, genial voice, which was singularly
pleasant to the ear. "'Listeners hear no good of themselves.' You've proved the proverb."

"Not for the first time when you are the speaker. I have found that out. How are you, Kitty?
Good evening, Miss Murray."

"How good of you to come to see us, Mr. Vivian!" said Mrs. Heron, in a low, sweetly-modulated
voice, as she held out one long, white hand to her visitor. She re-arranged her draperies a
little, and lay back gracefully when she had spoken. Rupert had never seen her do anything
but lie on sofas in graceful attitudes since he first made her acquaintance. It was her métier.
Nobody expected anything else from her except vague, theoretic talk, which she called philosophy.
She had been Kitty's governess in days gone by. Mr. Heron, an artist of some repute, married
her when he had been a widower for twelve months only. Since that time she had become the mother
of three handsome, but decidedly noisy, children, and had lapsed by degrees into the life of
a useless, fine lady, to whom household cares and the duties of a mother were mere drudgery,
and were left to fall as much as possible on the shoulders of other people. Nevertheless, Mrs.
Heron's selfishness was of a gentle and even loveable type. She was seldom out of humour, rarely
worried or fretful; she was only persistently idle, and determined to consider herself in feeble
health.

Vivian's acquaintance with the Herons dated from his first arrival in London, six years ago,
when he boarded with them for a few months. The disorder of the household had proved too great
a trial to his fastidious tastes to be borne for a longer space of time. He had, however, formed
a firm friendship with the whole family, especially with Percival; and for the last three or
four years the two young men had occupied rooms in the same house and virtually lived together.
To anyone who knew the characters of the friends, their friendship was somewhat remarkable.
Vivian's fault was an excess of polish and refinement; he attached unusual value to matters
of mere taste and culture. Possibly this was the link which really attached him to Percival
Heron, who was a man of considerable intellectual power, although possessed sometimes by a
sort of irrepressible brusqueness and roughness of manner, with which he could make himself
exceedingly disagreeable even to his friends. Percival was taller, stronger, broader about
the shoulders, deeper in the chest, than Vivian--in fact, a handsomer man in all respects.
Well-cut features, pale, but healthy-looking; brilliant, restless, dark eyes; thick brown hair
and moustache; a well-knit, vigorous frame, which gave no sign as yet of the stoutness to which
it inclined in later years, these were points that made his appearance undeniably striking
and attractive. A physiognomist might, however, have found something to blame as well as to
praise in his features. There was an ominous upright line between the dark brows, which surely
told of a variable temper; the curl of the laughing lips, and the fall of the heavy moustache
only half concealed a curious over-sensitiveness in the lines of the too mobile mouth. It was
not the face of a great thinker nor of a great saint, but of a humorous, quick-witted, impatient
man, of wide intelligence, and very irritable nervous organisation.

The air of genial hilarity which he could sometimes wear was doubtless attractive to a man
of Vivian's reserved temperament. Percival's features beamed with good humour--he laughed with
his whole heart when anything amused him. Vivian used to look at him in wonder sometimes, and
think that Percival was more like a great overgrown boy than a man of eight-and-twenty. On
the other hand, Percival said that Vivian was a prig.

Kitty, sitting at the tea-table, did not think so. She loved her brother very much, but she
considered Mr. Vivian a hero, a demigod, something a little lower, perhaps, than the angels,
but not very much. Kitty was only sixteen, which accounts, possibly, for her delusion on this
subject. She was slim, and round, and white, with none of the usual awkwardness of her age
about her. She had a well-set, graceful little head, and small, piquant features; her complexion
had not much colour, but her pretty lips showed the smallest and pearliest of teeth when she
smiled, and her dark eyes sparkled and danced under the thin, dark curve of her eyebrows and
the shade of her long, curling lashes. Then her hair would not on any account lie straight,
but disposed itself in dainty tendrils and love-locks over her forehead, which gave her almost
a childish look, and was a serious trouble to Miss Kitty herself, who preferred her step-mother's
abundant flaxen plaits, and did not know the charm that those soft rings of curling hair lent
to her irregular, little face.

Vivian took a cup of tea from her with an indulgent smile, He liked Kitty extremely well. He
lent her books sometimes, which she did not always read. I am afraid that he tried to form
her mind. Kitty had a mind of her own, which did not want forming. Perhaps Percival Heron,
was right when he said that Vivian was a prig. He certainly liked to lecture Kitty; and she
used to look up at him with great, grave eyes when he was lecturing, and pretend to understand
what he was saying. She very often did not understand a word; but Rupert never suspected that.
He thought that Kitty was a very simple-minded little person.

"There was quite an argument going on when you appeared, Mr. Vivian," said Mrs. Heron, languidly.
"It is sometimes a most difficult matter to decide what is right and what is wrong. I think
you must decide for us."

"I am not skilled in casuistry," said Vivian, smiling. "Is Percival giving forth some of his
heresies?"

"I was never less heretical in my life," cried Percival. "State your case, Bess; I'll give
you the precedence."

Vivian turned towards the dark corner.

"It is Miss Murray's difficulty, is it?" he said, with a look of some interest. "I shall be
glad to hear it."

The girl in the dark corner stirred a little uneasily, but she spoke with no trepidation of
manner, and her voice was clear and cool.

"The question," she said, "is whether a man may write articles in a daily paper, advocating
views which are not his own, simply because they are the views of the editor. I call it dishonesty."

"So do I," said Kitty, warmly.

"Dishonesty? Not a bit of it," rejoined Percival. "The writer is the mouthpiece of the paper,
which advocates certain views; he sinks his individuality; he does not profess to explain his
own opinions. Besides, after all, what is dishonesty? Why should people erect honesty into
such a great virtue? It is like truth-telling and--peaches; nobody wants them out of their
proper season; they are never good when they are forced."

"I don't see any analogy between truth-telling and peaches," said the calm voice from the corner.

"You tell the truth all the year round, don't you, Bess?" said Kitty, with a little malice.

"But we are mortal, and don't attempt to practice exotic virtues," said Percival, mockingly.
"I see no reason why I should not flourish upon what is called dishonesty, just as I see no
reason why I should not tell lies. It is only the diseased sensibility of modern times which
condemns either."

"Modern times?" said Vivian. "I have heard of a commandment----"

"Good Heavens!" said Percival, throwing back his handsome head, "Vivian is going to be didactic!
I think this conversation has lasted quite long enough. Elizabeth, consider yourself worsted
in the argument, and contest the point no longer."

"There has been no argument," said Elizabeth. "There has been assertion on your part, and indignation
on ours; that is all."

"Then am I to consider myself worsted?" asked Percival. But he got no answer. Presently, however,
he burst out with renewed vigour.

"Right and wrong! What does it mean? I hate the very sound of the words. What is right to me
is wrong to you, and vice versa. It's all a matter of convention.

The lines rang out boldly upon the listeners' ears. Percival was one of the few men who can
venture to recite poetry without making themselves ridiculous. He continued hotly--

"There is neither truth nor falsehood in the world, and those who aver that there is are either
impostors or dupes."

"Ah," said Vivian, "you remind me of Bacon's celebrated sentence--'Many there be that say with
jesting Pilate, What is truth? but do not wait for an answer.'"

"I think you have both quoted quite enough," said Kitty, lightly. "You forget how little I
understand of these deep subjects. I don't know how it is, but Percival always says the things
most calculated to annoy people; he never visits papa's studio without abusing modern art,
or meets a doctor without sneering at the medical profession, or loses an opportunity of telling
Elizabeth, who loves truth for its own sake, that he enjoys trickery and falsehood, and thinks
it clever to tell lies."

"Very well put, Kitty," said Percival, approvingly. "You have hit off your brother's amiable
character to the life. Like the child in the story, I could never tell why people loved me
so, but now I know."

There was a general laugh, and also a discordant clatter at the other end of the room, where
the children, hitherto unnoticed, had come to blows over a broken toy.

"What a noise they make!" said Percival, with a frown.

"Perhaps they had better go away," murmured Mrs. Heron, gently. "Dear Lizzy, will you look
after them a little? They are always good with you."

The girl rose and went silently towards the three children, who at once clustered round her
to pour their woes into her ear. She bent down and spoke to them lovingly, as it seemed, and
finally quitted the room with one child clinging round her neck, and the others hanging to
her gown. Percival gave vent to a sudden, impatient sigh.

"Miss Murray is fond of children," said Vivian, looking after her pleasantly.

"And I am not," snapped Kitty, with something of her brother's love of opposition in her tone.
"I hate children."

"You! You are only a child yourself," said he, turning towards her with a kindly look in his
grave eyes, and an unwonted smile. But Kitty's wrath was appeased by neither look nor smile.

"Then I had better join my compeers," she said, tartly. "I shall at least get the benefit of
Elizabeth's affection for children."

Vivian's chair was close to hers, and the tea-table partly hid them from Percival's lynx eyes.
Mrs. Heron was half asleep. So there was nothing to hinder Mr. Rupert Vivian from putting out
his hand and taking Kitty's soft fingers for a moment soothingly in his own. He did not mean
anything but an elderly-brotherly, patronising sort of affection by it; but Kitty was "thrilled
through every nerve" by that tender pressure, and sat mute as a mouse, while Vivian turned
to her step-mother and began to speak.

"I had some news this morning of my sister," he said. "You heard of the sad termination to
her engagement?"

"No; what was that?"

"She was to be married before Christmas to a Mr. Luttrell; but Mr. Luttrell was killed a short
time ago by a shot from his brother's gun when they were out shooting together."

"How very sad!"

"The brother has gone--or is going--abroad; report says that he takes the matter very much
to heart. And Angela is going to live with Mrs. Luttrell, the mother of these two men. I thought
these details might be interesting to you," said Vivian, looking round half-questioningly,
"because I understand that the Luttrells are related to your young friend--or cousin--Miss Murray."

"Indeed? I never heard her mention the name," said Mrs. Heron.

Vivian thought of something that he had recently heard in connection with Miss Murray and the
Luttrell family, and wondered whether she knew that if Brian Luttrell died unmarried she would
succeed, to a great Scotch estate. But he said nothing more.

"Where is Elizabeth?" said Percival, restlessly. "She is a great deal too much with these children--they
drag the very life out of her. I shall go and find her."

He marched away, noting as he went, with much dissatisfaction, that Mrs. Heron was inviting
Vivian to dinner, and that he was accepting the invitation.

He went to the top of the house, where he knew that a room was appropriated to the use of the
younger children. Here he found Elizabeth for once without the three little Herons. She was
standing in the middle of the room, engaged in the prosaic occupation of folding up a table-cloth.

He stood in the doorway looking at her for a minute or two before he spoke. She was a tall
girl, with fine shoulders, and beautiful arms and hands. He noticed them particularly as she
held up the cloth, shook it out, and folded it. A clear, fine-grained skin, with a colour like
that of a June rose in her cheeks, well-opened, calm-looking, grey-blue eyes, a mass of golden
hair, almost too heavy for her head; a well-cut profile, and rather stately bearing, made Elizabeth
Murray a noticeable person even amongst women more strictly beautiful than herself. She was
poorly and plainly dressed, but poverty and plainness became her, throwing into strong relief
the beauty of her rose-tints and finely-moulded figure. She did not start when she saw Percival
at the door; she smiled at him frankly, and asked why he had come.

"Do you know anything of the Luttrells?" he asked, abruptly.

"The Luttrells of Netherglen? They are my third cousins."

"You never speak of them."

"I never saw them."

"Do you know what has happened to one of them."

"Yes. He shot his brother by mistake a few days ago."

"I was thinking rather of the one who was killed," said Percival. "Where did you see the account?
In the newspaper?"

"Yes." Then she hesitated a little. "And I had a letter, too."

"From the Luttrells themselves?"

"From their lawyer."

"And you held your tongue about it?"

"There was nothing to say," said Elizabeth, with a smile.

Percival shrugged his shoulders, and went back to the drawing-room.

CHAPTER IX.

ELIZABETH'S WOOING.

Percival and his friend dined with the Herons that evening. Mr. Heron was an artist by profession;
he was a fair, abstracted-looking man, with gold eye-glasses, which he was always sticking
ineffectually upon the bridge of his nose and nervously feeling for when they tumbled down
again. He had painted several good pictures in his time, and was in the habit of earning a
fairly good income; but owing to some want of management, either on his part or his wife's,
his income never seemed quite large enough for the needs of the household. The servants' wages
were usually in arrear; the fittings of the house were broken and never repaired; there were
wonderful gaps in the furniture and the china, which nobody ever appeared to think of filling
up. Rupert remembered the ways of the house when he had boarded there, and was not surprised
to find himself dining upon mutton half-burnt and half-raw, potatoes more like bullets than
vegetables, and a partially cooked rice-pudding, served upon the remains of at least three
dinner-services, accompanied by sour beer and very indifferent claret. Percival did not even
pretend to eat; he sat back in his chair and declared, with an air of polite disgust, that
he was not hungry. Rupert made up for his deficiencies, however; he swallowed what was set
before him and conversed with his hostess, who was quite unconscious that anything was amiss.
Mrs. Heron had a vague taste for metaphysics and political economy; she had beautiful theories
of education, which she was always intending, at some future time, to put into practice for
the benefit of her three little boys, Harry, Willy, and Jack. She spoke of these theories,
with her blue eyes fixed on vacancy and her fork poised gracefully in the air, while Vivian
laboured distastefully through his dinner, and Percival frowned in silence at the table-cloth.

"I have always thought," Mrs. Heron was saying sweetly, "that children ought not to be too
much controlled. Their development should be perfectly free. My children grow up like young
plants, with plenty of sun and air; they play as they like; they work when they feel that they
can work best; and, if at times they are a little noisy, at any rate their noise never develops
into riot."

Percival did not, perhaps, intend her to hear him, but, below his breath, he burst into a sardonic,
little laugh and an aside to his sister Kitty.

"Never into riot! I never heard them stop short of it!"

Mrs. Heron looked at him uncertainly, and took pains to explain herself.

"Up to a certain point, I was going to say, Percival, dear. At the proper age, I think, that
discipline, entire and perfect discipline, ought to begin."

"And what is the proper age?" said Percival, ironically. "For it seems to me that the boys
are now quite old enough to endure a little discipline."

"Oh, at present," said Mrs. Heron, with undisturbed composure, "they are in Elizabeth's hands.
I leave them entirely to her. I trust Elizabeth perfectly."

"Is that the reason why Elizabeth does not dine with us?" said Percival, looking at his step-mother
with an expression of deep hostility. But Mrs. Heron's placidity was of a kind which would
not be ruffled.

"Elizabeth is so kind," she said. "She teaches them, and does everything for them; but, of
course, they must go to school by-and-bye. Dear papa will not let me teach them myself. He
tells me to forget that ever I was a governess; but, indeed"--with a faint, pensive smile--"my
instincts are too strong for me sometimes, and I long to have my pupils back again. Do I not,
Kitty, darling?"

"I was not a pupil of yours very long, Isabel," said Kitty, who never brought herself to the
point of calling Mrs. Heron by anything but her Christian name.

"Not long," sighed Mrs. Heron. "Too short a time for me."

At this point Mr. Heron, who noticed very little of what was going on around him, turned to
his son with a question about the politics of the day. Percival, with his nose in the air,
hardly deigned at first to answer; but upon Vivian's quietly propounding some strongly Conservative
views, which always acted on the younger Heron as a red rag is supposed to act upon a bull,
he waxed impatient and then argumentative, until at last he talked himself into a good humour,
and made everybody else good humoured.

When they returned to the untidy but pleasant-looking drawing-room, they found Elizabeth engaged
in picking up the children's toys, straightening the sheets of music on the piano, and otherwise
making herself generally useful; She had changed her dress, and put on a long, plain gown of
white cashmere, which suited her admirably, although it was at least three years old, undeniably
tight for her across the shoulders, and short at the wrists, having shrunk by repeated washings
since the days when it first was made. She wore no trimmings and no ornaments, whereas Kitty,
in her red frock, sported half-a-dozen trumpery bracelets, a silver necklace, and a little
bunch of autumn flowers; and Mrs. Heron's pale-blue draperies were adorned with dozens of yards
of cheap cream-coloured lace. Vivian looked at Elizabeth and wondered, almost for the first
time, why she differed so greatly from the Herons. He had often seen her before; but, being
now particularly interested by what he had heard about her, he observed her more than usual.

Mrs. Heron sat down at the piano; she played well, and was rather fond of exhibiting her musical
proficiency. Percival and Kitty were engaged in an animated, low-toned conversation. Rupert
approached Elizabeth, who was arranging some sketches in a portfolio with the diligence of
a housemaid. She was standing just within the studio, which was separated from the drawing-room
by a velvet curtain now partially drawn aside.

"Do you sketch? are these your drawings?" he asked her.

"No, they are Uncle Alfred's. I cannot draw."

"You are musical, I suppose," said Rupert, carelessly.

He took it for granted that, if a girl did not draw, she must needs play the piano. But her
next words undeceived him.

"No, I can't play. I have no accomplishments."

"What do you mean by accomplishments?" asked Vivian, smiling.

"I mean that I know nothing about French and German, or music and drawing," said Elizabeth,
calmly. "I never had any systematic education. I should make rather a good housemaid, I believe,
but my friends won't allow me to take a housemaid's situation."

"I should think not," ejaculated Vivian.

"But it is all that I am fit for," she continued, quietly. "And I think it is rather a pity
that I am not allowed to be happy in my own way."

There was a little silence. Vivian felt himself scarcely equal to the occasion. Presently she
said, with more quickness of speech than usual:--

"You have been in Scotland lately, have you not?"

"I was there a short time ago, but for two days only."

"Ah, yes, you went to Netherglen?"

"I did. The Luttrells are connections of yours, are they not, Miss Murray?"

"Very distant ones," said Elizabeth.

"You know that Brian Luttrell has gone abroad?"

"I have heard so."

There was very little to be got out of Miss Murray. Vivian was almost glad when Percival joined
them, and he was able to slip back to Kitty, with whom he had no difficulty in carrying on
a conversation.

The studio was dimly lighted, and Percival, either by accident or design, allowed the curtain
to fall entirely over the aperture between the two rooms. He looked round him. Mr. Heron was
absent, and they had the room to themselves. Several unfinished canvasses were leaning against
the walls; the portrait of an exceedingly cadaverous-looking old man was conspicuous upon the
artist's easel; the lay figure was draped like a monk, and had a cowl drawn over its stiff,
wooden head. Percival shrugged his shoulders.

"My father's studio isn't an attractive-looking place," he said, with a growl of disgust in
his voice.

"Why did you come into it?" said Elizabeth.

"I had a good reason," he answered, looking at her.

If she understood the meaning that he wished to convey, it certainly did not embarrass or distress
her in the least. She gave him a very friendly, but serious, kind of smile, and went on calmly
with her work of sorting the papers and sketches that lay scattered around her.

"Elizabeth," he said, "I am offended with you."

"That happens so often," she replied, "that I am never greatly surprised nor greatly concerned
at hearing it."

"It is of little consequence to you, no doubt," said Percival, rather huffily; "but I am--for
once--perfectly serious, Elizabeth. Why could you not come down to dinner to-night when Rupert
and I were here?"

"I very seldom come down to dinner. I was with the children."

"The children are not your business."

"Indeed they are. Mrs. Heron has given them into my charge, and I am glad of it. Not that I
care for all children," said Elizabeth, with the cool impartiality that was wont to drive Percival
to the very verge of distraction. "I dislike some children very much, indeed, but, you see,
I happen--fortunately for myself--to be fond of Harry, Willie, and Jack."

"Fortunately, for yourself, do you say? Fortunately for them! You must be fond of them, indeed.
You can have their society all day and every day; and yet you could not spare a single hour
to come and dine with us like a rational being. Vivian will think they make a nursery-maid
of you, and I verily believe they do!"

"What does it signify to us what Mr. Vivian thinks? I don't mind being taken for a nursery-maid
at all, if I am only doing my proper work. But I would have come down, Percival, indeed, I
would, if little Jack had not seemed so fretful and unwell. I am afraid something really is
the matter with his back; he complains so much of pain in it, and cannot sleep at night. I
could not leave him while he was crying and in pain, could I?"

"What did you do with him?" asked Percival, after a moment's pause.

"I walked up and down the room. He went to sleep in my arms."

"Of course, you tired yourself out with that great, heavy boy!"

"You don't know how light little Jack is; you cannot have taken him in your arms for a long
time, Percival," said she, in a hurt tone; "and I am very strong. My hands ought to be of some
use to me, if my brain is not."

"Your brain is strong enough, and your will is strong enough for anything, but your hands----"

"Are they to be useless?"

"Yes, they are to be useless," he said, "and somebody else must work for you."

"That arrangement would not suit me. I like to work for myself," she answered, smiling.

They were standing on opposite sides of a small table on which the portfolio of drawings rested.
Percival was holding up one side of the portfolio, and she was placing the sketches one by
one upon each other.

"Do you know what you look like?" said Percival, suddenly. There was a thrill of pleasurable
excitement in his tone, a glow of ardour in his dark eyes. "You look like a tall, white lily
to-night, with your white dress and your gleaming hair. The pure white of the petals and the
golden heart of the lily have found their match."

"I am recompensed for the trouble I took in changing my dress this evening," said Elizabeth,
glancing down at it complacently. "I did not expect that it would bring me so poetic a compliment.
Thank you, Percival."

"'Consider the lilies; they toil not, neither do they spin,'" quoted Percival, recklessly.
"Why should you toil and spin?--a more beautiful lily than any one of them. If Solomon in all
his glory was not equal to those Judean lilies, then I may safely say that the Queen of Sheba
would be beaten outright by our Queen Elizabeth, with her white dress and her golden locks!"

"Mrs. Heron would say you were profane," said Elizabeth, tranquilly. "These comparisons of
yours don't please me exactly, Percival; they always remind me of the flowery leaders in some
of the evening papers, and make me remember that you are a journalist. They have a professional
air."

"A professional air!" repeated Percival, in disgust. He let the lid of the portfolio fall with
a bang upon the table. Several of the sketches flew wildly over the floor, and Elizabeth turned
to him with a reproachful look, but she had no time to protest, for in that moment he had seized
her hands and drawn her aside with him to a sofa that stood on one side of the room.

"You shall not answer me in that way," he said, half-irritated, half-amused, and wholly determined
to have his way. "You shall sit down there and listen to me in a serious spirit, if you can.
No, don't shake your head and look at me so mockingly. It is time that we understood each other,
and I don't mean another night to pass over our heads without some decision being arrived at.
Elizabeth, you must know that you have my happiness in your hands. I can't live without you.
I can't bear to see you making yourself a slave to everybody, with no one to love you, no one
to work for you and save you from anxiety and care. Let me work for you, now, dearest; be my
wife, and I will see that you have your proper place, and that you are tended and cared for
as a woman ought to be."

Elizabeth had withdrawn her hands from his; she even turned a little pale. He fancied that
the tears stood in her eyes.

"Oh," she said, "I wish you had not said this to me, Percival."

It was easy for him to slip down from his low seat to a footstool, and there, on one knee,
to look full into her face, and let his handsome, dark eyes plead for him.

"Why should I not have said it?" he breathed, softly. "Has it not been the dream of my life
for months?--I might almost say for years? I loved you ever since you first came amongst us,
Elizabeth, years ago."

"Did you, indeed?" said Elizabeth. A light of humour showed itself through the tears that had
come into her eyes. An amused, reluctant smile curved the corners of her mouth. "What, when
I was an awkward, clumsy, ignorant schoolgirl, as I remember your calling me one day after
I had done something exceptionally stupid? And when you played practical jokes upon me--hung
my doll up by its hair, and made me believe that there was a ghost in the attics--did you care
for me then? Oh, no, Percival, you forget! and probably you exaggerate the amount of your feeling
as much as you do the length of time it has lasted."

"It's no laughing matter, I assure you, Elizabeth," said Percival, laughing a little himself
at these recollections, but looking vexed at the same time. "I am perfectly serious now, and
very much in earnest; and I can't believe that my stupid jokes, when I was a mere boy, have
had such an effect upon your mind as to prevent you from caring for me now."

"No," said Elizabeth. "They make no difference; but--I'm very sorry, Percival--I really don't
think that it would do."

"What would not do? what do you mean?" said Percival, frowning.

"This arrangement; this--this--proposition of yours. Nobody would like it."

"Nobody could object. I have a perfect right to marry if I choose, and whom I choose. I am
independent of my father."

"You could not marry yet, Percival," she said, in rather a chiding tone.

"I could--if you would not mind sharing my poverty with me. If you loved me, Elizabeth, you
would not mind."

"I am afraid I do not love you--in that way," said Elizabeth, meditatively. "No, it would never
do. I never dreamt of such a thing."

"Nobody expects you to have dreamt of it," rejoined Percival, with a short laugh. "The dreaming
can be left to me. The question is rather whether you will think of it now--consider it a little,
I mean. It seems to be a new idea to you--though I must say I wonder that you have not seen
how much I loved you, Elizabeth! I am willing to wait until you have grown used to it. I cannot
believe that you do not care for me! You would not be so cruel; you must love me a little--just
a very little, Elizabeth."

"Well, I do," said Elizabeth, smiling at his vehemence. "I do love you--more than a little--as
I love you all. You have been so good to me that I could not help caring for you--in spite
of the doll and the ghost in the attic." Her smile grew gravely mischievous as she finished
the sentence.

"Oh, that is not what I want," cried Percival, starting up from his lowly position at her feet.
"That is not the kind of love that I am asking for at all."

"I am afraid you will get no other," said Elizabeth, with a ring of sincerity in her voice
that left no room for coquetry. "I am sorry, but I cannot help it, Percival."

"Your love is not given to anyone else?" he demanded, fiercely.

"You have no right to ask. But if it is a satisfaction to you, I can assure you that I have
never cared for anyone in that way. I do not know what it means," said Elizabeth, looking directly
before her. "I have never been able to understand."

"Let me make you understand," murmured Percival, his momentary anger melting before the complete
candour of her eyes. "Let me teach you to love, Elizabeth."

She was silent--irresolute, as it appeared to him.

"You would learn very easily," said he. "Try--let me try."

"I don't think I could be taught," she answered, slowly. "And really I am not sure that I care
to learn."

"That is simply because you do not know your own heart," said Percival, dogmatically. "Trust
me, and wait awhile. I will have no answer now, Elizabeth. I will ask you again."

"And suppose my answer is the same?"

"It won't be the same," said Percival, in a masterful sort of way. "You will understand by-and-bye."

She did not see the fire in his eyes, nor the look of passionate yearning that crossed his
face as he stood beside her, or she would scarcely have been surprised when he bent down suddenly
and pressed his lips to her forehead. She started to her feet, colouring vividly and angrily.
"How dare you, Percival!----" she began. But she could not finish the sentence. Kitty called
her from the other room. Kitty's face appeared; and the curtain was drawn aside by an unseen
hand with a great clatter of rings upon the pole.

"Where have you been all this time?" said she. "Isabel wants you, Lizzie. Percival, Mr. Vivian
talks of going."

Elizabeth vanished through the curtain. Percival had not even time to breathe into her ear
the "Forgive me" with which he meant to propitiate her. He was not very penitent for his offence.
He thought that he was sure of Elizabeth's pardon, because he thought himself sure of Elizabeth's
love. But, as a matter of fact, that stolen kiss did not at all advance his cause with Elizabeth
Murray.

He did not see her again that night--a fact which sent him back to his lodging in an ill-satisfied
frame of mind. He and Vivian shared a sitting-room between them; and, on their return from
Mr. Heron's, they disposed themselves for their usual smoke and chat. But neither of them seemed
inclined for conversation. Rupert lay back in a long lounging-chair; Percival turned over the
leaves of a new publication which had been sent to him for review, and uttered disparaging
comments upon it from time to time.

"I hope all critics are not so hypercritical as you are," said Vivian at last, when the volume
had finally been tossed to the other end of the room with an exclamation of disgust.

"Pah! why will people write such abominable stuff?" said Percival. "Reach me down that volume
of Bacon's Essays behind you; I must have something to take the taste out of my mouth before
I begin to write."

Vivian handed him the book, and watched him with some interest as he read. The frown died away
from his forehead, and the mouth gradually assumed a gentler expression before he had turned
the first page. In five minutes he was so much absorbed that he did not hear the question which
Vivian addressed to him.

"What position," said Rupert, deliberately, "does Miss Murray hold in your father's house?"

"Eh? What? What position?" Away went Percival's book to the floor; he raised himself in his
chair, and began to light his pipe, which had gone out. "What do you mean?" he said.

"Is she a ward of your father's? Is she a relation of yours?"

"Yes, of course, she is," said Percival, rather resentfully. "She is a cousin. Let me see.
Her father, Gordon Murray, was my mother's brother. She is my first cousin. And Cinderella
in general to the household," he added, grimly.

"Oh, Gordon Murray was her father? So I supposed. Then if poor Richard Luttrell had not died
I suppose she would have been a sort of connection of my sister's. I remember Angela wondered
whether Gordon Murray had left any family."

"Why?"

"Why? You know the degree of relationship and the terms of the will made by Mrs. Luttrell's
father, don't you?"

"Not I."

"Gordon Murray--this Miss Murray's father--was next heir after the two Luttrells, if they died
childless. Of course, Brian is still living; but if he died, Miss Murray would inherit, I understand."

"There's not much chance," said Percival, lightly.

"Not much," responded Vivian.

They were interrupted by a knock at the door. The landlady, with many apologies, brought them
a telegram which had been left at the house during their absence, and which she had forgotten
to deliver. It was addressed to Vivian, who tore it open, read it twice, and then passed it
on to Percival without a word.

It was from Angela Vivian, and contained these words only--

"Brian Luttrell is dead."

CHAPTER X.

BROTHER DINO.

When Brian Luttrell left England he had no very clear idea of the places that he meant to visit,
or the things that he wished to do. He wished only to leave old associations behind him--to
forget, and, if possible to be forgotten.

He was conscious of a curious lack of interest in life; it seemed to him as though the very
springs of his being were dried up at their source. As a matter of fact, he was thoroughly
out of health, as well as out of spirits; he had been over-working himself in London, and was
scarcely out of the doctor's hands before he went to Scotland; then the shock of his brother's
death and the harshness of his mother toward him had contributed their share to the utter disorganisation
of his faculties. In short, Brian was not himself at all; it might even be said that he was
out of his right mind. He had attacks of headache, generally terminating in a kind of stupor
rather than sleep, during which he could scarcely be held responsible for the things he said
or did. At other times, a feverish restlessness came upon him; he could not sleep, and he could
not eat; he would then go out and walk for miles and miles, until he was thoroughly exhausted.
It was a wonder that his mind did not give way altogether. His sanity hung upon a thread.

It was in this state that he found himself one day upon a Rhine boat, bound for Mainz. He had
a very vague notion of how he had managed to get there; he had no notion at all of his reason
for travelling in that direction. It dawned upon him by degrees that he had chosen the very
same route, and made the same stoppages, as he had done when he was a mere boy, travelling
with his father upon the Continent. Richard and his mother had not been there; Brian and Mr.
Luttrell had spent a particularly happy time together, and the remembrance of it soothed his
troubled brain, and caused his eye to rest with a sort of dreamy pleasure upon the scene around
him.

It was rather late for a Rhine expedition, and the boat was not at all full. Brian rather thought
that the journey with his father had been taken at about the same time of the year--perhaps
even a little later. He had a special memory of the wealth of Virginian creeper which covered
the buildings near Coblentz. He looked out for it when the boat stopped at the landing-stage,
and thought of the time when he had wandered hand-in-hand with his father in the pleasant Anlagen
on the river banks, and gathered a scarlet trail of leaves from the castle walls. The leaves
were in their full autumnal glory now; he must have been there at about the same season when
he was a boy.

After determining this fact to his satisfaction, Brian went back to the seat that he had found
for himself at the end of the boat, and began once more to watch the gliding panorama of "castled
crag" and vine-clad slope, which was hardly as familiar to him as it is to most of us. But,
after all, Drachenfels and Ehrenbreitstein had no great interest for him. He had no great interest
in anything. Perhaps the little excitement and bustle at the landing-places pleased him more
than the scenery itself--the peasants shouting to each other from the banks, the baskets of
grapes handed in one after another, the patient oxen waiting in the roads between the shafts;
these were sights which made no great claim upon his attention and were curiously soothing
to his jaded nerves. He watched them languidly, but was not sorry from time to time to close
his eyes and shut out his surroundings altogether.

The worst of it was, that when he had closed his eyes for a little time, the scene in the wood
always came back to him with terrible distinctness, or else there rose up before his eyes a
picture of that darkened room, with Richard's white face upon the pillow and his mother's dark
form and outstretched hand. These were the memories that would not let him sleep at night or
take his ease in the world by day. He could not forget the past.

There was another passenger on the boat who passed and repassed Brian several times, and looked
at him with curious attention. Brian's face was one which was always apt to excite interest.
It had grown thin and pallid during the past fortnight; the eyes were set in deep hollows,
and wore a painfully sad expression. He looked as if he had passed through some period of illness
or sorrow of which the traces could never be wholly obliterated. There was a pathetic hopelessness
in his face which was somewhat remarkable in so young a man.

The passenger who regarded him with so much interest was also a young man, not more than Brian's
own age, but apparently not an Englishman. He spoke English a little, though with a foreign
accent, but his French was remarkably good and pure. He stopped short at last in front of Brian
and eyed him attentively, evidently believing that the young man was asleep. But Brian was
not asleep; he knew that the regular footstep of his travelling companion had ceased, and was
hardly surprised, when he opened his eyes, to find the Frenchman--if such he were--standing
before him.

Brian looked at him attentively for a moment, and recognised the fact that the young foreigner
wore an ecclesiastical habit, a black soutane or cassock, such as is worn in Roman Catholic
seminaries, not necessarily denoting that the person who wears it has taken priest's vows upon
him. Brian was not sufficiently well versed in the subject to know what grade was signified
by the dress of the young ecclesiastic, but he conjectured (chiefly from its plainness and
extreme shabbiness) that it was not a very high one. The young man's face pleased him. It was
intellectual and refined in contour, rather of the ascetic type; with that faint redness about
the heavy eyelids which suggests an insufficiency of sleep or a too great amount of study;
large, penetrating, dark eyes, underneath a broad, white brow; a firm mouth and chin. There
was something about his face which seemed vaguely familiar to Brian; and yet he could not in
the least remember where he had seen it before, or what associations it called up in his mind.

The young man courteously raised his broad, felt hat.

"Pardon me," he said, "you are ill--suffering--can I do nothing for you?"

"I am not ill, thank you. You are very good, but I want nothing," said Brian, with a feeling
of annoyance which showed itself in the coldness of his manner. And yet he was attracted rather
than repelled by the stranger's voice and manner. The voice was musical, the manner decidedly
prepossessing. He was not sorry that the young ecclesiastic did not seem ready to accept the
rebuff, but took a seat on the bench by his side, and made a remark upon the scenery through
which they were passing. Brian responded slightly enough, but with less coldness; and in a
few minutes--he did not know how it happened--he was talking to the stranger more freely than
he had done to anyone since he left England. Their conversation was certainly confined to trivial
topics; but there was a frankness and a delicacy of perception about the young foreigner which
made him a very attractive companion. He gave Brian in a few words an outline of the chief
events of his life, and seemed to expect no confidence from Brian in return. He had been brought
up in a Roman Catholic seminary, and was destined to become a Benedictine monk. He was on his
way to join an elder priest in Mainz; thence he expected to proceed to Italy, but was not sure
of his destination.

"I shall perhaps meet you again, then?" said Brian. "I am perhaps going to Italy myself."

The young man smiled and shook his head. "You are scarcely likely to encounter me, monsieur,"
he answered. "I shall be busy amongst the poor and sick, or at work within the monastery. I
shall remember you--but I do not think that we shall meet again."

"By what name should I ask for you if I came across any of your order?" said Brian.

"I am generally known as Dino Vasari, or Brother Dino, at your service, monsieur," replied
the Italian, cheerfully. "If, in your goodness, you wished to inquire after me, you should
ask at the monastery of San Stefano, where I spend a few weeks every year in retreat. The Prior,
Father Cristoforo, is an old friend of mine, and he will always welcome you if you should pass
that way. There is good sleeping accommodation for visitors."

Brian took the trouble to make an entry in his note-book to this effect. It turned out to be
a singularly useful one. As they were reaching Mainz something prompted Brian to ask a question.
"Why did you speak to me this afternoon?" he said, the morbid suspiciousness of a man who is
sick in mind as well as body returning full upon him. "You do not know me?"

"No, monsieur, I do not know you." The ecclesiastic's pale brow flushed; he even looked embarrassed.
"Monsieur," he said at last, "you had the appearance--you will pardon my saying so--of one
who was either ill or bore about with him some unspoken trouble; it is the privilege of the
Order to which I hope one day to belong to offer help when help is needed; and for a moment
I hoped it might be my special privilege to give some help to you."

"Why did you think so?" Brian asked, hastily. "You did not know my name?"

The Italian cast down his eyes. "Yes, monsieur," he said in a low tone, "I did know your name."

Brian started up. He did not stop to weigh probabilities; he forgot how little likely a young
foreign seminarist would be to hear news of an accident in Scotland; he felt foolishly certain
that his name--as that of the man who had killed his brother--must be known to all the world!
It was the wildest possible delusion, such as could occur only to a man whose mind was off
its balance--and even he could not retain it for more than a minute or two; but in that space
of time he uttered a few wild words, which caused the young monk to raise his dark eyes to
his face with a look of sorrowful compassion.

"Does everyone know my wretched story, then? Do I carry a mark about with me--like Cain?" Brian
cried aloud.

"I know nothing of your story, monsieur," said Brother Dino, as he called himself, after a
little pause, "When I said that I knew your name, I should more properly have said the name
of your family. A gentleman of your name once visited the little town where I was brought up."
He paused again and added gently, "I have peculiar reasons for remembering him. He was very
good to a member of my family."

Brian had recovered his self-possession before the end of the young priest's speech, and was
heartily ashamed of his own weakness.

"I beg your pardon," he said, sinking back into his seat with an air of weariness and discouragement
that would have touched the heart of a tender-natured man, such as was Brother Dino of San
Stefano. "I must be an utter fool to have spoken as I did. You knew my father, did you? That
must be long ago."

"Many years." Brother Dino looked at the Englishman with some expression in his eyes which
Brian did not remark at the moment, but which recurred afterwards to his memory as being singular.
There was sympathy in it, pity, perhaps, and, above all, an intense curiosity. "Many years
ago my friends knew him; not I. The Signor Luttrell--he lives still in your country?"

"No. He died eight years ago."

"And----"

A question evidently trembled on the Italian's lips, but he restrained himself. He could not
ask it when he saw the pain and the dread in Brian's face. But Brian answered the question
that he had meant to ask.

"My brother is dead, also. My mother is living and well."

Then he wheeled round and looked at the landing-stage, to which they were now very close. The
stranger respected his emotion; he glanced once at the band of crape on Brian's arm, and then
walked quietly away. When he returned it was only to say good-bye.

"I should like to see you again," Brian said to him. "Perhaps I may find you out and visit
you some day. You find your life peaceful and happy, no doubt?"

"Perfectly."

"I envy you," said Brian.

They parted. Brian went away to his hotel, leaving the young seminarist still standing on the
deck--a black figure with his pale hands crossed upon his breast in the glow of the evening
sunshine, awaiting the arrival of his superior as a soldier waits for his commanding officer.
Brian looked back at him once and waved his hand: he had not been so much interested in anyone
for what seemed to him almost an eternity of time.

Sitting sadly and alone in the hotel that night, he fell to pondering over some of the words
that the young Italian had spoken, and the questions that he had asked. He wondered greatly
what was the service that his father had rendered to these Italians, and blamed himself a little
for not asking more about the young man's history. He knew well enough that his parents had
once spent two or three years abroad--chiefly in Italy; he himself had been born in an Italian
town, and had spent almost the whole of the first year of his life in a little village at the
foot of the Apennines. Was it not near a place called San Stefano, indeed, that he had been
nursed by an Italian peasant woman? Brian determined, in a vague and dreamy way, that at some
future time he would visit San Stefano, find out the history of his new acquaintance, and see
the place where he had been born at the same time. That is if ever he felt inclined to do anything
of the sort again. At present--and especially as the temporary interest inspired by the young
Italian died away--he felt as if he cared too little for his future to resolve upon doing anything.
There was a letter waiting for him, addressed in Mr. Colquhoun's handwriting. He had not even
the heart to open it and see what the lawyer had to say. Something drew him next morning towards
that wonderful old building of red stone, which looks as if it were hourly crumbling away,
and yet has lasted so many hundred years, the cathedral of Mainz. The service was just over;
the organ still murmured soft, harmonious cadences. The incense was wafted to his nostrils
as he walked down the echoing nave. There had been a mass for the dead and a funeral that morning;
part of the cathedral was draped in black cloth and ornamented by hundreds of wax candles,
which flared in the sunlight and dropped wax on the uneven pavement below. There was an oppressiveness
in the atmosphere to Brian; everything spoke to him of death and decay in that strange, old
city, which might veritably be called a city of the dead. He turned aside into the cloisters,
and listened mechanically while an old man discoursed to him in crabbed German concerning Fastrada's
tomb and the carved face of the minstrel Frauenlob upon the cloister wall. Presently, however,
the guide showed him a little door, and led him out into the pleasant grassy space round which
the cloisters had been built. He was conscious of a great feeling of relief. The blue sky was
above him again, and his feet were on the soft, green grass. There were tombstones amongst
the grass, but they were overgrown with ivy and blossoming rose-trees. Brian sat down with
a great sigh upon one of the old blocks of marble that strewed the ground, and told the guide
to leave him there awhile. The man thought that he wanted to sketch the place, as many English
artists did, and retired peacefully enough. Brian had no intention of sketching: he wanted
only to feel himself alone, to watch the gay, little sparrows as they leaped from spray to
spray of the monthly rose-trees, the waving of the long grass between the tombstones, and the
glimpse of blue sky beyond the mouldering reddish walls on either hand.

As he sat there, almost as though he were waiting for some expected visitor, the cloister doors
opened once more, and two or three men in black gowns came out. They were all priests except
one, and this one was the young Italian whose acquaintance Brian had made upon the steamer.
They were talking rapidly together; one of them seemed to be questioning the young man, and
he was replying with the serene yet earnest expression of countenance which had impressed Brian
so favourably. At first they stood still; by-and-bye they crossed the quadrangle, and here
Brother Dino fell somewhat behind the others. Following a sudden impulse, Brian suddenly rose
as he came near, and addressed him.

"Can you speak to me? I want to ask you about my father----"

He spoke in English, but the young priest replied in Italian.

"I cannot speak to you now. Wait till we meet at San Stefano."

The words might be abrupt, but the smile which followed them was so sweet, so benign, that
Brian was only struck with a sudden sense of the beauty of the expression upon that keen Italian
face. "God be with you!" said Brother Dino, as he passed on. He stretched out his hand; it
held one of the faintly-pink, sweet roses, which he had plucked near the cloister door. He
almost thrust it into Brian's passive fingers. "God be with you," he said, in his native tongue
once more. "Farewell, brother." In another moment he was gone. Brian had the green enclosure,
the birds and the roses to himself once more.

He looked down at the little overblown flower in his hand and carried it mechanically to his
nostrils. It was very sweet.

"Why does he think that I shall go to San Stefano?" he asked himself. "What is San Stefano
to me? Why should I meet him there?"

He sat down again, holding the flower loosely in one hand, and resting his head upon the other.
The old langour and sickness of heart were coming back upon him; the momentary excitement had
passed away. He would have given a great deal to be able to rouse himself from the depression
which had taken such firm hold of his mind; but he failed to discover any means of doing so.
He had a vague, morbid fancy that Brother Dino could help him to master his own trouble--he
knew not how; but this hope had failed him. He did not even care to go to San Stefano.

After a little time he remembered the letter in his pocket, addressed to him in Mr. Colquhoun's
handwriting. He took it out and looked at it for a few minutes. Why should Mr. Colquhoun write
to him unless he had something unpleasant to say? Perhaps he was only forwarding some letters.
This quiet, grassy quadrangle was a good place in which to read letters, he thought. He would
open the envelope and see what Colquhoun had to say.

He opened it very slowly.

Then he started, and his hand began to tremble. The only letter enclosed was one in his mother's
handwriting. Upon a slip of blue paper were a few words from the lawyer. "Forwarded to Mr.
Brian Luttrell at Mrs. Luttrell's request on the 25th of October, 1877, by James Colquhoun."

Brian opened the letter. It had no formal opening, but it was carefully signed and dated, and
ran as follows:--

"They tell me that I have done you an injury by doubting your word, and that I am an unnatural
mother in saying--even in my own chamber--what I thought. I have an excuse, which no one knows
but myself and James Colquhoun. I think it is well under present circumstances to tell you
what it is.

"I am a strong believer in race. I think that the influence of blood is far more powerful than
those of training or education, how strong soever they may be. Therefore, I was never astonished
although I was grieved, to see that your love for Richard was not so great as that of brothers
should have been----"

"It is false!" said Brian, with a groan, crushing the letter in his hand, and letting it fall
to his side. "No brother could have loved Richard more than I."

Presently he took up the letter again and read.

"Because I knew," it went on, "though many a woman in my position would not have guessed the
truth, that you were not Richard's brother at all: that you were not my son."

Again Brian paused, this time in utter bewilderment.

"Is my mother mad" he said to himself. "I--not her son? Who am I, then?"

"I repeat what I have said,"--so ran Mrs. Luttrell's letter--"with all the emphasis which I
can lay upon the words. The matter may not be capable of proof, but the truth remains. You
are not my son, not Edward Luttrell's son, not Richard Luttrell's brother--no relation of ours
at all; not even of English or Scottish blood. Your parents were Italian peasant-folk; and
my son, Brian Luttrell, lies buried in the churchyard of an Italian village at the foot of
the Western Apennines. You are a native of San Stefano, and your mother was my nurse."

CHAPTER XI.

ON A MOUNTAIN-SIDE.

"When my child Brian was born we were renting a villa near San Stefano, and were somewhat far
removed from any English doctor. My doctor was, therefore, an Italian; and what was worse,
he was an Italian monk. I hate foreigners, and I hate monks; so you may imagine for yourself
the way in which I looked upon him. No doubt he had a hand in the plot that has ended so miserably
for me and mine, so fortunately for you.

"My Brian was nursed by our gardener's wife, a young Italian woman called Vincenza, whose child
was about the age of mine. I saw Vincenza's child several times. Its eyes were brown (like
yours); my baby's eyes were blue. It was when they were both about two months old that I was
seized with a malarious fever, then very prevalent. They kept the children away from me for
months. At last I insisted upon seeing them. The baby had been ill, they told me; I must be
prepared for a great change in him. Even then my heart misgave me, I knew not why.

"Vincenza brought a child and laid it in my lap, I looked at it, and then I looked at her.
She was deadly white, and her eyes were red with tears. I did not know why. Of course I see
now that she had enough of the mother's heart in her to be loath to give up her child. For
it was her child that she had placed upon my knee. I knew it from the very first.

"'Take this child away and give me my own,' I said. 'This is not mine.'

"The woman threw up her hands and ran out of the room. I thought she had gone to fetch my baby,
and I remained with her child--a puny, crying thing--upon my knees. But she did not return.
Presently my husband came in, and I appealed to him. 'Tell Vincenza to take her wretched, little
baby away,' I said. 'I want my own. This is her child; not mine.'

"My husband looked at me, pityingly, as it seemed to my eyes. Suddenly the truth burst upon
me. I sprang to my feet and threw the baby away from me upon the bed. 'My child is dead,' I
cried. 'Tell me the truth; my child is dead.' And then I knew no more for days and weeks.

"When I recovered, I found, to my utter horror, that Vincenza and her child had not left the
house. My words had been taken for the ravings of a mad woman. Every one believed the story
of this wicked Italian woman who declared that it was her child who had died, mine that had
lived! I knew better. Could I be mistaken in the features of my own child? Had my Brian those
great, dark, brown eyes? I saw how it was. The Italians had plotted to put their child in my
Brian's place; they had forgotten that a mother's instinct would know her own amongst a thousand.
I accused them openly of their wickedness; and, in spite of their tears and protestations,
I saw from their guilty looks that it was true. My own Brian was dead, and I was left with
Vincenza's child, and expected to love it as my own.

"For nobody believed me. My husband never believed me. He maintained to the very last that
you were his child and mine. I fought like a wild beast for my dead child's rights; but even
I was mastered in the end. They threatened me--yes, James Colquhoun, in my husband's name,
threatened me--with a madhouse, if I did not put away from me the suspicion that I had conceived.
They assured me that Brian was not dead; that it was Vincenza's child that had died; that I
was incapable of distinguishing one baby from another--and so on. They said that I should be
separated from my own boy--my Richard, whom I tenderly loved--unless I put away from me this
'insane fancy,' and treated that Italian baby as my son. Oh, they were cruel to me--very cruel.
But they got their way. I yielded because I could not bear to leave my husband and my boy.
I let them place the child in my arms, and I learnt to call it Brian. I buried the secret in
my own heart, but I was never once moved from my opinion. My own child was buried at San Stefano,
and the boy that I took back with me to England was the gardener's son. You were that boy.

"I was silent about your parentage, but I never loved you, and my husband knew that I did not.
For that reason, I suppose, he made you his favourite. He petted you, caressed you more than
was reasonable or right. Only once did any conversation on the subject pass between us. He
had refused to punish you when you were a boy of ten, and had quarrelled with Richard. 'Mark
my words,' I said to him, 'there will be more quarrelling, and with worse results, if you do
not put a stop to it now. I should never trust a lad of Italian blood.' He looked at me, turning
pale as he looked. 'Have you not forgotten that unhappy delusion, then?' he said. 'It is no
delusion,' I answered him, composedly, 'to remind myself sometimes that this boy--Brian, as
you call him--is the son of Giovanni Vasari and his wife.' 'Margaret,' he said, 'you are a
mad woman!' He went out, shutting the door hastily behind him. But he never misunderstood me
again. Do you know what were his last words to me upon his death-bed? 'Don't tell him,' he
said, pointing to you with his weak, dying hand, 'If you ever loved me, Margaret, don't tell
him.' And then he died, before I had promised not to tell. If I had promised then, I would
have kept my word.

"I knew what he meant. I resolved that I would never tell you. And but for Richard's death
I would have held my tongue. But to see you in Richard's place, with Richard's money and Richard's
lands, is more than I can bear. I will not tell this story to the world, but I refuse to keep
you in ignorance any longer. If you like to possess Richard's wealth dishonestly, you are at
liberty to do so. Any court of law would give it to you, and say that it was legally yours.
There is, I imagine, no proof possible of the truth of my suspicions. Your mother and father
are, I believe, both dead. I do not remember the name of the monk who acted as my doctor. There
may be relations of your parents at San Stefano, but they are not likely to know the story
of Vincenza's child. At any rate, you are not ignorant any longer of the reasons for which
I believe it possible that you knew what you were doing when you were guilty of Richard Luttrell's
death. There is not a drop of honest Scotch or English blood in your veins. You are an Italian,
and I have always seen in your character the faults of the race to which by birth and parentage
you belong. If I had not been weak enough to yield to the threats and the entreaties with which
my husband and his tools assailed me, you would now be living, as your forefathers lived, a
rude and hardy peasant on the North Italian plains; and I--I might have been a happy woman still."

The letter bore the signature "Margaret Luttrell," and that was all.

The custodian of the place wondered what had come to the English gentleman; he sat so still,
with his face buried in his hands, and some open sheets of paper at his feet. The old man had
a pretty, fair-haired daughter who could speak English a little. He called her and pointed
out the stranger's bowed figure from one of the cloister windows.

"He looks as if he had had some bad news," said the girl. "Do you think that he is ill, father?
Shall I take him a glass of water, and ask him to walk into the house?"

Brian was aroused from a maze of wretched, confused thought by the touch of Gretchen's light
hand upon his arm. She had a glass of water in her hand.

"Would the gentleman not drink?" she asked him, with a look of pity that startled him from
his absorption. "The sun was hot that day, and the gentleman had chosen the hottest place to
sit in; would he not rather choose the cool cloister, or her father's house, for one little
hour or two?"

Brian stammered out some words of thanks, and drank the water eagerly. He would not stay, however;
he had bad news which compelled him to move on quickly--as quickly as possible. And then, with
a certain whiteness about the lips, and a look of perplexed pain in his eyes, he picked up
the papers as they lay strewn upon the grass, bowed to Gretchen with mechanical politeness,
and made his way to the door by which he had come in. One thing he forgot; he never thought
of it until long afterwards; the sweet, frail rose that Brother Dino had placed within his
hand when he bade him God-speed. In less than an hour he was in the train; he hardly knew why
or whither he was bound; he knew only that one of his restless fits had seized him and was
driving him from the town in the way that it was wont to do.

Mrs. Luttrell's letter was a great shock to him. He never dreamt at first of questioning the
truth of her assertions. He thought it very likely that she had been perfectly able to judge,
and that her husband had been mistaken in treating the matter as a delusion. At any time, this
conviction would have been a sore trouble to him, for he had loved her and her husband and
Richard very tenderly, but just now it seemed to him almost more than he could bear. He had
divested himself of nearly the whole of what had been considered his inheritance, because he
disliked so much the thought of profiting by Richard's death; was he also now to divest himself
of the only name that he had known, of the country that he loved, of the nation that he had
been proud to call his own? If his mother's story were true, he was, as she had said, the son
of an Italian gardener called Vasari; his name then must be Vasari; his baptismal name he did
not know. And Brian Luttrell did not exist; or rather, Brian Luttrell had been buried as a
baby in the little churchyard of San Stefano. It was a bitter thought to him.

But it could not be true. His whole being rose up in revolt against the suggestion that the
father whom he had loved so well had not been his own father; that Richard had been of no kin
to him. Surely his mother's mind must have been disordered when she refused to acknowledge
him. It could not possibly be true that he was not her son. At any rate, one duty was plain
to him. He must go to San Stefano and ascertain, as far as he could, the true history of the
Vasari family. And in the meantime he could write to Mr. Colquhoun. He was obliged to go on
to Geneva, as he knew that letters and remittances were to await him there. As soon as he had
received the answer that Mr. Colquhoun would send to his letter of inquiry, he would proceed
to Italy at once.

Some delay in obtaining the expected remittances kept Brian for more than a week at Geneva.
And there, in spite of the seclusion in which he chose to live, and his resolute avoidance
of all society, it happened that before he had been in the place three days he met an old University
acquaintance--a strong, cheery, good-natured fellow called Gunston, whose passion for climbing
Swiss mountains seemed to be unappeasable. He tried hard to make Brian accompany him on his
next expedition, but failed. Both strength and energy were wanting to him at this time.

Mr. Colquhoun's answers to Brian's communications were short, and, to the young-man's mind,
unsatisfactory. "At the time when Mrs. Luttrell first made the statement that she believed
you to be Vincenza Vasari's son, her mind was in a very unsettled state. Medical evidence went
to show that mothers did at times conceive a violent dislike to one or other of their children.
This was probably a case in point. The Vasaris were honest, respectable people, and there was
no reason to suppose that any fraud had been perpetrated. At the same time, it was impossible
to convince Mrs. Luttrell that her own child had not died; and Mr. Colquhoun was of opinion
that she would never acknowledge Brian as her son again, or consent to hold any personal intercourse
with him."

"It would be better if I were dead and out of all this uncertainty," said Brian, bitterly,
when he had read the letter. Yet, something in it gave him a sort of stimulus. He took several
long excursions, late though the season was; and in a few days he again encountered Gunston,
who was delighted to welcome him as a companion. Brian was a practised mountaineer; and though
his health had lately been impaired, he seemed to regain it in the cold, clear air of the Swiss
Alps. Gunston did not find him a genial companion; he was silent and even grim; but he was
a daring climber, and exposed his life sometimes with a hardihood which approached temerity.

But a day arrived on which Brian's climbing feats came to an end. They had made an easy ascent,
and were descending the mountain on the southern side, when an accident took place. It was
one which often occurs, and which can be easily pictured to oneself. They were crossing some
loose snow when the whole mass began to move, slowly first, then rapidly, down the slope of
the mountain-side.

Brian sank almost immediately up to his waist in the snow. He noticed that the guide had turned
his face to the descent and stretched out his arms, and he imitated this action as well as
he was able, hoping in that manner to keep them free. But he was too deeply sunk in the snow
to be able to turn round, and as he was in the rear of the others he could not see what became
of his companions. He heard one shout from Gunston, and that was all--"Good God, Luttrell,
we're lost!" And then the avalanche swept them onwards, first with a sharp, hissing sound,
and then with a grinding roar as of thunder, and Brian gave himself up for lost, indeed.

He was not sorry. Death was the easiest possible solution of all his difficulties. He had looked
for it many times; but he was glad to think that on this day, at least, he had not sought it
of his own free will. He thought of his mother--he could not call her otherwise in this last
hour--he thought of the father and the brother who had been dear to him in this world, and
would not, he believed, be less dear to him in the next; he thought of Angela, who would be
a little sorry for him, and Hugo, whom he could no longer help out of his numerous difficulties.
All these memories of his old home and friends flashed over his mind in less than a second
of time. He even thought of the estate, and of the Miss Murray who would inherit it. And then
he tried to say a little prayer, but could not fix his mind sufficiently to put any petition
into words.

And at this point he became aware that he was descending less rapidly.

His head and arms were fortunately still free. By a side glance he saw that the snow at some
distance before him had stopped sliding altogether. Then it ceased to move at a still higher
point, until at the spot where he lay it also became motionless, although above him it was
still rushing down as if to bury him in a living grave. He threw his hands up above his head,
and made a furious effort to extricate himself before the snow should freeze around him. And
in this effort he was more successful than he had even hoped to be. But the pressure of the
snow upon him was so great that he thought at first that it would break his ribs. When the
motion had ceased, however, this pressure became less powerful; by the help of his ice-axe
he managed to free himself, and knew that he was as yet unhurt, if not yet safe.

He looked round for his friend and for the guides. They had all been roped together, but the
rope had broken between himself and his companions. He saw only one prostrate form, and, at
some little distance, the hand of a man protruding from the white waste of snow.

The thought of affording help to the other members of the party stimulated Brian to efforts
which he would not, perhaps, have made on his own account. In a short time he was able to make
his way to the man lying face downwards in the snow. He had already recognised him as one of
the guides. It needed but a slight examination to convince him that this man was dead--not
from suffocation or cold, but from the effects of a wound inflicted in the fall. The hand,
sticking out of the snow belonged to the other guide; it was cold and stiff, and with all his
efforts Brian could not succeed in extricating the body from the snow in which it was tightly
wedged. Of the young Englishman, Gunston, and the other guide, there was absolutely nothing
to be seen.

Brian turned sick and faint when the conviction was forced upon him that he would see his friend
no more. His limbs failed him; he could not go on. He was born to misfortune, he said to himself;
born to bring trouble and sorrow upon his companions and friends. Without him, Gunston would
not, perhaps, have attempted this ascent. And how could he carry home to Gunston's family the
story of his death?

After all, it was very unlikely that he would reach the bottom of the mountain in safety. He
had no guide; he was utterly ignorant of the way. There were pitfalls without number in his
path--crevasses, precipices, treacherous ice-bridges, and slippery, loose snow. He would struggle
on until the end came, however; better to move, even towards death, than to lie down and perish
miserably of cold.

It is said sometimes that providence keeps a special watch over children and drunken men; that
is to say, that those who are absolutely incapable of caring for themselves do sometimes, by
wonderful good fortune, escape the dangers into which sager persons are apt to fall. So it
seemed with Brian Luttrell. For hours he struggled onwards, sore pressed by cold, and fatigue,
and pain; but at last, long after night had fallen, he staggered into a little hamlet on the
southern side of the mountain, footsore and fainting, indeed, but otherwise unharmed.

Nobody noticed his arrival very much. The villagers took him in, put him to bed, and gave him
food and drink, but they did not seem to think that he was one of "the rich Englishmen" who
sometimes visited their village, and they did not at all realise what he had done. To make
the descent that Brian had done without a guide would have appeared to them little short of
miraculous.

Brian had no opportunity of explaining to them how he had come. He was carried insensible into
the one small inn that the village contained and put to bed, where he woke up delirious and
quite unable to give any account of himself. When his mind was again clear, he remembered that
it was his duty to tell the story of the accident on the mountain, but as soon as he uttered
a few words on the subject he was met by an animated and circumstantial account of the affair
in all its details. Two Englishmen, and two guides, and a porter had been crossing the mountain
when the avalanche took place; a guide and a porter had been killed, and their bodies had been
recovered. One Englishman had been killed also, and the other----

"Yes, the other," began Brian, hurriedly, but the innkeeper stolidly continued his story. The
other had made his way back with the guide to the nearest town. He was there still, and had
been making expeditions every day upon the mountain to find the dead body of his friend. But
he had given up the search now, and was returning to England on the morrow. He had done all
he could, poor gentleman, and it was more than a week since the accident took place.

Brian suddenly put his head down on his pillow and lay still. Here was the chance for which
his soul had yearned! If the innkeeper spoke the truth, he--Brian Luttrell--was already numbered
amongst the dead. Why should he take the trouble to come back to life?

"Were none of the Englishman's clothes or effects found?" he asked, presently.

"Oh, yes, monsieur. His pocket-book--his hat. They were close to a dangerous crevasse. A guide
was lowered down it for fifty, eighty, feet, but nothing of the unfortunate Englishman was
to be seen. If he did not fall into the crevasse his body may be recovered in the spring--but
hardly before. Yes, his pocket-book and his hat, monsieur." A sudden gleam came into the little
innkeeper's eyes, and he spoke somewhat interrogatively--"Monsieur arrived here also without
his hat?"

For the first time the possibility occurred to the innkeeper's mind of his guest's identity
with the missing Englishman. Brian answered with a certain reluctance; he did not like the
part that he would have to play.

"I lost my way in walking from V----," he said, mentioning a town at some distance from the
mountain-pass by which he had really come; "and my hat was blown off by a gust of wind. The
weather was not good. I lost my way."

"True, monsieur. There was rain and there was wind: doubtless monsieur wandered from the right
track," said the innkeeper, accepting the explanation in all good faith.

When he left the room, Brian examined his belongings with care. Nothing in his possession was
marked, owing to the fact that his clothes were mostly new ones, purchased with a view to mountaineering
requirements. His pocket-book was lost. Mrs. Luttrell's letter and one or two other papers,
however, remained with him, and he had sufficient money in his pockets to pay the innkeeper
and preserve him from starvation for a time. He wondered that nobody had reported an unknown
traveller to be lying ill in the village; but it was plain that his escape had been thought
impossible. Even Gunston had given him up for lost. As he learnt afterwards, it was believed
that he had not been able to sever the rope, and that he, with one of the guides, had fallen
into a crevasse. The rope went straight down into the cleft, and he was believed to be at the
end of it. There was not the faintest doubt in the mind of the survivors but that Brian Luttrell
was dead. It remained for Brian himself to decide whether he should go back to the town, reclaim
his luggage, and take up life again at the point where he seemed to have let it drop--or go
forth into the world, penniless and homeless, without a name, without a hope for the future,
and without a friend.

Which should he do?

CHAPTER XII.

THE HEIRESS OF STRATHLECKIE.

"Elizabeth an heiress! Elizabeth, with a fortune of her own!" said Mrs. Heron. "It is perfectly
incredible."

"It is perfectly true," rejoined her step-son. "And it has been true for the last three days."

"Then Elizabeth does not know it," replied Kitty.

"As to whether she knows it or not," said Percival, sardonically, "I am quite unable to form
any opinion. Elizabeth has a talent for keeping secrets."

He was not sorry that the door opened at that moment, and that Elizabeth, entering with little
Jack in her arms, must have heard his words. She flashed a quick look at him--it was one that
savoured of reproach--and advanced into the middle of the room, where she stood silent, waiting
to be accused.

It was twelve o'clock on the morning of a bright, cold November day. Mrs. Heron was lying on
the sofa in the dining-room--a shabbily-comfortable, old-fashioned room where most of the business
of the house was transacted. Kitty sat on a low chair before the fire, warming her little,
cold hands. She had a cat on her lap, and a novel on the floor beside her, and looked very
young, very pretty, and very idle. Percival was fidgetting about the room with a glum and sour
expression of countenance. He was evidently much out of sorts, both in body and mind, for his
face was unusually sallow in tint, and there was a dark, upright line between his brows which
his relations knew and--dreaded. The genial, sunshiny individual of a few evenings back had
disappeared, and a decidedly bad-tempered young man now took his place.

Mrs. Heron's pretty, pale face wore an unaccustomed flush; and as she looked at Elizabeth the
tears came into her blue eyes, and she pressed them mildly with her handkerchief. Elizabeth
waited in patience; she was not sure of the side from which the attack would be made, but she
was sure that it was coming. Percival, with his hands thrust deep into his pockets, leaned
against a sideboard, and looked at her with disfavour. She was paler than usual, and there
were dark lines beneath her eyes. What made her look like that! Percival thought to himself.
One might fancy that she had been lying awake all night, if the thing were not (under the circumstances)
well-nigh impossible! But perhaps it was only her ill-fitting, unbecoming, old, serge gown
that made her look so pale. Percival was in the humour to see all her faults and defects that
morning.

"Why do you carry that great boy about?" he said, almost harshly. "You know that he is too
big to be carried. Do put him down."

"Yes, put him down, Elizabeth," said Mrs. Heron, still pressing her handkerchief to her eye.
"I am sure I have no desire to inflict any hardship upon you. If you devoted yourself to my
children, I thought that it was from choice and because you had an affection for your uncle's
family. But you seem to have had no affection--no respect--no confidence----"

A gentle sob cut short her words.

"What have I done?" said Elizabeth. Her face had turned a shade paler than before, but betrayed
no sign of confusion. "Lie still, Jack; I do not mean to put you down just yet. Indeed, I think
I had better carry you upstairs again." She left the room swiftly, pausing only at the door
to add a few words: "I will be down again directly. I shall be glad if Percival will wait."

There was a short silence, during which Mrs. Heron dried her eyes, and Percival stared uncomfortably
at the toe of his left boot.

"Surely Elizabeth has a right to her own secrets," said Kitty, from her station on the hearth.
But nobody replied.

Presently Elizabeth came down again, with a couple of letters in her hand. It seemed almost
as if she had been upstairs to rub a little life and colour into her face, for her cheeks were
carnation when she returned, and her eyes unusually bright.

"Will you tell me what I have done that distresses you?" she said, addressing herself steadily
to Mrs. Heron, though she saw Percival glance eagerly, hungrily, towards the letters in her hand.

"Indeed, I have no right to be distressed," replied Mrs. Heron, still, however, in an exceedingly
hurt tone. "Your own affairs are your own property, my dear Lizzie, as Kitty has just remarked;
but, considering the care and--the--the affection-lavished upon you here----"

She stopped short; Percival's dark eyes were darting their angry lightning upon her.

"A care and affection," he said, "which condemned her to the nursery in order that she might
indulge her extreme love for children, and save you the expense of a nursery-maid."

"You have no right to make such a remark, Percival!" exclaimed his step-mother, feebly, but
she quailed beneath the sneer instead of resenting it. Elizabeth turned sharply upon her cousin.

"No," she said, "you have no right to make such a remark. As you know very well, I had no friends,
no money, no home, when Uncle Alfred brought me here. I was a beggar--I should have starved,
perhaps--but for him. I owe him everything--and I do not forget my debt."

"Everything," said Percival, incisively, "except, I suppose, your confidence."

She turned away and walked up to Mrs. Heron's sofa. Here her manner changed, it became soft
and womanly; her voice took a gentler tone. "What is it, Aunt Isabel?" she said. "I am ready
to give you all the confidence that you wish for. I will have no secrets from you."

"Oh, then, Lizzie, is it true?" said Kitty, upsetting the cat in her haste, and flying across
the room to her cousin's side, while Mrs. Heron, taken by surprise, did nothing but sob helplessly
and hold Elizabeth's firm, white hand in a feeble grasp. "Is it really true? Have you inherited
a great fortune? Are you going to be very rich?"

Elizabeth made a little pause before she answered the question. "Brian Luttrell is dead," she
said at last, rather slowly. "And I am very sorry."

"And the Luttrells are your cousins? And you are the heiress after them?"

"Yes."

"But when did you know this first?" said Kitty, anxiously looking up into her tall cousin's face.

"Yes, when did you know it first?" repeated Mrs. Heron, with a weak and sighing attempt at
solemnity.

"I knew that I was the Luttrells' cousin all my life," said Elizabeth. There was a touch of
perversity in her answer.

"Yes--yes. But when did you know that you were the next heir--or heiress? You cannot have known
that all your life," said Mrs. Heron.

"I did not know that until a few days ago. I had a letter from a lawyer when Brian Luttrell
went abroad. Mr. Brian Luttrell wished him to communicate with me and to tell me----"

"Well?" said Mrs. Heron, curiously. "To tell you what?"

"That it was probable that the property would come to me," Elizabeth answered, for the first
time with some embarrassment, "as he did not intend to marry. And that he wished to settle
a certain sum upon me--in case I might be in want of money now."

"And that was a fortnight ago?" said Percival.

"Yes," said Elizabeth, without looking at him, "nearly a fortnight ago."

"This is very interesting," said Mrs. Heron, who was languidly brightening as she heard Elizabeth's
story and recognised the fact that substantial advantages were likely to accrue to the household
from Elizabeth's good fortune. "And of course you accepted the offer, Lizzie dear? But why
did you not tell us at once?"

"I waited until things should be settled. The matter might have fallen through. It did not
seem worth while to mention it until it was settled," said Elizabeth.

"How much did he offer you? Mr. Brian Luttrell must have been a very generous man."

"I think he was--very generous," said Elizabeth, looking up warmly. "I considered the matter
for some time, and I wished that I could accept his kindness, but----"

"You don't mean to say that you refused it?"

"I did not refuse it altogether," explained Elizabeth, her face glowing. "I told him my circumstances,
and all that my uncle had done for me, and that if he chose to place a sum of money at my uncle's
disposal--I thought that, perhaps, it would be only right, and that I ought not to place an
obstacle in the way. But I could not take anything for myself."

There was a little pause.

"Oh, Lizzie, how good you are!" cried Kitty, softly.

Percival took a step nearer; his face looked very dark.

"And, pray, what did the lawyer say to your proposition?" he inquired.

"He said he must communicate with Mr. Brian Luttrell, but he thought that there would be no
objection to it on his part," said Elizabeth. "But he had not time to do so, you see. Brian
Luttrell is dead. Here are all the letters about it, Aunt Isabel, if you want to see them.
I was going to speak to Uncle Alfred this very day."

"Well, Lizzie," said Mrs. Heron, taking the letters from her niece's hand, "I am glad that
we are honoured by your confidence at last. I think it would have been better, however, if
you had told us a little earlier of poor Mr. Luttrell's kindness, and then other people could
have managed the business for you. Of course, it would have been repugnant to your feelings
to accept money for yourself, and another person could have accepted it in your name with a
much better grace."

"But that is what I wanted to avoid," said Elizabeth, with a smile. "I would not have taken
one penny for myself from Mr. Brian Luttrell, but if he would have repaid my uncle for part
of what he has done for me----"

Her sentence came to an abrupt end. Percival had turned aside and flung himself into an arm-chair
near the fire. He was the picture of ill-humour; and something in his face took away from Elizabeth
the desire to say more. Mrs. Heron read the letters complacently, and Kitty put her arm round
her cousin's, waist and tried to draw her towards the hearth-rug for a gossip. But Elizabeth
preserved her position near Mrs. Heron's sofa, although she looked down at the girl with a smile.

"I know what Isabel meant--what we all meant," said Kitty, "when we were so disagreeable to
you a little time ago, Lizzie. We all felt that we could not for one moment have kept a secret
from you, and we resented your superior self-control. Fancy your knowing all this for the last
fortnight, and never saying a word about it! Tell me in confidence, Lizzie, now didn't you
want to whisper it to me, under solemn vows of secrecy?"

"I'm afraid you would never have kept your vows," said Elizabeth. "I meant to tell you very
soon, Kitty."

"And so you are a rich woman, Elizabeth!" observed Mrs. Heron, putting down the letters and
smoothing out her dress. "Dear me, how strangely things come round! Who would have dreamt,
ten years ago, that you would ever be richer than all of us--richer than your poor uncle, who
was then so kind to you! Some people are very fortunate!"

"Some people deserve to be fortunate, Isabel," said Kitty, caressing Elizabeth's hand, in order
to soften down the effect of Mrs. Heron's sub-acid speech. But Elizabeth did not seem to be
annoyed by it. She was thinking of other things.

"I am sure that if any one deserves it, Elizabeth does," said Mrs. Heron, recovering her usual
placidity of demeanour. "She has always been good and kind to everyone around her. I tremble
to think of what will become of dear Harry, and Will, and Jack."

"What should become of them?" said Kitty, in a startled tone.

"When Elizabeth leaves us"--Mrs. Heron murmured, applying her handkerchief to her eyes--"the
poor children will know the difference."

"But you won't leave us, will you, Elizabeth?" cried Kitty, clinging more closely to her cousin,
and looking up to her with tears in her eyes. "You wouldn't go away from us, after living with
us all these years, darling? Oh, I thought that you loved us as if you were really our own
sister, and that nothing would ever take you away!"

Still Elizabeth did not speak. Kitty's brown head rested on her shoulder, and she stroked it
gently with one hand. Her lips were very grave, but her eyes, as she raised them for a moment
to Percival's face, had a smile hidden in their hazel depths--a smile which he could not understand,
and which, therefore, made him angry. He rose and stood on the hearth-rug with his hands behind
him, as he delivered his little homily for Kitty's benefit.

"I suppose you do not expect that Elizabeth will care to sacrifice herself all her life for
us and the children," he said. "It would be as unreasonable of you to ask it as it would be
foolish of her to do it. Of course, she will now begin to enjoy the world a little. She has
had few enough enjoyments, hitherto--we need not grudge them to her now."

But one would have thought that he himself, grudged them to her considerably.

"What do you mean to do, Lizzie?" said Kitty, dolefully, "shall you take a house in town? or
will you go and live in Scotland--all that long, long way from us? And shall you"--lifting
her face rather wistfully--"shall you keep any horses and dogs?"

Elizabeth laughed; she could not help it, although her laugh brought an additional pucker to
the forehead of one of her hearers, who could not detect the tremulousness that lurked behind
the clear, ringing tones.

"It is well for you to laugh," he said, gloomily, "and, of course, you have the right, but----"

"How interesting it will be," Mrs. Heron's, pensive voice was understood to murmur, when Percival's
gruff speech had come to a sudden conclusion, "to notice the use dear Lizzie makes of her wealth!
I wonder what her income will be, and whether the Luttrells' kept up a large establishment."

"Oh," said Elizabeth, suddenly loosening herself from Kitty's arms and standing erect before
them with a face that paled and eyes that deepened with emotion, "does it not occur to you
through what trouble and misery this 'good fortune,' as you call it, has come to me? Does it
not seem wrong to you to plan what pleasure I can get out of it, when you think of that poor
mother sitting at home and mourning over her two sons--two young, strong men--dead in the very
prime of life? And Miss Vivian, too, with her spoiled life and her shattered hopes--she once
expected to be the mistress of the very house that they now call mine! I hate the thought of
it. Please never speak to me as if it were a matter for congratulation. I should be heartily
glad--heartily thankful--if Brian Luttrell were alive again!"

She sat down, and put her elbows on the table and her hands over her face. The others looked
at her in amaze. Percival turned to the fire and stared into it very hard. Mrs. Heron, who
was rather afraid of what she called "Elizabeth's high-flown moods," murmured a suggestion
to Kitty that she ought to go to the children, and glided languidly away, beckoning her step-daughter
to follow her.

Percival did not speak until Elizabeth raised her face, and then he was uncomfortably conscious
that she had been crying--at least, that her long eyelashes were wet, and that in other circumstances
he might have felt a desire to kiss the tears away. But this desire, if he had it, must now
be carefully controlled. He did not look at her, therefore, when he spoke.

"Your feeling is somewhat over-strained, Elizabeth. We are all sorry for the Luttrells' trouble;
but it is absurd to say that we must not be glad of your good fortune."

Elizabeth rose up with her eyes ablaze and her cheeks on fire.

"You know that you are not glad!" she said, almost passionately. "You know that you would rather
see me poor--see me the nursery-maid, the Cinderella, that you are so fond of calling me!"

"Well," said Percival, with a short laugh, "for my own sake, perhaps, I would."

"And so would I," said Elizabeth.

"But you know, Lizzie, you will get over that feeling in time. You will find pleasure in your
riches and your beauty; you will learn what enjoyment means--which you have had small chance
of finding out, hitherto, in this comfortable household!" He laughed rather bitterly. "You
are in the chrysalis state at present; you don't know what it is to be a butterfly. You will
like that better--in time."

"I will never be a butterfly--God helping me!" said Elizabeth. She spoke solemnly, with a noble
light in her whole face which made it more than beautiful. Percival turned away his eyes from
it; he did not dare to look. "If I have had wealth given me," said the girl, "I will use it
for worthy ends. Others shall benefit by it as well as myself."

"Don't squander it, Lizzie," said Percival, with a cynical smile, designed to cover the exceeding
sadness and soreness of his heart. "Your philanthropist is not often the wisest person in the
world."

"No, but I will try to use it wisely," she said, with a touch of meekness in her voice which
made him feel madly inclined to fall down and kiss the very hem of her garment--or rather the
lowest flounce of her shabby, dark-blue, serge gown--"and my friends will see that I do not
spend it foolishly. You do not think it would be foolish to use it for the good of others,
do you, Percival? I suppose I shall be thought very eccentric if I do not take a large house
in London, or go much into society; but, indeed, I should not be happy in spending money in
those ways----"

"Why, what on earth do you mean to do?" said Percival, sharply. "I see that you have some plan
in your head; I should just like to know what it is."

She was standing beside him on the hearth-rug, and she looked up at his face and down again
before she answered.

"Yes," she said, seriously, "I have a plan."

"And you mean that I have no right to inquire what it is? You are perfectly correct; I have
no right, and I beg your pardon for the liberty that I have taken. I think that I had better go."

His manner was so restless, his voice so uneven and so angry, that Elizabeth lifted her eyes
and studied his face a little before she replied.

"Percival," she said at last, "why are you so angry with me?"

"I'm not angry with you."

"With whom or with what, then?"

"With circumstances, I suppose. With life in general," he answered, bitterly, "when it sets
up such barriers between you and me."

"What barriers?"

"My dear Elizabeth, you used to have faculties above those of the rest of your sex. Don't let
your new position weaken them. I have surely not the least need to tell you what I mean."

"You overrate my faculties," said Elizabeth. "You always did. I never do know what you mean
unless you tell me. I am not good at guessing."

"You need not guess then; I'll tell you. Don't you see that I am in a very unfortunate position?
I said to you the other night that I--I loved you, that I would teach you to love me; and I
could have done it, Elizabeth! I am sure that you would have loved me in time."

"Well?" said Elizabeth, softly. Her lips were slightly tremulous, but they were smiling, too.

"Well!" repeated her cousin. "That's all. There's an end to it. Do you think I should ever
have breathed a word into your ear if I had known what I know now?"

"The fact being," said Elizabeth, "that your pride is so much stronger than your love, that
you would never tell a woman you loved her if she happened to have a few pounds more than you."

"Exactly so," he answered, stubbornly.

"Then--as a matter of argument only, Percival--I think you are wrong."

"Wrong, am I? Do you think that a man likes to take gifts from his wife's hands? Do you think
it is pleasant for me to hear you offer compensation to my father for the trifle that he has
spent on you during the last few years, and not to be in a position to render such an offering
unnecessary? I tell you it is the most galling thing in the world, and, if for one moment you
thought me capable of speaking to you as I did the other night, now that I know you to be a
wealthy woman, I could never look you in the face again. If I seem angry you must try to forgive
me; you know me of old--I am always detestable when I am in pain--as I am now."

He struck his foot angrily against the fender; his handsome face was drawn and lined with the
pain of which he spoke.

"Be patient, Percival," she said, with a smile which seemed to mock him by its very sweetness.
"As you say to me, you may think differently in time."

"And what if I do think differently? What good will it be?" he asked her. "I am not patient;
I am not resigned to my fate, and I never shall be; does it make the loss of my hopes any easier
to bear when you tell me that I shall think differently in time? You might as well try to make
a man with a broken leg forget his pain by telling him that in a hundred years' time he will
be dead and buried!"

The tears stood in her eyes. She seemed startled by the intense energy with which he spoke;
her next words scarcely rose above a whisper. "Percival," she said, "I don't like to see you
suffer."

"Then I will leave you," he said, sternly. "For, if I stay, I can't pretend that I do not feel
the pain of losing you."

He turned away, but before he had gone two steps a hand was placed upon his arm.

"I can't let you go in this way," she said. "Oh, Percival, you have always been good to me
till now. I can't begin a new life by giving you pain. Don't you understand what I want to say?"

He put his hand on her shoulder and looked into her face. The deep colour flushed his own,
but hers was white as snow, and she was trembling like a leaf.

"Do you love me, Elizabeth?" he said.

"I don't know," she answered, simply, "but I will marry you, Percival, if you like."

"That is not enough. Do you love me?"

"Too well," she answered, "to let you go."

And so he stayed.

CHAPTER XIII.

SAN STEFANO.

When the vines were stripped of their clusters, and the ploughed fields stood bare and brown
in the autumnal sun--when the fig trees lost their leaves, and their white branches took on
that peculiarly gaunt appearance which characterises them as soon as the wintry winds begin
to blow--a solitary traveller plodded wearily across the Lombardy plains, asking, as he went,
for the road that would lead him to the village and monastery of San Stefano.

He arrived at his destination on an evening late in November. It was between five and six o'clock
when he came to the little, white village, nestling in a cleft of the hills, with the monastery
on a slope behind it. There was a background of mountainous country--green, and grey, and purple--with
solemn, white heights behind, stretching far into the crystal clearness of the sky. As the
traveller reached the village he looked up to those white forms, and saw them transfigured
in the evening light. The sky behind them changed to rose colour, to purple, violet, even to
delicate pale green and golden, and, when the daylight had faded, an afterglow tinged the snowy
summit with a roseate flush more tenderly ethereal than the tint of an oleander blossom, as
transient as a gleam of April sunshine, or the changing light upon a summer sea. Then a dead
whiteness succeeded; the day was gone, and, quick as lightning, the stars began to quiver in
the blueness of the sky.

The lights in the cottage windows gleamed not inhospitably, but the traveller passed them by.
His errand was to the monastery of San Stefano, for there he fancied that he should find a
friend. He had no reason to feel sure about it, but he was in a mental region where reason
had little sway. He was governed by vague impulses and instincts which he did not care to controvert.
He was faint, footsore, and weary, but he would not pause until he had reached the monastery gates.

He rang the bell with a trembling hand. Its clangour startled him, and nearly made him fly
from the place. If he had been less weak at that moment he would have turned away; as it was,
he leaned against the high, white wall with an intolerable sense of discomfort and fatigue.
When the porter came and looked out, it took him several minutes to discern, through the gathering
darkness, the worn figure in waiting beside the gate.

"I have come a long distance," stammered the traveller, in answer to the porter's exclamation.
"I want rest and food. I was told by one of you--one who was called Brother Dino, I believe--that
you gave hospitality to travellers----"

"Come in, amico," said the porter, genially. "No explanations are needed when one comes to
San Stefano. So you know our Brother Dino, do you? He is here again now, after two or three
years in Paris. A fine scholar, they say, and a credit to the monastery. Come to the guest-room
and I will tell him that you are here."

To this monologue the stranger answered not a word. The porter had meanwhile allowed him to
enter, and fastened the gate once more. He then led the way up a garden path to a second door,
swinging his lantern and jingling his keys as he went. The traveller followed slowly; his battered
felt hat was drawn low over his forehead, his garments, torn and travel-stained, gave the porter
an impression that his pockets were not too well filled, and that he might even be glad of
a little employment on the farm which the Brothers of San Stefano were so successful in cultivating.
His tone was nonetheless cheery and polite as he ushered the stranger into a long panelled
room, where a single oil-lamp threw a vague, uncertain light upon the tessellated floor and
plain oak furniture.

"You would like some polenta?" he said, as the wearied man sank into one of the wooden chairs
with an air of complete exhaustion. "Or some of our good red wine? I will see about it directly.
The signor can repose here until I return; I will fetch one of the Reverend Fathers by-and-bye,
but they are all at Benediction at this moment."

"I want to see Brother Dino," said the stranger, lifting his head. And then the porter changed
his mind about the station of the visitor.

That slightly imperious tone, the impatient glance of the dark eye, the unmistakably foreign
accent, convinced him that he had to do with one of the tourists--English or American signori--who
occasionally paid a visit to San Stefano. The porter himself was a lay-brother, and prided
himself on his knowledge of the world. He answered courteously that Brother Dino should be
informed, and then withdrew to provide the refreshment of which the stranger evidently stood
in need.

Brother Dino was not long in coming. He entered quickly, with a look of subdued expectation
upon his face. A flash of joy and recognition leaped into his eyes as he beheld the wayworn
figure in one of the antique carved oak chairs. His hands, which had been crossed and hidden
in the wide sleeves of the habit that he wore, went out to the stranger with a gesture of welcome
and delight.

"Mr. Luttrell!" he exclaimed. "You are here already at San Stefano! We shall welcome you warmly,
Mr. Luttrell!"

The name seemed wonderfully familiar to his tongue. Brian, who had risen, held out his hands
also, and the young monk caught them in his own; but Brian's gesture was an involuntary one,
conveying more of apprehension than of greeting.

"Not that name," he said, breathlessly. "Call me by any other that you please, but not that.
Brian Luttrell is dead."

Brother Dino shivered slightly, as if a cold breath of air had passed through the ill-lighted
room, but he held Brian's hands with a still warmer pressure, and looked steadily into his
haggard, hollow eyes.

"What shall I call you, then, my brother?" he said, gently.

"I have thought of a name," replied Brian, in curiously uncertain, faltering tones; "it will
harm nobody to take it, because he is dead, too. Remember, my name is Stretton--John Stretton,
an Englishman--and a beggar."

Therewith he loosed his hands from Brother Dino's clasp, uttered a short laugh--it was a moan
rather than a laugh, however--and fell like a stone into the Italian's arms. Dino supported
him for a moment, then laid him flat upon the floor, and was about to summon help, when, turning,
he came face to face with the Prior, Padre Cristoforo.

Thirteen years had passed since Padre Cristoforo brought the friendless boy from Turin to the
monastery amongst the pleasant hills. Those thirteen years had apparently transformed the smiling,
graceful lad into a pale, grave-faced, young monk, whose every word and action seemed to be
subordinated to the authority of the ecclesiastics with whom he lived. Time had thrown into
strong relief the keenly intellectual contour of his head and face; it had hollowed his temples
and tempered the ardour of those young, brave eyes; but there was more beauty of outline and
sweetness of expression than had been visible even in the charming boyish face that had won
all hearts when he came to San Stefano at ten years old.

Thirteen years had changed Father Cristoforo but little. His tonsured head showed a fringe
of greyer hairs, and his face was a little more blanched and wrinkled than it used to be; but
the bland smile, the polished manner, the look of profound sagacity, were all the same. He
gave one glance to Dino, one glance to the prostrate form upon the floor, and took in the situation
without a moment's delay.

"Fetch Father Paolo," he said, after inspecting Brian's face and lifting his nerveless hand;
"and return with him yourself. We may want you."

Father Paolo, the monk who took charge of the infirmary, soon arrived, and gave it as his opinion
that the stranger was suffering from no ordinary fainting-fit, but from an affection of the
brain. A bed was prepared for him in the infirmary, and a lay-brother appointed to attend upon
him. Brian Luttrell could not have fallen ill in a place where he would receive more tender care.

It was not until the sick man was laid in his bed that Father Cristoforo spoke again to Dino,
who was standing a little behind him, holding a lamp. The rays of light fell full upon Brian's
death-like face, and on the black and white crucifix that hung above his bed on the yellow
wall. Dino's face was in deep shadow when the Prior turned and addressed him.

"What was he saying when I came in? That his name was John--John----"

"John Stretton, an Englishman," answered Dino, in an unmoved voice. "An Englishman and a beggar."

Padre Christoforo did an unusual thing. He took the lamp from Brother Dino's hand and threw
the light suddenly upon the young man's impassive countenance. Dino raised his great, serious
eyes to the Prior's face, and then dropped them to the ground. Otherwise not a muscle of his
face moved. He was the living image of submission.

"Have you seen him before?" said Padre Cristoforo.

"Twice, Reverend Father. Once on the boat between Cologne and Mainz; and once, for a moment
only, in the quadrangle of the Cathedral at Mainz."

"And then did he bear his present name?"

For a moment Dino's mouth twitched uneasily. A faint colour crept into his cheeks. "Reverend
Father," he said, hesitatingly, "I did not ask his name."

The priest raised the lamp to the level of his head, and again looked penetratingly into his
pupil's face. There was a touch of wonder, of pity, perhaps also of some displeasure, expressed
in this fixed gaze. It lasted so long that Dino turned a little pale, although he did not flinch
beneath it. Finally, the Prior lowered the lamp, gave it back to him, and walked away in silence,
with his head lowered and his hands behind his back. Dino followed to light him down the dark
corridors, and at the door of the Prior's cell, fell on his knees, as the custom was in the
monastery, to receive the Prior's blessing. But, either from forgetfulness or some other reason
which passed unexplained, Padre Cristoforo entered and closed the door behind him, without
noticing the young man's kneeling figure. It was the first time such an omission had occurred
since Dino came to San Stefano. Was it merely an omission and not a punishment? Dino had, for
the first time in his life, evaded a plain answer to a question, and concealed from Padre Cristoforo
something which Padre Cristoforo would certainly have thought that he ought to know. Had Padre
Cristoforo divined the truth?

According to the notions current amongst Italians, and particularly amongst many members of
their church, Dino felt himself justified in equivocating in a case where absolute truth would
not have served his purpose. His conscience did not reproach him for want of truthfulness,
but it did for want of confidence in Padre Cristoforo. For he loved Padre Cristoforo; and Padre
Cristoforo loved him.

Brian Luttrell's illness was a long and severe one. He lay insensible for some time, and awoke
to wild delirium, which lasted for many days. The Brothers of San Stefano nursed him with the
greatest care, and it was observable that the Prior himself spent a good deal of time in the
patient's room, and showed unusual interest in his progress towards recovery. The Prior understood
English; but if he had hoped to gather any information concerning Brian's history from the
ravings of his delirium he was mistaken. Brian's mind ran upon the incidents of his childhood,
upon the tour that he had made with his father when he was a boy, upon his school-days; not
upon the sad and tragic events with which he had been connected. He scarcely ever mentioned
the names of his mother or brother. Like Falstaff, when he lay a-dying, be "babbled of green
fields," and nothing more.

At one time he grew better: then he had a relapse, and was very near death indeed; but at last
the power of youth re-asserted itself, and he came slowly back to life once more. But it was
as a man who had been in another world; who had faced the bitterness of death and the darkness
of the grave.

He was as much startled when he looked at himself for the first time in a looking-glass as
a girl who has lost her beauty after a virulent attack of small-pox. Not that he had ever had
much beauty to boast of; but the look of youth and hope which had once brightened his eyes
was gone; his cheeks were sunken, his temples hollow, his features drawn and pinched with bodily
pain and weakness. And--greatest change perhaps of all--his hair had turned from brown to grey;
an alteration so striking and visible that, as he put down the little mirror which had been
brought to him, he murmured to himself, with a bitter smile--"My own mother would not know
me now." And then he turned his face away from the light, and lay silent and motionless for
so long a space of time that the lay-brother who waited on him thought that he was sleeping.

When he rose from his bed and was able to sit in the sunny garden or the cloisters, spring
had come in all its tender glow of beauty, and sent a thrill of fresh life through the sick
man's veins.

Nature had always been dear to Brian. He loved the sights and sounds of country life. The hills,
the waving trees, tranquil skies and running water calmed and refreshed his jaded brain and
harrassed nerves. The broad fields, crimsoning with anemones, purpling with hyacinth and auricula;
the fresh green of the fig trees, the lovely tendrils of the newly shooting vines even the
sight of the oxen with their patient eyes, and the homely, feathered creatures of the farmyard,
clucking and strutting at the sandalled feet of the black-robed, silent, lay-brothers who brought
them food--all these things acted like an anodyne upon Brian's stricken heart. There was a
life beside that of feeling; a life of passive, peaceful repose; the life of "stocks and stones,"
and happy, unresponsive things, amidst which he could learn to bear his burden patiently.

He saw little of Dino during his illness; but, as soon as he was able to go into the garden,
Dino was permitted to accompany him. It was plain from his manner that no unwillingness on
his own part kept him away. The English stranger had evidently a great attraction for him;
he waited upon his movements and followed him, silently and affectionately, like a dog whose
whole heart has been given to its master. Brian felt the charm of this devotion, but was too
weak to speculate concerning its cause. He was conscious of the same kind of attraction towards
Dino; he knew not why, but he found it pleasant to have Dino at his side, to lean on his arm
as they went down the garden path together, to listen to the young Italian's musical accents
as he read aloud at the evening hour. But what was the secret of that indefinable mutual attraction,
that almost magnetic power, which one seemed to possess over the other, Brian Luttrell could
not tell. Perhaps Dino knew.

This friendship did not pass unobserved. It was quietly, gently, fostered by the Prior, whose
keen eyes were everywhere, and seemed to see everything at once. He it was who dispensed Dino
from his usual duties that he might attend upon the English guest, who smiled benignly when
he met them together in the cloister, who dropped a word or two expressive of his pleasure
that Dino should have an opportunity of practising his knowledge of the English tongue. Dino
could speak English with tolerable fluency, although with a strong foreign accent.

But the quiet state of affairs did not last very long. As Brian's strength returned he grew
restless and uneasy; and at length one day he sent a formal request to the Prior that he might
speak to him alone. Padre Cristoforo replied by coming at once to the guest-chamber, which
Brian occupied in the daytime, and by asking in his usual mild and kindly way what he could
do for him.

The guest-room was a bare enough place, but the window commanded a fine view of the wide plain
on which the monastery looked down. The blinds were open, for the morning was deliciously cool,
and the shadows of the leaves that clustered round the lattice played in the glow of sunshine
on the floor. Brian was standing as the Prior entered the room; his wasted figure, worn face,
and grey hairs made him a striking sight in that abode of peace and solitary quietness. It
was as though some unquiet visitant from another world had strayed into an Italian Arcadia.
But, as a matter of fact, Brian was probably less worldly in thought and aspiration at that
moment than the serene-browed priest who stood before him and looked him in the face with such
benignant friendly, interest.

"You wished to see me, my son?" he began, gently.

"I am ashamed to trouble you," said Brian. "But I felt that I ought to speak to you as soon
as possible. I am growing strong enough to continue my journey--and I must not trespass on
your hospitality any longer."

"Your strength is not very great as yet," said the Prior, courteously. "Pray take a seat, Mr.
Stretton. We are only too pleased to keep you with us as long as you will do us the honour
to remain, and I think it is decidedly against your own interests to travel at present."

Brian stammered out an acknowledgment of the Prior's kindness. He was evidently embarrassed,
even painfully so; and Padre Cristoforo found himself watching the young man with some surprise
and curiosity. What was it that troubled this young Englishman?

Brian at last uttered the words that he had wished to say.

"If I remained here," he said, colouring vividly with a sensitiveness springing from the reduced
physical condition to which he had been brought by his long illness; "if I remained here I
should ask you whether I could do any work for you--whether I could teach any of your pupils
English or music. I am a poor man; I have no prospects. I would as soon live in Italy as in
England--at any rate for a time."

The Prior looked at him steadily; his deeply-veined hand grasped the arm of his wooden chair,
a slight flush rose to his forehead. It was in a perfectly calm and unconstrained voice, however,
that he made answer.

"It is quite possible that we might find work of the kind you mention, signor--if you require it."

There was a subdued accent of inquiry in the last four words. Brian laughed a little, and put
his hand in his pocket, whence he drew out four gold pieces and a few little Swiss and Italian
coins.

"You see these, Father?" he said, holding them out in the palm of his hand. "They constitute
my fortune, and they are due to the institution that has sheltered me so kindly and nursed
me back to life and health. I have vowed these coins to your alms-box; when they are given,
I shall make a fresh start in the world--as the architect of my own fortunes."

"You will then be penniless!" said the priest, in rather a curious tone.

"Entirely so."

There was a short silence. Brian's fingers played idly with the coins, but he was not thinking
about them; his dreamy eyes revealed that his thoughts were very far away. Padre Cristoforo
was biting his forefinger and knitting his brows--two signs of unusual perturbation of mind
with him. Presently, however, his brow cleared; he smoothed his gown over his knees two or
three times, coughed once or twice, and then addressed himself to Brian with all his accustomed
urbanity.

"Our Order is a rich one," he said, with a smile, "and one that can well afford to entertain
strangers. I will not tell you to make no gifts, for we know that it is very blessed to give--more
blessed than to receive. I think it quite possible that we can give you such work as you desire.
But before I do so, I think I am justified in asking you with what object you take it?"

"With what object? A very simple one--to earn my daily bread."

"And why," said the priest leaning forward and speaking in a lower voice--"why should your
father's son need to earn his daily bread in a little Italian village?"

Again Brian's face changed colour.

"My father's son?" he repeated, vaguely. The coins fell to the ground; he sat up and looked
at the Prior suspiciously. "What do you know about my father?" he said. "What do you know about
me?"

The Prior pushed back his chair. A little smile played upon his shrewd, yet kindly face. The
Englishman was easier to manage than he had expected to find him, and Father Cristoforo was
unquestionably relieved in his mind.

"I do not know much about you," he said, "but I have reason to believe that your name is not
Stretton--that you were recently travelling under the name of Brian Luttrell, and that you
have a special interest in the village of San Stefano. Is that not true, my friend?"

"Yes," said Brian slowly. "It is true."

CHAPTER XIV.

THE PRIOR'S OPINION.

The Prior's face wore an expression of mild triumph. He was evidently prepared to be questioned,
and was somewhat surprised when Brian turned to him gravely and addressed him in cold and serious
tones.

"Reverend Father," he said, "I am ignorant of the way in which you have possessed yourself
of my secret, but, before a word more is spoken, let me tell you at once that it is a secret
which must be kept strictly and sacredly between ourselves, unless great trouble is to ensue.
It is absolutely necessary now that Brian Luttrell should be--dead."

"What has Brian Luttrell done," asked the Prior, "that he should be ashamed of his own name?"

"Ashamed!" said Brian, haughtily; "I never for one moment said that I was ashamed of it; but----"

He turned in his chair and looked out of the window. A new thought occurred to him. Probably
Padre Cristoforo knew the history of every one who had lived in San Stefano during the last
few years. Perhaps he might assist Brian in his search for the truth. At any rate, as Padre
Cristoforo already knew his name, it would do nobody any harm if he confided in him a little
further, and told him something of the story which Mrs. Luttrell had told to him.

Meanwhile, Padre Cristoforo watched him keenly as a cat watches a mouse, though without the
malice of a cat. The Prior wished Brian no harm. But, for the good of his Order, he wished
very much that he could lay hands, either through Brian or through Dino, upon that fine estate
of which he had dreamt for the last thirteen years.

"Father Cristoforo," Brian's haggard, dark eyes looked anxiously into the priest's subtilely
twinkling orbs, "will you tell me how you learnt my true name?"

He could not bear to cast a doubt upon Dino's good faith, and the Prior divined his reason
for the question.

"Rest assured, my dear sir, that I learnt it accidentally," he said, with a soothing smile.
"I happened to be entering the door when our young friend Dino recognised you. I heard you
tell him to call you by the name of Stretton; I also heard you say that Brian Luttrell was dead."

"Ah!" sighed Brian, scarcely above his breath. "I thought that Dino could not have betrayed me."

He did not mean the Prior to hear his words; but they were heard and understood. "Signor,"
said the Padre, with an inflection of hurt feeling in his voice, "Mr. Stretton, or Mr. Luttrell,
however you choose to term yourself, Dino is a man of honour, and will never betray a trust
reposed in him. I could answer for Dino with my very life."

"I know--I was sure of it!" cried Brian.

"But, signor, do you think it is right or wise to imperil the future and the reputation of
a young man like Dino--without friends, without home, without a name, entirely dependent upon
us and our provision for him--by making him the depository of secrets which he keeps against
his conscience and against the rule of the Order in which he lives? Brother Dino has told me
nothing; he even evaded a question which he thought that you would not wish him to answer;
but, he has acted wrongly, and will suffer if he is led into further concealment. Need I say more?"

"He shall not suffer through me," said Brian, impetuously. "I ought to have known better. But
I was not myself; I don't remember what I said. I was surprised and relieved when I came to
myself and found you all calling me Mr. Stretton. I never thought of laying any burden upon Dino."

"You will do well, then," said the Prior, approvingly, "if you do not speak of the matter to
him at all. He is bound to mention it if questioned, and I presume you do not want to make
it known."

"No, I do not. But I thought that he was bound only to mention matters that concerned himself;
not those of other people," said Brian, with more hardihood than the priest had expected of him.

Padre Cristoforo smiled, and made a little motion with his hand, as much as to say that there
were many things which an Englishman and a heretic could not be expected to know. "Dino is
in a state of pupilage," he said, slightly, finding that Brian seemed to expect an answer;
"the rules which bind him are very strict. But--if you will allow me to advert once more to
your proposed change of name and residence--I suppose that it is not indiscreet to remark that
your friends in England--or Scotland--will doubtless be anxious about your place of abode at
present?"

"I do not think so," said Brian, in a low tone. "I believe that they think me dead."

"Why so?"

"Perhaps you did not hear in your quiet monastery, Father, of a party of travellers who perished
in an avalanche last November? Two guides, a porter, and an Englishman, whose body was never
recovered. I was that Englishman."

"I heard of the accident," said Padre Cristoforo, briefly, nodding his head. "So you escaped,
signor? You must have had strong limbs and stout sinews--or else you must have been attended
by some special providential care--to escape, when those three skilled mountaineers were lost
on the mountain side."

"On ne meurt pas quand la mort est la délivrance," quoted Brian, with a bitter laugh. "You
may be quite sure that if I had been at the height of felicity and good fortune, it would have
needed but a false step, or a slight chill, or a stray shot--a stray shot! oh, my God! If only
some stray shot had come to me--not to my brother--my brother----"

They were the first tears that he had shed since the beginning of his illness. The sudden memory
of his brother's fate proved too much for him in his present state of bodily weakness. He bowed
his head on his hands and wept.

A curiously soft expression stole into the Prior's face. He looked at Brian once or twice and
seemed as if he wished to say some pitying word, but, in point of fact, no word of consolation
occurred to him. He was very sorry for Brian, whose story was perfectly familiar to him; but
he knew very well that Brian's grief was not one to which words could bring comfort. He waited
silently, therefore, until the mood had passed, and the young man lifted up his heavy eyes
and quivering lips with a faint attempt at a smile, which was sadder than those passionate
sobs had been.

"I must ask pardon," he said, somewhat confusedly. "I did not know that I was so weak. I will
go to my room."

"Let me delay you for one moment," said the Prior, confronting him with kindly authority. "It
has needed little penetration, signor, to discover that you have lately passed through some
great sorrow; I am now more sure of it than ever. I would not intrude upon your confidence,
but I ask you to remember that I wish to be your friend--that there are reasons why I should
take a special interest in you and your family, and that, humble as I am, I may be of use to
you and yours."

Brian stopped short and looked at him. "Me and mine!" he repeated to himself. "Me and mine!
What do you know of us?"

"I will be frank with you," said the priest. "Thirteen years ago a document of a rather remarkable
nature was placed in my hands affecting the Luttrell family. In this paper the writer declared
that she, as the nurse of Mrs. Luttrell's children, had substituted her own child for a boy
called Brian Luttrell, and had carried off the true Brian to her mother, a woman named Assunta
Naldi. The nurse, Vincenza, died and left this paper in the hands of her mother, who, after
much hesitation, confided the secret to me."

Brian took a step nearer to the Prior. "What right have you had to keep this matter secret
so long?" he demanded.

"Say, rather, what right had I to disturb an honourable family with an assertion that is incapable
of proof?"

"Then why did you tell me now?"

"Because you know it already."

Brian seated himself and leaned back in his chair, with his eyes still fixed upon the Prior's face.

"Why do you think that I know it?" he said.

"Because," said Padre Cristoforo, raising his long forefinger, and emphasising every fresh
point with a convincing jerk, "because you have come to San Stefano. You would never have come
here unless you wanted to find out the truth. Because you have changed your name. You would
have had no reason to abandon the name of Luttrell unless you were not sure of your right to
bear it. Because you spoke of Vincenza in your delirium. Do I need more proofs?"

There was another proof which he did not mention. He had found Mrs. Luttrell's letter to Brian
amongst the sick man's clothes, and had carefully perused it before locking it up with the
rest of the stranger's possessions. It was characteristic of the man that, during the last
few years, he had set himself steadily to work to master the English language by the aid of
every English book or English-speaking traveller that came in his way. He had succeeded wonderfully
well, and no one but himself knew for what purpose that arduous task had been undertaken. He
found his accomplishment useful; he had thought it particularly useful when he read Mrs. Luttrell's
letter. But naturally he did not say so to Brian.

"You are right," said Brian, in a low voice. "But you say it is incapable of proof. She--my
mother--I mean Mrs. Luttrell--says so, too."

"If it were capable of proof," said the Prior, softly, "should you contest the matter?"

"Yes," Brian answered, with an angry flash of his eyes, "if I had been in England, and any
such claimant appeared, I would have fought the ground to the last inch! Not for the sake of
the estates--I have given those up easily enough--but for my father's sake. I would not lightly
give up my claim to call him father; he never doubted once that I was his son."

"He never doubted?"

"I am sure he never did."

"But Mrs. Luttrell----"

"God help me, yes! But she thinks also that I meant to take my brother's life."

It needed but a few words of inquiry to lead Brian to tell the story of his brother's death.
The Prior knew it well enough; he had made it his business to ascertain the history of the
Luttrell family during the past few years; but he listened with the gentle and sympathetic
interest which had often given him so strong a hold over men's hearts and lives. He was a master
in the art of influencing younger men; he had the subtle instinct which told him exactly what
to say and how far to go, when to speak and when to be silent; and Brian, with no motive for
concealment, now that his name was once known, was like a child in the Prior's hands.

In return for his confidence, Padre Cristoforo told him the substance of his interview with
old Assunta, and of the confession written by Vincenza. But when Brian asked to see this paper
the Prior shook his head.

"I have not got it here," he said. "It was certainly preserved, by the desire of some in authority,
but it was not thought to afford sufficient testimony."

"What was wanting?"

"I cannot tell you precisely what was wanting; but, amongst other matters, there is the fact
that this Vincenza made a directly opposite statement, which counterbalances this one."

"Then you have two written statements, contradicting each other? You might as well throw them
both into the fire," said Brian, with some irritation. "Who is the 'authority' who preserves
them? Can I not present myself to him and demand a sight of the documents?"

"Under what name, and for what reason, would you ask to see them?"

Brian winced; he had for the moment forgotten what his own hand had done.

"I could still prove my identity," he said, looking down. "But, no; I will not. I did not lose
myself upon the mountain-side because of this mystery about my birth, but because I wanted
to escape my mother's reproaches and the burden of Richard's inheritance. Nothing will induce
me to go back to Scotland. To all intents and purposes, I am dead."

"Then," said the Prior, "since that is your resolution--your wise resolution, let me say--I
will tell you frankly what my reading of the riddle has been, and what, I think, Vincenza did.
It is my belief that Mrs. Luttrell's child died, and was buried under the name of Vincenza's
child."

"You, too, then--you believe that I am not a Luttrell?"

"If the truth could ever be ascertained, which I do not think it will be, I believe that this
would turn out to be the case. The key of the whole matter lies in the fact that Vincenza had
twins. One of these children was sent to the grandmother in the country; one was nursed in
the village of San Stefano. A fever had broken out in the village, and Vincenza's charge--the
little Brian Luttrell--died. She immediately changed the dead child for her own, being wishful
to escape the blame of carelessness, and retain her place; also to gain for her own child the
advantages of wealth and position. The two boys, who have now grown to manhood, are brothers;
children, of one mother; and Brian Luttrell--a baby boy of some four months old--sleeps, as
his mother declares, in the graveyard of San Stefano."

"Why did the nurse confess only a half-truth, then?"

"She wanted to get absolution; and yet she did not want to injure the prospects of her child,
I suppose. At the worst, she thought that one boy would be substituted for another. The woman
was foolish--and wicked," said the Prior, with a grain of impatient contempt in his tone; "and
the more foolish that she did not observe that she was outwitting herself--trying to cheat
God as well as man."

"Then--you think--that I----"

"That you are the son of an Italian gardener and his wife. Courage, my son; it might have been
worse. But I know nothing positively; I have constructed a theory out of Vincenza's self-contradictions;
it may be true; it may be false. Of one thing I would remind you; that as you have given up
your position in England and Scotland, you have no responsibility in the matter. You have done
exactly what the law would have required you to do had it been proved that you were Vincenza's
son."

"But the other child--the boy who was sent to his grandmother? What became of him?"

The Prior looked at him in silence for a little time before he spoke. "How do you feel towards
him?" he said, finally. "Are you prepared to treat him as a brother or not?"

Brian averted his face. "I have had but one brother," he said, shortly. "I cannot expect to
find another--especially when I am not sure that he is of my blood or I of his."

"In any case he is your foster-brother. I should like you to meet him."

"Does he know the story?"

"He does."

"And is prepared to welcome me as a brother?" said Brian, with a bitter but agitated laugh.
"Where is he? I will see him if you like."

He had risen to his feet, and stood with his arms crossed, his brow knitted, his mouth firmly
set. There was something hard in his face, something defiant in his attitude, which caused
the Prior to add a word of remonstrance. "It is not his fault," he said, "any more than it
is yours. You need not be enemies; it is my object to make you friends."

"Let me see him," repeated Brian gloomily. "I do not wish to be his enemy. I do not promise
to be his friend." |

"I will send him to you," said the Prior. "Wait here till he comes."

He left Brian alone; and the young man, thinking it likely that | he would be undisturbed for
sometime to come, bent his face upon his hands, and tried to [missing word] his position. The
strange tangle of circumstances in which he found himself involved would never be easy of adjustment;
he wished with all his heart that he had refused the Prior's offer to make his foster-brother
known to him, but it was too late now. Was it too late? Could he not send for Padre Cristoforo,
and beg him to leave the Italian peasant in his own quiet home, ignorant of Brian's visit to
the place where he was born? He would do it; and then he would leave San Stefano for ever;
it was not yet too late.

He lifted up his head and rose to his feet. He was not alone in the room. To his surprise he
saw before him his friend, Dino.

"You have come from Padre Cristoforo, have you?" said Brian, quickly and impetuously. He took
no notice of the young man's manifest agitation and discomfort, which would have been clear
to anybody less pre-occupied than Brian, at that moment. "Tell him from me that there is no
need for me to see the man that he spoke of--that I do not wish to meet him. He will understand
what I mean."

A change, like that produced by a sudden electric shock, passed over Dino's face. His hands
fell to his sides. They had been outstretched before, as if in greeting.

"You do not want to see him?" he repeated.

"I will not see him," said Brian, harshly, almost violently. "Weak as I am, I'll go straight
out of the house and village sooner than meet him. Why does he want to see me? I have nothing
to give him now."

Long afterwards he remembered the look on Dino's face. Pain, regret, yearning affection, seemed
to struggle for the mastery; his eyes were filled with tears, his lips were pale. But he said
nothing. He went away from the room, and took the message that had been given him to the Prior.

Brian felt that he had perhaps been selfish, but he consoled himself with the thought that
the peasant lad would gain nothing by a meeting with him, and that such an embarrassing interview,
as it must necessarily be, would be a pain to them both.

But he did not know that the foster-brother (brother or foster-brother, which could it be?)
was sobbing on the floor of the Prior's cell, in a passion of vehement grief at Brian's rejection
of Padre Cristoforo's proposition. He would scarcely have understood that grief if he had seen
it. He would have found it difficult to realise that the boy, Dino, had grown from childhood
with a strong but suppressed belief in his mother's strange story, and yet, that, as soon as
he saw Brian Luttrell, his heart had gone out to him with the passionate tenderness that he
had waited all his life to bestow upon a brother.

"Take it not so much to heart, Dino," said the Prior, looking down at him compassionately.
"It was not to be expected that he would welcome the news. Thou art a fool, little one, to
grieve over his coldness. Come, these are a girl's tears, and thou should'st be a man by now."

The words were caressingly spoken, but they failed of their effect. Dino did not look up.

"For one reason," said the Prior, in a colder tone, half to himself and half to the novice,
"I am glad that he has not seen you. Your course will, perhaps, be the easier. Because, Dino,
although I may believe my theory to be the correct one, and that you and our guest are both
the children of Vincenza Vasari, yet it is a theory which is as difficult to prove as any other;
and our good friend, the Cardinal, who was here last week, you know, chooses to take the other
view."

"What other view, Reverend Father?" said Dino.

"The view that you are, indeed, Brian Luttrell, and not Vincenza's son."

"But--you said--that it was impossible to prove----"

"I think so, my dear son. But the Cardinal does not agree with me. We shall hear from him further.
I believe it is the general opinion at Rome that you ought to be sent to Scotland in order
to claim your position and the Luttrell estates. The case might at any rate be tried."

Dino rose now, pale and trembling.

"I do not want a position. I do not want to claim anything. I want to be a monk," he said.

"You are not a monk yet," returned the Prior, calmly. "And it may not be your vocation to take
the vows upon you. Now, do you see why you have been prevented from taking them hitherto? You
may be called upon to act as a layman: to claim the estates, fight the battle with these Scotch
heretics and come back to us a wealthy man! And in that case, you will act as a pious layman
should do, and devote a portion of your wealth to Holy Church. But I do not say you would be
successful; I think myself that you have little chance of success. Only let us feel that you
are our obedient child, as you used to be."

"I will do anything you wish," cried Dino, passionately, "so long as I bring no unhappiness
upon others. I do not wish to be rich at Brian's expense."

"He has renounced his birthright," said the Prior. "You will not have to fight him, my tender-hearted
Dino. You will have a much harder foe--a woman. The estate has passed into the hands of a Miss
Elizabeth Murray."

CHAPTER XV.

THE VILLA VENTURI.

An elderly English artist, with carefully-trimmed grey hair, a gold-rimmed eye-glass, and a
velvet coat which was a little too hot as well as a little too picturesque for the occasion,
had got into difficulties with his sketching apparatus on the banks of a lovely little river
in North Italy. He had been followed for some distance by several children, who had never once
ceased to whine for alms; and he had tried all arts in the hope of getting rid of them, and
all in vain. He had thrown small coins to them; they had picked them up and clamoured only
the more loudly; he had threatened them with his sketching umbrella, whereat they had screamed
and run away, only to return in the space of five seconds with derisive laughter and hands
outstretched more greedily than ever. When he reached the spot where he intended to make a
sketch, his tormentors felt that they had him at their mercy. They swarmed round him, they
peeped under his umbrella, they even threw one or two small stones at his back; and when, in
desperation, their victim sprang up and turned upon them, they made a wild dash at his umbrella,
which sent it into the stream, far beyond the worthy artist's reach. Then they took to their
heels, leaving the good man to contemplate wofully the fate of his umbrella. It had drifted
to the middle of the stream, had there been caught by a stone and a tuft of weed, and seemed
destined to complete destruction. He tried to arrest its course, but could not reach it, and
nearly over-balanced himself in the attempt; then he sat down upon the bank and gave vent to
an ejaculation of mild impatience--"Oh, dear, dear, dear me! I wish Elizabeth were here."

It was so small a catastrophe, after all, and yet it called up a look of each unmistakable
vexation to that naturally tranquil and abstracted countenance, that a spectator of the scene
repressed a smile which had risen to his lips and came to the rescue.

"Can I be of any assistance to you, sir?" he said.

The artist gave a violent start. He had not previously seen the speaker, who had been lying
on the grass at a few yards' distance, screened from sight by an intervening clump of brushwood.
He came forward and stood by the water, looking at the opened umbrella.

"I think I could get it," he said. "The water is very shallow."

"But--my dear sir--pray do not trouble yourself; it is entirely unnecessary. I do not wish
to give the slightest inconvenience," stammered the Englishman, secretly relieved, but very
much embarrassed at the same time. "Pray, be careful--it's very wet. Good Heaven!" The last
exclamation was caused by the fact that the new-comer had calmly divested himself of his boots
and socks and was stepping into the water. "Indeed, it's scarcely worth the trouble that you
are taking."

"It is not much trouble to wade for a minute or two in this deliciously cool water," said the
stranger, with a smile, as he returned from his expedition, umbrella in hand. "There, I think
you will find it uninjured. It's a wonder that it was not broken. You would have been inconvenienced
without it on this hot day."

He raised his hat slightly as he spoke and moved away. The artist received another shock. This
young man--for he moved with the strength and lightness of one still young, and his face was
a young face, too--this young man had grey hair--perfectly grey. There was not a black thread
amongst it. For one moment the artist was so much astonished that he nearly forgot to thank
the stranger for the service that he had rendered him.

"One moment," he said, hurriedly. "Pray allow me to thank you. I am very much obliged to you.
You don't know how great a service you have done me. If I can be of any use to you in any way----"

"It was a very trifling service," said the young man, courteously. "I wish it had been my good
fortune to do you a greater one. This was nothing."

"Foreign!" murmured the artist to himself, as the stranger returned to his lair behind the
thicket, where he seemed to be occupying himself in putting on his socks and boots once more.
"No Englishman would have answered in that way. I wish he had not disappeared so quickly. I
should like to have made a sketch of his head. Hum! I shall not sketch much to-day, I fancy."

He shut up his paint-box with an air of resolution, and walked leisurely to the spot where
the young man was completing his toilet. "I ought perhaps to explain," he began, with an air
which he fancied was Machiavellian in its simplicity, "that the loss of that umbrella would
have been a serious matter to me. It might have entailed another and more serious loss--the
loss of my liberty."

The young man looked up with a puzzled and slightly doubtful expression. "I beg your pardon,"
he said. "The loss of----"

"The loss of my liberty," said the Englishman, in a louder and rather triumphant tone of voice.
"The fact is, my dear sir, that I have a very tender and careful wife, and an equally tender
and careful daughter and niece, who have so little confidence in my power of caring for my
own safety that they have at various times threatened to accompany me in all my sketching expeditions.
Now, if I came home to them and confessed that I had been attacked by a troop of savage Italian
children, who tossed my umbrella into the river, do you think I should ever be allowed to venture
out alone again?"

The young man smiled, with a look of comprehension.

"Can I be of any further use to you?" he said. "Can I walk back to the town with you, or carry
any of your things?"

"You can be of very great use to me, indeed," said the gentleman, opening his sketch-book in
a great hurry, and then producing a card from some concealed pocket in his velvet coat. "I'm
an artist--allow me to introduce myself--my name is Heron; you would be of the very greatest
use to me if you would allow me to--to make a sketch of your head for a picture that I am doing
just now. It is the very thing--if you will excuse the liberty that I am taking----"

He had his pencil ready, but he faltered a little as he saw the sudden change which came over
his new acquaintance's face at the sound of his proposition. The young man flushed to his temples,
and then turned suddenly pale. He did not speak, but Mr. Heron inferred offence from his silence,
and became exceedingly profuse in his apologies.

"It is of no consequence," said the stranger, breaking in upon Mr. Heron's incoherent sentences
with some abruptness. "I was merely surprised for the moment; and, after all--I think I must
ask you to excuse me; I have a great dislike--a sort of nervous dislike--to sitting for a portrait.
I would rather that you did not sketch me, if you please."

"Oh, certainly, certainly; I am only sorry that I mentioned it," said Mr. Heron, more formally
than usual. He was a little vexed at his own precipitation, and also by the way in which his
request had been received. For a few moments there was a somewhat awkward silence, during which
the young man stood with his eyes cast down, apparently absorbed in thought. "A striking face,"
thought Mr. Heron to himself, being greatly attracted by the appearance of his new friend;
"all the more picturesque on account of that curious grey hair. I wonder what his history has
been." Then he spoke aloud and in a kindlier tone. "I will accept your offer of help," he said,
"and ask you to walk back with me to the town, if you are going that way. I came by a short
cut, which I am quite sure that I shall never remember."

The young man awoke from his apparently sad meditations; his fine, dark eyes were lightened
by a grateful smile as he looked at Mr. Heron. It seemed as though he were glad that something
had been suggested that he could do. But the smile was succeeded by a still more settled look
of gloom.

"I must introduce myself," he said. "I have no card with me--perhaps this will do as well."
He held out the book that he had been reading; it was a copy of Horace's Odes, bound in vellum.
On the fly-leaf, a name had been scrawled in pencil--John Stretton. Mr. Heron glanced at it
through his eye-glass, nodded pleasantly, and regarded his new friend with increased respect.

"You're a scholar, I see," he said, good-humouredly, as they strolled leisurely towards the
little town in which he had told John Stretton that he was staying; "or else you would not
bring Horace out with you into the fields on a sunshiny day like this. I have forgotten almost
all my classical lore. To tell the truth, Mr. Stretton, I never found it very much good to
me; but I suppose all boys have got to have a certain amount of it drilled into them----?"
He stopped short in an interrogative manner.

"I suppose so," said Stretton, without a smile. His eyes were bent on the ground; there was
a joyless contraction of his delicate, dark brows. It was with an evident effort that he suddenly
looked up and spoke. "I have an interest in such subjects. I am trying to find pupils myself--or,
at least, I hope to find some when I return to England in a week or two. I think," he added
with a half-laugh, "that I am a pretty good classic--good enough, at least, to teach small boys!"

"I dare say, I dare say," said Mr. Heron, hastily. He looked as if he would like to put another
question or two, then turned away, muttered something inaudible, and started off upon a totally
different subject, about which he laid down the law with unaccustomed volubility and decision.
Stretton listened, assented now and then, but took care to say little in reply. A sudden turn
in the road brought them close to a fine, old building, grey with age, but stately still, at
the sight of which Mr. Heron became silent and slackened his pace.

"A magnificent old place," said Stretton, looking up at it as his companion paused before the
gateway.

"Picturesque, but not very waterproof," said Mr. Heron, with a dismal air of conviction. "It
is what they call the Villa Venturi. There are some charming bits of colour about it, but I
am not sure that it is the best possible residence."

"You are residing here?"

"For the present--yes. You must come in and see the banqueting-hall and the terrace; you must,
indeed. My wife will be delighted to thank you herself--for the rescue of the umbrella!" and
Mr. Heron laughed quietly below his breath. "Yes, yes"--as Stretton showed symptoms of refusing--"I
can take no denial. After your long, hot walk with me, you must come in and rest, if it is
but for half-an-hour. You do not know what pleasure it gives me to have a chat with some one
like yourself, who can properly appreciate the influence of the Renaissance upon Italian art."

Stretton yielded rather than listen to any more of such gross and open flattery. He followed
Mr. Heron under the gateway into a paved courtyard, flanked on three sides by out-buildings
and a clock tower, and on the fourth by the house itself. Mr. Heron led the way through some
dark, cool passages, expatiating as he went upon the architecture of the building; finally
they entered a small but pleasant little room, where he offered his guest a seat, and ordered
refreshments to be set before him.

"I am afraid that everyone is out," Mr. Heron said, after opening and shutting the doors of
two or three rooms in succession, and returning to Stretton with rather a discomfited countenance.
"The afternoon is growing cool, you see, and they have gone for a drive. However, you can have
a look at the terrace and the banqueting-hall while it's still light, and we shall hope for
the pleasure of your company at some other time when my wife is at home, Mr. Stretton, if you
are staying near us."

"You are very kind," murmured Stretton. "But I fear that I must proceed with my journey to-morrow.
I ought not to stay--I must not----"

He broke off abruptly. Mr. Heron forgot his good manners, and stared at him in surprise. There
was something a little odd about this grey-haired young man after all. But, after a pause,
the stranger seemed to recover his self-possession, and repeated his excuses more intelligibly.
Mr. Heron was sorry to hear of his probable departure.

They wandered round the garden together. It was a pleasant place, with terraced walks and shady
alcoves, so quaint and trim that it might well have passed for that fair garden to which Boccaccio's
fine ladies and gallant cavaliers fled when the plague raged in Florence, or for the scene
on which the hapless Francesca looked when she read the story of Lancelot that led to her own
undoing. Some such fancies as these passed through the crannies of Stretton's mind while he
seemed to be listening to Mr. Heron's mildly-pedantic allocutions, and absorbed in the consideration
of mediæval art. Mr. Heron was in raptures with his listener.

"Oh, by-the-bye," said the artist, suddenly, as they paused beside one of the windows on the
terrace, "if I may trouble you to wait here a minute, I will go and fetch the sketch I have
made of the garden from this point. You will excuse me for a moment. Won't you go inside the
house? The window is open--go in, if you like."

He disappeared into another portion of the house, leaving Stretton somewhat amused by his host's
unceremonious demeanour. He did not accept the invitation; he leaned against the wall rather
languidly, as though fatigued by his long walk, and tried to make friends with a beautiful
peacock which seemed to expect him to feed it, and yet was half-afraid to approach.

As he waited, a gentle sound, of which he had been conscious ever since he halted close to
the window, rose more distinctly upon his ear. It was the sound of a voice engaged in some
sort of monotonous reading or reciting, and it seemed first to advance to the window near which
he stood and then to recede. He soon discovered that it was accompanied by a soft but regular
footfall. It was plain that somebody--some woman, evidently--was pacing the floor of the room
to which this window belonged, and that she was repeating poetry, either to herself or to some
silent listener. As she came near the window, Stretton heard the words of an old ballad with
which he was himself familiar--

    "I saw the new moon, late yestreen,
      Wi' the old moon in her arm:
    And if we gang to sea, master,
      I fear we'd come to harm."

The voice died away as it travelled down the space of the long room.

"Betty," said a feeble little voice--a child's voice, apparently quite close to the window
now--"I want you to say those two verses over again; I like them. And the one about the old
moon with the new moon in her arms; isn't that pretty?"

"You like that, do you, my little Jack?" said the woman's voice; a rich, low voice, so melodious
in its loving tones that Stretton positively started when he heard it, for it had been carefully
subdued to monotony during the recitation, and he had not realised its full sweetness. "Do
you know, darling, I thought that you were asleep?"

"Asleep, Betty? I never go to sleep when you are saying poetry to me. Aren't you tired of carrying
me?"

"I am never tired of carrying you, Jack."

"My own dear, sweet Queen Bess!" There was the sound of a long, loving kiss; and then the slow
pacing up and down and the recitation re-commenced.

Stretton had thought that morning that nothing could induce him to interest himself again in
the world's affairs; but at that moment he was conscious of the strongest possible feeling
of curiosity to see the owner of so sweet a voice. The slightest movement on his part, the
slightest possible push given to the window, which opened into the room like a door and was
already ajar, would have enabled him to see the speakers. But he would not do this. He told
himself that he ought to move away from the window, but self-government failed him a little
at that point. He could not lose the opportunity of hearing that beautiful voice again. "It
ought to belong to a beautiful woman," he thought, with a half smile, "but, unfortunately,
Nature's gifts are distributed very sparingly sometimes. This girl, whosoever she may be--for
I know she is young--has a lovely voice, and probably a crooked figure or a squint. I suppose
she is Mr. Heron's daughter. Ah, here he comes!"

The artist's flying grey beard and loose velvet coat were seen upon the terrace at this moment.
"I cannot find the sketch," he cried, dolorously. "The servants have been tidying the place
whilst I was out--confound them! You must positively stop over to-morrow and see it. This is
the banqueting-room--why didn't you go in?" And he pushed wide the window which the young man
had refrained from opening a single inch.

A flood of light fell on a yard or two of polished oak flooring; but at first Stretton could
see nothing more, for the rest of the room seemed to be in complete darkness to his dazzled
eyed. The blinds of the numerous windows were all drawn down, and some minutes elapsed before
he could distinguish any particular object in the soft gloom of the apartments. And then he
saw that Mr. Heron was speaking to a lady in white, and he discovered at once, with a curious
quickening of his pulses, that the reciter of the ballad stood before him with a child in her arms.

She was beautiful, after all! That was Stretton's first thought. She was as stately as a queen,
with a natural crown of golden-brown hair upon her well-poised head; the grand lines of her
figure were emphasized by the plainness of her soft, white dress, which fell to her feet in
folds that a sculptor might have envied. The only ornament she wore was a string of Venetian
beads round the milky whiteness of her throat, but her beauty was not of a kind that required
adornment. It was like that of a flower--perfect in itself, and quite independent of exterior
aid. In fact, she was not unlike some tall and stately blossom, or so Stretton thought, no
exotic flower, but something as strong and hardy as it was at the same time delicately beautiful.
Her eyes had the colouring that one sees in the iris-lily sometimes--a tint which is almost
grey, but merges into purple; eyes, as the poet says--

    "Too expressive to be blue.
    Too lovely to be grey."

In her arms she carried little Jack Heron, and by the way in which she held him, it was plain
that she was well accustomed to the burden, and that his light weight did not tire her well-knit,
vigorous limbs. His pale, little face looked wistfully at the stranger; it was a curious contrast
to the glowing yet delicate beauty and perfect health presented by the countenance of his cousin
Elizabeth.

Meanwhile, Mr. Heron was introducing the stranger, which he did with a note of apology in his
voice, which Stretton was not slow to remark. But Elizabeth--he did not catch her name, and
still thought her to be a Miss Heron--soon put him at his ease. She accompanied the artist
and his friend round the banqueting-hall, as they inspected the fine, old pictures with which
it was hung; she walked with them on the terrace--little Jack still cradled in her arms; and
wheresoever she went, it seemed to Stretton that he had never in all his life seen any woman
half so fair.

He did not leave the house, after all, until late that night. He dined with the Herons; he
saw Mrs. Heron, and Kitty, and the boys; but he had no eyes nor ears for anyone but Elizabeth.
He did not know why she charmed him; he knew only that it was a pleasure to him to see and
hear her slightest word and movement; and he put this down to the fact that she had a sympathetic
voice, and a face of undoubted beauty. But in very truth, John Stretton--alias Brian Luttrell--returned
to his inn that night in the brilliant Italian moonlight, having (for the first time in his
life, be it observed) fallen desperately, passionately in love. And the woman that he loved
was the heiress of the Luttrell estates; the last person in the world whom he would have dreamt
of loving, had he but known her name.

CHAPTER XVI.

"WITHOUT A REFERENCE."

Brian--or to avoid confusion, let us call him by the name that he had adopted, Stretton--rose
early, drank a cup of coffee, and was sitting in the little verandah outside the inn, looking
dreamily out towards a distant view of the sea, and thinking (must the truth be told?) of Elizabeth,
when a visitor was announced. He looked round, and, to his surprise, beheld Mr. Heron.

The artist was graver in manner and also a little more nervous than usual. After the first
greetings were over he sank into an embarrassed silence, played with his watch-chain and his
eye-glass, and, at last, burst somewhat abruptly into the subject upon which he had really
come to speak.

"Mr. Stretton," he said, "I trust that you will excuse me if I am taking a liberty; but the
fact is, you mentioned to me yesterday that you thought of taking pupils----"

"Yes," Stretton answered, simply. "I should be very glad if I could find any."

"We think that we could find you some, Mr. Stretton."

The young man's pale face flushed; but he did not speak. He only looked anxiously at the artist,
who was pulling his pointed grey beard in a meditative fashion, and seemed uncertain how to
proceed with his proposition.

"I have two boys running wild for want of a tutor," he said at last. "We shall be here some
weeks longer, and we don't know what to do with them. My wife says they are too much for her.
Elizabeth has devoted herself to poor little Jack (something sadly wrong with his spine, I'm
afraid, Mr. Stretton). Kitty--well, Kitty is only a child herself. The point is--would it be
a waste of your time, Mr. Stretton, to ask you to spend a few weeks in this neighbourhood,
and give these boys two or three hours a day? We thought that you might find it worth your while."

Stretton was standing, with his shoulder against one of the vine-clad posts that supported
the verandah. Mr. Heron wondered at his discomposure; for his colour changed from red to white
and from white to red as sensitively as a girl's, and it was with evident difficulty that he
brought himself to speak. But when he spoke the mystery seemed, in Mr. Heron's eyes, to be
partly solved.

"I had better mention one thing from the very first," said the young man, quietly. "I have
no references. I am afraid the lack of them will be a fatal drawback with most people."

"No references!" stammered Mr. Heron, evidently much taken aback. "But--my dear young friend--how
do you propose to get a tutor's work without them?"

"I don't know," said Stretton, with a smile in which a touch of sternness made itself felt
rather than seen. "I don't suppose that I shall get very much work at all. But I hope to earn
my bread in one way or another."

"I--I--well, I really don't know what to say," remarked Mr. Heron, getting up, and buttoning
his yellow gloves reflectively. "I should have no objection. I judge for myself, don't you
know, by the face and the manner and all that sort of thing; but it's a different thing when
it comes to dealing with women, you know. They are so particular----"

"I am afraid I should not suit Mrs. Heron's requirements," said Stretton, in a very quiet tone.

"It isn't that exactly," said Mr. Heron, hesitating; "and yet--well, of course, you know it
isn't the usual thing to be met with the plain statement that you have no references! Not that
I might even have thought of asking for them; ten to one that it would ever have occurred to
me--but my wife----. Come, you don't mean it literally? You have friends in England, no doubt,
but you don't want to apply to them."

"Excuse me, Mr. Heron; I spoke the literal truth. I have no references to give either as to
character, attainments, or birth. I have no friends. And I agree with you and Mrs. Heron that
I should not be a fit person to teach your boys their Latin accidence--that's all."

"Not so fast, if you please," said Mr. Heron, more impressed by Stretton's tone of cold independence
than he would have been by sheaves of testimonials to his abilities; "not so fast, my good
fellow. Now, will you do me a favour? Let me think the matter over for half-an-hour, and come
to you again. Then we will decide the matter, one way or the other."

"I should prefer to consider the matter decided now," said Stretton.

"Nonsense, my dear sir, you must not be hasty. In half-an-hour I shall see you again," cried
the artist, as he turned his back on the young man, and walked off towards the Villa Venturi,
swinging his stick jauntily in his hand. Stretton watched him, and bit his lip.

"I was a fool to say that I wanted work," he said to himself, "and perhaps a greater fool to
blurt out the fact that I had no respectable references so easily. However, I've done for myself
in that quarter. The British dragon, Mrs. Grundy, would never admit a man as tutor to her boys
under these mysterious circumstances. All the better, perhaps. I should be looked upon with
suspicion, as a man 'under a cloud.' And I should not like that, especially in the case of
that beautiful Miss Heron, whose clear eyes seem to rebuke any want of candour or courage by
their calm fearlessness of gaze. Well, I shall not meet her under false pretences now, at any
rate." And then he gave vent to a short, impatient sigh, and resumed the seat that he had vacated
for Mr. Heron's benefit.

He tried to read; but found, to his disgust, that he could not fix his mind on the printed
page. He kept wondering what report Mr. Heron was giving to his wife and family of the interview
that he had had with the English tutor "without references."

"Perhaps they think that I was civil to the father because I hoped to get something out of
them," said Stretton to himself, frowning anxiously at the line of blue sea in the distance.
"Perhaps they are accusing me of being a rank impostor. What if they do? What else have I been
all my life? What a fool I am!"

In despair he flung aside his book, went up to his bed-room, and began to pack the modest knapsack
which contained all his worldly wealth. In half-an-hour--when he had had that five minutes'
decisive conversation with Mr. Heron--he would be on his way to Naples.

He had all but finished his packing when the landlord shuffled upstairs to speak to him. There
was a messenger from the Villa Venturi. There was also a note. Stretton opened it and read:--

     "Dear Mr. Stretton,--Will you do me the favour to come up to the
     villa as soon as you receive this note? I am sorry to trouble you,
     but I think I can explain my motive when we meet.

     "Yours truly,

     "Alfred Heron."

Stretton crumpled the note up in his hand, and let it drop to the floor. He glanced at his
knapsack. Had he packed it too soon or not?

He followed the servant, whom he found in waiting for him--a stolid, impenetrable-looking Englishman,
who led the way to an entrance into the garden of the villa--an entrance which Stretton did
not know.

"Is your master in the garden? Does he wish me to come this way?" he asked, rather sharply.

The stolid servant bowed his head.

"My master desired me to take you to the lower terrace, sir, if you didn't find it too 'ot,"
he said, solemnly. And Stretton said nothing more. The lower terrace? It was not the terrace
by the house; it was one at the further end of the garden, and, as he soon saw, it was upon
a cliff overlooking the sea. It was overshadowed by the foliage of some great trees, and commanded
a magnificent view of the coast, broken here and there into inlets and tiny bays, beyond which
stretched "the deep sapphire of the sea." A slight haze hung over the distance, through which
the forms of mountain peaks and tiny islets could yet be clearly seen. The wash of the water
at the foot of the cliff, the chirp of the cicadas, were the only sounds to be heard. And here,
on a low, wooden bench, in the deepest and coolest shade afforded by the trees, Stretton found--not
Mr. Heron, as he had expected, but--Elizabeth.

He bowed, hesitating and confused for the moment, but she gave him her white hand with a friendly
look which set him at his ease, just as it had done upon his entrance to the villa on the previous
evening.

"Sit down, Mr. Stretton," she said, "will you not? My uncle has gone up to the house for a
paper, or a book, or something, and I undertook to entertain you until he came back. Have we
not a lovely view? And one is always cool here under the trees, now that the heats of summer
are past. I think you will find it a good place to read in when you are tired of giving lessons--that
is, if you are going to be so kind as to give lessons to our troublesome boys."

She had looked at him once, and in that glance she read what would have taken Mr. Heron's obtuse
male intellect weeks to comprehend. She saw the young man's slight embarrassment and the touch
of pride mingling with it; she noticed the spareness of outline and the varying colour which
suggested recent illness, or delicacy of health; above all, she observed the expression of
his face, high, noble, refined, as it had always been, but darkened by some inexplicable shadow
from the past, some trace of sorrow which could never be altogether swept away. Seeing all
these things, she knew instinctively that the calmest and quietest way of speaking would suit
him best, and she felt that she was right when he answered, in rather low and shaken tones--

"Pardon me. It is for Mr. Heron to decide; not for me."

"I think my uncle has decided," said Elizabeth. "He asked me to ascertain when you would be
willing to give the boys their first lesson."

"He said that, now? Since he saw me?" cried Stretton, as if in uncontrollable surprise.

Elizabeth's lips straightened themselves for a moment. Then she turned her face towards the
young man, with the look of mingled dignity and candour which had already impressed him so
deeply, and said, gently--

"Is there anything to be surprised at in that?"

"Yes," said Stretton, hanging his head, and absently pulling forward a long spray of clematis
which grew beside him. "It is a very surprising thing to me that Mr. Heron should take me on
trust--a man without recommendation, or influence, or friends." He plucked the spray as he
spoke, and played restlessly with the leaves. Elizabeth watched his fingers; she saw that the
movement was intended to disguise the fact that they were trembling. "As it is," he went on,
"even though your father--I beg pardon, your uncle--admits me to this house, I doubt whether
I do well to come. I think it would be better in many ways that I should decline this situation."

He let the leaves fall from his hand and rose to his feet. "Will you tell Mr. Heron what I
say?" he asked, in an agitated voice. "Tell him I will not take advantage of his kindness.
I will go on to Naples--this afternoon."

Elizabeth was puzzled. This was a specimen of humanity the like of which she had never met
before. It interested her; though she hardly wished to interfere in the affairs of a man who
was so much of a riddle to her. That he was a stranger and that he was young--not much older
than herself, very probably--were facts that did not enter her mind with any deterrent force.

But as Stretton lifted his hat and turned to leave her, she noticed how white and wan he looked.

"Mr. Stretton," she said, imperiously, "please to sit down. You are not to attempt that long,
hot walk again just now. Besides, you must wait to see my uncle. Sit down, please. Now, tell
me, you have been ill lately, have you not?"

"Yes," said Stretton, seating himself as she bade him, and answering meekly. "I had brain fever
more than a year ago at the monastery of San Stefano, and my recovery was a slow one."

"I know the Prior of San Stefano--Padre Cristoforo. Do you remember him?"

"Yes. He was very good to me. I was there for twelve months or more. He gave me work to do
in the school."

"Will you mention that to my uncle? He is very fond of Padre Cristoforo."

"I thought," said Stretton, colouring a little, and almost as though he were excusing himself,
"that it would be useless to give the name of a Romanist Prior as a referee to Mr. Heron. Most
people would think it an objection in itself?"

"Why not give English names, then?" said Elizabeth.

"Because I have no English friends."

There was a little silence. Stretton was leaning back in his seat, looking quietly out to sea;
Elizabeth was sitting erect, with her hands crossed on her lap. Presently she spoke, but without
turning her head.

"Mr. Stretton, I do not want you to think my remarks impertinent or uncalled for. I must tell
you first that I am in a somewhat unusual position. My aunt is an invalid, and does not like
to be troubled about the children; my uncle hates to decide anything for himself. They have
fallen into the habit--the unlucky habit for me--of referring many practical matters to my
decision, and, therefore, you will understand that my uncle came to me on his return from the
inn this morning and told me what you had said. I want to explain all this, so that you may
see how it is that I have heard it so quickly. No one else knows."

"You are very good," said Stretton, feeling his whole heart strengthened and warmed by this
frank explanation. "I think you must see how great a drawback my absence of recommendations
is likely to be to me."

"Yes," said Elizabeth, seriously, "I do. But if you cannot overcome it in this case, how are
you going to overcome it at all?"

"I don't know, Miss Heron."

"You said that you wished to take pupils," Elizabeth went on, too much interested in the subject
to notice the mistake made in her name; "you told my uncle so, I believe. Will you get them
more easily in England than here?"

"I shall no doubt find somebody who will forego the advantages of a 'character' for the sake
of a little scholarship," said Stretton, rather bitterly. "Some schoolmaster, who wants his
drudgery done cheap."

"Drudgery, indeed!" said Elizabeth, softly. Then, after a pause--"That seems a great pity.
And you are an Oxford man, too!"

Stretton looked up, "How do you know that?" he said, almost sharply.

"You talked of Balliol last night as if you knew it."

"You have a good memory, Miss Heron. Yes, I was at Balliol; but you will not identify me there.
The truth will out, you see; I was not at Oxford under my present name."

He thought he should read a look of shocked surprise upon her face; but he was mistaken. She
seemed merely to be studying him with grave, womanly watchfulness; not to be easily biassed,
nor lightly turned aside.

"That is your own affair, of course," she said. "You have a right to change your name if you
choose. In your own name, I dare say you would have plenty of friends."

"I had," he answered, gravely, but not, as she noticed, as if he were ashamed of having lost them.

"And you have none now?"

"Absolutely none."

"Through your own fault?" She wondered afterwards how she had the courage to ask the question;
but, at the moment, it came naturally to her lips, and he answered it as simply as it was asked.

"No. Through my misfortune. Pray ask me nothing more."

"I beg your pardon," she said. "I ought not to have asked anything. But I was anxious--for
the children's sakes--and there was nobody to speak but myself. I will say nothing more."

"I shall beg of you," said Stretton, trying to speak in as even a tone as hers, although the
muscles round his lips quivered once or twice and made utterance somewhat difficult, "I shall
beg of you to tell what I have said to Mr. Heron only; you and he will perhaps kindly guard
my secret. I wish I could be more frank; but it is impossible. I trust that, when I find employment,
my employers will be as kind, as generous, as you have been to-day. You will tell your uncle?"

"What am I to tell him?" she said, turning her eyes upon him with a kindly smile in their serene
depths. "That you will be here to-morrow at nine o'clock--or eight, before the day grows hot?
Eight will be best, because the boys get so terribly sleepy and cross, you know, in the middle
of the day; and you will be able to breakfast here at half-past ten as we do."

He looked at her, scarcely believing the testimony of his own ears. She saw his doubt, and
continued quietly enough, though still with that lurking smile in her sweet eyes. "You must
not find fault with them if they are badly grounded; or rather you must find fault with me,
for I have taught them nearly everything they know. They are good boys, if they are a little
unruly now and then. Here is my uncle coming from the house. You had really better wait and
see him, will you not, Mr. Stretton? I will leave you to talk business together."

She rose and moved away. Stretton stood like a statue, passionately desiring to speak, yet
scarcely knowing what to say. It was only when she gave him a slight, parting smile over her
shoulder that he found his voice.

"I can't thank you," he said, hoarsely. She paused for a moment, and he spoke again, with long
gaps between the sentences. "You don't know what you have done for me.... I have something
to live for now.... God bless you."

He turned abruptly towards the sea, and Elizabeth, after hesitating for a moment, went silently
to meet her uncle. She was more touched than she liked to acknowledge to herself by the young
man's emotion; and she felt all the pleasurable glow that usually accompanies the doing of
a good deed.

"Perhaps we have saved him from great misery--poverty and starvation," she mused to herself.
"I am sure that he is good; he has such a fine face, and he speaks so frankly about his troubles.
Of course, as my uncle says, he may be an adventurer; but I do not think he is. We shall soon
be able to judge of his character."

"Well, Betty," said Mr. Heron, as he came up to her, "what success? Have you dismissed the
young man in disgrace, or are we to let him try to instruct these noisy lads every morning?"

"I think you had better try him, uncle."

"My dear Elizabeth, it is not for me to decide the question. You know very well that I could
not do what you insist upon doing for us all----"

"Don't tell Mr. Stretton that, please, uncle."

Mr. Heron stopped short, and looked at her almost piteously.

"Dear child, how can I go on pretending to be the master of this house, and hiring tutors for
my children, when the expense comes out of your purse and not out of mine?"

"My purse is wide enough," said Elizabeth, laughing. "Dear uncle, I should hate this money
if I might not use it in the way I please. What good would it be to me if you could not all
share it? Besides, I do not want to be gossiped about and stared at, as is the lot of most
young women who happen to be heiresses. I am your orphan niece--that is all that the outside
world need know. What does it matter which of us really owns the money?"

"There are very few people of your opinion, my dear," said her uncle. "But you are a good,
kind, generous girl, and we are more grateful to you than we can say. And now, shall I talk
to this young man? Have you asked him any questions?"

"Yes. I do not think that we need reject him because he has no references, uncle."

"Very well, Elizabeth. I quite agree with you. But, on the whole, we won't mention the fact
of his having no references to the rest of the family."

"Just what I was about to say, Uncle Alfred."

Thereupon she betook herself to the house, and Mr. Heron proceeded to the bench on the cliff,
where he held a long and apparently satisfactory colloquy with his visitor. And at the end
of the conversation it was decided that Mr. John Stretton, as he called himself, should give
three or four hours daily of his valuable time to the instruction of the more youthful members
of the Heron family.

CHAPTER XVII.

PERCIVAL'S HOLIDAY.

"Hey for the South, the sunny South!" said Percival Heron, striding into his friend Vivian's
room with a lighted cigar between his teeth and a letter in his hand. "I'm off to Italy to-morrow."

"I wish to Heaven that I were off, too!" returned Rupert, leaning back in a lounging-chair
with a look of lazy discontent. "The fogs last all the year round in London. This is May; I
don't know why I am in town at all."

"Nor I," said his friend, briskly. "Especially when you have the cash to take you out of town
as often as you like, and whenever you like, while I have to wait on the tender mercies of
publishers and editors before I can put fifty pounds in my pocket and go for a holiday."

"You're in luck just now, then, I am to understand?"

"Very much so. Look at that, my boy." And he flourished a piece of thin paper in Vivian's face.
"A cheque for a hundred. I am going to squander it on railway lines as soon as possible."

"You are going to join your family?"

"Yes, I am going to join my family. What a sweetly domestic sound! I don't care a rap for my
family. I am going to see the woman I love best in the world, and, if she were not in Italy,
I doubt whether wild horses would ever draw me from this vast, tumultuous, smoky, beloved city
of mine--Alma Mater, indeed, to me, and to scores of men who are your brothers and mine----"

"Now, look here, Percival," said Rupert, in a slightly wearied tone, "if you are going to rant
and rave, I'll go out. My room is quite at your disposal, but I am not. I've got a headache.
Why don't you go to a theatre or a music hall, and work off your superfluous energy there by
clapping and shouting applause?"

Percival laughed, but seated himself and spoke in a gentler tone.

"I'll remember your susceptibilities, my friend. Let me stay and smoke, that's all. Throw a
book at my head if I grow too noisy. Or hand me that 'Review' at your elbow. I'll read it and
hold my tongue."

He was as good as his word. He read so long and so quietly that Vivian turned his head at last
and addressed him of his own accord.

"What makes your people stay so long abroad?" he said. "Are they going to stop there all the
summer? I never heard that a summer in Italy was a desirable thing."

"It's Elizabeth's doing," answered Percival, coolly. "She and my father between them got up
an Italian craze; and off they went as soon as ever she came into that property, dragging the
family behind them, all laden with books on Italian art, and quoting Augustus Hare, Symonds,
and Ruskin indiscriminately. I don't suppose Kitty will have a brain left to stand on when
she comes back again--if ever she does come back."

"What do you mean?" said Rupert, with a sudden deep change of voice.

"I mean--nothing. I mean, if she does not marry an Italian count or an English adventurer,
or catch malaria and die in a swamp."

"Good Heavens, Percival! how can you talk so coolly? One would think that it was a joke!"

Vivian had risen from his chair, and was standing erect, with a decided frown upon his brow.
Percival glanced at him, and answered lightly.

"Don't make such a pother about nothing. She's all right. They're in a very healthy place;
a little seaside village, where it has been quite cool, they say, so far. And they will return
before long, because they mean to spend the autumn in Scotland. Yes, they say it is 'quite
cool' at present. Don't see how it can be cool myself; but that's their look out. They've all
been very well, and there's no immediate prospect of the marriage of either of the girls with
an Italian or an English adventurer; not even of Miss Murray with your humble servant."

Rupert threw himself back into his chair again as if relieved, and a half-smile crossed his
countenance.

"How is Miss Murray?" he asked, rather maliciously.

"Very well, as far as I know," said Percival, turning over a page and smoothing out the "Review"
upon his knee. He read on for two or three minutes more, then suddenly tossed the book from
him, gave it a contemptuous kick, and discovered that his cigar had gone out. He got up, walked
to the mantelpiece, found a match, and lighted it, and then said, deliberately--

"They've done a devilish imprudent thing out there."

"What?"

"Hired a fellow as tutor to the boys without references or recommendations, solely because
he was good-looking, as far as I can make out."

"Who told you?"

"My father."

"Did he do it?"

"He and Elizabeth between them. Kitty sings his praises in every letter. He teaches the girls
Italian."

Rupert said nothing.

"So I am going to Italy chiefly to see what the fellow is like. I can't make out whether he
is young or old. Kitty calls him divinely handsome; and my father speaks of his grey hairs."

"And Miss Murray?"

"Miss Murray," said Percival, rather slowly, "doesn't speak of him at all." Then, he added,
in quicker tones--"Doubtless he isn't worth her notice. Elizabeth can be a very grand lady
when she likes. Upon my word, Vivian, there are times when I wonder that she ever deigned to
bestow a word or look even upon me!"

"You are modest," said Rupert, drily.

"Modesty's my foible; it always was. So, Hey for the sunny South, as I said before. "Shall
I say that 'Dark and true and tender is the North,' and 'Fierce and false and fickle is the
South,' or any similar statement?"

"I have no message," said Rupert.

"So be it. Do you know anything of young Luttrell--Hugo Luttrell--by-the-bye?"

"Very little. My sister is interested in him."

"He is going to the bad at an uncommonly swift pace--that is all."

"Old Mrs. Luttrell talks of making him her heir," said Vivian. "She asked him down last winter
but he wouldn't go."

"I don't wonder at it. She must be a very tough old lady if she thinks that he could shoot
there with much pleasure after his cousin's accident."

"I don't suppose that Mrs. Luttrell asked him with any such notion," returned Rupert. "She
merely wanted him to spend a few days with her at Netherglen."

"Has she much to leave? I thought the estates were entailed," said Percival.

"She has a rather large private fortune. I expected to find that you knew all about it," said
Rupert, with a smile.

"It's the last thing that I should concern myself about," said Percival, superbly. And Vivian
was almost sorry that he had made the remark, for it overset all the remains of his friend's
good temper, and brought into ugly prominence the upright, black mark upon his forehead caused
by his too frequent frown.

Matters were not mended when Rupert asked, by way of changing the conversation, whether Percival's
marriage were to take place on Miss Murray's return to England.

"Marriage? No! What are you thinking of?" said he, starting up impatiently. "Don't you know
that our engagement--such, as it is--is a profound secret from the world in general? You are
nearly the only person who knows anything about it outside our own family; and even there it
isn't talked about. Marriage! I only wish there was a chance of it. But she is in no hurry
to give up her liberty; and I can't press her."

And then he took his departure, with an injured feeling that Rupert had not been very sympathetic.

"I've a good mind to offer to go with him," said Mr. Vivian to himself when his friend was
gone. "I should like to see them all again; I should like to enjoy the Italian sunshine and
the fresh, sweet air with Kitty, and hear her innocent little comments on the remains of mediæval
art that her father is sure to be raving about. But it is better not. I might forget myself
some day. I might say what could not be unsaid. And then, poor, little Kitty, it would be hard
both for you and for me. No, I won't go. Stay in Italy and get married, Kitty: that is the
best thing for us both. You will have forgotten your old friend by the time you come back to
London; and I shall drag on at the old round, with the same weary, clanking chain at my heels
which nobody suspects. Good God!" cried Rupert, with a sudden burst of passion which would
have startled the friends who had seen in him nothing but the perfectly self-possessed, cold-natured,
well-mannered man of the world, "what a fool a man can make of himself in his youth, and repent
it all his life afterwards in sackcloth and ashes--yet repent it in vain--in vain!"

Percival Heron did not choose to announce his coming to his friends. He travelled furiously,
as it was his fashion to travel when he went abroad, and arrived at the little village, on
the outskirts of which stood the Villa Venturi, so late in the evening that he preferred to
take a bed at the inn, and sup there, rather than disturb his own people until morning. He
enjoyed the night at the inn. It was a place much frequented by fishermen, who came to fill
their bottles before going out at night, or to talk over the events of the previous day's fishing.
There was a garden behind the house--a garden full of orange and I lemon trees--from which
sweet breaths of fragrance were wafted to the nostrils of the guests as they sat within the
little hostelry. Percival could speak Italian well, and understood the patois of the fishermen.
He had a wonderful gift for languages; and it pleased him to sit up half the night, drinking
the rough wine of the country, smoking innumerable cigarettes, and laughing heartily at the
stories of the fisher-folk, until the simple-minded Italians were filled with admiration and
astonishment at this Inglese who was so much more like one of themselves than any of the Inglesi
that they had ever met.

Owing to these late hours and the amount of talking, perhaps, that he had got through, Percival
slept late next morning, and it was not until eleven o'clock that he started, regardless of
the heat, for the Villa Venturi. He had not very far to go, and it was with a light heart that
he strode along holding a great, white umbrella above his head, glancing keenly at the view
of sea and land which made the glory of the place, turning up his nose fastidiously at the
smells of the village, and wondering in his heart what induced his relations to stay so long
out of London. He rang the bell at the gateway with great decision, and told the servant to
inform Mr. Heron that "an English gentleman" wished to speak to him. He was ushered into a
little ante-room, requested to wait there until Mr. Heron was found, and left alone.

But he was not content to wait very patiently. He was sure that he heard voices in the next
room. Being quite without the scruples which had made Stretton, not long before, refuse to
push open a door one single inch in order to see what was not meant to meet his eyes, he calmly
advanced to an archway screened by long and heavy curtains, parted them with his fingers, and
looked in.

It was an innocent scene, and a pretty scene enough, on which his eyes rested, and yet it was
one that gave Percival little pleasure. The room was not very light, and such sunshine as entered
it fell through the coloured panes of a stained-glass window high in the wall. At an old oak
table, black and polished with age, sat two persons--a master and a pupil. They had one book
between them, and the pupil was reading from it. Papers, dictionaries, and copybooks strewed
the table; it was evident that other pupils had been there before, but that they had abandoned
the scene. Percival set his teeth, and the brightness went out of his eyes. If only the pupil
had not been Elizabeth!

It was not that she showed any other feeling than that of interest in the book that she was
reading. Her eyes were fixed upon the printed page; her lips opened only to pronounce slowly
and carefully the unfamiliar syllables before her. The tutor was quiet, grave, reserved; but
Percival noticed, quickly and jealously, that he once or twice raised his eyes as if to observe
the expression of Elizabeth's fair face; and, free from all offence as that glance certainly
was, it made a wild and unreasoning fury rise up in the lover's heart. He looked, he heard
an interchange of quiet question and answer, he saw a smile on her face, a curiously wistful
look on his; then came a scraping sound, as the chairs were pushed back over the marble floor,
and master and pupil rose. The lesson was over. Percival dropped the curtain.

He was so pale when Elizabeth came to him in the little ante-room that she was startled.

"Are you not well, Percival?" she asked, as she laid her hand in his. She did not allow him
to kiss her; she did not allow him to announce her engagement; and, as he stood looking down
into her eyes, he felt that the present state of things was very unsatisfactory.

"I shall be better if you administer the cure," he said. "Give me a kiss, Elizabeth; just one.
Remember that I have not seen you for nearly eight months."

"I thought we made a compact," she began, trying to withdraw her hand from his; but he interrupted
her.

"That I should not kiss you--often; not that I should never kiss you at all, Elizabeth. And
as I have come all the way from England, and have not seen you for so long, you might as well
show me whether you are glad or not."

"I am very glad to see you," said Elizabeth, quietly.

"Are you? Then kiss me, my darling,--only once!"

He put one arm round her. His face was very near her own, and his breath came thick and fast,
but he waited for her permission still. In his own heart he made this kiss the crucial test
of her faithfulness to him. But Elizabeth drew herself away. It seemed as though she found
his eagerness distasteful.

"Then you don't care for me? You find that you don't love me!" said Percival, almost too sharply
for a lover. "I may go back to England as soon as I like? I came only to see you. Tell me that
my journey has been a useless one, and I'll go."

She smiled as she looked at him. "You have not forgotten how to be tyrannical," she said. "I
hardly knew you when I first came in, because you looked so quiet and gentle. Don't be foolish,
Percival."

"Oh, of course, it is folly for a man to love you," groaned Percival, releasing her hands and
taking a step or two away from her. "You have mercy on every kind of folly but that. Well,
I'll go back."

"No, you will not," said Elizabeth, calmly. "You will stay here and enjoy yourself, and go
for a sail in the boat with us this evening, and eat oranges fresh from the trees, and play
with the children. We are all going to take holiday whilst you are here, and you must not disappoint
us."

"Then you must kiss me once, Elizabeth." But Percival's face was melting, and his voice had
a half-laughing tone. "I must be bribed to do nothing."

"Very well, you shall be bribed," she answered, but with a rather heightened colour upon her
cheek. And then she lifted up her face; but, as Percival perceived with a vague feeling of
irritation, she merely suffered him to kiss her, and did not kiss him in return.

His next proceeding was to put his father through a searching catechism upon the antecedents
and abilities of the tutor, Mr. John Stretton, who was by this time almost domiciled at the
Villa Venturi. Mr. Heron's replies to his son's questions were so confused, and finished so
invariably by a reference to Elizabeth, that Percival at last determined to see what he could
extract from her. He waited for a day or two before opening the subject. He waited and watched.
He certainly discovered nothing to justify the almost insane dislike and jealousy which he
entertained with respect to Mr. Stretton; when he reasoned with himself he knew that he was
prejudiced and unreasonable; but then he had a habit of considering that his prejudices should
be attended to. He examined the children, hoping to find that the new tutor's scholarship might
give him a loophole for criticism; but he could find nothing to blame. In fact, he was driven
reluctantly to admit that the tutor's knowledge was far wider and deeper than his own, although
Percival was really no mean classical scholar, and valued himself upon a thorough acquaintance
with modern literature of every kind. He was foiled there, and was therefore driven back upon
the subject of the tutor's antecedents.

"Who is this man Stretton, Elizabeth?" he asked one day. "My father says you know all about him."

"I?" said Elizabeth, opening her eyes. "I know nothing more than Uncle Alfred does."

"Indeed. Then you engaged him with remarkably little prudence, as it appears to me."

"Prudence is not quite the highest virtue in the world."

"Now, my dear Queen Bess, as Jack calls you, don't be didactic. Where did you pick up this
starveling tutor? Was he fainting by the roadside?"

"Mr. Stretton teaches very well, and is much liked by the boys, Percival. You heard Aunt Isabel
tell the story of his first meeting with Uncle Alfred."

"Ah, yes; the rescue of the umbrella. Well, what else? Of course, he got somebody to introduce
him in proper form after that?"

"No," said Elizabeth.

"No! Then you had friends in common? You knew his family?"

"No."

"Then how, in Heaven's name, Elizabeth, did he make good his footing here?"

There was a silence. The two were sitting upon the low bench on the cliff. It was evening,
and the sun was sinking to rest over the golden waters; the air was silent and serene, Percival
had been smoking, but he flung his cigar away, and looked full into Elizabeth's face as he
asked the question.

She spoke at last, tranquilly as ever.

"He was poor, Percival, and we wanted to help him. You and I are not likely to think the worse
of a man for being poor, are we? He had been ill; he seemed to be in trouble, and we were sorry
for him; and I do not think that my uncle made a mistake in taking him."

"And I," said Percival, with an edge in his voice, "think that he made a very great mistake."

"Why?"

"Why?" he repeated, with a short, savage laugh. "I shall not tell you why."

"Do you know anything against Mr. Stretton?"

"Yes."

"What, Percival?" Her tone was indignant; the colour was flaming in her cheeks.

"I know that Stretton is not his name. My father told me so." There was a pause, and then Percival
went on, in a low voice, but with a gathering intensity which made it more impressive than
his louder tones. "I'll tell you what I should do if I were my father. I should say to this
fellow--'Now, you may be in trouble through no fault of your own, but that is no matter to
me. If you cannot bear your own name, you have no business to live in an honest man's house
under false pretences; you may, therefore, either tell me your whole story, and let me judge
whether it is a disgraceful one or not, or you may go--the quicker the better.' That's what
I should say to Mr. Stretton; and the sooner it is said to him the more I shall be pleased."

"Fortunately," said Elizabeth, "the decision does not rest in your hands." She rose, and drew
herself to her full height; her cheeks were crimson, her eyes gleamed with indignation. "Mr.
Stretton is a gentleman; as long as he is in my employment--mine, if you please; not yours,
nor your father's, after all--he shall be treated as one. You could not have shown yourself
more ungenerous, more poor-spirited, Percival, than by what you have said to-day."

And then she walked with a firm, resolute step and head erect, towards the house. Percival
did not attempt to follow her. He watched her until she was out of sight, then he re-seated
himself, and sank into deep meditation. It was night before he roused himself, and struck a
blow with his hand upon the arm of the seat, which sent the rotten woodwork flying, as he gave
utterance to his conclusion.

"I was right after all. My father will live to own it some day. He has made a devil of a mistake."

Then he rose and took the path to the house. Before he entered it, however, he looked vengefully
in the direction in which the twinkling lights of the little village inn could be seen.

"If you have a secret," he said, slowly and resolutely, from between his clenched teeth, "I'll
find it out. If you have a disgraceful story in your life, I'll unmask it. If you have another
name you want to hide, I'll publish it to the world. So help me, God! Because you have come,
or you are coming, between me and the woman that I love. And if I ever get a chance to do you
a bad turn, Mr. John Stretton, I'll do it."

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE MISTRESS OF NETHERGLEN.

"Shall I go, or shall I not go?" meditated Hugo Luttrell.

He was lying on a broad, comfortable-looking lounge in one of the luxurious rooms which he
usually occupied when he stayed for any length of time in London. He had been smoking a dainty,
perfumed cigarette--he very seldom smoked anything except cigarettes--but he held it absently
between his fingers, and finally let it drop, while he read and re-read a letter which his
servant had just brought to him.

Nearly two years had passed since Richard Luttrell's death; years which had left their mark
upon Hugo in many ways. The lines of his delicately beautiful, dark face had grown harder and
sharper; and, perhaps on this account, he had a distinctly older look than was warranted by
his two-and-twenty years. There were worn lines about his eyes, and a decided increase of that
subtlety of expression which gave something of an Oriental character to his appearance. He
had lost the youthful, almost boyish, look which had characterised him two years ago; he was
a man now, but hardly a man whom one would have found it easy to trust.

The letter was from Angela Vivian. She had written, at Mrs. Luttrell's request, to ask Hugo
to pay them a visit. Mrs. Luttrell still occupied the house at Netherglen, and she seemed anxious
for an interview with her nephew. Hugo had not seen her for many months; he had left Scotland
almost immediately after Brian's departure, with the full intention of setting foot in it no
more. But he had then considered himself tolerably prosperous. Brian's death had thrown a shade
over his prospects. He could no longer count upon a successful application to Mr. Colquhoun
if he were in difficulties, and Brian's six thousand pounds melted before his requirements
like snow before an April sun. He had already squandered the greater part of it; he was deeply
in debt; and he had no relation upon whom he could rely for assistance--unless it were Mrs.
Luttrell, and Hugo had a definite dislike to the thought of asking Mrs. Luttrell for money.

It was no more than a dislike, however. It was an unpleasant thing to do, perhaps, but not
a thing that he would refrain from doing, if necessary. Why should not Mrs. Luttrell be generous
to her nephew? Possibly she wished to make him her heir; possibly she would offer to pay his
debts; at any rate, he could not afford to decline her help. So he must start for Netherglen
next day.

"Netherglen! They are still there," he said to himself, as he stared moodily at the sheet of
black-edged note-paper, on which the name of the house was stamped in small, black letters.
"I wonder that they did not leave the place. I should have done so if I had been Aunt Margaret.
I would give a great deal to get out of going to it myself!"

A sombre look stole over his face; his hand clenched itself over the paper that he held; in
spite of the luxurious warmth of the room, he gave a little shiver. Then he rose and bestirred
himself; his nature was not one that impelled him to dwell for very long upon any painful or
disturbing thought.

He gave his orders about the journey for the following day, then dressed and went out, remembering
that he had two or three engagements for the evening. The season was nearly over, and many
people had left London, but there seemed little diminution in the number of guests who were
struggling up and down the wide staircase of a house at which Hugo presented himself about
twelve o'clock that night, and he missed very few familiar faces amongst the crowd as he nodded
greetings to his numerous acquaintances.

"Ah, Luttrell," said a voice at his ear, "I was wondering if I should see you. I thought you
might be off to Scotland already."

"Who told you I was going to Scotland?" said Hugo.

The dark shadow had crossed his face again; if there was a man in England whom at that time
he cordially disliked, it was this man--Angela's brother--Rupert Vivian. He did not know why,
but he always had a presage of disaster when he saw that high-bred, impassive face beside him,
or heard the modulation of Vivian's quiet, musical voice. Hugo was superstitious, and he firmly
believed that Rupert Vivian's presence brought him ill luck.

"Angela wrote to me that Mrs. Luttrell was inviting you to Netherglen. I was going there myself,
but I have been prevented. A relation of mine in Wales is dying, and has sent for me, so I
may not be able to get to Scotland for some weeks."

"Sorry not to see you. I shall be gone by the time you reach Scotland, then," responded Hugo,
amiably.

"Yes." Rupert looked down with a reflective air. "Come here, will you?" he said, drawing Hugo
aside into a small curtained recess, with a seat just wide enough for two, which happened at
that moment to be empty. "I have something to ask you; there is something that you can do for
me if you will."

"Happy to do anything in my power," murmured Hugo. He did not like to be asked to help other
people, but there was a want of assurance in Vivian's usually self-contained demeanour which
roused his curiosity. "What is it?"

"Well, to begin with, you know the Herons and Miss Murray, do you not?"

"I know them by name. I have met Percival Heron sometimes."

"Do you know that they have returned rather unexpectedly from Italy and gone to Strathleckie,
the house on the other side of the property--about six miles from Netherglen?"

"How's that?"

"I suppose that Miss Murray thinks she may as well take possession of her estate," replied
Rupert, rather shortly. "May I ask whether you are going to call?"

"Oh, yes, I shall certainly call."

"Then, look here, Luttrell, I want you to do something for me," said Vivian, falling into a
more friendly and confidential strain than he usually employed with Hugo. "Will you mention--in
an incidental sort of way--to Mrs. Heron the reason why I have not come to Scotland--the claim
that my relation in Wales has on me, and all that sort of thing? It is hardly worth while writing
about it, perhaps; still, if it came in your way, you might do me a service."

Hugo was so much relieved to find nothing more difficult required of him that he gave vent
to a light laugh.

"Why don't you write?" he said.

"There's nothing to write about. I do not correspond with them," said Rupert, actually colouring
a little beneath Hugo's long, satirical gaze. "But I fancy they may think me neglectful. I
promised some time ago that I would run down; and I don't see how I can--until November, at
the earliest. And, if you are there, you may as well mention the reason for my going to Wales,
or, you see, it will look like a positive slight."

"I'm to say all this to Mrs. Heron, am I? And to no one beside?"

"That will be quite sufficient." There was a slight touch of hauteur in Vivian's tone. "And,
if I may trouble you with something else----"

"No trouble at all. Another message?"

"Not exactly. If you would take care of this little packet for me I should be glad. I am afraid
of its being crushed or lost in the post. It is for Miss Heron."

He produced a little parcel, carefully sealed and addressed. It looked like a small, square
box. Hugo smiled as he took it in his hand.

"Perishable?" he asked, carelessly.

"Not exactly. The contents are fully a hundred years old already. It is something for Miss
Heron's birthday. She is a great favourite of mine--a nice little girl."

"Quite a child, I suppose?"

"Oh, of course. One won't be able to send her presents by-and-bye," said Rupert, with rather
an uneasy laugh. "What a pity it is that some children ever grow up! Well, thanks, Hugo; I
shall be very much obliged to you. Are you going now?"

"Must be moving on, I suppose. I saw old Colquhoun the other day and he began telling me about
Miss Murray, and all the wonders she was doing for the Herons. Makes believe that the money
is theirs, not her own, doesn't she?"

"Yes."

"Odd idea. She must be a curiosity. They brought a tutor with them from Italy, I believe; some
fellow they picked up in the streets."

"He has turned out a very satisfactory one," Rupert answered, coldly. "They say that he makes
a capital tutor for the little boys. I think he is a favourite with all of them; he teaches
Miss Heron Italian."

His voice had taken a curiously formal tone. It sounded as though he was displeased at something
which had occurred to him.

Hugo thought of that tone and of the conversation many times before he left London next evening.
He was rather an adept at the discovery of small mysteries; he liked to draw conclusions from
a series of small events, and to ferret out other people's secrets. He thought that he was
now upon the track of some design of Vivian's, and he became exceedingly curious about it.
If it had been possible to open the box without disturbing the seals upon it, he would certainly
have done so; but, this being out of the question, he contented himself with resolving to be
present when it was opened, and to observe with care the effect produced by Vivian's message
on the faces of Mrs. Heron, Miss Heron, and Miss Murray.

He reached Dunmuir (where the nearest station to his aunt's house was situated) at eleven o'clock
in the morning. Mrs. Luttrell had sent the mail-phaeton for him. As Hugo took the reins and
glanced at the shining harness and the lustrous coats of the beautiful bays, he could not help
remembering the day when the mail-phaeton had last been sent to bring him from the station.
Richard had then sat in the place that he now occupied, with Angela beside him; and Brian and
Hugo laughed and talked in the back seat, and were as merry as they well could be. Nearly two
years ago! What changes had been seen since then.

The bays were fidgetty and would not start at once. Hugo was just shouting a hasty direction
to the groom at their heads when he happened to glance aside towards the station door where
two or three persons were standing. The groom had cause to wonder what was the matter. Hugo
gave the reins a tremendous jerk, which brought the horses nearly upon their haunches, and
then let them go at such a pace that it seemed as if he had entirely lost control over them.
But he was a very good whip, and soon mastered the fiery creatures, reducing their mad speed
by degrees to a gentle trot, which enabled the groom to overtake them, panting and red in the
face, indeed, as he swung himself up behind. The groom was inclined to think that Mr. Hugo
had lost his nerve for a few moments; for "his face turned as white," honest John remarked
afterwards, "as if he had seen a ghost."

"John," said Hugo, after driving for a good two miles in silence, "who was that gentleman at
the station door?"

"Gentleman, sir?"

"A young man--at least, he seemed young--in a great-coat."

"Oh!--I don't think that's a young gentleman, exactly; least-ways he's got grey hair. That's
the gentleman that teaches at Mr. Heron's, sir; Mr. Heron, the uncle to Miss Murray that has
the property now. His name's Mr. Stretton, sir. I asked Mr. Heron's coachman."

"What made you ask?"

The groom hesitated and shuffled; but, upon being kept sharply to the point, avowed that it
was because the gentleman "seen from behind" looked so much like Mr. Brian Luttrell. "Of course,
his face is quite different from Mr. Brian's, sir," he said, hastily, noting a shadow upon
Hugo's brow; "and he has grey hair and a beard, and all that; but his walk was a little like
poor Mr. Brian's, sir, I thought."

Hugo was silent. He had not noticed the man's gait, but, in spite of the grey hair, the tanned
complexion, the brown beard--which had lately been allowed to cover the lower part of Mr. Stretton's
face, and had changed it very greatly--in spite of all these things he had noticed, and been
startled by, the expression of a pair of grave, brown eyes--graver and sadder than Brian's
eyes used to be, but full of the tenderness and the sweetness that Hugo had never seen in the
face of any other man. Full, also, of recognition; there was the rub. A man who knows you cannot
look at you in the same way as one who knows you not, and it was this look of knowledge which
had unnerved Hugo, and make him doubt the evidence of his own senses.

He was still silent and absorbed when he arrived at Netherglen, and felt glad to hear that
he was not to see his aunt until later in the day. Angela came to meet him at the door; she
was pale, and her black dress made her look very slender and fragile, but she had the old,
sweet smile and pleasant words of welcome for him, and could not understand why his face was
so gloomy, and his eyes so obstinately averted from her own.

It was four o'clock in the afternoon when Hugo was admitted to Mrs. Luttrell's sitting-room.
He had scarcely seen her since the death of her eldest son, and was manifestly startled and
shocked to see her looking so much more aged and worn than she had been two years ago. She
greeted him much after her usual fashion, however; she allowed him to touch her smooth, cold
cheek with his lips, and take her stiff hand into his own, but she showed no trace of any softening
emotion.

"Sit down, Hugo," she said. "I am sorry to have brought you away from your friends."

"Oh, I was glad to come," said Hugo, confusedly. "I was not with friends; I was in town. It
was late for town, but I--I had business."

"This house is no longer a cheerful one," continued Mrs. Luttrell, in a cold, monotonous voice.
"There are no attractions for young men now. It has been a house of mourning. I could not expect
you to visit me."

"Indeed, Aunt Margaret, I would have come if I had known that you wanted me," said Hugo, wondering
whether his tardiness would entail the loss of Mrs. Luttrell's money.

He recovered his self-possession and his fluency at this thought; if danger were near, it behoved
him to be on the alert.

"I have wanted you," said Mrs. Luttrell. "But I could wait. I knew that you would come in time.
Now, listen to what I have to say."

Hugo held his breath. What could she say that needed all this preamble?

"Hugo Luttrell," his aunt began, very deliberately, "you are a poor man and an extravagant one."

Hugo smiled, and bowed his head.

"But you are only extravagant. You are not vicious. You have never done a dishonourable thing--one
for which you need blush or fear to meet the eye of an honest man? Answer me that, Hugo. I
may know what you will say, but I want to hear it from your own lips."

Hugo did not flinch. His face assumed the boyish innocence of expression which had often stood
him in good stead. His great, dark eyes looked boldly into hers.

"That is all true, Aunt Margaret. I may have done foolish things, but nothing worse. I have
been extravagant, as you say, but I have not been dishonourable."

He could not have dared to say so much if Richard or Brian had been alive to contradict him;
but they were safely out of the way and he could say what he chose.

"Then I can trust you, Hugo."

"I will try to be worthy of your trust, Aunt Margaret."

He bent down to kiss her hand in his graceful, foreign fashion; but she drew it somewhat hastily
away.

"No. None of your Sicilian ways for me, Hugo. That foreign drop in your blood is just what
I hate. But you're the only Luttrell left; and I hope I know my duty. I want to have a talk
with you about the house, and the property, and so on."

"I shall be glad if I can do anything to help you," said Hugo, smoothly. His cheek was beginning
to flush; he wished that his aunt would come to the point. Suspense was very trying! But Mrs.
Luttrell seemed to be in no hurry.

"You know, perhaps," she said, "that I am a tolerably rich woman still. The land, the farms,
and the moors, and all that part of the property passed to Miss Murray upon my sons' deaths;
but this house and the grounds (though not the loch nor the woods) are still mine, and I have
a fair income with which to keep them up. I should like to know that one of my husband's name
was to come after me. I should like to know that there would be Luttrells of Netherglen for
many years to come."

She paused a few minutes, but Hugo made no reply.

"I have a proposition to make to you," she went on presently. "I don't make it without conditions.
You shall hear what they are by-and-bye. I should like to make you my heir. I can leave my
money and my house to anyone I choose. I have about fifteen-hundred a-year, and then there's
the house and the garden. Should you think it worth having?"

"I think," said Hugo, with a wily avoidance of any direct answer, "that it is very painful
to hear you talk of leaving your property to anyone."

"That is mere sentimental nonsense," replied his aunt, with a perceptible increase in the coldness
of her manner. "The question is, will you agree to the conditions on which I leave my money
to you?"

"I will do anything in my power," murmured Hugo.

"I want you, then, to arrange to spend at least half the year with me here. You can leave the
army; I do not think that it is a profession that suits you. Live here, and fill the place
of a son to me. I have no sons left. Be as like one of them as it is in your power to be."

In spite of himself Hugo's face fell. Leave the army, leave England, bury himself for half
the year with an old woman in a secluded spot, which, although beautiful in summer and autumn,
was unspeakably dreary in winter? She had not required so much of Richard or Brian; why should
she ask for such a sacrifice from him?

Mrs. Luttrell watched his face, and read pretty clearly the meaning of the various expressions
which chased each other across it.

