For it is a shaggy world, and yet studded with gardens;  where the salt and tumbling sea receives
clear rivers running  from among reeds and lilies; fruitful and austere; a rustic  world; sunshiny,
lewd, and cruel.  What is it the birds sing  among the trees in pairing-time?  What means the
sound of the  rain falling far and wide upon the leafy forest?  To what tune  does the fisherman
whistle, as he hauls in his net at morning,  and the bright fish are heaped inside the boat?
These are all  airs upon Pan's pipe; he it was who gave them breath in the  exultation of his
heart, and gleefully modulated their outflow  with his lips and fingers.  The coarse mirth
of herdsmen,  shaking the dells with laughter and striking out high echoes  from the rock;
the tune of moving feet in the lamplit city, or  on the smooth ballroom floor; the hooves of
many horses,  beating the wide pastures in alarm; the song of hurrying  rivers; the colour
of clear skies; and smiles and the live  touch of hands; and the voice of things, and their
significant  look, and the renovating influence they breathe forth - these  are his joyful
measures, to which the whole earth treads in  choral harmony.  To this music the young lambs
bound as to a  tabor, and the London shop-girl skips rudely in the dance.

Alas if that were all!  But oftentimes the air is  changed; and in the screech of the night
wind, chasing navies,  subverting the tall ships and the rooted cedar of the hills;  in the
random deadly levin or the fury of headlong floods, we  recognise the "dread foundation" of
life and the anger in  Pan's heart.  Earth wages open war against her children, and  under
her softest touch hides treacherous claws.  The cool  waters invite us in to drown; the domestic
hearth burns up in  the hour of sleep, and makes an end of all.  Everything is  good or bad,
helpful or deadly, not in itself, but by its  circumstances.  For a few bright days in England
the hurricane  must break forth and the North Sea pay a toll of populous  ships.  And when
the universal music has led lovers into the  paths of dalliance, confident of Nature's sympathy,
suddenly  the air shifts into a minor, and death makes a clutch from his  ambuscade below the
bed of marriage.  For death is given in a  kiss; the dearest kindnesses are fatal; and into
this life,  where one thing preys upon another, the child too often makes  its entrance from
the mother's corpse.  It is no wonder, with  so traitorous a scheme of things, if the wise
people who  created for us the idea of Pan thought that of all fears the  fear of him was the
most terrible, since it embraces all.  And  still we preserve the phrase: a panic terror. 
Shrilly sound  Pan's pipes; and behold the banker instantly concealed in the  bank parlour!
For to distrust one's impulses is to be  recreant to Pan.

There are moments when the mind refuses to be satisfied  with evolution, and demands a ruddier
presentation of the sum  of man's experience.  Sometimes the mood is brought about by  laughter
at the humorous side of life, as when, abstracting  ourselves from earth, we imagine people
plodding on foot, or  seated in ships and speedy trains, with the planet all the  while whirling
in the opposite direction, so that, for all  their hurry, they travel back-foremost through
the universe of  space.  Sometimes it comes by the spirit of delight, and  sometimes by the
spirit of terror.  At least, there will  always be hours when we refuse to be put off by the
feint of  explanation, nicknamed science; and demand instead some  palpitating image of our
estate, that shall represent the  troubled and uncertain element in which we dwell, and satisfy
reason by the means of art.

CHAPTER XII - A PLEA FOR GAS LAMPS

CITIES given, the problem was to light them.  How to  conduct individual citizens about the
burgess-warren, when  once heaven had withdrawn its leading luminary? or - since we  live in
a scientific age - when once our spinning planet has  turned its back upon the sun?  The moon,
from time to time,  was doubtless very helpful; the stars had a cheery look among  the chimney-pots;
and a cresset here and there, on church or  citadel, produced a fine pictorial effect, and,
in places  where the ground lay unevenly, held out the right hand of  conduct to the benighted.
But sun, moon, and stars abstracted  or concealed, the night-faring inhabitant had to fall
back -  we speak on the authority of old prints - upon stable  lanthorns two stories in height.
Many holes, drilled in the  conical turret-roof of this vagabond Pharos, let up spouts of 
dazzlement into the bearer's eyes; and as he paced forth in  the ghostly darkness, carrying
his own sun by a ring about his  finger, day and night swung to and fro and up and down about
his footsteps.  Blackness haunted his path; he was beleaguered  by goblins as he went; and,
curfew being struck, he found no  light but that he travelled in throughout the township.

Closely following on this epoch of migratory lanthorns in  a world of extinction, came the
era of oil-lights, hard to  kindle, easy to extinguish, pale and wavering in the hour of  their
endurance.  Rudely puffed the winds of heaven; roguishly  clomb up the all-destructive urchin;
and, lo! in a moment  night re-established her void empire, and the cit groped along  the wall,
suppered but bedless, occult from guidance, and  sorrily wading in the kennels.  As if gamesome
winds and  gamesome youths were not sufficient, it was the habit to sling  these feeble luminaries
from house to house above the fairway.   There, on invisible cordage, let them swing!  And
suppose some  crane-necked general to go speeding by on a tall charger,  spurring the destiny
of nations, red-hot in expedition, there  would indubitably be some effusion of military blood,
and  oaths, and a certain crash of glass; and while the chieftain  rode forward with a purple
coxcomb, the street would be left  to original darkness, unpiloted, unvoyageable, a province
of  the desert night.

The conservative, looking before and after, draws from  each contemplation the matter for content.
Out of the age of  gas lamps he glances back slightingly at the mirk and glimmer  in which
his ancestors wandered; his heart waxes jocund at the  contrast; nor do his lips refrain from
a stave, in the highest  style of poetry, lauding progress and the golden mean.  When  gas
first spread along a city, mapping it forth about evenfall  for the eye of observant birds,
a new age had begun for  sociality and corporate pleasure-seeking, and begun with  proper circumstance,
becoming its own birthright.  The work of  Prometheus had advanced by another stride.  Mankind
and its  supper parties were no longer at the mercy of a few miles of  sea-fog; sundown no
longer emptied the promenade; and the day  was lengthened out to every man's fancy.  The city-folk
had  stars of their own; biddable, domesticated stars.

