Ay, but Mr. Williams, said my master, could you think I should have had reason to thank you,
if, loving one person above all her sex, you had robbed me of her, and married her yourself?--And
then, said he, you are to consider, that she was an old acquaintance of mine, and a quite new
one to you; that I had sent her down to my own house, for better securing her; and that you,
who had access to my house, could not effect your purpose, without being guilty, in some sort,
of a breach of the laws of hospitality and friendship. As to my designs upon her, I own they
had not the best appearance; but still I was not answerable to Mr. Williams for those; much
less could you be excused to invade a property so very dear to me, and to endeavour to gain
an interest in her affections, when you could not be certain that matters would not turn out
as they have actually done.

I own, said he, that some parts of my conduct seem exceptionable, as you state it. But, sir,
I am but a young man. I meant no harm. I had no interest, I am sure, to incur your displeasure;
and when you think of every thing, and the inimitable graces of person, and perfections of
mind, that adorn this excellent lady, (so he called me,) you will, perhaps, find your generosity
allow something as an extenuation of a fault, which your anger would not permit as an excuse.

I have done, said my master; nor did I meet you here to be angry with you. Pamela knew not
that she should see you: and now you are both present, I would ask you, Mr. Williams, If, now
you know my honourable designs towards this good girl, you can really be almost, I will not
say quite, as well pleased with the friendship of my wife, as you could be with the favour
of Mrs. Andrews?

Sir, said he, I will answer you truly. I think I could have preferred, with her, any condition
that could have befallen me, had I considered only myself. But, sir, I was very far from having
any encouragement to expect her favour; and I had much more reason to believe, that, if she
could have hoped for your goodness, her heart would have been too much pre-engaged to think
of any body else. And give me leave further to say, sir, that, though I tell you sincerely
my thoughts, were I only to consider myself; yet, when I consider her good, and her merit,
I should be highly ungenerous, were it put to my choice, if I could not wish her in a condition
so much superior to what I could raise her to, and so very answerable to her merit.

Pamela, said my master, you are obliged to Mr. Williams, and ought to thank him: He has distinguished
well. But, as for me, who had like to have lost you by his means, I am glad the matter was
not left to his choice. Mr. Williams, added he, I give you Pamela's hand, because I know it
will be pleasing to her, in token of her friendship and esteem for you; and I give you mine,
that I will not be your enemy: but yet I must say, that I think I owe this proper manner of
your thinking more to your disappointment, than to the generosity you talk of.

Mr. Williams kissed my hand, as my master gave it him; and my master said, Sir, you will go
home and dine with me, and I'll shew you my little chapel; and do you, Pamela, look upon yourself
at liberty to number Mr. Williams in the list of your friends.

How generous, how noble, was this! Mr. Williams (and so had I) had tears of pleasure in his
eyes. I was silent: But Mr. Williams said, Sir, I shall be taught, by your generosity, to think
myself inexcusably wrong, in every step I took, that could give you offence; and my future
life shall shew my respectful gratitude.

We walked on till we came to the coach, where was my dear father. Pamela, said my master, tell
Mr. Williams who that good man is. O, Mr. Williams! said I, it is my dear father! and my master
was pleased to say, One of the honestest men in England: Pamela owes every thing that she is
to be, as well as her being, to him; for, I think, she would not have brought me to this, nor
made so great resistance, but for the good lessons, and religious education, she had imbibed
from him.

Mr. Williams said, taking father's hand, You see, good Mr. Andrews, with inexpressible pleasure,
no doubt, the fruits of your pious care; and now are in a way, with your beloved daughter,
to reap the happy effects of it.--I am overcome, said my dear father, with his honour's goodness:
But I can only say, I bless God, and bless him.

Mr. Williams and I being nearer the coach than my master, and he offering to draw back, to
give way to him, he kindly said, Pray, Mr. Williams, oblige Pamela with your hand; and step
in yourself. He bowed, and took my hand; and my master made him step in, and sit next me, all
that ever he could do; and sat himself over against him, next my father, who sat against me.

And he said, Mr. Andrews, I told you yesterday that the divine you saw was not Mr. Williams;
I now tell you, this gentleman is: and though I have been telling him, I think not myself obliged
to his intentions; yet I will own that Pamela and you are; and though I won't promise to love
him, I would have you.

Sir, said Mr. Williams, you have a way of overcoming, that hardly all my reading affords an
instance of; and it is the more noble, as it is on this side, as I presume, the happy ceremony,
which, great as your fortune is, will lay you under an obligation to so much virtue and beauty,
when the lady becomes yours; for you will then have a treasure that princes might envy you.

Said my generous master, (God bless him!) Mr. Williams, it is impossible that you and I should
long live at variance, when our sentiments agree so well together, on subjects the most material.

I was quite confounded; and my master, seeing it, took my hand, and said, Look up, my good
girl; and collect yourself.--Don't injure Mr. Williams and me so much, as to think we are capping
compliments, as we used to do verses at school. I dare answer for us both, that we say not
a syllable we don't think.

O sir, said I, how unequal am I to all this goodness! Every moment that passes adds to the
weight of the obligations you oppress me with.

Think not too much of that, said he most generously. Mr. Williams's compliments to you have
great advantage of mine: For, though equally sincere, I have a great deal to say, and to do,
to compensate the sufferings I have made you undergo; and, at last, must sit down dissatisfied,
because those will never be balanced by all I can do for you.

He saw my dear father quite unable to support these affecting instances of his goodness;--and
he let go my hand, and took his; and said, seeing his tears, I wonder not, my dear Pamela's
father, that your honest heart springs thus to your eyes, to see all her trials at an end.
I will not pretend to say, that I had formerly either power or will to act thus: But since
I began to resolve on the change you see, I have reaped so much pleasure in it, that my own
interest will keep me steady: For, till within these few days, I knew not what it was to be happy.

Poor Mr. Williams, with tears of joy in his eyes, said, How happily, sir, have you been touched
by the divine grace, before you have been hurried into the commission of sins, that the deepest
penitence could hardly have atoned for!--God has enabled you to stop short of the evil; and
you have nothing to do, but to rejoice in the good, which now will be doubly so, because you
can receive it without the least inward reproach.

You do well, said he, to remind me, that I owe all this to the grace of God. I bless Him for
it; and I thank this good man for his excellent lessons to his daughter; I thank her for following
them: and I hope, from her good example, and your friendship, Mr. Williams, in time, to be
half as good as my tutoress: and that, said he, I believe you'll own, will make me, without
disparagement to any man, the best fox-hunter in England.--Mr. Williams was going to speak:
and he said, You put on so grave a look, Mr. Williams, that, I believe, what I have said, with
you practical good folks, is liable to exception: but I see we are become quite grave; and
we must not be too serious neither.

What a happy creature, my dear mother, is your Pamela!--O may my thankful heart, and the good
use I may be enabled to make of the blessings before me, be a means to continue this delightful
prospect to a long date, for the sake of the dear good gentleman, who thus becomes the happy
instrument, in the hand of Providence, to bless all he smiles upon! To be sure, I shall never
enough acknowledge the value he is pleased to express for my unworthiness, in that he has prevented
my wishes, and, unasked, sought the occasion of being reconciled to a good man, who, for my
sake, had incurred his displeasure; and whose name he could not, a few days before, permit
to pass through my lips! But see the wonderful ways of Providence! The very things that I most
dreaded his seeing or knowing, the contents of my papers, have, as I hope, satisfied all his
scruples, and been a means to promote my happiness.

Henceforth let not us poor short-sighted mortals pretend to rely on our own wisdom; or vainly
think, that we are absolutely to direct for ourselves. I have abundant reason, I am sure, to
say, that, when I was most disappointed, I was nearer my happiness: for had I made my escape,
which was so often my chief point in view, and what I had placed my heart upon, I had escaped
the blessings now before me, and fallen, perhaps headlong, into the miseries I would have avoided.
And yet, after all, it was necessary I should take the steps I did, to bring on this wonderful
turn: O the unsearchable wisdom of God!--And how much ought I to adore the divine goodness,
and humble myself, who am made a poor instrument, as I hope, not only to magnify his graciousness
to this fine gentleman and myself, but also to dispense benefits to others! Which God of his
mercy grant!

In the agreeable manner I have mentioned, did we pass the time in our second happy tour; and
I thought Mrs. Jewkes would have sunk into the ground, when she saw Mr. Williams brought in
the coach with us, and treated so kindly. We dined together in a most pleasant, easy, and frank
manner; and I found I need not, from my master's generosity, to be under any restraint, as
to my conduct to this good clergyman: For he, so often as he fancied I was reserved, moved
me to be free with him, and to him; and several times called upon me to help my father and
Mr. Williams; and seemed to take great delight in seeing me carve, as, indeed, he does in every
thing I do.

After dinner we went and looked into the chapel, which is a very pretty one, and very decent;
and, when finished as he designs it, against his next coming down, will be a very pretty place.

My heart, my dear mother, when I first set my foot in it, throbbed a good deal, with awful
joy, at the thoughts of the solemnity, which, I hope, will in a few days be performed here.
And when I came up towards the little pretty altar-piece, while they were looking at a communion-picture,
and saying it was prettily done, I gently stept into a corner, out of sight, and poured out
my soul to God on my knees, in supplication and thankfulness, that, after having been so long
absent from divine service, the first time I entered into a house dedicated to his honour,
should be with such blessed prospects before me; and begging of God to continue me humble,
and to make me not unworthy of his mercies; and that he would be pleased to bless the next
author of my happiness, my good master.

I heard my master say, Where's Pamela? And so I broke off sooner than I would, and went up to him.

He said, Mr. Williams, I hope I have not so offended you by my conduct past, (for really it
is what I ought to be ashamed of,) as that you will refuse to officiate, and to give us your
instructions here to-morrow. Mr. Peters was so kind, for the first time, to offer it; but I
knew it would be inconvenient for him; and, besides, I was willing to make this request to
you an introduction to our reconciliation.

Sir, said he, most willingly, and most gratefully, will I obey you: Though, if you expect a
discourse, I am wholly unprepared for the occasion. I would not have it, replied he, pointed
to any particular occasion; but if you have one upon the text--There is more joy in Heaven
over one sinner that repenteth, than over ninety-nine just persons that need no repentance;
and if it makes me not such a sad fellow as to be pointed at by mine and the ladies' servants
we shall have here, I shall be well content. 'Tis a general subject, added he, makes me speak
of that; but any one you please will do; for you cannot make a bad choice, I am sure.

Sir, said he, I have one upon that text; but I am ready to think, that a thanksgiving one,
which I made on a great mercy to myself, if I may be permitted to make my own acknowledgments
of your favour the subject of a discourse, will be suitable to my grateful sentiments.

That text, said I, will be a very suitable one for me. Not so, Pamela, said my master; because
I don't let you depart in peace; but I hope you will stay here with content.

O but, sir, said I, I have seen God's salvation!--I am sure, added I, if any body ever had
reason, I have to say, with the blessed virgin, My soul doth magnify the Lord; for he hath
regarded the low estate of his handmaiden--and exalted one of low degree.

Said my good father, I am sure, if there were time for it, the book of Ruth would afford a
fine subject for the honour done my dear child.

Why, good Mr. Andrews, said my master, should you say so?--I know that story, and Mr. Williams
will confirm what I say, that my good girl here will confer at least as much honour as she
will receive.

Sir, said I, you are inexpressibly generous; but I shall never think so. Why, my Pamela, said
he, that's another thing: It will be best for me to think you will; and it will be kind in
you to think you shan't; and then we shall always have an excellent rule to regulate our conduct
by to one another.

Was not this finely, nobly, wisely said, my dear mother?--O what a blessed thing it is to be
matched to a man of sense and generosity!--How edifying! How!--But what shall I say?--I am
at loss for words.

Mr. Williams said, when we came out of the little chapel, He would go home, and look over his
discourses, for one for the next day. My master said, I have one thing to say before you go--When
my jealousy, on account of this good girl, put me upon such a vindictive conduct to you, you
know I took a bond for the money I had caused you to be troubled for: I really am ashamed of
the matter; because I never intended, when I presented it to you, to have it again, you may
be sure: But I knew not what might happen between you and her, nor how far matters might have
gone between you; and so I was willing to have that in awe over you. And I think it is no extraordinary
present, therefore, to give you up your bond again cancelled. And so he took it from his pocket,
and gave it him. I think, added he, all the charges attending it, and the trouble you had,
were defrayed by my attorney; I ordered that they should. They were, sir, said he; and ten
thousand thanks to you for this goodness, and the kind manner in which you do it.--If you will
go, Mr. Williams, said he, shall my chariot carry you home? No, sir, answered he, I thank you.
My time will be so well employed all the way, in thinking of your favours, that I choose to
meditate upon them, as I walk home.

My dear father was a little uneasy about his habit, for appearing at chapel next day, because
of Misses Darnford and the servants, for fear, poor man, he should disgrace my master; and
he told me, when he was mentioning this, of my master's kind present of twenty guineas for
clothes, for you both; which made my heart truly joyful. But oh! to be sure, I can never deserve
the hundredth part of his goodness!--It is almost a hard thing to be under the weight of such
deep obligations on one side, and such a sense of one's own unworthiness on the other.--O!
what a Godlike power is that of doing good!--I envy the rich and the great for nothing else.

My master coming to us just then, I said, Oh! sir, will your bounty know no limits? My dear
father has told me what you have given him.--A trifle, Pamela, said he, a little earnest only
of my kindness.--Say no more of it. But did I not hear the good man expressing some sort of
concern for somewhat? Hide nothing from me, Pamela. Only, sir, said I, he knew not how to absent
himself from divine service, and yet is afraid of disgracing you by appearing.

Fie, Mr. Andrews! said he, I thought you knew that the outward appearance was nothing. I wish
I had as good a habit inwardly as you have. But I'll tell you, Pamela, your father is not so
much thinner than I am, nor much shorter; he and I will walk up together to my wardrobe; though
it is not so well stored here, as in Bedfordshire.

And so, said he, pleasantly, don't you pretend to come near us, till I call for you; for you
must not yet see how men dress and undress themselves. O sir, said my father, I beg to be excused.
I am sorry you were told. So am not I, said my master: Pray come along with me.

He carried him up stairs, and shewed him several suits, and would have had him take his choice.
My poor father was quite confounded: for my master saw not any he thought too good, and my
father none that he thought bad enough. And my good master, at last, (he fixed his eye upon
a fine drab, which he thought looked the plainest,) would help him to try the coat and waistcoat
on himself; and, indeed, one would not have thought it, because my master is taller, and rather
plumper, as I thought but, as I saw afterwards, they fitted him very well. And being plain,
and lined with the same colour, and made for travelling in a coach, pleased my poor father
much. He gave him the whole suit, and, calling up Mrs. Jewkes, said, Let these clothes be well
aired against tomorrow morning. Mr. Andrews brought only with him his common apparel, not thinking
to stay Sunday with us. And pray see for some of my stockings, and whether any of my shoes
will fit him: And see also for some of my linen; for we have put the good man quite out of
his course, by keeping him Sunday over. He was then pleased to give him the silver buckles
out of his own shoes. So, my good mother, you must expect to see my dear father a great beau.
Wig, said my master, he wants none; for his own venerable white locks are better than all the
perukes in England.--But I am sure I have hats enough somewhere.--I'll take care of every thing,
sir, said Mrs. Jewkes.--And my poor father, when he came to me, could not refrain tears. I
know not how, said he, to comport myself under these great favours. O my child, it is all owing
to the divine goodness, and your virtue.

Sunday.

This blessed day all the family seemed to take delight to equip themselves for the celebration
of the Sabbath in the little chapel; and Lady Jones and Mr. Williams came in her chariot, and
the two Misses Darnford in their own. And we breakfasted together in a most agreeable manner.
My dear father appeared quite spruce and neat, and was quite caressed by the three ladies.
As we were at breakfast, my master told Mr. Williams, We must let the Psalms alone, he doubted,
for want of a clerk: but Mr. Williams said, No, nothing should be wanting that he could supply.
My father said, If it might be permitted him, he would, as well as he was able, perform that
office; for it was always what he had taken delight in. And as I knew he had learnt psalmody
formerly, in his youth, and had constantly practised it in private, at home, on Sunday evenings,
(as well as endeavoured to teach it in the little school he so unsuccessfully set up, at the
beginning of his misfortunes, before he took to hard labour,) I was in no pain for his undertaking
it in this little congregation. They seemed much pleased with this; and so we went to chapel,
and made a pretty tolerable appearance; Mrs. Jewkes, and all the servants, attending, but the
cook: And I never saw divine service performed with more solemnity, nor assisted at with greater
devotion and decency; my master, Lady Jones, and the two misses, setting a lovely example.

My good father performed his part with great applause, making the responses, as if he had been
a practised parish-clerk; and giving the xxiiid psalm,

    [The Lord is only my support,
       And he that doth me feed:
     How can I then lack any thing
       Whereof I stand in need?
     In pastures green he feedeth me,
       Where I do safely lie;
     And after leads me to the streams,
       Which run most pleasantly.

     And when I find myself near lost,
       Then home he doth me take;
     Conducting me in his right paths,
       E'en for his own name's sake.
     And tho' I were e'en at death's door,
       Yet would I fear no ill:
     For both thy rod and shepherd's crook
       Afford me comfort still.

     Thou hast my table richly spread
       In presence of my foe:
     Thou hast my head with balm refresh'd,
       My cup doth overflow.
     And finally, while breath doth last,
       Thy grace shall me defend:
     And in the house of God will I
       My life for ever spend.]

which consisted of but three staves, we had it all; and he read the line, and began the tune
with a heart so entirely affected with the duty, that he went through it distinctly, calmly,
and fervently at the same time; so that Lady Jones whispered me, That good man were fit for
all companies, and present to every laudable occasion: And Miss Darnford said, God bless the
dear good man!--You must think how I rejoiced in my mind.

I know, my dear mother, you can say most of the shortest psalms by heart; so I need not transcribe
it, especially as your chief treasure is a bible; and a worthy treasure it is. I know nobody
makes more or better use of it.

Mr. Williams gave us an excellent discourse on liberality and generosity, and the blessings
attending the right use of riches, from the xith chapter of Proverbs, ver. 24, 25. And he treated
the subject in so handsome a manner, that my master's delicacy, who, at first, was afraid of
some personal compliments, was not offended. Mr. Williams judiciously keeping to generals;
and it was an elegant and sensible discourse, as my master said.

My father was in the clerk's place, just under the desk; and Lady Jones, by her footman, whispered
him to favour us with another psalm, when the sermon was ended. He thinking, as he said afterwards,
that the former was rather of the longest, chose the shortest in the book, which you know is
the cxviith.

    [O all ye nations of the world,
       Praise ye the Lord always:
     And all ye people every where
       Set forth his noble praise.

     For great his kindness is to us;
       His truth doth not decay:
     Wherefore praise ye the Lord our God;
       Praise ye the Lord alway.]

My master thanked Mr. Williams for his excellent discourse, and so did the ladies; as also
did I most heartily: and he was pleased to take my dear father by the hand, as did also Mr.
Williams, and thanked him. The ladies, likewise, made him their compliments; and the servants
all looked upon him with countenances of respect and pleasure.

At dinner, do what I could, I was forced to take the upper end of the table; and my master
sat at the lower end, between Mr. Williams and my father. And he said, Pamela, you are so dexterous,
that I think you may help the ladies yourself; and I will help my two good friends. I should
have told you, though, that I dressed myself in a flowered satin, that was my lady's, and looked
quite fresh and good, and which was given me, at first, by my master; and the ladies, who had
not seen me out of my homespun before, made me abundance of fine compliments, as soon as they
saw me first.

Talking of the Psalms just after dinner, my master was very naughty, if I may so say: For he
said to my father, Mr. Andrews, I think in the afternoon, as we shall have only prayers, we
may have one longer psalm; and what think you of the cxxxviith? O, good sir! said I, pray,
pray, not a word more! Say what you will, Pamela, said he, you shall sing it to us, according
to your on version, before these good ladies go away. My father smiled, but was half concerned
for me; and said, Will it bear, and please your honour?--O ay, said he, never fear it; so long
as Mrs. Jewkes is not in the hearing.

This excited all the ladies' curiosity; and Lady Jones said, She would be loath to desire to
hear any thing that would give me concern; but should be glad I would give leave for it. Indeed,
madam, said I, I must beg you won't insist upon it. I cannot bear it.--You shall see it, indeed,
ladies, said my master; and pray, Pamela, not always as you please, neither.--Then, pray sir,
said I, not in my hearing, I hope.--Sure, Pamela, returned he, you would not write what is
not fit to be heard!--But, sir, said I, there are particular cases, times, and occasions, that
may make a thing passable at one time, that would not be tolerable at another. O, said he,
let me judge of that, as well as you, Pamela. These ladies know a good part of your story;
and, let me tell you, what they know is more to your credit than mine; so that if I have no
averseness to reviving the occasion, you may very well bear it. Said he, I will put you out
of your pain, Pamela: here it is: and took it out of his pocket.

I stood up, and said, Indeed, sir, I can't bear it; I hope you'll allow me to leave the room
a minute, if you will read it. Indeed but I won't, answered he. Lady Jones said, Pray, good
sir, don't let us hear it, if Mrs. Andrews be so unwilling. Well, Pamela, said my master, I
will put it to your choice, whether I shall read it now, or you will sing it by and by. That's
very hard, sir, said I. It must be one, I assure you, said he. Why then, sir, replied I, you
must do as you please; for I cannot sing it.

Well, then, said my master, I find I must read it; and yet, added he, after all, I had as well
let it alone, for it is no great reputation to myself. O then, said Miss Darnford, pray let
us hear it, to choose.

