I was much fatigued, and had already arranged to accompany General Nelson A. Miles and his
party on a military inspection in Nebraska and South Dakota.  I arrived in Chicago on the 2nd
of September, where General Miles was stationed.  There I was met by the reporters and told
them all I knew about the intended trip.  I got as much information from them as they did from
me.  What they wanted was prophecy of the future, and I wanted to get into the wilderness.
Here our little party was made up, consisting of General Miles, his wife, daughter and son,
a lad about thirteen years old, Dr. Daly and brother, two staff officers, and myself.  We had
a car and lived in it, and the cook supplied us bountifully with good healthy food, largely
of game.  I cannot imagine a more delightful change to a man weary with talk in the hot chambers
of the capitol at Washington in August than the free, fresh air of the broad plains of Nebraska,
with congenial company in a palace car, and with no one to bother him.  Our first stopping
place was called Woodlake, a small village on the railroad in the northwestern part of Nebraska.
We arrived there in the afternoon; our car was detached from the train and became our home
for a week.  Around us in every direction was a broad rolling plain as dry as a powder horn,
with scarcely any signs of habitation, but the air was pure and exhilarating and imparted a
sense of health and energy.  My first inquiry to one of the denizens was "Where is your wood
and your lake which gave a name to your town?"  He said that when the railroad was located
there was a grove near by, and water in the low ground where we stood, but the trees had been
cut and utilized in constructing the railroad, and the lake was dried up by a long drouth.
Woodlake had neither wood nor lake in sight!  We took long walks without fatigue, and our hunters,
of whom General Miles was chief, supplied us with prairie chickens, the only game of the country.

After a few days thus spent we left our car and followed after a company of United States Infantry,
from Fort Niobrara, then engaged in their usual drill, to a lake about twenty-five miles away,
where we lived in tents and had a taste of real camp life.  With the consent of the owner of
the land we pitched our tents near his house on the banks of the lake about three miles long
and perhaps half a mile wide.  This sight of water was pleasing, but we were warned not to
drink it.  We had a bountiful supply of pure healthy water, however, from an artesian well
driven over a hundred feet into the earth and pumped by almost continuous winds into a great
basin, which furnished water in abundance for man and beast.  The only house in sight besides
the one near our camp was occupied by the brother of our host, three miles away at the other
end of the lake.  The two brothers were the lords of all they surveyed.  They owned large herds
of cattle that ranged over the plains around, drank of the waters of the lake and fed upon
the sparse herbage. A few hundred of them were kept in a corral near the homesteads for sale,
but the larger portion roamed under the care of herdsmen wherever the herbage seemed the best.

Here our hunters, with a fine pack of dogs, pursued prairie chickens, and not only supplied
our table but contributed to the soldiers in their shelter tents near by.  Mrs. Miles and I,
escorted by her young son, Sherman Miles, on horseback, had the benefit of a horse and buggy
with which we could drive in any direction.  There was no fence or bog or obstruction in the
way.  We generally kept in sight of our hunters, but if we lost the trail we could go to the
hills and soon locate our camp.  This free and easy life soon cured my languor and weariness
and I was able to walk or ride long distances as well as any of the party.

Returning to Woodlake we attached our car to the train for Big Spring in South Dakota.  Here
we spent two or three days, mainly in riding through the picturesque country around.  We intended
to extend our journey to Deadwood but the duties of General Miles required him to visit St.
Paul and the military post at Fort Snelling.  We returned by way of Sioux City, and thence
to St. Paul.  This city and its sister Minneapolis, were familiar ground. I had seen them when
they were small towns, and had by frequent visits kept pace with their growth, but the change
noticed on my last visit was a surprise to me.  The two cities, but a few miles apart when
rival rural villages, were approaching each other and no doubt are destined to blend into one
great city of the north. Here I met many friends, chief of whom I am glad to place Senator
Cushman K. Davis, of Minnesota.  After a brief stay our little party returned to Chicago and
dispersed, I going back to Mansfield to engage in the political campaign.

At this period "The Sherman Letters" was published, and at once attracted attention and general
commendation.  I though the experiment was a risky one, but it was the desire of General Sherman's
children to publish them, and especially of his daughter, Rachel Thorndike, who undertook to
compile them.  I have been in the habit of preserving letters written to me on personal matters,
or by members of my family, and, as General Sherman was a copious writer, I placed his letters
in separate books.  He did the same with mine, but many of these had been lost by fire in California.
Rachel arranged in chronological order such letters as she thought worth preserving, and they
were published in a handsome volume.  I have a multitude of letters from almost every man with
whom I have been associated in political life, but will not publish them while the writers
live without their consent, nor even after their death if the letters would tend to wound the
feelings of surviving friends or relatives. Letters are the best evidence of current thought
or events, but they ought to be guarded by the person to whom they are written as confidential
communications, not to be disclosed to the injury of the writer.  General Sherman's inmost
thoughts could be disclosed without fear of injury to him, and his letters, though rapidly
written, did not indicate a dishonorable thought or action.  I have seen nothing in the comments
of the press on these letters but what is kindly to the "two brothers."

On the 5th of October I made my usual annual visit to Cincinnati. I called at the chamber of
commerce, and had the same hearty welcome its members have always given me.  I made the usual
short speech, and it was all about "King Corn."  General surprise was expressed at my healthy
appearance.  The remark was frequently made that I was looking better and healthier than for
years.  The impression of my failing health was gathered from the newspaper descriptions of
"the old man" in the debates in the Senate.  The effect of the pure, open air of Nebraska was
apparent.  While on this visit I was greatly pleased with a drive to Fort Thomas, and the high
lands on the Kentucky side of the river.

My first political speech of the campaign was made on the 12th of October at Akron.  It was
confined almost exclusively to the tariff and silver questions.  The meeting was very large,
composed chiefly of men employed in the numerous factories and workshops of that active and
flourishing city.  On the 18th I spoke at Sandusky upon the same general topics as at Akron.
Here I visited the Soldiers' Home near that city.  It is an interesting place, where I think
the old soldiers are better cared for than in the larger national homes.

I continued in the canvass, speaking at several places, until the election on the first Tuesday
of November.  The result was the re- election of Samuel M. Taylor, the Republican candidate
for Secretary of State, by the abnormal plurality of 137,086, and nineteen Republicans were
elected to Congress out of the twenty-one.  Though this was a state election, it turned mainly
upon national issues, and especially evidenced strong opposition to the Wilson tariff bill.

I was often asked by reporters, after my return to Washington, as to the meaning of the election
in Ohio.  I uniformly expressed the opinion that it meant the adoption of a nonpartisan tariff
that would, with a few internal taxes, yield revenue enough to pay current expenses and the
interest of the public debt and a portion of the principal.  I still hope that will be the
result.  The framework of the McKinley law, with such changes as experience may show to be
essential, would remove the tariff from among the political questions of the day and give reasonable
encouragement to American industries.

On the 10th of November my family and I returned to Washington for the winter.  The chief interest
and occupation of my wife and myself, for the time being, was the preparation for the approaching
marriage of our adopted daughter, Mary Stewart Sherman, to James Iver McCallum, of Washington.
This was fixed for noon, the 12th of December.  Full details of all the preparations made,
of the dresses worn, of the members of the family in attendance, and of the distinguished guests
present, were given in the city papers. It is sufficient for me to say that Mary has been carefully
educated and trained by us, and never for a moment has given us anxiety as to her prudence,
deportment and affection.  We gave her in marriage to a young gentleman, a native of Washington,
and a clerk in the supreme court, and entertain for her all the affection and solicitude that
a father or mother can bestow.

Congress convened on the 3rd of December, 1894.  The languor that followed the excitement of
the two previous sessions, and the defeat suffered by the administration in the recent elections,
no doubt caused an indifference to political questions during the short remaining session.
But little was done except to consider and pass the appropriations for the support of the government.
I was often annoyed by unfounded assertions that I had influence with the administration, and
especially with Carlisle, that I was in frequent conference with the President and secretary.
These stories were entirely unfounded.  Neither of these gentlemen ever consulted me as to
the business of their offices, nor did I ever seek to influence them or even to converse with
them on political questions.  It was a delicate matter for either of them or myself to deny
such statements when our personal relations were so friendly.

And now these memoirs must end.  I know there are many events not noted that should have been
referred to, and many persons whose names should not have been omitted.  I would be glad to
mention with honor and credit hundreds of men who participated with me in the political events
of public life, but this seemed impracticable within reasonable limits.  I might have omitted
many events and speeches as of not sufficient consequence to be preserved, but if I had I would
not have written the recollections of my public life. The life of a civilian is in what he
says or writes, that of a soldier in what he does.  What I have written is no doubt clouded
with partisanship, but I would not be honest if I did not express my attachment to my party.
This, however, never impaired my patriotism or swerved me from the path of duty.

To the people of Ohio I owe all the offices and honors that have been conferred upon me.  No
constituency could have been more forbearing and kind.  During forty years of public life,
though many able men have aspired to the office I hold, the people of Ohio, through their general
assembly, have preferred me to represent them.  Though my grateful thanks are due to them and
have been often expressed, yet I have felt, as they do, that my duty was to the whole country.
Proud of Ohio, of its history and people, willing at all times to sound its praise in the sisterhood
of states, yet, according to my convictions, the United States is entitled to my allegiance,
and all parts of it should receive equal care and consideration.  "Our country, our whole country,
and nothing but our country" has been the watchword and creed of my public life.  It was the
opposite doctrine of "states' rights," allegiance to a state, that led to the Civil War.  It
was settled by this war that we have a country limited in its powers by the constitution of
the United States fairly construed.  Since that time our progress and development have been
more rapid than any other country's.

The events of the future are beyond the vision of mankind, but I hope our people will be content
with internal growth, and avoid the complications of foreign acquisitions.  Our family of states
is already large enough to create embarrassment in the Senate, and a republic should not hold
dependent provinces or possessions. Every new acquisition will create embarrassments.  Canada
and Mexico as independent republics will be more valuable to the United States than if carved
into additional states.  The Union already embraces discordant elements enough without adding
others.  If my life is prolonged I will do all I can to add to the strength and prosperity
of the United States, but nothing to extend its limits or to add new dangers by acquisition
of foreign territory.

INDEX [omitted]