I stood like one bewitched.  I drank it in, in a speechless rapture. The world was new to me,
and I had never seen anything like this at home. But as I have said, a day came when I began
to cease from noting the glories and the charms which the moon and the sun and the twilight
wrought upon the river's face; another day came when I ceased altogether to note them. Then,
if that sunset scene had been repeated, I should have looked upon it without rapture, and should
have commented upon it, inwardly, after this fashion:  This sun means that we are going to
have wind to-morrow; that floating log means that the river is rising, small thanks to it;
that slanting mark on the water refers to a bluff reef which is going to kill somebody's steamboat
one of these nights, if it keeps on stretching out like that; those tumbling 'boils' show a
dissolving bar and a changing channel there; the lines and circles in the slick water over
yonder are a warning that that troublesome place is shoaling up dangerously; that silver streak
in the shadow of the forest is the 'break' from a new snag, and he has located himself in the
very best place he could have found to fish for steamboats; that tall dead tree, with a single
living branch, is not going to last long, and then how is a body ever going to get through
this blind place at night without the friendly old landmark.

No, the romance and the beauty were all gone from the river. All the value any feature of it
had for me now was the amount of usefulness it could furnish toward compassing the safe piloting
of a steamboat.  Since those days, I have pitied doctors from my heart. What does the lovely
flush in a beauty's cheek mean to a doctor but a 'break' that ripples above some deadly disease.
Are not all her visible charms sown thick with what are to him the signs and symbols of hidden
decay?  Does he ever see her beauty at all, or doesn't he simply view her professionally, and
comment upon her unwholesome condition all to himself? And doesn't he sometimes wonder whether
he has gained most or lost most by learning his trade?

Chapter 10 Completing My Education

WHOSOEVER has done me the courtesy to read my chapters which have preceded this may possibly
wonder that I deal so minutely with piloting as a science. It was the prime purpose of those
chapters; and I am not quite done yet. I wish to show, in the most patient and painstaking
way, what a wonderful science it is. If the theme were hackneyed, I should be obliged to deal
gently with the reader; but since it is wholly new, I have felt at liberty to take up a considerable
degree of room with it.

When I had learned the name and position of every visible feature of the river; when I had
so mastered its shape that I could shut my eyes and trace it from St. Louis to New Orleans;
when I had learned to read the face of the water as one would cull the news from the morning
paper; and finally, when I had trained my dull memory to treasure up an endless array of soundings
and crossing-marks, and keep fast hold of them, I judged that my education was complete:  so
I got to tilting my cap to the side of my head, and wearing a tooth-pick in my mouth at the
wheel. Mr. Bixby had his eye on these airs. One day he said--

'What is the height of that bank yonder, at Burgess's?'

'How can I tell, sir.  It is three-quarters of a mile away.'

'Very poor eye--very poor.  Take the glass.'

I took the glass, and presently said--'I can't tell. I suppose that that bank is about a foot
and a half high.'

'Foot and a half!  That's a six-foot bank.  How high was the bank along here last trip?'

'I don't know; I never noticed.'

'You didn't? Well, you must always do it hereafter.'

'Why?'

