"Is the heart of the forest maiden heavy?  Is the Laughing Tadpole lonely?  Does she mourn
over the extinguished council-fires of her race, and the vanished glory of her ancestors? 
Or does her sad spirit wander afar toward the hunting-grounds whither her brave Gobbler-of-the-
Lightnings is gone?  Why is my daughter silent?  Has she ought against the paleface stranger?"

The maiden said:

"Faix, an' is it Biddy Malone ye dare to be callin' names?  Lave this, or I'll shy your lean
carcass over the cataract, ye sniveling blaggard!"

I adjourned from there also.

"Confound these Indians!" I said.  "They told me they were tame; but, if appearances go for
anything, I should say they were all on the warpath."

I made one more attempt to fraternize with them, and only one.  I came upon a camp of them
gathered in the shade of a great tree, making wampum and moccasins, and addressed them in the
language of friendship:

"Noble Red Men, Braves, Grand Sachems, War Chiefs, Squaws, and High Muck-a-Mucks, the paleface
from the land of the setting sun greets you! You, Beneficent Polecat--you, Devourer of Mountains--you,
Roaring Thundergust --you, Bully Boy with a Glass eye--the paleface from beyond the great waters
greets you all! War and pestilence have thinned your ranks and destroyed your once proud nation.
Poker and seven-up, and a vain modern expense for soap, unknown to your glorious ancestors,
have depleted your purses.  Appropriating, in your simplicity, the property of others has gotten
you into trouble.  Misrepresenting facts, in your simple innocence, has damaged your reputation
with the soulless usurper. The Jackal, the York Dove, and the Panther Contes populaires des Bassoutos.
Sovereign Lindorm lived long and happily with his king, and there
are some who say that if they are not animated nowadays they are however
populate to this night.

Recueillis et traduits par E. Jacottet.

  For shame!  Remember your ancestors! 
Recall their mighty deeds!  Remember Uncas!--and Red jacket! and Hole in the Day!--and Whoopdedoodledo!
Emulate their achievements!  Unfurl yourselves under my banner, noble savages, illustrious
guttersnipes--"

"Down wid him!"  "Scoop the blaggard!"  "Burn him!"  "Bang him!" "Dhround him!"

It was the quickest operation that ever was.  I simply saw a sudden flash in the air of clubs,
brickbats, fists, bead-baskets, and moccasins--a single flash, and they all appeared to hit
me at once, and no two of them in the same place.  In the next instant the entire tribe was
upon me. They tore half the clothes off me; they broke my arms and legs; they gave me a thump
that dented the top of my head till it would hold coffee like a saucer; and, to crown their
disgraceful proceedings and add insult to injury, they threw me over the Niagara Falls, and
I got wet.

About ninety or a hundred feet from the top, the remains of my vest caught on a projecting
rock, and I was almost drowned before I could get loose.  I finally fell, and brought up in
a world of white foam at the foot of the Fall, whose celled and bubbly masses towered up several
inches above my head.  Of course I got into the eddy.  I sailed round and round in it forty-four
times--chasing a chip and gaining on it--each round trip a half-mile--reaching for the same
bush on the bank forty-four times, and just exactly missing it by a hair's-breadth every time.

At last a man walked down and sat down close to that bush, and put a pipe in his mouth, and
lit a match, and followed me with one eye and kept the other on the match, while he sheltered
it in his hands from the wind. Presently a puff of wind blew it out.  The next time I swept
around he said:

"Got a match?"

"Yes; in my other vest.  Help me out, please."

"Not for Joe."

When I came round again, I said:

"Excuse the seemingly impertinent curiosity of a drowning man, but will you explain this singular
conduct of yours?"

"With pleasure.  I am the coroner.  Don't hurry on my account.  I can wait for you.  But I
wish I had a match."

I said: "Take my place, and I'll go and get you one."

He declined.  This lack of confidence on his part created a coldness between us, and from that
time forward I avoided him.  It was my idea, in case anything happened to me, to so time the
occurrence as to throw my custom into the hands of the opposition coroner on the American side.

At last a policeman came along, and arrested me for disturbing the peace by yelling at people
on shore for help.  The judge fined me, but had the advantage of him.  My money was with my
pantaloons, and my pantaloons were with the Indians.

Thus I escaped.  I am now lying in a very critical condition.  At least I am lying anyway---critical
or not critical.  I am hurt all over, but I cannot tell the full extent yet, because the doctor
is not done taking inventory.  He will make out my manifest this evening.  However, thus far
he thinks only sixteen of my wounds are fatal.  I don't mind the others.

Upon regaining my right mind, I said:

"It is an awful savage tribe of Indians that do the beadwork and moccasins for Niagara Falls,
doctor.  Where are they from?"

"Limerick, my son."