BIBLE STUDIES

IN THE LIFE OF PAUL

HISTORICAL AND CONSTRUCTIVE

BY

REV. HENRY T. SELL, D.D.

Author of "Supplemental Bible Studies," "Bible Study by Books,"
  "Bible Study by Doctrines," "Bible Study by Periods,"
    and "Bible Studies in the Life of Christ."  We see in process of
fulfillment the promise of Jesus Christ to his disciples that
they should receive power after the Holy Ghost had come
upon them and that they should be witnesses unto Him
"both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and
unto the uttermost part of the earth."  Those were
earnest times and full of stirring events, when men went forth
to conquer a hostile world not with swords, but by the
preaching of a gospel of peace and good will.  As soon as
this proclamation was made in Judea and Samaria a new
instrument was chosen by Jesus Christ, in Paul, to carry
His message to the uttermost part of the earth.  He
thus became at once the chief character in the larger work
of planting and developing churches outside of Palestine.
The study of Paul's life shows the difficulties encountered,
the doctrines taught, and the organization perfected in the
early churches.  "We here watch the dawn of the gospel
which the Savior preached as it broadens gradually into
the boundless day."

Bible Studies in the Life of Paul is designed to follow the author's Bible Studies in the Life
of Christ and to show the work of the Great Apostle in carrying the gospel to a Gentile world.
The aim is to present the work of Paul in a constructive and historical way.  While there has
been a careful consideration, on the part of the author, of disputed questions, only conclusions
upon which there is a general agreement amongst scholars, and which can be consistently held,
are presented.  The great main facts of Paul's life and work stand forth unchallenged and the
emphasis is placed upon them.  This book is divided into three parts, Paul's preparation for
his work, his missionary journeys, and his writings.  This is a text book, and, with the analysis
of each study and questions, is prepared for the use of normal and advanced Sunday-school classes,
teachers' meetings, schools, colleges, and private study. This is the sixth book of the kind
which the author has prepared and sent forth.  The large favor with which the other books have
been received, and the desire, first of all, of making the life and work of Paul even better
known, have been the motives which have led to its preparation.

CHICAGO, ILL.

HENRY T. SELL.

CONTENTS

        I.  PAUL'S PREPARATION

STUDY

    I.  Early Life
   II.  Conversion

        II.  PAUL'S JOURNEYS

  III.  First Missionary Journey
   IV.  Second Missionary Journey
    V.  Third Missionary Journey
   VI.  Jerusalem to Rome

        III.  PAUL'S WRITINGS

  VII.  The Future of Christ's Kingdom
 VIII.  The Old Faiths and the New
   IX.  The Supremacy of Christ
    X.  Pastoral and Personal

I.  PAUL'S PREPARATION

STUDY I

EARLY LIFE

ANALYSIS

+The Place of Paul+--The Man.  The Work of the Apostle.  The Leading Thought.

+Birth+--Place.  Time.  Family.

+Training+--Home.  Mental, Moral and Religious.  Industrial.

+The World as Paul Saw It+--The World.  Political.  Religious. The Difficulties.

Bible Studies in the Life of Paul

I.  PAUL'S PREPARATION

STUDY I

EARLY LIFE

THE PLACE OF PAUL

+The Man, Paul,+ judged by the influence he has exerted in the world, is one of the greatest
characters in all history.  He is pre-eminent not only as a missionary, but as a marvelous
thinker and writer.  "He was a personality of vast power, force, and individuality."  There
are some men who seem to be born and prepared to do a large work for the world; Paul makes
the impression upon those who carefully read the record of his life that he stands first in
this class of men.

+The Work of the Apostle.+--As John the Baptist preceded Christ and prepared the way for His
coming, so Paul succeeded Christ and went throughout the heathen world proclaiming that the
Christ had come, and calling upon all men, Jews and Gentiles, to repent and accept Him as their
Lord and Savior.  So wide was his work as a missionary of the cross, and an interpreter of
the Christ, that a certain class of critics have sought to make him the creator of Christianity,
as we know it; a position which Paul would be the first to repudiate.  He sought of himself,
before he was apprehended by Christ on the way to Damascus, to drive Christianity from the
face of the earth.

+The Leading Thought+ in Paul's mind, after his conversion, was personal devotion to Christ;
this was the mainspring of every act.  "For me to live is Christ" (Phil. 1:21).  In his letters
to the churches which he founded, there are found no picturesque descriptions of cities or
of scenery; his one thought is to make known the Christ. (1 Cor. 2:1, 2).  In the evangelization
of the heathen world, for which task he had been set apart by the Holy Spirit (Acts 13:2) and
which he had accepted with all his heart, it is not only his leading, but his only thought
to make known Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior.

To miss this supreme purpose of Paul in the study of his life is to miss its whole significance
(Phil. 2:1-11; Col. 1:12-20).

BIRTH

+Place.+--The world is interested in the birthplaces of its great men.  Some of these birthplaces
are in doubt. There is no doubt about the place in which Paul was born.  He says, in making
a speech to the Jews, "I am verily a man which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia"
(Acts 22:3).  This city was the capital of Cilicia and was situated in the southeastern part
of Asia Minor.  It was but a few miles from the coast and was easily accessible from the Mediterranean
sea by a navigable river.  A large commerce was controlled by the merchants, on sea and on
land.  Tarsus, while one of three university centers of the period, ranking with Athens and
Alexandria, was an exceedingly corrupt city.  It was the chief seat of "a special Baal worship
of an imposing but unspeakably degrading character."

+Time.+--The date of Paul's birth is nowhere recorded, but from certain dates given in the
Acts, from which we reckon back, it is thought that he was born about the same time as Jesus
Christ.

+Family.+--We are left, in this matter, without any uncertainty.  Paul's father and mother
were Jews of the stricter sort.  The expression which Paul uses, "An Hebrew of the Hebrews"
is very significant.  The Jews of the Dispersion were known at this time as Hebrews and Hellenists.
The Hebrews clung to the Hebrew tongue and followed Hebrew customs.  The Hellenists spoke Greek
by preference and adopted, more or less, Greek views and civilization.  Paul had a married
sister who lived in Jerusalem (Acts 23:16) and relatives in Rome (Rom. 16:7, 11).

TRAINING

+Home.+--The instruction received in the home has often more influence and is more lasting
than any other.  Paul received the usual thorough training of the Jew boy accentuated in his
case, in all probability, by the open iniquity which was daily practised in his native city.
We never hear him expressing any regret that he received such thorough religious instruction
at the hands of his parents.

+Mental, Moral, and Religious.+--Good teachers were employed to instruct the boy, who was afterwards
to make such a mark in the world.  After going through the school, under the care of the synagogue
at Tarsus, he was sent to Jerusalem to complete his education.  It is very evident that He
had a profound knowledge of the Scriptures from the large use he makes of them in his Epistles.
He seems also to have been quite well acquainted with Greek philosophy and literature.  He
quotes from the Greek poets, Aratus, Epimenides, and Menander.  No man ever studied men and
the motives which actuate them more than he.  His inward life was pure (Acts 23:1; 24:16).
Paul differed from Christ in that he was a man who sought the cities and drew his illustrations
from them, while Christ was much in the country and drew his illustrations from country life.
But in this study of and work for the city Paul was but carrying out the commands of Christ.

+Industrial.+--It was required of every Jew father that his boy should learn some trade by
which he might support himself should necessity require it.  It was a common Jewish proverb
that "he who taught his son no trade taught him to be a thief."  Paul was taught the trade
of tent making.  "The hair of the Cicilian goats was used to make a cloth which was especially
adapted for tents for travelers, merchants, and soldiers."  He afterwards found this trade
very useful in his missionary work (Acts 18:3; 20:34; 1 Cor. 4:12; 1 Thess. 2:9; 2 Thess. 3:8).

THE WORLD AS PAUL SAW IT

+This World+ was very different from the world as we see it to-day.  This makes it difficult
for us to appreciate his work at its full value.  Now, Christianity is the great religion of
the world; then it was unknown, outside a very limited circle of believers.  The state and
society were organized upon a different basis and were in strong opposition to the new religion.

+Political.+--The world was under the dominion of the Romans.  They, in conquering it, broke
down the barriers that had separated tribe from tribe and nation from nation.  Yet it was a
comparatively small world for all interests centered about the Mediterranean Sea.  Before the
Romans the Greeks had been in possession of a part of this world and had permeated and penetrated
the whole of it, with their art, language, and commerce.  With the upheavals of war and the
tribulations that had befallen the Jews, they were everywhere scattered abroad and had their
synagogues in most of the cities.

+Religious.+--For the Romans, Greeks, and conquered nations and tribes, it was an age of scepticism.
While the gods and goddesses in the great heathen temples still had their rites and ceremonies
observed yet the people, to a large degree, had ceased to believe in them.  The Roman writers
of the period are agreed in the slackening of religious ties and of moral restraints.  Yet
it was the policy of the state to maintain the worship of the gods and goddesses.  Any attack
upon them or their worship was regarded as an offense against the state.

+The Difficulties+ of the situation were threefold: (a) To seek to overturn the religion of
the state constituted an offense which was punishable by stripes and imprisonment; (b) To rebuke
men's sins and the evils of the times stirred up bitter opposition on their part; (c) To proclaim
a crucified and risen Christ as the Messiah to the Jews, when they expected a great conquering
hero, often excited and put them in a rage.

That Paul could preach Christ and establish churches, under all the opposition that he encountered,
shows how fully and implicitly he believed in his Lord.

QUESTIONS

What impression has the man, Paul, made upon the world? What was his work as an apostle?  What
his leading thought? Where is the place of his birth?  What can be said of his family? How
was he educated and trained, in the home, in school, and for a trade?  What was the political
and religious condition of the world as Paul saw it?  What were the three difficulties in the
way of his work in preaching Christ?

I.  PAUL'S PREPARATION

STUDY II

CONVERSION

ANALYSIS

+Paul the Persecutor+--Order of Events.  The Inevitable Conflict. Cruelty of the Persecutor.

+Conversion+--Cause.  Effects (physical, mental and spiritual, penalty, relief to the Christians,
triumph of Christ, and estimates of the results).

+Period of Waiting+--Retirement of Paul.  Reasons.  The Gospel for the Gentiles.  Paul Brought
to Antioch.

I.  PAUL'S PREPARATION

STUDY II

CONVERSION

PAUL, THE PERSECUTOR

+Order of Events.+--It seems to be quite evident, when Paul finished his studies in Jerusalem,
that he left the city and engaged in work somewhere else, during the years when John the Baptist
and Jesus were preaching and teaching.  In all probability he did not return until after the
crucifixion and resurrection of Christ.

Paul first appears in the narrative of the Acts, under the name of Saul, at the martyrdom of
Stephen, where he takes charge of the clothes of the witnesses (Acts 7:58, 59).

From the Ascension of Christ to the martyrdom of Stephen is an important period in the history
of the infant church.  On and after the day of Pentecost (Acts 2) the apostles and followers
of the risen Lord assumed a very bold attitude.  They did not hesitate to speak openly in the
temple (Acts 3:12-16) of the crime of putting "The Prince of Life" to death and asserted that
He was risen from the dead.  The priests and Sadducees strongly objected to this kind of preaching
(Acts 4), laid hands upon the preachers, and put them in prison.  When they were examined the
next day before (Acts 4:5-13) the Jewish tribunal, the apostles spoke even more boldly of Jesus
and his resurrection and refused to be silenced (Acts 4:13-20, 33).  Again an attempt was made
to stop the preaching of the apostles, but they refused to keep still (Acts 5:16-33).  A remarkable
prison deliverance by the "Angel of the Lord" (Acts 5:19, 20) gave them great courage in proclaiming
"all the words of this life."

At this point Gamaliel (Acts 5:34-42) proposes in the Jewish council a new policy, which was
to let the followers of Christ alone, arguing that then they would speedily give up their preaching.
This policy was adopted (Acts 5:40).  But with the election of Stephen as a deacon (Acts 6:1-8)
the followers of Christ began to multiply with great rapidity and it was soon seen that "the
let-alone policy" was a mistake (Acts 6:9-15).  Persecution again breaks out which results
in the death of Stephen (Acts 7), the bringing out of Saul as the arch persecutor, and the
scattering of the church (Acts 8:1-4).

+The Inevitable Conflict.+--Had the early Christians been content to have proclaimed Jesus
Christ to be but a great teacher and prophet, they would in all probability have become a Jewish
sect and been speedily lost to sight. But extraordinary claims were put forth that Jesus Christ
was the promised Messiah (Acts 2:25-40), the Son of God (Acts 3:26), the Forgiver of sins (Acts
2:38; 5:31), that He was risen from the dead (Acts 4:33), that obedience to Him was above that
to the Jewish rulers (Acts 4:18-20), that the Jews had wickedly slain Christ (Acts 3:14, 15),
and that salvation was only through Him (Acts 4:12).  Further than this they wrought miracles
in the name of Jesus Christ (Acts 3:2-8, 16; 2:43; 5:12).

It was very soon plainly seen that Christianity could keep no truce, and proposed to keep no
truce, which called in question or denied the supremacy of Christ.

+The Cruelty of the Persecutor.+--To a man of Paul's temperament and zeal there could be no
half way measures in a case like this.  He could not be content to bide his time.  Either the
claims of Christ were true or false.  If false, then they were doing harm and His doctrine
and teaching must be eradicated at any cost.  All the aggressive forces of the Jews found a
champion in this Saul of Tarsus.  Drastic measures were at once inaugurated. There was to be
no more temporizing.  The cruelty and thoroughness of the persecutor, in his work, are shown
in his instituting a house to house canvass seeking for the Christians and sparing neither
age nor sex (Acts 8:1, 3).

In the first persecutions the Jews had been content to arrest and imprison those who publicly
preached Christ, but now the policy was changed and Christianity was to be exterminated root
and branch.  All believers in Christ were to be hunted out.

The character of Saul, the arch persecutor, is shown in the characterization of him by Luke,
when he represented him as breathing out, "threatenings and slaughter against the disciples
of the Lord" (Acts 9:1).

CONVERSION

+Cause.+--The book of the Acts, opened at one place, shows a fierce hater and persecutor of
the Christians (8:3), opened at another place it shows this same persecutor as an ardent and
enthusiastic preacher of the faith in Jesus Christ (13:16-39)  We seek for the cause of this
remarkable change.  Luke tells us that Saul was on his way to Damascus, seeking victims for
his persecuting zeal, when Jesus suddenly appeared to him and Saul was changed from a persecutor
to a believer in Christ (Acts 9:3-7). The account is very brief.  For an event which has had
such tremendous results, the narrator is very reticent; a light from heaven, a voice speaking,
and a person declaring that He is Jesus.  Paul gives us two accounts of his conversion and
how it took place (Acts 22:6-15; 26:12-18).  The men who were with Paul saw a light and heard
a voice, but not what was said.  It is impossible to describe or exaggerate what took place
in Paul's mind in those brief moments while Jesus talked to him; but his beliefs, and his whole
life plan were radically changed.  It had been well if no explanation of this conversion had
been attempted and the great fact had been left to stand as it does in the Acts.  Attempts,
however, have been made to minimize the power of this conversion and the marvelous and sudden
change it wrought in the character and life of Paul.  Some critics seeking a natural, rather
than a supernatural, cause have attributed to Paul certain compunctions of conscience and misgivings
about his persecution of the Christians, together with a hot day and a certain temperament,
which led him to have a subjective experience, which he thought was real.  But there is no
recorded evidence forthcoming that Paul ever had any compunctions of conscience about persecuting
the Christians.  Paul was an honest man to the very core of his being; in the two accounts
he gives us of this conversion, and in incidental references to it, he never even hints at
any such state of mind.  The expression used by Jesus, "It is hard for thee to kick against
the pricks" (Acts 9-5), of which so much has been made, means no more than that Saul's opposition
and hard work against the Christians (Acts 8:3; 9:1), would be of no avail.  In doing what
he did Paul thought he was doing God's service.  Again the language which Paul uses and the
references which he makes to this appearance of Christ forbid us to think that it was only
a mere vision of Christ which he saw. (1 Cor. 15:1-8).  In these appearances Jesus had eaten
with his disciples and been touched by them (John 20:24-31; Luke 24:36-43), appearing as a
real being, according to the narrative.

"It was the appearance to Paul of the risen Lord, which made him a Christian, gave him a gospel
to preach, and sent him forth as the apostle of the Gentiles."

The time of Paul's conversion was about 36 A.D.

+Effects.+--There is no question as to the very marked results which followed the appearance
of the risen Lord to Saul on the way to Damascus.

1.  Physical.  He was smitten with blindness (Acts 9:8), and was without food for three days
(Acts 9:9). His sight was restored by Ananias at the command of the Lord (Acts 9:15-18).

2.  Mental and spiritual.  His whole outlook upon life and its significance was changed.  He
received baptism and was filled with the Holy Spirit (Acts 9:17).  From being a persecutor
he became an enthusiastic witness for Christ (Acts 9:20-22).

3.  Penalty.  The consequences of his former course of action were visited upon him; for the
Jews sought to kill him and the disciples of Christ were at first afraid of him (Acts 9:23-26).
But Barnabas vouched for his sincerity (Acts 9:27).

4.  The relief to the Christians at Damascus, when Saul was converted, was very great.  They
had looked forward to his coming with dread.

5.  The triumph of Christ.  In Paul Christianity won its most efficient missionary and, next
to Christ, its greatest thinker, preacher, and teacher.

6.  The estimates of the results of this conversion of Saul cannot be too large; they are world
wide.

PERIOD OF WAITING

+Retirement of Paul.+--From the conversion of Paul (Acts 9:3-7) to his call to the missionary
work (Acts 13:2) is a period of about ten years.  During this time we have only incidental
notices of him and what he was doing.  When we think of it there is nothing strange in this
retirement.  It is the divine method, as in the case of Moses, when a man is to do a very large
work for God that he should be well prepared for it.  The chief scripture notices of this period
of retirement are found in Acts 9:19-30; Gal. 1:15-24; (Acts 11:25-30; 12:25). From these notices
it is quite plain: (a) That Paul retired into Arabia.  (b) That he preached in Damascus and
Jerusalem, but was compelled to flee from both cities on account of the persecutions of the
Jews, who sought his life.  (c) That he went to Tarsus and "into the regions of Syria and Cilicia."
(d) That he came to Antioch, where there was a great revival (Acts 11:25-30), at the solicitation
of Barnabas.  Luke in his account (Acts 9:19-30) does not mention the trip to Arabia spoken
of by Paul in his epistle to the Galatians (1:15-24).  It must be remembered however that each
is writing from a different point of view.  Luke is a historian recording only the most salient
facts and passing over the mention of many events.  We see this in the compression in eight
and a half short chapters of the events of the three missionary journeys.  Paul writing to
the Galatians is anxious to establish the fact that he received his commission, as an apostle,
not from man, but from Christ himself (Gal. 1:1); hence he enters more into details and we
get from him the inside view.  The accounts of Luke and Paul if read carefully, keeping in
mind all the circumstances, are seen not to be in any way antagonistic, but to supplement each
other.

+Reasons.+--Many reasons have been given for the retirement of Paul to Arabia, and what seems
to be the period of comparative inactivity that followed it.

1.  Fierce opposition on the part of the Jews whenever Paul attempted to preach, as in the
cities of Damascus and Jerusalem.

2.  A preparation of mind and heart for his great work.  As a thinker he needed to look upon
all sides of the gospel, which he was afterwards to preach so effectively to the Gentiles.

3.  A careful rereading of the Old Testament.  As a Jew he had read the Scriptures in one way,
now he reread them seeing Christ there.

4.  System of doctrine.  He may at this time have wrought out that magnificent system of Christian
doctrine which he afterwards presented to the churches in his Epistles.

+The Gospel for the Gentiles.+--While Paul was waiting for the call to his great missionary
work there came a new crisis in the history of the early church, and a new era was inaugurated.
In the tenth and eleventh chapters of the book of Acts Luke tells us of the conversion of the
Gentile Cornelius, "a centurion of the band called the Italian band" (Acts 10:1-8), and of
the instructions given to Peter to receive him (Acts 10:9-44).

Cornelius was the first Gentile convert and we note here the beginning of the preaching of
the gospel to the Gentiles, which was to have such large results.  "The day of Pentecost, the
conversion of Saul of Tarsus, the call of Cornelius and the foundation of the Gentile church
at Antioch are, if we are to pick and choose amid the events related by Luke, the turning points
of the earliest ecclesiastical history."  How great and epoch making was this new departure
of preaching the gospel to the Gentiles, and receiving them into the church, is shown in the
eleventh chapter of the Acts (11:1-18) where, when Peter goes up to Jerusalem, he is put on
the defensive and compelled to explain why he received Cornelius into the church.  When however
the matter was fully explained the early disciples rejoiced over the fact that to the Gentiles
was granted by God repentance unto life (Acts 11:18).

+Paul Brought to Antioch+ by Barnabas, on account of the revival that had broken out in that
city, is another step which he takes up to his work as the great missionary to the Gentiles
(Acts 11:25-26).  It was here that the disciples were first called Christians (Acts 11:26).
It was from this city that Paul went forth on his missionary journeys and it was here that
he returned (Acts 13:1-3; 14:26; 15:24-41; 18:22; 18:23).

"Antioch was the capital of the Greek kingdom of Syria, and afterwards the residence of the
Roman governor of the province.  It was made a free city by Pompey the Great, and contained
an aqueduct, amphitheater, baths, and colonnades.  It was situated on the Orontes about twenty
miles from the mouth of the river.  Its sea-port was Seleucia.  It was intimately connected
with apostolic Christianity.  Here the first Gentile church was formed" (Acts 11:20, 21).

QUESTIONS

Give the order of events which led to the persecution in which Paul was so prominent.  Why
was the conflict between Christianity and Judaism inevitable?  What can be said of the cruelty
of Paul, the persecutor?  Give the cause of Paul's conversion.  What were some of the effects?
What can be said of the period of waiting; the retirement of Paul?  What are some of the probable
reasons for this retirement?  What can be said about the beginning of the gospel to the Gentiles?
By whom was Paul brought to Antioch and for what purpose?  In what relation does Antioch stand
to the missionary journeys of Paul?

II.  PAUL'S JOURNEYS

Acts 13:1-28:31

STUDY III

FIRST MISSIONARY JOURNEY

Scripture, Acts 13:1-14:26

ANALYSIS

+Introduction to the Three Missionary Journeys+--The call.  The Significance.  Extent and Time.
The Record.  Other Long Journeys.  Method of Work and Support.  The Message.

+The First Journey+--Preparation.  Companions.  Paul Comes to the Front.  Time and Extent.  Rulers.

+The Itinerary+--Salamis.  Paphos.  Perga.  Antioch.  Iconium. Lystra and Derbe.  The Return
Journey.

+The Jerusalem Council+--One Problem of the Early Church.  The Decision of the Council.

II.

We have now arrived at what we might call the watershed of the Acts of the Apostles.  Hitherto
we have had various scenes, characters, personages to consider. Henceforth Paul, his labors,
his disputes, his speeches, occupy the entire field, and every other man who is introduced
into the narrative plays a subordinate part.

Our attention is now turned from the Jewish world, considered so largely in the first twelve
chapters of the Acts, to the heathen world and the struggle which Paul and his fellow laborers
had with it, in bringing it to Christ.

+The Call+ to this work was by the Holy Ghost in the city of Antioch (Acts 13:1-4).  Contrast
this with the beginning of the work in Jerusalem which was also inaugurated by the Holy Ghost
on the day of Pentecost (Acts 1:14; 2:1-4).  This call was in accordance with what Jesus had
told his disciples before His ascension (Acts 1:8).

The agency of the Holy Ghost in directing and promoting this missionary work is very manifest
(Acts 13:2, 4, 9, 52; 15:8, 28; 16:6; 19:2, 6; 20:23, 28; 21:11; 28:25).

+The Significance+ and importance of these journeys cannot be overestimated.  It is probable,
when the call came, that Paul had but little idea of their magnitude and that in the end they
would result in changing not only the religion, but the philosophy and civilization of the world.

+Extent and Time.+--It is estimated that the first journey was 1,400 miles long, the second
3,200, and the third 3,500, making 8,100 miles traveled by Paul. The time occupied for the
three journeys was about ten years.

+The Record+ of the three missionary journeys, is briefly comprised in eight and a half chapters
(Acts 13:1-21:17), and it does not profess to be a complete one.  Only the most striking incidents
and events, and probably not all of these, are given.  There were side trips not recorded by
Luke; Paul speaks of one to Illyricum (Rom. 15:19), and of others in which he underwent great
perils (2 Cor. 11:24-27).

The purpose of Luke seems to be to show how, in accordance with the command and promise of
Christ, the knowledge and power of the gospel was spread, beginning in Jerusalem, through Judea,
and Samaria, throughout the heathen world (Acts 1:8); everything seems to be made to bend to
this purpose.  Certainly there could be no more graphic and concise account of these epoch
making events than that given us by this wonderful narrator.

+Other Long Journeys.+--1.  Paul's voyage to Rome as a prisoner.  Luke gives a full account
of this voyage, its many interesting incidents (Acts 27:1-28:16), and of the circumstances
which led up to it (Acts 21:17-27:1).

2.  There is every reason to believe that Paul was released at the end of his two years imprisonment
in Rome (Acts 28:30) and that he made an Eastern journey as far as Colossæ and a Western journey
as far as Spain.

NOTE.--These last journeys are considered in chapter ten.

+Method of Work and Support.+--Paul and his companion, or company, when they entered into a
city would first seek for a lodging and then for work, going from one tent maker's door to
another until finally a place was found.  Then upon the following Sabbath they would seek the
Jewish synagogue and after the reading of the Scriptures, when an opportunity was given, Paul
would arise and begin to speak, (Acts 13:14-16) leading up through the Old Testament message
(Acts 13:17-43) to the great topic of Jesus Christ as the promised Messiah and closing with
an exhortation to believe on Him.  Such a speech would naturally excite great interest coming
from the lips of one, who by his speech and the handling of the Old Testament, would be recognized
as a cultivated Jewish Rabbi.  Paul would be asked to speak again the next Sabbath (Acts 13:44-52),
the synagogue would be full of people and he would set forth Jesus Christ more plainly as the
Savior both of Jew and Gentile.  This would generally be a signal for the Jews to contradict
and oppose Paul, but some Jews would believe with a number of Gentiles.  This would be the
starting point of the Christian church in that community.  The Jews, however, who were untouched
by what Paul preached, and who looked upon him as the destroyer of their religion, would raise
a cry against him and seek to have him expelled from the city.  This experience was frequently
repeated.  There were great difficulties also to be encountered when the heathen thought that
their worship was in danger (Acts 19:20-30).

+The Message+ which Paul bore to Jew and Gentile was the moving force of all his work.  The
starting point was the memorable day when Jesus Christ appeared to him on his way to Damascus.
Paul believed that he received his commission as an apostle directly from Jesus Christ (Gal.
1:1-24).  The four main positions of Paul, set forth so plainly in his Epistle to the Romans,
are: (a) All are guilty before God (Jew and Gentile).  (b) All need a Savior.  (c) Christ died
for all.  (d) We are all (through faith) one body in Christ.  Paul leaves us in no doubt as
to how he regards Jesus Christ.  He is to him the Son of God, through whom God created all
things and who is the Divine Savior of man (Eph. 3:9-21; Phil. 2:9-11; Rom. 9:5).  There is
no doubt, no hesitation on Paul's part in delivering his message.  He is a witness, testifying
to the glory of his Divine Lord.  He is a messenger who cannot alter or tamper with that which
has been entrusted to him.  To the rude inhabitants of the mountain regions of Asia Minor,
to the philosophers in Athens, to the Roman governors in Cæsarea, to the dwellers in Corinth
and in Rome the purport of the Message is always the same.

THE FIRST JOURNEY

Scripture, Acts 13:1-14:28

+Preparation.+--First, on the part of Paul.  About ten years have passed since his conversion.
During this time we have few notices of him, but he was undoubtedly making ready for this very
important work of a missionary. Second, on the part of the church.  The first step had already
been taken, in the conversion of Cornelius, in the giving of the gospel to the Gentile world.
Third, Paul was brought to Antioch by Barnabas to assist the church in the great revival which
broke out in that second early center of Christian work and teaching (Acts 11:21-26). Fourth,
the large success of the disciples who went throughout Judea and Samaria, preaching the gospel,
after the death of Stephen (Acts 7:5-8:4; 11:19-21) made possible this new aggressive movement
to the regions beyond.  Fifth, the Christian prophets and teachers at Antioch "ministered to
the Lord and fasted."  They desired to know the will of the Lord and it was made known to them
by the Holy Ghost.  "And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they
sent them away."  "So they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed unto Seleucia (Acts
13:3, 4).

+Companions of the Journey+, Barnabas and Saul (Acts 13:2) and John Mark (Acts 13:5).  Barnabas
has been called the discoverer of Saul.  He was probably a convert of the day of Pentecost.
He was a land proprietor of the island of Cyprus and early showed his zeal for Christ by selling
his land and devoting the proceeds to the cause in which he so heartily believed (Acts 4:36,
37).  He early sought out and manifested, in a very practical way, his friendship for Paul
(Acts 9:27; 11:22, 25, 30; 12:25).  John Mark, who started on this journey with Barnabas and
Saul, was a nephew of Barnabas (Acts 13:5, 13; 12:25; Col. 4:10).

+Paul Comes to the Front+ when his company leave Paphos and ever after he has the first place
(Acts 13: 13).  Here also he is called Paul for the first time, a name which he retains.

+Extent and Time+--This was the shortest of the three journeys (about 1,400 miles).  It extended
over the island of Cyprus and a part of Asia Minor.  In time it occupied about three years,
47-50 A.D.

+Rulers+--Claudius was the emperor of Rome, since 41 A.D.  Herod Agrippa was king of Chalcis,
Ananias was high priest in Jerusalem.

THE ITINERARY

NOTE.--The cities, which Paul visited in this and the other journeys, should be located upon
the map by the student.  It will greatly increase the interest to consult some good Bible dictionary
and get well acquainted also with the history of the places.

+Salamis+, on the island of Cyprus, was the first place reached, after sailing from Seleucia
(Acts 13:4, 5) the sea-port of Antioch.  It was the natural thing to go first to this island
as it had been the home of Barnabas and many Jews had settled there; it was about eighty miles
to the southwest of Seleucia.

+Paphos.+--After passing through the island from east to west the missionaries came to Paphos.
This city was the seat of the worship of Venus, the goddess of love. This worship was carried
on with the most degrading of immoralities.

