1601

Conversation as it was by the Social Fireside in the Time of the Tudors

By Mark Twain

INTRODUCTION

"Born irreverent," scrawled Mark Twain on a scratch pad, "--like all other people I have ever
known or heard of--I am hoping to remain so while there are any reverent irreverences left
to make fun of." --[Holograph manuscript of Samuel L. Clemens, in the collection of the F.
J. Meine]

Mark Twain was just as irreverent as he dared be, and 1601 reveals his richest expression of
sovereign contempt for overstuffed language, genteel literature, and conventional idiocies.
Later, when a magazine editor apostrophized, "O that we had a Rabelais!" Mark impishly and
anonymously--submitted 1601; and that same editor, a praiser of Rabelais, scathingly abused
it and the sender. In this episode, as in many others, Mark Twain, the "bad boy" of American
literature, revealed his huge delight in blasting the shams of contemporary hypocrisy. Too,
there was always the spirit of Tom Sawyer deviltry in Mark's make-up that prompted him, as
he himself boasted, to see how much holy indignation he could stir up in the world.

WHO WROTE 1601?

The correct and complete title of 1601, as first issued, was: [Date, 1601.] 'Conversation,
as it was by the Social Fireside, in the Time of the Tudors.' For many years after its anonymous
first issue in 1880, its authorship was variously conjectured and widely disputed. In Boston,
William T. Ball, one of the leading theatrical critics during the late 90's, asserted that
it was originally written by an English actor (name not divulged) who gave it to him. Ball's
original, it was said, looked like a newspaper strip in the way it was printed, and may indeed
have been a proof pulled in some newspaper office. In St. Louis, William Marion Reedy, editor
of the St. Louis Mirror, had seen this famous tour de force circulated in the early 80's in
galley-proof form; he first learned from Eugene Field that it was from the pen of Mark Twain.

"Many people," said Reedy, "thought the thing was done by Field and attributed, as a joke,
to Mark Twain. Field had a perfect genius for that sort of thing, as many extant specimens
attest, and for that sort of practical joke; but to my thinking the humor of the piece is too
mellow--not hard and bright and bitter--to be Eugene Field's." Reedy's opinion hits off the
fundamental difference between these two great humorists; one half suspects that Reedy was
thinking of Field's French Crisis.

But Twain first claimed his bantling from the fog of anonymity in 1906, in a letter addressed
to Mr. Charles Orr, librarian of Case Library, Cleveland. Said Clemens, in the course of his
letter, dated July 30, 1906, from Dublin, New Hampshire:

"The title of the piece is 1601. The piece is a supposititious conversation which takes place
in Queen Elizabeth's closet in that year, between the Queen, Ben Jonson, Beaumont, Sir Walter
Raleigh, the Duchess of Bilgewater, and one or two others, and is not, as John Hay mistakenly
supposes, a serious effort to bring back our literature and philosophy to the sober and chaste
Elizabeth's time; if there is a decent word findable in it, it is because I overlooked it.
I hasten to assure you that it is not printed in my published writings."

TWITTING THE REV. JOSEPH TWICHELL

The circumstances of how 1601 came to be written have since been officially revealed by Albert
Bigelow Paine in 'Mark Twain, A Bibliography' (1912), and in the publication of Mark Twain's
Notebook (1935).

1601 was written during the summer of 1876 when the Clemens family had retreated to Quarry
Farm in Elmira County, New York. Here Mrs. Clemens enjoyed relief from social obligations,
the children romped over the countryside, and Mark retired to his octagonal study, which, perched
high on the hill, looked out upon the valley below. It was in the famous summer of 1876, too,
that Mark was putting the finishing touches to Tom Sawyer. Before the close of the same year
he had already begun work on 'The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn', published in 1885. It is
interesting to note the use of the title, the "Duke of Bilgewater," in Huck Finn when the "Duchess
of Bilgewater" had already made her appearance in 1601. Sandwiched between his two great masterpieces,
Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn, the writing of 1601 was indeed a strange interlude.

During this prolific period Mark wrote many minor items, most of them rejected by Howells,
and read extensively in one of his favorite books, Pepys' Diary.

"It was written as a letter," continues Paine, "to that robust divine, Rev. Joseph Twichell,
who, unlike Howells, had no scruples about Mark's 'Elizabethan breadth of parlance.'"

The Rev. Joseph Twichell, Mark's most intimate friend for over forty years, was pastor of the
Asylum Hill Congregational Church of Hartford, which Mark facetiously called the "Church of
the Holy Speculators," because of its wealthy parishioners. Here Mark had first met "Joe" at
a social, and their meeting ripened into a glorious, life long friendship. Twichell was a man
of about Mark's own age, a profound scholar, a devout Christian, "yet a man with an exuberant
sense of humor, and a profound understanding of the frailties of mankind." The Rev. Mr. Twichell
performed the marriage ceremony for Mark Twain and solemnized the births of his children; "Joe,"
his friend, counseled him on literary as well as personal matters for the remainder of Mark's
life. It is important to catch this brief glimpse of the man for whom this masterpiece was
written, for without it one can not fully understand the spirit in which 1601 was written,
or the keen enjoyment which Mark and "Joe" derived from it.

"SAVE ME ONE."

The story of the first issue of 1601 is one of finesse, state diplomacy, and surreptitious
printing.

The Rev. "Joe" Twichell, for whose delectation the piece had been written, apparently had pocketed
the document for four long years. Then, in 1880, it came into the hands of John Hay, later
Secretary of State, presumably sent to him by Mark Twain. Hay pronounced the sketch a masterpiece,
and wrote immediately to his old Cleveland friend, Alexander Gunn, prince of connoisseurs in
art and literature. The following correspondence reveals the fine diplomacy which made the
name of John Hay known throughout the world.

DEPARTMENT OF STATE

Washington, June 21, 1880.

Dear Gunn:

Are you in Cleveland for all this week? If you will say yes by return mail, I have a masterpiece
to submit to your consideration which is only in my hands for a few days.

Yours, very much worritted by the depravity of Christendom,

Hay

The second letter discloses Hay's own high opinion of the effort and his deep concern for its
safety.

June 24, 1880

My dear Gunn:

Here it is. It was written by Mark Twain in a serious effort to bring back our literature and
philosophy to the sober and chaste Elizabethan standard. But the taste of the present day is
too corrupt for anything so classic. He has not yet been able even to find a publisher. The
Globe has not yet recovered from Downey's inroad, and they won't touch it.

I send it to you as one of the few lingering relics of that race of appreciative critics, who
know a good thing when they see it.

Read it with reverence and gratitude and send it back to me; for Mark is impatient to see once
more his wandering offspring.

Yours,

Hay.

In his third letter one can almost hear Hay's chuckle in the certainty that his diplomatic,
if somewhat wicked, suggestion would bear fruit.

Washington, D. C.July 7, 1880

My dear Gunn:

I have your letter, and the proposition which you make to pull a few proofs of the masterpiece
is highly attractive, and of course highly immoral. I cannot properly consent to it, and I
am afraid the great many would think I was taking an unfair advantage of his confidence. Please
send back the document as soon as you can, and if, in spite of my prohibition, you take these
proofs, save me one.

Very truly yours,

John Hay.

Thus was this Elizabethan dialogue poured into the moulds of cold type. According to Merle
Johnson, Mark Twain's bibliographer, it was issued in pamphlet form, without wrappers or covers;
there were 8 pages of text and the pamphlet measured 7 by 8 1/2 inches. Only four copies are
believed to have been printed, one for Hay, one for Gunn, and two for Twain.

"In the matter of humor," wrote Clemens, referring to Hay's delicious notes, "what an unsurpassable
touch John Hay had!"

HUMOR AT WEST POINT

The first printing of 1601 in actual book form was "Donne at ye Academie Press," in 1882, West
Point, New York, under the supervision of Lieut. C. E. S. Wood, then adjutant of the U. S.
Military Academy.

In 1882 Mark Twain and Joe Twichell visited their friend Lieut. Wood at West Point, where they
learned that Wood, as Adjutant, had under his control a small printing establishment. On Mark's
return to Hartford, Wood received a letter asking if he would do Mark a great favor by printing
something he had written, which he did not care to entrust to the ordinary printer. Wood replied
that he would be glad to oblige. On April 3, 1882, Mark sent the manuscript:

"I enclose the original of 1603 [sic] as you suggest. I am afraid there are errors in it, also,
heedlessness in antiquated spelling--e's stuck on often at end of words where they are not
strictly necessary, etc..... I would go through the manuscript but I am too much driven just
now, and it is not important anyway. I wish you would do me the kindness to make any and all
corrections that suggest themselves to you.

"Sincerely yours,

"S. L. Clemens."

Charles Erskine Scott Wood recalled in a foreword, which he wrote for the limited edition of
1601 issued by the Grabhorn Press, how he felt when he first saw the original manuscript. "When
I read it," writes Wood, "I felt that the character of it would be carried a little better
by a printing which pretended to the eye that it was contemporaneous with the pretended 'conversation.'

"I wrote Mark that for literary effect I thought there should be a species of forgery, though
of course there was no effort to actually deceive a scholar. Mark answered that I might do
as I liked;--that his only object was to secure a number of copies, as the demand for it was
becoming burdensome, but he would be very grateful for any interest I brought to the doing.

"Well, Tucker [foreman of the printing shop] and I soaked some handmade linen paper in weak
coffee, put it as a wet bundle into a warm room to mildew, dried it to a dampness approved
by Tucker and he printed the 'copy' on a hand press. I had special punches cut for such Elizabethan
abbreviations as the a, e, o and u, when followed by m or n--and for the (commonly and stupidly
pronounced ye).

"The only editing I did was as to the spelling and a few old English words introduced. The
spelling, if I remember correctly, is mine, but the text is exactly as written by Mark. I wrote
asking his view of making the spelling of the period and he was enthusiastic--telling me to
do whatever I thought best and he was greatly pleased with the result."

Thus was printed in a de luxe edition of fifty copies the most curious masterpiece of American
humor, at one of America's most dignified institutions, the United States Military Academy
at West Point.

"1601 was so be-praised by the archaeological scholars of a quarter of a century ago," wrote
Clemens in his letter to Charles Orr, "that I was rather inordinately vain of it. At that time
it had been privately printed in several countries, among them Japan. A sumptuous edition on
large paper, rough-edged, was made by Lieut. C. E. S. Wood at West Point --an edition of 50
copies--and distributed among popes and kings and such people. In England copies of that issue
were worth twenty guineas when I was there six years ago, and none to be had."

FROM THE DEPTHS

Mark Twain's irreverence should not be misinterpreted: it was an irreverence which bubbled
up from a deep, passionate insight into the well-springs of human nature. In 1601, as in 'The
Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg,' and in 'The Mysterious Stranger,' he tore the masks off human
beings and left them cringing before the public view. With the deftness of a master surgeon
Clemens dealt with human emotions and delighted in exposing human nature in the raw.

The spirit and the language of the Fireside Conversation were rooted deep in Mark Twain's nature
and in his life, as C. E. S. Wood, who printed 1601 at West Point, has pertinently observed,

"If I made a guess as to the intellectual ferment out of which 1601 rose I would say that Mark's
intellectual structure and subconscious graining was from Anglo-Saxons as primitive as the
common man of the Tudor period. He came from the banks of the Mississippi--from the flatboatmen,
pilots, roustabouts, farmers and village folk of a rude, primitive people--as Lincoln did.

"He was finished in the mining camps of the West among stage drivers, gamblers and the men
of '49. The simple roughness of a frontier people was in his blood and brain.

"Words vulgar and offensive to other ears were a common language to him. Anyone who ever knew
Mark heard him use them freely, forcibly, picturesquely in his unrestrained conversation. Such
language is forcible as all primitive words are. Refinement seems to make for weakness--or
let us say a cutting edge--but the old vulgar monosyllabic words bit like the blow of a pioneer's
ax--and Mark was like that. Then I think 1601 came out of Mark's instinctive humor, satire
and hatred of puritanism. But there is more than this; with all its humor there is a sense
of real delight in what may be called obscenity for its own sake. Whitman and the Bible are
no more obscene than Nature herself--no more obscene than a manure pile, out of which come
roses and cherries. Every word used in 1601 was used by our own rude pioneers as a part of
their vocabulary--and no word was ever invented by man with obscene intent, but only as language
to express his meaning. No act of nature is obscene in itself--but when such words and acts
are dragged in for an ulterior purpose they become offensive, as everything out of place is
offensive. I think he delighted, too, in shocking--giving resounding slaps on what Chaucer
would quite simply call 'the bare erse.'"

Quite aside from this Chaucerian "erse" slapping, Clemens had also a semi-serious purpose,
that of reproducing a past time as he saw it in Shakespeare, Dekker, Jonson, and other writers
of the Elizabethan era. Fireside Conversation was an exercise in scholarship illumined by a
keen sense of character. It was made especially effective by the artistic arrangement of widely-gathered
material into a compressed picture of a phase of the manners and even the minds of the men
and women "in the spacious times of great Elizabeth."

Mark Twain made of 1601 a very smart and fascinating performance, carried over almost to grotesqueness
just to show it was not done for mere delight in the frank naturalism of the functions with
which it deals.

Mark Twain's interest in history and in the depiction of historical periods and characters
is revealed through his fondness for historical reading in preference to fiction, and through
his other historical writings. Paine tells us, too, that Lecky's 'European Morals' was an old
favorite.

The notes to 'The Prince and the Pauper' show again how carefully Clemens examined his historical
background, and his interest in these materials. Some of the more important sources are noted:
Hume's 'History of England', Timbs' 'Curiosities of London', J. Hammond Trumbull's 'Blue Laws,
True and False'. Apparently Mark Twain relished it, for as Bernard DeVoto points out, "The
book is always Mark Twain. Its parodies of Tudor speech lapse sometimes into a callow satisfaction
in that idiom--Mark hugely enjoys his nathlesses and beshrews and marrys." The writing of 1601
foreshadows his fondness for this treatment.

     "Do you suppose the liberties and the Brawn of These States have to
     do only with delicate lady-words?  with gloved gentleman words"
                              Walt Whitman, 'An American Primer'.

Although 1601 was not matched by any similar sketch in his published works, it was representative
of Mark Twain the man. He was no emaciated literary tea-tosser. Bronzed and weatherbeaten son
of the West, Mark was a man's man, and that significant fact is emphasized by the several phases
of Mark's rich life as steamboat pilot, printer, miner, and frontier journalist.

On the Virginia City Enterprise Mark learned from editor R. M. Daggett that "when it was necessary
to call a man names, there were no expletives too long or too expressive to be hurled in rapid
succession to emphasize the utter want of character of the man assailed.... There were typesetters
there who could hurl anathemas at bad copy which would have frightened a Bengal tiger. The
news editor could damn a mutilated dispatch in twenty-four languages."

In San Francisco in the sizzling sixties we catch a glimpse of Mark Twain and his buddy, Steve
Gillis, pausing in doorways to sing "The Doleful Ballad of the Neglected Lover," an old piece
of uncollected erotica.

"'Come here, Steve,' he said.

Nor did Mark's "geysers of profanity" cease spouting after these gay and youthful days in San
Francisco. With Clemens it may truly be said that profanity was an art--a pyrotechnic art that
entertained nations.

"It was my duty to keep buttons on his shirts," recalled Katy Leary, life-long housekeeper
and friend in the Clemens menage, "and he'd swear something terrible if I didn't. If he found
a shirt in his drawer without a button on, he'd take every single shirt out of that drawer
and throw them right out of the window, rain or shine--out of the bathroom window they'd go.
I used to look out every morning to see the snowflakes--anything white. Out they'd fly....
Oh! he'd swear at anything when he was on a rampage. He'd swear at his razor if it didn't cut
right, and Mrs. Clemens used to send me around to the bathroom door sometimes to knock and
ask him what was the matter. Well, I'd go and knock; I'd say, 'Mrs. Clemens wants to know what's
the matter.' And then he'd say to me (kind of low) in a whisper like, 'Did she hear me Katy?'
'Yes,' I'd say, 'every word.' Oh, well, he was ashamed then, he was afraid of getting scolded
for swearing like that, because Mrs. Clemens hated swearing." But his swearing never seemed
really bad to Katy Leary, "It was sort of funny, and a part of him, somehow," she said. "Sort
of amusing it was--and gay--not like real swearing, 'cause he swore like an angel."

In his later years at Stormfield Mark loved to play his favorite billiards. "It was sometimes
a wonderful and fearsome thing to watch Mr. Clemens play billiards," relates Elizabeth Wallace.
"He loved the game, and he loved to win, but he occasionally made a very bad stroke, and then
the varied, picturesque, and unorthodox vocabulary, acquired in his more youthful years, was
the only thing that gave him comfort. Gently, slowly, with no profane inflexions of voice,
but irresistibly as though they had the headwaters of the Mississippi for their source, came
this stream of unholy adjectives and choice expletives."

Mark's vocabulary ran the whole gamut of life itself. It is rumored to have been called "Some
Remarks on the Science of Onanism."

In Berlin, Mark asked Henry W. Fisher to accompany him on an exploration of the Berlin Royal
Library, where the librarian, having learned that Clemens had been the Kaiser's guest at dinner,
opened the secret treasure chests for the famous visitor. One of these guarded treasures was
a volume of grossly indecent verses by Voltaire, addressed to Frederick the Great. "Too much
is enough," Mark is reported to have said, when Fisher translated some of the verses, "I would
blush to remember any of these stanzas except to tell Krafft-Ebing about them when I get to
Vienna." When Fisher had finished copying a verse for him Mark put it into his pocket, saying,
"Livy [Mark's wife, Olivia] is so busy mispronouncing German these days she can't even attempt
to get at this."

          "With a nigger squat on her safety-valve"
                         John Hay, Pike County Ballads.

"Is there any other explanation," asks Van Wyck Brooks, "'of his Elizabethan breadth of parlance?'
Mr. Howells confesses that he sometimes blushed over Mark Twain's letters, that there were
some which, to the very day when he wrote his eulogy on his dead friend, he could not bear
to reread. Perhaps if he had not so insisted, in former years, while going over Mark Twain's
proofs, upon 'having that swearing out in an instant,' he would never had had cause to suffer
from his having 'loosed his bold fancy to stoop on rank suggestion.' Mark Twain's verbal Rabelaisianism
was obviously the expression of that vital sap which, not having been permitted to inform his
work, had been driven inward and left thereto ferment. No wonder he was always indulging in
orgies of forbidden words. Consider the famous book, 1601, that fireside conversation in the
time of Queen Elizabeth: is there any obsolete verbal indecency in the English language that
Mark Twain has not painstakingly resurrected and assembled there? He, whose blood was in constant
ferment and who could not contain within the narrow bonds that had been set for him the riotous
exuberance of his nature, had to have an escape-valve, and he poured through it a fetid stream
of meaningless obscenity--the waste of a priceless psychic material!" Thus, Brooks lumps 1601
with Mark Twain's "bawdry," and interprets it simply as another indication of frustration.

FIGS FOR FIG LEAVES!

Of course, the writing of such a piece as 1601 raised the question of freedom of expression
for the creative artist.

Although little discussed at that time, it was a question which intensely interested Mark,
and for a fuller appreciation of Mark's position one must keep in mind the year in which 1601
was written, 1876. There had been nothing like it before in American literature; there had
appeared no Caldwells, no Faulkners, no Hemingways. Victorian England was gushing Tennyson.
In the United States polite letters was a cult of the Brahmins of Boston, with William Dean
Howells at the helm of the Atlantic. Louisa May Alcott published Little Women in 1868-69, and
Little Men in 1871. In 1873 Mark Twain led the van of the debunkers, scraping the gilt off
the lily in the Gilded Age.

In 1880 Mark took a few pot shots at license in Art and Literature in his Tramp Abroad, "I
wonder why some things are? For instance, Art is allowed as much indecent license to-day as
in earlier times--but the privileges of Literature in this respect have been sharply curtailed
within the past eighty or ninety years. Fielding and Smollet could portray the beastliness
of their day in the beastliest language; we have plenty of foul subjects to deal with in our
day, but we are not allowed to approach them very near, even with nice and guarded forms of
speech. But not so with Art. The brush may still deal freely with any subject; however revolting
or indelicate. It makes a body ooze sarcasm at every pore, to go about Rome and Florence and
see what this last generation has been doing with the statues. These works, which had stood
in innocent nakedness for ages, are all fig-leaved now. Yes, every one of them. Nobody noticed
their nakedness before, perhaps; nobody can help noticing it now, the fig-leaf makes it so
conspicuous. But the comical thing about it all, is, that the fig-leaf is confined to cold
and pallid marble, which would be still cold and unsuggestive without this sham and ostentatious
symbol of modesty, whereas warm-blooded paintings which do really need it have in no case been
furnished with it.

"At the door of the Ufizzi, in Florence, one is confronted by statues of a man and a woman,
noseless, battered, black with accumulated grime--they hardly suggest human beings--yet these
ridiculous creatures have been thoughtfully and conscientiously fig-leaved by this fastidious
generation. You enter, and proceed to that most-visited little gallery that exists in the world....
and there, against the wall, without obstructing rag or leaf, you may look your fill upon the
foulest, the vilest, the obscenest picture the world possesses--Titian's Venus. It isn't that
she is naked and stretched out on a bed--no, it is the attitude of one of her arms and hand.
If I ventured to describe the attitude, there would be a fine howl--but there the Venus lies,
for anybody to gloat over that wants to--and there she has a right to lie, for she is a work
of art, and Art has its privileges. I saw young girls stealing furtive glances at her; I saw
young men gaze long and absorbedly at her; I saw aged, infirm men hang upon her charms with
a pathetic interest. How I should like to describe her--just to see what a holy indignation
I could stir up in the world--just to hear the unreflecting average man deliver himself about
my grossness and coarseness, and all that.

"In every gallery in Europe there are hideous pictures of blood, carnage, oozing brains, putrefaction--pictures
portraying intolerable suffering--pictures alive with every conceivable horror, wrought out
in dreadful detail--and similar pictures are being put on the canvas every day and publicly
exhibited--without a growl from anybody--for they are innocent, they are inoffensive, being
works of art. But suppose a literary artist ventured to go into a painstaking and elaborate
description of one of these grisly things--the critics would skin him alive. Well, let it go,
it cannot be helped; Art retains her privileges, Literature has lost hers. Somebody else may
cipher out the whys and the wherefores and the consistencies of it--I haven't got time."

PROFESSOR SCENTS PORNOGRAPHY

Unfortunately, 1601 has recently been tagged by Professor Edward Wagenknecht as "the most famous
piece of pornography in American literature." Like many another uninformed, Prof. W. is like
the little boy who is shocked to see "naughty" words chalked on the back fence, and thinks
they are pornography. The initiated, after years of wading through the mire, will recognize
instantly the significant difference between filthy filth and funny "filth." Dirt for dirt's
sake is something else again. Pornography, an eminent American jurist has pointed out, is distinguished
by the "leer of the sensualist."

"The words which are criticised as dirty," observed justice John M. Woolsey in the United States
District Court of New York, lifting the ban on Ulysses by James Joyce, "are old Saxon words
known to almost all men and, I venture, to many women, and are such words as would be naturally
and habitually used, I believe, by the types of folk whose life, physical and mental, Joyce
is seeking to describe." Neither was there "pornographic intent," according to justice Woolsey,
nor was Ulysses obscene within the legal definition of that word.

"The meaning of the word 'obscene,'" the Justice indicated, "as legally defined by the courts
is: tending to stir the sex impulses or to lead to sexually impure and lustful thoughts.

"Whether a particular book would tend to excite such impulses and thoughts must be tested by
the court's opinion as to its effect on a person with average sex instincts--what the French
would call 'l'homme moyen sensuel'--who plays, in this branch of legal inquiry, the same role
of hypothetical reagent as does the 'reasonable man' in the law of torts and 'the learned man
in the art' on questions of invention in patent law."

Obviously, it is ridiculous to say that the "leer of the sensualist" lurks in the pages of
Mark Twain's 1601.

DROLL STORY

"In a way," observed William Marion Reedy, "1601 is to Twain's whole works what the 'Droll
Stories' are to Balzac's. It is better than the privately circulated ribaldry and vulgarity
of Eugene Field; is, indeed, an essay in a sort of primordial humor such as we find in Rabelais,
or in the plays of some of the lesser stars that drew their light from Shakespeare's urn. It
is humor or fun such as one expects, let us say, from the peasants of Thomas Hardy, outside
of Hardy's books. And, though it be filthy, it yet hath a splendor of mere animalism of good
spirits... I would say it is scatalogical rather than erotic, save for one touch toward the
end. Indeed, it seems more of Rabelais than of Boccaccio or Masuccio or Aretino--is brutally
British rather than lasciviously latinate, as to the subjects, but sumptuous as regards the
language."

Immediately upon first reading, John Hay, later Secretary of State, had proclaimed 1601 a masterpiece.

"It depends on who writes a thing whether it is coarse or not," wrote Clemens in his notebook
in 1879.

"Then I took it to one of the greatest, best and most learned of Divines [Rev. Joseph H. Twichell]
and read it to him. He came within an ace of killing himself with laughter (for between you
and me the thing was dreadfully funny. I don't often write anything that I laugh at myself,
but I can hardly think of that thing without laughing). That old Divine said it was a piece
of the finest kind of literary art--and David Gray of the Buffalo Courier said it ought to
be printed privately and left behind me when I died, and then my fame as a literary artist
would last."

FRANKLIN J. MEINE

THE FIRST PRINTING     Verbatim Reprint

[Date, 1601.]

CONVERSATION, AS IT WAS BY THE SOCIAL FIRESIDE, IN THE TIME OF THE TUDORS.

     [Mem.--The following is supposed to be an extract from the
     diary of the Pepys of that day, the same being Queen
     Elizabeth's cup-bearer.  He is supposed to be of ancient and
     noble lineage; that he despises these literary canaille;
     that his soul consumes with wrath, to see the queen stooping
     to talk with such; and that the old man feels that his
     nobility is defiled by contact with Shakespeare, etc., and
     yet he has got to stay there till her Majesty chooses to
     dismiss him.]

YESTERNIGHT toke her maiste ye queene a fantasie such as she sometimes hath, and had to her
closet certain that doe write playes, bokes, and such like, these being my lord Bacon, his
worship Sir Walter Ralegh, Mr. Ben Jonson, and ye child Francis Beaumonte, which being but
sixteen, hath yet turned his hand to ye doing of ye Lattin masters into our Englishe tong,
with grete discretion and much applaus. Also came with these ye famous Shaxpur. A righte straunge
mixing truly of mighty blode with mean, ye more in especial since ye queenes grace was present,
as likewise these following, to wit: Ye Duchess of Bilgewater, twenty-two yeres of age; ye
Countesse of Granby, twenty-six; her doter, ye Lady Helen, fifteen; as also these two maides
of honor, to-wit, ye Lady Margery Boothy, sixty-five, and ye Lady Alice Dilberry, turned seventy,
she being two yeres ye queenes graces elder.

I being her maites cup-bearer, had no choice but to remaine and beholde rank forgot, and ye
high holde converse wh ye low as uppon equal termes, a grete scandal did ye world heare thereof.

In ye heat of ye talk it befel yt one did breake wind, yielding an exceding mightie and distresfull
stink, whereat all did laugh full sore, and then--

Ye Queene.--Verily in mine eight and sixty yeres have I not heard the fellow to this fart.
Meseemeth, by ye grete sound and clamour of it, it was male; yet ye belly it did lurk behinde
shoulde now fall lean and flat against ye spine of him yt hath bene delivered of so stately
and so waste a bulk, where as ye guts of them yt doe quiff-splitters bear, stand comely still
and rounde. Prithee let ye author confess ye offspring. Will my Lady Alice testify?

Lady Alice.--Good your grace, an' I had room for such a thundergust within mine ancient bowels,
'tis not in reason I coulde discharge ye same and live to thank God for yt He did choose handmaid
so humble whereby to shew his power. Nay, 'tis not I yt have broughte forth this rich o'ermastering
fog, this fragrant gloom, so pray you seeke ye further.

Ye Queene.--Mayhap ye Lady Margery hath done ye companie this favor?

Lady Margery.--So please you madam, my limbs are feeble wh ye weighte and drouth of five and
sixty winters, and it behoveth yt I be tender unto them. In ye good providence of God, an'
I had contained this wonder, forsoothe wolde I have gi'en 'ye whole evening of my sinking life
to ye dribbling of it forth, with trembling and uneasy soul, not launched it sudden in its
matchless might, taking mine own life with violence, rending my weak frame like rotten rags.
It was not I, your maisty.

Ye Queene.--O' God's name, who hath favored us? Hath it come to pass yt a fart shall fart itself?
Not such a one as this, I trow. Young Master Beaumont--but no; 'twould have wafted him to heaven
like down of goose's boddy. 'Twas not ye little Lady Helen--nay, ne'er blush, my child; thoul't
tickle thy tender maidenhedde with many a mousie-squeak before thou learnest to blow a harricane
like this. Wasn't you, my learned and ingenious Jonson?

Jonson.--So fell a blast hath ne'er mine ears saluted, nor yet a stench so all-pervading and
immortal. 'Twas not a novice did it, good your maisty, but one of veteran experience--else
hadde he failed of confidence. In sooth it was not I.

Ye Queene.--My lord Bacon?

Lord Bacon.-Not from my leane entrailes hath this prodigy burst forth, so please your grace.
Naught doth so befit ye grete as grete performance; and haply shall ye finde yt 'tis not from
mediocrity this miracle hath issued.

[Tho' ye subjct be but a fart, yet will this tedious sink of learning pondrously phillosophize.
Meantime did the foul and deadly stink pervade all places to that degree, yt never smelt I
ye like, yet dare I not to leave ye presence, albeit I was like to suffocate.]

Ye Queene.--What saith ye worshipful Master Shaxpur?

Shaxpur.--In the great hand of God I stand and so proclaim mine innocence. Though ye sinless
hosts of heaven had foretold ye coming of this most desolating breath, proclaiming it a work
of uninspired man, its quaking thunders, its firmament-clogging rottenness his own achievement
in due course of nature, yet had not I believed it; but had said the pit itself hath furnished
forth the stink, and heaven's artillery hath shook the globe in admiration of it.

[Then was there a silence, and each did turn him toward the worshipful Sr Walter Ralegh, that
browned, embattled, bloody swashbuckler, who rising up did smile, and simpering say,]

Sr W.--Most gracious maisty, 'twas I that did it, but indeed it was so poor and frail a note,
compared with such as I am wont to furnish, yt in sooth I was ashamed to call the weakling
mine in so august a presence. It was nothing--less than nothing, madam--I did it but to clear
my nether throat; but had I come prepared, then had I delivered something worthy. Bear with
me, please your grace, till I can make amends.

[Then delivered he himself of such a godless and rock-shivering blast that all were fain to
stop their ears, and following it did come so dense and foul a stink that that which went before
did seem a poor and trifling thing beside it. Then saith he, feigning that he blushed and was
confused, I perceive that I am weak to-day, and cannot justice do unto my powers; and sat him
down as who should say, There, it is not much yet he that hath an arse to spare, let him fellow
that, an' he think he can. By God, an' I were ye queene, I would e'en tip this swaggering braggart
out o' the court, and let him air his grandeurs and break his intolerable wind before ye deaf
and such as suffocation pleaseth.]

Then fell they to talk about ye manners and customs of many peoples, and Master Shaxpur spake
of ye boke of ye sieur Michael de Montaine, wherein was mention of ye custom of widows of Perigord
to wear uppon ye headdress, in sign of widowhood, a jewel in ye similitude of a man's member
wilted and limber, whereat ye queene did laugh and say widows in England doe wear prickes too,
but betwixt the thighs, and not wilted neither, till coition hath done that office for them.
Master Shaxpur did likewise observe how yt ye sieur de Montaine hath also spoken of a certain
emperor of such mighty prowess that he did take ten maidenheddes in ye compass of a single
night, ye while his empress did entertain two and twenty lusty knights between her sheetes,
yet was not satisfied; whereat ye merrie Countess Granby saith a ram is yet ye emperor's superior,
sith he wil tup above a hundred yewes 'twixt sun and sun; and after, if he can have none more
to shag, will masturbate until he hath enrich'd whole acres with his seed.

Then spake ye damned windmill, Sr Walter, of a people in ye uttermost parts of America, yt
capulate not until they be five and thirty yeres of age, ye women being eight and twenty, and
do it then but once in seven yeres.

Ye Queene.--How doth that like my little Lady Helen? Shall we send thee thither and preserve
thy belly?

Lady Helen.--Please your highnesses grace, mine old nurse hath told me there are more ways
of serving God than by locking the thighs together; yet am I willing to serve him yt way too,
sith your highnesses grace hath set ye ensample.

Ye Queene.--God' wowndes a good answer, childe.

Lady Alice.--Mayhap 'twill weaken when ye hair sprouts below ye navel.

Lady Helen.--Nay, it sprouted two yeres syne; I can scarce more than cover it with my hand now.

Ye Queene.--Hear Ye that, my little Beaumonte? Have ye not a little birde about ye that stirs
at hearing tell of so sweete a neste?

Beaumonte.--'Tis not insensible, illustrious madam; but mousing owls and bats of low degree
may not aspire to bliss so whelming and ecstatic as is found in ye downy nests of birdes of
Paradise.

Ye Queene.--By ye gullet of God, 'tis a neat-turned compliment. With such a tongue as thine,
lad, thou'lt spread the ivory thighs of many a willing maide in thy good time, an' thy cod-piece
be as handy as thy speeche.

