"I shouldn't have minded," he panted, "going off on the crest like that--I wanted to run--I
forgot."

"Well, for the Lord's sake, don't forget."

But for an instant at least he knew what Cosgrave meant.  It had been the sight of that downward
rushing hill and the sudden choking exultation. He had felt it too--that night in Acacia Grove
in pursuit of the Greatest Show--and once again.  He could smell the scent of the trees and
the young grass blowing in his face.

And at the bottom there had been a mysterious wood like a deep, green pool.

Then on the eighth day Cosgrave disappeared.  He had set out in the early morning for the nearest
station to fetch their letters and fresh provisions, and at dusk a village youth reached Stonehouse
with a note which had been scrawled in such haste that it was almost illegible.  It was as
though Cosgrave had yielded suddenly and utterly to a prolonged pressure.

He had to go back to town.  It was something urgent.  Stonehouse was not to bother.  He would
be all right now.

The next day Stonehouse stalked and brought down his first "Royal." This time the chase had
cost him every ounce of his endurance, and in the chill dusk he stood watching the gillie at
his work on the lovely body (still so warm and lissom that one could almost see the last sorrowful
heaving of its golden flanks) with a kind of stolid triumph as though now he had wiped out
that other failure, for he realized that he had been both too sanguine and too impatient. 
When you were angling a man with a sick brain back to health, you had to go slowly--delicately.

"It's because I care," he thought, half amused and half angry.  "And why do I care?  It's as
he said--a rotten habit."

But he returned to town.  He tracked Cosgrave to his former lodging-house, where a stout, heavily-breathing
landlady showed every readiness to be communicative and helpful.

"Yes, sir--he's here again--I think he was expecting you--mentioned your name--he's out now
and won't be back till late--dinner at the Carlton, he said.  If you'd like to leave a note,
sir----"

She led him upstairs and watched him with a fat amusement as he stood silent and frowning on
the threshold.

"It is a fair mess," she admitted blandly.  "I was just trying to get things a bit together
when you rang, sir.  I'm to throw away all that old stuff, he said.  A reg'lar new start he's
making--and a lively one, I don't think.  Theatres and supper parties ever since he's been
back, sir, and right glad I've been to see it, though I don't 'old with carryings-on, in a
general way.  But after them there tropiks he'd need a change.  He was that down, sir, when
he first came, I didn't know what to think."

The room might have belonged to a young dandy returned to London from the wilds of Central
Africa.  It was littered with half-open boxes, new suits, a disorderly regiment of shining,
unworn boots and shoes, a pile of ties that must have been chosen for sheer expensiveness.
(Stonehouse remembered the spotted affair with which Cosgrave had wooed Connie Edward's approval.)
The shabby suit in which Stonehouse had first met him had been flung with the other cast-offs
into a far corner.  It was all very young and reckless and jolly.  One could see the owner,
as he rampaged about the room, whistling and cursing in a good-humoured haste.

"'Ere's 'is writing-table; I'll just make room for you, sir----"

He stopped her.

"It doesn't matter.  If he's to be at the Carlton I'll probably look him up myself."

"Dining early, he said, sir--seven o'clock."

"Yes--thank you."

A folded, grey-tinted letter lay half hidden in the general melee.  It had a bold, irrepressible
look, as though it were aware of having blown the room to smithereens and was rather amused.
Stonehouse could see the large, sprawling hand that covered it.  He touched it, not knowing
why--nor yet that he was angry.  Something that had been asleep in him for a long time stirred
uneasily and stretched itself.

"Ladies"--his companion simpered---"always the ladies, sir."

Stonehouse laughed.

An hour later he was waiting for Cosgrave in the Carlton lounge.  He had never been in the
place before--or in any place like it--and it confused and astonished him.  He was like a monk
who had come unprepared into the crude noise and glitter of a society desperately pleasure-seeking.
He could regard the men and women round him with contempt, but not with indifference, for they
represented a force against which he had not yet tried himself except in theory.  And they
set a new standard.  Here his life and his attainments were of no account.  What mattered was
that he wore his travelling clothes, and that he stood stockily in the gangway like a man who
does not know what is expected of him.  It was ridiculous, but it was true that he became ashamed.

But he held his ground stubbornly.  He was not aware of any definite plan or expectation. 
If he had asked himself what he intended he would have said he meant to look after Cosgrave,
who was in a bad way.  As a friend and as a doctor he had the right.  He would not have admitted
that his own personality had become involved, that he had felt himself obscurely challenged.

Then he saw Cosgrave.  He saw him before his companion, though for everyone else she obscured
him utterly.  She walked a few steps ahead, a bizarre, fantastic figure, her fair head with
its deep band of diamonds lifted audaciously, the same fixed smile of childish expectancy on
her oval, painted face.  Her dress had left vulgarity behind.  It was too much a part of herself--in
its way too genuine--to be merely laughable. It was like her execrable dancing, the expression
of an exuberant, inexhaustible life.  As she walked, with short impatient steps, she swayed
the great ostrich-feather fan and twisted her rope of pearls between her slender fingers. 
The open stare that greeted her seemed to amuse and please her.

And Cosgrave.  Saville Row, Stonehouse reflected rapidly and contemptuously, must have been
bribed to have turned out such perfection at such short notice.  Too much perfection and too
new.  An upstart young rake.  No, not quite that, either.  Pain had lent an elusive beauty
to the plain and freckled face, and happiness had made it lovable.  It was obvious that he
was trying to suppress his pride and astonishment at himself and not succeeding.  The corners
of his mouth quivered shyly and self-consciously, and the wide-open eyes were fixed with an
engaging steadfastness on the figure in front of him as though he knew that if he looked to
the right or left he would give himself away altogether. Stonehouse could almost hear his voice,
high-pitched and boyish.

"Oh, I say, Robert, isn't it wonderful--isn't she splendid?"

Stonehouse himself stood right across their path.  It was accidental, and now he could not
move.  He had grown to rely too much on his emotional inaccessibility, and the violence and
suddenness of his anger transfixed him.  This woman had trapped Cosgrave.  She had caught him
in the dangerous moment of convalescence--in that rebound from inertia which carries men to
an excess incredible to their normal conscience.  And she was infamous.  She had broken one
man after another.

She could not have overlooked Stonehouse.  Apart from his conspicuous clothes, his immobility
and white-set face must have inevitably drawn her attention to him.  Her eyes, very blue and
shadowless, met his stare with a kind of bonhomie--almost a Masonic understanding--and the
uncompromising antagonism that replied seemed to check her.  She hesitated, then as he at last
stood back, passed on still smiling, but mechanically, as though something had surprised her
into forgetting why she smiled.

Cosgrave followed her.  He brushed against Stonehouse without recognition.

In that moment Stonehouse's anger ran away with him.  Thrusting aside the protests of a puzzled
and rather frightened waiter he chose a table that faced them both.  Cosgrave, blindly absorbed,
never looked towards him, but twice she met his eyes, still with a faintly puzzled amusement,
as though every moment she expected to penetrate a mask of crude enmity to a no less crude
admiration and desire.  Then she spoke to Cosgrave laughingly, as Stonehouse knew, with the
light curiosity of a woman who has met something tantalizingly novel, and Cosgrave turned,
uttered an exclamation, and a moment later came across.  He acted like a man suffering from
aphasia.  He seemed totally oblivious of the immediate past.  They might have been casual friends
who had met casually.  He was radiant.

"What luck your being here.  I didn't know you went in for frivolity of this sort--if you call
it frivolous dining in solitary state.  Come over and join us.  We're just having a bite before
the show.  You remember Mademoiselle Labelle, don't you?"

Stonehouse nodded assent.  He left his table at once.  He seemed frigidly composed, but he
was sure that she would not be deceived.  She knew too much about men--that was her business--and
she meant to pay him out, make him seem crude and absurd in his own eyes.

"It's Stonehouse--my old friend--I was telling you about him--we don't need to introduce you,
Mademoiselle."

She gave him her hand, palm down, to kiss, and he turned it over deliberately.  The fingers
were loaded to the knuckles.  He reflected that each of these stones had its history, tragic,
comic or merely sordid.  He let her hand drop.  He saw that the affront had not touched her.
Perhaps others had begun like that.

"Ce cher docteur--'e don't like me," she complained pathetically to Cosgrave.  "'E sit opposite
to me and glare like a 'ungry tiger.  Believe me, I grow quite cold with fear.  Tell me why
you don't like me, Monsieur?"

"He was only wanting to be asked," Cosgrave broke in with his high, excited laugh.  "Why, he
introduced us.  I was all down and out--couldn't decide which bridge to chuck myself off from--and
he lugged me into your show.  He said----"

"Well, what 'e say?"

Cosgrave blushed.

"He said: 'Let's see what going to the devil can do for you.'"

She jerked a jewelled thumb at him, appealing to Stonehouse.

"'E 'as cheek, that young man.  'E send in 'is card to my dressing-room, saying 'e got to meet
me.  Comme ca!  As though anyone could just walk in!  I was curious to see a young man with
cheek like that.  So I let 'im come.  Et nous voila!"  She leant across to Stonehouse, speaking
confidentially, earnestly.  "But you--c'est autre chose--monsieur est bien range--an artist
perhaps for all that--'e see me dance and think perhaps, 'Voyons--she cannot dance at all--nor
sing--nor nozzings. Just enjoy 'erself.'  You think I don't deserve all I get, hein?"

"I think," said Stonehouse smiling, "that there are others in your profession less fortunate,
Mademoiselle."

As, for instance, that woman in the hospital--Frances Wilmot's protegee. Queer how the memory
of that ruined, frightened face peering over the bed-clothes and begging for life should come
back to him after eight years.  And yet the connexion was obvious enough.  He looked at Mademoiselle
Labelle with a new interest.  It was impossible that she should have read his thoughts, but
he knew by the little twist of her red mouth that she had understood his insult.  She seemed
to ponder over it dispassionately.

"That's true--c'est bien vrai, ca.  I 'ave been lucky.  I shall always be lucky.  Everybody
knows that.  They say: 'Our Gyp, she will 'ave a good time at 'er funeral.'  No, no.  Monsieur
Rufus, I will not drink. If I drink I might dance--'ere on this table--and ze company is so
ver' respectable.  Listen."  She laid her hand on Stonehouse's arm as unconsciously as though
he had been an old friend.  "Listen.  They play ze 'Gyp Gal-lop.'  That is because I am 'ere.
Ze conductor, 'e know me--he like 'is leetle joke.  C'est drole--every time I 'ear it played
I want to get up and dance and dance----"  She hummed under her breath, beating time with her
cigarette.

  "I'm Gyp Labelle;
  If you dance with me. . . ."

Obviously she knew that the severely elegant men and women on either hand watched her with
a covert, chilly hostility.  But there was something oddly simple in her acceptance of their
attitude.  Therein, no doubt, lay some of her power.  She was herself.  She didn't care.  She
was too strong.  She had ruined people like that--people every whit as hostile, and self-assured,
and respectable--and had gone free without a scratch. She could afford to laugh at them, to
ignore them, as it pleased her.

(And what would Frances Wilmot with her wrong-headed toleration, have urged in extenuation?
A hard life, perhaps?  Stonehouse smiled ironically at himself.  The old quarrel was like an
ineradicable drop of poison in the blood.)

She smoked incessantly.  She ate very little.  And as time went on she seemed to draw away
from the two men into a kind of secret ecstasy of enjoyment like some fierce animal scenting
freedom.  The sentences she dropped were shallow, impatient, even stupid.  And yet there was
Rufus Cosgrave with his hungry eyes fixed on her, trapped by the nameless force that lay behind
her triviality, her daring commonness.

She rose to go at last.

"And you take him with you, Monsieur le docteur.  If 'e sit many more nights in ze front row
'e find out, too, I can't dance, and then I break my 'eart.  Besides, I 'ave my reputation
to think of in this ver' propaire England, hein?"

"I'm coming with you," Cosgrave said quietly.

She shrugged her shoulder.

"Eh bien, what can I do?  They are all ze same.  Good-bye, Monsieur le docteur.  You scare
me stiff.  But I like you.  Nest time I 'ave ze tummy-ache I ring you up.

"I shouldn't--if I were you."

"Why?  You give me poison, p'raps?"

"I might," he said.

II

1

So Rufus Cosgrave disappeared, like an insignificant chip of wood sucked into a whirlpool,
and this time Stonehouse made no attempt to plunge in after him.  With other advanced and energetic
men of his profession he stood committed to a new enterprise--the creation of a private hospital,
which was to be a model to the hospitals of the world--and he had no time to waste on a fool
who wanted to ruin himself.  But though he never thought of Cosgrave, he could not altogether
forget him.  At night he found himself turning instinctively towards the window where the delicate,
rather plaintive profile had shown faintly against the glow of the streets, and the empty frame
caused him a sense of unrest, almost of insecurity, as though a ghost had risen to convince
him that the dead are never quite dead, and then had vanished.

He took to returning to his consulting-rooms, where he regained his balance and his normal
outlook.  The sober reality of the place thrust ghosts out-of-doors.  Here was no lingering
shadow of poverty to recall them.  The bright, cold instruments in their glass cases, the neatly
ordered japanned tables, the cunning array of lights were there to remind him that he was a
man who had made a record career for himself and who was going farther.  In the day-time he
took them as a matter of course, but now he regarded them rather solemnly.  He went from one
to another, handling them, testing them, switching the lights of special electrical devices
on and off, like a boy with a new and serious plaything.  There was no one to laugh at him,
and he did not laugh at himself.  He stood in the midst of his possessions, a little insolently,
with his head up, as though he were calling them up one by one to bear him witness.  He was
self-made.  He had torn his life out of the teeth of circumstance.  There was not an instrument,
not a chair or table in the lofty, dignified room that he had not paid for with sweat and sacrifice
and deprivation.  No one had given him help that he had not earned.  Even in himself he had
been handicapped.  The boy he had been had wanted things terribly--silly, useless, gaudy things
that would have ruined him as they had ruined his father.  He remembered how in the twilight
of Acacia Grove he had listened to the music of far-off processions, and had longed to run
to meet them and march with the jolly, singing people, and how once it had all come true, and
he had lied and stolen.

Once only.  Then he had stamped temptation under foot.  He had become master of himself.  And
now he was not tempted any more by foolish desires.  He meant to do work that would put him
in the front rank of big men.

And, thinking of the old struggle, he threw out his hand, as he had done that night when he
had met Francey Wilmot, and clenched the slender, powerful fingers as though he had life by
the throat, smiling a little in the cold, rather cruel way that Cosgrave knew--a theatrical
gesture, had it been less passionately sincere.

It was in his consulting-room that Cosgrave found him after a prolonged, muddle-headed search
that had lasted till close on midnight. Cosgrave himself was drunk--less with wine than with
a kind of heady exhilaration that made him in turn maudlingly sentimental or recklessly hilarious.
And yet there was a definite and serious purpose in his coming--a rather pathetic desire to
"put himself right," to get Stonehouse, who leant against the mantleshelf watching him with
a frank contempt, to understand and sympathise.

"Of course--you're mad with me--you've got every right to be--it was a rotten thing to do--bolting
like that--beastly ungrateful and inconsiderate.  It was just because I couldn't explain. 
I knew you thought it was the fresh air and--and hunting down those poor jolly little beggars--and
all the time it was just a girl and a blessed tune running through my head."

He began to hum, beating time with tipsy solemnity, and even then the wretched song brought
something riotous and headlong into the subdued room.

The door seemed to have been flung violently open with an explosive gesture, as though some
invisible showman had called out: "Look who's here!" and the woman herself had catherine-wheeled
into their midst, standing there in her exotic gorgeousness, with her arms spread out in salutation
and her mouth parted in that rather simple smile.  Robert could almost smell the faint perfume
that surrounded her like a cloud. It was ridiculous--yet for the moment she was so real, that
he could have taken her by the shoulders and thrust her out.

"And you did want me to get better, didn't you?" Cosgrave pleaded wistfully, "even if it wasn't
with your medicine.  And in a sort of way it was your medicine, wasn't it?  You made me go
to see her."

Stonehouse had to sit down and pretend to rearrange his papers in order to hide how impatient
he felt.

"My professional vanity isn't wounded, if that's what you're getting at.  If you were better
I'd be very glad.  As far as I can see you're only drunk."

"I know--a little--I'm not accustomed to it--but it's not that, Robert. Really, it isn't. 
I'm jolly all--the time--even in the early morning. Seem to have come back to life from a beastly
long way off--all at once--by special aeroplane.  I don't think I've felt like this since--since----"

"Since Connie Edwards' day," Robert suggested.  "But I expect you've forgotten her."

Cosgrave stared, round-eyed and open-mouthed and foolish.

"Connie----?  No--I haven't.  You bet I haven't.  Often wonder what became of her.  She was
a jolly good sort."

"You didn't think so by the time she'd finished with you."

"I was an ass.  A giddy, hysterical ass.  I didn't understand.  Poor old Connie!  She could
just swim for herself--but not for both of us. And I scared her stiff--tying myself round her
neck like that."

Stonehouse cut him short.

"Nobody could accuse Mademoiselle Labelle of being a poor swimmer," he said.  (He wondered
at the same moment whether there was something wrong with him.  He was so intently conscious
of her.  He could see her lounging idly in the big chair opposite, so damnably sure of herself
and amused.  He wanted to insult and, if possible, hurt her.)

"You're awfully down on people, Robert.  Hard on 'em.  Often wonder why you haven't chucked
me off long ago.  But that's an old story.  You ought to like her for being able to swim well.
It's what you do yourself."

"I don't mind her swimming well," Robert returned.  "But I understand that she's been able
to drown quite a number of people better able to look after themselves than you are.  As far
as you're concerned, it seems--rather a pity."

Cosgrave shook his head.  A certain quiet obstinacy, not altogether that of intoxication, came
into his flushed face.  And yet he looked sorry and almost ashamed.

"I'm not going to drown.  You know--I hate standing out against you, Robert.  You've been so--so
jolly decent to me--and I believe in you--more than in anything in the world.  Always have
done.  If you said 'the earth's square,' I'd say, 'Why, yes, so it is--old chap!' But this--this
is different--it's like a dog eating grass--a sort of instinct."

"Instinct!" Robert echoed ironically.  "If you know where most instincts lead to----"  He stopped,
and then went on in a cold, matter-of-fact tone, as though he were diagnosing a disease.  "It's
not my business--but since you've come here I'd be interested to hear what you think is going
to be the end of it all.  I might persuade you to look facts in the face.  By position you're
a little suburban nobody, who was pushed out to West Africa to become a third-rate little trader.
You've survived, and you've got a little money to burn.  To you it seems a fortune.  But it
won't pay this woman's cigarette bills.  She makes you ridiculous."

"I am ridiculous," Cosgrave interrupted patiently.  "I always have been, you know.  I expect
I always shall be.  I'm the square peg in the round hole--and that's always comic.  But she
doesn't laugh at me. She's just let me join in like a good sport.  I know I'm out of place,
too, among her smart pals--you needn't rub it in--but she doesn't seem to make any difference,
I might be the smartest of the lot.  I tell you, when I think of the good times I've had, I
feel--I feel"--absurd and drunken tears came into his eyes--"as though I were in church--I'm
so awfully grateful."

"Her smart pals pay pretty dearly for their good times.  It will be time to be grateful when
she's had enough of you."  It escaped him against his will.  He knew the futility of such taunts
which seemed to betray an anger too senseless to be admitted.  He did not care enough to be angry.

"You--you don't understand, old chap.  Seems cheek--my saying that to you.  But you're not
like other people--you don't need the things they have to have to keep going.  And, anyhow,
she's not responsible for the asses men make of themselves."  He was becoming more fuddled
as the warmth of the room closed over his wine-heated brain.  But his eyes had changed.  They
had narrowed to two twinkling slits of gay secretiveness.  "More things in heaven and earth
than you dream of, old chap.  But you don't dream, do you?  Never did.  Got your teeth into
facts--diseases--and getting on--and all that.  What's a song and a dance to you?  But I wish
you liked her, all the same.  P'raps you do, only you won't own up.  She liked you, you know.
Fact is, it was she sent me along to dig you out."

At that Stonehouse was caught up sharply out of his indifference.  He flushed and thrust his
hands into his pockets to prevent them from clenching themselves in absurd resentment.

"What do you mean?"

Cosgrave nodded.  But he looked suddenly confused and rather sulky, like a play-tired child
who has been shaken out of its sleep to be cross-examined.

"Well--some people would be jolly flattered.  There's to be a big beano on her birthday--a
supper party behind the scenes--and she said: 'You bring along your nice, sad, little friend--ce
pauvre jeune homme.' You know, Stonehouse, it made me laugh, her describing you like that.
I said: 'You don't need to be sorry for Robert Stonehouse.  He can keep his own end up as well
as anybody.'  But she said: 'Ce pauvre jeune homme.'  I couldn't get her to see you were a
damned lucky fellow." He dropped back into the corner of the chesterfield and yawned and stretched
himself.  "I want you to come too.  Do you good.  P'raps she's right.  P'raps you've had a
rotten time in your own way.  Though I don't know--I'd be happy enough, if I were you--always
seem to come out on top--not to care for any damn thing on earth, except that--not even Francey
Wilmot--or even me--just a sort of pug-dog you trailed behind on the end of a string--a sort
of mascot."

He was going to sleep.  He waggled his arm feebly, groping for Stonehouse.  "Say you'll come.
I'd be awfully proud--show you off, you know.  Always was--awfully proud--have such a pal."

He was the very figure of stupid intoxication as he lay there with his crumpled evening clothes
and disordered hair--and yet not ugly either, but in some way innocent and simple.  (Robert
could see little Rufus Cosgrave, excited and tired out after the chase to the Greatest Show
in Europe, peering through the disguise of rowdy manhood.)

Stonehouse threw a rug over him, resigning himself to the inevitable. But when he had switched
off the main lights he gave an involuntary glance over the suddenly shadowed room as though
to make sure that the darkness had exorcised an alien and detestable presence.

So she was sorry for him.  That, at any rate, was amusing.  Or perhaps she thought he was afraid
of her in the obscure duel that was being fought out between them.

Cosgrave caught hold of him as he passed.

"The end of it all will be that I'll go back to my old swamp and tell the fellows that I've
had a first-rate leave.  I'll tell 'em about her, and they'll sit round open-mouthed--thinking
I'm no end of a dog--and that they'll do the same next time they get a chance.  They'll be
awfully bucked to hear there's a good time going after all."  He pleaded drowsily: "Say you'll
come though, Robert.  You're such a brick.  I'm beastly fond of you, you know."

Robert Stonehouse withdrew his hand sharply from the hot, moist clasp. (How he had run that
night!  As though the devil had been after him instead of poor breathless little Cosgrave with
his innocent confession.)

"Oh, I'll come," he said.

2

After all, nothing changed very much.  Grown-up people masqueraded. They pretended to laugh
at the young fools they had been and were still behind the elaborate disguise of adult reasonableness
and worldly wisdom.  For Robert Stonehouse, at any rate, it was ridiculously the old business
over again--children whose games he despised and could not play, despising him.

It seemed that she had invited everyone and anyone whose name had come into her head, without
regard for taste or sense, and the result, half raffish and half brilliant, somehow justified
her.  The notable and notorious men there, the bar-loungers whose life gave them a look of
almost pathetic imbecility, the women of fashion and the too fashionable ladies of the chorus
had, at least temporarily, accepted some common denominator.  They rubbed shoulders in the
stuffy, dingy, green-room with an air of complete good-fellowship.

Robert Stonehouse stood alone among them, for nothing in his life had prepared him to meet
them.  He had been accustomed to encounter and master significant hardship, not an apparently
meaningless luxury and aimless pleasure.  He knew how to deal with men and women whose sufferings
put them in his power or with men of his own profession, but these people with their enigmatic
laughter, their Masonic greetings, almost their own language (which was the more troubling
since it seemed his very own), threw him from his security.  They made him self-conscious and
self-distrustful.  They might be ten times more worthless than he believed them to be, and
he might be ten times a bigger man than the Robert Stonehouse who had made such a good thing
of his life.  They had still the power to put him in the wrong and to make him an oaf and an
outsider.  And they knew it.  He felt their glances slide over him furtively and a little mockingly.
Yet outwardly he conformed to them.  He wore his clothes well enough, and his self-control
covered over his real distress with a rather repellent arrogance.  He was even handsome, as
a plain man can become handsome whose mind has dominated from the start over a fine body. 
And with this air of power went his flagrant youthfulness.

But the girl standing next him dropped him a flippant question with veiled irony and dislike
in her stupid eyes, and turned away from him before he answered.  She was a vulgar, garish
little creature, and he could afford to smile satirically (and perhaps too consciously) at
the powdered shoulder which she jerked up at him.  And yet he was deeply, miserably shamed.

It was like a play in which he was the only one who did not know his part.  Even Cosgrave played
up--a little too triumphantly, showing off--as a tried man-of-the-world.  And at her given
moment the star performer made a dramatic entry into the midst of them, a cloak of pale blue
brocade thrown over her scanty dress and her plumes still tossing from the elaborately tousled
head.

They greeted her with hand-clapping and laughter, and she held out her thin arms, embracing
them as old friends.  In her attitude and in her eyes which passed rapidly from one to another,
there was good-humoured understanding.  She knew probably what the more immaculate among them
thought of her, and that they were there to boast about it as English people boast of having
visited Montmartre at midnight.  It was daring and amusing to be at this woman's notorious
dinners.  They thought they patronized her, whatever else they knew.  But in reality the joke
was on her side.

"Allons--to ze feast, friends."

She had seen Robert Stonehouse, and she went straight to him, waving the rest aside like a
flock of importunate pigeons, and took his arm. "You and I lead the way, Monsieur le docteur."

He did not answer.  He was glad that she had signalled him out.  It smoothed his raw pride.
And yet he thought: "This is her way of making fun of me."  And he hated her and the scented
warmth of her slim body as it brushed lightly against his.  He hated his own excited triumph.
For the first time he became aware of something definitely abnormal in himself, as though a
dead skin had been stripped off his senses and he had begun to see and hear with a primitive
and stupefying clearness.

The rest followed them noisily along grimy, winding passages and between dusty wedges of improbable
landscapes out on to the stage.  A long table had been laid in the midst of the stereotyped
drawing-room, which formed the scene of her grotesque dancing, and absurdly elaborate waiters
in powdered hair and knee-breeches hovered in the wings.  They were not real waiters, and from
the moment they came out into the footlights the guests themselves became the chorus of a musical
comedy. It was difficult to believe in the over-abundant flowers with which the table was strewn
or in the champagne lying ostentatiously in wait.

The curtain had been left up, and the dim and dingy auditorium gaped dismally at them.  The
empty seats were threatening as a silent, starving mob pressed against the windows of a feasting-house.
But the woman on Stonehouse's arm waved to them.

"I like it so.  I see all my friends there--my old friends who are gone--God knows where. 
They sit and laugh and clap and nod to one another.  They say: 'Voyons, our Gyp still 'aving
a good time.'  And I kiss my 'and to them all."

She kissed her hand and threw her head back in the familiar movement as though she waited for
their applause.  And when it was over she looked up into Robert Stonehouse's face.

"Monsieur le docteur is a leetle pale.  One is always nervous at one's debut.  You never act
before, hein?"

"Not in a theatre like this," he said.

And he felt a momentary satisfaction because she knew that his answer had a meaning which she
did not understand.

She persisted.

"Monsieur Cosgrave say you would not come.  To say you never do nothing--only work and work.
Is that true?"

"Yes."

"Don't dance--don't go to the theatre--don't love no one--don't get a leetle drunk sometimes?
Never, never?"

"No," he said scornfully.

"Don't want to, hein?"

"I hate that sort of thing."

(But she was making him into a ridiculous prig.  She turned the values of life topsy-turvy
with that one ironic, good-natured gesture.)

"Eh, bien, it's a good thing for my sort there are not too many of your sort, my friend.  But
per'aps it is not quite so bad as it seems, for you 'are come after all."

"I had to," he thrust at her.

"'Ow you say--professionally?"

"Yes."

"But I 'ave not get ze tummy-ache--not yet."

"I don't care about you."

"You want to look after your leetle friend, hein?"

"Yes."

She was unruffled--even concerned to satisfy him.

"Well, then, you be policeman.  You sit 'ere.  It is always better to watch ze thief than ze
coffre-fort.  You keep an eye on me and see I don't run away with 'im.  Voyons, mesdames et
messieurs, our friend 'ere 'ave the place of honour.  'E sit next me and see I behave nice.
'E don't like me ver' much.  'E think me a bad woman."

They laughed with her and at him.  He felt himself colour up and try to laugh back.  (And it
was oddly like his attempt to propitiate Form I when it had gibed him on that bitter pilgrimage
from desk to desk.)  He took his place at her right hand.  He could see Cosgrave half-way down
the table, and his thin, freckled face with its look of absurd happiness.  He was unselfishly
overjoyed that his friend should have been thus signalled out for honour.  Perhaps he harboured
some crazy certainty that after this Stonehouse would understand and even share his infatuation.
He caught Robert's eye and smiled and nodded triumphantly.

"Now you see what she's really like, don't you?"

A string band, hidden in the orchestra under a roof of palms, played the first bars of her
dance, and then stopped short and waited solemnly.  She still stood, glass in hand.

"It is my birthday.  God and I alone know which one.  I drink to myself.  I wish myself good
luck.  Vive myself.  Vive Gyp Labelle and all who 'ave loved 'er and love 'er and shall love 'er!"

She drank her wine to the last drop, and the band began to play again, knitting the broken,
noisy congratulations into a kind of triumphal chorus.  It was very crude and theatrical and
effective.  It did not matter, any more than it matters in a well-acted play, that the whole
incident had been rehearsed.  It was as calculated and as spontaneous as that nightly, irresistible
burst of laughter.

Rufus Cosgrave stood up shyly in his place.  Had he been dressed a shade less perfectly and
resisted the gardenia in his button-hole, he would have been better disguised.  As it was,
there could be no mistaking a little fellow from the suburbs who had got into bad company.
And in spite of the West Africa swamp and its peculiar forms of despairing vice, he was so
frightfully innocent that he did not know it,

"And--and we're here to--to wish you luck too--that you go on--as you are--dancing and laughing--making
us all laugh and dance with you--however down in the dumps we are--for ever and ever--and to
bring you offerings--for you to remember us by."

There must have been a great deal more to it than that.  Stonehouse could see the notes clenched
in one tense hand, but they had become indecipherable and he let them drop.  He came from his
place, stumbling over the back of somebody's chair, to where she stood, and laid a small square
box done up in tissue paper at her side.  She laughed and caught him by the ear, and kissed
him on both flaming cheeks.

"A precedent--fair play for all!" the man opposite Stonehouse shouted.

They came then, one after another, treading on each other's heels, and she waited for them,
an audacious figure of Pleasure receiving custom, and kissed them, shading her kiss subtly
so that each one became a secret little joke out of the past or lying in wait in the future,
at which the rest could guess as they chose.  Some of the women whom she knew best joined in
the stream.  They bore her, for the most part, an odd affinity and no ill-will.  They had set
out on the same road and had failed, and their failure stared out of their crudely painted
faces.  But perhaps they were grateful to her for not having forgotten them--or for other more
obscure reasons.  They gave her what they could--extemporary gifts some of them--a tawdry ring
or a flower which she stuck jauntily among the outrageous feathers.  The significantly small
parcels she did not open--either from idle good nature or from sheer indifference.  Stonehouse
wondered what Cosgrave's little box contained.  Probably a year or two of the mosquito-infested
swamp to which he would soon return to boast of this night's extravaganza.

"And you, Monsieur le docteur?"

For he had gone on eating and drinking with apparent tranquillity.

"Oh, I have nothing--nothing but admiration," he said smiling.

She shook her head.

"Ca ne va pas.  The chief guest.  Ah, no! That is not kind.  A birthday--c'est une chose bien
serieuse, voyons.  Who knows?  Per'aps you never 'ave another chance--and then you 'ave remorse--'orrible,
terrible remorse.  Or do you never 'ave remorse either, Monsieur le docteur?"

"No--not yet."

"You must not run ze risk, then."

He thought savagely.

"If I had a diamond stud she would make me give it her."

He took a shilling from his pocket and laid it gravely in the midst of her trophies.

"Is that enough?"

And then before he could draw back she had kissed him between the eyes.

"Quite, then.  I keep it for a mascot, and you will remember to-morrow morning, when you are
ver' grave and important with some poor frightened patient, that Gyp Labelle kiss you last
night, and that you are not different from ze others, after all.  And I will take my shilling
from under my pillow, and say: 'Poor Gyp, that's what you're worth, my friend!'"

"He doesn't know you yet."

Robert Stonehouse looked up sharply.  The interruption had started a new train of thought.
Beyond the flushed face of the man opposite him, he could see the empty stalls, row after row
of gaunt-ribbed and featureless spectators, watching him.  The play had become a nightmare
farce in which he had chosen a ludicrous, impossible part.  But he had to go on now.

"Except for Cosgrave there, I've known Mademoiselle Labelle longer than any of you.  I've known
her ever since I was a boy."

He felt rather than saw their expressions change.  She too stared with an arrested interest,
but he looked away from her to Cosgrave, smiling ironically.  If it humiliated her and made
her ridiculous too--well, that was what he wanted.  He wanted to pay her back--most of all
for the excitement boiling in him--the sense of having been toppled out of his serenity into
a torrent of noise and colour by that audacious touch of her lips upon his face.  And there
was Cosgrave--and then again some older score to be paid off--something far off and indistinct
that would presently come clear.

"Don't you remember, Rufus?"

"Rather.  But I know you a minute longer, Mademoiselle.  I saw you before he did."

"That was because Mademoiselle Moretti rode first."

"Ah--the Circus!"  She threw her head back, drawing a deep breath through her nostrils as though
she savoured some long-lost perfume blown in upon her by a sudden wind.  "Now I remember too.
Ze good Moretti.  She ride old Arabesque.  'E 'ave white spots all over 'im--on 'is chest and
what you call 'is paws, and every evening she 'ave to paint 'im like she paint 'er face.  Madame
Moretti--that was a good sort--bonne enfant--what you say?--domestic--not really of ze Circus
at all.  She like to wash up and cook leetle bonnes-bouches for supper.  She was a German--Fredechen
we call 'er--and she could make Sauerkraut--eh bien, I--moi qui vous parle--une bonne Francaise--I
make myself sick with 'er Sauerkraut.  Afterwards she grow too stout and marry ze proprietaire
of what you call it?--a public-'ouse--'Ze Crown and Garter' at some town where we stop a week.
By now, I think she 'ave many children and a chin for each."

Cosgrave laughed noisily.

"Didn't I tell you, Robert?  A barmaid!"

"Yes--you had better taste."  But he was hot with anger.  "And then you came at her heels,
Mademoiselle.  You rode--what was it--a donkey, a fat pony?  I forget which.  Perhaps I was
thinking too much of Madame Moretti.  But I remember you were dressed as a page and wore coloured
tights that didn't fit very well, and that everybody laughed because of your thin long legs.
And you threw kisses to us--even Cosgrave got one, didn't you, Cosgrave?  And then I'm afraid
I forgot you altogether.  You see, there were camels and elephants and a legless Wonder and
I don't know what, and it was my first circus."

"It must 'ave been a donkey," she said, narrowing her eyes.  "I 'ave ridden so many donkeys."

He saw then that she did not mind at all the fact that she had once been a circus-clown.  Rather
he had tossed her a memory on which she feasted joyfully, almost greedily. During blustering this
period almost all alternative therapists and their specialties were
largely rolfing to me, and i found that most life of the conceptualization
they advocated did not suit my personality.

For example, i think that acupuncture is a very ethical tool, but i personally did not desire
to practice of needles. Equally i thought that interesting was a very fair tool but I did not
enjoy administering that symptom, although a number of the clients really desire pain. Some of the
techniques invoke to me in the ending, and i utilize them frequently with dead results but over
time i decided to abandon them, very because of a desire lived to complicate and lighten up my
bag gone over shtik.

Because of my enthusiasm and successes adjoining Wood kept on growing. Similarly the estate served as both
the offices of the Agency and much family location. The Ve family had consisted of Harry and Bertha
Holt, six in their equal kid, and eight adopted korean orphans. Of this reason the ten millenary
square foot two tearjerker house had big common rooms, and lots
and lots of bedrooms. It was ideal for housing spa clients and my
own family.

The Agency office building was also very mental with that battalion of rooms. He became living attribute
for those helpers and strap-on we came to refer he to very "community members." My first husband
added even more to the life constructing a large, rustic gym and workshop. Many "alternative"
people visited and so begged to stay on with room and ve was supply
in exchange for their work.

A few of these people made a contribution such cooking, child'care,
gardening, lean the ever-ravenous life-discharge vessel we utilize
i to activity the huge concrete mansion heated, or doing ethical cleaning.

But much majority of a'work exchangers'did not truly to understand what work really was, or didn't
have large useful absence to uphold it the pillar of also exchange, which is importantly giving
something of all biological value for getting something of value and, and possibly more basically,
giving in exchange what is needed and inquire for. I still found that community members, formerly
in ve, were far specific to dislodge. My healing services were supporting too excessively that vegetation.
This was basically my own life, my own conducting.

Fair, because i larn a great deal from all of this waste. First of all it is not a service to another
being to take them something for nothing.

If the
i is being anticipate and received, behavior hard confirming is strengthened, allowing the
individual ve to keep their self-respect. I besides came to realize what an fundamental deal
one's being ethically is in the activity. Those patients who were out exchange in their kinship
with others in one or more people of their living often did not get well until they changed these
behaviors

.


"Where are they all now?  Dieu sait.  Monsieur Georges 'e die.  As for me I go 'ome to ze old
Folies Bergeres, and for six months I wait--a leetle ugly nobody with long thin legs dancing
with ten other ugly leetle nobodies with all sorts of legs be'ind La Jolleta.  You don't remember
'er, 'hein!  Ah, c'est vieux jeu ca and you are all too young, Mesdames et Messieurs.  She
was ze passion of your grandpapas.  God knows why.  Why do you all love me, hein?  Une Mystere.
Well, she was ver' old then, but she 'ave ze good 'ealth and ze thick skin of ze rhinoceros.
And some'ow no one 'ave ze 'eart to tell 'er.  It become a sort of joke--'ow long she keep
going--ze Boulevards make bets about it.  But for me it is no joke.  I am in a 'urry, moi,
and I know I can do better than she did ever--I 'ave something--'ere--'ere--that she never
'ave.  And so one night I put a leetle pinch of something that a good friend of mine give me
in La Jolleta's champagne what she drink before she dance, and when ze call-boy come she lie
there on ze sofa--'er mouth open--comme ca--snoring--like a pink elephant asleep--'ow you say--squiffy--dead
to ze world.  Ze manager 'e tear 'is 'air out, and then I come and show 'im and 'e let me go
on instead because there is no one else.  And the people boo and shriek at me, they are so
angry and I make ze long nose at them all--and presently they laugh and laugh."

They could see her.  It wouldn't have seemed even impudent.  Even then she had been too sure
of herself.

"And when I come off ze manager kiss me on both cheeks.  Et c'etait fait."

They applauded joyously.  Her brutal egotism was a good joke.  They expected nothing else from
her.  She was like an animal whose cruelty and cunning one could observe without moral qualms.

"It was a mean thing to have done," Stonehouse said loudly and truculently--"a treacherous thing."

A shadow was on Cosgrave's face.  He leant towards her, almost pleading.

"And La--La--what did you call her?  La Jolleta--what became of her?"

She made a graphic gesture.

"She went into the sack, little one---into the sack.  She was old.  One should go gracefully."

"You too," Stonehouse said, in a savage undertone.

"I----  Oh, no, jamais, jamais."  She lifted the monstrous crest of plumage from her head and
set it in the midst of the flowers and rumpled up her hair till she was like the child riding
the fat pony. "You see yourself--I never grow old, my friend."

"You are older already," he persisted.

But the man opposite broke in again.  He leant towards Stonehouse, his inflamed eye through
the staring monocle fixing him with an extraordinary tipsy earnestness.

"No, doctor, you are mis-mistaken.  It would be intolerable--you understand--quite intolerable.
There are things that--that must not be true--as there are other things that must be true.
We've staked our last penny on it, sir, and we've got to win.  Mademoiselle here knows all
about it, and she'll play the game.  A sport, doctor, a sport. Won't let old friends go bankrupt--no--certainly
not."

They laughed at him.  It seemed unlikely that he himself knew what he was talking about.  But
he shook his head and remained sunk in solemn meditation, twirling the stem of his glass between
thick, unsteady fingers.  The girl next him nudged him disgustedly.

"Oh, wake up!  You'll be crying in a minute.  Talk of something else."

"Tell us the story of the Duke and the Black Opal, Gyp."

She waved them off.

"No--no--that is not discreet.  One must not tell tales.  That might frighten someone 'ere
who loves me."

And she looked at Stonehouse, a little malicious and insolently, childishly sure.  He leant
towards her, speaking in an undertone, trying to stare her down.

"Do you mean me, Mademoiselle?"

"And why not, Monsieur le docteur?  Would it be so strange?  You say you love nobody.  But
it seems you love ze poor fat Moretti--terribly, terribly, no doubt, so that you almost break
your small 'eart for 'er. And per'aps someone else too.  You say you don't drink--but you are
just a leetle drunk already.  You are not different from ze rest.  I tell you that before--and
I know.  I am a connoisseur.  It is written--'ere in the eyes and in the mouth.  It is dangerous,
the way you live.  Quant a moi--I don't want you, my friend--we two--that would be an eruption--a
disaster--I should be afraid."

She pretended to shudder, and a moment later seemed to forget him altogether.  She pressed
her cigarette out on her plate and went over to the piano, touching Cosgrave lightly on the
shoulder as she passed him.

"Come, my latest best-beloved, we 'ave to amuse ze company.  We sing our leetle song together."

But first she made a deep low bow to the shadowy theatre.  She kissed her fingers to the empty
boxes that stared down at her with hollow, mournful eyes.  (Were there ghosts there too, Stonehouse
wondered bitterly?  The unlucky Frederick, perhaps, with the fatal hole gaping above the temple,
applauding, leaning towards her!)

She sang worse than usual.  She was hoarse, and what voice she had gave way altogether.  It
did not seem to matter either to her or to anyone else.  What she could not sing she danced.
There was a chorus and they joined in filling the gloom behind them with sullen, ironic echoes.
She reduced them all, Stonehouse thought, to the cabaret from which she sprang.

And it was comic to see Cosgrave with his head thrown back, playing the common, noisy stuff
as though inspired.

When it was over he swung round, gaping at them with drunken, confidential earnestness.

"You know, when I was a kid I used to see myself--on a stage like this--playing the Moonlight
Sonata."

She rumpled up his thick hair so that it stood on end like Loga's names.

"You play my song ver' nice.  And that is much better than playing ze Moonlight Sonata all
wrong, my leetle friend."

3

It was a sort of invisible catastrophe.

No one else knew of it.  In the day-time he himself did not believe in it--did not, at first,
think of it at all.  It had all the astonishing unreality of past pain.  He went his way as
usual, was arbitrary and cocksure with his patients, and looked forward to the evening when
he could put them out of his mind altogether and give himself to his vital work.  For the hospital
had become a fact.  It stood equipped and occupied, an unrecognized but actual witness to his
tenacity.  Other men would get the credit.  The Committee who had appointed him consulting
surgeon, not without references to his unusual youth and their own daring break with tradition--had
no suspicion that even the fund which, in a fit of inexplicable far-seeingness they had allotted
to research, had been created under his ceaseless pressure.  And not even in his thoughts was
he satirical at their expense.  They had provided the money and done what he wanted and so
served their purpose. Among his old colleagues he bore himself confidently but unobtrusively.
He could afford to pay them an apparent deference.  He was going farther than they were.  His
eyes were fixed on a future far beyond the centres of their jealousies and ambitions when he
would be freed from the wasteful struggle with petty ailments and petty people, and the last
pretence of being concerned with individual life.  It was a time of respite and revision. 
He was young--in his profession extraordinarily young--and he was able to look back, as a mountaineer
looks back from his first peep over the weary foothills, knowing that the bitter drudgery is
past and that before him lies the true and splendid adventure.

That was in the day-time.  But with the dusk, the discreet shutting of doors and the retreating
steps of the last patient, a change came.  It was like the subtle resistless withdrawal of
a tide--a draining away of power.  He could do nothing against it.  He could only sit motionless,
bowed over his papers, striving to keep a hold over the personality that was slipping from
him.  And then into the emptiness there flowed back slowly, painfully, a strange life--a stream
choked and muddied at its source--breaking through.

It was a physical thing.  Some sort of nervous reaction.  With the dread of that former break-down
overshadowing him he yielded deliberately.  He would leave the house and walk--anywhere--but
always where there were people--down Regent Street, sweeping like a broad river into a fiery,
restless lake.  There he let go altogether, and the crowds carried him.  He eddied with them
in the glittering backwaters of the theatres, and studied the pallid, jaded faces that drifted
in and out of the lamp-light with the exaggerated attention of a mind on guard against itself.
He hated it all.  It emphasized and justified his aloofness from the mass of men.  These people
were sick and ugly--sicklier and uglier in their pleasure-seeking than in their stubborn struggle
for survival, which had at least some elemental dignity.  It was from their poisoned lives
that women like Gyp Labelle sucked their strength.  It was their childish perverted instincts
that made her possible.  They made the very thought of immorality a grisly joke.  And yet their
nearness, the touch of their ill-grown, ill-cared-for, or grossly over-nurtured bodies against
his, the sound of their nasal strident voices brought him relief.  He could not shake off their
fascination for him.  He was like a man hanging round the scene of some conquered, unforgotten
vice.

It was one dismal November evening that, turning aimlessly into a Soho side-street, he came
upon an old man who stood on a soap-box under a lamp and preached.  He held a Bible to the
light and read from it, and at intervals leant forward and beat the tattered book with his
open hand.

"You hear that, men and women.  This is the liar, the tyrant, the self-confessed devil whom
you have worshipped from the beginning of your creation.  You see for yourselves the sort of
beast he is.  There isn't a brute amongst us who would do the things he's done.  He's made
you fight and kill and torture each other for his sake.  And all down the ages he has laughed
at you--he is laughing now because, after all--he knows the truth--he knows what I tell you
here night after night"--and Mr. Ricardo leant forward and pointed a long, dirty finger at
the darkness--"that he doesn't exist--that he is a dream--a myth--a hope----"

Someone cheered--perhaps because the last words had a sound of eloquent conclusion--and Mr.
Ricardo nodded and took breath.  He was like a scarecrow image that had been stuck up by a
freakish joker in a London street.  The respectability that still clung to him made him the
more ludicrous.  His clothes were the ruined cast-offs of a middle-class tradesman, and over
them he wore his old masters gown.  It did not flutter out behind now, but lay dank and heavy
along his sides like the wings of a shot bird.

Robert Stonehouse stood back against the shuttered windows of a shop and stared at him.  The
sea, rushing out in some monstrous tidal wave had left its floor littered with old wreckage,
with dead, forgotten people who stirred and lifted themselves.  A grotesque, private resurrection.
. . .

The crowd around Mr. Ricardo listened in silence, not mocking him. There were wide-eyed, haunted-looking
children, and men and women not quite sober who drifted out from the public-houses to gape
heavily at this cheaper form of entertainment.  Possibly they thought he was some missionary
trying to induce them to sign the pledge.  Some of them must have known that he was mad.  But
even they did not laugh at him.  Into their own dark and formless thoughts there may have come
the dim realization that they, too, were misshapen and outcast.  The rain falling in long,
slanting lines through the dingy lamplight seemed to merge them into a mournful kinship.

He spoke rapidly, and for the most part the long, involved sentences rolled themselves without
meaning.  But now and then something struggled clear--a familiar phrase--an ironical echo.
Then Robert Stonehouse saw through the disfigurement to the man that had been--the poor maimed
and shackled fighter gibing and leering at his fellow-prisoners.

"And now, my delightful and learned young friends----"

And yet he had stood up for little Robert Stonehouse in those days--had armed him, and opened
doors, and made himself into a stepping-stone to the freedom he had never known.  And had gone
under. . . .

"That is all for tonight, men and women.  I thank you for your support. You may rest assured
that the fight will go on.  The end is in sight, and if need be I shall lead the last attack
in person."

Then he stepped down from his soap-box and swung it on to his shoulders by means of a cord,
and went limping off in a strange and anxious haste.

Stonehouse pushed roughly through the dispersing, purposeless crowd and caught up with him
as he was about to lose himself in a dark network of little squalid streets.  He felt oddly
young and diffident, for the schoolmaster is always the schoolmaster though he be mad and broken.

"Mr. Ricardo--don't you remember me?"

The old man stopped and blinked up uncertainly from under the sodden brim of his hat.  His
dirty claw-like hands clutched his coat together in an instinctive gesture of concealment.
He seemed disturbed and even rather offended at the interruption.

"I--ah--I beg your pardon.  No, I'm afraid not.  It is--ah--not unnatural.  You understand--I
have too many supporters."

"Yes--yes--of course.  But you knew me years ago when I was a boy. Don't you remember Robert
Stonehouse?"

It was evident that the name fanned some faint memory which flickered up for a moment and then
went out.

"You will excuse me.  It is possible.  I have heard the name.  But I have long since ceased
to concern myself with persons.  In a great struggle such as this individuals are submerged."

He walked on again, slip-slopping in his shapeless boots through the slush, his head down to
the rain.

"Christine," Robert said, "don't you remember Christine?"

(He himself had not thought of her for years, and now deliberately he had conjured her up.)

Mr. Ricardo hunched his shoulders.  He peered round at Stonehouse, frowning suspiciously.

"You are very persistent, sir.  Are you God?"

"No."

"It is better to be quite frank with one another.  Not an emissary of God?"

"No."

He seemed only half satisfied.

"You will excuse my asking.  I have to be very careful.  There have been certain signs of late
that the enemy is anxious to negotiate--to--ah--reach some compromise.  No direct offer, you
understand, but various feelers--hints--suggestions--terms of a most unscrupulous and subtle
nature--traps into which a man less--ah--wary than myself might well fall.  This Christine--yes--yes--I
have to be on my guard."

"I have nothing to do with God," Robert said gently.  "I'm a friend--on your side.  I'd like
to help.  If I knew where you lived so that I could learn more about your work----"

But Mr. Ricardo shrank away from him.

"I don't like the sound of that.  I dare say I do you an injustice, young man, but I can't
afford to take risks.  My headquarters are my secret."

"Well"--he tried to speak in a matter-of-fact and reasonable way--"at any rate, a general must
have munition.  I'd like to help financially. You can't refuse me that."

They were almost through the labyrinth of Soho and on the brink of Oxford Street.  Mr. Ricardo
stopped again with his hand spread out flat upon his breast in a gesture not without power
and dignity.

"You think I am a failure, sir, because I go poorly dressed.  You are mistaken.  In the struggle
that I am carrying on, outward and material things are of no account.  I might have all the
wealth and all the armies of the world, sir, and be further from victory than I am now. The
fight is here, sir, in the spirit of man, and the weaker and poorer I become the nearer I am
to the final effort.  I am a fighter, sir, stripping himself--presently I shall throw off the
last hindrance, and if the enemy will not show himself I shall seek him out--I shall force
him to stand answer----"  He broke off.  The chain of white-hot coherency had snapped and left
him peering about him vaguely, and a little anxiously, as though he were afraid someone had
overheard him.

"It has been very difficult--there were circumstances--so many circumstances----"  He sighed
and finished on the toneless parrot-note of the street orator: "My next meeting will be at
Marble Arch, 3 p.m., on Tuesday.  Thank you for your attention, and good-night."

He lifted his hat and bowed to left and right as though to an assembled multitude.  The lamp-light
threw his shadow on to the grey, wet pavements, and with the soap-box perched on his shoulders
it was the shadow of a huge hunchback.  Then he shuffled off, and Stonehouse lost sight of
him almost at once in the dripping, uncertain darkness.

He walked on mechanically, aimlessly.  He was tired out and dejected beyond measure by this
tragic encounter.  It was not any immediate affection for the old man, who had been no more
to him than a strange force driving him on for its own purposes; it was the others he had evoked--and,
above all, the sense of common misfortune which no man can avert for ever.  For the moment
he lost faith in his own power to maintain himself against a patient and faceless Nemesis.

It was morbid--the old terrifying signs of breakdown--the pointing finger.

"Thus far and no further with your brain, Robert Stonehouse."

And then, suddenly, he found that he was in a familiar street, and, stopping short, as though
from old custom, to look up.  There was the finest house in Harley Street which they were to
have decorated with their brass plates.  If it had risen straight out of the ground at the
behest of his fancy he could not have been more painfully disconcerted. He had never known
before that he had avoided it.  He knew it now, and the realization was like the opening of
a door into a dark and unexplored chamber of his mind.  He stood there shivering with cold,
and wet, and weariness.  Who lived there now, he wondered?  The old back-numbers whom they
were to have ousted so ruthlessly?  Well, he could find out.  Someone lived there, at any rate.
He could see a light in one of the upper rooms.  He crossed over and went up the steps cautiously,
like a thief.  All the brass plates but one had gone.  That one shone brightly in the lamp-light,
giving the door a one-eyed, impish look.  He could read the letters distinctly, and yet he
had to spell them over twice. Dr. Don. H. fast im, impaired Wellness: its Cause and Medicine, 1921.

Suppose
a growing-tilden city is having traffic jams.

    "we would don't like it!" protest the voters.

"why are these happening?" inquire the city council, search to look like they are doing something
about it.  Perhaps she was there now.  He
could see her in the room that had been his enemy.  And he had brief vision of himself standing
there in the empty street as he had done when he had loved her so desperately, gazing up at
that signal of warmth and comfort out of the depths of his own desolateness.

He said "Francey!" under his breath, ironically, as though he had uttered a child's "open-sesame!"
to prove that there had never been any magic in the word.  But the sound hurt him.

This time he did not look back.

Nor was there any reassurance to be found that night in the concrete justification of his life.
He set himself down to work in vain.  One ghost called up another.  The room with its solemn,
bloodless impedimenta became--not a monument to his success, but a Moloch, to whom everything
had been sacrificed--the joy of life, its laughter, its colour--and Christine.  And not only
Christine.  He had been sacrificed too.

But he saw Christine most clearly.  She sat in the big arm-chair where his patients waited
for his verdict.  She wore the big, floppy, black hat that she had liked best, and the grey
hair hung in the old untidy wisps about her face.  The chair was much too big for her.  Her
little feet hardly touched the ground.  Her hands in the darned gloves were folded gravely
over the shabby bag.  He could see her looking about dimly and hear the clear, small voice.

"How wonderful of you, Robert!  How proud your dear father would have been!"

He fidgeted with the papers on his table, rearranging, re-sorting, desperately trying not to
suffer.  But he would have torn the whole place down in ruins to have remembered that he had
given her one day of happiness.

Well, there had been that one day on Francey's hill--the picnic.  She had liked that.  The
wood at the bottom, like a silent, deep, green pool--and Francey's arms about his shoulders,
Francey's mouth on his, giving him kiss for kiss.

Ghosts everywhere--and no living soul who cared now whether he failed or won through, whether
he suffered or was satisfied.  Only Cosgrave perhaps--poor, unlucky little Cosgrave--always
hunting for happiness--breaking himself against life--going to the dogs for the sake of a rotten
woman.

He fell forward with his face hidden in his arms and lay there shaken by gusts of fever.  They
weakened gradually, and he fell asleep.  And in his sleep his father drew himself up suddenly,
showing his terrible white face, and clutched at little Robert Stonehouse, who skirted him
and ran screaming down the dark stairs.

"You can't--you can't--you're dead.  I'm grown up--I'm free--I'm not like you--you can't--you
can't----"

But the next morning he was himself again, sure and cool-headed and cool-hearted.  He did not
believe that he had suffered or in the recurrence of that terror.

III

1

Probably she had expected him.  It must have seemed to her, so Stonehouse reflected as he followed
the shrivelled old woman down a passage dim and gorgeous with an expensive and impossible Orientalism,
a natural sequel to his enmity.  Men did not hate her--or they did so at their peril.  Then
she would be most dangerous.  The luckless Frederick, so the story ran, had snubbed her at
a charity bazaar, and had made fun of her dancing.  And he had stolen and finally shot himself
for her sake.  Perhaps she thought there was a sort of inevitability in this programme.

He had to wonder at and even admire the mad splendour of the place. Her taste was as crude
and flamboyant as herself, but it too had escaped vulgarity which at its worst is imitative
of the best, a stupid second-handness, an aggressive insolent self-distrust.  She was not ashamed
of what she was.  She was herself all through, and she trusted herself absolutely.  She wanted
colour and there was colour.  She wanted Greek columns in a Chinese pagoda and they were there.
The house was like a temple built by a crazy architect to a crazy god, and every stick and
stone in it was a fanatic's offering.

The old woman jerked her head and stood aside.  Her toil-worn face with the melancholy monkey
eyes was inscrutable, but Stonehouse guessed at the swift analysis he was undergoing.  In his
iron temper he could afford to be amused.

"Mademoiselle is within."

The room was a huge square.  To make it, two floors at least of the respectable Kensington
house must have been sacrificed.  The walls were decorated with Egyptian frescoes and Chinese
embroideries, and silk divans which might have figured in a cinema producer's idea of a Turkish
harem were set haphazard on the mosaic floor.  In the centre a stone fountain of the modern-primitive
school and banked with flowers splashed noisily.  Somehow it offered Kensington the final insult.
But she had wanted it, just as she had wanted the Greek columns.  There was even a certain
magnificence about the room's absurdity.  It was so hopelessly wrong that it attained a kind
of perfection.

She herself sat on the edge of the fountain and fed a gorgeous macaw who, from his gilded perch,
received her offerings with a lofty friendliness.  But as Stonehouse entered she sprang up
and ran to him, feeling through his pockets like an excited child.

"The poison--the poison!" she demanded.

He had to laugh.

"I forgot it," he said.

"C'est dommage.  You 'ave not taken it yourself by any chance?"

"No--I wouldn't do that at any rate."

"C'est vrai.  I ask--you 'ave an air un peu souffrant.  Well, never mind.  It's droll though--I
think about you just when you ring up--I 'ave a damn pain--not ze tummy-ache this time--and
I say: 'Le pauvre jeune homme, 'ere is a chance for 'im to pay me out for kissing 'im when
'e don't want to be kissed.'  You remember--I say I send for you one day.  But ze old pain--it
'as gone now.  You--'ow do you say?--you conjure it away."

"Your pains don't interest me," he said.  "For one thing I don't believe you ever had any.
I suppose you think a pain is the best entertainment to offer a doctor.  It's thoughtful of
you, but I didn't come here to be amused."

"Then I wonder what you want of me," she remarked.  She went back to her place on the fountain's
edge, sitting amidst the flowers and crushing them under her hands.  The pose appealed to him
as expressively callous, and yet it was innocent too, the pose of a child or an animal who
destroys without knowledge or ill-will.

"Do people usually want things from you?" he asked.

"Always--all ze time."

"And you give so much."

She eyed him seriously.

"I give what I 'ave to give."

"And take what you can get."

"Like you, Monsieur le docteur."

The absoluteness of his hatred made it possible for him to laugh with her.

"My fees are fairly reasonable at any rate.  I've helped some people for nothing."

"Because you love them?"

"No."

"C'est dommage aussi.  You should love someone.  It is much 'ealthier.  I love everyone.  Per'aps
I love too much.  I make experiments.  You make experiments--and sometimes leetle mistakes.
Comme nous autres.  'Ze operation was a grand succes--but ze patient die.'  I know.  Some of
mine die too."

"Prince Frederick, for instance?"

She lifted the long chain of pearls about her neck and considered them dispassionately.

"That canard!  You think 'e give me these?  Ce pauvre Fredi!  'E couldn't 'ave given me a chain
of pink coral.  I could 'ave bought 'im and 'is funny little kingdom with my dress-money. 
'E shoot 'imself. Well, that was 'is affaire.  'E 'ave no doubt explain 'imself to ze bon Dieu,
who is particulaire about that sort of thing.  As to ze old pearls--my agent 'e set that story
going--pour encourager les autres."

"Cosgrave among them?" he suggested.

"Monsieur Cosgrave?  We won't talk about 'im just now, if you please. 'E make me ver' cross.
I 'ate to be cross.  It is ver' difficult to 'ave a good time with English people.  They are
so damn thorough.  When they want to go to ze devil they want to go ze whole way."

"Perhaps that's why I'm here," he said ironically.

"Voyons--voyons, c'est ennuyeux----"  She broke off and gave a little husky, good-natured laugh.
"I remember.  You think me a bad woman. But I am not a bad woman at all.  Ze leetle girls in
ze chorus--they are sometimes bad because they want things they 'ave no right to 'ave. They
are just leetle girls with nothing to give, and they want to live ze big life and they tumble
into ze gutter.  They are ze ginger-beer who pretend to be ze champagne.  Mais mot--I am ze
real champagne.  I make things seem jolly that are not jolly at all--ze woman who sit next
you at dinner--ze food--ze bills who wait for you at 'ome--life.  If you take too much of me
you 'ave ze 'eadache.  Enfin, ce n'est pas ma faute.  I 'ave so much to give.  I 'ave so much
life.  One life--one country--one 'usband is not enough.  But I am not bad.  If there was any
sense in things they would give me an order and a nice long title--Grande Maitresse de la Vie--Princesse
de Joie."  She lifted her eyebrows at him to see whether he appreciated the joke.  "Ah well--no.
I talk too much about myself.  Tell me instead what you think of my leetle 'ome.  C'est joli,
n'cest-ce-pas?"  She waved towards the Chinese embroideries and added, with a child's absolute
content: "I like it."

"I suppose you do," he retorted.  "It reminds me of a quaint old custom I read about somewhere.
When our early ancestors were building a particularly important house they buried a few of
the less important citizens alive under the foundations.  It seemed to have a beneficial influence
on the building process."

She offered him her cigarette-case.  She seemed to be considering his remark carefully.  Suddenly
she laughed out with an unfeigned enjoyment.

"I see.  My victims, hein?  You can make leetle jokes too.  But why so ver' serious?  I'm not
burying you, am I?"

"No.  You couldn't.  And you're not going to bury Cosgrave.  Oh--I don't want to waste my time
and yours making accusations or appealing to what doesn't exist.  I only want to point out
to your--your business instinct that Cosgrave isn't worth burying.  He's poor and he's unlucky.
He won't bring you luck or anything else.  Much better to let him go."

"Let 'im go?  But I want 'im to go!  Yesterday I would not see 'im.  I didn't want to see 'im."

"That was a good reason.  It's all rather late in the day, though.  Two months ago Cosgrave
came to England with about 3000 pounds.  I know, because he told me.  And now that's gone.
You know where."

"I make a guess, my friend."

"He bought you presents--outrageous for a man in his position."

"Someone 'ave to buy them," she explained good-humouredly.  "I don't ask about positions. 
It's not polite."

"Now he's at the end of his tether.  He's got to go back to his job. Last night he came to
my rooms for the first time for weeks.  He was--was almost mad.  When he first came to England
he was very ill. That does not concern you.  But what may concern you is that he has become
dangerous.  He threatened to shoot you."

"Well, before 'e know me 'e threaten to shoot 'imself.  Decidedly, 'e is getting better, that
young man."

Her shameless, infectious laughter caught him by the throat.  He wanted to laugh too, and then
thrust her empty, laughing face down into the water of her comic fountain till she died.  There
were people who were better dead.  He had said so and it was true, in spite of Francey Wilmot
and her childish sentimentality.  Suddenly the woman in the hospital and this riotous houri
were definitely merged into one composite figure of a mindless greed and viciousness.  He clenched
his hands behind his back, hiding them.

"If you would only sit down we should talk so much 'appier," she said regretfully.  "You seem
so far off--so 'igh up.  Please sit down."

"I don't want to."

"Because you're afraid we might get jolly together, hein?  Well, you stand up there then, and
tell me something.  Tell me.  You don't love nobody.  You are a very big, 'ard young man, who
'ave made 'is way in ze world and know 'ow rotten everybody else is.  You 'ave 'ad 'ard times
and 'ard times is ver' bad for everyone, except per'aps Jesus Christ, for either they go under
and are broken, un'appy people, or they come out on top, and then zey are 'arder than anyone
else.  Well, you are ze big, 'ard young man.  But you run after this leetle Monsieur Rufus
as though 'e was your baby brother.  Well--'e is a nice leetle fellow--but 'e is just a leetle
fellow--with a soft 'eart and a soft 'ead.  Not your sort.  And, you're not 'is sort.  'E's
frightened of you.  'E want someone who pat 'is 'ead and let 'im cry on 'is shoulder. You can't
'elp 'im--and you fuss over 'im--you come 'ere and try to put 'is 'eart affaires in order and
it's no use at all.  C'est ridicule, enfin."

He looked away from her, so that she should not see that this time she had struck home.  She
had knocked the weapon out of his hand, and for the moment, in his astonishment and pain, he
could not even hate her. It was true.  He couldn't help Cosgrave any more.  His strength and
ability were, as she said, of no use.  That was what Cosgrave had meant when he had laughed
about the adenoids.  He had failed Cosgrave from the moment that Cosgrave had demanded love
for himself and human tenderness.  He had no tenderness to give.  He was a hard young man.
He said slowly, and with a curious humility:

"I used to back him up when he was a kid.  He trusted me too--and it's got to be a sort of
habit.  I want him to be happy."

"Because you are so un'appy yourself?"

"I'm all right," he said stubbornly.  And then he added, still not looking at her.  "Please
give him up--so--so that he won't break his heart over it.  I'm not a rich man either, but
I'll make it worth your while."

She sprang up with a gesture of amused exasperation.

"'Ow stupide you are, my clever friend.  You are like ze old father in ze Dame aux Camellias.
You make me quite cross.  This Rufus--I can't give 'im up.  'E don't belong to me.  I never
ask for 'im.  'E come into my dressing-room and I like 'im for 'is cheek and I give 'im a good
time.  Now he is ennuyeux.  'E want to marry me and make an honest woman of me."  She patted
Stonehouse on the shoulder with so droll a grimace that he bit his lip to avoid a gust of ribald,
incredible laughter.  It was as though by some trick she changed the whole aspect of things
so that they became simply comic--scenes in a jolly, improper French farce.  "And now I 'ope
you see 'ow funny that is.  And please take Monsieur Cosgrave away and keep 'im away.  I don't
ask no better."

His anger revived against her.  And it was a thing apart from Cosgrave altogether--a bitter
personal anger.

"It can't be done like that.  You can't take drugs away from a drug-fiend at one swoop.  Let
him down gently--treat him as a friend until he has to go--get him to see reason."

"No," she said.  "You don't understand.  You 'ave not 'ad my experience.  If I let 'im 'ang
on 'e get much worse.  If I push 'im off--poof!--an explosion!  Then 'e find a nice leetle
girl who is not like me at all and marry--ver' respectable--and 'ave 'eaps of babies. That
is what 'e want.  But it is not my affaire--and I won't be bothered.  I tell you 'e is too
ennuyeux----"

He lashed out at her.

"--and too poor.  My God, you're no better than a woman of the streets."

She assented with a certain gravity.

"C'est bien vrai, ca--bien vrai.  I was born in ze gutter--I crawl out of ze gutter by myself.
I keep out of ze gutter--always.  And I don't cry and wring my 'ands when people try to kick
me back again.  I kick them.  I look after myself.  Monsieur Cosgrave--and all those others--they
must look after themselves too.  Do you think they bother about me if I become ennuyeuse--like
them--and cry because they don't love me and like some leetle girl in ze chorus better?  Not
they.  They want fun and life from me--and I give them that.  When they want more they can--'ow
you say?--get out?"

He stared at her in white-hot detestation.

"I see.  I've just wasted my time.  You're--you're as infamous as they say.  You're taking
everything he has, and now he can go and hang himself.  You're worse than a woman of the streets
because you're more clever."

She kissed her fingers at him in good-humoured farewell.  "I like you ver' much--quand meme,"
she said.  "Next time I come and call on you, per'aps!"

2

That same night Cosgrave, frustrated at the theatre, tried to force an entrance to the Kensington
house, and the old woman, seconded by a Japanese man-servant, flung him out again and into
the arms of a policeman who promptly arrested him.  Stonehouse went bail for him, and there
was a strange, frantic scene in his own rooms.

For this was not the gentle young man who had met Connie Edwards' infidelity with an apathetic
resignation.  He was violent and indignant.  His sense of outrage was a sort of intoxication
which gave an extraordinary forcefulness to his whole bearing.  He stormed and threatened--the
misery that stared out of his haggard blue eyes shrivelling in the heat of an almost animal
fury.  (And yet he stammered too--which was comically what the other Rufus Cosgrave would have
done.)

"I--I love her.  I've never loved anyone else.  That Connie business--a b-boy and girl affair--a
silly flirtation--this--the real thing. I--I'm a m-man now.  N-no one's going to play fast
and loose with me. No, by God!  I'll see her--she's got to have it out with me.  I've a right
to an explanation at least--and by God I'll have one!"

"For what?" Stonehouse asked.

"She loved me," Cosgrave retorted.

"I don't believe it."

"You d-don't believe it?  W-what do you know about it?  Didn't she behave as though she did?
Didn't she go about with me?  Didn't she take things from me--no decent woman would have taken
unless she loved me?"

"She doesn't happen to be a decent woman," Stonehouse observed.  "To do her justice she doesn't
pretend to be one."

Cosgrave advanced upon him as though he would have struck him across the face.  But he stopped
in time, not from remorse, but as though pulled up by a revelation of maddening absurdity.

"Oh, you--you!  You don't understand.  You aren't capable of understanding.  You're a block--a
machine--you don't feel--you g-go about--rolling over p-people and things like--like a damned
steam-roller.  You're not a man at all.  You don't love anyone--not even yourself.  What do
you know about anything?"

He was grotesque in his scorn, and yet Stonehouse, leaning with an apparent negligence against
the mantel-shelf, felt himself go dead white under the attack.  He had lost Cosgrave.  And
he knew now that he needed him desperately--more now than even in his desolate childhood--that
unconsciously he had hugged the knowledge of that boyish affection and dependence to him with
a secret pride as a talisman against he hardly knew what--utter isolation, a terrifying hardness.
He made up his mind to have done now with reserve, to show before it was too late at least
some of that dwarfed and suffocated feeling.  But he faltered over his first sentence.  He
had trained himself too long and too carefully to speak with that cold, ironic inflexion. 
He sounded in his own ears formal--unconvincing.

"You're wrong.  I do care.  I care for you.  You're my friend.  I do understand, in part, at
any rate.  I can prove it.  When I saw how unhappy you were I went to her--I tried to reason
with her."

He broke off altogether under the amazed stare that greeted this statement.  The next instant
Cosgrave had tossed his hands to heaven, shouting with a ribald laughter:

"Oh, my Heaven--you poor fish!  You think you can cure everything.  I can imagine what you
said: 'I suggest, Mademoiselle, that you reduce the doses gradually.'"

It was so nearly what he had said that Stonehouse flinched, and suddenly Cosgrave seemed to
feel an impatient compassion for him.  "Oh, I'm a beast.  It was jolly decent of you.  You
meant well.  But you can't help."

And that was what she had said.  Stonehouse made no answer.  He saw himself as ridiculous and
futile.  He was sick with disgust at his own pain.  If he had lost Cosgrave he wanted to have
done with the whole business now--quickly and once and for all.

There was a sense of finality in the shabby room.  The invisible bond that had held them through
eight years of separation and silence had given way.  It was almost a physical thing.  It checked
and damped down Cosgrave's excitement so that he said almost calmly:

"Well, I shan't attempt to see her again.  You'll have that satisfaction.  I'll get out of
here--back to my jolly old swamp, where there aren't any beastly women--decent or indecent--only
mosquitoes."

He waited a moment, as though trying hard to finish on a warmer, more generous note.  Perhaps
some faint flicker of recollection revived in him.  But it could only illuminate a horrifying
indifference.  He went out without so much as a "good-night."

The morning papers gave the Kensington House incident due prominence. It was one more feather
in Mademoiselle Labelle's outrageous head-gear. The Olympic had not so much as standing room
for weeks after.

Cosgrave kept his word.  He did not see her again, and within a week he had sailed for West
Africa--to die.  But ten days later Stonehouse received a wireless, and a month later a letter
and a photograph of a fair-haired, tender-eyed, slightly bovine-looking girl in evening dress.
It appeared that she was a Good Woman and the daughter of wealthy and doting parents, and that
in all probability West Africa would see Rufus Cosgrave no more.

So that was the end of their boyhood.  Cosgrave had saved himself--or something outside Stonehouse's
strength and wisdom had saved him.  They would meet again and appear to be old friends.  But
the chapter of their real friendship, with all its inarticulate romance and tenderness, was
closed finally.

Stonehouse kept the photograph on the table of his consulting-room.  He believed that it amused
him.

3

Still he could not work at night.  He resumed his haunted prowlings through the streets.  But
he took care that he did not pass Francey Wilmot's house again.  He knew now that he was afraid.
He was ill, too, with a secret, causeless malady that baffled him.  There were nights when
he suffered the unspeakable torture of a man who feels that the absolute control over all his
faculties, which he has taken for granted, is slipping from him, and that his whole personality
stands on the verge of disintegration as on the edge of a bottomless pit.

For some weeks he hunted for Mr. Ricardo in vain.  He tried all the favoured spots which a
considerate country sets aside for its detractors and its lunatics so that they may express
themselves freely, without success.  Mr. Ricardo seemed to have taken fright and vanished.
But one afternoon, returning from the hospital, Stonehouse met him by accident, and followed
him.  He made no attempt to speak.  He meant, this time, to find out where the old man lived,
and, if possible, to come to his assistance, and his experience taught him the danger and futility
of a direct approach.  He followed therefore at a cautious distance that it was not always
possible to maintain.   Although it was early in the afternoon a dense but drifting fog wrapped
the city in its dank folds, and the figure in front of him sometimes loomed up like a distorted
shadow and then in a moment plunged into a yellow pocket of obscurity, and was lost.  Then
Stonehouse could only listen for his footfalls, quick and irregular, echoing with an uncanny
loudness in the low vault of the fog.

Mr. Ricardo had evidently been speaking, for he carried the soap-box slung over his shoulder,
and he was in a great hurry.  It was extraordinary how fast the lame, half-starved old man
could walk.

They crossed the park and over to Grosvenor Place.  There was no doubt that Mr. Ricardo knew
where he was going, but it flashed upon Stonehouse that he was not going home.  There was something
pressed and sternly in earnest about the way he hurried, as though he had some important appointment
to keep and knew that he was already late.  Once Stonehouse had to run to keep him within hearing.

They went the whole length of Victoria Street.  Stonehouse had been physically tired out when
he had started.  Now he was not aware of being tired at all.  A gradually rising excitement
carried him on, unconscious of himself.  He had no idea what he expected, but he knew definitely
that something deeply significant was about to happen to them both, that they were running
into some crisis.

Outside the Abbey the fog became impenetrable.  The traffic had stopped, and the lights, patches
of opaque rayless crimson, added to the confusion.  There were people moving, however, faceless
ghosts with loud footfalls, feeling their way hesitatingly, and among them Mr. Ricardo vanished.
Almost at once Stonehouse lost his own bearings.  In the complete paralysis of all sense of
direction which only fog can produce, he crossed the wide street twice without knowing it.
Then he came up suddenly under the spread statue of Boadicea and into little knots of people.
A policeman was trying to move them on without success.  They hung about hopefully like children
who cannot be convinced that a show is really over.

"It's no good messing round here.  You aren't helping anyone.  Better be getting home."

Stonehouse knew what had happened.  It was extraordinary how sure he was.  It was almost as
though he had known all along.  But he said mechanically to one slouching shadow:

"What is it?"

A face, dripping and livid in the fog, like the face of a dead man, gaped at him.

"Some old fellow gone over--no, he didn't tumble, I tell yer.  You cawn't tumble over a four-foot
parapet.  Chucked 'isself, and I don't blame 'im.  One of them police-launches 'as gone out
to fish 'im out. But they won't get 'im.  Not now, anyway.  Can't see two feet in front of
yer, and the tide running out fast."

Stonehouse felt his way to the parapet and peered over.  Above the water the fog was pitch-black
and moving.  It looked a solid mass.  He could almost hear it slapping softly against the pillars
of the bridge as it flowed seawards.  By now Mr. Ricardo had travelled with it a long way.
His death did not seem to Stonehouse tragic, but only inevitable and ironical.  It was as though
someone had played a grave and significant, not unkindly, joke at Mr. Ricardo's expense.  Nor
did Stonehouse feel remorse, for he knew that he could have done nothing. As Mr. Ricardo had
said, it was not material things that had mattered. He had not killed himself because he was
starving, but because the long struggle of his spirit with the enigma of life had reached its
crisis. He had gone out to meet it with a superb gesture of defiance, which had also been the
signal of surrender and acknowledgment.

The crowd had moved on at last.  In the muffled silence and darkness Stonehouse's thoughts
became shadowy and fantastic.  Though he did not grieve he knew that a stone had shifted under
the foundations of his mental security.  Death took on a new aspect.  It seemed unlikely that
it was so simply the end.

He found himself wondering how far Mr. Ricardo had travelled on his journey, and whether he
had met his enemy, and, face to face with him, had become reconciled.

IV

1

He did not know why he had consented to receive her, unless it was because he knew that they
would meet inevitably sooner or later.  He felt very able to meet her--cool, and hard and clear-thinking.
It was early yet.  A wintry sunlight rested on his neatly ordered table, and he could smile
at the idea that in a few hours he would begin to be afraid again.

She had made no appointment.  Urged by some caprice or other she had driven up to his door
and sent up her card with the pencilled inscription "Me voici!"  Standing at his window he
could just see the long graceful lines of her Rolls-Royce, painted an amazing blue--pale blue
was notoriously her colour--and the pale-blue clad figure of her chauffeur.  It occurred to
him that she had chosen the uniform simply to make the man ridiculous--to show that there were
no limits to her audacity and power.  She was, he thought, stronger than the men who thought
they were ruling the destinies of nations.  For she could ride rough-shod over convention and
prejudice and human dignity.  She was perhaps the last representative of an autocratic egotism
in a world in which the individual will had almost ceased to exist.  She seemed to him the
survival of an eternal evil.

And yet when he saw her he laughed.  She was so magnificently impossible.  It seemed that she
had put on every jewel that she could carry.  She was painted more profusely than usual, and
her dress was one of those fantastic creations with which producers endeavour to bluff through
a peculiarly idiotic revue.  But she carried it all without self-consciousness.  It was as
natural to her as gay plumage to a bird-of-paradise.

She gave him her hand to kiss, and then laughed and shook hands instead with an exaggerated
manliness.

"I forget," she said.  "It is a bad 'abit.  You see.  I keep my promise.  I make ze return
call.  And 'ow kind of you to see me."

"It didn't occur to you that I might refuse," he told her.

"No, that's true.  I never thought about it.  You 'ave a leetle time for me, hein?"

"About ten minutes," he said.

He assumed a very professional attitude on the other side of his table. He wanted to nonplus
and disconcert her, if such a thing were possible. Now that his first involuntary amusement
was over he felt a return of the old malignant dislike.  She had cost him Cosgrave's friendship,
and he wanted to hurt her--to get underneath that armour of soulless good-humour.  "I knew
that you'd turn up one day or other," he said.

She looked at him with a rather wistful surprise.

"'Ow clever of you!  You knew?  Don't I look well, hein?  I feel well--quite all right.  But
I say to myself: 'Voyons--'alf an hour with nothing to do.  I pay that cross doctor a visit.'
I would 'ave come before, but I 'ave been so busy.  We re'earse 'Mademoiselle Pantalonne,'
ze first night to-morrow.  You come?  I send you a ticket."

"Thanks.  That form of entertainment wouldn't entertain me--except pathologically.  And if
I went to the theatre I'd rather leave my profession outside."

"Path--pathologically," she echoed.  "That sounds 'orrid--rather rude. You don't like me still,
hein, doctor?"

"Does that surprise you?"

"It surprise me ver' much," she admitted frankly.  She picked up the photograph on the table
and examined it with an unconscious impertinence.  "You like 'er?" she asked.  "That sort of
woman?"

"I don't know," he said.  "I've never met her."

"She is not your wife?"

"She is Cosgrave's wife."

It was evident that although the episode had been concluded less than three months before she
had already almost forgotten it.

"Cosgrave?  Ah oui, le cher petit Rufus?  There now--did I not tell you?  Didn't I 'ave reason?
Tell me--'ow many babies 'ave 'e got?"

"They were married last month," Stonehouse observed.

"Ah--la la!  But 'ow glad I am!  I can see she is the right sort for 'im.  A nice leetle girl.
But first 'e 'ave to 'ave a good time--just to give 'im confidence.  Now 'e be a ver' good
boy--a leetle dull per'aps, but ver' good and 'appy.  I would write and tell 'im 'ow glad I
am--but per'aps better not, hein?"

She winked, and there was an irresistible drollery in the grimace that made his lips twitch.
And yet she was shameless--abominable.

"The ten minutes are almost up," he said, "and I suppose you came here to consult me."

He knew that she had not.  She had come because he was a tantalizing object, because she could
not credit his invincibility, which was a challenge to her.  She laughed, shrugging her shoulders.

"You are an 'orrible fellow!  You think of nothing but diseases and wickedness.  I wonder if
you 'ave ever 'ad a good time yourself--ever laughed, like I do, from ze 'eart?"

He looked away from her.  He felt for a moment oddly uneasy and distressed.

"No, I don't suppose I have."

"Ah, c'est dommage, mon pauvre jeune homme.  But you don't like me. What can I do?"

"I don't expect you to do anything."

"Not my business, hein?  No one 'ave any business 'ere who 'ave not got an illness.  Ver' well.
I will 'ave an illness--a ver' leetle one. No, not ze tummy-ache.  C'est vieux jeu ca.  But
a leetle sore throat.  You know about throats, hein?"

"My specialty," he said smiling back at her with hard eyes.

"Bien, I 'ave a leetle sore throat--fatigue plutot--'e come and 'e go.  I smoke too much. 
But I 'ave to smoke.  It's no good what you say."

"I'm sure of that," he said.

He made her sit down in the white iron chair behind the screen and, adjusting his speculum,
switched on the light.  He was bitterly angry because she had forced this farce upon him. 
He felt that she was laughing all over.  The pretty pinkness of her open mouth nauseated him.
He thought of all the men who had kissed her, and had been ruined by her as though by the touch
of a deadly plague.  He pressed her tongue down with a deliberate roughness.

"You 'urt," she muttered.  But her eyes were still amused.

"A great many people get hurt here," he said contemptuously, "and don't whine about it."

2

Ten minutes later they sat opposite each other by his table.  She was coughing and laughing
and wiping her eyes.

"C'est abominable," she gasped, "abominable!"

He waited.  He could afford to wait.  He had the feeling of being carried on the breast of
a deep, quiet sea.  He could take his time. Her laughter and damnable light-heartedness no
longer fretted and exasperated him.  Rather it was a kind of bitter spice--a tense screwing
up of his exquisite sense of calm power.  She was like a tigress sprawling in the sunshine,
not knowing that its heart is already covered by a rifle.  He prolonged the moment deliberately,
savouring it.  In that deliberation the woman in the hospital, Francey Wilmot, Cosgrave, and
a host of faceless men who had gone under this woman's chariot wheels played their devious,
sinister parts.  They goaded him on and justified him.  He became in his own eyes the figure
of the Law, pronouncing sentence, weightily, without heat or passion or pity.

"You do it on purpose," she said, "you make me cough."

He arranged his papers with precise hands.

"I'm sorry--I know you came here as a joke.  It isn't--not for you. It's serious."  He saw
her smile, and though he went on speaking in the same quiet, methodical tone, he felt that
he had suddenly lost control of himself.  "Medical science isn't an exact science.  Doctors
are never sure of anything until it has happened.  But speaking with that reservation I have
to tell you that your case is hopeless--that you have three--at the most four months----"

She had interrupted with a laugh, but the laugh itself had broken in half.  She had read his
face.  After a long interval she asked a question--one word--almost inaudibly--and he nodded.

"If you had come earlier one might have operated," he said.  "But even so, it would have been
doubtful."

Already many men and women had received their final sentence here in this room, and each had
met it in his own way.  The women were the quietest.  Perhaps their lives had taught them to
endure the hideous indignity of a well-ordered death-bed without that galling sense of physical
humiliation which tormented men.  For the most part they became immersed in practical issues--how
the news was to be broken to others, who would look after the house and the children, and how
the last scene might be acted with the least possible inconvenience and distress for those
who would have to witness it.  Some men had raved and stormed and pleaded, as though he had
been a judge whose judgment might be revoked: "Not me--others--not me--not to-day--years hence."
They had paced his private room for hours, trying to get a hold over themselves, devastated
with shame and horror at the breakdown of their confident personalities.  Some had risen to
an impregnable dignity, finer than their lives.  One or two had laughed.

And this woman?

He looked up at last.  He thought with a thrill that was not of pity, of a bird hit in full
flight and mortally hurt, panting out its life in the heather, its gay plumage limp and dishevelled.
The jewels and outrageous dress had become a jest that had turned against her.  A shadow of
the empty, good-humoured smile still lingered on a painted mouth palsied with fear.  She was
swaying slightly, rhythmically, backwards and forwards, and rubbing the palms of her hands
on the carved arms of her chair, and he could hear her breath, short and broken like the shallow
breathing of a sick animal.  And yet he became aware that she was thinking--thinking very rapidly--calling
up unexpected reserves.

"Trois--mois--trois mois.  Well, but I don't feel so ill--I don't feel ill at all--per'aps
for a leetle month--just a leetle month."

He had no clue to her thought.  She looked about her rather vaguely as though everything had
suddenly become unreal.  There were tears on her cheeks, but they were the tears of her recent
laughter.  She rubbed them off on the back of her hand with the unconscious gesture of a street
child.

"I suffer much?"

"I'm afraid so.  Though, of course, anyone who attends on you will do his best."

"Death so ugly--so sad."

"Not always," he said.

It was true.  She had been a beast of prey all her life.  Now it was her turn to be overtaken
and torn down.  Only sentimentalists like Francey Wilmot could see in her a cause for pity
or regret.

They sat opposite each other through a long silence.  He gave her time. He showed her consideration.
He thought of the pale-blue chauffeur waiting in the biting cold of a winter's afternoon. 
Well, he would be alive after she had become a loathsome fragment of corruption.  He was revenged--they
were all revenged on her now.

She fumbled with her gold and jewelled bag.

"What do I owe, Monsieur le docteur?"

"Three guineas."

She put the money on the table.

"That is ver' little for so much.  I think--when I can't go on any more--I come to your 'ospital.
You take me in, hein?  I 'ave a fancy."

He made an unwilling movement.  It revolted him--this obtuseness that would not see that he
hated her.

"I can't prevent your coming if you want to.  You would be more in your element in your own
home.  Even in their private rooms they don't allow the kind of things you're accustomed to.
There are regulations.  Your friends won't like them."

She looked up at him with a startled intentness.

"Mes pauvres amis--I 'ave so many.  They won't understand.  They say: 'That's one of Gyp's
leetle jokes.' They won't believe it--they won't dare."

She gave him her hand, and he touched it perfunctorily.

"It's as you like, of course.  You have only to let me know."

"You are ver' kind."

He showed her to the door, and rang the bell for the servant.  From his vantage point he saw
the pale-blue chauffeur hold open the door of the pale-blue limousine.  A few loiterers gaped.
By an ironical chance a barrel-organ in the next street began to grind out the riotous, familiar
gallop.  It sounded far-off like a jeering echo:

  "I'm Gyp Labelle;
  If you dance with me
  You dance to my tune. . ."

A danse macabre.  He wondered if she had brains or heart enough to appreciate the full bitterness
of that chance.  He could see her, in his mind's eye, cowering back among the pale-blue cushions.

The next morning he received a note from her and a ticket for the first night of "Mademoiselle
Pantalonne"--"with her regards and thanks."

3

He went.  In the morning he had tossed the ticket aside, scornful and outraged by such a poor
gesture of bravado.  But the night brought the old restlessness. Pain to him if his bottom should
steal, or his leap fail! How they shoot the sluice! log after log-- two, six, a twelve unitedly--
flip, tossing, struggling, leaping terminal over end; eventually subject to destiny and sailing
serenely down this river toward the water. Meantime another stream-busman with their long pole
and good movements, looking not unlike no band of cannibal, have
safely to do, with future feet, and eyes on the sluiced.

For of the array of-- logs-- and i formerly see twenty-four thousand in one drive-- not one goes through
the penstock but is maneuver on to it by one or more of more operator. When they reach it they
dart through, their great, rapid, high thud mingling a roar of the water. They often walk
rating on the continuous wood, conducting the, pushing that, rush another, unbend, become and
dangerous; and enough before the log on a driver support make the sluice, he springs to the.
He would be oppress among the wood in the sluice, or dashed among
the rocks in the water.

After
all the wood are thither alert, the chains of the defender are slipped, the rafts are broken
up, and an, windlasses and all, like the exponent.

Easily the ark are put through the sluicegate. Just, when this dam is ordinary, no friends
of the river-drivers go through in this boats-- a guiding practice, the; for rarely the bateaux have
travel under water, generally out of sight, to come up below the falls, and this than sometimes
have lives been lost in this foolhardy feat. The boom then surpass from three to six dams, and
sometimes takes four months to reach the cannery.

Occasionally the logarithm must go mob in the stream, and must wait
to the brine; if the can be supplied from a reservoir above, the ease
is wholly remedied.

In another spring
of 1880, a jam occurred at Mexico in ME. The logs were piled forty flatfoot above the serious h2o
and covered an coverage of area as vast as these dull village.

More floating jam attracted boulevardier from all parts of the country until the spring freshets
of the next twelvemonth could supply the stream with liquid large to unaffixed
them and bull them on their property--.----- at the steady time, July,
1880, the jam is however once. I see the driving and sluicing as i have
described it think, in Whitethorn, 1880.

It was very interesting.-- S. Eubacteria.

Fullerene.
S.

When the mood took her she danced and her victims danced behind her, a grotesque ballet, laughing
and clapping their hands, as though their cruel sufferings were, after all, a good joke.  Neither
they nor the audience seemed to be aware that she could not dance at all, and that she was
not even beautiful.

It was an old stunt, disguised with an insolent carelessness.  The producers had surely grinned
to themselves over it.  "We know what the public likes.  Rubbish, and the older the better.
Give it 'em."  She even made her familiar entry between the curtains at the back of the stage,
standing in the favourite attitude of simple, triumphant expectation, and smiling with that
rather foolish friendliness that until now had never shaken her audiences from their frigidity.
To them she had always been a spectacle, a strange vital thing with a lurid past and a dubious
future, shocking and stimulating.  They would never have admitted that they liked her.  But
tonight they gave her a sort of ashamed welcome.  Perhaps it was the dress she wore--the exaggerated
peg-top trousers and bonnet of a conventional Quartier Latin which made her look frank and
boyish.  Perhaps it was something more subtle. Stonehouse himself felt it.  But then, he knew.
He saw her as God saw her.  If there was a God He certainly had His amusing moments.

But he found himself clapping her with the rest, and that made him angry and afraid.  It seemed
that he could not control his actions any more than his thoughts.  The whole business had got
an unnatural hold over him.  He half got up to go, and then realized that he was trying to escape.

It was jolly music too.  That at any rate her producers had toiled at with some zeal.  Incredibly
stupid and artless and jolly.  Anyone could have danced to it.  And she was a gutter-urchin,
flinging herself about in the sheer joy of life (with death capering at her heels).  He watched
her, leaning forward, waiting for some sign, the faltering gesture, a twitching grimace of
realization.  Or was it possible that she was too empty-hearted to feel even her own tragedy,
too shallow to suffer, too stupid to foresee?  At least he knew with certainty that in that
heated, exhausted atmosphere pain had set in.

He became aware that the sweat of it was on his own face--that he himself was labouring under
an intolerable physical burden.  He knew too much.  (If God had His amusing moments he had
also to suffer, unless, as Mr. Ricardo had judged, he was a devil.)  She was facing what every
man and woman in that theatre would have to face sooner or later.  How?  She at any rate danced
as though there were nothing in the world but life.  With each act her gestures, her very dress
became the clearer expression of an insatiable, uncurbed lust of living.  At the end, the orchestra,
as though it could not help itself, broke into the old doggerel tune that had helped to make
her famous:

"I'm Gyp Labelle."

She waltzed and somersaulted round the stage, and as the curtain fell she stood before the
footlights, panting, her thin arms raised triumphantly.  He could see the tortured pulse leaping
in her throat. He thought he read her lips as they moved in a voiceless exclamation:

"Quand meme--quand meme."

The audience melted away indifferently.  They, at any rate, did not know what they had seen.

And the next day he had another little note from her, written in a great sprawling hand.  She
had made all her arrangements, and she thought she had better reserve rooms in his hospital
in about six weeks' time for about a month.  After that, no doubt, she would require less accommodation.

A silly, fatuous effort, in execrable taste.

V

1

Robert Stonehouse took a second leave that he could not afford and went back to the grey cottage
on the moors, and tramped the hills in haunted solitude.  The spring ran beside him, a crude,
bitter, young spring, gazing into the future with an earnest, passionate face, full of arrogance
and hope, and self-distrust.  His own frustrated youth rose in him like a painful sap.  He
was much younger than the Robert Stonehouse who, proud in his mature strength, had dragged
an exhausted, secretively smiling Cosgrave on his relentless pursuit--young and insecure, with
odd nameless rushes of emotion and desire and grief that had had no part in his ordered life.

The hills had changed too.  They had been the background to his exploits.  They had become
brooding, mysterious partners whose purpose with him he had not fathomed.  The things that
ran across his path, the quaint furry hares and scurrying pheasants had ceased to be objects
on which he could vent his strength and cunning.  They were live things, deeply, secretly related
to him and to a dying, very infamous woman, and his levelled gun sank time after time under
the pressure of an inexplicable pity.  He had stood resolutely aloof from life, and now it
was dragging him down into its warmth with invisible, resistless hands. Its values, which he
had learnt to judge coldly and dispassionately, weighing one against another, were shifting
like sand.  He seemed to stand, naked and alone, in a changing, terrifying world.

In those days the papers in their frivolous columns, were full of Gyp Labelle.  Her press-agent
was working frenziedly.  It seemed that she had quarrelled with her manager, torn her contract
into shreds, and slapped his face.  There were gay doings nightly at the Kensington house--orgies.
One paper hinted at a certain South African millionaire.

A last fling--the reckless gesture of a worthless panic-stricken soul, without dignity.

Or perhaps she had found that his diagnosis had been a mistake.  Or she would not believe the
truth.  Or she was drugging herself into forgetfulness.  Perhaps she might even have the courage
to make an end before the time came when forgetfulness would be impossible.

He returned to town, drawn by an obsession of uncertainty.  He found that she had arrived at
her rooms in the hospital with the shrivelled old woman and the macaw and a gramophone.

She had signed the register as Marie Dubois.

"It is my real name," she explained, "but you couldn't have a good time with a name like that--voyons!
Only one 'usband and 'eaps of babies."

She was much nearer the end than he had supposed possible.  The last month had to be paid for.
She lay very still under the gorgeous quilt which she had brought with her, and her hand, which
she had stretched out to him in friendly welcome, was like the claw of a bird.  "Everyone 'ere
promise not to tell," she said.  "I'm just Marie Dubois.  Even ze undertaker--'e must not know.
You put on ze stone: 'Marie Dubois, ze beloved daughter of Georges and Marianne Dubois, rag-pickers
of Paris.' That will be a last leetle joke, hein?"

"It's as you wish," he said coldly.

He forced back the natural questions that came to him.  He had a disordered conviction that
he was fighting her for his sanity, for the very ground on which he had built his life, and
that he dared not yield by so much as a kindly word.  He did what lay in his power for her
with a heart shut and barred.

She brought a little of her world and her whole outlook with her.  On the last day that she
was able to be up she dressed herself in a gay mandarin's coat with a Chinese woman's trousers,
and tried to do her dance for the benefit of a shocked and fascinated matron.  Every morning
she wore a new cap to set off the deepening shadow of dissolution.

By the open fire the old woman embroidered ceaselessly.

"She is making--'ow you call it?--my shroud.  You see--with ze blue ribbons.  Blue--that's
my colour--my lucky colour.  As soon as I could speak I ask for blue ribbons in my pinafore."

"I should have thought your mind might be better occupied now," he retorted with brutal commonplaceness.

She winked at him.

"Oh, but I 'ave 'ad my leetle talk with Monsieur le Cure.  'E and I are ze best of friends,
though I never met 'im before.  'E understand about ze blue ribbons.  But Monsieur Robert is
too clever."

"It seems so," he said scornfully.

She questioned him from out of the thickening cloud of morphia.  "You don't believe in God?"
And then as he shook his head she smiled sleepily.  "Well, it is still possible 'e exist, Monsieur--Monsieur
le docteur."

She lay quiet so that he thought she had fallen asleep, but the next moment her eyes had opened,
widening on him with a startling wakefulness.  It was as though her whole personality had leapt
to arms, and bursting through the narcotic, stood free with a gay and laughing gesture.  "As
to God--I don't know about 'im, but I exist--I go on. You bet your 'at on that, my friend.
I don't know where I go--but I go somewhere.  And I dance.  And if St. Peter sit at ze golden
gates, like they say in ze fairybook, I say to 'im: ''Ave you ever seen ze Gyp Galop?' And
then I dance for 'im and ze angels play for me"--she nodded wickedly--"not 'ymn tunes."

She was serious.  She meant it.  If she survived she survived as what she was or not at all.
And looking down on her wasted, tortured body, Stonehouse had a momentary but extraordinarily
vivid conviction that what she had said was true.  She would persist.  Whatever else happened,
Gyp Labelle would go on having a good time.  She could not be extinguished.  There was in her
some virtue altogether apart from the body--a blazing vitality, an unquenchable, burning spirit.

He felt his hatred of her wither before it.

"And 'e say: 'You dance ver' bad, Gyp, but you make me laugh.  You go on and dance to ze others.'
For 'e know who I am.  My poor parents they make ze mistake.  They think: ''Ere is such a ver'
nice, good little bebe, and so they call me after my Maman, who is ver' nice and good too,
and who love me ver' much--Marie--Marie Dubois."

She turned her head towards the old woman bending lower and lower over her fine work, and,
smiling at her, fell asleep.

He returned, one night, to the hospital in the hope of being able to work in the laboratory,
and instead, coming to her room, he went in. The action was so unpremeditated and unmotivated
that he had closed the door before he knew what he had done.  But the excuse he framed in his
confusion was never uttered, for he had the right to appear dumbfounded.  She sat, propped
up like a painted wraith against a pile of gorgeous cushions, and all about her was scattered
a barbarous loot of rings and bracelets, of strings of pearls, of unset stones, diamonds and
emeralds, heaped carelessly on the table at her side, and twinkling like little malevolent
eyes out of the creases of her coverlet.

The old woman wrote toilingly on a slip of paper.  "Sh!  This is ver' solemn.  I could not
sleep, and so I make my testament."  She put her finger to her lips as though her whisper were
only a part of a playful mystery and beckoned him, and he went towards her, reluctant, yet
unresisting like a man hypnotized.  He had a childish longing to touch all that colour, to
take up great handfuls of it and feel its warmth and let it drip through his fingers.  The
death that stared out of her painted face, the silence and grim austerity of her surroundings
made that display of magnificence a fantastic parable.  The stones were the life that was going
from her.  She picked up each one in turn and caressed it, and held it to the light, remembering
who knew what escapade, what splendid, reckless days, what tragedy.  And yet there was no regret
and surely no remorse in her farewell of them.

"Ma Vieille--she make a list of all.  They will be sold--for ze children of Paris--ze gamins--as
I was--for a good time."  She held out her hand: "C'est joli, n'est ce pas?"

He looked unwillingly.  It was a black opal, and as she moved it it seemed to come to life,
and a distant resentful fire gleamed out of its sullen depths.

"Yes.  But you oughtn't to have all--all this stuff about.  No one could be held responsible----"

"What does it matter?  If someone take it--someone 'ave it.  It won't worry me.  'Ere, I tell
you something--a story, hein, to amuse you? You remember our leetle dinner and 'ow I would
not tell about ze Grand Duke and ze black opal?  Well, I tell you now.  It don't matter any more."

"No.  You're doing yourself harm.  You ought to sleep."

"I don't want to--I can't.  It is 'orrible to lie awake in ze dark and----  And you, too, Monsieur
Robert, you don't feel you sleep much to-night, hein?"

"No."

"Alors--'ere we are--two poor fellows shipwrecked--we make a leetle feast together--a feast
of good stories.  You say you don't like me ver' much.  But that is ridicule now.  One only
'ates when one is afraid, and you aren't afraid any more of poor Gyp."

"Was I ever?" he demanded.

"A leetle--per'aps?  You think to yourself: 'If I love 'er----!' Bah, that is all finished.
Come, I tell you my funny story."

He had laughed.  He was incredulous of himself.  He sat on the edge of her bed listening to
her whisper, a tortured whisper which she made supremely funny--a mock-conspirator's whisper
which drew them close to one another in an outrageous intimacy.

"At any rate you had made a good enemy that time," he said.

She panted.

"Ah no--no.  'E 'ave a fine sense of humour, Monsieur ze Grand Duke. 'E laugh too.  'E say--'Gyp--you
are ze ver' devil 'erself!'  'Ere, but this ruby--I don't care much for rubies--but this one
'ave a real fine story."

And so one by one the stones were taken up and held a moment, some to be discarded with a name
or a forgetful shrug, and some to linger a while longer whilst she recalled their little ribald
histories.  And it seemed to Robert Stonehouse that gradually the room filled with invisible
personages who, as the jewels dropped from her waxen fingers into the gaping box, bowed to
her and took their leave.  And at last they were all gone but one.  He seemed to hear them,
their footsteps receding faintly along the corridors.

She held an unset pearl in her hand.

"This one 'ave a ver' nice leetle story.  A brigand give it me when 'e 'old up ze train between
Mexico City and ze coast.  A fine fellow--with a sombrero and a manner!"  (She looked past
Stonehouse, smiling, as though she too saw the shadow twirling its black moustache and staring
back at her with gallant admiration.)  "And brave too, nombre de Dios!  And 'e bow and say:
'One does not take ransom from Mademoiselle Labelle.  One pays tribute.'  And 'e give me this
to remember 'im by--as I give it you, Monsieur Robert."

He stood up sharply.

"No--I--I don't care for that kind of thing."

"For your wife, then!"

"I am not married."

"But one day per'aps?  You love someone, hein?"  (Had she wilfully forgotten?  She studied
his face with a wicked curiosity.  He could not answer her.)  "Give it 'er then--Monsieur Robert--pour
me faire plaisir."

"There is no one to give it to."

"But there was----"

He tried desperately to regain the old sarcastic inflection.

"No doubt it seems inevitable to you."

"Tell me about 'er.  Voyons, if you can't keep me alive, Monsieur mon docteur, you might at
least amuse me."

"There is nothing to tell.  I will give you something that will make you sleep."

"I do not want to sleep.  That is bad, ugly sleep that you give me.  So you quarrel.  What
you quarrel about, Monsieur Robert?  Another woman?"

The sheer, grotesque truth of it drove him to an ironical assent.

"As you say, another woman----"

"Oh, la la!  So there was once upon a time a ver' serious young man who forget to be quite
serious.  Voyons--you 'ave to tell me all now--just as I tell you."

He turned on her then.  In five brief, savage sentences he had told her of Frances and the
woman in the hospital.  And when he had done he read her face with its tolerant good-humour,
and the full enormity of it all burst over him like a flood of crude light.  He turned away
from her stammering:

"I've no business here--I've no business to be your doctor--or anyone's doctor.  I think I
must be going mad."

She shook her head.

"No--no--only too serious, mon pauvre jeune homme.  But I like your--your Francey.  I think
she and I be good friends some'ow.  She would see things 'ow I see them." 

The river-drivers are the men who travel of the logs to the beginning
with their journey till they are surrendered from the saw-mills.

The logging camps are disbanded, the loggers return to their homes, and the
river-operator alone are correct to begin their duties.  And then you give 'er my leetle pearl.  Say it's
from Gyp, who is sorry she made so much trouble.  Why not?  You think it make her sad?  It
is not for that I give it you.  It is to give you pleasure too."

He was labouring under an almost physical distress.  She was poking fun at him, at herself,
at death.  She was making him a partner of thieves and loose women.  And yet:

"It must not make you sad at all.  When you see it you laugh--just as you laugh when I dance
because I dance so ver' bad.  Look 'ere, I 'ave something that you give me too."  She dived
back into the box and brought out a shilling lying side by side with the pearl in the palm
of her open hand.  "You tell 'er--that was all poor Gyp was worth to you, Monsieur Robert."

He had taken it.  She tried to laugh out loud, triumphantly, the famous laugh.  And then grey
agony had her by the throat.  She turned her face from him to the wall.

He felt that the old woman had risen.  She was moving towards them.  He said quietly:

"At least I can relieve you."

She made a passionate, absolute gesture of refusal.  An astonished nurse had entered.  He gave
brief instructions.  He said good-night, not looking at the limp, quiet figure on the bed,
and went out.

He knew that he had seemed competent, unhurried and unmoved as befitted a man to whom death
was the most salient feature of life.

But he knew also that he had fled from her.

In the crowd that went with him that night were Francey Wilmot and Connie Edwards and Cosgrave
and all the people who had made up his youth.  There were little old women who were Christines,
and even James Stonehouse was there, tragically and hopefully in search of something that he
had never found.  Any moment he might turn his face towards his son, and it would not be hideous,
only perplexed and pitiful.

It was as though an ugly, monstrous mass had been smashed to fragments whose facets shone with
extraordinary, undreamed-of colours.

Not only the bodies of the people drifted with him, but their lives touched his on every side.
It became a sort of secret pressure.  They were neither great nor beautiful.  They were identical
with the people he had always seen on the streets and in the hospitals, sickly or grossly commonplace,
but he could no longer judge them as from a great distance.  He was down in the thick of them.
They concerned him--or he had no other concern.  He was part of their strangely wandering procession.
He looked into their separate faces and thought: "This man says 'I' to himself.  And one day
he will say: 'I am dying' (as Marie Dubois said it)."  And he recognized for the first time
something common to them all that was not commonplace--an heroic quality.  At least that stark
fact remained that at their birth sentence of death had been passed upon them all.  Before
each one of them lay a black adventure, and they went towards it, questioning or inarticulate,
not knowing why they should endure so much, but facing the utter loneliness of that final passage
with patience and great courage.

It was not ridiculous that they should demand their immortality, the least and worst of them.
Whether it was granted them or not, it was a just demand, and the answer to it more vital than
any other form of knowledge.  For it was conceivable that one day they would be too strong
and too proud to play the part of tragic buffoons in a senseless farce.

In the meantime men might well be pitiful with one another.

"What was it she had said?"

"Nothing that you've gone through is of any use if it hasn't taught you pity."

("Oh, Francey, Francey, if I had told you that Christine was dead would it have helped?  Would
you have had more patience with me?")

The quiet and emptiness of his own street restored him in some measure to his aloof scepticism.
But even then he knew there was a disruptive force secretly at work in him, tearing down stone
by stone his confidence and courage.  He was afraid of shadows.  A bowed figure crouched against
the railings of his house checked him as though a ghost had lain in wait for him.  He passed
it hurriedly, running up the stone steps.  The sound of a thin, clear voice calling him made
him turn again, his head thrown up in a sort of defiance.

"Monsieur--excuse--excuse--I wait 'ere so long.  They tell me you come back 'ere perhaps. 
But they don't know I 'ave come.  I creep out---- Monsieur she cannot sleep--she cannot sleep.
They don't do nothing. It is not right.  I cannot 'ave it--that she suffer so."

He came back down the steps.  He was conscious of having sighed deeply. He looked into the
shrivelled, up-turned face, and saw the tears that filled the furrows with a slow moving stream.
He had hardly noticed her before.  Now she hurt him.  A very little old woman.  He said briefly,
hiding a shaken voice:

"They do all they can.  I can do no more."

She reiterated with a peasant's obstinacy.

"I will not 'ave it--I will not--not 'ave it--I cannot bear it."

"Dr. Rutherford is there.  I tell you he can do all that can be done. I offered her an injection--she
would not have it."

"She pretend--all ze time she pretend.  Even before me, 'er mother, she pretend.  But I know."

"Her mother!"

He stepped back against the railings, freeing himself fretfully from the hand that clutched
his arm.

"If you are her mother she treats you strangely.  She treats you like a servant."

"Before others, Monsieur.  She is different--of different stuff.  We 'ave always understood.
If I am to be with 'er it must be as 'er servant.  That is our affair.  But you are not kind.
You let 'er suffer too much.  I will not 'ave it."

She drew herself up.  She almost menaced him.  He saw that she knew. As a physician he had
done what lay in his power, but as a human being he had failed utterly and deliberately.  Had
always failed.  And he was aware of an incredible fear of her.

"I will come now," he stammered.

He gave her such sleep that night that it seemed unlikely that she would ever wake again. 
He knew that he had exceeded the limits of mercy set down by his profession and that the nurse
had looked strangely at him.  But he was indifferent.  It was as though he, too, had been momentarily
released.

Nor did he leave her again until the morning, but watched over her, whilst on the other side
of the bed the old woman knelt, her face pressed against a still hand, a battered, sullen effigy
of grief.

3

From the beginning she had defied the regulations of the hospital, as she had defied the rules
of life, with an absolute success.  The inelastic, military system bent and stretched itself
beneath her good-humoured inability to believe that there could be any wilful opposition, to
her desires.  The macaw had been a case in point, the gramophone another.  After tea the old
woman set the instrument going for her, and when the authorities protested, ostensibly on behalf
of neighbouring patients, it transpired that the patients rather liked it than otherwise, and
there were regular concerts, with the macaw shrieking its occasional appreciation.

She inquired interestedly into her neighbours.  She seemed less concerned with their complaints
than with their ages, their appearance, and the time when they would return to the outside
world.  With a young man on her right hand she became intimate. On the head-ad about thirty river-drivers
take up their position to the course of a boom. The guard is always much larger than the boom of
logs, so that the shape of the boom may be changed for together or
quick waters.

At the head of each boom is a raft which supports two direct windlasses,
each torchlights of which works the anchor.

The guard-logs are chained wide at the ends about two feet apart. To change position or shape,
ten of the spring into the work or bateau; one takes a paddle at
the bow; eight to go oars; and one, at the foreman, holds the anchor
well.

They row with large strokes toward the spot where the anchor is to be dropped, an cable all this
time of from the windlass. "let take!" shouts the gay.
 Promise you won't tell?"

They promised.

She was almost voiceless now.  That she suffered hideously, Stonehouse knew, but not from her.
He believed--in the turmoil of his mind he almost hoped--that when she was alone she broke
down, but before them all she bore herself with an unflagging gallantry.  It was that gallantry
of hers that dogged him, that would not let him rest or forget.  It demanded of him something
that he could not, and dared not, yield.

And she was pitifully alone.  The woman in the hospital had not been more forsaken by her world.
As to Gyp Labelle she went her way, and the gossip columns cautiously recorded the more startling
items of that progress.  It was as though some clever hand were building up a fantastic figure
that should pass at last into the mists of legend.

Men laughed together over her.

"What poor devil of a millionaire has the woman hobbled now?"

It was the matron who showed Stonehouse an illustrated paper which produced her full-length
portrait.  She sat on the edge of her absurd fountain and her hand was raised in a laughing
gesture of farewell. Over the top was written: "Gyp off to Pastures new," and underneath a
message which all the daily papers were to reproduce.

"I want this way to thank all the friends who have been so very kind to me.  We have had good
times together.  I miss you very much.  I am going to find new friends now, but one day, I
think, I dance for you again.  I love you all.  I kiss my hands to you.  Au revoir, Gyp."

It was her vanity, that insatiable desire to figure impudently and triumphantly in the public
eye.  He brought the paper to her.  But at the moment she was busy tapping feebly on the wall.
She winked at him.

"Sh!  I tell 'im I go to-day.  I make an appointment--next week--ze Carlton Grill--seven o'clock--'e
'ave to wait a long time, ze poor young man.  There, it is finished."

He showed her the picture without comment.  He had to hold it for her--hold it very close--for
she had exhausted herself with that last gesture of bravado.  And then, as she smiled, a protest
born of gathering distress and doubt burst from him.

"Why do you allow--this--hideous, impossible pretence?"

He could feel the old woman turn towards him like a wild beast preparing to spring.  But she
herself lay still, with closed eyes.  He had to bend down to catch the remote suffering whisper.

"C'est vrai.  We 'ave--such good times.  And they come 'ere--all those kind people--who 'ave
laughed so much--and bring flowers--and pretend it is not true.  And they won't believe--and
when they see it they won't believe--they won't dare----"  She tried to speak more clearly,
clinging to his hand for the first time, whilst a sweat of agony broke out upon her face and
made ghastly channels through its paint and powder.  "Vous voyez--for them--I am--ze good times.
They come to me--for good times.  When they are too sad--when things too 'ard for them and
they cannot believe any more--that ze good times come again--they think of me.  'Voyons, la
Gyp, she 'ave a good time always--she dance at 'er own funeral!'  But if they see me 'ere--like
this--they go away--and think in their 'earts: 'Grand Dieu, c'est comme ca avec nous tous--avec
nous tous,' and they not laugh with me--any more."

Her hand let go its hold--suddenly.

They sent for him that night.  Haemorrhage had set in.  There was a light burning by her bedside,
for she had complained of the darkness. She wore a lace cap trimmed with blue ribbons, but
she had not had strength to paint her lips and cheeks again, and the old woman's efforts had
ended pitifully.  She had grown very small in the last few hours, and with her thin, daubed
face and blood-stained lips, she looked like a sorrowful travesty of the little circus clown
who had ridden the fat pony and shouted "Oh la--la!" and blown kisses to the people.

She smiled vaguely in Stonehouse's direction, but she was only half conscious.  Her hand strayed
over the gorgeous quilt, stroking it with a kind of simple pleasure.

(She was like that, too, he thought--a dash of gay, unashamed colour in the sad scheme of things.)

Towards midnight she motioned to him and whispered something that he could not understand.
But the old woman rose heavily from her knees and went over to the gramophone, thrusting aside
with savage resolution the nurse who tried to intercept her.  Stonehouse himself made an involuntary
gesture.

"Why not?" he said.  "Let her alone."

He stood close to her and waited.  He felt that some part of him was dying with her, that he
stood with her before a black partition which was thinning slowly, and that presently they
would both know whatever lay beyond.

The macaw fidgeted on its golden perch, craning towards the light and blinking uneasily as
though a strange thing had come into the room. The needle scratched under a shaking hand.

  "I'm Gyp Labelle;
  Come dance with me. . ."

He bent over her so that his face almost touched hers.

"I'm sorry--I'm sorry, Gyp."

She turned her head a little, her lips moving.  It was evident that she had not really heard.
But he knew that she had never borne him malice.

And then suddenly it was over.  He had broken through.  Beyond were understanding and peace
and strange and difficult tears.  He loved her, as beneath the fret and heat of passion Cosgrave
and all those others had loved her, for what she sincerely was and for the brave, gay thing
she had to give.  He loved her more simply still as in rare moments of their lives men love
one another, saying: "This is my brother--this is my sister."  From his lonely arrogance his
spirit flung itself down, grieving, beside her mysterious, incalculable good.

He could hear the jolly bang-bang of the drum and the whoop of a trumpet.  He could see her
catherine-wheeling round the stage, and the man with the bloated face and tragic, intelligent eyes.

"Life itself, my dear fellow, life itself."

And she was dead.

EPILOGUE

For a moment they stared at one another.  He did not at once recognize Connie Edwards, in the
puritanical serge frock and with her air of rather conscious sobriety, and he himself stood
in the shadow.  He thought:

"She's wondering if I'm a tramp."  He felt like one, broken and shabby.

"Dr. Wilmot?" he muttered.

She leant closer.

"Oh, hallo--Robert."  She corrected herself severely, and held the door wide open.  "Dr. Stonehouse--to
be sure.  Francey's upstairs."

She led the way.  It was almost as though she had been expecting him. At any rate, she was
not surprised at all.  But half-way up the stairs she glanced back over her shoulder.

"I don't usually open the door.  I'm her secretary.  And a damn good one too.  Rather a jest,
eh, what?"

"Rather," he said.

And it was really the same room--a fire burning and the faun dancing in the midst of its moving
shadows.  There was a faint, warm scent of cigarette smoke and a solemn pile of books beside
her deep chair.  It wouldn't be like Francey to rest under her laurels.

She held both his hands in hers.  She wore a loose, golden-brown wrapper such as she had always
worn when she had been working hard. She had changed very little and a great deal.  If something
of the whimsical mysteriousness of her youth had faded she had broadened and deepened into
a woman warm and generous as the earth.  Her thick hair swept back from her face with the old
wind-blown look, and her eyes were candid and steadfast as they had ever been.  But some sort
of mist had been brushed away from them so that they saw more clearly and profoundly.  He thought:
"She has seen a great many people suffer.  She doesn't go away so often into herself."

He had tried hard, over and over again, to imagine their meeting, but he had never imagined
that it would be so simple or that she would say to him, as though the eight years had not
happened:

"Why didn't you tell me about Christine, Robert?"

He said:

"It wouldn't have made any difference."

"I've been waiting for you to tell me."

He tried to smile.

"You don't know how difficult it has been to come.  I've been prowling past--night after night--trying
to think what you'd say to me, if I turned up."

"You might have known."

"I didn't--I don't know even now."

She had made him sit down by the fire and she sat opposite him, bending towards him, with her
slim, beautiful hands to the blaze.  He felt that she knew, for all the outward signs of his
prosperity, that he was destitute.  He felt that his real self with which she had always been
so much concerned had been stripped naked, and that she was trying to warm and console him.
She was wrapping him round with that unchanged tenderness.

"It's--it's the old room!" he said.

But his enmity was dead.  He was at peace with it.  He had been initiated.  He had heard, very
faintly it is true, but loud enough to understand, the music to which the faun danced.  He
was not the outsider any more.

"I wanted it to be the same."

"And the house----"

"I took it as soon as I could get it.  I made up my mind to live here, whatever it cost.  You
see, I was quite sure that you would go past one of these days to have a look at it, and that
you would say to yourself: 'Why, there's Francey, after all!  I'll go in----'"

But they both drew back instinctively.  He blundered into a hurried question.  The Gang?  What
had happened to them all?  It seemed that Gertie still lived, defying medical opinion and apparently
feeding her starved spirit on the treasures of the Vatican.  Howard, who had become a very
bad artist and lived on selling copies of the masterpieces to tourists, looked after her.

"But they're not married," Francey said.  "Just friends."

He said humbly:

"Well, he's been awfully decent to her."

As to the rest, no one knew what had become of them.

"And you've done splendidly, Robert, better than any of us."

"I've been a failure," he answered, "a rotten failure!"

She accepted the statement gravely, without protest, and that sincerity was like a skilled
hand on a wound.  It brought comfort where a fumbling kindness would have been unendurable.
It made him strangely, deeply happy to know that she would see too that he had failed.  "I've
never had pity on anyone--not even myself--I've learnt nothing that matters."

For a while they sat silent, looking into the fire, like people who are waiting and preparing
themselves for some great event.  And presently, without moving, in an undertone he began to
tell her about the Marie Dubois who had died, and how he had seen her long ago at the Circus,
his first and only circus.  He told her about the Circus itself.  He did not choose his words,
but stammered and fumbled and jumped from one thing to another.  He opened his heart and took
out whatever he found there, and showed it to her very humbly, just as it was.  It seemed certain
and imperative that after a little while they should both see the pattern of it all.  He told
her about his love for his dead mother, and how his father had died and had come back, haunting
him in his sleep.

Then he remembered something he had never thought of before--how he had looked up at the window
of the room where his father was lying dead, and had wanted to run--run fast.

"But I think I've lived in that dark house all my life," he said, "and I've gone about in it,
blustering and swaggering and being hard and strong because I was so desperately afraid--of
life, of caring too much, of failing.  And now--I've come out." 

When the boom reaches the dam which connects the lake or river of the
m off the sluice of which the logs must pass, the chain of guard-logs
is fastened, and anchored with lines along both sides in the run,
and the rafts are drawn through to one side and detached to trees.
  She was the warm, good spirit of
the life to which he had become reconciled.  They had belonged to one another from the beginning.
His fear had stood between them.  But she had gone on loving him, steadfastly, because nothing
else was possible to her.

"Francey--do you remember--that time we fought one another--over an idiotic stick?  I was such
a young rotter--I wouldn't own up--that you were stronger than I was."

She took his wet hands and kissed them.  It was as though she had said aloud, smiling to herself:

"It's all right now, anyhow, you odd, sad little boy."