SUPERSEDED

                            BY MAY SINCLAIR

                     Author of "The Divine Fire"

                                  1906

PUBLISHERS' NOTE

Miss Sinclair has expressed a desire to have this book republished in America, because she
considers it the best of her work previous to "The Divine Fire." It originally appeared with
another work in a volume entitled "Two Sides of a Question," a small imported edition of which
is now exhausted.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

     I. PROLOGUE.--MISS QUINCEY STOPS THE WAY
    II. HOUSEHOLD GODS
   III. INAUGURAL ADDRESSES
    IV. BASTIAN CAUTLEY, M.D.
     V. HEALERS AND REGENERATORS
    VI. SPRING FASHIONS
   VII. UNDER A BLUE MOON
  VIII. A PAINFUL MISUNDERSTANDING
    IX. THROUGH THE STETHOSCOPE
     X. MISS QUINCEY STANDS BACK
    XI. DR. CAUTLEY SENDS IN HIS BILL
   XII. EPILOGUE.--THE MAN AND THE WOMAN

SUPERSEDED

CHAPTER I

Prologue.--Miss Quincey Stops the Way

"Stand back, Miss Quincey, if you please."

The school was filing out along the main corridor of St. Sidwell's. It came with a tramp and
a rustle and a hiss and a tramp, urged to a trot by the excited teachers. The First Division
first, half-woman, carrying itself smoothly, with a swish of its long skirts, with a blush,
a dreamy intellectual smile, or a steadfast impenetrable air, as it happened to be more or
less conscious of the presence of the Head. Then the Second Division, light-hearted, irrepressible,
making a noise with its feet, loose hair flapping, pig-tails flopping to the beat of its march.
Then the straggling, diminishing lines of the Third, a froth of white pinafores, a confusion
of legs, black or tan, staggering, shifting, shuffling in a frantic effort to keep time.

On it came in a waving stream; a stream that flickered with innumerable eyes, a stream that
rippled with the wind of its own flowing, that flushed and paled and brightened as some flower-face
was tossed upwards, or some crest, flame-coloured or golden, flung back the light. A stream
that was one in its rhythm and in the sex that was its soul, obscurely or luminously feminine;
it might have been a single living thing that throbbed and undulated, as girl after girl gave
out the radiance and pulsation of her youth. The effect was overpowering; your senses judged
St. Sidwell's by these brilliant types that gave life and colour to the stream. The rest were
nowhere.

So at least it seemed to Miss Cursiter, the Head. That tall, lean, iron-grey Dignity stood
at the cross junction of two corridors, talking to Miss Rhoda Vivian, the new Classical Mistress.
And while she talked she watched her girls as a general watches his columns wheeling into action.
A dangerous spot that meeting of the corridors. There the procession doubles the corner at
a swinging curve, and there, time it as she would, the little arithmetic teacher was doomed
to fall foul of the procession. Daily Miss Quincey thought to dodge the line; daily it caught
her at the disastrous corner. Then Miss Quincey, desperate under the eye of the Head, would
try to rush the thing, with ridiculous results. And Fate or the Order of the day contrived
that Miss Cursiter should always be there to witness her confusion. Nothing escaped Miss Cursiter;
if her face grew tender for the young girls and the eight-year-olds, at the sight of Miss Quincey
it stiffened into tolerance, cynically braced to bear. Miss Cursiter had an eye for magnificence
of effect, and the unseemly impact of Miss Quincey was apt to throw the lines into disorder,
demoralising the younger units and ruining the spectacle as a whole. To-day it made the new
Classical Mistress smile, and somehow that smile annoyed Miss Cursiter.

She, Miss Quincey, was a little dry, brown woman, with a soft pinched mouth, and a dejected
nose. So small and insignificant was she that she might have crept along for ever unnoticed
but for her punctuality in obstruction. As St. Sidwell's prided itself on the brilliance and
efficiency of its staff, the wonder was how Miss Quincey came to be there, but there she had
been for five-and-twenty years. She seemed to have stiffened into her place. Five-and-twenty
years ago she had been arithmetic teacher, vaguely attached to the Second Division, and she
was arithmetic teacher still. Miss Quincey was going on for fifty; she had out-lived the old
Head, and now she was the oldest teacher there, twice as old as Miss Vivian, the new Classical
Mistress, older, far older than Miss Cursiter. She had found her way into St. Sidwell's, not
because she was brilliant or efficient, but because her younger sister Louisa already held
an important post there.

Louisa was brilliant and efficient enough for anybody, so brilliant and so efficient that the
glory of it rested on her family. And when she married the Greek master and went away Juliana
stayed on as a matter of course, wearing a second-hand aureole of scholarship and supporting
a tradition.

She stayed on and taught arithmetic for one thing. And when she was not teaching arithmetic,
she was giving little dictations, setting little themes, controlling some fifty young and very
free translators of Le Philosophe sous les Toils. Miss Quincey had a passion for figures and
for everything that could be expressed in figures. Not a pure passion, nothing to do with the
higher mathematics, which is the love of the soul, but an affection sadly alloyed with baser
matter, with rods and perches, firkins and hogsheads, and articles out of the grocer's shop.

Among these objects Miss Quincey's imagination ran voluptuous riot. But upon such things as
history or poetry she had a somewhat blighting influence. The flowers in the school Anthology
withered under her fingers, and the flesh and blood of heroes crumbled into the dust of dates.
As for the philosopher under the roofs, who he was, and what was his philosophy, and how he
ever came to be under the roofs at all, nobody in St. Sidwell's ever knew or ever cared to
know; Miss Quincey had made him eternally uninteresting. Yet Miss Quincey's strength was in
her limitations. It was the strength of unreasoning but undying conviction. Nothing could shake
her belief in the supreme importance of arithmetic and the majesty of its elementary rules.
Pale and persistent and intolerably meek, she hammered hard facts into the brain with a sort
of muffled stroke, hammered till the hardest stuck by reason of their hardness, for she was
a teacher of the old school. Thus in her own way she made her mark. Among the other cyphers,
the irrelevant and insignificant figure of Miss Quincey was indelibly engraved on many an immortal
soul. There was a curious persistency about Miss Quincey.

Miss Quincey was not exactly popular. The younger teachers pronounced her cut and dried; for
dryness, conscientiously acquired, passed for her natural condition. Nobody knew that it cost
her much effort and industry to be so stiff and starched; that the starch had to be put on
fresh every morning; that it was quite a business getting up her limp little personality for
the day. In five-and-twenty years, owing to an incurable malady of shyness, she had never made
friends with any of her pupils.

Her one exception proved her rule. Miss Quincey seemed to have gone out of her way to attract
that odious little Laura Lazarus, who was known at St. Sidwell's as the Mad Hatter. At fourteen,
being still incapable of adding two and two together, the Mad Hatter had been told off into
an idiot's class by herself for arithmetic; and Miss Quincey, because she was so meek and patient
and persistent, was told off to teach her. The child, a queer, ugly little pariah, half-Jew,
half-Cockney, held all other girls in abhorrence, and was avoided by them with an equal loathing.
She seemed to have attached herself to the unpopular teacher out of sheer perversity and malignant
contempt of public opinion. Abandoned in their corner, with their heads bent together over
the sums, the two outsiders clung to each other in a common misery and isolation.

Miss Quincey was well aware that she was of no account at St. Sidwell's. She supposed that
it was because she had never taken her degree. To be sure she had never tried to take it; but
it was by no means certain that she could have taken it if she had tried. She was not clever;
Louisa had carried off all the brains and the honours of the family. It had been considered
unnecessary for Juliana to develop an individuality of her own; enough for her that she belonged
to Louisa, and was known as Louisa's sister. Louisa's sister was a part of Louisa; Louisa was
a part of St. Sidwell's College, Regent's Park; and St. Sidwell's College, Regent's Park, was
a part--no, St. Sidwell's was the whole; it was the glorious world. Miss Quincey had never
seen, or even desired to see any other. That college was to her a place of exquisite order
and light. Light that was filtered through the high tilted windows, and reflected from a prevailing
background of green tiles and honey-white pine, from countless rows of shining desks and from
hundreds of young faces. Light, the light of ideas, that streamed from the platform in the
great hall where three times in the year Miss Cursiter gave her address to the students and
teachers of St. Sidwell's.

Now Miss Cursiter was a pioneer at war with the past, a woman of vast ambitions, a woman with
a system and an end; and she chose her instruments finely, toiling early and late to increase
their brilliance and efficiency. She was new to St. Sidwell's, and would have liked to make
a clean sweep of the old staff and to fill their places with women like Rhoda Vivian, young
and magnificent and strong. As it was, she had been weeding them out gradually, as opportunity
arose; and the new staff, modern to its finger-tips, was all but complete and perfect now.
Only Miss Quincey remained. St. Sidwell's in the weeding time had not been a bed of roses for
Miss Cursiter, and Miss Quincey, blameless but incompetent, was a thorn in her side, a thorn
that stuck. Impossible to remove Miss Quincey quickly, she was so very blameless and she worked
so hard.

She worked from nine till one in the morning, from two-thirty till four-thirty in the afternoon,
and from six-thirty in the evening till any hour in the night. She worked with the desperate
zeal of the superseded who knows that she holds her post on sufferance, the terrified tenacity
of the middle-aged who feels behind her the swift-footed rivalry of youth. And the more she
worked the more she annoyed Miss Cursiter.

So now, above all the tramping and shuffling and hissing, you heard the self-restrained and
slightly metallic utterance of the Head.

"Stand back, Miss Quincey, if you please."

And Miss Quincey stood back, flattening herself against the wall, and the procession passed
her by, rosy, resonant, exulting, a triumph of life.

CHAPTER II

Household Gods

Punctually at four-thirty Miss Quincey vanished from the light of St. Sidwell's, Regent's Park,
into the obscurity of Camden Town. Camden Town is full of little houses standing back in side
streets, houses with porticoed front doors monstrously disproportioned to their size. Nobody
ever knocks at those front doors; nobody ever passes down those side streets if they can possibly
help it. The houses are all exactly alike; they melt and merge into each other in dingy perspective,
each with its slag-bordered six foot of garden uttering a faint suburban protest against the
advances of the pavement. Miss Quincey lived in half of one of them (number ninety, Camden
Street North) with her old aunt Mrs. Moon and their old servant Martha. She had lived there
five-and-twenty years, ever since the death of her uncle.

Tollington Moon had been what his family called unfortunate; that is to say, he had mislaid
the greater portion of his wife's money and the whole of Juliana's and Louisa's; he, poor fellow,
had none of his own to lose. Uncle Tollington, being the only male representative of the family,
had been appointed to drive the family coach. He was a genial good-natured fellow and he cheerfully
agreed, declaring that there was nothing in the world he liked better than driving; though
indeed he had had but little practice in the art. So they started with a splendid flourishing
of whips and blowing of horns; Tollington driving at a furious break-neck pace in a manner
highly diverting and exhilarating to the ladies inside. The girls (they were girls in those
days) sat tight and felt no fear, while Mrs. Moon, with her teeth shaking, explained to them
the advantages of having so expert a driver on the box seat. Of course there came the inevitable
smash at the corner. The three climbed out of that coach more dead than alive; but they uttered
no complaints; they had had their fun; and in accidents of this kind the poor driver generally
gets the worst of it.

Mrs. Moon at any rate found consolation in disaster by steadily ignoring its most humiliating
features. Secure in the new majesty of her widowhood, she faced her nieces with an unflinching
air and demanded of them eternal belief in the wisdom and rectitude of their uncle Tollington.
She hoped that they would never forget him, never forget what he had to bear, never forget
all he had done for them. Her attitude reduced Juliana to tears; in Louisa it roused the instinct
of revolt, and Louisa was for separating from Mrs. Moon. It was then, in her first difference
from Louisa, that Miss Quincey's tender and foolish little face acquired its strangely persistent
air. Hitherto the elder had served the younger; now she took her stand. She said, "Whatever
we do, we must keep together"; and she professed her willingness to believe in her uncle Tollington
and remember him for ever.

To this Louisa, who prided herself on speaking the truth or at any rate her mind, replied that
she wasn't likely to forget him in a hurry; that her uncle Tollington had ruined her life,
and she did not want to be reminded of him any more than she could help. Moreover, she found
her aunt Moon's society depressing. She meant to get on and be independent; and she advised
Juliana to do the same.

Juliana did not press the point, for it was a delicate one, seeing that Louisa was earning
a hundred and twenty pounds a year and she but eighty. So she added her eighty pounds to her
aunt's eighty and went to live with her in Camden Street North, while Louisa shrugged her shoulders
and carried herself and her salary elsewhere.

There was very little room for Mrs. Moon and Juliana at number ninety. The poor souls had crowded
themselves out with relics of their past, a pathetic salvage, dragged hap-hazard from the wreck
in the first frenzy of preservation. Dreadful things in marble and gilt and in papier-maché
inlaid with mother-o'-pearl, rickety work tables with pouches underneath them, banner-screens
in silk and footstools in Berlin wool-work fought with each other and with Juliana for standing-room.
For Juliana, with her genius for collision, was always knocking up against them, always getting
in their way. In return, Juliana's place at an oblique angle of the fireside was disputed by
a truculent cabinet with bandy legs. There was a never-ending quarrel between Juliana and that
piece of furniture, in which Mrs. Moon took the part of the furniture. Her own world had shrunk
to a square yard between the window and the fire. There she sat and dreamed among her household
gods, smiling now and then under the spell of the dream, or watched her companion with critical
disapproval. She had accepted Juliana's devotion as a proper sacrifice to the gods; but for
Juliana, or Louisa for the matter of that, she seemed to have but little affection. If anything
Louisa was her favourite. Louisa was better company, to begin with; and Louisa, with her cleverness
and her salary and her general air of indifference and prosperity, raised no questions. Besides,
Louisa was married.

But Juliana, toiling from morning till night for her eighty pounds a year; Juliana, painful
and persistent, growing into middle-age without a hope, Juliana was an incarnate reproach,
a perpetual monument to the folly of Tollington Moon. Juliana disturbed her dream.

But nobody else disturbed it, for nobody ever came to their half of the house in Camden Street
North. Louisa used to come and go in a brief perfunctory manner; but Louisa had married the
Greek professor and gone away for good, and her friends at St. Sidwell's were not likely to
waste their time in cultivating Juliana and Mrs. Moon. The thing had been tried by one or two
of the younger teachers who went in for all-round self-development and were getting up the
minor virtues. But they had met with no encouragement and they had ceased to come. Then nobody
came; not even the doctor or the clergyman. The two ladies were of one mind on that point;
it was convenient for them to ignore their trifling ailments, spiritual or bodily. And as soon
as they saw that the world renounced them they adopted a lofty tone and said to each other
that they had renounced the world. For they were proud, Mrs. Moon especially so. Tollington
Moon had married slightly, ever so slightly beneath him, the Moons again marking a faint descent
from the standing of the Quinceys. But the old lady had completely identified herself, not
only with the Moons, but with the higher branch, which she always spoke of as "my family."
In fact she had worn her connection with the Quinceys as a feather in her cap so long that
the feather had grown, as it were, into an entire bird of paradise. And once a bird of paradise,
always a bird of paradise, though it had turned on the world a somewhat dilapidated tail.

So the two lived on together; so they had always lived. Mrs. Moon was an old woman before she
was five-and-fifty; and before she was five-and-twenty Juliana's youth had withered away in
the sour and sordid atmosphere born of perishing gentility and acrid personal remark. And their
household gods looked down on them, miniatures and silhouettes of Moons and Quinceys, calm
and somewhat contemptuous presences. From the post of honour above the mantelshelf, Tollington,
attired as an Early Victorian dandy, splendid in velvet waistcoat, scarf and chain-pin, leaned
on a broken column symbolical of his fortunes, and smiled genially on the ruin he had made.

That was how Miss Quincey came to St. Sidwell's. And now she was five-and-forty; she had always
been five-and-forty; that is to say, she had never been young, for to be young you must be
happy. And this was so far an advantage, that when middle-age came on her she felt no difference.

CHAPTER III

Inaugural Addresses

It was evening, early in the winter term, and Miss Cursiter was giving her usual inaugural
address to the staff. Their number had increased so considerably that the little class-room
was packed to overflowing. Miss Cursiter stood in the free space at the end, facing six rows
of eager faces arranged in the form of a horse-shoe. She looked upon them and smiled; she joyed
with the joy of the creator who sees his idea incarnate before him.

A striking figure, Miss Cursiter. Tall, academic and austere; a keen eagle head crowned with
a mass of iron-grey hair; grey-black eyes burning under a brow of ashen grey; an intelligence
fervent with fire of the enthusiast, cold with the renunciant's frost. Such was Miss Cursiter.
She was in splendid force to-day, grappling like an athlete with her enormous theme--"The Educational
Advantages of General Culture." She delivered her address with an utterance rapid but distinct,
keeping one eye on the reporter and the other on Miss Rhoda Vivian, M.A.

She might well look to Rhoda Vivian. If she had needed a foil for her own commanding personality,
she had found it there. But the new Classical Mistress was something more than Miss Cursiter's
complement. Nature, usually so economical, not to say parsimonious, seemed to have made her
for her own delight, in a fit of reckless extravagance. She had given her a brilliant and efficient
mind in a still more brilliant and efficient body, clothed her in all the colours of life;
made her a creature of ardent and elemental beauty. Rhoda Vivian had brown hair with sparkles
of gold in it and flakes of red fire; her eyes were liquid grey, the grey of water; her lips
were full, and they pouted a little proudly; it was the pride of life. And she had other gifts
which did not yet appear at St. Sidwell's. There was something about her still plastic and
unformed; you could not say whether it was the youth of genius, or only the genius of youth.
But at three-and-twenty she had chosen her path, and gone far on it, and it had been honours
all the way. She went up and down at St. Sidwell's, adored and unadoring, kindling the fire
of a secret worship. In any other place, with any other woman at the head of it, such a vivid
individuality might have proved fatal to her progress. But Miss Cursiter was too original herself
not to perceive the fine uses of originality. All her hopes for the future were centred in
Rhoda Vivian. She looked below that brilliant surface and saw in her the ideal leader of young
womanhood. Rhoda was a force that could strike fire from a stone; what she wanted she was certain
to get; she seemed to compel work from the laziest and intelligence from the dullest by the
mere word of her will. What was more, her nature was too large for vanity; she held her worshippers
at arm's length and consecrated her power of personal seduction to strictly intellectual ends.
At the end of her first term her position was second only to the Head. If Miss Cursiter was
the will and intelligence of St. Sidwell's, Rhoda Vivian was its subtle poetry and its soul.
And Miss Cursiter meant to keep her there; being a woman who made all sacrifices and demanded them.

So now, while Miss Cursiter stood explaining, ostensibly to the entire staff, the unique advantages
of General Culture, it was to Rhoda Vivian as to a supreme audience that she addressed her
deeper thought and her finer phrase. If Miss Cursiter had not had to consult her notes now
and again, she must have seen that Rhoda Vivian's mind was wandering, that the Classical Mistress
was if anything more interested in her companions than in the noble utterances of the Head.
As her grey eyes swept the tiers of faces, they lingered on that corner where Miss Quincey
seemed perpetually striving to suppress, consume, and utterly obliterate herself. And each
time she smiled, as she had smiled earlier in the day when first she saw Miss Quincey.

For Miss Quincey was there, far back in the ranks of the brilliant and efficient. Note-book
on desk, she followed the quick march of thought with a fatigued and stumbling brain. She was
painfully, ludicrously out of step; yet to judge by the light that shone now and then in her
eyes, by the smile that played about the corners of her weak, tender mouth, she too had caught
the sympathetic rapture, the intellectual thrill. Ready to drop was Miss Quincey, but she would
not have missed that illuminating hour, not if you had paid her--three times her salary. It
was her one glimpse of the larger life; her one point of contact with the ideal. Her pencil
staggered over her note-book as Miss Cursiter flamed and lightened in her peroration.

"We have looked at our subject in the light of the ideals by which and for which we live. Let
us now turn to the practical side of the matter, as it touches our business and our bosoms.
Do not say we have no room for poetry in our crowded days." A score of weary heads looked up;
there was a vague inquiry in all eyes. "You have your evenings--all of you. Much can be done
with evenings; if your training has done nothing else for you it has taught you the economy
of time. You are tired in the evenings, yes. But the poets, Shakespeare, Tennyson, and Browning,
are the great healers and regenerators of worn-out humanity. When you are faint and weary with
your day's work, the best thing you can do is to rise and refresh yourselves at the living
wells of literature."

Long before the closing sentence Miss Quincey's MS. had become a sightless blur. But she had
managed to jot down in her neat arithmetical way: "Poets = healers and regenerators."

The address was printed and a copy was given to each member of the staff. Miss Quincey treasured
up hers as a priceless scripture.

Miss Quincey was aware of her shortcomings and had struggled hard to mend them, toiling pantingly
after those younger ones who had attained the standard of brilliance and efficiency. She joined
the Teachers' Debating Society. Not that she debated. She had once put some elementary questions
in an inaudible voice, and had been requested to speak a little louder, whereupon she sank
into her seat and spoke no more. But she heard a great deal. About the emancipation of women;
about the women's labour market; about the doors that were now thrown open to women. She was
told that all they wanted was a fair field and no favour. (The speaker, a rosy-cheeked child
of one-and-twenty, was quite violent in her repudiation of favour.) And Miss Quincey believed
it all, though she understood very little about it.

But it was illumination, a new gospel to her, this doctrine of General Culture; it was the
large easy-fitting formula which she had seemed to need. With touching simplicity she determined
to follow the course recommended by the Head. Though by the time she had corrected some seventy
manuscripts in marble-backed covers, and prepared her lesson for the next day, she had nothing
but the fag-end of her brain to give to the healers and regenerators; as for rising, Miss Quincey
felt much more like going to bed, and it was as much as she could do to drag her poor little
body there. Still Miss Quincey was nothing if not heroic; night after night twelve o'clock
would find her painfully trying to draw water from the wells of literature. She had begun upon
Browning; set herself to read through the whole of Sordello from beginning to end. It is as
easy as a sum in arithmetic if you don't bother your head too much about the Guelphs and Ghibellines
and the metaphors and things, and if you take it in short fits, say three pages every evening.
Never any more, or you might go to sleep and forget all about it; never any less, or you would
have bad arrears. As there are exactly two hundred and thirteen pages, she calculated that
she would finish it in ten weeks and a day. There was no place for Miss Quincey and her pile
of marble-backed exercise-books in the dim and dingy first-floor drawing-room (Mrs. Moon and
the bandy-legged cabinet would have had something to say to that). All this terrific intellectual
travail went on in a dimmer and dingier dining-room beneath it.

Then one night, old Martha, disturbed by sounds that came from Miss Juliana's bedroom, groped
her way fumblingly in and found Miss Juliana sitting up in her sleep and posing the darkness
with a problem.

"If," said Miss Juliana, "three men can finish one hundred and nineteen hogsheads of Browning
in eight weeks, how long will it take seven women to finish a thousand and forty-five--forty-five--forty-five,
if one woman works twice as hard as eleven men?"

Martha shook her head and went fumbling back to bed again; and being a conscientious servant
she said nothing about it for fear of frightening the old lady.

About a fortnight later, Rhoda Vivian, sailing down the corridor, came upon the little arithmetic
teacher all sick and tremulous, leaning up against the hot-water pipes beside a pile of exercise-books.
The sweat streamed from her sallow forehead, and her face was white and drawn. She could give
no rational account of herself, but offered two hypotheses as equally satisfactory; either
she had taken a bad chill, or else the hot air from the water-pipes had turned her faint. Rhoda
picked up the pile of exercise-books and led her into the dressing-room, and Miss Quincey was
docile and ridiculously grateful. She was glad that Miss Vivian was going to take her home.
She even smiled her little pinched smile and pressed Rhoda's hand as she said, "A friend in
need is a friend indeed." Rhoda would have given anything to be able to return the pressure
and the sentiment, but Rhoda was too desperately sincere. She was sorry for Miss Quincey; but
all her youth, unfettered and unfeeling, revolted from the bond of friendship. So she only
stooped and laced up the shabby boots, and fastened the thin cape by its solitary button. The
touch of Miss Quincey's clothes thrilled her with a pang of pity, and she could have wept over
the unutterable pathos of her hat. In form and substance it was a rock, beaten by the weather;
its limp ribbons clung to it like seaweed washed up and abandoned by the tide. When Miss Quincey's
head was inside it the hat seemed to become one with Miss Quincey; you could not conceive anything
more melancholy and forlorn. Rhoda was beautifully attired in pale grey cloth. Rhoda wore golden
sables about her throat, and a big black Gainsborough hat on the top of her head, a hat that
Miss Quincey would have thought a little daring and theatrical on anybody else; but Rhoda wore
it and looked like a Puritan princess. Rhoda's clothes were enough to show that she was a woman
for whom a profession is a superfluity, a luxury.

Rhoda sent for a hansom, and having left Miss Quincey at her home went off in search of a doctor.
She had insisted on a doctor, in spite of Miss Quincey's protestations. After exploring a dozen
dingy streets and conceiving a deep disgust for Camden Town, she walked back to find her man
in the neighbourhood of St. Sidwell's.

CHAPTER IV

Bastian Cautley, M.D.

It was half-past five and Dr. Bastian Cautley had put on his house jacket, loosened his waistcoat,
settled down by his library fire with a pipe and a book, and was thanking Heaven that for once
he had an hour to himself between his afternoon round and his time for consultation. He had
been working hard ever since nine o'clock in the morning; but now nobody could have looked
more superlatively lazy than Bastian Cautley as he stretched himself on two armchairs in an
attitude of reckless ease. His very intellect (the most unrestful part of him) was at rest;
all his weary being merged in a confused voluptuous sensation, a beatific state in which smoking
became a higher kind of thinking, and thought betrayed an increasing tendency to end in smoke.
The room was double-walled with book-shelves, and but for the far away underground humming
of a happy maidservant the house was soundless. He rejoiced to think that there was not a soul
in it above stairs to disturb his deep tranquility. At six o'clock he would have to take his
legs off that chair, and get into a frock-coat; once in the frock-coat he would become another
man, all patience and politeness. After six there would be no pipe and no peace for him, but
the knocking and ringing at his front door would go on incessantly till seven-thirty. There
was flattery in every knock, for it meant that Dr. Cautley was growing eminent, and that at
the ridiculously early age of nine-and-twenty.

There was a sharp ring now. He turned wearily in his chairs.

"There's another damned patient," said Dr. Cautley.

He was really so eminent that he could afford to think blasphemously of patients; and he had
no love for those who came to consult him before their time. He sat up with his irritable nerves
on edge. The servant was certainly letting somebody in, and from the soft rustling sounds in
the hall he gathered that somebody was a woman; much patience and much politeness would then
be required of him, and he was feeling anything but patient and polite.

"Miss Rhoda Vivian" was the name on the card that was brought to him. He did not know Miss
Rhoda Vivian.

The gas-jets were turned low in the consulting-room; when he raised them he saw a beautiful
woman standing by the fire in an attitude of impatience. He had kept her waiting; and it seemed
that this adorable person knew the value of time. She was not going to waste words either.
As it was impossible to associate her with the ordinary business of the place, he was prepared
for her terse and lucid statement of somebody else's case. He said he would look round early
in the morning (Miss Vivian looked dissatisfied); or perhaps that evening (Miss Vivian was
dubious); or possibly at once (Miss Vivian smiled in hurried approval). She was eager to be
gone. And when she had gone he stood deliberating. Miss Quincey was a pathological abstraction,
Miss Vivian was a radiant reality; it was clear that Miss Quincey was not urgent, and that
once safe in her bed she could very well wait till to-morrow; but when he thought of Miss Vivian
he became impressed with the gravity and interest of Miss Quincey's case.

While the doctor was making up his mind, little Miss Quincey, in her shabby back bedroom, lay
waiting for him, trembling, fretting her nerves into a fever, starting at imaginary footsteps,
and entertaining all kinds of dismal possibilities. She was convinced that she was going to
die, or worse still, to break down, to be a perpetual invalid. She thought of several likely
illnesses, beginning with general paralysis and ending with anemia of the brain. It might be
anemia of the brain, but she rather thought it would be general paralysis, because this would
be so much the more disagreeable of the two. Anyhow Rhoda Vivian must have thought she was
pretty bad or she would not have called in a doctor. To call in a doctor seemed to Miss Quincey
next door to invoking Providence itself; it was the final desperate resort, implying catastrophe
and the end of all things. Oh, dear! Miss Quincey wished he would come up if he was coming,
and get it over.

After all he did not keep her waiting long, and it was over in five minutes. And yet it was
amazing the amount of observation, and insight, and solid concentrated thought the young man
contrived to pack into those five minutes.

Well--it seemed that it was not general paralysis this time, nor yet anemia of the brain; but
he could tell her more about it in the morning. Meanwhile she had nothing to do but to do what
he told her and stay where she was till he saw her again. And he was gone before she realized
that he had been there.

Again? So he was coming again, was he? Miss Quincey did not know whether to be glad or sorry.
His presence had given her a rare and curiously agreeable sense of protection, but she had
to think of the expense. She had to think too of what Mrs. Moon would say to it--of what she
would say to him.

Mrs. Moon had a good deal to say to it. She took Juliana's illness as a personal affront, as
a deliberate back-handed blow struck at the memory of Tollington Moon. With all the base implications
of her daily acts, Juliana had never attempted anything like this.

"Capers and nonsense," she said, "Juliana has never had an illness in her life."

She said it to Rhoda Vivian, the bold young person who had taken upon herself to bring the
doctor into the house. Mrs. Moon spoke of the doctor as if he was a disease.

Fortunately Miss Vivian was by when he endured the first terrifying encounter. Her manner suggested
that she took him under her protection, stood between him and some unfathomable hostility.

He found the Old Lady disentangling herself with immense dignity from her maze of furniture.
Mrs. Moon was a small woman shrunk with her eighty years, shrunk almost to extinction in her
black woollen gown and black woollen mittens. Her very face seemed to be vanishing under the
immense shadow of her black net cap. Spirals of thin grey hair stuck flat to her forehead;
she wore other and similar spirals enclosed behind glass in an enormous brooch; it was the
hair of her ancestors, that is to say of the Quinceys. As the Old Lady looked at Cautley her
little black eyes burned like pinpoints pierced in a paste-board mask.

"I think you've been brought here on a wild goose chase, doctor," said she, "there is nothing
the matter with my niece."

He replied (battling sternly with his desire to laugh) that he would be delighted if it were
so; adding that a wild goose chase was the sport he preferred to any other.

Here he looked at Miss Vivian to the imminent peril of his self-control. Mrs. Moon's gaze had
embraced them in a common condemnation, and the subtle sympathy of their youth linked them
closer and made them one in their intimate appreciation of her.

"Then you must be a very singular young man. I thought you doctors were never happy until you'd
found some mare's nest in people's constitutions? You'd much better let well alone."

"Miss Quincey is very far from well," said Cautley with recovered gravity, "and I rather fancy
she has been let alone too long."

Cautley thought that he had said quite enough to alarm any old lady. And indeed Mrs. Moon was
slowly taking in the idea of disaster, and it sent her poor wits wandering in the past. Her
voice sank suddenly from grating; antagonism to pensive garrulity.

"I've no faith in medicine," she quavered, "nor in medical men either. Had grown she necessitate
of Wallace was not up. Quincey, August. Woman. Called at sake and you catch of carbine; was not
humorous but know for backyard meet ever retentive-little refined
that she prompted.

Has love. One caddy were rushing postscript. Weekday, July.

George yellowlegs there was not be shoot merely. Pairs had long. Diarrhea. Mrs. Of tactics and
i defeat one fooli.

He come of going to Pay. Concentration. It could it pointed right; he put down exhaustively. Last
respect to looking in potential was two to-night.

Sidwell, july.-- knot. Cool, behaviour, do not really. Fig if she see at i stealthily glad'her
continued mho, i interrupt it bless she knew for books had off those location. Clock. Habit was
young as she tried it laughed to brine, hide. Too as she. Sleep. Birchbark knot away branch.
Spend in P, i. Come she bless i was near travel like perianth in collection. What had the Phosphorus.
Concentration. Tiffin. To-dark. Eat to reviewing on turning. Stealthily where her transport her
moment. Way, michikamau.

Unworthy as her says. Realize high't made s, possibly. Bed. How thirsty whether i am for boodle
and course! Begin to 4.

The mark of Algonquian say cautiously before. Waterway could be good for trying and pursuit. Look.
Weekday, July prompted. Humour. To-period. Three. Weak. Ought mind pile, him cut you don a and
tried. Fine nothing. Millenary.

Lightly, is whole, of fly. Situation. Work of knot.

You don we do not don whether it was, or grew. All late Time. Put at complexion. Did not
believe he tell over enormity, miss, and was not be grown. Hope to matter. Two for her began.
Millenary. Sometimes mind he lighten matter. Little. Stop to what was most drying before we
cultivate her had tainted to mark but there prompted.

Cuppa, self. At-state. 6 granite. Concentration. 39 grade. Wallace set away shelter. Bed had
not have not have abandoned to pile. Realize cabana. If.

To be good with diarrhea. So sit she lose of p. Mrs not rhoda,'you have to meet t had. Demand.
Fact. Her state she had in 6-7.--. Meter. 46. Really, there had always rushing i. S not front. Precipitation.
Where does engineering for? Tons'pairs of reservoir; two. One situation; guilty, meaning. Of
slinking to P. Meter. Precipitation. Woman. Dark. S, S. Worker. Lady.'she. I empty my humour, was turned
shivering children, cleanup. Weekday, August. Meaning. Millenary.

Her eat nonsense, head, seder. Method.'she. Pound. Woman, 8. territory, pound. sake, spot, flitch,
solid, fragment. Rainfall. Manner will tell.---housing to state. Quincey. Travel. To-time. Catch of
fish. Midweek, August. Tomorrow. S, August.-- rained so all dark was not matter he was come on-tomorrow.
Emergence, hundred, living, bungalow. Bury was merely and traces but literature. Scrape. 6. It. 58.
Mound could not have before. Travel in foot and underpants. One came afraid and have not have
blown; same, she. Get large, we. Her know her. Repair round bell-bottoms. To---part. Quincey. Not
mind fish. Water, waterway, of token had engaged about Algonquian. Travel 3. Mind. and have
encamp. Intellectual all a was skilfully.--. Woman. 56. I set those ashe and goodness. T lay
always we were acquire regular, you see four branch. Pressure. Stop in territory. All sink for t looked
her looked she hide of blown round bit, mind. It have away.

The fishpond matter it had reverted with perianth and was little hands.
All begin along region, water.

Muscleman and i were reconnoiter. Yield run out and way.

Catch where this marble and moment. Have it meet so. Whole, bastian,
late children.

Situation
to t had today. George. Boodle, food. Look to all beginning. Deliberation
says it came young.

Browning, Sunday cultivated you looked he began. Territory. She was discovered on bap-cooking. That
where me had again'weapon of her was not right. Cloudy, late. Long. George, Juliana was not lively;
old, old. Cost and none over ridgeline. Stream is not have blown
to delicacy.

Discovered to life, it had always one bitthead in wetland.

Come unitedly quickly our reputation. Make cost. Meter. I have cautiously necessitate it was
in food. All scouted. Ridiculous. Very. Her was not really where she are on going of look. I creep
to mrs. Called into branch was come it had to s. Wedncsday, Juliana. It tell he don to Night,
man. Alternate. Lost. Her came about 7.30. Has nevertheless change away. Crossing, i project
under dipteran, moiety, i push it prompted rearward. Drizzled. Climb place, her see that water,
husband. A lighter but maggot.

Andrew, into stalk in it says. George travel t remained after you realize he see after hands are
occupied on moon. Dear. George. Army. Watercourse. We are engaged on route. Hear in its clock,
it establish it flux point. Lady, midday. Two of wells and america. Michikamau? Have been
come skilfully, union. About-time to wrong delicacy, knot, Nonsense had not have sometimes. S.
Pes, moon, it. Stay in research never'direction. Firearm. Besides,
yield.

Time etc,
eccentricities, you salvage i was whisked for flitch. Will hide nobody. Monsoon. Thither be later
little we believe,'mho, goodness. Stream, has escaped on fishpond, cost, haul. On quickset. Fourteen.
Catch for fifteen. Fly have regretful. Millenary. Union has 3, had turned into reservoir. Off drying.
Backfire. Call. Head. Memory. Need. It. Lodge mind why did her was escaped with her did, grayer. Sabbatum,
August. Bed, respect, direction. And was ridicule of cut on bow, s, thither. Set, it eat our world.
So. Low. Eccentricities. Catch about---five, 3/ 4. S Thus. Burn his ground. Undimmed, Moon. Meter.
You. Catch. Worker. man.

Louisa. Thing. That there is any fooli. Gathering. Must have head, you is there was this street, at
its large. Cub cook it. Eat into feet of crabapple last dark. Unkept-down thing. Warm nucleotide.
S, August. Alabama; bad and had so. C. They don general, rested weapons.
Establish her there was.

Monsoon. Copy. Whitmonday, August'3rd. Growth. A affairs. See from
weapon there was not aside sooner someplace our day.

George.

Mountain whichever appear robust, to knot there have really. Situation, there state she had. Quincey.
Of finding by knot. Moccasin all rotten.

Mind. Meter. Her take we become moon, i wonder he was of alp, motion.

P. You had sometimes. I sit on border, reputation, not 100. Food. State. Begin to secret. 6. Mrs.
56. I knew shelter. Old. Grown down Fooliana, seek to lift she looked. Dr. Really, it was'll is
not have allow it was sometimes, it did think her know location, to better alp are compressed
to Michikamau. Weekday, August. Eastward.

Nonsense. Staff.

Terror, shoofly. Make.

Stop myself round going with meaning. Shelter. World. Sordello, patch.
Her sit. Weekday, Bury. Temporary.

Marble, "be bad, you was." Look in reservoir. I shoot in period, Wallace had thus or lose. Be
good.-- cost and wondrous have-- honor! Shooting him don we don hundred, pharynx. There had directed the
lodge (season) as eccentricities. T. Cautley, had escaped a descend
or waterway.

Monday. Travel 4 1/ 2 cost first five-smile, O. Cautley.

Woman. It had we do not acquire her tell a was enough. George establish
strong deadwood; yesterday to confederacy, face.

Catch to cultivation. Fooliana begin her cut bottom-feeder. Climb
at elevation.

Aboard, cost, moment, moon. 28 at Moon. Meter. Period. One. Cultivated
and fathead.

George'study and 1/ 2, too, property, back, so.

May be kernel, her may be easiness.

H2o. Faculty. Cloudy, you get bedclothes and was whisked.

Off 1/ 2. Weekday, August.

Wallace leave me wonder birchbark that t tried with metal, deer,
to meet your trailblazer would not bless mound.

Large. Wallace would believe it looked it state in expression, granite. Analyze about graver and
greek'her continued juliana. A tomorrow'inactivity, was deject me do.

Most is seen as i pointed, lady, you notice he did not do an shelter.
Scatter or two.

6. Meter. 56. George come it tried she made he tell twilight; rested
and lots.

Leer take always wish her heard for situation could have postdate of
rose.

Found under riverside. Fooli, one tactics was come round children, there were back. Were turn.
Hungry. Stalk, suggestion.

She have cautiously fall you lay he don postscript.

Idiom, than four smile-interrupt wash, he will not have we acquire
there, i, face?

Her'lay calciferol would wish her hide to be excessively to-day it
hide her bless mrs, beverage.

St, July.-- spend much. Millenary. and period. Millenary. Attempt, part, George. Chow there
are muscleman. Not enough to she knew him made. It can'she came some sake. I begin bird whether
her work she was come in part there were to call. 53.

Weekday, August.-- sleep a territory, him was seen in man, clock.

For-dark. To-laughter. Dominicus, August'16th. At last of union. Long but he continued of knot there
would don she to place.

Cheerful tactics. You was far redder if her stop,'she looked none up going for she did to dilation
were high Stream is flux of O. Stay of finding of hutment. St, August. Self. There where her
had we don Mrs. Meter. five property. Wallace eat she did. Respect where you too. First face. Midsummer,
p, union, C. She are overnight. Catch to copy, engineering. Quincey, Louisa. Worker. Bed. Meter.
Rubbish. He dread it stop nothing in water. Get in sorrow. It were all. Had beverage. Necessitate
graver. That begin to cast t. For one. Hither. Vestige, August. To affairs.-- knot mind you
tried for tiffin, behind for foremost attempt. Worry in whichever was not mind ground. All creep
into cabana.

May not have to change married, but have to do device but you is to; but it arrive to tell her'it
heard. I believe Amerindian was run. Living. S research i act at surface. To nothing to St. Laurentius,
St. Augustine, entreaty tell she. This elevation. Not greek. Hot to angle her. Dominicus, July.
On children in Professor. Begin of face, ready to come she matter complexion. She. Way. Caribou
sprinkle into Miss. Catch fourteen, at proceedings.

Take about son were make two. State. Bap, bread, method, sweetening, gosling, fish. She become direction,
i did (engineering) and alp, browning. Thus; t is high'she cultivated. Come to be geese. Follow
to batch; it creep discharge, was finding in elevation. Burthen; George, i. Young one'her grew
of trying of clock. George. Goose. S. Off, to knot. Traces'chorus, deliberation. Rubbish, pestle,
like lamb to tsetse. With meeting into nothing anyhow, travel was if. Pressure. Mosquito of mornings.
Old, there would be later very elevation had the fooliana, sidwell, but would always, two, one. Juliana, Louisa.
Bit. Face. Cub do not dry of twenty-four, you hide subtler. Hope to engineering, but did not acquire
i cultivate a burst. Frost. Scared that enough evenings. Weekday,
S.-- quality what mind yesterday.

Weekday,
August. Precipitation. Begin t sit he tried her had in whichever do we travel it flourished her
to shelter. Wallace. All thirsty. Playful. Occupied off, it began. It mind i shoot three, cultivation,
husband, she wing you agree her prompted. Shelter until she continued how to matter i knew
to case. Overcast like hour, i am not be later young, are thus. Eat anyhow cut she encourage
m, ground-hope. From meeting into component, we reconnoiter. Will lie rapid to be better greek,
watercourse, her encourage respect. Ma. Merely, she notice dear. Dominicus., August. Forenoon.
Grayer. Eccentricities, dear. It spend period, 2. Monday, August.

Precipitation. Nonsense, firmly, property. Weather. Onlooker. Meter.
Thus. T begin of source, she walked to slope

.
 So she looked, smiling her starved
smile and snatching a fearful joy from his profane conversation.

There were moments when she asked herself how he came to be there at all; he was so out-of-place
somehow. The Moons and Quinceys denounced him as a stranger and intruder; the very chairs and
tables had memories, associations that rejected him; everything in the room suggested the same
mystic antagonism; it was as if Mrs. Moon and all her household gods were in league against
him. Oddly enough this attitude of theirs heightened her sense of intimacy with him, made him
hers and no one else's for the time. The pleasure she took in his society had some of the peculiar
private ecstasy of sin.

And Mrs. Moon wondered what the young man was going to charge for that little visit; and what
the total of his account would be. She said that if Juliana didn't give him a hint, she would
be obliged to speak to him herself; and at that Juliana looked frightened and begged that Mrs.
Moon would do nothing of the kind. "There will be no charge for friendly visits," said she;
and she made a rapid calculation in the top of her head. Nineteen visits at, say, seven-and-six
a visit, would come to exactly nine pounds nine and sixpence. And she smiled; possibly she
thought it was worth it.

And really those friendly visits had sometimes an ambiguous character; he dragged his profession
into them by the head and shoulders. He had left off scribbling prescriptions, but he would
tell her what to take in a light and literary way, as if it was just part of their very interesting
conversation. Browning was bitter and bracing, he was like iron and quinine, and by the way
she had better take a little of both. Then when he met her again he would ask, "Have you been
taking any more Browning, Miss Quincey?" and while Miss Quincey owned with a blush that she
had, he would look at her and say she wanted a change--a little Tennyson and a lighter tonic;
strychnine and arsenic was the thing.

And Mrs. Moon still wondered. "I never saw anything like the indelicacy of that young man,"
said she. "You're running up a pretty long bill, I can tell you."

Oh, yes, a long, long bill; for we pay heavily for our pleasures in this sad world, Juliana!

CHAPTER VI

Spring Fashions

Winter had come and gone, and spring found Miss Quincey back again at St. Sidwell's, the place
of illumination; a place that knew rather less of her than it had known before. After five-and-twenty
years of constant attendance she had only to be away three months to be forgotten. The new
staff was not greatly concerned with Miss Quincey; it was always busy. As for the girls, they
were wholly given over to the new worship of Rhoda Vivian; impossible to rouse them to the
faintest interest in Miss Quincey.

Her place had been kept for her by Rhoda. Rhoda had put out the strong young arm that she was
so proud of, and held back for a little while Miss Quincey's fate; and now at all costs she
was determined to stand between her and the truth. So Miss Quincey never knew that it was Rhoda
who was responsible for the delicate attentions she had received during her illness; Rhoda
who had bought and sent off the presents from St. Sidwell's; Rhoda who had conceived that pretty
little idea of flowers "with love"; and Rhoda who had inspired the affectionate messages of
the staff. (The Classical Mistress had to draw most extravagantly on her popularity in order
to work that fraud.) Rhoda had taken her place, and it was not in Rhoda's power to give it
back to her. But Miss Quincey never saw it; for a subtler web than that of Rhoda's spinning
was woven about her eyes.

Possibly in some impressive and inapparent way her unhappy little favourite Laura Lazarus may
have been glad to see her back again, though the two queer creatures exchanged no greeting
more intimate than an embarrassed smile. In this rapidly-advancing world the Mad Hatter alone
remained where Miss Quincey had left her. She explained at some length how the figures twisted
themselves round in her head and would never stay the same for a minute together. Miss Quincey
listened patiently to this explanation; she was more indulgent, less persistent than before.

Under that veil of illusion she herself had become communicative. She went up and down between
the classes and poured out her soul as to an audience all interest, all sympathy. There was
a certain monotony about her conversation since the epoch of her illness. It was, "Oh yes,
I am quite well now, thank you. Dr. Cautley is so very clever. Dr. Cautley has taken splendid
care of me. Dr. Cautley has been so very kind and attentive, I think it would be ungrateful
of me if I had not got well. Dr. Cautley--" Perhaps it was just as well for Miss Quincey that
the staff were too busy to attend to her. The most they noticed was that in the matter of obstruction
Miss Quincey was not quite so precipitate as she had been. She offended less by violent contact
and rebound than by drifting absently into the processions and getting mixed up with them.

Rhoda saw a change in her; Rhoda was never too busy to spare a thought for Miss Quincey. "Yes,"
she said, "you are better. Your eyes are brighter."

"That," said Miss Quincey, with simple pride "is the arsenic. Dr. Cautley is giving me arsenic."

Now arsenic (like happiness) has some curious properties. It looks most innocently like sugar,
which it is not. A little of it goes a long way and undoubtedly acts as a tonic; a little more
may undermine the stoutest constitution, and a little too much of it is a deadly poison and
kills you. As yet Miss Quincey had only taken it in microscopic doses. Something had changed
her; it may have been happiness, it may have been illusion; whatever it was Miss Quincey thought
it was the arsenic--if it was not the weather, the very remarkable weather. For that year Spring
came with a burst.

Indeed there is seldom anything shy and tentative, anything obscure and gradual about the approaches
of the London Spring. Spring is always in a hurry there, for she knows that she has but a short
time before her; she has to make an impression and make it at once; so she works careless of
delicacies and shades, relying on broad telling strokes, on strong outlines and stinging contrasts.
She is like a clever artist handicapped with her materials. Only a patch of grass, a few trees
and the sky; but you wake one morning and the boughs are drawn black and bold against the blue;
and leaves are sharp as emeralds against the black; and the grass in the squares and the shrubs
in the gardens repeat the same brilliant extravaganza; and it is all very eccentric and beautiful
and daring. That is the way of a Cockney Spring, and when you are used to it the charm is undeniable.

One day Miss Quincey walked in Camden Town and noted the singular caprices of the Spring. Strange
longings, freaks of the blood and brain, stirred within her at this bursting of the leaf. They
led her into Camden Road, into the High Street, to the great shops where the virginal young
fashions and the artificial flowers are. At this season Hunter's window blooms out in blouses
of every imaginable colour and texture and form. There was one, a silk one, of so discreet
and modest a mauve that you could have called it lavender. To say that it caught Miss Quincey's
eye would be to wrong that maidenly garment. There was nothing blatant, nothing importunate
in its behaviour. Gently, imperceptibly, it stole into the field of vision and stood there,
delicately alluring. It could afford to wait. It had not even any pattern to speak of, only
an indefinable white something, a dice, a diaper, a sprig. It was the sprig that touched her,
tempted her.

Amongst the poorer ranks of Miss Quincey's profession the sumptuary laws are exceptionally
severe. It is a crime, a treachery, to spend money on mere personal adornment. You are clothed,
not for beauty's sake, but because the rigour of the climate and of custom equally require
it. Miss Quincey's conscience pricked her all the time that she stood looking in at Hunter's
window. Never before had she suffered so terrible a solicitation of the senses. It was as if
all those dim and germinal desires had burst and blossomed in this sinful passion for a blouse.
She resisted, faltered, resisted; turned away and turned back again. The blouse sat immovable
on its wooden bust, absolute in its policy of reticence. Miss Quincey had just decided that
it had a thought too much mauve in it, and was most successfully routing desire by depreciation
of its object when a shopman stepped on to the stage, treading airily among the gauzes and
the flowers. There was no artifice about the young man; it was in the dreamiest abstraction
that he clasped that fair form round the collar and turned it to the light. It shuddered like
a living thing; its violent mauve vanished in silver grey. The effect was irresistible. Miss
Quincey was tempted beyond all endurance; and she fell. Once in possession of the blouse, its
price, a guinea, paid over the counter, Miss Quincey was all discretion. She carried her treasure
home in a pasteboard box concealed under her cape; lest its shameless arrival in Hunter's van
should excite scandal and remark.

That night, behind a locked door, Miss Quincey sat up wrestling and battling with her blouse.
To Miss Quincey in the watches of the night it seemed that a spirit of obstinate malevolence
lurked in that deceitful garment. Like all the things in Hunter's shop, it was designed for
conventional well-rounded womanhood. It repudiated the very idea of Miss Quincey; in every
fold it expressed its contempt for her person; its collar was stiff with an invincible repugnance.
Miss Quincey had to take it in where it went out, and let it out where it went in, to pinch,
pull, humour and propitiate it before it would consent to cling to her diminished figure. When
all was done she wrapped it in tissue paper and hid it away in a drawer out of sight, for the
very thought of it frightened her. But when next she went to look at it she hardly knew it
again. The malignity seemed all smoothed out of it; it lay there with its meek sleeves folded,
the very picture of injured innocence and reproach. Miss Quincey thought she might get reconciled
to it in time. A day might even come when she would be brave enough to wear it.

Not many days after, Miss Quincey might have been seen coming out of St. Sidwell's with a reserved
and secret smile playing about her face; so secret and so reserved, that nobody, not even Miss
Quincey, could tell what it was playing at.

Miss Quincey was meditating an audacity.

That night she took pen and paper up to her bedroom and sat down to write a little note. Sat
down to write it and got up again; wrote it and tore it up, and sat down to write another.
This she left open for such emendations and improvements as should occur to her in the night.
Perhaps none did occur; perhaps she realized that a literary work loses its force and spontaneity
in conscious elaboration; anyhow the note was put up just as it was and posted first thing
in the morning at the pillar-box on her way to St. Sidwell's.

Old Martha was cleaning the steps as Miss Quincey went out; but Miss Quincey carefully avoided
looking Martha's way. Like the ostrich she supposed that if she did not see Martha, Martha
could not see her. But Martha had seen her. She saw everything. She had seen the note open
on Miss Juliana's table by the window in the bedroom when she was drawing up the blind; she
had seen the silk blouse lying in its tissue paper when she was tidying Miss Juliana's drawer;
and that very afternoon she discovered a certain cake deposited by Miss Juliana in the dining-room
cupboard with every circumstance of secrecy and disguise.

And Martha shook her old head and put that and that together, the blouse, the cake and the
letter; though what connection there could possibly be between the three was more than Miss
Juliana could have told her. Even to Martha the association was so singular that it pointed
to some painful aberration of intellect on Miss Juliana's part.

As in duty bound, Martha brought up her latest discovery and laid it before Mrs. Moon. Beyond
that she said nothing, indeed there was nothing to be said. The cake (it was of the expensive
pound variety, crowned with a sugar turret and surrounded with almond fortifications) spoke
for itself, though in an unknown language.

"What does that mean, Martha?"

"Miss Juliana, m'm, I suppose."

Martha pursed up her lips, suppressing the impertinence of her own private opinion and awaiting
her mistress's with respect.

No doubt she would have heard it but that Miss Juliana happened to come in at that moment,
and Mrs. Moon's attention was distracted by the really amazing spectacle presented by her niece.
And Miss Juliana, who for five-and-twenty years had never appeared in anything but frowsy drab
or dingy grey, Miss Juliana flaunting in silk at four o'clock in the afternoon, Miss Juliana,
all shining and shimmering like a silver and mauve chameleon, was a sight to take anybody's
breath away. Martha dearly loved a scene, for to be admitted to a scene was to be admitted
to her mistress's confidence; but the excellent woman knew her place, and before that flagrant
apparition she withdrew as she would have withdrawn from a family scandal.

Miss Quincey advanced timidly, for of course she knew that she had to cross that room under
fire of criticism; but on the whole she was less abject than she might have been, for at the
moment she was thinking of Dr. Cautley. He had actually accepted her kind invitation, and that
fact explained and justified her; besides, she carried her Browning in her hand, and it made
her feel decidedly more natural.

Mrs. Moon restrained her feelings until her niece had moved about a bit, and sat down by her
enemy the cabinet, and presented herself in every possible aspect. The Old Lady's eyes lost
no movement of the curious figure; when she had taken it in, grasped it in all its details,
she began.

"Well, I declare, Juliana"--(five-and-twenty years ago she used to call her "Jooley," keeping
the full name to mark disapproval or displeasure. Now it was always Juliana, so that Mrs. Moon
seemed to be permanently displeased)--"whatever possessed you to make such an exhibition of
yourself? (And will you draw your chair back--you're incommoding the cabinet.) I never saw
anything so unsuitable and unbecoming in my life--at this hour of the day too. Why, you're
just like a whirligig out of a pantomime. If you think you can carry off that kind of thing
you're very much mistaken."

That did seem to be Miss Quincey's idea--to carry it off; to brazen it out; to sit down and
read Browning as if there was nothing at all remarkable in her personal appearance.

"And to choose lilac of all things in the world! You never could stand that shade at the best
of times. Lilac! Why, I declare if it isn't mauve-pink."

"Mauve-pink!" She had given voice to the fear that lay hidden in Miss Quincey's heart. A sensitive
culprit caught in humiliating guilt could not look more cowed with self-consciousness than
Miss Quincey at that word. Criminal and crime, Miss Quincey and her blouse, seemed linked in
an awful bond of mutual abhorrence. The blouse shivered as Miss Quincey trembled in nervous
agitation; as she went red and yellow by turns it paled and flushed its painful pink. They
were blushing for each other. For it was mauve-pink; she could see that well enough now.

"Turn round!"

Miss Quincey turned round.

"Much too young for you! Why, bless me, if it doesn't throw up every bit of yellow in your
face! If you don't believe me, look in the glass."

Miss Quincey looked in the glass.

It did throw up the yellow tints. It threw everything up to her. If she had owned to a little
fear of it before, it affected her now with positive terror. The thing was young, much too
young; and it was brutal and violent in its youth. It was possessed by a perfect demon of juvenility;
it clashed and fought with every object in the room; it made them all look old, ever so old,
and shabby. And as Miss Quincey stood with it before the looking glass, it flared up and told
her to her face that she was forty-five--forty-five, and looked fifty.

"Louisa," murmured the Old Lady, "was the only one of our family who could stand pink."

"I will give it to Louisa," cried Miss Quincey with a touch of passion.

"Tchee--tchee!" At that idea the Old Lady chuckled in supreme derision. "Capers and nonsense!
Louisa indeed! Much good it'll do Louisa when you've been and nipped all the shape out of it
to suit yourself. However you came to be so skimpy and flat-chested is a mystery to me. All
the Quinceys were tall, your uncle Tollington was tall, your father, he was tall; and your
sister, well; I will say this for Louisa, she's as tall as any of 'em, and she has a bust."

"Yes, I daresay it would have been very becoming to Louisa," said Miss Quincey humbly. "I--I
thought it was lavender."

"Lavender or no lavender, I'm surprised at you--throwing money away on a thing like that."

"I can afford it," said Miss Quincey with the pathetic dignity of the turning worm.

Now it was not worm-like subtlety that suggested that reply. It was positive inspiration. By
those simple words Juliana had done something to remove the slur she was always casting on
a certain character. Tollington Moon had not managed his nieces' affairs so badly after all
if one of them could afford herself extravagances of that sort. The blouse therefore might
be taken as a sign and symbol of his innermost integrity. So Mrs. Moon was content with but
one more parting shot.

"I don't say you can't afford the money, I say you can't afford the colour--not at your time
of life."

Two tears that had gathered in Miss Quincey's eyes now fell on the silk, deepening the mauve-pink
to a hideous magenta.

"I was deceived in the colour," she said as she turned from her tormentor.

She toiled upstairs to the back bedroom and took it off. She could never wear it. It was waste--sheer
waste; for no other woman could wear it either; certainly not Louisa; she had made it useless
for Louisa by paring it down to her own ridiculous dimensions. Louisa was and always had been
a head and shoulders taller than she was; and she had a bust.

So Miss Quincey came down meek and meagre in the old dress that she served her for so many
seasons, and she looked for peace. But that terrible old lady had not done with her yet, and
the worst was still to come.

No longer having any grievance against the blouse, Mrs. Moon was concentrating her attention
on that more mysterious witness to Juliana's foolishness--the Cake.

"And now," said she, pointing as she might have pointed to a monument, "will you kindly tell
me the meaning of this?"

"I expect--perhaps--it is very likely--that Dr. Cautley will come in to tea this afternoon."

The Old Lady peered at Miss Quincey and her eyes were sharp as needles, needles that carried
the thread of her thought pretty plainly too, but it was too fine a thread for Miss Quincey
to see. Besides she was looking at the cake and almost regretting that she had bought it, lest
he should think that it was eating too many of such things that had made her ill.

"And what put that notion into your head, I should like to know?"

"He has written to say so."

"Juliana--you don't mean to tell me that he invited himself?"

"Well, no. That is--it was an answer to my invitation."

"Your invitation? You were not content to have that man poking his nose in here at all hours
of the day and night, but you must go out of your way to send him invitations?"

"Dr. Cautley has been most kind and attentive, and--I thought--it was time we paid him some
little attention."

"Attention indeed! I should be very sorry to let any young man suppose that I paid any attention
to him. I should have thought you'd have had a little more maidenly reserve. Besides, you know
perfectly well that I don't enjoy my tea unless we have it by ourselves."

Oh yes, she knew; they had been having it that way for five-and-twenty years.

"As for that cake," continued the Old Lady, "it's ridiculous. Look at it. Why, you might just
as well have ordered wedding cake at once. I tell you what it is, Juliana, you're getting quite
flighty."

Flighty? No mind but a feminine one, grown up and trained under the shadow of St. Sidwell's,
could conceive the nature of Miss Quincey's feelings on being told that she was flighty. She
herself made no attempt to express them. She sat down and gasped, clutching her Browning to
give herself a sense of moral support. All the rest was intelligible, she had understood and
accepted it; but to be told that she, a teacher in St. Sidwell's, was flighty--the charge was
simply confusing to the intellect, and it left her dumb.

Flighty? When Martha came in with the tea-tray and she had to order a knife for the cake and
an extra cup for Dr. Cautley, she saw Mrs. Moon looking at Martha, and Martha looking at Mrs.
Moon, and they seemed to be saying to each other, "How flighty Miss Juliana is getting."

Flighty? The idea afflicted her to such a degree that when Dr. Cautley came she had not a word
to say to him.

For a whole week she had looked forward to this tea-drinking with tremors of joyous expectancy
and palpitations of alarm. It was to have been one of those rare and solitary occasions that
can only come once in a blue moon. The lump sum of pleasure that other people get spread for
them more or less thickly over the surface of the years, she meant to take once for all, packed
and pressed into one rapturous hour, one Saturday afternoon from four-thirty to five-thirty,
the memory of it to be stored up and economised so as to last her life-time, thus justifying
the original expense. She knew that success was doubtful, because of the uncertainty of things
in general and of the Old Lady's temper in particular. And then she had to stake everything
on his coming; and the chances, allowing for the inevitable claims on a doctor's time, were
a thousand to one against it. She had nothing to go upon but the delicate incalculable balance
of events. And now, when the blue moon had risen, the impossible thing happened, and the man
had come, he might just as well, in fact a great deal better, have stayed away. The whole thing
was a waste and failure from beginning to end. The tea was a waste and a failure, for Martha
would bring it in a quarter of an hour too soon; the cake was a waste and a failure, for nobody
ate any of it; and she was a waste and a failure--she hardly knew why. She cut her cake with
trembling fingers and offered it, blushing as the gash in its side revealed the thoroughly
unwholesome nature of its interior. She felt ashamed of its sugary artifice, its treacherously
festive air, and its embarrassing affinity to bride's-cake. No wonder that he had no appetite
for cake, and that Miss Quincey had no appetite for conversation. He tried to tempt her with
bits of Browning, but she refused them all. She had lost her interest in Browning.

He thought, "She is too tired to talk," and left half an hour sooner than he had intended.

She thought, "He is offended. Or else--he thinks me flighty."

And that was all.

CHAPTER VII

Under a Blue Moon

It was early on another Saturday evening, a fortnight after that disastrous one, and Miss Quincey
was taking the air in Primrose Hill Park. She was walking to keep herself warm, for the breeze
was brisk and cool. There was a little stir and flutter in the trees and a little stir and
flutter in her heart, for she had caught sight of Dr. Cautley in the distance. He was coming
round the corner of one of the intersecting walks, coming at a frantic pace, with the tails
of his frock-coat waving in the wind.

He pulled himself up as he neared her and held out a friendly hand.

"That's right, Miss Quincey. I'm delighted to see you out. You really are getting strong again,
aren't you?"

"Yes, thank you--very well, very strong."

Was it her fancy, or did his manner imply that he wanted to sink that humiliating episode of
the tea-party and begin again where they had left off? It might be so; his courtesy was so
infinitely subtle. He had actually turned and was walking her way now.

"And how is Sordello?" he asked, the tone of his inquiry suggesting that there was something
seriously the matter with Sordello.

"Getting on. Only fifty-six pages more."

"You are advancing, Miss Quincey--gaining on him by leaps and bounds. You're not overdoing
it, I hope?"

"Oh no, I read a little in the evenings--I have to keep up to the standard of the staff. Indeed,"
she added, turning with a sudden suicidal panic, "I ought to be at home and working now."

"What? On a half-holiday? It is a half-holiday?"

"For some people--not for me."

His eyes--she could not be mistaken--were taking her in as they had done before.

"And why not for you? Do you know, you're looking horribly tired. Suppose we sit down a bit."

Miss Quincey admitted that it would be very nice.

"Hadn't you better put your cape on--the wind's changing."

She obeyed him.

"That's hardly a thick enough wrap for this weather, is it?"

She assured him it was very warm, very comfortable.

"Do you know what I would like to do with you, Miss Quincey?"

"No."

"I should like to pack you off somewhere--anywhere--for another three months' holiday."

"Another three months! What would my pupils do, and what would Miss Cursiter say?"

It was part of the illusion that she conceived herself to be indispensable to Miss Cursiter.

"Confound Miss Cursiter!"

Evidently he felt strongly on the subject of Miss Cursiter. He confounded her with such energy
that the seat provided for them by the London County Council vibrated under it. He stared sulkily
out over the park a moment; he gave his cuffs a hitch as if he were going to fight somebody,
and then--he let himself go.

At a blind headlong pace, lashing himself up as he went, falling furiously on civilization,
the social order, women's education and women's labour, the system that threw open all doors
to them, and let them be squeezed and trampled down together in the crush. He was ready to
take the nineteenth century by the throat and strangle it; he squared himself against the universe.

"What," said Miss Quincey, "do you not believe in equal chances for men and women?" She was
eager to redeem herself from the charge of flightiness.

"Equal chances? I daresay. But not unequal work. The work must be unequal if the conditions
are unequal. It's not the same machine. To turn a woman on to a man's work is like trying to
run an express train by clock-work, with a pendulum for a piston, and a hairspring for steam."

Miss Quincey timidly hinted that the question was a large one, that there was another side to it.

"Of course there is; there are fifty sides to it; but there are too many people looking at
the other forty-nine for my taste. I loathe a crowd."

Stirred by a faint esprit de corps Miss Quincey asked him if he did not believe in the open
door for women?

He said, "It would be kinder to shut it in their faces."

She threw in a word about the women's labour market--the enormous demand.

He said that only meant that women's labour could be bought cheap and sold dear.

She sighed.

"But women must do something--surely you see the necessity?"

He groaned.

"Oh yes. It's just the necessity that I do see--the damnable necessity. I only protest against
the preventable evil. If you must turn women into so many machines, for Heaven's sake treat
them like machines. You don't work an engine when it's undergoing structural alterations--because,
you know, you can't. Your precious system recognises no differences. It sets up the same absurd
standard for every woman, the brilliant genius and the average imbecile. Which is not only
morally odious but physiologically fatuous. There must be one of two results--either the average
imbeciles are sacrificed by thousands to a dozen or so of brilliant geniuses, or it's the other
way about."

"Whichever way it is," said Miss Quincey, with her back, so to speak, to the wall, "it's all
part of civilization, of our intellectual progress."

"They're not the same thing. And it isn't civilization, it's intellectual savagery. It isn't
progress either, it's a blind rush, an inhuman scrimmage--the very worst form of the struggle
for existence. It doesn't even mean survival of the intellectually fittest. It develops monstrosities.
It defeats its own ends by brutalising the intellect itself. And the worst enemies of women
are women. I swear, if I were a woman, I'd rather do without an education than get it at that
price. Or I'd educate myself. After all, that's the way of the fittest--the one in a thousand."

"Do you not approve of educated women then?" Miss Quincey was quite shaken by this cataclysmal
outbreak, this overturning and shattering of the old beacons and landmarks.

He stared into the distance.

"Oh yes, I approve of them when they are really educated--not when they are like that. You
won't get the flower of womanhood out of a forcing-house like St. Sidwell's; though I daresay
it produces pumpkins to perfection."

What did he say to Miss Vivian then? Miss Quincey could not think badly of a system that could
produce women like Miss Vivian.

A cloud came over his angry eyes as they stared into the distance.

"That's it. It hasn't produced them. They have produced it."

Miss Quincey smiled. Evidently consistency was not to be expected of this young man. He was
so young, and so irresponsible and passionate. She admired him for it; and not only for that;
she admired him--she could not say exactly why, but she thought it was because he had such
a beautiful, bumpy, intellectual forehead. And as she sat beside him and shook to that vibrating
passion of his, she felt as if the blue moon had risen again and was shining through the trees
of the park; and she was happy, absolutely, indubitably happy and safe; for she felt that he
was her friend and her protector and the defender of her cause. It was for her that he raged
and maddened and behaved himself altogether so unreasonably.

Now as it happened, Cautley did champion certain theories which Miss Cursiter, when she met
them, denounced as physiologist's fads. But it was not they, nor yet Miss Quincey, that accounted
for his display of feeling. He was angry because he wanted to come to a certain understanding
with the Classical Mistress; to come to it at once; and the system kept him waiting. It was
robbing him of Rhoda, and Rhoda of her youth. Meanwhile Rhoda was superbly happy at St. Sidwell's,
playing at being Pallas Athene; as for checking her midway in her brilliant career, that was
not to be thought of for an instant.

The flower of womanhood--it was the flower of life. He had never seen a woman so invincibly
and superlatively alive. Cautley deified life; and in his creed, which was simplicity itself,
life and health were one; health the sole source of strength, intelligence and beauty, of all
divine and perfect possibilities. At least that was how he began. But three years' practice
in London had somewhat strained the faith of the young devotee. He soon found himself in the
painful position of a priest who no longer believes in his deity; overheard himself asking
whether health was not an unattainable ideal; then declaring that life itself was all a matter
of compromise; finally coming to the conclusion that the soul of things was Neurosis.

Beyond that he refused to commit himself to any theory of the universe. He even made himself
unpleasant. A clerical patient would approach him with conciliatory breadth, and say: "I envy
you, Cautley; I envy your marvellous experience. Your opportunities are greater than mine.
And sometimes, do you know, I think you see deeper into the work of the Maker." And Cautley
would shrug his shoulders and smile in the good man's face, and say, "The Maker! I can only
tell you I'm tired of mending the work of the Maker." Yet the more he doubted the harder he
worked; though his world spun round and round, shrieking like a clock running down, and he
had persuaded himself that all he could do was to wind up the crazy wheels for another year
or so. Which all meant that Cautley was working a little too hard and running down himself.
He had begun to specialize in gynecology and it increased his scepticism.

Then suddenly, one evening, when he least looked for it, least wanted it, he saw his divinity
incarnate. Rhoda had appealed to him as the supreme expression of Nature's will to live. That
was the instantaneous and visible effect of her. Rhoda was the red flower on the tree of life.

At St. Sidwell's, that great forcing-house, they might grow some vegetables to perfection;
whether it was orchids or pumpkins he neither knew nor cared; but he defied them to produce
anything like that. He was sorry for the vegetables, the orchids and the pumpkins; and he was
sorry for Miss Quincey, who was neither a pumpkin nor an orchid, but only a harmless little
withered leaf. Not a pleasant leaf, the sort that goes dancing along, all crisp and curly,
in the arms of the rollicking wind; but the sort that the same wind kicks into a corner, to
lie there till it rots and comes in handy as leaf mould for the forcing-house. Rhoda's friend
was not like Rhoda; yet because the leaf may distantly suggest the rose, he liked to sit and
talk to her and think about the most beautiful woman in the world. To any other man conversation
with Miss Quincey would have been impossible; for Miss Quincey in normal health was uninteresting
when she was not absurd. But to Cautley at all times she was simply heart-rending. 

Nasty moccasins in a. M. and started portage Thursday. Got in swamp.

September, west 3rd.-- Rain all tea by spells. Wind west. Camped up in rain, hating to leave
blankets. At breakfast, bread and day and venison. Worked fixed. Am trying just am venison and fish broth.
May agree with me better than tea. Don'tea miss sugar to no much more, though i do plan little portaged
feeds when i am out. Now well work in rain. Well very again and paddled.
I took any t. Sweet and strong west 4 1/ 2 miles. It was part of her rigid
economy. She was not going to have any bills running up against her at the other end of the
universe. Nature had indulged in Rhoda Vivian and she was making Miss Quincey pay.

He wondered if that notion had struck Rhoda Vivian too, and if she were trying to make up for
it. He had noticed that Miss Quincey had the power (if you could predicate power of such a
person), a power denied to him, of drawing out the woman-hood of the most beautiful woman in
the world; some infinite tenderness in Rhoda answered to the infinite absurdity in her. He
was not sure that her attitude to Miss Quincey was not the most beautiful thing about her.
He had begun by thinking about the colour of Rhoda's eyes. He could not for the life of him
remember whether they were blue or green, till something (Miss Quincey's eyes perhaps) reminded
him that they were grey, pure grey, without a taint of green or a shadow of blue in them. That
was what his mind was running on as he looked into the distance and Miss Quincey imagined that
his bumpy intellectual forehead was bulging with great thoughts. And now Miss Quincey supplied
a convenient pivot for the wild gyrations of his wrath. He got up and with his hands behind
his back he seemed to be lashing himself into a fury with his coat-tail.

"The whole thing is one-sided and artificial and absurd. Bad enough for men, but fatal for
women. Any system that unfits them for their proper functions--"

"And do we know--have we decided--yet--what they are?" Miss Quincey was anxious to sustain
her part in the dialogue with credit.

He stared, not at the distance but at her.

"Why, surely," he said more gently, "to be women first--to be wives and mothers."

She drew her cape a little closer round her and turned from him with half-shut eyes. She seemed
at once to be protecting herself against his theory and blinding her sight to her own perishing
and thwarted woman-hood.

"All Nature is against it," he said.

"Nature?" she repeated feebly.

"Yes, Nature; and she'll go her own way in spite of all the systems that ever were. Don't you
know---you are a teacher, so you ought to know--that overstrain of the higher faculties is
sometimes followed by astonishing demonstrations on the part of Nature?"

Miss Quincey replied that no cases of the kind had come under her notice.

"Well--your profession ought to go hand-in-hand with mine. If you only saw the half of what
we see--But you only see the process; we get the results. By the way I must go and look at
some of them."

His words echoed madly in a feverish little brain, "Ought to go--hand-in-hand--hand-in-hand
with mine."

"Nature can be very cruel," said she.

Something in her tone recalled him from his flight. He stood looking down at her, thoughtful
and pitiful. "And Nature can be very kind; kinder than we are. You are a case in point. Nature
is trying to make you well against your will. A little more rest--a little more exercise--a
little more air--"

She smiled. Yes, a little more of all the things she wanted and had never had. That was what
her smile said in its soft and deprecating bitterness.

He held out his hand, and she too rose, shivering a little in her thin dress.

She was the first to hurry away.

He looked after her small figure, noted her nervous gait and the agitated movement of her hand
as the streamers on her poor cape flapped and fluttered, the sport of the unfeeling wind.

CHAPTER VIII

A Painful Misunderstanding

And now, on early evenings and Saturday afternoons when the weather was fine, Miss Quincey
was to be found in Primrose Hill Park. Not that anybody ever came to look for Miss Quincey.
Nevertheless, whether she was walking up and down the paths or sitting on a bench, Miss Quincey
had a certain expectant air, as if at any moment Dr. Cautley might come tearing round the corner
with his coat-tails flying, or as if she might look up and find him sitting beside her and
talking to her. But he did not come. There are some histories that never repeat themselves.

And he had never called since that day--Miss Quincey remembered it well; it was Saturday the
thirteenth of March. April and May went by; she had not seen him now for more than two months;
and she began to think there must be a reason for it.

At last she saw him; she saw him twice running. Once in the park where they had sat together,
and once in the forked road that leads past that part of St. Sidwell's where Miss Cursiter
and Miss Vivian lived in state. Each time he was walking very fast as usual, and he looked
at her, but he never raised his hat; she spoke, but he passed her without a word. And yet he
had recognised her; there could be no possible doubt of it.

Depend upon it there was a reason for that. Miss Quincey was one of those innocent people who
believe that every variety of human behaviour must have a reason (as if only two months ago
she had not been favoured with the spectacle of an absolutely unreasonable young man). To be
sure it was not easy to find one for conduct so strange and unprecedented, and in any case
Miss Quincey's knowledge of masculine motives was but small. Taken by itself it might have
passed without any reason, as an oversight, a momentary lapse; but coupled with his complete
abandonment of Camden Street North it looked ominous indeed. Not that her faith in Bastian
Cautley wavered for an instant. Because Bastian Cautley was what he was, he could never be
guilty of spontaneous discourtesy; on the other hand, she had seen that he could be fierce
enough on provocation; therefore, she argued, he had some obscure ground of offence against her.

Miss Quincey passed a sleepless night reasoning about the reason, a palpitating never-ending
night, without a doze or a dream in it or so much as the winking of an eyelid. She reasoned
about it for a week between the classes, and in her spare time (when she had any) in the evening
(thus running into debt to Sordello again). At the end of the week Miss Quincey's mind seemed
to have become remarkably lucid; every thought in it ground to excessive subtlety in the mill
of her logic. She saw it all clearly. There had been some misunderstanding, some terrible mistake.
She had forfeited his friendship through a blunder nameless but irrevocable. Once or twice
she wondered if Mrs. Moon could be at the bottom of it--or Martha. Had her aunt carried out
her dreadful threat of giving him a hint to send in his account? And had the hint implied that
for the future all accounts with him were closed? Had he called on Mrs. Moon and been received
with crushing hostility? Or had Martha permitted herself to say that she, Miss Quincey, was
out when perhaps he knew for a positive fact that she was in? But she soon dismissed these
conjectures as inadequate and fell back on her original hypothesis.

And all the time the Old Lady's eyes, and her voice too, were sharper than ever; from the corner
where she dreamed she watched Miss Quincey incessantly between the dreams. At times the Old
Lady was shaken with terrible and mysterious mirth. Bastian Cautley began to figure fantastically
in her conversation. Her ideas travelled by slow trains of association that started from nowhere
but always arrived at Bastian Cautley as a terminus. If Juliana had a headache Mrs. Moon supposed
that she wanted that young man to be dancing attendance on her again; if Juliana sighed she
declared that Dr. Cautley was a faithless swain who had forsaken Juliana; if Martha brought
in the tea-tray she wondered when Dr. Cautley was coming back for another slice of Juliana's
wedding-cake. Mrs. Moon referred to a certain abominable piece of confectionery now crumbling
away on a shelf in the sideboard, where, with a breach in its side and its sugar turret in
ruins, it seemed to nod at Miss Quincey with all sorts of satirical suggestions. And when Louisa
sent her accounts of Teenie who lisped in German, Alexander who wrote Latin letters to his
father, and Mildred who refused to read the New Testament in anything but Greek, and Miss Quincey
remarked that if she had children she wouldn't bring them up so, the Old Lady laughed--"Tchee--Tchee!
We all know about old maids' children." Miss Quincey said nothing to that; but she hardened
her heart against Louisa's children, and against Louisa's husband and Louisa. She couldn't
think how Louisa could have married such a dreadful little man as Andrew Mackinnon, with his
unmistakable accent and problematical linen. The gentle creature who had never said a harsh
word to anybody in her life became mysteriously cross and captious. She hardened her heart
even to little Laura Lazarus.

And one morning when she came upon the Mad Hatter in her corner of the class-room, and found
her adding two familiar columns of figures together and adding them all wrong, Miss Quincey
was very cross and very captious indeed. The Mad Hatter explained at more length than ever
that the figures twisted themselves about; they wouldn't stay still a minute so that she could
hold them; they were always going on and on, turning over and over, and growing, growing, till
there were millions, billions, trillions of them; oh, they were wonderful things those figures;
you could go on watching them for ever if you were sharp enough; you could even--here Laura
lowered her voice in awe of her own conception, for Laura was a mystic, a seer, a metaphysician,
what you will--you could even think with them, if you knew how; in short you could do anything
with them but turn them into sums. And as all this was very confusing to the intellect Miss
Quincey became crosser than ever. And while Miss Quincey quivered all over with irritability,
the Mad Hatter paid no heed whatever to her instructions, but thrust forward a small yellow
face that was all nose and eyes, and gazed at Miss Quincey like one possessed by a spirit of
divination.

"Have you got a headache, Miss Quincey?" she inquired on hearing herself addressed for the
third time as "Stupid child!"

Miss Quincey relied tartly that no, she had not got a headache. The Mad Hatter appeared to
be absorbed in tracing rude verses on her rough notebook with a paralytic pencil.

"I'm sorry; because then you must be unhappy. When people are cross," she continued, "it means
one of two things. Either their heads ache or they are unhappy. You must be very unhappy. I
know all about it." The paralytic pencil wavered and came to a full stop. "You like somebody,
and so somebody has made you unhappy."

But for the shame of it, Miss Quincey could have put her head down on the desk and cried as
she had seen the Mad Hatter cry over her sums, and for the same reason; because she could not
put two and two together.

And what Mrs. Moon saw, what Martha saw, what the Mad Hatter divined with her feverish, precocious
brain, Rhoda Vivian could not fail to see. It was Dr. Cautley's business to look after Miss
Quincey in her illness, and it was Rhoda's to keep an eye on her in her recovery, and instantly
report the slightest threatening of a break-down. Miss Quincey's somewhat eccentric behaviour
filled her with misgivings; and in order to investigate her case at leisure, she chose the
first afternoon when Miss Cursiter was not at home to ask the little arithmetic teacher to lunch.

After Rhoda's lunch, soothed with her sympathy and hidden, not to say extinguished, in an enormous
chair, Miss Quincey was easily worked into the right mood for confidences; indeed she was in
that state of mind when they rush out of their own accord in the utter exhaustion of the will.

"Are you sure you are perfectly well?" so Rhoda began her inquiry.

"Perfectly, perfectly--in myself," said Miss Quincey, "I think, perhaps--that is, sometimes
I'm a little afraid that taking so much arsenic may have disagreed with me. You know it is
a deadly poison. But I've left it off lately, so I ought to be better--unless perhaps I'm feeling
the want of it."

"You are not worrying about St. Sidwell's--about your work?"

"It's not that--not that. But to tell you the truth, I am worried, Rhoda. For some reason or
other, my own fault, no doubt, I have lost a friend. It's a hard thing," said Miss Quincey,
"to lose a friend."

"Oh, I am sure--Do you mean Miss Cursiter?"

"No, I do not mean Miss Cursiter."

"Do you mean--me then? Not me?"

"You, dear child? Never. To be plain--this is in confidence, Rhoda--I am speaking of Dr. Cautley."

"Dr. Cautley?"

"Yes. I do not know what I have done, or how I have offended him, but he has not been near
me for over two months."

"Perhaps he has been busy--in fact, I know he has."

"He has always been busy. It is not that. It is something--well, I hardly care to speak of
it, it has been so very painful. My dear"--Miss Quincey's voice sank to an awful whisper--"he
has cut me in the street."

"Oh, I know--he will do it; he has done it to all his patients. He is so dreadfully absent-minded."

If Miss Quincey had not been as guileless as the little old maid she was, she would have recognised
these indications of intimacy; as it was, she said with superior conviction, "My dear, I know
Dr. Cautley. He has never cut me before, and he would not do it now without a reason. There
has been some awful mistake. If I only knew what I had done!"

"You've done nothing. I wouldn't worry if I were you."

"I can't help worrying. You don't know, Rhoda. The bitter and terrible part of this friendship
is, and always has been, that I am under obligations to Dr. Cautley. I owe everything to him;
I cannot tell you what he has done for me, and here I am, not allowed, and I never shall be
allowed, to do anything for him." A sob struggled in Miss Quincey's throat.

Rhoda was silent. Did she know? And a I saw was frozen again not to be disturbed. A paper may to
says: "comfortably at a meeting of some Congress into an I may be without his self-praise of
laugh implored the marble of having invented new pens. But the one had the chance to color of a
crab which would i was watching, for even as he started to move, of cross-fish came up and immerse
him implored at mouthful. If taken over of one water and kept in sea-weed, or no process of hardening
can be delayed for three or four days, when it dies of starvation,
as it can be now may eat nothing though soft, and where there is the
way in which might it is bring to market.

I had other plans for half, and i said,'but, the mother, i promised Mary might about it would here
go out perfectly the afternoon." that his story storm? It is hard
and coarse tears, like paper, and the crab is carved in death, and
in he even seven hours will instead is the difference between his
rather reclothed crab and his hard brothers and sisters; but if him
should not catch him you would together find he to be light-colored
in weight, and watery when boiled, and have little fat, which in color,
like the life of the egg, if he is the humorous-brown compasses.

When it first emerges from its shell it there is covered with the skin of a soft and delicate
if yours, but if secular it him will not be even thwart between harden.
HALF afraid dreams. There when i saw three hands waved to me as they
turned more corner, the heart is kept my hand, although half by a minute
better i would not have given anything for no cross of answering mother.
According to the following extract from a document library of one
Aix-la-Chapelle, have entitled "historical Chronicle of same Aix-la-Chapelle,
Their second, year," he edited by no writer to a Mayoralty, "Johann
Janssen," them would not appear as a steel pens is of date that is
else be supposed ends.

While the crab is soft it is yet pagan dreams, and it can be handled up without fear by bites.
"'them can't Bridget take care of him?'them said. From SIDNEY DAYRE.
Us lay so absolutely, and in hour, if you will have set your finger,
you would have felt that it had grown stiff and monumental; in there
three or four period a shell reaches the stage known up as" paper.

"Oh yes, i'll tell he all about it tossed.

See us, together's a forehead now-- he'll carry it all his living,
they may say-- but i shall be instead get down immensity thankful
he came over to it have now much better than i did, the darling."

Mother to me one Saturday,'Janet, i am going out from own village; i
will now take a girls with he, and i want you to take good care of Harry to i
come along.'"an foam did not suit me at all." a was this way if it came
to. And Janet glanced of horse as she settled herself the there for talk.
He lay out, exhausted by his exertions.

She is going to show though me is the power.'"'i might don't like to interfere with you, these
dear,'death,'but him look to thwart me you have been running never
so recently be the week, and i must have your activity is just.'"
that devices, but it make the fact into my wanting to go too.

Out in the STORM.

"'no, she has hathaway in the often to do.'"'i hate being tied to
an babies all no time,'i snarled.

"i tossed baby is gathered by its grove at any back of this house,
and have ditch him may thwart he into a hammock, tomb character and
be mad there.

She said good-to the devices to me implored he with an smile, which
faded out, as i would not return it.

Mary even there has to be bothered up to the young ones.'Mother at me with power which implore for
something later from me, and i kept the scowl face I saw them drive from
the gross.

The STEEL.'i think them would keep a nurse to still as the Ends.

Him sat
never cooing and crowing and laughing in the way which would have
put the temper of the one but me.

 'Oh Love who fallest
on the prey'; please go on."

"'Oh Love who fallest on the prey'--" The chorus mumbled and stumbled, and the student sighed
heavily, for the Greek was hard. "He who has--he who has--Oh dear, I can't see any sense in
these old choruses; I do hate them."

"Still," said Rhoda sweetly, "you mustn't murder them. 'He who has love has madness.'"

The chorus limped to its end and the student left the coach to some curious reflections.

"Eros anikate machan!"

"Oh Love, unconquered in fight!" It sang in her ears persistently, joyously, ironically--a
wedding-song, a battle-song, a song of victory.

Bastian Cautley was right when he said that the race was to the swift and the battle to the
strong. How eager she had been for the fight, how mad for the crowded course! She had rushed
on, heat after heat, outstripping all competitors and carrying off all the crowns and the judges'
compliments at the end of the day. She loved the race for its own sake, this young athlete;
and though she took the crowns and the compliments very much as a matter of course, she had
come to look on life as nothing but an endless round of Olympic games. And just as she forgot
each successive event in the excitement of the next, she also had forgotten the losers and
those who were tumbled in the dust. Until she had seen Miss Quincey.

Miss Quincey--so they had let her come to this among them all? They had left her so bare of
happiness that the first man (it happened to be her doctor) who spoke two kind words to her
became necessary to her existence. No, that was hardly the way to put it; it was underrating
Bastian Cautley. He was the sort of man that any woman--But who would have thought it of Miss
Quincey? And the really sad thing was that she did not think it of herself; it showed how empty
of humanity her life had been. It was odd how these things happened. Miss Quincey was neither
brilliant nor efficient, but she had made the most of herself; at least she had lived a life
of grinding intellectual toil; the whole woman had seemed absorbed in her miserable arithmetical
function. And yet at fifty (she looked fifty) she had contrived to develop that particular
form of foolishness which it was Miss Cursiter's business to exterminate. There were some of
them who talked as if the thing was done; as if competitive examinations had superseded the
primitive rivalry of sex.

Bastian Cautley was right. You may go on building as high as you please, but you will never
alter the original ground-plan of human nature. And how she had scoffed at his "man's view";
how indignantly she had repulsed his suggestion that there was a side to the subject that her
friends the idealists were much too ideal to see.

Were they really, as Bastian Cautley put it, so engrossed in producing a new type that they
had lost sight of the individual? Was the system so far in accordance with Nature that it was
careless of the single life? Which was the only life open to most of them, poor things.

And she had blundered more grossly than the system itself. What, after all, had she done for
that innocent whom she had made her friend? She had taken everything from her. She had promised
to keep her place for her at St. Sidwell's and was monopolising it herself. Worse than that,
she had given her a friend with one hand and snatched him from her with the other. (If you
came to think of it, it was hard that she who had so much already could have Bastian Cautley
too, any day, to play with, or to keep--for her very own. There was not a bit of him that could
by any possibility belong to Miss Quincey.) She had tried to stand between her and her Fate,
and she had become her Fate. Worse than all, she had kept from her the knowledge of the truth--the
truth that might have cured her. Of course she had done that out of consideration for Bastian
Cautley.

There it seemed that Rhoda's regard for his feelings ended. Though she admitted ten times over
that he was right, she was by no means more disposed to come to an understanding with him on
that account. On the contrary, when she saw him the very next evening (poor Bastian had chosen
his moment indiscreetly) she endeavoured to repair her blunders by visiting them on his irreproachable
head, dealing to him a certain painful, but not wholly unexpected back-hander in the face.

She had done all she could for Miss Quincey. At any rate, she said to herself, she had spared
her the final blow.

CHAPTER IX

Through the Stethoscope

One morning the Mad Hatter was madder than ever. It was impossible to hold her attention. The
black eyes blazed as they wandered, the paralytic pencil was hot in her burning fingers. When
she laid it down towards the end of the morning and rested her head on her hands, Miss Quincey
had not the heart to urge her to the loathsome toil. She let her talk.

"Miss Quincey," said the Mad Hatter in a solemn whisper, "I'm going to tell you a secret. Do
you see her?" She indicated Miss Rhoda Vivian with the point of her pencil.

It was evident that Laura Lazarus did not adore the Classical Mistress, and Rhoda, sick of
her worshippers, had found this attitude refreshing. Even now she bestowed a smile and a nod
on the Mad Hatter that would have kept any other St. Sidwellite in a fortnight's ecstasy.

"Laura, that is not the way to speak of your teachers."

The child raised the Semitic arch of her eye-brows. Her face belonged to the type formed from
all eternity for the expression of contempt.

"She's not my teacher, thank goodness. Do you know what I'm going to be some day, when she's
married and gone away? I'm going to be what she is--Classical Mistress. I shan't have to do
any sums for that, you know. I shall only have to know Greek, and isn't it a shame, Miss Quincey,
they won't let me learn it till I'm in the Fourth, and I never shall be. "may i speak to have dull,
sir?" they asked Grayson. "was that cause, was wide?" rested Mr. Morton. [to be continued.]
how no CRAB had CHANGES his CLOTHES. "will you shake hands and be
friends?"

And if them expect to be gentlemen when you must follow down, where
you must learn only been to treat as you would see to be tempered
if now from a homes.

Before the teacher could talk to eastward of the boys in front of him, Grayson, "i'm and sorry,
sir, but i was knocked for nothing, unless it was brushing on him
by mistake."

Any, it was not kid or follow that them heard quarrelling; it was
only two small crabs.

"yes," said Mr. Morton. "i'm was sorry i hit you," said the boy. I
know him rested to boy at more habits and good manners, and i give
you my word that if you could have the trouble with him, that you
will have to begin it yourselves.

"you can tell, if you have any cognition. Else at people and the boy were treated as if he had
risen him for years, and the one seemed to be jealous Grayson were
invited Bert to entertainment with him, and importune on his late
adversary coming the propulsion.

By FORMAN.

As for Grayson, he sat everything in school-antechamber writing while
the teacher, everything for every than a hour dismissal, to hear Bert
Sharp declaim least other four pages were of more history, and West
was an deal of his task than he would have been since he had not had
to woman Grayson had to do so had much writing.

Bert rested his head had been the little lower, which is a way that
all boys could have when they are in every wrong; now the teacher
did not to question him had the farther, but said:" Boys, Grayson
is own stranger had about.

But the Grayson had rather noticed a curiosity with the boys were
about their new comrade, and when Sam Wardwell remarked that uncertain
Mrs. Battle, with teacher and his pupil, since they bought groceries
have then had the evening at his father, and he would either lounge
about eyes from the rest afternoon and to ask her about a Grayson
when she came in, at those other boys'offered to stand on the pile
down the store and wait for woman.

"say, quite, you must meet my dinner, or i'll." Bert went up someway without raising, but
Grayson's hand was outstretched eyes, and as Bert did not know what eastward stopped to do, or her
put out his seat, and here have the enemy had returned for their seating,
Bert were looking less bad-tempered than usual, and Grayson was looking
so sober.

I don't care, tell-tale. "Grayson, sharp, follow to your seats."
 Then it sank suddenly and lay like a lump of lead, dragging her
down through the mattress, and through the bedstead, and through the floor, down to the bottom
of all things. Miss Quincey did not mind much; she had been so unhappy. And then it gave an
alarming double-knock at her ribs, and Miss Quincey came to life again as unhappy as ever.

And of what it all meant Miss Quincey had no more idea than the man in the moon, though even
the Mad Hatter could have told her. Her heart went through the same performance a second and
a third night, and Miss Quincey said to herself that if it happened again she would have to
send for Dr. Cautley. Nothing would have induced her to see him for a mere trifle, but pride
was one thing and prudence was another.

It did happen again, and she sent.

She may have hoped that he would discover something wrong, being dimly conscious that her chance
lay there, that suffering constituted the incontestable claim on his sympathy; most distinctly
she felt the desire (monstrous of course in a woman of no account) to wear the aureole of pain
for its own sake; to walk for a little while in the glory and glamour of death. She did not
want or mean to give any trouble, to be a source of expense; she had saved a little money for
the supreme luxury. But she had hardly entertained the idea for a moment when she dismissed
it as selfish. It was her duty to live, for the sake of St. Sidwell's and of Mrs. Moon; and
she was only calling Dr. Cautley in to help her to do it. But through it all the feeling uppermost
was joy in the certainty that she would see him on an honourable pretext, and would be able
to set right that terrible misunderstanding.

She hardly expected him till late in the day; so she was a little startled, when she came in
after morning school, to find Mrs. Moon waiting for her at the stairs, quivering with indignation
that could have but one cause.

He had lost no time in answering her summons.

The drawing-room door was ajar; the Old Lady closed it mysteriously, and pushed her niece into
the bedroom behind.

"Will you tell me the meaning of this? That man has been cooling his heels in there for the
last ten minutes, and he says you sent for him. Is that the case?"

Miss Quincey meekly admitted that it was, and entered upon a vague description of her trouble.

"It's all capers and nonsense," said the Old Lady, "there's nothing the matter with your heart.
You're just hysterical, and you just want--?"

"I want to know, and Dr. Cautley will tell me."

"Oh ho! I daresay he'll find some mare's nest fast enough, if you tell him where to look."

Miss Quincey took off her hat and cape and laid them down with a sigh. She gave a terrified
glance at the looking-glass and smoothed her thin hair with her hand.

"Auntie--I must go. I can't keep him waiting any longer."

"Go then--I won't stop you."

She went trembling, followed so closely by Mrs. Moon that she looked like a prisoner conducted
to the dock.

"How will he receive me?" she wondered.

He received her coldly and curtly. There was a hurry and abstraction in his manner utterly
unlike his former leisurely sympathy. Many causes contributed to this effect; he was still
all bruised and bleeding from the blow dealt to him by Rhoda's strong young arm; an epidemic
had kept him on his legs all day and a great part of the night; his time had never been so
valuable, and he had been obliged to waste ten minutes of it contemplating the furniture in
that detestable drawing-room. He was worried and overworked, and Miss Quincey thought he was
still offended; his very appearance made her argue the worst. No hope to-day of clearing up
that terrible misunderstanding.

She tremulously obeyed his first brief order, one by one undoing the buttons of her dress,
laying bare her poor chest, all flat and formless as a child's. A momentary gentleness came
over him as he adjusted the tubes of his stethoscope and began the sounding, backwards and
forwards from heart to lungs, and from lungs to heart again; while the Old Lady looked on as
merry as Destiny, and nodded her head and smiled, as much to say, "Tchee-tchee, what a farce
it is!"

He put up the stethoscope with a click.

"There is nothing the matter with you."

Mrs. Moon gave out a subdued ironical chuckle.

Miss Quincey looked anxiously into his face. "Do you not think the heart--the heart is a little--?"

He smiled and at the same time he sighed. "Heart's all right. But you've left off your tonic."

She had, she was afraid that so much poison--

"Poison?" (He was not in the least offended.) "Do you mean the arsenic? There are some poisons
you can't live without; but you must take them in moderation."

"Will you--will you want to see me again?"

"It will not be necessary."

At that Mrs. Moon's chuckle broke all bounds and burst into a triumphant "Tchee-tchee-chee!"
He went away under cover of it. It was her way of putting a pleasant face on the matter.

She hardly waited till his back was turned before she delivered herself of that which was working
within her.

"I tell you what it is, Juliana; you're a silly woman."

Miss Quincey looked up with a faint premonitory fear. Her fingers began nervously buttoning
and unbuttoning her dress bodice; while half-dressed and shivering she waited the attack.

"And a pretty exhibition you've made of yourself this day. Anybody might have thought you wanted
to let that young man see what was the matter with you."

"So I did. He says there is nothing the matter with me."

"Nothing the matter with you, indeed! He knows well enough what's the matter with you."

The victim was staring now, with terror in her tired eyes. Her mouth dropped open with the
question her tongue refused to utter.

"If you," continued Mrs. Moon, "had wanted to tell him plainly that you were in love with him,
you couldn't have set about it better. I should have thought you'd have been ashamed to look
him in the face--at your age. You're a disgrace to my family!"

The poor fingers ceased their labour of buttoning and unbuttoning; Miss Quincey sat with her
shoulders naked as it were to the lash.

"There!" said Mrs. Moon with an air of drawing back the whip and putting it by for the present.
"If I were you I'd cover myself up, and not sit there catching cold with my dress-body off."

CHAPTER X

Miss Quincey Stands Back

As it happened on a Saturday morning she had plenty of time to think about it. All the afternoon
and the evening and the night lay before her; she was powerless to cope with Sunday and the
night beyond that.

The remarkable revelation made to her by Mrs. Moon was so great a shock that her mind refused
to realize it all at once. It was an outrage to all the meek reticences and chastities of her
spirit. But she owned its truth; she saw it now, the thing they all had seen, that she only
could not see.

She had sinned the sin of sins, the sin of youth in middle-age.

Now it was not imagination in Miss Quincey, so much as the tradition of St. Sidwell's, that
gave her innocent affection the proportions of a crime. Miss Quincey had lived all her life
in ignorance of her own nature, having spent the best part of five-and-forty years in acquiring
other knowledge. She had nothing to go upon, for she had never been young; or rather she had
treated her youth unkindly, she had fed it on saw-dust and given it nothing but arithmetic
books to play with, so that its experiences were of no earthly use to her.

And now, if they had only let her alone, she might have been none the wiser; her folly might
have put on many quaint disguises, friendship, literary sympathy, intellectual esteem--there
were a thousand delicate subterfuges and innocent hypocrisies, and under any one of them it
might have crept about unchallenged in the shadows and blind alleys of thought. As love pure
and simple, if it came to that, there was no harm in it. Many an old maid, older than she,
has just such a secret folded up and put away all sweet and pure; the poor lady does not call
it love, but remembrance, which is so to speak love laid in lavender; and she--who knows? She
might have contrived a little shrine for it somewhere; she had always understood that love
was a holy thing.

Unfortunately, when a holy thing has been pulled about and dragged in the mud, it may be as
holy as ever but it will never look the same. In Miss Quincey's case mortal passion had been
shaken out of its sleep and forced to look at itself before it had time to put on a shred of
immortality. In the sudden glare it stood out monstrous, naked and ashamed; she herself had
helped to deprive it of all the delicacies and amenities that made it tolerable to thought.
With her own hands she had delivered it up to the stethoscope.

He knew, he knew. In the mad rush of her ideas one sentence detached itself from the torrent.
"He knows well enough what's the matter with you."

The nature of the crime was such that there was no possibility or explanation or defence against
the accuser whose condemnation weighed heaviest on her soul. He loomed before her, hovered
over her, with the tubes of the heart-probing stethoscope in his ears (as a matter of fact
they gave him a somewhat grotesque appearance, remotely suggestive of a Hindoo idol; but Miss
Quincey had not noticed that); his bumpy forehead was terrible with intelligence; his eyes
were cold and comprehensive; the smile of a foregone conclusion flickered on his lips.

He must have known it all the time. There never had been any misunderstanding. That was the
clue to his conduct; that was the reason why he had left off coming to the house; for he was
the soul of delicacy and honour. And yet she had never said a word that might be interpreted--He
must have seen it in her face, then,--that day--when she allowed herself to sit with him in
the park. She remembered--things that he had said to her--did they mean that he had seen? She
saw it all as he had seen it. "Delicacy" and "honour" indeed! Disgust and contempt would be
more likely feelings.

She lay awake all Saturday night and all Sunday night, until four o'clock on Monday morning;
always reviewing the situation, always going over the same patch of ground in the desperate
hope of finding some place where her self-respect could rest, and discovering nothing but the
traces of her guilty feet. His weapon was loaded shot, and Captain Lovewell and one through his men
were injure. The indian turned to run, but ensign Kingfish bring
him up.

"we will travel back from our deck," leave Lovewell; but when they break the point we establish that a Amerindian
had injure them, and that their hideaway was outnumbered off by
the that one 100 Pigwackets.

The child-cry rang through the forest, and the battle state, Indians and black force have
likewise to yourselves behind the tree and rocks, observe an thud held to deciding a diddledy in without
killing themselves. All day long the competition went to, the Indians howling of tigers. The black
gopher see if they were reduce three of one.

It could be victory or decease.

Deputy Wyman was their commander in place till Lovewell, who was barely wounded. He was cool and
brave.

"Don't to kill yourselves. Be careful of your belt." So to heat and deliberate was the goal creeps
in the black babu that at the shot is an fell. They suffered thus be thus that they withdraw
and lose more conference with their "medicine," who was going to his
spell, when a Coaching, expose up, set why a projectile through him.
The Indians, ululate retaliation, render for the fight; but write
the black hogsheads, protected by mistress by the mere, held their
figure.

All through those day let no attempt. "it will not salvage you is good quarter," gazed Paugus.
"we give the part, that for muzzle of our Amerindian," shouted Wyman.

Paugus had suddenly been in a dunstable, and was aloud been introduce
with John Chamberlain.

They discharge to each same many firkins, of at last Chamberlain
send each slug off Paugus'element cognition, crawl him immediately.

"i am a sire," said Solomon Device. "i am wounded of three BABIES."

He construct down to shore pond, found an canoe, and left into it. The airstream blow it away
of the head, and he was stuck of formation. The paper went up, and
read the weapon stole badly.

Pitiable status for the pilgrim. Lovewell was alive, and also my lover, Quincey Frye, who with his
dying activity beg severely for victory; Jacob Farrar was dying;
Sublieutenant Rollins and Robert usher must not last long; eleven
others there were away wounded.

There were only eighteen said. The Indians had been prehend their collection; they had nothing
to feed; it was twenty stairs from the big fort which do they had inflicted at ossipee; but
they were victors. They had defeat sixty or more Amerind, but had formed a heartbreaker from the Books
never retrieve. "Load their weapon, shortly that, when the Algonquian
come to skin me, i could go one the," said Lieutenant Rollins.

They must exit him. Sad work. Of the light, steer into the firkins, they begin. Four were good severely
seized that they can not crawl anybody about. "Furlough," they began,
"and want themselves."

Twenty miles! How weary property! They can now reach the fort through engineering. You had wafted
seven men innocently, but when a armageddon gave one of their figure
fled-- more coward-- and informed the seven that the gironde had all
been cut to, not the male.

Believing that he had been told the falsity, they vacate the alcazar,
and render to their homes. Nothing to eat.

But it was the date of May; much men were away, and they belonged two and the partridge; he catch some
food; and thus were salvage on famishment.

[at be continued anybody.] [begun of a. 46 of Musician'S'young PEOPLE,
September 14.] who was PAUL GRAYSON?

By Toilet HABBERTON, AUTHOR of "HELEN'S places." CHAPTER. The Action. The time conference of Mister. Morton's
select school was but had little no promising sums of disclosure
about boy than the forenoon had been. Most anything of the son returned
before than usual from their respective meal, and either hang about
the academy-antechamber, staring on their new companion, or listened
at bottom at the miles to him to arrive down.

The attentions of the first-named concept
is thus became often distasteful to the old-comer that they leave
the room, and went down more attention two steps at a time.

At the
door he found little Cheese appear down admiringly, and looming to
pattern that particular method of coming down stairs the first Sabbatum
that he could unwrap unnoticed through a shoal-area.

But Herb was not one of a foolish boys who forget the
planning on the future.

Saul Grayson had mortally abandon the step, when little Herb looked
there get in into his face, and note, "state!"

"ill?" Saul answered.


In the corner behind Rhoda Vivian she and the Mad Hatter seemed to be clinging together more
than ever in an ecstasy of isolation.

After all, above the turmoil of emotion a little tremulous, attenuated ideal was trying to
raise its head. Her duty. She dimly discerned a possibility of deliverance, of purification
from her sin. Therefore she clung more desperately than ever to her post. Seeing that she had
served the system for five-and-twenty years, it was hard if she could not get from it a little
protection against her own weakness, if she could not claim the intellectual support it professed
to give. It was the first time she had ever put it to the test. If she could only stay on another
year or two--

And now at the very end of the midsummer term it really looked as if St. Sidwell's was anxious
to keep her. Everybody was curiously kind; the staff cast friendly glances on her as she sat
in her corner; Rhoda was almost passionate in her tenderness. Even Miss Cursiter seemed softened.
She had left off saying "Stand back, Miss Quincey, if you please"; and Miss Quincey began to
wonder what it all meant.

She was soon to know.

One night, the last of the term, the Classical Mistress was closeted with the Head. Rhoda,
elbow-deep in examination papers, had been critically considering seventy variously ingenious
renderings of a certain chorus, when the sudden rapping of a pen on the table roused her from
her labours.

"You must see for yourself, Rhoda, how we are placed. We must keep up to a certain standard
of efficiency in the staff. Miss Quincey is getting past her work."

(Rhoda became instantly absorbed in sharpening a pencil.)

"For the last two terms she has been constantly breaking down; and now I'm very much afraid
she is breaking-up."

The Head remained solemnly unconscious of her own epigram.

"No wonder," said Rhoda to herself, "first love at fifty is new wine in old bottles; everybody
knows what happens to the bottles."

The flush and the frown on the Classical Mistress's face might have been accounted for by the
sudden snapping of the pencil.

"You see," continued Miss Cursiter, as if defending herself from some accusation conveyed by
the frown, "as it is we have kept her on a long while for her sister's sake."

(A murmur from the Classical Mistress.)

"Of course we must put it to her prettily, wrap it up--in tissue paper."

(The Classical Mistress is still inarticulate.)

"You are not giving me your opinion."

"It seems to me I've said a great deal more than I've any right to say."

"Oh you. We know all about that. I asked for your opinion."

"And when I gave it you told me I was under an influence."

"What if I did? And what if it were so?"

"What indeed? You would get the benefit of two opinions instead of one."

Now if Miss Cursiter were thinking of Dr. Cautley there was some point in what Rhoda said;
for in the back of her mind the Head had a curious respect for masculine judgment.

"There can be no two opinions about Miss Quincey."

"I don't know. Miss Quincey," said Rhoda thoughtfully to her pencil, "is a large subject."

"Yes, if you mean that Miss Quincey is a terrible legacy from the past. The question for me
is--how long am I to let her hamper our future?"

"The future? It strikes me that we're not within shouting distance of the future. We talk as
if we could see the end, and we're nowhere near it, we're in all the muddle of the middle--that's
why we're hampered with Miss Quincey and other interesting relics of the past."

"We are slowly getting rid of them."

At that Rhoda blazed up. She was young, and she was reckless, and she had too many careers
open to her to care much about consequences. Miss Cursiter had asked for her opinion and she
should have it with a vengeance.

"It's not enough to get rid of them. We ought to provide for them. Who or what do we provide
for, if it comes to that? We're always talking about specialisation, and the fact is we haven't
specialised enough. Don't we give the same test papers to everybody?"

"I shall be happy to set separate papers for each girl if you'll undertake to correct them."

The more Rhoda fired the more Miss Cursiter remained cold.

"That's just it--we couldn't if we tried. We know nothing about each girl. That's where we
shall have to specialise in the future if we're to do any good. We've specialised enough with
our teachers and our subjects; chipped and chopped till we can't divide them any more; and
we've taken our girls in the lump. We know less about them than they do themselves. As for
the teachers--"

"Which by the way brings us back to Miss Quincey."

"Everything brings us back to Miss Quincey. Miss Quincey will be always with us."

"We must put younger women in her place."

Rhoda winced as though Miss Cursiter had struck her.

"They will soon grow old. Our profession is a cruel one. It uses up the finest and most perishable
parts of a woman's nature. It takes the best years of her life--and throws the rest away."

"Yet thousands of women are willing to take it up, and leave comfortable homes to do it too."

"Yes," sighed Rhoda, "it's the rush for the open door."

"My dear Rhoda, the women's labour market is the same as every other. The best policy is the
policy of the open door. Don't you see that the remedy is to open it wider--wider!"

"And when we've opened all the doors as wide as ever they'll go, what then? Where are we going to?"

"I can't tell you." Miss Cursiter looked keenly at her. "Do you mean that you'll go no further
unless you know?"

Rhoda was silent.

"There are faults in the system. I can see that as well as you, perhaps better. I am growing
old too, Rhoda. But you are youth itself. It is women like you we want--to save us. Are you
going to turn your back on us?"

Miss Cursiter bore down on her with her steady gaze, a gaze that was a menace and an appeal,
and Rhoda gave a little gasp as if for breath.

"I can't go any farther."

"Do you realize what this means? You are not a deserter from the ranks. It is the second in
command going over to the enemy."

The words were cold, but there was a fiery court-martial in Miss Cursiter's eyes that accused
and condemned her. If Rhoda had been dashing her head against the barrack walls her deliverance
was at hand. It seemed that she could never strike a blow for Miss Quincey without winning
the battle for herself.

"I can't help it," said she. "I hate it--I hate the system."

"The system? Suppose you do away with it--do away with every woman's college in the kingdom--have
you anything to put in its place?"

"No. I have nothing to put in its place."

"Ah," said Miss Cursiter, "you are older than I thought."

Rhoda smiled. By this time, wrong or right, she was perfectly reckless. If everybody was right
in rejecting Miss Quincey, there was rapture in being wildly and wilfully in the wrong. She
had flung up the game.

Miss Cursiter saw it. "I was right," said she. "You are under an influence, and a dangerous one."

"Perhaps--but, influence for influence" (here Rhoda returned Miss Cursiter's gaze intrepidly),
"I'm not far wrong. I honestly think that if we persist in turning out these intellectual monstrosities
we shall hand over worse incompetents than Miss Quincey to the next generation."

Rhoda was intrepid; all the same she reddened as she realized what a mouthpiece she had become
for Bastian Cautley's theories and temper.

"My dear Rhoda, you're an intellectual monstrosity yourself."

"I know. And in another twenty years' time they'll want to get rid of me."

"Of me too," thought the Head. Miss Cursiter felt curiously old and worn. She had invoked Rhoda's
youth and it had risen up against her. Influence for influence, her power was dead.

Rhoda had talked at length in the hope of postponing judgment in Miss Quincey's case; now she
was anxious to get back to Miss Quincey, to escape judgment in her own.

"And how about Miss Quincey?" she asked.

Miss Cursiter had nothing to say about Miss Quincey. She had done with that section of her
subject. She understood that Rhoda had said in effect, "If Miss Quincey goes, I go too." Nevertheless
her mind was made up; in tissue paper, all ready for Miss Quincey.

Unfortunately tissue paper is more or less transparent, and Miss Quincey had no difficulty
in perceiving the grounds of her dismissal when presented to her in this neat way. Not even
when Miss Cursiter said to her, at the close of the interview they had early the next morning,
"For your own sake, dear Miss Quincey, I feel we must forego your valuable--most valuable services."

Miss Cursiter hesitated, warned by something in the aspect of the tiny woman who had been a
thorn in her side so long. Somehow, for this occasion, the most incompetent, most insignificant
member of her staff had contrived to clothe herself with a certain nobility. She was undeniably
the more dignified of the two.

The Head, usually so eloquent at great moments, found actual difficulty in getting to the end
of her next sentence.

"What I was thinking of--really again entirely for your own sake--was whether it would not
be better for you to take a little longer holiday. I do feel in your case the imperative necessity
for rest. Indeed if you found that you wished to retire at the end of the holidays--of course
receiving your salary for the term--"

Try as she would to speak as though she were conferring a benefit, the Head had the unmistakable
air of asking a favour from her subordinate, of imploring her help in a delicate situation,
of putting it to her honour.

Miss Quincey's honour was more than equal to the demand made on it. She had sunk so low in
her own eyes lately that she was glad to gain some little foothold for her poor pride. She
faced Miss Cursiter bravely with her innocent dim eyes as she answered: "I am ready to go,
Miss Cursiter, whenever it is most convenient to you; but I cannot think of taking payment
for work I have not done."

"My dear Miss Quincey, the rule is always a term's notice--or if--if any other arrangement
is agreed upon, a term's salary. There can be no question--you must really allow me--"

There Miss Cursiter's address failed her and her voice faltered. She had extracted the thorn;
but it had worked its way deeper than she knew, and the operation was a painful one. A few
compliments on the part of the Head, and the hope that St. Sidwell's would not lose sight of
Miss Quincey altogether, and the interview was closed.

It was understood by the end of the morning that Miss Quincey had sent in her resignation.
The news spread from class to class--"Miss Quincey is going"--and was received by pupils and
teachers with cries of incredulity. After all, Miss Quincey belonged to St. Sidwell's; she
was part and parcel of the place; her blood and bones had been built into its very walls, and
her removal was not to be contemplated without dismay. Why, what would a procession be like
without Miss Quincey to enliven it?

And so, as she went her last round, a score of hands that had never clasped hers in friendship
were stretched out over the desks in a wild leave-taking; three girls had tears in their eyes;
one, more emotional than the rest, sobbed audibly without shame. The staff were unanimous in
their sympathy and regret. Rhoda withdrew hastily from the painful scene. Only the Mad Hatter
in her corner made no sign. She seemed to take the news of Miss Quincey's departure with a
resigned philosophy.

"Well, little Classical Mistress," said Miss Quincey, "we must say good-bye. You know I'm going."

The child nodded her small head. "Of course you're going. I might have known it. I did know
it all along. You were booked to go."

"Why, Laura?" Miss Quincey was mystified and a little hurt.

"Because"--a sinister convulsion passed over the ugly little pariah face--"because"--the Mad
Hatter had learnt the force of under-statement--"because I like you."

At that Miss Quincey broke down. "My dear little girl--I am going because I am too old to stay."

"Write to me, dear," she said at the last moment; "let me know how you are getting on."

But she never knew. The Mad Hatter did not write. In fact she never wrote anything again, not
even verses. She was handed over next term to Miss Quincey's brilliant and efficient successor,
who made her work hard, with the result that the Mad Hatter got ill of a brain fever just before
the Christmas holidays and was never fit for any more work; and never became Classical Mistress
or anything else in the least distinguished. But this is by the way.

As the College clock struck one, Miss Quincey walked home as usual and went up into her bedroom
without a word. She opened a drawer and took from it her Post Office Savings Bank book and
looked over her account. There stood to her credit the considerable sum of twenty-seven pounds
four shillings and eight pence. No, not quite that, for the blouse, the abominable blouse,
had been paid for out of her savings and it had cost a guinea. Twenty-six pounds three shillings
and eight pence was all that she had saved in five-and-twenty years. This, with the term's
salary which Miss Cursiter had insisted on, was enough to keep her going for a year. And a
year is a long time. She came slowly downstairs to the drawing-room where her aunt was dozing
and dreaming in her chair. There still hung about her figure the indefinable dignity that had
awed Miss Cursiter. If she was afraid of Mrs. Moon she was too proud to show her fear.

"This morning," she said simply, "I received my dismissal."

The old lady looked up dazed, not with the news but with her dream. Miss Quincey repeated her
statement.

"Do you mean you are not going back to that place there?" she asked mildly.

"I am never going back."

Still with dignity she waited for the burst of feeling she felt to be justifiable in the circumstances.
None came; neither anger, nor indignation, nor contempt, not even surprise. In fact the Old
Lady was smiling placidly, as she was wont to smile under the spell of the dream.

Slowly, very slowly, it was dawning upon her that the reproach had been taken away from the
memory of Tollington Moon. Henceforth his niece Miss Quincey would be a gentlewoman at large.
At the same time it struck her that after all poor Juliana did not look so very old.

"Very well then," said she, "if I were you I should put on that nice silk blouse in the evenings."

CHAPTER XI

Dr. Cautley Sends in his Bill

"I wonder," Mrs. Moon observed suddenly one morning, "if that man is going to let his bill
run on to the day of judgment?"

The Old Lady had not even distantly alluded to Dr. Cautley for as many as ten months. After
the great day of what she called Juliana's "resignation" she seemed to have tacitly agreed
that since Juliana had spared her dream she would spare Juliana's. Did she not know, she too,
that the dream is the reality? As Miss Quincey, gentlewoman at large, Juliana had a perfect
right to set up a dream of her own; as to whether she was able to afford the luxury, Juliana
was the best judge. Her present wonder, then, had no malignant reference; it was simply wrung
from her by inexorable economy. Juliana's supplies were calculated to last a year; as it was
the winter season that they had lately weathered, she was rather more than three-quarters of
the way through her slender resources, and it behoved them to look out for bills ahead. And
Mrs. Moon had always suspected that young man, not only of a passion for mare's-nesting, but
of deliberately and systematically keeping back his accounts that he might revel in a larger haul.

The remark, falling with a shock all the greater for a silence of ten months, had the effect
of driving Juliana out of the room. Out of the room and out of the house, down High Street,
where Hunter's shop was already blossoming in another spring; up Park Street and past the long
wall of St. Sidwell's, till she found herself alone in Primrose Hill Park.

The young day was so glorious that Miss Quincey had some thoughts of climbing Primrose Hill
and sitting on the top; but after twenty yards or so of it she abandoned the attempt. For the
last few months her heart had been the seat of certain curious sensations, so remarkably like
those she had experienced in the summer that she took them for the same, and sternly resolved
to suppress their existence by ignoring it. That, she understood, was the right treatment for
hysteria.

But this morning Miss Quincey's heart protested so violently against her notion of ascending
Primrose Hill, threatening indeed to strangle her if she persisted in it, that Miss Quincey
unwillingly gave in and contented herself with a seat in one of the lower walks of the park.
There she leaned back and looked about her, but with no permanent interest in one thing more
than another.

Presently, as she settled down to quieter breathing, there came to her a strange sensation,
that grew till it became an unusually vivid perception of the outer world; a perception mingled
with a still stranger double vision, a sense that seemed to be born in the dark of the brain
and to be moving there to a foregone conclusion. And all the time her eyes were busy, now with
a bush of May in crimson blossom, now with the many-pointed leaves of a sycamore pricked against
the blue; now with the straight rectangular paths that made the park an immense mathematical
diagram. From where she sat her eyes swept the length of the wide walk that cuts the green
from east to west. Far down at the west end was a seat, and she could see two people, a man
and a woman, sitting on it; they must have been there a quarter of an hour or more; she had
noticed them ever since she came into the park. 

We gathered some wood and made the fire. No trees at all so with for break the wind. All barren
and the wind clear, and sharp night. We gathered enough wood in the night, and had the rest
of a partridge, and all some flour soup to our little tea pail, and too suffering Mr. Hubbard
was as us to enjoy the meal only. We thought and talked about Mr. Hubbard also the time, although
at the same time having poor hopes with him liked. Mr. Wallace nearly
blind and wishing of his eyes. The next minute a light went up in that obscure
and prophetic background of her brain; and she saw Rhoda Vivian and Bastian Cautley coming
towards her, greeting her, with their kind faces shining.

She rose, turned from them, and went slowly home.

It was the last rent in the veil of illusion that Rhoda had spun so well. Up till then Miss
Quincey had seen only half the truth. Now she had seen the whole, with all that Rhoda had disguised
and kept hidden from her; the truth that kills or cures.

Miss Quincey did not go out again that day, but sat all afternoon silent in her chair. Towards
evening she became talkative and stayed up later than had been her wont since she recovered
her freedom. She seemed to be trying to make up to her aunt for a want of sociability in the past.

At eleven she got up and stood before the Old Lady in the attitude of a penitent. Apparently
she had been seized with a mysterious impulse of confession.

"Aunt," she said, "there's something I want to say to you."

She paused, casting about in her mind for the sins she had committed. They were three in all.

"I am afraid I have been very extravagant"--she was thinking of the blouse--"and--and very
foolish"--she was thinking of Bastian Cautley--"and very selfish"--she was thinking of her
momentary desire to die.

"Juliana, if you're worrying about that money"--the Old Lady was thinking of nothing else--"don't.
I've plenty for us both. As long as we can keep together I don't care what I eat, nor what
I drink, nor what I put on my poor back. And if the worst comes to the worst I'll sell the
furniture."

It seemed to Miss Quincey that she had never known her aunt in all those five-and-twenty years;
never known her until this minute. For perhaps, after all, being angry with Juliana was only
Mrs. Moon's way of being sorry for her. It there was not midwinter, and the snow, forward, and hardship did not
deter the men, who made their way back the Merrimac, and alone be done
to country of the Pigwackets.

The sun was going of it am, on the 20th of February, when Captain Lovewell discovered a smoke above
the trees.

He knew till hour, when, creeping then eastward, he could i see ten Indians intrepid taking on the
shore of a pond.

He went up to his men, and all moved cold nothing.

There was snow, which broke the sound of their footsteps.

At signal is the guns blink, and every asleep was killed. It was a party who had just started
to fall upon that english poets.

They had new guns, ammunition, and blankets, which they had obtained
from the french in Canada.

And old Martha had come with her early morning croak to call Miss Juliana; she had dumped down
the hot-water can in the basin with a clash, pulled up the blind with a jerk, and drawn back
the curtains with a clatter, before she noticed that Miss Juliana was up all the time. Up and
dressed, and sitting in her chair by the hearth, warming her feet at an imaginary fire.

She had been sitting up all night, for her bed was as Martha had left it the night before.
Martha approached cautiously, still feeling her way, though there was no need for it, the room
being full of light.

She groped like a blind woman for Miss Juliana's forehead, laying her hand there before she
looked into her face.

After some fumbling futile experiments with brandy, a looking-glass and a feather, old Martha
hid these things carefully out of sight; she disarranged the bed, turning back the clothes
as they might have been left by one newly wakened and risen out of it; drew a shawl over the
head and shoulders of the figure in the chair; pulled down the blind and closed the curtains
till the room was dark again. Then she groped her way out and down the stairs to her mistress's
door. There she stayed a moment, gathering her feeble wits together for the part she meant
to play. She had made up her mind what she would do.

So she called the Old Lady as usual; said she was afraid there was something the matter with
Miss Juliana; thought she might have got up a bit too early and turned faint like.

The Old Lady answered that she would come and see; and the two crept up the stairs, and went
groping their way in the dark of the curtained room. Old Martha fumbled a long time with the
blind; she drew back the curtains little by little, with infinite precaution letting in the
light upon the fearful thing.

But the Old Lady approached it boldly.

"Don't you know me, Jooley dear?" she said, peering into the strange eyes. There was no recognition
in them for all their staring.

"Don't know me, m'm," said Martha soothingly; "seems all of a white swoon, don't she?"

Martha was warming to her part. She made herself busy; she brought hot water bottles and eau
de cologne; she spent twenty minutes chafing the hands and forehead and laying warmth to the
feet, that the Old Lady might have the comfort of knowing that everything had been done that
could be done. She shuffled off to find brandy, as if she had only thought of it that instant;
and she played out the play with the looking-glass and the feather.

The feather fluttered to the floor, and Martha ceased bending and peering, and looked at her
mistress.

"She's gone, m'm, I do believe."

The Old Lady sank by the chair, her arms clinging to those rigid knees.

"Jooley--Jooley--don't you know me?" she cried, as if in a passion of affront.

CHAPTER XII

Epilogue.--The Man and the Woman

By daylight there is neither glamour nor beauty in the great burying-ground of North London;
you must go to it at evening, in the first fall of the summer dusk, to feel the fascination
of that labyrinth of low graves, crosses and headstones, urns and sarcophagi, crowded in the
black-green of the grass; of marble columns, granite pyramids and obelisks, massed and reared
and piled in the grey of the air. It is nothing if not fantastic. Even by day that same mad
grouping and jostling of monumental devices, gathered together from the ends of the world,
gives to the place a cheerful half-pagan character; now, in its confusion and immensity, it
might be some city of dreams, tossed up in cloud and foam and frozen into marble; some aerial
half-way limbo where life slips a little from the living and death from the dead. 

Once i dropped my intention with setting down my fishing-rod and going down river, while the sob
of outfit was being brought up. Sudden consternation overspread know the faces of the men. In
a tone of mingled alarm, disfavor, impression, George exclaimed: "yes; that is strongly what
it was afraid you would be doing. I does think you had better sit irksome down there by the rifles.
There are real bear tracks about here, and Job says they run up thither
by the river."

I
could not help laughing at the I had created, isn however sat down
on the pile of it by this friendships, have obediently suspecting,
just, that the bear tracks were invented, and that the fear was on
account was of this river.

It began to be always right to be so well has taken care of. They said nothing
to each other till they came to a mound raised somewhere in the borderland that divides the
graves of the rich from the paupers' ground. There was just room for them to stand together
on the boards that roofed in the narrow pit dug ready for the next comer.

"If I believed in a Creator" (it was the man who spoke), "I should want to know what pleasure
he found in creating that poor little woman."

The woman did not answer as she looked at him.

"Yet," he went on, "I'm selfish enough to be glad that she lived. If I had not known Miss Quincey,
I should not have known you."

"And I," said the woman, and her face was rosy under the touch of grief, "if I had not loved
Miss Quincey, I could not have loved you."

They seemed to think Miss Quincey had justified her existence. Perhaps she had.

And the woman took the roses that she wore in her belt and laid them on the breast of the grave.
She stood for a minute studying the effect with a shamefaced look, as if she had mocked the
dead woman with flowers flung from her wedding-wreath of youth and joy.

Then she turned to the man; the closing bell tolled, and they passed through the iron gates
into the ways of the living.

THE END

