Starting on a march with a large mixed caravan, consisting of 1 corporal and 9 privates, Hottentots--1
jemadar and 25 privates, Beluchs--1 Arab Cafila Bashi and 75 freed slaves--1 Kirangozi, or
leader, and 100 negro porters--12 mules untrained, 3 donkeys, and 22 goats--one could hardly
expect to find everybody in his place at the proper time for breaking ground; but, at the same
time, it could hardly be expected that ten men, who had actually received their bounty-money,
and had sworn fidelity, should give one the slip the very first day. Such, however, was the
case. Ten out of the thirty-six given by the Sultan ran away, because they feared that the
white men, whom they believed to be cannibals, were only taking them into the interior to eat
them; and one pagazi, more honest than the freed men, deposited his pay upon the ground, and
ran away too. Go we must, however; for one desertion is sure to lead to more; and go we did.
Our procession was in this fashion: The Kirangozi, with a load on his shoulder, led the way,
flag in hand, followed by the pagazis carrying spears of bows and arrows in their hands, and
bearing their share of the baggage in the shape either of bolster-shaped loads of cloth and
beads covered with matting, each tied into the fork of a three-pronged stick, or else coils
of brass or copper wire tied in even weights to each end of sticks which they laid on the shoulder;
then helter-skelter came the Wanguana, carrying carbines in their hands, and boxes, bundles,
tents, cooking-pots--all the miscellaneous property--on their heads; next the Hottentots, dragging
the refractory mules laden with ammunition-boxes, but very lightly, to save the animals for
the future; and, finally, Sheikh Said and the Beluch escort; while the goats, sick women, and
stragglers, brought up the rear. From first to last, some of the sick Hottentots rode the hospital
donkeys, allowing the negroes to tug their animals; for the smallest ailment threw them broadcast
on their backs. In a little while we cleared from the rich gardens, mango clumps, and cocoa-but
trees, which characterise the fertile coast-line. After traversing fields of grass well clothed
with green trees, we arrived at the little settlement of Bomani, where camp was formed, and
everybody fairly appointed to his place. The process of camp-forming would be thus: Sheikh
Said, with Bombay under him, issues cloths to the men for rations at the rate of one-fourth
load a-day (about 15 lb.) amongst 165; the Hottentots cook our dinners and their own, or else
lie rolling on the ground overcome with fatigue; the Beluchs are supposed to guard the camp,
but prefer gossip and brightening their arms. Some men are told off to look after the mules,
donkeys, and goats, whilst out grazing; the rest have to pack the kit, pitch our tents, cut
boughs for huts, and for fencing in the camp--a thing rarely done, by-the-by. After cooking,
when the night has set it, the everlasting dance begins, attended with clapping of hands and
jingling small bells strapped to the legs--the whole being accompanied by a constant repetition
of senseless words, which stand in place of the song to the negroes; for song they have none,
being mentally incapacitated for musical composition, though as timists they are not to be
surpassed.

What remains to be told is the daily occupation of Captain Grant, myself, and our private servants.
Beginning at the foot: Rahan, a very peppery little negro, who had served in a British man-of-war
at the taking of Rangoon, was my valet; and Baraka, who had been trained much in the same manner,
but had seen engagements at Multan, was Captain Grant's. They both knew Hindustani; but while
Rahan's services at sea had been short, Baraka had served nearly all his life with Englishmen--was
the smartest and most intelligent negro I ever saw--was invaluable to Colonel Rigby as a detector
of slave-traders, and enjoyed his confidence completely--so much so, that he said, on parting
with him, that he did not know where he should be able to find another man to fill his post.
These two men had now charge of our tents and personal kit, while Baraka was considered the
general of the Wanguana forces, and Rahan a captain of ten.

My first occupation was to map the country. This is done by timing the rate of march with a
watch, taking compass-bearings along the road, or on any conspicuous marks--as, for instance,
hills off it--and by noting the watershed--in short, all topographical objects. On arrival
in camp every day came the ascertaining, by boiling a thermometer, of the altitude of the station
above the sea-level; of the latitude of the station by the meridian altitude of the star taken
with a sextant; and of the compass variation by azimuth. Occasionally there was the fixing
of certain crucial stations, at intervals of sixty miles or so, by lunar observations, or distances
of the moon either from the sun or from certain given stars, for determining the longitude,
by which the original-timed course can be drawn out with certainty on the map by proportion.
Should a date be lost, you can always discover it by taking a lunar distance and comparing
it with the Nautical Almanac, by noting the time when a star passes the meridian if your watch
is right, or by observing the phases of the moon, or her rising or setting, as compared with
the Nautical Almanac. The rest of my work, besides sketching and keeping a diary, which was
the most troublesome of all, consisted in making geological and zoological collections. With
Captain Grant rested the botanical collections and thermometrical registers. He also boiled
one of the thermometers, kept the rain-gauge, and undertook the photography; but after a time
I sent the instruments back, considering this work too severe for the climate, and he tried
instead sketching with watercolours--the results of which form the chief part of the illustrations
in this book. The rest of our day went in breakfasting after the march was over--a pipe, to
prepare us for rummaging the fields and villages to discover their contents for scientific
purposes--dinner close to sunset, and tea and pipe before turning in at night.

A short stage brought us to Ikamburu, included in the district of Nzasa, where there is another
small village presided over by Phanze Khombe la Simba, meaning Claw of Lion. He, immediately
after our arrival, sent us a present of a basket of rice, value one dollar, of course expecting
a return--for absolute generosity is a thing unknown to the negro. Not being aware of the value
of the offering, I simply requested the Sheikh to give him four yards of American sheeting,
and thought no more about the matter, until presently I found the cloth returned. The "Sultan"
could not think of receiving such a paltry present from me, when on the former journey he got
so much; if he showed this cloth at home, nobody would believe him, but would say he took much
more and concealed it from his family, wishing to keep all his goods to himself. I answered
that my footing in the country had been paid for on the last journey, and unless he would accept
me as any other common traveller, he had better walk away; but the little Sheikh, a timid,
though very gentlemanly creature, knowing the man, and dreading the consequences of too high
a tone, pleaded for him, and proposed as a fitting hongo, one dubuani, one sahari, and eight
yards merikani, as the American sheeting is called here. This was pressed by the jemadar, and
acceded to by myself, as the very utmost I could afford. Lion's Claw, however, would not accept
it; it was too far below the mark of what he got last time. He therefore returned the cloths
to the Sheikh, as he could get no hearing from myself, and retreated in high dudgeon, threatening
the caravan with a view of his terrible presence on the morrow. Meanwhile the little Sheikh,
who always carried a sword fully two-thirds the length of himself, commenced casting bullets
for his double-barrelled rifle, ordered the Wanguana to load their guns, and came wheedling
up to me for one more cloth, as it was no use hazarding the expedition's safety for four yards
of cloth. This is a fair specimen of tax-gathering, within twelve miles of the coast, by a
native who claims the protection of Zanzibar. We shall soon see what they are further on. The
result of experience is, that, ardent as the traveller is to see the interior of Africa, no
sooner has he dealings with the natives, than his whole thoughts tend to discovering some road
where he won't be molested, or a short cut, but long march, to get over the ground.

Quite undisturbed, we packed and marched as usual, and soon passed Nzasa close to the river,
which is only indicated by a line of trees running through a rich alluvial valley. We camped
at the little settlement of Kizoto, inhospitably presided over by Phanze Mukia ya Nyani or
Monkey's Tail, who no sooner heard of our arrival than he sent a demand for his "rights." One
dubani was issued, with orders than no one need approach me again, unless he wanted to smell
my powder. Two taxes in five miles was a thing unheard of; and I heard no more about the matter,
until Bombay in the evening told me how Sheikh Said, fearing awkward consequences, had settled
to give two dubuani, one being taken from his own store. Lion's Claw also turned up again,
getting his cloths of yesterday--one more being added from the Sheikh's stores--and he was
then advised to go off quietly, as I was a fire-eater whom nobody dared approach after my orders
had been issued. This was our third march in Uzaramo; we had scarcely seen a man of the country,
and had no excessive desire to do so.

Deflecting from the serpentine course of the Kingani a little, we crossed a small bitter rivulet,
and entered on the elevated cultivation of Kiranga Ranga, under Phanze Mkungu-pare, a very
mild man, who, wishing to give no offence, begged for a trifling present. He came in person,
and his manner having pleased us, I have him one sahari, four yards merikani, and eight yards
kiniki, which pleased our friend so much that he begged us to consider his estate our own,
even to the extent of administering his justice, should any Mzaramo be detected stealing from
us. Our target-practice, whilst instructing the men, astonished him not a little, and produced
an exclamation that, with so many guns, we need fear nothing, go where we would. From this
place a good view is obtained of Uzegura. Beyond the flat alluvial valley of the Kingani, seven
to eight miles broad, the land rises suddenly to a table-land of no great height, on which
trees grow in profusion. In fact it appeared, as far as the eye could reach, the very counterpart
of that where we stood, with the exception of a small hill, very distant, called Phongue.

A very welcome packet of quinine and other medicines reached us here from Rigby, who, hearing
our complaints that the Hottentots could only be kept alive by daily potions of brandy and
quinine, feared our supplies were not enough, and sent us more.

We could not get the Sultan's men to chum with the Wanguana proper; they were shy, like wild
animals--built their huts by themselves--and ate and talked by themselves, for they felt themselves
inferiors; and I had to nominate one of their number to be their chief, answerable for the
actions of the whole. Being in the position of "boots" to the camp, the tending of goats fell
to their lot. Three goats were missing this evening, which the goatherds could not account
for, nor any of their men. Suspecting that they were hidden for a private feast, I told their
chief to inquire farther, and report. The upshot was, that the man was thrashed for intermeddling,
and came back only with his scars. This was a nice sort of insubordination, which of course
could not be endured. The goatherd was pinioned and brought to trial, for the double offence
of losing the goats and rough-handling his chief. The tricking scoundrel--on quietly saying
he could not be answerable for other men's actions if they stole goats, and he could not recognise
a man as his chief whom the Sheikh, merely by a whim of his own, thought proper to appoint--was
condemned to be tied up for the night with the prospect of a flogging in the morning. Seeing
his fate, the cunning vagabond said, "Now I do see it was by your orders the chief was appointed,
and not by a whim of Sheikh Said's; I will obey him for the future;" and these words were hardly
pronounced than the three missing goats rushed like magic into camp, nobody of course knowing
where they came from.

Skirting along the margin of the rising ground overlooking the river, through thick woods,
cleared in places for cultivation, we arrived at Thumba Lhere. The chief here took a hongo
of three yards merikani and two yards kiniki without much fuss, for he had no power. The pagazis
struck, and said they would not move from this unless I gave them one fundo or ten necklaces
of beads each daily, in lieu of rations, as they were promised by Ladha on the coast that I
would do so as soon as they had made four marches. This was an obvious invention, concocted
to try my generosity, for I had given the kirangozi a goat, which is customary, to "make the
journey prosperous"--had suspended a dollar to his neck in recognition of his office, and given
him four yards merikani, that he might have a grand feast with his brothers; while neither
the Sheikh, myself, nor any one else in the camp, had heard of such a compact. With high words
the matter dropped, African fashion.

The pagazis would not start at the appointed time, hoping to enforce their demands of last
night; so we took the lead and started, followed by the Wanguana. Seeing this, the pagazis
cried out with one accord: "The master is gone, leaving the responsibility of his property
in our hands; let us follow, let us follow, for verily he is our father;" and all came hurrying
after us. Here the river, again making a bend, is lost to sight, and we marched through large
woods and cultivated fields to Muhugue, observing, as we passed long, the ochreish colour of
the earth, and numerous pits which the copal-diggers had made searching for their much-valued
gum. A large coast-bound caravan, carrying ivory tusks with double-toned bells suspended to
them, ting-tonging as they moved along, was met on the way; and as some of the pagazis composing
it were men who had formerly taken me to the Victoria N'yanza, warm recognitions passed between
us. 

Three insatiable vampire producer enflaquecían shackled by ignorance, tradition and regulations:
the IRS, the church and banditry, which was the work of the nobles, which was powerless against
justice - which only existed as a resource for means of extortion to the extent that they preferred
to appeal to the duel as a less expensive to settle the disputes of interest, says Hanotaux. The
resident could not leave 12 miles of their residence without the risk of death, says Seignobos,
as in the continent property of the clergy and the nobility were tax exempt, at the end of time
modern European society was most iniquitous exploitation of the commons for classes privileged.
According to the English traveler Young, the outbreak of the Great Revolution, the servant
was in the status of farm animal, working from sunrise to sunset for the idle, and feeding roots
in bad times.

Especially the church, absorbing and constantly hogging positive real produce imaginary goods,
the exploitation of the miracle and the sacraments on souls frightened by it, cutting the
intelligence to the passivity of the absurd mandatory that "the hand of the clergy in the language and
the art of writing had become media kill common sense ", says Robertson, emaciated to the
will subalternized of saints and demons that were favorable or unfavorable luck, the Church
ingested in every act of life to manage and profit to the people as intermediaries unique
among the impotence of the living and the omnipotence of the dead, was an oppressive power
civil society.

Relieved the situation in England, Germany and the Netherlands, the Reformation, which secularized
the church property and withdrew the confession depressing headset and consuming worship relics,
and aggravated in France by the Dragons and the expulsion of the Huguenots, which exported to
those countries, with industrial, industries in France, this country that reached in l'élite
qui fait la foule, a higher level of culture, and did not like Spain, a colonial continent to
order for the benefit of the metropolis, became the came to a place where the iniquities of
Christian civilization, exhausting the limits human dignity and patience enlarged dwarfed by the
philosophers of the eighteenth century.

The safety of life and property and freedom of thought and action, which are the subject political
science, matters entirely foreign to the theology and essential bases prosperity of the people
could only come from those political principles germinated in Britain when Caesar conquered Gaul, and in
its natural development have come to create the government of the people by their own representatives,
against the principle Christian men by government delegates and representatives of God, that was
rule in the Middle Ages and the first part of the modern era.

"In the seventeenth century, says Seignobos, European society had similar bases in all nations: the
absolute authority of the State and the Church. The sovereign power emanates from God and not
has a limit ... It was not possible to publish books without the consent of the government
and the people could be imprisoned indefinitely. There was, therefore, guarantee of any kind,
no freedom individual, this scheme is what is called despotism. It did not admit more than
a church in each country and the inhabitants were forced to worship
the state.

This and Church helped each other, governments, persecuting heretics and forced to subject to
the clergy, and clergy imposing obedience to the king as a religious duty. "

This was the "old regime" in England, and emancipated the Roman papal centralism, without army
for external defense and without the dangers to freedom, as Fiske says - was already very
attenuated, which by then was even more to the revolution 1688, the bill of rights and tolerance,
and that currently only exists in the spiritual, because man is naturally more progressive with
regard the stomach, that with respect to the head, because no lower-order desires food can be satisfied
with fiction as the higher order, because freedom inofficious thinking is for those who do
not think, is odious to those who are disabled to enjoy a pre-parental choice that excludes or makes
it unnecessary to the point that every believer, Buddhist, Catholic, Orthodox, Brahmins, Protestant
or Moslem feel happy and content of beliefs that are acclimated, and that by this means are the best,
and as the force of all conventional wisdom rests on the argument Hottentot: "I thought our fathers,"
increases or decreases, therefore the number of adherents, they feel an appreciation of their
belief in the acceptance of them make the other and a devaluation
in the repudiation.

And while in England there is no report of violence against freedom in the order of goods, there
is still violence to freedom in the realm of ideas: compulsory education absurd beliefs to children
in public school, still living people who have had court convictions for crimes minds such as
heresy, for example, recently abolished in 1865, and is cool even
if Bradlangh twice excluded from parliament for refusing to provide
the religious oath, finally abolished as well.

Arguably, therefore, that the "new regime" has been partially and gradually England from historical
times, in the spirit of individual independence Germany which has developed free institutions,
overcoming the formidable hurdles of absolutism Christian, for that spirit of compromise that
comes in half in the composition of sanity human and not a whit in it, and thanks to which
has been encountered the greatest freedom hereditary monarchy in
policy by the ingenious combination of which, if king's divine wisdom
is wrong, ministers pay the price.

That has allowed him, eventually suppress the rebellion by the meeting and rev the government
of the opposition triumphed in the elections, thanks to the other doctrine compromise between
democracy and monarchy, that the king reigns but governs parliament by the ministry responsible,
the reverse of the continent, where the system English doctrines crashed gifts the doctors of the Church,
Bossuet and Fenelon, who made a virtue of selflessness demeaning to the heads of state institution
divine misconception that always led to Latino leaders to absolutism in Europe and America
and Charles X expressed in the formula that led him to lose the crown
Revolution of 1830: "I prefer to be sawyer to reign in the conditions
of the King of England."

On the mainland, on the contrary, the prevailing birth of the divine right absolutism supported
by the Church, and as for the plasticity of the human spirit, the whole scheme is a pool of personal
arrangements, a school of habits of thought, feeling and action, at the end of modern times
were consolidated by the time trends mental populations are designated by the name of Latin
race, and explain its inability to move within liberal institutions,
from the management opposite, which lies in the town itself the source
of power, delegating upwards.

"The great feature of English constitutional system - the principle of growth, the secret of its
construction - Stubbs says, is the continued development of institutions first state representative
from the elementary, which are used for local purposes and in the simplest way to that in which
the parliament appears to be the concentration all local and provincial
machinery, the depositary of the powers of the three states kingdom.

"

In eighteenth century France was a calamity acute and temporary, because everything rearranged
again traditional centralism, but in Latin America, where regime change took place outburst
also the political ineducación for self government assumed the proportions chronic continental
calamity because desconcordancia between the written constitution and existing customs, including
the fundamental weakness of the initiative, arbitrary and authoritarian capita, disrespectful of other
people's freedom by being educated in the system Catholic dynastic taxation and forced submission,
and the essentially democratic of new political forms brought from North America, all that bared
inability to conduct the paternal regime increases from disuse in the herd and conceals by
too much government, forced to supplement the limited powers of the new regime the old unlimited,
to convert the new free states into mere despotism democratic, as
were the Italian republics of the Middle Ages.

The forerunner of this unfitness for self government and the barbarism, savagery, Cruelty and
terror were consecutive in the mother country, where the human spirit was for a longer time and
more diametrically away from the moral sense of human and idea of
​​free institutions, by the "sacred duty of passive submission to
the altar and the throne" created and played by Catholicism, and Robertson,
in the same place, describes them thus:

"The main purpose of the
Inquisition in Spain is where the period was Saracen major sources
of new thinking and knowledge.

When was permanently introduced in 1236, was greeted by a large proportion of the population
with fear and disgust, and the first Grand Inquisitor was killed in Aragon. It's a mistake to assume
that something in the nature Spanish, particularly favorable to his methods. Spanish orthodoxy
is a manufactured product and represents the triumph, under special circumstances, the fan
element belonging all nations. "

"It is estimated that in 36 years, 200,000 lives were destroyed by
the Spanish Inquisition.

Their methods were the negation of every principle of justice. All testimony, including the
criminals, children and even idiots, was valid against the accused, while it was only ear in
his favor, the unsuspected, all procedures were strictly secret; the false reports were very
rarely punished, and the general principle was that the accused should somehow be guilty, with the
Inquisition, as Pope, infallible. Camera torture could hardly fail to provide proof that they loved.
No rule such terror and horror has happened in any other period in European history, and only
in the practices of witch-finders can be found among the wild side its systematic atrocity.
"

"After the failure of the Invincible Armada against England, the inquisitors
decided that the cause of divine wrath was his undue tolerance of
heresy, and a million Moors reluctant were miserably cast of Spain,
as they had been a century earlier 160,000 Jews.

In a single auto de fe, in Salamanca, 6,000 books were burned. "

"Like every Civilization game Subsisting intellectual variation, the Spain was then stripped of much
of their mental and material resources, and ultimately the continued
consolidated work of the Inquisition arrested brilliant literature
for centuries, keeping devoid of science while the rest of Europe
was accumulating.

Introducing Church inquisition destroyed the specific civilization of southern France; and from then
on using the machine to the civilization of Spain reduced to starvation. "

"Net income for Protestantism is the disruption of spiritual tyranny centralized. The cracks
in the structure gave space for air and light, at a time new trends that began to blow and
new light to shine. Twenty years before the schism Luther, Columbus
had discovered the New World.

Copernicus, who died in 1543, left his teaching the world they had just established Protestantism.
At the beginning of the next century Kepler and Galileo began to extend the limits of the universe
old dream. The modern era was in full swing, and with it Christianity began its decline. "

"It is clear that from mid-seventeenth century the physical sciences for his own method and mined
nature of theology. In them it was possible to test the rational and intelligent conviction,
instead of eternal sterile theological debate on proposals unreasonable.

In the second half of the nineteenth century, eventually the balance of philosophical thought
has been overwhelmingly hostile to Christian beliefs, and it is significant that these days his defense
relies more often on their utility on its truth. "(ie, becomes the Polybius' point of view).

"It
has been said that while the truth vast Greece dialectical discipline, urged men to match each other's beliefs,
and shape them sends Christian Church its dogmas, the modern spirit requires that fit the facts.
This spirit promoted first, and was later promoted greatly by the study of natural science.
"

Roughly speaking always, we could say that Greece created, with beautiful lyrics and fine arts, baking,
material and intellectual progress. Roma civil law, the Palestinian mysticism and theology on
the doctrine of the fall of man in Paradise by the loss of innocence,
which places the state of perfection at the beginning of the species,
and is exactly the reverse of the modern theory of evolution or the
incessant and continuous progress, and that England has created, in
other ways and in the same over time, institutions representative
of that currently enjoyed by all civilized peoples, as capacity for
the needs and trends of the time, as Emerson would say.

The truth, which was sought by divination in the Greco-Roman, and inspiration or disclosure in the
ancient Jewish and Christian, is wanted by the observation in the Middle Ages.

Freedom and science, the two levers of liberal civilization, which is incompatible with the Christian
theory of the world have taken six centuries constituted, which in just 30 years have risen to
great power status in Japan, where they were preceded by the other
in 300 years without result, outside the natural chain of martyrs,
and in another 30 or 40 rise to China, freedom and science from the
human mind has been exercised in the areas forbidden by religions,
of thinking that has sprung up against bans of the Church, to civilize
it a bit apart and she, too, must now under common law to search for
the seduction that previously obtained by torture.

And since the human spirit in Europe began to extend beyond the dogma, in Procrustean bed that kept
the Christian churches, all medieval institutions, political, economic were social and disappear
or become democratic sense, as the course of the philosophical and the permanent allurement
of those early and glorious republics of antiquity, which illuminates the fate of the human species
as shining flashes of thought, beauty, grace and free creative energy.

But fortunately the outcome was long anticipated by the work, patience and perseverance of
English people, who in the late seventeenth century had managed to
forge and all the political necessary to give the government agency
consistency, softness, strength, elasticity and resiliency, which
were missing in the Greek democracies, in the Roman Republic and the
medieval empires.

 In the variety and number of our game we were disappointed, partly because so many wounded
got away, and partly because we could not find what we knew the park to contain, in addition
to what we killed--namely, elephants, rhinoceros, giraffes, buffaloes, zebra, and many varieties
of antelopes, besides lions and hyenas. In fact, "the park," as well as all the adjacent land
at the foot of the hills, is worth thinking of, with a view to a sporting tour as well as scientific
investigation.

A circumstance arose here, which, insignificant though it appeared, is worth noting, to show
how careful one must be in understanding and dealing with negro servants. Quite unaccountably
to myself, the general of my Wanguana, Baraka, after showing much discontent with his position
as head of Captain Grant's establishment, became so insolent, that it was necessary to displace
him, and leave him nothing to do but look after the men. This promoted Frij, who enjoyed his
rise as much as Baraka, if his profession was to be believed, enjoyed his removal from that
office. Though he spoke in this manner, still I knew that there was something rankling in his
mind which depressed his spirits as long as he remained with us, though what it was I could
not comprehend, nor did I fully understand it till months afterwards. It was ambition, which
was fast making a fiend of him; and had I known it, he would, and with great advantage too,
have been dismissed upon the spot. The facts were these: He was exceedingly clever, and he
knew it. His command over men was surprising. At Zanzibar he was the Consul's right-hand man:
he ranked above Bombay in the consular boat's crew, and became a terror even to the Banyans
who kept slaves. He seemed, in fact, in his own opinion, to have imbibed all the power of the
British Consul who had instructed him. Such a man was an element of discord in our peaceful
caravan. He was far too big-minded for the sphere which he occupied; and my surprise now is
that he ever took service, knowing what he should, at the time of enlistment, have expected,
that no man would be degraded to make room for him. But this was evidently what he had expected,
though he dared not say it. He was jealous of Bombay, because he thought his position over
the money department was superior to his own over the men; and he had seen Bombay, on one occasion,
pay a tax in Uzaramo--a transaction which would give him consequence with the native chiefs.
Of Sheikh Said he was equally jealous, for a like reason; and his jealousy increased the more
that I found it necessary to censure the timidity of this otherwise worthy little man. Baraka
thought, in his conceit, that he could have done all things better, and gained signal fame,
had he been created chief. Perhaps he thought he had gained the first step towards this exalted
rank, and hence his appearing very happy for this time. I could not see through so deep a scheme
and only hoped that he would shortly forget, in the changes of the marching life, those beautiful
wives he had left behind him, which Bombay in his generosity tried to persuade me was the cause
of his mental distraction.

Our halt at the ford here was cut short by the increasing sickness of the Hottentots, and the
painful fact that Captain Grant was seized with fever. [6] We had to change camp to the little
village of Kiruru, where, as rice was grown--an article not to be procured again on this side
of Unyamuezi--we stopped a day to lay in supplies of this most valuable of all travelling food.
Here I obtained the most consistent accounts of the river system which, within five days' journey,
trends through Uzegura; and I concluded, from what I heard, that there is no doubt of the Mukondokua
and Wami rivers being one and the same stream. My informants were the natives of the settlement,
and they all concurred in saying that the Kingani above the junction is called the Rufu, meaning
the parent stream. Beyond it, following under the line of the hills, at one day's journey distant,
there is a smaller river called Msonge. At an equal distance beyond it, another of the same
size is known as Lungerengeri; and a fourth river is the Wami, which mouths in the sea at Utondue,
between the ports of Whindi and Saadami. In former years, the ivory-merchants, ever seeking
for an easy road for their trade, and knowing they would have no hills to climb if they could
only gain a clear passage by this river from the interior plateau to the sea, made friends
with the native chiefs of Uzegura, and succeeded in establishing it as a thoroughfare. Avarice,
however, that fatal enemy to the negro chiefs, made them overreach themselves by exorbitant
demands of taxes. Then followed contests for the right of appropriating the taxes, and the
whole ended in the closing of the road, which both parties were equally anxious to keep open
for their mutual gain. This foolish disruption having at first only lasted for a while, the
road was again opened and again closed, for the merchants wanted an easy passage, and the native
chiefs desired cloths. But it was shut again; and now we heard of its being for a third time
opened, with what success the future only can determine--for experience WILL not teach the
negro, who thinks only for the moment. Had they only sense to see, and patience to wait, the
whole trade of the interior would inevitably pass through their country instead of Uzaramo;
and instead of being poor in cloths, they would be rich and well dressed like their neighbours.
But the curse of Noah sticks to these his grandchildren by Ham, and no remedy that has yet
been found will relieve them. They require a government like ours in India; and without it,
the slave trade will wipe them off the face of the earth.

Now leaving the open parks of pretty acacias, we followed up the Mgazi branch of the Mgeta,
traversed large tree-jungles, where the tall palm is conspicuous, and drew up under the lumpy
Mkambaku, to find a residence for the day. Here an Arab merchant, Khamis, bound for Zanzibar,
obliged us by agreeing for a few dollars to convey our recent spoils in natural history to
the coast.

My plans for the present were to reach Zungomero as soon as possible, as a few days' halt would
be required there to fix the longitude of the eastern flank of the East Coast Range by astronomical
observation; but on ordering the morning's march, the porters--too well fed and lazy--thought
our marching-rate much too severe, and resolutely refused to move. They ought to have made
ten miles a-day, but preferred doing five. Argument was useless, and I was reluctant to apply
the stick, as the Arabs would have done when they saw their porters trifling with their pockets.
Determining, however, not to be frustrated in this puerile manner, I ordered the bugler to
sound the march, and started with the mules and coast-men, trusting to Sheikh and Baraka to
bring on the Wanyamuezi as soon as they could move them. The same day we crossed the Mgazi
where we found several Wakhutu spearing fish in the muddy hovers of its banks.

We slept under a tree, and this morning found a comfortable residence under the eaves of a
capacious hut. The Wanyamuezi porters next came in at their own time, and proved to us how
little worth are orders in a land where every man, in his own opinion, is a lord, and no laws
prevail. Zungomero, bisected by the Mgeta, lies on flat ground, in a very pretty amphitheatre
of hills, S. lat. 7° 26' 53", and E. long. 37° 36' 45". It is extremely fertile, and very populous,
affording everything that man can wish, even to the cocoa and papwa fruits; but the slave-trade
has almost depopulated it, and turned its once flourishing gardens into jungles. As I have
already said, the people who possess these lands are cowardly by nature, and that is the reason
why they are so much oppressed. The Wasuahili, taking advantage of their timidity, flock here
in numbers to live upon the fruits of their labours. The merchants on the coast, too, though
prohibited by their Sultan from interfering with the natural course of trade, send their hungry
slaves, as touters, to entice all approaching caravans to trade with their particular ports,
authorising the touters to pay such premiums as may be necessary for the purpose. Where they
came from we could not ascertain; but during our residence, a large party of the Wasuahili
marched past, bound for the coast, with one hundred head of cattle, fifty slaves in chains,
and as many goats. Halts always end disastrously in Africa, giving men time for mischief;--and
here was an example of it. During the target-practice, which was always instituted on such
occasions to give confidence to our men, the little pepper-box Rahan, my head valet, challenged
a comrade to a duel with carbines. Being stopped by those around him, he vented his wrath in
terrible oaths, and swung about his arms, until his gun accidentally went off, and blew his
middle finger off.

Baraka next, with a kind of natural influence of affinity when a row is commenced, made himself
so offensive to Bombay, as to send him running to me so agitated with excitement that I thought
him drunk. He seized my hands, cried, and implored me to turn him off. What could this mean?
I could not divine; neither could he explain, further than that he had come to a determination
that I must send either him or Baraka to the right-about; and his first idea was that he, and
not Baraka, should be the victim. Baraka's jealousy about his position had not struck me yet.
I called them both together and asked what quarrel they had, but could not extract the truth.
Baraka protested that he had never given, either by word or deed, the slightest cause of rupture;
he only desired the prosperity of the march, and that peace should reign throughout the camp;
but Bombay was suspicious of him, and malignantly abused him, for what reason Baraka could
not tell. When I spoke of this to Bombay, like a bird fascinated by the eye of a viper, he
shrank before the slippery tongue of his opponent, and could only say, "No, Sahib--oh no, that
is not it; you had better turn me off, for his tongue is so long, and mine so short, you never
will believe me." I tried to make them friends, hoping it was merely a passing ill-wind which
would soon blow over; but before long the two disputants were tonguing it again, and I distinctly
heard Bombay ordering Baraka out of camp as he could not keep from intermeddling, saying, which
was true, he had invited him to join the expedition, that his knowledge of Hindustani might
be useful to us; he was not wanted for any other purpose, and unless he was satisfied with
doing that alone, we would get on much better without him. To this provocation Baraka mildly
made the retort, "Pray don't put yourself in a passion, nobody is hurting you, it is all in
your own heart, which is full of suspicions and jealousy without the slightest cause."

This complicated matters more than ever. I knew Bombay to be a generous, honest man, entitled
by his former services to be in the position he was now holding as fundi, or supervisor in
the camp. Baraka, who never would have joined the expedition excepting through his invitation,
was indebted to him for the rank he now enjoyed--a command over seventy men, a duty in which
he might have distinguished himself as a most useful accessory to the camp. Again I called
the two together, and begged them to act in harmony like brothers, noticing that there was
no cause for entertaining jealousy on either side, as every order rested with myself to reward
for merit or to punish. The relative position in the camp was like that of the senior officers
in India, Bombay representing the Mulki lord, or Governor-General, and Baraka the Jungi lord,
or Commander-in-Chief. To the influence of this distinguished comparison they both gave way,
acknowledging myself their judge, and both protesting that they wished to serve in peace and
quietness for the benefit of the march.

Zungomero is a terminus or junction of two roads leading to the interior--one, the northern,
crossing over the Goma Pass, and trenching on the Mukondokua river, and the other crossing
over the Mabruki Pass, and edging on the Ruaha river. They both unite again at Ugogi, the western
terminus on the present great Unyamuezi line. On the former expedition I went by the northern
line and returned by the southern, finding both equally easy, and, indeed, neither is worthy
of special and permanent preference. In fact, every season makes a difference in the supply
of water and provisions; and with every year, owing to incessant wars, or rather slave-hunts,
the habitations of the wretched inhabitants become constantly changed--generally speaking,
for the worse. Our first and last object, therefore, as might be supposed, from knowing these
circumstances, was to ascertain, before mounting the hill-range, which route would afford us
the best facilities for a speedy march now. No one, however, could or would advise us. The
whole country on ahead, especially Ugogo, was oppressed by drought and famine. To avoid this
latter country, then, we selected the southern route, as by doing so it was hoped we might
follow the course of the Ruaha river from Maroro to Usenga and Usanga, and thence strike across
to Unyanyembe, sweeping clear of Ugogo.

With this determination, after despatching a third set of specimens, consisting of large game
animals, birds, snakes, insects, land and freshwater shells, and a few rock specimens, of which
one was fossiliferous, we turned southwards, penetrating the forests which lie between the
greater range and the little outlying one. At the foot of this is the Maji ya Wheta, a hot,
deep-seated spring of fresh water, which bubbles up through many apertures in a large dome-shaped
heap of soft lime--an accumulation obviously thrown up by the force of the spring, as the rocks
on either side of it are of igneous character. We arrived at the deserted village of Kirengue.
This was not an easy go-ahead march, for the halt had disaffected both men and mules. Three
of the former bolted, leaving their loads upon the ground; and on the line of march, one of
the mules, a full-conditioned animal, gave up the ghost after an eighteen hours' sickness.
What his disease was I never could ascertain; but as all the remaining animals died afterwards
much in the same manner, I may state for once and for all, that these attacks commenced with
general swelling, at first on the face, then down the neck, along the belly and down the legs.
It proved so obstinate that fire had no effect upon it; and although we cut off the tails of
some to relieve them by bleeding, still they died.

In former days Kirengue was inhabited, and we reasonably hoped to find some supplies for the
jungly march before us. But we had calculated without our host, for the slave-hunters had driven
every vestige of humanity away; and now, as we were delayed by our three loads behind, there
was nothing left but to send back and purchase more grain. Such was one of the many days frittered
away in do-nothingness.

This day, all together again, we rose the first spurs of the well-wooded Usagara hills, amongst
which the familiar bamboo was plentiful, and at night we bivouacked in the jungle.

Rising betimes in the morning, and starting with a good will, we soon reached the first settlements
of Mbuiga, from which could be seen a curious blue mountain, standing up like a giant overlooking
all the rest of the hills. The scenery here formed a strong and very pleasing contrast to any
we had seen since leaving the coast. Emigrant Waziraha, who had been driven from their homes
across the Kingani river by the slave-hunters, had taken possession of the place, and disposed
their little conical-hut villages on the heights of the hill-spurs in such a picturesque manner,
that one could not help hoping they would here at least be allowed to rest in peace and quietness.
The valleys, watered by little brooks, are far richer, and even prettier, than the high lands
above, being lined with fine trees and evergreen shrubs; while the general state of prosperity
was such, that the people could afford, even at this late season of the year, to turn their
corn into malt to brew beer for sale; and goats and fowls were plentiful in the market.

Passing by the old village of Mbuiga, which I occupied on my former expedition, we entered
some huts on the western flank of the Mbuiga district; and here, finding a coast-man, a great
friend of the little sheikh's, willing to take back to Zanzibar anything we might give him,
a halt was made, and I drew up my reports. I then consigned to his charge three of the most
sickly of the Hottentots in a deplorable condition--one of the mules, that they might ride
by turns--and all the specimens that had been collected. With regret I also sent back the camera;
because I saw, had I allowed my companion to keep working it, the heat he was subjected to
in the little tent whilst preparing and fixing his plates would very soon have killed him.
The number of guinea-fowl seen here was most surprising.

A little lighter and much more comfortable for the good riddance of those grumbling "Tots,"
we worked up to and soon breasted the stiff ascent of the Mabruki Pass, which we surmounted
without much difficult. This concluded the first range of these Usagara hills; and once over,
we dropped down to the elevated valley of Makata, where we halted two days to shoot. As a travelling
Arab informed me that the whole of the Maroro district had been laid waste by the marauding
Wahehe, I changed our plans again, and directed our attention to a middle and entirely new
line, which in the end would lead us to Ugogi. The first and only giraffe killed upon the journey
was here shot by Grant, with a little 40-gauge Lancaster rifle, at 200 yards' distance. Some
smaller animals were killed; but I wasted all my time in fruitlessly stalking some wounded
striped eland--magnificent animals, as large as Delhi oxen--and some other animals, of which
I wounded three, about the size of hartebeest, and much their shape, only cream-coloured, with
a conspicuous black spot in the centre of each flank. The eland may probably be the animal
first mentioned by Livingstone, but the other animal is not known.

Though reluctant to leave a place where such rare animals were to be found, the fear of remaining
longer on the road induced us to leave Kikobogo, and at a good stride we crossed the flat valley
of Makata, and ascended the higher lands beyond, where we no sooner arrived than we met the
last down trader from Unyamuezi, well known to all my men as the great Mamba or Crocodile.
Mamba, dressed in a dirty Arab gown, with coronet of lion's nails decorating a thread-bare
cutch cap, greeted us with all the dignity of a savage potentate surrounded by his staff of
half-naked officials. As usual, he had been the last to leave the Unyamuezi, and so purchased
all his stock of ivory at a cheap rate, there being no competitors left to raise the value
of that commodity; but his journey had been a very trying one. With a party, at his own estimate,
of two thousand souls--we did not see anything like that number--he had come from Ugogo to
this, by his own confession, living on the products of the jungle, and by boiling down the
skin aprons of his porters occasionally for a soup. Famines were raging throughout the land,
and the Arabs preceding him had so harried the country, that every village was deserted. On
hearing our intention to march upon the direct line, he frankly said he thought we should never
get through for my men could not travel as he had done, and therefore he advised our deflecting
northwards from New Mbumi to join the track leading from Rumuma to Ugogi. This was a sad disappointment;
but, rather than risk a failure, I resolved to follow his advice.

After reaching the elevated ground, we marched over rolling tops, covered with small trees
and a rich variety of pretty bulbs, and reached the habitations of Muhanda, where we no sooner
appeared than the poor villagers, accustomed only to rough handling, immediately dispersed
in the jungles. By dint of persuasion, however, we induced them to sell us provisions, though
at a monstrous rate, such as no merchant could have afforded; and having spent the night quietly,
we proceeded on to the upper courses of the M'yombo river, which trends its way northwards
to the Mukondokua river. The scenery was most interesting, with every variety of hill, roll,
plateau, and ravine, wild and prettily wooded; but we saw nothing of the people. Like frightened
rats, as soon as they caught the sound of our advancing march, they buried themselves in the
jungles, carrying off their grain with them. Foraging parties, of necessity, were sent out
as soon as the camp was pitched, with cloth for purchases, and strict orders not to use force;
the upshot of which was, that my people got nothing but a few arrows fired at them by the lurking
villagers, and I was abused for my squeamishness. Moreover, the villagers, emboldened by my
lenity, vauntingly declared they would attack the camp by night, as they could only recognise
in us such men as plunder their houses and steal their children. This caused a certain amount
of alarm among my men, which induced them to run up a stiff bush-fence round the camp, and
kept them talking all night.

This morning we marched on as usual, with one of the Hottentots lashed on a donkey; for the
wretched creature, after lying in the sun asleep, became so sickly that he could not move or
do anything for himself, and nobody would do anything for him. The march was a long one, but
under ordinary circumstances would have been very interesting, for we passed an immense lagoon,
where hippopotami were snorting as if they invited an attack. In the larger tree-jungles the
traces of elephants, buffaloes, rhinoceros, and antelopes were very numerous; while a rich
variety of small birds, as often happened, made me wish I had come on a shooting rather than
on a long exploring expedition. Towards sunset we arrived at New Mbimi, a very pretty and fertile
place, lying at the foot of a cluster of steep hills, and pitched camp for three days to lay
in supplies for ten, as this was reported to be the only place where we could buy corn until
we reached Ugogo, a span of 140 miles. Mr Mbumi, the chief of the place, a very affable negro,
at once took us by the hand, and said he would do anything we desired, for he had often been
to Zanzibar. He knew that the English were the ruling power in that land, and that they were
opposed to slavery, the terrible effects of which had led to his abandoning Old Mbumi, on the
banks of the Mukondokua river, and rising here.

The sick Hottentot died here, and we buried him with Christian honours. As his comrades said,
he died because he had determined to die,--an instance of that obstinate fatalism in their
mulish temperament which no kind words or threats can cure. This terrible catastrophe made
me wish to send all the remaining Hottentots back to Zanzibar; but as they all preferred serving
with me to returning to duty at the Cape, I selected two of the MOST sickly, put them under
Tabib, one of Rigby's old servants, and told him to remain with them at Mbumi until such time
as he might find some party proceeding to the coasts; and, in the meanwhile, for board and
lodgings I have Mbumi beads and cloth. The prices of provisions here being a good specimen
of what one has to pay at this season of the year, I give a short list of them:--sixteen rations
corn, two yards cloth; three fowls, two yards cloth; one goat, twenty yards cloth; one cow,
forty yards cloth,--the cloth being common American sheeting. Before we left Mbumi, a party
of forty men and women of the Waquiva tribe, pressed by famine, were driven there to purchase
food. The same tribe had, however killed many of Mbumi's subjects not long since, and therefore,
in African revenge, the chief seized them all, saying he would send them off for sale to Zanzibar
market unless they could give a legitimate reason for the cruelty they had committed. These
Waquiva, I was given to understand, occupied the steep hills surrounding this place. They were
a squalid-looking set, like the generality of the inhabitants of this mountainous region.

This march led us over a high hill to the Mdunhwi river, another tributary to the Mukondokua.
It is all clad in the upper regions with the slender pole-trees which characterise these hills,
intermingled with bamboo; but the bottoms are characterised by a fine growth of fig-trees of
great variety along with high grasses; whilst near the villages were found good gardens of
plantains, and numerous Palmyra trees. The rainy season being not far off, the villagers were
busy in burning rubble and breaking their ground. Within their reach everywhere is the sarsaparilla
vine, but growing as a weed, for they know nothing of its value.

Rising up from the deep valley of Mdunhwi we had to cross another high ridge before descending
to the also deep valley of Chongue, as picturesque a country as the middle heights of the Himalayas,
dotted on the ridges and spur-slopes by numerous small conical-hut villages; but all so poor
that we could not, had we wanted it, have purchased provisions for a day's consumption.

Leaving this valley, we rose to the table of Manyovi, overhung with much higher hills, looking,
according to the accounts of our Hottentots, as they eyed the fine herds of cattle grazing
on the slopes, so like the range in Kafraria, that they formed their expectations accordingly,
and appeared, for the first time since leaving the coast, happy at the prospect before them,
little dreaming that such rich places were seldom to be met with. Dangerous social status, fatal forms peoples have need new
ideals and new young sap.

It is not scaremongering pessimistic ours: we look at social phenomena
objectively, putting muted passion and enthusiasm.

According to the statement of a humorist writer, skilled juggler of paradoxes, "everything
was mestizado in the country: trade, labor, agriculture, cows, horses, sheep; all that remained
was pure criollo politics. And is all that is wrong "[1]. Perhaps the only truth of an entire book.
That is the policy persists, it succeeds; purely empirical and emotional, personal. Or economic, or
social, or scientific. Sound of words, theatrical gestures of theatrical declamation, not an economic
idea, no philosophical principle or social order that determines. It's the old politics that becomes
- or rather, continuing - a Despite the change of some men by others, and the solemnity of
the palace declamations on Capitol Hill: that is, the policy of Tartuffe, which we will present
the Light of Day American pilgrimage, when, tired of living in Europe, made his trip incognito these
lands as alberdiana tasty creation. Is that Mr. Tartufo is an old friend ours. To Alberdi was a familiar
character. Miral how it portrays the ideal type of representative, with conditions also ideal: "You
should be looking - he says - all the skills of leadership, but really should be free of all
because if one is with him, that will be enough to never come to power, with the exterior of a
born ruler, should be more manageable a slave, must be a wheel with the air of a helmsman, a machine
with driver figure, a sheep skin of a lion, a rabbit with the skin of a hyena, a consummate
knave with gravely made man of honor. Must be a liar of birth and at the same time flajelo
of liars to notice the air of hate lies. The fact is a pitfall and vice of telling the truth
lies elsewhere. He who loves and hopes to have it, it must be maul hand before opening it, if it
is full of truths: truth and power are the antithesis. Must have talent to hide the truth by word
and the press. The phrase provided rules the world to be empty, because the phrase, as the drums,
more noise as more hollow "[2].

This page admirable eminent public seems written for our time. Land its Quijotania fantastic,
but it is not that we know, was always and still be still, conducive
to the truffles that have even sided with the sovereign people ...

"Fools
or criminals - says a respected writer - Grace or bittersweet, its
brilliant phraseology only serves to deceive the gullible and drag
them to destruction.

What a painful condition the nation is in such an opulent facade lies a ruined building and the
apparatus of civilization mask serves only to decrepitude and vices decay "[3].

The regression of this historic moment is undeniable. It is a state of full political pathology.
Bulk facts must pay the seriousness of this statement, suffice serenely
listening social environment to perceive.

It is "the shed of the old farce" that said Benavente. But it is not sorry for not tremble
and go collect the courage to Agustín Álvarez. Study it and meditate on the work of multiple
social projections, fruitful and sober teachings that in the strong fabric of your thinking,
strengthen our spirit, in his austere life find a role model and find the sower harvest the
good seed - yet fruitless - to spread it to the winds, in the certainty that contribute to improving
moral, social and political development of this piece of land in which we must act and live.

II .-- THE MAN AND THE WORK

For my part I have to confess with shame not to have known Alvarez,
but rather after twenty years, that is, in his work as a thinker,
moralist, sociologist, educator, it was in the highest conception
of the word.

His vast, complex and unusual work spread in many volumes, philosophy, education, politics
and sociology, written with that label is so characteristic, as his, which makes it distinctive
in a thousand.

I have not met before Alvarez.

On the other hand I'm not sure I would have covered full force and intent the value of their
writings and works, the first youth we like more than the phrase that sounds, the harmonic
clause in his ear, that content or substance. And it's not my fault, in my distant hometown
was unknown master and will remain so who knows for how long. Where, as saying of his, so
accurate as galling, it spends more to produce tallow and wax candles soap for hygiene, it is
clear that Alvarez and his ideas but could not get contraband. The environment is frankly
hostile to them. Ignore it as it ignores Ameghino, are known only in name. Just If Darwin and Comte
have an occasional unfaithful disciple. And how would hear the voice of lay teacher, the philosopher
of freedom, sharp and acerbic critic of our pathology social policy and if those societies
are an example of provincial Spanish-colonial past with all the prejudices and routines? Can
you hear the voice of Alvarez, his stout and strong criticism all religious dogmas which the meek
spirit of the father and calmly episcopal Esquiú governs the life of the people still in their
sermons in the odor of sanctity?

No one could see, then, the thinking among the deafening noise of the bells cast a daily flight
to better glory of the Lord, singing and begging beaterios mental poverty of the people. Compréndese
easily than in provincial towns where fanaticism takes forms so rare and where, we could say
without exaggeration, one learns to pray and to despise manual labor, a thinker of his race and
the strong texture of his criticism was systematically excluded. Thus, this virtuoso of thought
is almost strange to be known only begins today. On the other hand, the press gaucho and huckster,
who The truffle has to loose and easy applause, he took his silence for the war. And it includes
well.

Creole politician could not go look for his works a relevant phrase to adorn your appointment
speech indispensable, because he had filed a "Manual of Pathology." The lawyer, more or less leguleyo
and entanglements, the attorney black bird, finally, the endless series of those who fell under the
galling sharpness of his pen and all the huge legion of people "Good" that we encounter daily,
who lives to the worship of the prejudices rude and ridiculous, could not be friends with Alvarez,
and now have his name prendérsele their work with ill-concealed rage.

Things, people, customs, habits, routines, prejudices, hereditary defects, sediment social all focused
on the beam of his flashlight this spirit eager to learn and good.

Poke, remove, cut the sick, evil, ruthless with his knife. Everything falls under the dissection
and analysis.

A pair of diagnosing the disease state the remedy for the cure, although cautery is here or
there amputation.

His humor provincial breaks in sarcasm, in the light and barely perceptible smile mocking - I imagine
that constantly distending the corner of his mouth -; in criticism sharp, thin-sectarian social,
petrified bodies struggle to bring down the spirit of observation
and experimentation of scientific positivism, not revealed truths
and immutable truths, always having the right phrase, the timely appointment,
saying caustic for all these things as ugly as ours.

* * *

But what brings out the value of his work with accented relief, is that all of it, like himself,
was the product of their own efforts. Orphan boy, learned early the pain of life, that is, had to be
prematurely man, but that does not quench thirst perfection of his spirit, the ardent desire of knowing,
or abate the fiery temperament and determined. He came to Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires sighed,
dazzling and golden city, scene indispensable to all consecrations,
but not before having given proof of his strong character leading
a student revolt in the national association of Mendoza, where he
studied side.

So no gold in the bags, but with a great value to the fight, arrived in Cosmopolis, to fight hand
to hand with life. Was formed only in the studio and work without managers mental, without
guides, without guardians of their intelligence - the worst calamity - following their vocations
sometimes driven by the needs of others, to find the final guidance
its spirit, more than half of its existence, then following this path
of progress until his death.

This status of being the product of their work, owe nothing to their prestige and their merits
conquered anyone, will be later because of their pride, a pride legitimate,
Indeed, he repeatedly expressed in the words of his biographers in
relevant and expressive English: self-made man.

"

The vocation of the major characters is usually the ministry of an idea - said a writer Contemporary
[4], regarding our beloved thinker - and Alvarez had all the characteristics the apostle: the
unwavering faith that makes it persist in its stubborn fight in a hostile environment fantastic
visionary look towards a humanitarian ideal of social perfection, beautiful life and better for
all by cultural diffusion, because he understood that education is a second nature, believing "you can
change, through school, a village of rogues in a nation of good people and a land of misery and curse
in the land of prosperity and blessings "[5]. That's the hot passion that is discovered through
its social critique in its many facets, although it is directed more to the reason that the feeling,
prefer the brain to the heart and seek quiet reflection rather than the effectiveness impressionable.
Finally, the simplicity the writer, carelessness in man proverbially yours, that is forgotten
of the person to devote to others, the worship of an idea or ideal
that is often always a constant obsession in the predestined.

The man, his whole life, his spirit tempered in adversity and setbacks, is reflected in his work
as a writer, so clear, so the sharper the picture is more accurate than ever that style and
man. "And so the book reflects the personality of its author - says Alicia Moreau - if you
read seems to emerge from the pages that its original shape, simple and modest without affectation,
sober and friendly gesture, the look serene, smile goodness finely
nuanced irony, the author takes his work much as the work in its author,
it was never a man more moral authority to talk to their neighbors
"[6].

Seek in vain in that unit Agustin Alvarez, the spiritual consequence, they have often other writers and
thinkers, from his youth and full maturity. Not exist in him. Life made him like so many others
to follow guidelines, which may not be the favorite his temperament, and so often we change directions.
Multiple distracting activities and concerned about its existence.

Military First - and this is the most amazing case of Alvarez, - lawyer journalist, judge,
writer, member, university professor later.

But not lost in vain time spent in the various fields of activity; will accumulate data, different
notes, piling up observations, making the learning nature of men and things, customs and habits,
feeling errors, distortions, Ancestral vices, perhaps always with that smile of a good man,
"tinged with irony," which will serve to further review and advisory work as a writer and
philosopher manners moralist. That's what will abhor all Spanish-colonial past, feeling for him a holy
horror, like other great thinkers of our: Sarmiento and Alberdi, past that has shaped such
individuals and companies, resigned to fatalism, superstitious, fans and lazy, as a consequence
of bad political system of feudalism the detestable bonded to the economic and, above all, as
a product of morphine absorbed by centuries of Christianity in an effort to cultivate the soul for
the afterlife has neglected this "skinny Mortality," forming companies reluctant to hygiene, culture
and work, unsuitable for civilization and technological progress. With its moral renunciation
of pain and bitterness, depressive personality, that he will fight tenaciously knowing how deep
are your roots and how scattered they are, as earnest of science that was, without a man of science
itself. So try to show the basis for a new moral world based on the cult of life, beauty and freedom
of internal and external, by individual education in virtue and freedom that comes from wisdom.
So also will a European, coinciding in this as in his passion for popular education, again with
Sarmiento, because above all he was passionate about the Anglo-Saxon type. Strive to improve
the individual working on native yeast, depending on the model of the north, thus understanding
improve the community. Filled with a healthy optimism, confident in the future, working the
hard mortar without fear of breaking their hands.

Working for the future, generous and unselfish, trusting him, understanding
that "all the ideals of this can be done in the future as they are
exceeded in this all the dreams of the past.

"

* * *

We do not here a critical study. Just outlined, without further claim, the work together man.
Ethicist in the manner of Emerson, - with whom he has found somewhat similar - although not
as accurate likeness, will be the South Emerson, more properly, the Argentine Emerson.

His work as a writer would not begin until the thirty-seven years of his life, "South America ",
followed by other volumes that have a marked unit trends," Manual political pathology, "which
will be called the first"

Manual of Argentine idiotic, "changing later the name and content with some additions, will
appear after other books more: "Essay on Education," Where do we go? "to top it off, calm and thorough
writer, with "Transformation of Race in America", "History of free institutions" and " creation
of the moral world. "

By the virtuosity of its ideals and the austerity of his life as quiet and strong man "Was armed
with one invulnerable shield of goodness and justice that allowed Bergeret M. pick the stone
that he threw an angry mob because he had dared to say smile and whisper the truth: it is an
argument run, "we can consider the ideal type of citizen - who said of Alberdi, Jaures - in
the most honorable expression of the term and teacher of the people as well, because his life
was not like many writers of harem - away of collective life and his time - weaving filigree
arabesques, but dedicola in laborious years past and educate the people and the youth, from
the chair, books, pamphlets, public lectures, to free him from the
religious dogmas and prejudices and routines of all kinds, having
freed himself by wisdom, and because exponent is a high energy, work,
effort itself, is worthy to stand as a model for young people and
working men who are fighting poverty by improved every day, carrying
pinned to a healthy soul and noble ideal.

III .-- THE WRITER

Style was simple, easy and clear without elaborate erudition of those who want to dazzle more
than teaching. This does not mean that there was no scholarship in his books there is, and good
law, because it was an indefatigable student, passionate about science,
often enjoying there substantiate their allegations.

Or cumbersome, or solemn, in spite of being filled their Book safe and healthy moral maxims that
reflect their desire for justice and good, constant preoccupation of his life as a writer.

Sometimes
become mischievous, malicious, sharp, to censure vice, prejudice
or routine.

It is always picturesque, well, full of wholesome joy, as if he had proposed cure innate sadness
of our people, imbued with romantic sadness.

Would have said that he was concerned how little. His books are full of sloppiness - especially
the first, where even the grammar is suffering - at some nice carelessly.

Alvarez is not a stylist. Might argue - as was said of Sarmiento - who writes in his shirtsleeves.
Never mind that the word does not sound good, the phrase is a common place, provided it or accurately
express this concept and its meaning is well understood.

Literature will not empty of litter and bombast; not write or a page that has the convoluted affectation
of speech, the careful refinement of form, which degenerates often in a hateful verbiage, in which
so many people waste their time points. Will not never or a watermark, or an arabesque. He is interested
in the ideas, concepts and expression truths.

Go to the root of the problem or issue, and treat it with clarity and knowledge. Without this
amount does not like beauty, like that abound in his books beautiful
images graceful and betting as brides, since that does not disdain
to join with the sterner of the curve idea elegant and harmonious art.

But family always ironic. This last condition comes from his strong native strain, is the native
cunning of the educated man has been refined and polished.

It has been criticized, and rightly so, that was not the domain of
artistic synthesis of prose.

Repeats every time, turns and detours on the same topic. In this sense we can say he wrote many
useless pages, but this is not accept that accusation of bad taste and irrelevance that cast
him in the face for having given too much importance to the issue religious. She definitely has to
worry about writers and thinkers, and Alvarez was right, and we will thereafter.

There is something, especially in the writer and man, which make it unique, unique: it is their
moral courage. Knowing the truth is and, indeed, a merit. Say it without hesitation or euphemism
is itself admirable. But live, bringing the idea to fact, from theory
to practice preaching to the action is, no doubt, a heroic. Present
their prestige, their merits, their whole future is the highest modern
heroism and noble.

Tocol live a Byzantine era rampant corruption
that invaded everything and moral values ​​were quoted in local currency.
A nation of gentlemen that there was abundant manhood, well, that
is, a town of respectable thieves. They had lived in Ugogo one year
and a half, and had killed in all seventeen elephants; half the tusks of which, as well as
some portion of the flesh, they gave to Magomba for the privilege of residing there. There
were many antelopes there, some of which both Grant and I shot for the good of the pot, and
he also killed a crocute hyena. From the pond we went on to the middle of a large jungle, and
bivouacked for the night in a shower of rain, the second of the season.

During a fierce downpour of rain, the porters all quivering and quaking with cold, we at length
emerged from the jungle, and entered the prettiest spot in Ugogo--the populous district of
Usekhe--where little hills and huge columns of granite crop out. Here we halted.

Next day came the hongo business, which was settled by paying one dubani, one kitambi, one
msutu, four yards merikani, and two yards kiniki; but whilst we were doing it eight porters
ran away, and four fresh ones were engaged (Wanyamuezi) who had run away from Kanyenye.

With one more march from this we reached the last district in Ugogo, Khoko. Here the whole
of the inhabitants turned out to oppose us, imagining we had come there to revenge the Arab,
Mohinna, because the Wagogo attacked him a year ago, plundered his camp, and drove him back
to Kaze, for having shot their old chief "Short-legs." They, however, no sooner found out who
we were than they allowed us to pass on, and encamp in the outskirts of the Mgunda Mkhali wilderness.
To this position in the bush I strongly objected, on the plea that guns could be best used
against arrows in the open; but none would go out in the field, maintaining that the Wagogo
would fear to attack us so far from their villages, as we now were, lest we might cut them
off in their retreat.

Hori Hori was now chief in Short-leg's stead, and affected to be much pleased that we were
English, and not Arabs. He told us we might, he thought, be able to recruit all the men that
we were in want of, as many Wanyanuezi who had been left there sick wished to go to their homes;
and I would only, in addition to their wages, have to pay their "hotel bills" to the Wagogo.
This, of course, I was ready to do, though I knew the Wanyamuezi had paid for themselves, as
is usual, by their work in the fields of their hosts. Still, as I should be depriving these
of hands, I could scarcely expect to get off for less than the value of a slave for each, and
told Sheikh said to look out for some men at once, whilst at the same time he laid in provisions
of grain to last us eight days in the wilderness, and settle the hongo.

For this triple business, I allowed three days, during which time, always eager to shoot something,
either for science or the pot, I killed a bicornis rhinoceros, at a distance of five paces
only, with my small 40-gauge Lancaster, as the beast stood quietly feeding in the bush; and
I also shot a bitch fox of the genus Octocyon lalandii, whose ill-omened cry often alarms the
natives by forewarning them of danger. This was rather tame sport; but next day I had better fun.

Starting in the early morning, accompanied by two of Sheikh Said's boys, Suliman and Faraj,
each carrying a rifle, while I carried a shot-gun, we followed a footpath to the westward in
the wilderness of Mgunda Mkhali. There, after walking a short while in the bush, as I heard
the grunt of a buffalo close on my left, I took "Blissett" in hand, and walked to where I soon
espied a large herd quietly feeding. They were quite unconscious of my approach, so I took
a shot at a cow, and wounded her; then, after reloading, put a ball in a bull and staggered
him also. This caused great confusion among them; but as none of the animals knew where the
shots came from, they simply shifted about in a fidgety manner, allowing me to kill the first
cow, and even fire a fourth shot, which sickened the great bull, and induced him to walk off,
leaving the herd to their fate, who, considerably puzzled, began moving off also.

I now called up the boys, and determined on following the herd down before either skinning
the dead cow or following the bull, who I knew could not go far. Their footprints being well
defined in the moist sandy soil, we soon found the herd again; but as they now knew they were
pursued, they kept moving on in short runs at a time, when, occasionally gaining glimpses of
their large dark bodies as they forced through the bush, I repeated my shots and struck a good
number, some more and some less severely. This was very provoking; for all of them being stern
shots were not likely to kill, and the jungle was so thick I could not get a front view of
them. Presently, however, one with her hind leg broken pulled up on a white-ant hill, and,
tossing her horns, came down with a charge the instant I showed myself close to her. One crack
of the rifle rolled her over, and gave me free scope to improve the bag, which was very soon
done; for on following the spoors, the traces of blood led us up to another one as lame as
the last. He then got a second bullet in the flank, and, after hobbling a little, evaded our
sight and threw himself into a bush, where we not sooner arrived than he plunged headlong at
us from his ambush, just, and only just, giving me time to present my small 40-gauge Lancaster.

It was a most ridiculous scene. Suliman by my side, with the instinct of a monkey, made a violent
spring and swung himself by a bough immediately over the beast, whilst Faraj bolted away and
left me single-gunned to polish him off. There was only one course to pursue, for in one instant
more he would have been into me; so, quick as thought, I fired the gun, and, as luck would
have it, my bullet, after passing through the edge of one of his horns, stuck in the spine
of his neck, and rolled him over at my feet as dead as a rabbit. Now, having cut the beast's
throat to make him "hilal," according to Mussulman usage, and thinking we had done enough if
I could only return to the first wounded bull and settle him too, we commenced retracing our
steps, and by accident came on Grant. He was passing by from another quarter, and became amused
by the glowing description of my boys, who never omitted to narrate their own cowardice as
an excellent tale. He begged us to go on in our course, whilst he would go back and send us
some porters to carry home the game.

Now, tracking back again to the first point of attack, we followed the blood of the first bull,
till at length I found him standing like a stuck pig in some bushes, looking as if he would
like to be put out of his miseries. Taking compassion, I levelled my Blisset; but, as bad luck
would have it, a bough intercepted the flight of the bullet, and it went "pinging" into the
air, whilst the big bull went off at a gallop. To follow on was no difficulty, the spoor was
so good; and in ten minutes more, as I opened on a small clearance, Blisset in hand, the great
beast, from the thicket on the opposite side, charged down like a mad bull, full of ferocity--as
ugly an antagonist as ever I saw, for the front of his head was all shielded with horn. A small
mound fortunately stood between us, and as he rounded it, I jumped to one side and let fly
at his flank, but without the effect of stopping him; for, as quick as thought, the huge monster
was at my feet, battling with the impalpable smoke of my gun, which fortunately hung so thick
on the ground at the height of his head that he could not see me, though I was so close that
I might, had I been possessed of a hatchet, have chopped off his head. This was a predicament
which looked very ugly, for my boys had both bolted, taking with them my guns; but suddenly
the beast, evidently regarding the smoke as a phantom which could not be mastered, turned round
in a bustle, to my intense relief, and galloped off at full speed, as if scared by some terrible
apparition. But do not go out without wearing helpless and my affection for
you. The abbey is rich, so is the abbot, and nothing can better spend their money. Take this
bag full of gold, Hugo, Captain of the Archers, is ordered to surrender my harnessed the best horses
in our stables there. Run, put on to escape from your weapons, and go horseback riding.

Shedding tears of gratitude and respectfully kissing his hands, said goodbye to Plácido the abbot
and he embraced him and blessed him.

Plácido rode two hours, alone and armed by a thick pine forest and
trail just trite, who was meandering along the banks of a stream,
between towering mountains.

III

Night came fearful and grim. In this solitude assaulted sad Plácido thousand ideas. The childhood memories
arose in his mind with unusual clarity.

He recalled that six years ago, had been thrown from another nursing home and toughness severely sick
different. From his childhood, from the dawn of life, that he had only very confusing memories
grew up in the castle of the terrible D. Fruela, powerful magnate of the mountain. The Castle
was at a height near the coast.

From there, now leaving D. Fruela with good shot people on horseback to penetrate and cut Moorish
lands and plunder as he could, now embarked its satellites in some whips and galleys of his
property, and was to hack or hunt to more cruel pirates who infested those seas and invaded and
ravaged often coasts of Spain, were idolaters Norman of Norway and
the last Tule.

Placido collected for charity at the castle, the son of unknown parents,
was raised with love for Dona Aldonza, Don Fruela women.

Until the age of eight, lived Plácido in fraternal familiarity with Elvira, the daughter of Dona
Aldonza, which was slightly less than age him.

Children played together, and together they learned to read and Christian doctrine.

Elvira placid and felt that their souls had united with the bond of
affection more innocent.

Something had to suspect or foresee D. Fruela, and ordered his wife to move away at the foundling
treatment and the coexistence of their daughter.

Dona Aldonza submissive, to comply with orders of her husband, but not to the extent of avoided
comprehensive than the small page, the child was seen or spoke.

The lower frequency of treatment produced an opposite effect to that D. Fruela wanted. In candid minds
of his and her worship was changed into affection, and brightened and beautified with the finery
and splendor of the dreams the image of the beloved.

So the two came to meet fourteen. On a day that went hunting with D. Fruela Elvira's horse ran rampant
and was lost in the dense forest. Placid followed her to save her, and happened to arrive when the
horse she was riding stumbled and fell, knocking on the floor.

Elvira, fortunately, was not the least harm. Plácido dismounted with light, came to his aid
and lifted her in his arms.

Instinctively, without knowing what they did, giving both a thoughtless
impulse, perhaps driven by the invisible spirits and spirits of the
jungle, approached their faces and they kissed.

Placido thought is briefly transported to paradise, but the reality was more cruel to show
at once that was in the hard and rough ground. An infamous rain lashes fell on their backs.
D. Fruela had surprised and affronted him punished and angry. The pack of hounds and hounds and
huntsmen they approached.

Insulted the boy, although such a tender age, not reflected in danger or in the unequal struggle,
and spear in hand lunged D. Fruela to kill him. Elvira was brought,
ready to receive the wounds and save his father. Plácido slid down
the spear. The humiliation made him shed bitter tears. 

The ferocious
D. Fruela, far from pity, he incited the dogs to devour him, and ordered
the hunters who shot his sharp arrows.

- Save yourself, Plácido,
save yourself - then said Elvira .-- If you do not run away, my body
will serve shield and kill me before they kill you.

Plácido then
knew how dangerous, impossible for the defense. Most feared for the
life of her than for yours. It was light and agile as a deer, he knew
the most intricate sites lost the most forest paths, and soon disappeared
as if by magic, but not cry before your child's voice, which was contrary
to the firmness of tone:

- Being a parent it has saved you from death.
Now I run, but perhaps one day to find you again push yourself and
your hand as one pleased my shame.

We had already been here too long. A report was now spread that a lion had killed one of the
chief's cows; and the Wagogo, suspecting that our being here was the cause of this ill luck,
threatened to attack us. This no sooner got noised over the camp than all my Wanyamuezi porters,
who had friends in Ugogo, left to live with them, and would not come back again even when the
"storm had blown over," because they did not like the incessant rains that half deluged the
camp. The chief, too, said he would not sell us his donkeys, lest we should give them back
to Mohinna, from whom they were taken during his fight here. Intrigues of all sorts I could
see were brewing, possibly at the instigation of the fugitive Wanyamuezi, who suspected we
were bound to side with the Arabs--possibly from some other cause, I could not tell what; so,
to clear out of this pandemonium as soon as possible I issued cloths to buy double rations,
intending to cross the wilderness by successive relays in double the ordinary number of days.
I determined at the same time to send forward two freed men to Kaze to ask Musa and the Arabs
to send me out some provisions and men to meet us half-way.

Matters grew worse and worse. The sultan, now finding me unable to move, sent a message to
say if I would not give him some better cloths to make his hongo more respectable, he would
attack my camp; and advised all the Wanyamuezi who regarded their lives not to go near me if
I resisted. This was by no means pleasant; for the porters showed their uneasiness by extracting
their own cloths from my bundles, under the pretext that they wished to make some purchases
of their own. I ought, perhaps, to have stopped this; but I thought the best plan was to show
total indifference; so, at the same time that they were allowed to take their cloths, I refused
to comply with the chief's request, and begged them to have no fear so long as they saw I could
hold my own ground with my guns.

The Wanyamuezi, however, were panic-stricken, and half of them bolted, with the kirangozi at
their head, carrying off all the double-ration cloths as well as their own. At this time, the
sultan, having changed tactics, as he saw us all ready to stand on the defensive, sent back
his hongo; but, instead of using threats, said he would oblige us with donkeys or anything
else if we would only give him a few more pretty cloths. With this cringing, perfidious appeal
I refused to comply, until the sheikh, still more cringing, implored me to give way else not
a single man would remain with me. I then told him to settle with the chief himself, and give
me the account, which amounted to three barsati, two sahari, and three yards merikani; but
the donkeys were never alluded to.

With half my men gone, I still ordered the march, though strongly opposed to the advice of
one of old Mamba's men, who was then passing by on his way to the coast, in command of his
master's rear detachment. He thought it impossible for us to pull through the wilderness, with
its jungle grasses and roots, depending for food only on Grant's gun and my own; still we made
half-way to the Mdaburu nullah, taking some of Mamba's out to camp with us, as he promised
to take letters and specimens down to the coast for us, provided I paid him some cloths as
ready money down, and promised some more to be paid at Zanzibar. These letters eventually reached
home, but not the specimens.

The rains were so heavy that the whole country was now flooded, but we pushed on to the nullah
by relays, and pitched on its left bank. In the confusion of the march, however, we lost many
more porters, who at the same time relieved us of their loads, by slipping off stealthily into
the bush.

The fifteenth was a forced halt, as the stream was so deep and so violent we could not cross
it. To make the best of this very unfortunate interruption, I now sent on two men to Kaze,
with letters to Musa and Sheikh Snay, both old friends on the former expedition, begging them
to send me sixty men, each carrying thirty rations of grain, and some country tobacco. The
tobacco was to gratify my men, who said of all things they most wanted to cheer them was something
to smoke. At the same time I sent back some other men to Khoko, with cloth to buy grain for
present consumption, as some of my porters were already reduced to living on wild herbs and
white ants. I then sent all the remaining men, under the directions of Bombay and Baraka, to
fell a tall tree with hatchets, on the banks of the nullah, with a view to bridging it; but
the tree dropped to the wrong side, and thwarted the plan. The rain ceased on the 17th, just
as we put the rain-gauge out, which was at once interpreted to be our Uganga, or religious
charm, and therefore the cause of its ceasing. It was the first fine day for a fortnight, so
we were only too glad to put all our things out to dry, and rejoiced to think of the stream's
subsiding. My men who went back to Khoko for grain having returned with next to nothing--though,
of course, they had spent all the cloths--I sent back another batch with pretty cloths, as
it was confidently stated that grain was so scarce there, nothing but the best fabrics would
but it. This also proved a dead failure; but although animals were very scarce, Grant relieved
our anxiety by shooting a zebra and an antelope.

After five halts, we forded the stream, middle deep, and pushed forwards again, doing short
stages of four or five miles a-day, in the greatest possible confusion; for, whilst Grant and
I were compelled to go out shooting all day for the pot, the sheikh and Bombay went on with
the first half of the property and then, keeping guard over it sent the men back again to Baraka,
who kept rear-guard, to have the rest brought on. Order there was none: the men hated this
"double work;" all the Wanyamuezi but three deserted, with the connivance of the coast-men,
carrying off their loads with them, under a mutual understanding, as I found out afterwards,
that the coast-men were to go shares in the plunder as soon as we reached Unyamuezi. The next
great obstacle in this tug-and-pull wilderness-march presented itself on the 24th, when, after
the first half of the property had crossed the Mabunguru nullah, it rose in flood and cut off
the rear half. It soon, however, subsided; and the next day we reached "the Springs," where
we killed a pig and two rhinoceros. Not content, however, with this fare--notwithstanding the
whole camp had been living liberally on zebra's and antelope's flesh every day previously--some
of my coast-men bolted on to the little settlement of Jiwa la Mkoa, contrary to orders, to
purchase some grain; and in doing so, increased our transport difficulties.

Pulling on in the same way again--when not actually engaged in shooting, scolding and storming
at the men, to keep them up to the mark, and prevent them from shirking their work, which they
were for every trying to do--we arrived on the 28th at the "Boss," a huge granite block, from
the top of which the green foliage of the forest-trees looked like an interminable cloud, soft
and waving, fit for fairies to dwell upon. Here the patience of my men fairly gave way, for
the village of Jiwa la Mkoa was only one long march distance from us; and they, in consequence,
smelt food on in advance much sweeter than the wild game and wild grasses they had been living
on; and many more of them could not resist deserting us, though they might, had we all pulled
together, have gone more comfortably in, as soon as the rear property arrived next day with Baraka.

All the men who deserted on the 25th, save Johur and Mutwana, now came into camp, and told
us they had heard from travellers that those men who had been sent on for reliefs to Kaze were
bringing us a large detachment of slaves to help us on. My men had brought no food either for
us or their friends, as the cloths they took with them, "which were their own," were scarcely
sufficient to purchase a meal--famines being as bad where they had been as in Ugogo. To try
and get all the men together again, I now sent off a party loaded with cloths to see what they
could get for us; but they returned on the 30th grinning and joking, with nothing but a small
fragment of goat-flesh, telling lies by the dozens. Johur then came into camp, unconscious
that Baraka by my orders had, during his absence, been inspecting his kit, where he found concealed
seventy-three yards of cloth, which could only have been my property, as Johur had brought
no akaba or reserve fund from the coast.

The theft having been proved to the satisfaction of every one, I ordered Baraka to strip him
of everything and give him three dozen lashes; but after twenty-one had been given, the rest
were remitted on his promising to turn Queen's evidence, when it transpired that Mutwana had
done as much as himself. Johur, it turned out, was a murderer, having obtained his freedom
by killing his master. He was otherwise a notoriously bad character; so, wishing to make an
example, as I knew all my men were robbing me daily, though I could not detect them, I had
him turned out of camp. Baraka was a splendid detective, and could do everything well when
he wished it, so I sent him off now with cloths to see what he could to at Jiwa la Mkoa, and
next day he returned triumphantly driving in cows and goats. Three Wanyamuezi, also, who heard
we were given to shooting wild animals continually, came with him to offer their services as
porters.

As nearly all the men had now returned, Grant and I spent New Year's Day with the first detachment
at Jiwa la Mkoa, or Round Rock--a single tembe village occupied by a few Wakimbu settlers,
who, by their presence and domestic habits, made us feel as though we were well out of the
wood. So indeed we found it; for although this wilderness was formerly an entire forest of
trees and wild animals, numerous Wakimbu, who formerly occupied the banks of the Ruaha to the
southward, had been driven to migrate here, wherever they could find springs of water, by the
boisterous naked pastorals the Warori.

At night three slaves belonging to Sheikh Salem bin Saif stole into our camp, and said they
had been sent by their master to seek for porters at Kaze, as all the Wanyamuezi porters of
four large caravans had deserted in Ugogo, and they could not move. I was rather pleased by
this news, and thought it served the merchants right, knowing, as I well did, that the Wanyamuezi,
being naturally honest, had they not been defrauded by foreigners on the down march to the
coast, would have been honest still. Some provisions were now obtained by sending men out to
distant villages; but we still supplied the camp with our guns, killing rhinoceros, wild boar,
antelope, and zebras. The last of our property did not come up till the 5th, when another thief
being caught, got fifty lashes, under the superintendence of Baraka, to show that punishment
was only inflicted to prevent further crime.

The next day my men came from Kaze with letters from Sheikh Snay and Musa. They had been detained
there some days after arrival, as those merchants' slaves had gone to Utambara to settle some
quarrel there; but as soon as they returned, Musa ordered them to go and assist us, giving
them beads to find rations for themselves on the way, as the whole country about Kaze had been
half-starved by famines, though he did send a little rice and tobacco for me. The whole party
left Kaze together; but on arrival at Tura the slaves said they had not enough beads and would
return for some more, when they would follow my men. This bit of news was the worst that could
have befallen us; my men were broken-hearted enough before, and this drove the last spark of
spirit out of them. To make the best of a bad job, I now sent Bombay with two other men off
to Musa to see what he could do, and ordered my other men to hire Wakimbu from village to village.
On the 7th, a nervous excitement was produced in the camp by some of my men running in and
calling all to arm, as the fugitive chief Manua Sera was coming, with thirty armed followers
carrying muskets. Such was the case: and by the time my men were all under arms, with their
sword-bayonets fixed, drawn up by my tent the veritable "Tippler" arrived; but, not liking
the look of such a formidable array as my men presented, he passed on a short way, and then
sent back a deputation to make known his desire of calling on me, which was no sooner complied
with than he came in person, attended by a body-guard. On my requesting him to draw near and
sit, his wooden stool was placed for him. He began the conversation by telling me he had heard
of my distress from want of porters, and then offered to assist me with some, provided I would
take him to Kaze, and mediate between him and the Arabs; for, through their unjustifiable interference
in his government affairs, a war had ensued, which terminated with the Arabs driving him from
his possessions a vagabond. Manua Sera, I must say, was as fine a young man as ever I looked
upon. He was very handsome, and looked as I now saw him the very picture of a captain of the
banditti of the romances. I begged him to tell me his tale, and, in compliance, he gave me
the following narrative:--

"Shortly after you left Kaze for England, my old father, the late chief Fundi Kira, died, and
by his desire I became lawful chief; for, though the son of a slave girl, and not of Fundi
Kira's wife, such is the law of inheritance--a constitutional policy established to prevent
any chance of intrigues between the sons born in legitimate wedlock. Well, after assuming the
title of chief, I gave presents of ivory to all the Arabs with a liberal hand, but most so
to Musa, which caused great jealousy amongst the other merchants. Then after this I established
a property tax on all merchandise that entered my country. Fundi Kira had never done so, but
I did not think that any reason why I should not, especially as the Arabs were the only people
who lived in my country exempt from taxation. This measure, however, exasperated the Arabs,
and induced them to send me hostile messages, to the effect that, if I ever meddled with them,
they would dethrone me, and place Mkisiwa, another illegitimate son, on the throne in my stead.
This," Manua Sera continued, "I could not stand; the merchants were living on sufferance only
in my country. I told them so, and defied them to interfere with my orders, for I was not a
'woman,' to be treated with contempt; and this got up a quarrel. Mkisiwa, seizing at the opportunity
of the prize held out to him by the Arabs as his supporters, then commenced a system of bribery.
Words led to blows; we had a long and tough fight; I killed many of their number, and they
killed mine. Eventually they drove me from my palace, and placed Mkisiwa there as chief in
my stead. My faithful followers however, never deserted me; so I went to Rubuga, and put up
with old Maula there. The Arabs followed--drove me to Nguru, and tried to kill Maula for having
fostered me. He, however, escaped them; but they destroyed his country, and then followed me
down to Nguru. There we fought for many months, until all provisions were exhausted, when I
defied them to catch me, and forced my way through their ranks. It is needless to say I have
been a wanderer since; and though I wish to make friends, they will not allow it, but do all
they can to hunt me to death. Now, as you were a friend of my father, I do hope you will patch
up this war for me, which you must think is unjust."

I told Manua Sera I felt very much for him, and I would do my best if he would follow me to
Kaze; but I knew that nothing could ever be done unless he returned to the free-trade principles
of his father. He then said he had never taken a single tax from the Arabs, and would gladly
relinquish his intention to do so. The whole affair was commenced in too great a hurry; but
whatever happened he would gladly forgive all if I would use my influence to reinstate him,
for by no other means could he ever get his crown back again. I then assured him that I would
do what I could to restore the ruined trade of his country, observing that, as all the ivory
that went out of his country, came to ours, and all imports were productions of our country
also, this war injured us as well as himself. Manua Sera seemed highly delighted, and said
he had a little business to transact in Ugogo at present, but he would overtake me in a few
days. He then sent me one of my runaway porters, whom he had caught in the woods making off
with a load of my beads. We then separated; and Baraka, by my orders, gave the thief fifty
lashes for his double offence of theft and desertion.

On the 9th, having bought two donkeys and engaged several men, we left Jiwa la Mkoa, with half
our traps, and marched to Garaeswi, where, to my surprise, there were as many as twenty tembes--a
recently-formed settlement of Wokimbu. Here we halted a day for the rear convoy, and then went
on again by detachments to Zimbo, where, to our intense delight, Bombay returned to us on the
13th, triumphantly firing guns, with seventy slaves accompanying him, and with letters from
Snay and Musa, in which they said they hoped, if I met with Manua Sera, that I would either
put a bullet through his head, or else bring him in a prisoner, that they might do for him,
for the scoundrel had destroyed all their trade by cutting off caravans. Their fights with
him commenced by his levying taxes in opposition to their treaties with his father, Fundi Kira,
and then preventing his subjects selling them grain.

Once more the whole caravan moved on; but as I had to pay each of the seventy slaves sixteen
yards of cloth, by order of their masters, in the simple matter of expenditure it would have
been better had I thrown ten loads away at Ugogo, where my difficulties first commenced. On
arrival at Mgongo Thembo--the Elephant's Back--called so in consequence of a large granitic
rock, which resembles the back of that animal, protruding through the ground--we found a clearance
in the forest, of two miles in extent, under cultivation. Here the first man to meet me was
the fugitive chief of Rubuga, Maula. This poor old man--one of the honestest chiefs in the
country--had been to the former expedition a host and good friend. He now gave me a cow as
a present, and said he would give me ten more if I would assist him in making friends with
the Arabs, who had driven him out of his country, and had destroyed all his belongings, even
putting a slave to reign in his stead, though he had committed no fault of intentional injury
towards them. It was true Manua Sera, their enemy, had taken refuge in his palace, but that
was not his fault; for, anticipating the difficulties that would arise, he did his best to
keep Manua Sera out of it, but Manua Sera being too strong for him, forced his way in. I need
not say I tried to console this unfortunate victim of circumstances as best I could, inviting
him to go with me to Kaze, and promising to protect him with my life if he feared the Arabs;
but the old man, being too feeble to travel himself, said he would send his son with me.

Next day we pushed on a double march through the forest, and reached a nullah. As it crosses
the track in a southerly direction, this might either be the head of the Kululu mongo or river,
which, passing through the district of Kiwele, drains westward into the Malagarazi river, and
thence into the Tanganyika, or else the most westerly tributary to the Ruaha river, draining
eastward into the sea. The plateau, however, is apparently so flat here, that nothing b a minute
survey, or rather following the watercourse, could determine the matter. Then emerging from
the wilderness, we came into the open cultivated district of Tura, or "put down"--called so
by the natives because it was, only a few years ago, the first cleared space in the wilderness,
and served as a good halting-station, after the normal ten day's march in the jungles, where
we had now been struggling more than a month.

The whole place, once so fertile, was now almost depopulated and in a sad state of ruin, showing
plainly the savage ravages of war; for the Arabs and their slaves, when they take the field,
think more of plunder and slavery than the object they started on--each man of the force looking
out for himself. The incentives, too, are so great;--a young woman might be caught (the greatest
treasure of earth), or a boy or a girl, a cow or a goat--all of the fortunes, of themselves
too irresistible to be overlooked when the future is doubtful. Here Sheikh Said broke down
in health of a complaint which he formerly had suffered from, and from which I at once saw
he would never recover sufficiently well to be ever effective again. It was a sad misfortune,
as the men had great confidence in him, being the representative of their Zanzibar government:
still it could not be helped; for, as a sick man is, after all, the greatest possible impediment
to a march, it was better to be rid of him than have the trouble of dragging him; so I made
up my mind, as soon as we reached Kaze, I would drop him there with the Arabs. He could not
be moved on the 16th, so I marched across the plain and put up in some villages on its western
side. Whilst waiting for the sheikh's arrival, some villagers at night stole several loads
of beads, and ran off with them; but my men, finding the theft out in time, hunted them down,
and recovered all but one load--for the thieves had thrown their loads down as soon as they
found they were hotly pursued.

Early this morning I called all the head men of the village together, and demanded the beads
to be restored to me; for, as I was living with them, they were responsible, according to the
laws of the country. They acknowledged the truth and force of my demand, and said they would
each give me a cow as an earnest, until their chief, who was absent, arrived. This, of course,
was objected to, as the chief, in his absence, must have deputed some one to govern for him,
and I expected him to settle at once, that I might proceed with the march. Then selecting five
of my head men to conduct the case, with five of their elders, it was considered my losses
were equivalent to thirty head of cattle. Therefore, without renewal of the materials the
body, without eating, sleeping, drinking, dressing, eternally the same, with nothing to think
about, with nothing to do - outside yawn grass - without love, without hatred, no children,
no day without night, no good without evil, no thought and no action, ie without conduct - the
most boring sort of life that has been possible to imagine, or hungry and thirst, and sleep and
I hate heat and cold night and inexhaustible, that is, the more absurd.

Since life is unlimited imaginary imaginary construction, real life, with its joys and sorrows
transient, is nothing but a prologue or introduction to the happiness or perpetual misery,
with the result that "the dead are the living and the living are Dead, in the words of A. France,
or rather, is a trocatintas, because the living can work in the other world, bringing souls in
purgatory, for example, and the dead can do all things of this world, to provide her husband
with "the daughters of Mary that it San Expedito ask, when in a hurry.

But,

since the major objectives of man, intoxicated with terrors and hopes for the afterlife, they came
to be out of this world, this world was out of the spotlight men, and therefore, natural laws,
which have provided the wonderful resources of modern civilization in the middle ages were outside
the scope of human understanding fully absorbed by the anguished concern entities and things supernatural
dazzled by the mirage of the other world to give back to real life and the front to the imaginary life,
believing that the highest and noble ambition of man was to "sit eternally at the right hand
of God the Father ", after his death, which was stupid degrading and vile all longing for happiness
before he died.

And the real world, stigmatized as one of the four enemies of the soul, was ignored until the
dawn of modern times as it spread beyond the monomania of which made medieval Europe a mere
variant of contemporary China, as if this man living for the dead man lived in it for after
death.

GOD'S WORD

In summary, our mental ancestry, gradually highlighting the patchwork of religions, theogonies
mythologies and the distant past, came to be worded as follows:

God had made men for heaven, but so to is lost in the land, and the devil, seizing the opportunity
by the horns, had won for hell.

So to not be alone in heaven, God came down to earth, chose from among all the people to yes
and dictated its terms, which were forgotten, so later he sent a ad hoc child a second message.

The
official guardians of the first word of God ignored the God child
carrier the second, he was arrested, tried, sentenced and executed
by infringing on the laws of God the Father.

But others picked up on it and built the church, the house of God the Son, against the synagogue,
the house of God the Father.

God spoke to Moses between lightning and thunder, if not yet known rights of man and the duties
of the father who had children and wives, slaves, donkeys, oxen and goats to explode, killing
or sale, had spoken as a Jewish patriarch, the king selfishness, establishing, first, the
obligation to love him above all things of the world, which still must be abandoned by those who
want to serve in all rule, the most burdensome of all the charges
that have weighed on the conscience of man, duty has produced more
human than sticks, torture and killings, more tears and suffering,
more misery and more customary imbecility.

And because God had committed the indiscretion of talking, the man had to be silent in perpetuity
or speak only to repeat like a parrot with no feathers, the Divine Word, who became the Nessus
robe of human intelligence. And thirty-two generations of men passed under the Christian era in poverty,
ignorance and barbarism chronic, uttering or hearing only the sacred word, fulminated from the
pulpit, volcano hazards, in perpetual eruption punishment in this world and the other for the
sinners and infidels, an inexhaustible source imaginary terrors to
implant in the heart of the elect for heaven horror indispensable
to life and the fear of inevitable death.

And condemned by the Church with terrible punishment in the afterlife and the civil power penalties
atrocious for the bereaved in this, the suicide, which has been in far Japan, as it was in ancient
Rome, a limit to suffering and therefore to human cruelty, disappeared from European customs
and arrive, then the suffering and cruelty to the maximum consecutive its extent possible, was a
hundred times at once, for no additional invention of the instruments of torture, the power of despots
on the temporal and spiritual believer placed between the devil and
hell, and forced to surrender with all lowliness and humiliation and
penalties rather than face the awful eternity.

God had thought, and thought of God - non plus ultra, in itself - paralyzed from a stroke reason
and human thought, then, as the all-powerful, God was not obliged to be reasonable, nor fair,
neither good nor right, and whatever it was, the men were obliged
to blindly obey, on pain of eternal damnation, as the pope, nor is
bound to be the wisest of men and also have the right to be infallible.

Human

reason and void for the purpose of human life came to be on the understanding believer of the
appendix in the intestine of civilized man: a superfluous body, since he had no specific function.

And
then came to Christianity those dark and miserable ten centuries
of age average, divine thought strict diet, in which human intelligence
gave no single step forward, stuck in the mental paralysis of the
Muslims and the same circumstances: Everything was thought out, everything
was resolved, it was all said everything was written in advance by
the prophets and apostles by the dictation or inspiration of God,
and sanctioned with horrible punishment.

For the theologians of all varieties, respectively burned alive those who thought differently than them,
and God was in the Middle Ages the king of theologians, waiting other souls from death to judge
his intentions and thoughts, and precipitate into the eternal fire, if they differed from his,
as though Jesus himself had said: "Do unto others what you would
have them do unto you ", this did not pray with him or his father
or his theologians that the "home of the blacksmith, wooden knife."

THE BREEDER AND ITS CREATURES

At all times the servility of the governed has been particularly pleasing to the rulers and
especially rewarded by them, and at all times has been given to the
tycoons imaginary with the food most desired by the wealthy real.

The idea of ​​standing before the mighty and humble to the humble, that man doing gentle with women,
children soft and hard with the villains, is suppressing whip in
schools, prisons and chains in the club at home, this idea array of
contemporary civilization, derived from the principle of equality
of all men, is a new concept of personality from the human right,
as opposed divine right and clearly expressed by Jaures the February
11, 1895, in the chamber Members of France in these terms: "If God
appeared before the crowd as palpable, the first duty of man would
refuse him obedience, and consider it as an equal with whom things
have to be discussed, not as a master to whom we submit.

"

Until the modern age, the faithful and penitent pricked penetrated the house of God beg on their
knees, confessing their sins, kissing the ground and beating their breasts. Some Protestant
sects, removing seats and making prostrations, initiated input human dignity in the temple, four centuries
before it was abandoned in Spain and America the traditional obligation of the child daily,
to ask the father's blessing hands in supplication and kneeling on the floor.

In some sections of the American behind, yet, when they have God with
bells through the streets to sell to a dying man, passersby and neighbors,
prostrate knees, as the subjects of the Eastern potentates to the
passage of their respective despot.

At the time that flourished early Christian theologians, the most abject servility, servility
refined subtle oriental Greek decadence, it was fashionable in the world, which stood temples
to the reigning emperors to worship, and to deify God in the forms of time, Christians took
the ceremonial of the fear of his master celestial to the limits
as possible, to the fullest extent of the disgusting and absurdity,
as if God had "made men in his image" to be his antithesis, pear sacrifice
a burnt offering himself as Saturn to their children, to degrade,
capricious omnipotence raised its highest in the second life to that
of "motu proprio" had fallen lower and dirty in the first, as if the
men had received the existence of black letter, not to enjoy it, but
for that they suffered as a sentence of shame, for "the crime of being
born of original sin."

And by flattened and depressed to enlarge God, men were reduced to
zero, those common to zero, the "Lord's anointed" to zero on the right
of the almighty "Single source of all power and all authority in heaven
and on earth", only accessible their religious magic creatures and
through his Church, which, thus bringing its reason for being and
worth of the professed omnipotence of God and submissive helplessness
man, was fatally needed to maintain these conditions of its existence
survival: superstition, credulity and ignorance are the three main
components poverty of spirit, and doomed to fail from the moment and
to the extent that their Pupils find other sources of power and assert
different from yours and more effective than his, as is precisely
the case of science and secular civilization, which, just encountered,
have suddenly risen from man's natural ability to overcome difficulties
of life, in ways derived from human intelligence, and reduced faith
in the power the dead to help the living, half, third or a tenth of
what it was.

At the height of its lethal effect on the human spirit, the doctrine of the flattening of living for
the enlargement of the dead, so considerably lessened capacity to Christian thought and action
in this world, the Arabs and the Turks, coming out of your barren deserts to promote a new and
fresh on another sliver fanaticism same trunk, entered Christianity as wolves in sheep herd
of sheep, and took a clean sweep from Asia Minor, Egypt and North Africa until further into the Pyrenees,
Austria and Poland, where they were stopped by a rest of human energy, bran providentialism flooding
in those towns in the northwest, which were in worship Aboriginal individual manhood on faith
in themselves, the yeast of the practicality, which sprouted later, the ingredients of self-government,
self help and self control, first outbreaks of human capacity for
human life and human initiative, which posed to the Netherlands and
England in the seventeenth century the rule of the world was the sixteenth
of Spain, twice emaciated by the eight centuries of Muslim and Catholic
fatalism while, on the faith in the help of Jesus and Mohammed and
the four subsequent fatalism pure Catholic, on trust in the help of
the Virgin and the saints guardians.

THE POTTER AND CANTAROS

"Christian theology, in its main character, was more outspoken during the period calamity that
has passed through the human species in historical times, says Cotter Morison in his masterful
Service of Man The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is still the most greatest catastrophe known,
the gradual death of the ancient world for five centuries long. All evil afflicted humanity during
that terrible time: arbitrary power, the most cruel and devoid of remorse, a Treasury occlusal,
who finally exterminated the wealth, pestilence, that became endemic and depopulated whole provinces,
and, to crown all, a series of invasions of barbarian hordes that swept over the country as a consuming
fire. It was at this age that the foundations of Christian theology were settled - the theology
of councils and parents .-- The conception of God, his relationship
and dealings with the world was outspoken in a society groaning under
oppression, misery and sorrow without example.

No need to say, was an age of great and almost morbid cruelty games circus was a constant
discipline inhuman passions ...

... "The cruelty, injustice and arbitrary power were too familiar to be shocking, too consistent
to have them by the transient and accidental. The world saw dark was taken as a forecast model
and ideal world beyond the grave. God was a powerful emperor, Diocletian and Constantine a landmark,
making his home with his own. Ran to his edicts through space and time, his punishment was
eternal and whatever it was, his justice could not be discussed. And so these words came to be
written: "He had mercy on those who wanted to have it, and it was hard to who declined to be soft.
You tell me why find fault? For who has resisted his will? Now, oh, man! Who are you to reply
against God? Will the thing formed say to that formed why hast thou done so? Did not the potter
power over the clay to make the same piece a vessel of honor and another for dishonor? "which
has probably contributed more to the human misery than any other man speech output. The teaching
of St. Paul fell on fertile soil. For nearly 1,500 years of human consciousness did not feel shocked
by it.

Since the birth of Arminian theology has been a gradual and growing
revulsion feelings, and now he says flatly that "the potter no right
to be angry against their pitchers.

If different had wanted to make them different. "Claims an "omnipotent demon wishing to be completed"
as all-merciful, when exerting the most perverse cruelty, are no longer allowed in shocked silence.
But if great difficulty of hell and eternal punishment was happily overcome, there remain, in
the whole scheme of Christian redemption, moral iniquities and detours that no man well of this,
whatever their religion or theology, would be guilty. The notion that God wanted to be prompted
by the death of Christ is totally innocent low natural barbarous ages rude when costly sacrifices
were a recognized to appease angry gods, but repellent now. Hardly the most depraved man,
in his right mind, would accept the punishment of an innocent person instead of that would have
offended. A high-spirited man suffer almost anything rather than face such enormity.

"The idea is barbaric, well worthy of that conception of justice of the Chinese happy If the player
gets an individual to operate, but indifferent to who is to blame or not. However, this cruel
and barbaric notion is central to the Christian religion, at least
I understand that not yet been found to be out of writing.

Satan can still annoy theologians to loose in this world or the next. When they have their eternal
role Esplanade tormenting souls in hell, they have to clarify their foreign temporary distractions
on earth, and explain how they can be allowed by a merciful God. For an angel fallen, extensive
skill, subtlety and malice, he is permitted to tempt men and women, even children, to commit
sin, away from Christ, jeopardizing his hopes of paradise. And he who allows this, is supposed
to detest sin. If I had desired that abound, what else could have done to stop the Archfiend,
aided by legions of lower hell, go like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour, with constant
access men, even to the inside of your mind, whispering evil thoughts, stimulating, and yet, often
isolated by holy prayer, always renewing its attacks on poor souls, till the last moment of
mortal agony, triumph more often than failing in drag to his place of torment? The request
of Christ, "not induce us into temptation but deliver us from evil, "has never been heard or
has never been conceived. We are always induced to temptation, we are never free from evil
on this side of death's door. A being supernatural human happiness sank in paradise and brought
sin and death the world, is appointed to the office to tempt men, at all times, in all places
during life; able to get into the minds of his victims and pervert his soul in society and solitude,
in the dream, even in prayer, capable of taking all the costumes, even appear as an angel
of light. The most artful seducer and vile human is limited in terms of time and opportunity
to corrupt the innocent. Satan is constant and invisible accesses. Now, a parent or guardian
to allow children to associate with poor charge characters would be justly condemned as lacking
the sense of duty and humanity. But God allows something infinitely worse, for all the difference
going from an immortal spirit the most profligate of the tempting land. That a human father try
and imagine the distress that would see his innocent, inexperienced daughter's arm and fascinating
compliment seductive. Would not it be your first step, put an end to such mischief trade? Do not forgive
widely public violence on their part if it appears that the designs of villain had been crowned
with success lamentable? However, it is understood that the father heaven sees this and much
worse every hour and every minute of the day sees the young, the weak, the destitute, robbed
by a supernatural tempter, his own child, his rebel angel entirely
wrong and evil, and sees him succeed in his company to ruin souls.

And then the betrayed, the poor human victim is punished, not the devil. "

Outlawing the use of modern intelligence to modern life, the Church is enabled to continue to
explain the facts of this with the intelligence of the past and may coin and the faithful really binding,
with errors, lies and absurdities, can make up dogmas of faith on the inexplicable, the unknown
and incomprehensible about the past and future of human existence. Hence, theologians have always
distinguished, as Buckle says, for his deep knowledge of things that we know nothing.

This is also why the dogmas of the past to save the soul is the future have to swallow integers,
as the castor oil capsules, for which chews, vomits and loses the drug: "The first thing that
has disgusted me to the religion which professed to seriousness of a solid and consistent
spirit is the universal condemnation of those who know or ignored, says Mme. Roland, in his
memoirs. When nourished by history, I had faced the extension of the world, the succession
of ages, the march of empires, the virtues public, the mistakes of many nations, it seemed
petty, ridiculous, outrageous, the idea an operator that delivers to eternal torment to those countless
individuals, weak construction their hands, thrown on the ground amid the many dangers and night
of ignorance of which have suffered so much already. I'm embarrassed about this article, it
is clear, "I'm not also on someone else? Examine. From the moment that a Catholic has made this
argument, the Church can consider it lost. I see exactly why the priests want a subservience
and so ardently preach the religious faith that takes no consideration and worship without murmur,
it is the foundation of his empire, and it is lost since it was reasonable. "

FAITH AND REASON

At first glance surprising survival of such great moral and intellectual nonsense next to the
great extensions contributed to human understanding and positive discipline of modern civilization.

But
is that those enormities represent the ideal of justice of the ages preceding present civilization.


The startling news set the place in a blaze, and brought all the Arabs again to seek my advice
for they condemned what Snay had done in not listening to me before, and wished to know if
I could not now treat for them with Manua Sera, which they thought could be easily managed,
as Manua Sera himself was not only the first to propose mediation, but was actually on his
way here for the purpose when Snay opposed him. I said nothing could give me greater pleasure
than mediating for them, to put a stop to these horrors, but it struck me the case had now
gone too far. Snay, in opposition to my advice, was bent on fighting; he could not be recalled
and unless all the Arabs were of one mind, I ran the risk of committing myself to a position
I could not maintain. To this they replied that the majority were still at Kaze, all wishing
for peace at any price, and that whatever terms I might wish to dictate they would agree to.
Then I said, "What would you do with Mkisiwa? you have made him chief, and cannot throw him
over." "Oh, that," they said, "can be easily managed; for formerly, when we confronted Manua
Sera at Nguru, we offered to give him as much territory as his father governed, though not
exactly in the same place; but he treated our message with disdain, not knowing then what a
fix he was in. Now, however, as he has seen more, and wishes for peace himself, there can be
no difficulty." I then ordered two of my men to go with two of Musa's to acquaint Manua Sera
with what we were about, and to know his views on the subject; but these men returned to say
Manua Sera could not be found, for he was driven from "pillar to post" by the different native
chiefs, as, wherever he went, his army ate up their stores, and brought nothing but calamities
with them. Thus died this second attempted treaty. Musa then told me it was well it turned
out so; for Manua Sera would never believe the Arabs, as they had broken faith so often before,
even after exchanging blood by cutting incision in one another's legs--the most sacred bond
or oath the natives know of.

As nothing more of importance was done, I set out with Grant to have a week's shooting in the
district, under the guidance of an old friend, Fundi Sangoro, Musa's "head gamekeeper," who
assured me that the sable antelope and blanc boc, specimens of which I had not yet seen, inhabited
some low swampy place called N'yama, or "Meat," not far distant, on the left bank of the Wale
nullah. My companion unfortunately got fever here, and was prevented from going out, and I
did little better; for although I waded up to my middle every day, and wounded several blanc
boc, I only bagged one, and should not have got even him, had it not happened that some lions
in the night pulled him down close to our camp, and roared so violently that they told us the
story. The first thing in the morning I wished to have at them; but they took the hint of daybreak
to make off, and left me only the half of the animal. I saw only one sable antelope. We all
went back to Kaze, arriving there on the 24th.

25th to 13th.--Days rolled on, and nothing was done in particular--beyond increasing my stock
of knowledge of distant places and people, enlarging my zoological collection, and taking long
series of astronomical observations--until the 13th, when the whole of Kaze was depressed by
a sad scene of mourning and tears. Some slaves came in that night--having made their way through
the woods from Ugogo, avoiding the track to save themselves from detection--and gave information
that Snay, Jafu, and five other Arabs, had been killed, as well as a great number of slaves.
The expedition, they said, had been defeated, and the positions were so complicated nobody
knew what to do. At first the Arabs achieved two brilliant successes, having succeeded in killing
Hori Hori of Khoko, when they recovered their ivory, made slaves of all they could find, and
took a vast number of cattle; then attacking Usekhe they reduced that place to submission by
forcing a ransom out of its people. At this period, however, they heard that a whole caravan,
carrying 5000 dollars' worth of property, had been cut up by the people of Mzanza, a small
district ten miles north of Usekhe; so, instead of going on to Kanyenye to relieve the caravans
which were waiting there for them, they foolishly divided their forces into three parts. Of
these they sent one to take their loot back to Kaze, another to form a reserve force at Mdaburu,
on the east flank of the wilderness, and a third, headed by Snay and Jafu, to attack Mzanza.
At the first onset Snay and Jafu carried everything before them, and became so excited over
the amount of their loot that they lost all feelings of care or precaution.

In this high exuberance of spirits, a sudden surprise turned their momentary triumph into a
total defeat; for some Wahumba, having heard the cries of the Wagogo, joined in their cause,
and both together fell on the Arab force with such impetuosity that the former victors were
now scattered in all directions. Those who could run fast enough were saved--the rest were
speared to death by the natives. Nobody knew how Jafu fell; but Snay, after running a short
distance, called one of his slaves, and begged him to take his gun, saying, "I am too old to
keep up with you; keep this gun for my sake, for I will lie down here and take my chance."
He never was seen again. But this was not all their misfortunes; for the slaves who brought
in this information had met the first detachment, sent with the Khoko loot, at Kigua, where,
they said, the detachment had been surprised by Manua Sera, who, having fortified a village
with four hundred men, expecting this sort of thing, rushed out upon them, and cut them all up.

The Arabs, after the first burst of their grief was over, came to me again in a body, and begged
me to assist them, for they were utterly undone. Manua Sera prevented their direct communication
with their detachment at Mdaburu, and that again was cut off from their caravans at Kanyenye
by the Mzanza people, and in fact all the Wagogo; so they hoped at least I would not forsake
them, which they heard I was going to do, as Manua Sera had also threatened to attack Kaze.
I then told them, finally that their proposals were now beyond my power, for I had a duty to
perform as well as themselves, and in a day or two I should be off.

14th to 17th.--On the 14th thirty-nine porters were brought in from Rungua by Musa's men, who
said they had collected one hundred and twenty, and brought them to within ten miles of this,
when some travellers frightened all but thirty-nine away, by telling them, "Are you such fools
as to venture into Kaze now? all the Arabs have been killed, or were being cut up and pursued
by Manua Sera." This sad disappointment threw me on my "beam-ends." For some reason or other
none of Musa's slaves would take service, and the Arabs prevented theirs from leaving the place,
as it was already too short of hands. To do the best under these circumstances, I determined
on going to Rungua with what kit could be carried, leaving Bombay behind with Musa until such
time as I should arrive there, and, finding more men, could send them back for the rest. I
then gave Musa the last of the gold watches the Indian Government had given me; [9] and, bidding
Sheikh Said take all our letters and specimens back to the coast as soon as the road was found
practicable, set out on the march northwards with Grant and Baraka, and all the rest of my
men who were well enough to carry loads, as well as some of Musa's head men, who knew where
to get porters.

After passing Masange and Zimbili, we put up a night in the village of Iviri, on the northern
border of Unyanyembe, and found several officers there, sent by Mkisiwa, to enforce a levy
of soldiers to take the field with the Arabs at Kaze against Manua Sera; to effect which, they
walked about ringing bells, and bawling out that if a certain percentage of all the inhabitants
did not muster, the village chief would be seized, and their plantations confiscated. Placido had to achieve
brilliant success. Had made a devout and inspired Latin hymn to the Blessed Virgin Mary, so full
of beauty and so rich in mystical love, which excited the monks, had sung in the choir, giving
the young poet a thousand praises and blessings.

His bad fellow, eager to humiliate him, and perhaps trusting that Placido was peaceful and
suffered, they confronted him, but he withdrew them with gentleness and modesty, and reached two
of the most insolent to the last extremity of the injury.

Recalling the dark its origin, cast in face and called her mother the most infamous way.

The lamb then became suddenly brave lion. For that, he had no weapons, but earned her fists. With
accurate and blow knocked to the ground, battered and with his mouth
bleeding, the first thing he had offended.

Then he just kept fighting against other three or four, leaning against the wall and harassed
by them.

It was so fast that nobody had come to intervene and restore peace
when other novices of noble French ancestry, participated in the contest,
saying:

- It is cowardice that you go so many against him depart,
Leave them to me alone, I will chasten him as deserves.

It was so compelling voice was so impressive the gesture of the boy, who turned aside all forming
wide circle around him.

French then came on plates, which stopped the blows dealt him, without receiving none, and girded
him with terrible force in his sinewy arms.

Astonishing was the fight. Both remained strong. No let up or fell.
Have in fashion two bronze statues, if he had not felt the panting
of the tired breath fighters and if he had not been running and the
sweat on his cheeks burning.

Who knows how that battle was over!
Mal was over, no doubt, had it not abbot abruptly and gets to the
point apart. All the country is
richly cultivated, though Indian corn at that time was the only grain ripe. The square, flat-topped
tembes had now been left behind, and instead the villagers lived in small collections of grass
huts, surrounded by palisades of tall poles.

Proceeding on we put up at the small settlement of Usenda, the proprietor of which was a semi-negro
Arab merchant called Sangoro. He had a large collection of women here, but had himself gone
north with a view to trade in Karague. Report, however, assured us that he was then detained
in Usui by Suwarora, its chief, on the plea of requiring his force of musketeers to prevent
the Watuta from pillaging his country, for these Watuta lived entirely on plunder of other
people's cattle.

With one move, by alternately crossing strips of forest and cultivation, studded here and there
with small hills of granite, we forded the Qaunde nullah--a tributary to the Gombe--and entered
the rich flat district of Mininga, where the gingerbread-palm grows abundantly. The greatest
man we found here was a broken-down ivory merchant called Sirboko, who gave us a good hut to
live in. Next morning, I believe at the suggestion of my Wanguana, with Baraka at their head,
he induced me to stop there; for he said Rungua had been very recently destroyed by the Watuta,
and this place could afford porters better than it. To all appearance this was the case, for
this district was better cultivated than any place I had seen. I also felt a certain inclination
to stop, as I was dragging on sick men, sorely against my feelings; and I also thought I had
better not go farther away from my rear property; but, afraid of doing wrong in not acting
up to Musa's directions, I called up his head men who were with me, and asked them what they
thought of the matter, as they had lately come from Rungua. On their confirming Sirboki's story,
and advising my stopping, I acceded to their recommendation, and immediately gave Musa's men
orders to look out for porters.

Hearing this, all my Wanguana danced with delight; and I, fearing there was some treachery,
called Musa's men again, saying I had changed my mind, and wished to go on in the afternoon;
but when the time came, not one of our porters could be seen. There was now no help for it;
so, taking it coolly, I gave Musa's men presents, begged them to look sharp in getting the
men up, and trusted all would end well in the long-run. Sirboko's attentions were most warm
and affecting. He gave us cows, rice, and milk, with the best place he had to live in, and
looked after us as constantly and tenderly as if he had been our father. It seemed quite unjust
to harbour any suspicion against him.

He gave the following account of himself:--He used to trade in ivory, on account of some Arabs
at Zanzibar. On crossing Usui, he once had a fight with one of the chiefs of the country and
killed him; but he got through all right, because the natives, after two or three of their
number had been killed, dispersed, and feared to come near his musket again. He visited Uganda
when the late king Sunna was living, and even traded Usoga; but as he was coming down from
these northern countries he lost all his property by a fire breaking out in a village he stopped
in, which drove him down here a ruined man. As it happened, however, he put up with the chief
of this district, Ugali--Mr Paste--at a time when the Watuta attacked the place and drove all
the inhabitants away. The chief, too, was on the point of bolting, when Sirboko prevented him
by saying, "If you will only have courage to stand by me, the Watuta shall not come near--at
any rate, if they do, let us both die together." The Watuta at that time surrounded the district,
crowning all the little hills overlooking it; but fearing the Arabs' guns might be many, they
soon walked away, and left them in peace. In return for this magnanimity, and feeling a great
security in firearms, Ugali then built the large enclosure, with huts for Sirboko, we were
now living in. Sirboko, afraid to return to the coast lest he should be apprehended for debt,
has resided here ever since, doing odd jobs for other traders, increasing his family, and planting
extensively. His agricultural operations are confined chiefly to rice, because the natives
do not like it enough to be tempted to steal it.

25th to 2d.--I now set to work, collecting, stuffing, and drawing, until the 2d, when Musa's
men came in with three hundred men, whom I sent on to Kaze at once with my specimens and letters,
directing Musa and Bombay to come on and join us immediately. Whilst waiting for these men's
return, one of Sirboko's slaves, chained up by him, in the most piteous manner cried out to
me: "Hai Bana wangi, Bana wangi (Oh, my lord, my lord), take pity on me! When I was a free
man I saw you at Uvira, on the Tanganyika lake, when you were there; but since then the Watuta,
in a fight at Ujiji, speared me all over and left me for dead, when I was seized by the people,
sold to the Arabs, and have been in chains ever since. Oh, I saw, Bana wangi, if you would
only liberate me I would never run away, but would serve you faithfully all my life." This
touching appeal was too strong for my heart to withstand, so I called up Sirboko, and told
him, if he would liberate this one man to please me he should be no loser; and the release
was effected. He was then christened Farham (Joy), and was enrolled in my service with the
rest of my freed men. I then inquired if it was true the Wabembe were cannibals, and also circumcised.
In one of their slaves the latter statement was easily confirmed. I was assure that he was
not a cannibal; for the whole tribe of Wabembe, when they cannot get human flesh otherwise,
give a goat to their neighbours for a sick or dying child, regarding such flesh as the best
of all. No other cannibals, however, were known of; but the Masai, and their cognates, the
Wahumba, Wataturu, Wakasange, Wanyaramba, and even the Wagogo and Wakimbu, circumcise.

On the 15th I was surprised to find Bombay come in with all my rear property and a great quantity
of Musa's, but with out the old man. By a letter from Sheikh Said I then found that, since
my leaving Kaze, the Arabs had, along with Mkisiwa, invested the position of Manua Sera at
Kigue, and forced him to take flight again. Afterwards the Arabs, returning to Kaze, found
Musa preparing to leave. Angry at this attempt to desert them, they persuaded him to give up
his journey north for the present; so that at the time Bombay left, Musa was engaged as public
auctioneer in selling the effects of Snay, Jafu, and others, but privately said he would follow
me on to Karague as soon as his rice was cut. Adding a little advice of his own, Sheikh Said
pressed me to go on with the journey as fast as possible, because all the Arabs had accused
me of conspiring with Manua Sera, and would turn against me unless I soon got away.

2d to 30th.--Disgusted with Musa's vacillatory conduct, on the 22d I sent him a letter containing
a bit of my mind. I had given him, as a present, sufficient cloth to pay for his porters, as
well as a watch and a good sum of money, and advised his coming on at once, for the porters
who had just brought in my rear property would not take pay to go on to Karague; and so I was
detained again, waiting whilst his head man went to Rungua to look for more. Five days after
this, a party of Sangoro's arrived from Karague, saying they had been detained three months
in Usui by Suwarora, who had robbed them of an enormous quantity of property, and oppressed
them so that all their porters ran away. Now, slight as this little affair might appear, it
was of vital importance to me, as I found all my men shaking their heads and predicting what
might happen to us when we got there; so, as a forlorn hope, I sent Baraka with another letter
to Musa, offering to pay as much money for fifty men carrying muskets as would buy fifty slaves,
and, in addition to that, I offered to pay them what my men were receiving as servants. Next
day (23d) the chief Ugali came to pay his respects to us. He was a fine-looking young man,
about thirty years old, the husband of thirty wives, but he had only three children. Much surprised
at the various articles composing our kit, he remarked that our "sleeping-clothes"--blankets--were
much better than his royal robes; but of all things that amused him most were our picture-books,
especially some birds drawn by Wolf.

Everything still seemed going against me; for on the following day (24th) Musa's men came in
from Rungua to say the Watuta were "out." They had just seized fifty head of cattle from Rungua,
and the people were in such a state of alarm they dared not leave their homes and families.
I knew not what to do, for there was no hope left but in what Baraka might bring; and as that
even would be insufficient, I sent Musa's men into Kaze, to increase the original number by
thirty men more.

Patience, thank God, I had a good stock of, so I waited quietly until the 30th, when I was
fairly upset by the arrival of a letter from Kaze, stating that Baraka had arrived, and had
been very insolent both to Musa and to Sheikh Said. The bearer of the letter was at once to
go and search for porters at Rungua, but not a word was said about the armed men I had ordered.
At the same time reports from the other side came in, to the effect that the Arabs at Kaze
and Msene had bribed the Watuta to join them, and overrun the whole country from Ugogo to Usui;
and, in consequence of this, all the natives on the line I should have to take were in such
dread of that terrible wandering race of savages, who had laid waste in turn all the lands
from N'yassa to Usui on their west flank, that not a soul dared leave his home. I could now
only suppose that this foolish and hasty determination of the Arabs, who, quite unprepared
to carry out their wicked alliance to fight, still had set every one against their own interests
as well as mine, had not reached Musa, so I made up my mind at once to return to Kaze, and
settle all matters I had in my heart with himself and the Arabs in person.

This settled, I next, in this terrible embarrassment, determined on sending back the last of
the Hottentots, as all four of them, though still wishing to go on with me, distinctly said
they had not the power to continue the march, for they had never ceased suffering from fever
and jaundice, which had made them all yellow as guineas, save one, who was too black to change
colour. It felt to me as if I were selling my children, having once undertaken to lead them
through the journey; but if I did not send them back then, I never could afterwards, and therefore
I allowed the more substantial feelings of humanity to overcome these compunctions.

Next morning, then, after giving the Tots over in charge of some men to escort them on to Kaze
quietly, I set our myself with a dozen men, and the following evening I put up with Musa, who
told me Baraka had just left without one man--all his slaves having become afraid to go, since
the news of the Arab alliance had reached Kaze. Suwarora had ordered his subjects to run up
a line of bomas to protect his frontier, and had proclaimed his intention to kill every coast-man
who dared attempt to enter Usui. My heart was ready to sink as I turned into bed, and I was
driven to think of abandoning everybody who was not strong enough to go on with me carrying a load.

3d to 13th.--Baraka, hearing I had arrived, then came back to me, and confirmed Musa's words. And of course I do not call service to the passions, the strong passions,
the tragic passions. Service call to the emptiness of the spirits are refined [7].

* * *

Alvarez was first and above all self-taught. As was his custom every student - says one of his biographers
- to make marginal annotations to the works read, underlining paragraphs that interested him and
scoring in the first pages of the book read the number that will to further consultation.
Also, worth of notebooks that had extracts, notes, grouped observations, ready to be used
in his writings.

There are still many without having fulfilled its purpose - as a confession of that noble strain stem
tutor - a cause of premature death.

Its work is recent method. The bustle of the daily struggle prevented him rest and serenity so
necessary to the speculations of spirit.

His tenure in the military, for journalism, for the courts, and as a lawyer or judge, its incursion
into the political arena, his dedication to educational work as a teacher of military education,
secondary and university acting as a member of numerous scientific or cultural institutions,
or as in many diverse scientific conferences opinion, national or international, and their performance
of official nation or province; all that prevented him from doing his work methodically and
quietly, in specialization.

So in that laborious daily struggle every path was built with admirable persistence and common
energy. It is amazing to imagine what would have taken this up beautifully brain if fortune would
have been favorable and could devote himself to study, no material concerns are as for the intellectual
shackles!

Uniquely characterized his early works the copy in dating. Its huge readings encyclopedic overturning
the will there, along with personal observations of people, events
and things the viewer discovers the sole right sight, will the relevant
clause of the author or foreign national who sister or matches, accompanied
by his remark tasty.

Or will the story, the story, the historical fact, the Creole proverb
brought to account to satirize and deduce their logical consequences.

Well have been written his first book, especially "South America", "Manual of political pathology"
and "Essay on Education."

IV .-- THE RELIGIOUS ISSUE

The religious issue has worried constantly Álvarez. Was ringing with unparalleled persistent about
it, urging his fellow citizens to study science, which put face to face with the religious precept.
It was "a liberal San Pablo," said Joaquín V. Gonzalez with over
success.

It has been alleged and repróchasele as a feature of bad taste this emphasis, but, Alvarez
was right. In our country, religion takes many forms curious, is infiltrated every corner of social life:
at school, at home, in government, administration, under the law. And peers with a sharp eye
for the right moment to regain the lost position.

Often argued that the religious question is not present, she has been
resolved in our country in the world is no longer questioned.

Nothing is more false or fanciful that this assertion. The religious question is topical in the
world today more than ever, and it comes out there mystical or religious revival in humanity
... But the undeniable fact is that war has cast into doubt the old ethical rules governing humanity
today, and in the foreground, religious norms.

In our country the religious problem is topical, Sarmiento to this part, especially practice
in his face. Civil registration with civil marriage, secular law and education, are gains of the secular
spirit of religious power. Seemingly, the struggle - that muffled roars in different social
groups - from religious precept and ideals Lay has increasingly emphasized.

Even,

therefore, may justly tachársele of inactual Alvarez. In this connection, is accused of "materialist",
had made up its mind on such extreme readings - the "Unique" sources of their culture, says
a critic - to approach old, backward, and saw Within this perspective the religious problem.

Engineers
believe that this indictment has answered in a definitive manner: "Nothing in Indeed - he says
- more false than the alleged identity of superstition with idealism, no There is nothing more
awkward than the vulgar to suggest that all secular moralists are "materialists" and lack of
ideals "and then adds:" There is nothing morally more materialistic practices outside of all
religions known and scrupulous capacity to set their rates to intercede with the deity, nothing
more idealist who practice and preach the virtue truth as did most
of the philosophers who died at the stake on charges of heresy.

In this sense moral - and there is no one to appreciate an ideal
planter - Agustín Alvarez was an idealist all his life, never adhering
to the materialism of any known religion "[8].

V. - THE EDUCATOR

Alvarez was a teacher in the broadest sense of the word.

His temperament and his teacher vocation for teaching is manifested in many forms. Arguably
it was a constant concern.

Taught in the university chair - say their students - with real fervor. At the conference public,
the booklet and the book puts that same anointing teaching.

"Our disease is ignorance, its causes fanaticism" - type -. "The remedy is school, the physician
is the teacher.

"warns that America lives on" the holy candles to see who should work miracles, and will not turn
lights on intelligence children to light the way of life. "Trust in the school as the cure
for all our ills, but the school that science education, based on
the observation nature, secular education, for school, his good understanding,
it must teach the freedom and work and not for submission and abandonment.

His concern on the matter speak very clearly the substantial pages
left to die.

In his "Essay on Education" appeared in moments of greatest confusion of plans and programs Maximum
Victoria says: "The three chimes ringer called High Mass when wrote them. "

ARTURO E. DE LA MOTA.

THE EVOLUTION OF THE HUMAN SPIRIT

THE MOTHER OF THE LAMB

The specific need of understanding is the explanation, as the specific need stomach is food.
Hunger and curiosity, then, are the two primitive factors fundamental human: one to ensure the
physical growth, the other to ensure mental growth, also necessary
for the preservation of the individual and the species.

No wings, no tail, no horn, no claws, no fangs, no poison, no spikes, no horns, no shell, no agility,
just for the intelligence man could overcome the other animal species
in the struggle for life, but, instead, the intelligence was in itself
a weapon or capable of developing power indefinitely, to rise higher
than birds and fall lower than the reptiles.

It is necessary to work to live, and we need to know to act.

Knowing the right or vice versa taste good or taste bad, it makes no difference to determine
the action or inaction and conduct in them, and just different to the outcome.

To find your way in the world, beyond the habit inherited instinct,
it is necessary to a concept, an idea, an explanation of the world,
very rough at first, and more and more elaborated later, because only
crude explanations can satisfy the understandings crude and refined
explanations can only satisfy the refined spirits.

Thus, for the fundamental gullibility of the child, the savage and ignorant, explanations are all
the more credible the more outrageous, more extraordinary, more fantastic, that that is, more
attractive, more impressive on the imagination predominant in them.

Systems of explanation of the universe, a priori beliefs about the unknown, were so necessary
to man to party and perform in the tangle of goods and evils that life unfolds, as the paths
and roads to travel on the ground, and both traffic areas the expansion necessarily had to produce
widening of the road.

Discover how and why to be specific to the facts and things was impossible. Imagine, was easy and inevitable,
then surrounded in all directions by the mystery, urged on by the need to know to act and prodded
by curious to know, men had to resort to the brooding fatally to decipher the mysteries of the
universe and life, to orient ourselves in the world and life, and
the mad house had to be responsible for furnish and equip the house.

For early man, the known history of their actions, the reason for their actions was inside that
mystery we call the will, and according to this first factor of own facts were explained,
of course, the actions of others as effects of other wills in other people, animals and things,
like the child who is angry with toys disobedient to their whims
and breaks, because the perpetrators believe that is voluntary; as
the cowboys of the range they believe that the mountain known to outsiders
and triggers then the storm to show their displeasure, as superstitious
Neapolitans believe that the proceedings do not like the priests and
flushed with rage when one goes from passengers.

Taking the first thing known - the self - as a basis or reference point for explanation of
other things, the man was necessarily the epitome of all things real
world, of course, and all the imaginary world then pleading directly
at the sun beginning to send the light and heat and avoided the clouds
and eclipses, and then Horus, Dionysus, to Phoebus Apollo, the Lord,
God, San Antonio or San Francisco.

Starting by assuming a willingness on or behind things to explain the particular of things,
the man reached by successive refinement, to imagine the unseen powers
as producers of incomprehensible facts, embodying them later in the
fetish for afraid to pay them, that is, worship.

And once conceived imaginary factors of the facts and things, came the need to influence those
to influence them, and the wizard - embryo of the bishop - took his position in the tribe the
useful function of scaring away evil spirits to heal patients.

The need to bring the role and brings the official procedure. The need to act on the invisible
powers brought to the magician and the magician brought magic, witchcraft second grade, and
bifurcated into two branches or specialties in Judaism and paganism,
a to appease the angry imaginary powers or promote them through sacrifices
laudatory and genuflecting, as "the blood and suffering of humans
were the nectar of the gods ", the other to forecast or predict its
determinations, interpreting, as the method of the prophets, the visions
of the imagination exalted by fasting and solitude, in Judaism, or
the dreams and omens, according to the method of fortune tellers and
soothsayers in paganism.

Meanwhile, next to the old mythologies and liturgies perfected philosophy arise and Greek literature,
which, decreasing human gullibility, the prestige first break the diviners of the future,
then the actual effectiveness of the current theogonies for to unmet human curiosity widened
in the Greco-Roman. Y man needs, then, on the shores of the Mediterranean, a new explanation
of facts and things in the world, and is provided by the Christian supernaturalism, with two testaments
as a new theory of the facts and things, and the sacraments - witchcraft third grade - as a
new vehicle of communication between human beings suffer accidents of life and events in the
universe, and the superhuman beings that occur, discontinue or change
at will.

East astrologers were to investigate the future questioning the stars and necromancers to know the
hidden things of the occult, in the West exorcists to expel the demons
from the body of the possessed, and blessed to induce the dead to
produce goods and avoid evils to the living.

Albeit very slowly, because the Church, forbidding the doubt and curiosity to preserve its tenets,
has dented the pricks that drive men to seek, investigate and find out to know, the human mind
has always been growing in scope and complexity, straight and parallel with reduced fear of witches, goblins,
devils and basilisks and the last suit or catechism imaginary terrors
and hopes, with the revelations made of the prophets and apostles,
comes, too, were too tight.

The exorcism, which had thousands of thousands victims, burning heretics,
haunted and possessed, - hysterical, crazy and wise - he could not
hold to human intelligence reaching more and dropped the first, definitely,
at the dawn of the nineteenth century.

At first, the Church, then all-powerful, fighting disbelief nascent able to maintain the integrity
of your explanation, creed, destroying or crushing which, since the Renaissance, began to excel
in mental capacity, but they continue to sprout everywhere and in such a progression that
war, excommunication, torture and the stake, operating at the maximum, not enough at last to
be removed, and in turn, she also begins to retreat, before the rising
tide of dissatisfaction with the curious ultimate explanation of nature
and the supernatural.

Because alchemy has been opening the way to physics and chemistry, have revived the philosophy,
literature and art, and human understanding, on the road again, beginning
to repel the miracles of the dead and the prophets hysterical aberrations
and Doctors of the Church, following the poor in spirit communion.

A new explanation of the world is becoming necessary for open minds Europe and America, and started
in the last century the positive sciences, regardless unknowable origin of things to explain the
facts of nature natural causes; leaving why they occur, which until now has spread to the faithful
and unfaithful men, bitter and angry each other on their different priori explanation of the mysteries
the universe to contract to investigate how they are produced, that being yourself for all
observers, is a common capital for men of all races, all colors,
locations and climates, a bond of mutual approach for mutual benefit.

And without a priesthood in isolation from family and homeland and devoted exclusively to propagate
and operate without orders of chivalry and preachers to its service without Jesuits fighters their
flanks, without missionaries to disseminate it without a pope at its head, not despots to impose
it by force, the ultimate explanation of universe and life expands, diffuses and spreads spontaneously,
not on the edge of the sword, and medieval religions, but on the wings of the book and newspaper,
enlisting its own intrinsic superiority to all men and women, as beyond the intellectual level
of the past that occurred official superstitions official religions, because just as fetishism
Catholic v. gr. it is inappropriate for black African tribes, because it is too big for your understanding
still too narrow, it is also inappropriate for unwrapped minds of Europe and America because
it is too small and too petty.

Gross ignorance of the grossest superstition, and helping the mild climate and soil fertility in
privileged regions, one at another superstition to highest of the highest to science compulsory
creed to free thought, truth revealed the truth demonstrated, in the religious magic rational
mechanics; of palms blessed the lightning rod, the miracle steam, railway, telegraph, telephone,
of rogation to the surgery and the serum of ecclesiastical censorship to freedom of the press;
"the holy ignorance" to compulsory education, this has been the upward march human spirit, driven
by the need to know the why of things to behave opposite things.

Question of thousands or hundreds of centuries to climb the first steps of evolution, tens only to
the past, has become, under the impulse of instruction liberal public,
a matter of only dozens of years to achieve significant capacity increases
mental in the individual and the community.

Well, according to known psychophysiological laws, exercising the body develops, and some part
of this or the ability to reproduce, spread, also roughly the offspring by so that, once lifted
up by men and upper and middle of an era moral or intellectual level of the subsequent reporting
enterprise, emerging for their respective race from a base platform or higher, go further with
the same flow or momentum, that is what explains the notorious fact that men and upper middle France
For example, when taken together, are worth many times more than Spain, in the same alleged
Latin race, or those of Argentina - who had a Rivadavia, a Mitre and Sarmiento, - much more
than those of Bolivia, which has had many bishops and any educator in America itself the South
and the Pope, which explains that a Voltaire, a Michelet, a Renan, a Taine, a France, being a natural
in France, would be an amazing event in Spain, absolutely impossible
in Morocco. This, however, was only the feast; the ball then began,
for the pots were no sooner emptied than five drums at once, of different sizes and tones,
suspended in a line from a long horizontal bar, were beaten with fury, and all the men, women,
and children, singing and clapping their hands in time, danced for hours together.

A report reached me, by some of Sirboko's men, whom he had sent to convey to us a small present
of rice, that an Arab, who was crossing Msalala to our northward, had been treacherously robbed
of all his arms and guns by a small district chief, whose only excuse was that the Wanyamuezi
had always traded very well by themselves until the Arabs came into the country; but now, as
they were robbed of their property, on account of the disturbances caused by these Arabs, they
intended for the future to take all they could get, and challenged the Arabs to do the same.

My patience was beginning to suffer again, for I could not help thinking that the chiefs of
the place were preventing their village men going with me in order that my presence here might
ward of the Watuta; so I called up the kirangozi, who had thirteen "Watoto," as they are called,
or children of his own, wishing to go, and asked him if he knew why no other men could be got.
As he could not tell me, saying some excused themselves on the plea they were cutting their
corn, and others that they feared the Watuta, I resolved at once to move over to Nunda; and
if that place also failed to furnish men, I would go on to Usui or Karague with what men I
had, and send back for the rest of my property; for though I could bear the idea of separating
from Grant, still the interests of old England were at stake, and demanded it.

This resolve being strengthened by the kirangozi's assurance that the row in Msalala had shaken
the few men who had half dreaded to go with me, I marched over to Hunda, and put up with Grant
in Ukulima's boma, when Grant informed me that the chief had required four yards of cloth from
him for having walked round a dead lioness, as he had thus destroyed a charm that protected
his people against any more of these animals coming, although, fortunately, the charm could
be restored again by paying four yards of cloth. Ukulima, however, was a very kind and good
man, though he did stick the hands and heads of his victims on the poles of his boma as a warning
to others. He kept five wives, of whom the rest paid such respect to the elder one, it was
quite pleasing to see them. A man of considerable age, he did everything the state or his great
establishment required himself. All the men of his district clapped their hands together as
a courteous salutation to him, and the women curtsied as well as they do at our court--a proof
that they respected him as a great potentate--a homage rarely bestowed on the chiefs of other
small states. Ukulima was also hospitable; for on one occasion, when another chief came to
visit him, he received his guest and retainers with considerable ceremony, making all the men
of the village get up a dance; which they did, beating the drums and firing off guns, like
a lot of black devils let loose.

We were not the only travellers in misfortune here, for Masudi, with several other Arabs, all
formed in one large caravan, had arrived at Mchimeka's, and could not advance for want of men.
They told me it was the first time they had come on this line, and they deeply regretted it,
for they had lost 5000 dollar's worth of beads by their porters running away with their loads,
and now they did not know how to proceed. Indeed, they left the coast and arrived at Kaze immediately
in rear of us, and had, like ourselves, found it as much as they could do even to reach this,
and now they were at a standstill for want of porters.

As all hopes of being able to get any more men were given up, I called on Bombay and Baraka
to make arrangements for my going ahead with the best of my property as I had devised. They
both shook their heads, and advised me to remain until the times improved, when the Arabs,
being freed from the pressure of war, would come along and form with us a "sufari ku" or grand
march, as Ukulima and every one else had said we should be torn to pieces in Usui if we tried
to cross that district with so few men. I then told them again and again of the messages I
had sent on to Rumanika in Karague, and to Suwarora in Usui, and begged them to listen to me,
instancing as an example of what could be done by perseverance the success of Columbus, who,
opposed by his sailors' misgivings, still when on and triumphed, creating for himself immortal
renown.

They gave way at last; so, after selecting all the best of my property, I formed camp at Phunze,
left Bombay with Grant behind, as I thought Bombay the best and most honest man I had got,
from his having had so much experience, and then went ahead by myself, with the Pig as my guide
and interpreter, and Baraka as my factotum. The Waguana then all mutinied for a cloth apiece,
saying they would not lift a load unless I gave it. Of course a severe contest followed; I
said, as I had given them so much before, they could not want it, and ought to be ashamed of
themselves. They urged, however, they were doing double work, and would not consent to carry
loads as they had done at Mgunda Mkhali again.

Arguments were useless, for, simply because they were tired of going on, they WOULD not see
that as they were receiving pay every day, they therefore ought to work every day. However,
as they yielded at last, by some few leaning to my side, I gave what they asked for, and went
to the next village, still inefficient in men, as all the Pig's Watoto could not be collected
together. This second move brought us into a small village, of which Ghiya, a young man, was chief.

He was very civil to me, and offered to sell me a most charming young woman, quite the belle
of the country; but as he could not bring me to terms, he looked over my picture-books with
the greatest delight, and afterwards went into a discourse on geography with considerable perspicacity;
seeming fully to comprehend that if I got down the Nile it would afterwards result in making
the shores of the N'yanza like that of the coast at Zanzibar, where the products of his country
could be exchanged, without much difficulty, for cloths, beads, and brass wire. I gave him
a present; then a letter was brought to me from Sheikh Said, announcing Musa's death, and the
fact that Manua Sera was still holding out at Kigue; in answer to which I desired the sheikh
to send me as many of Musa's slaves as would take service with me, for they ought now, by the
laws of the Koran, to be all free.

On packing up to leave Ghiya's, all the men of the village shut the bars of the entrance, wishing
to extract some cloths from me, as I had not given enough, they said, to their chief. They
soon, however, saw that we, being inside their own fort, had the best of it, and they gave
way. We then pushed on to Ungurue's, another chief of the same district. Here the men and women
of the place came crowding to see me, the fair sex all playfully offering themselves for wives,
and wishing to know which I admired most. They were so importunate, after a time, that I was
not sorry to hear an attack was made on their cattle because a man of the village would not
pay his dowry-money to his father-in-law, and this set everybody flying out to the scene of action.

After this, as Bombay brought up the last of my skulking men, I bade him good-bye again, and
made an afternoon-march on to Takina, in the district of Msalala, which we no sooner approached
than all the inhabitants turned out and fired their arrows at us. They did no harm, however,
excepting to create a slight alarm, which some neighbouring villagers took advantage of to
run of with two of my cows. To be returned to them, but called in vain, as the scoundrels said,
"Findings are keepings, by the laws of our country; and as we found your cows, so we will keep
them." For my part I was glad they were gone, as the Wanguana never yet kept anything I put
under their charge; so, instead of allowing them to make a fuss the next morning, I marched
straight on for M'ynoga's, the chief of the district, who was famed for his infamy and great
extortions, having pushed his exactions so far as to close the road.

On nearing his palace, we heard war-drums beat in every surrounding village, and the kirangozi
would go no farther until permission was obtained from M'yonga. This did not take long, as
the chief said he was most desirous to see a white man, never having been to the coast, though
his father-in-law had, and had told him that the Wazungu were even greater people than the
sultan reigning there. On our drawing near the palace, a small, newly-constructed boma was
shown for my residence; but as I did not wish to stop there, knowing how anxious Grant would
be to have his relief, I would not enter it, but instead sent Baraka to pay the hongo as quickly
as possible, that we might move on again; at the same time ordering him to describe the position
both Grant and myself were in, and explain that what I paid now was to frank both of us, as
the whole of the property was my own. Should he make any remarks about the two cows that were
stolen, I said he must know that I could not wait for them, as my brother would die of suspense
if we did not finish the journey and send back for him quickly. Off went Baraka with a party
of men, stopping hours, of course, and firing volleys of ammunition away. He did not return
again until the evening, when the palace-drums announced that the hongo had been settled for
one barsati, one lugoi, and six yards merikani. Baraka approached me triumphantly, saying how
well he had managed the business. M'yonga did not wish to see me, because he did not know the
coast language. He was immensely pleased with the present I had given him, and said he was
much and very unjustly abused by the Arabs, who never came this way, saying he was a bad man.
He should be very glad to see Grant, and would take nothing from him; and, though he did not
see me in person, he would feel much affronted if I did not stop the night there. In the meanwhile
he would have the cows brought in, for he could not allow any one to leave his country abused
in any way.

My men had greatly amused him by firing their guns off and showing him the use of their sword-bayonets.
I knew, as a matter of course, that if I stopped any longer I should be teased for more cloths,
and gave orders to my men to march the same instant, saying, if they did not--for I saw them
hesitate--I would give the cows to the villagers, since I knew that was the thing that weighed
on their minds. This raised a mutiny. No one would go forward with the two cows behind; besides
which, the day was far spent, and there was nothing but jungle, they said, beyond. The kirangozi
would not show the way, nor would any man lift a load. A great confusion ensued. I knew they
were telling lies, and would not enter the village, but shot the cows when they arrived, for
the villagers to eat, to show them I cared for nothing but making headway, and remained out
in the open all night. Next morning, sure enough, before we could get under way, M'yonga sent
his prime minister to say that the king's sisters and other members of his family had been
crying and tormenting him all night for having let me off so cheaply--they had got nothing
to cover their nakedness, and I must pay something more. This provoked fresh squabbles. The
drums had beaten and the tax was settled; I could not pay more. The kirangozi, however, said
he would not move a peg unless I gave something more, else he would be seized on his way back.
His "children' all said the same; and as I thought Grant would only be worsted if I did not
keep friends with the scoundrel, I gave four yards more merikani, and then went on my way.

For the first few miles there were villagers, but after that a long tract of jungle, inhabited
chiefly by antelopes and rhinoceros. It was wilder in appearance than most parts of Unyamuezi.
In this jungle a tributary nullah to the Gombe, called Nurhungure, is the boundary-line between
the great Country of the Moon and the kingdom of Uzinza.

Chapter VI. Uzinza

The Politics of Uzinza--The Wahuma--"The Pig's" Trick--First Taste of Usui Taxation--Pillaged
by Mfumbi--Pillaged by Makaka--Pillaged by Lumeresi--Grant Stripped by M'Yonga--Stripped Again
by Ruhe--Terrors and Defections in the Camp--Driven back to Kaze with new Tribulations and
Impediments.

Uzinza, which we now entered, is ruled by two Wahuma chieftains of foreign blood, descended
from the Abyssinian stock, of whom we saw specimens scattered all over Unyamuezi, and who extended
even down south as far as Fipa. Travellers see very little, however, of these Wahuma, because,
being pastorals, they roam about with their flocks and build huts as far away as they can from
cultivation. Most of the small district chiefs, too, are the descendants of those who ruled
in the same places before the country was invaded, and with them travellers put up and have
their dealings. The dress of the Wahuma is very simple, composed chiefly of cow-hide tanned
black--a few magic ornaments and charms, brass or copper bracelets, and immense number of sambo
for stockings, which looked very awkward on their long legs. They smear themselves with rancid
butter instead of macassar, and are, in consequence, very offensive to all but the negro, who
seems, rather than otherwise, to enjoy a good sharp nose tickler. For arms they carry both
bow and spear; more generally the latter. The Wazinza in the southern parts are so much like
the Wanyamuezi, as not to require any especial notice; but in the north, where the country
is more hilly, they are much more energetic and actively built. All alike live in grass-hut
villages, fenced round by bomas in the south, but open in the north. 

It is said that when a farmer who claims to have much to spend want to give to his girlfriend
or girl who is accompanying, goes to the confectioner and asks buds and sweet potatoes.

- How many do you want? - Says the baker put in one pan of the scale
weight paneled.

- Have you jierro - replied the gallant.

The baker put the weight of half a pound.

- Have you more jierro - repeated several times the stud, and the candy is poured almost all weights.

But
always the girl, full of exquisite delicacy, and the more modest affectations, claims the difficulty
of moving home is so much uproar and grief of candy, and ensures not be able to eat in a week
or two, and that will sour, dry or stale. In Finally, she is so eloquent that the gallant, though
at first he resists calling the girl Almond average lady, after be persuaded, but not suddenly,
but little by little; and as it entered the conviction in her mind and she keeps talking, he
interrupted tracts telling the baker:

- Remove your jierro.

And in this way ends up not being on the pan of weights more than
paneled, and sometimes two ounces.

Lest we lacked the evening of any appeal, she was in a band military, which had been preserved
since the time when there was national militia, thanks to the efforts and efforts of Don Andrés
Rubio, who had been commander of the militia. The eight musicians that comprised the band still wore
when they were going to play the ceremony, former extinct institution uniform defending our freedoms.
They were journeymen musicians or laborers of the smartest, not playing badly, and always the
Municipality paid a good stipend: six to eight reals each. This tribute is liberated to Villalegre
was put on old, by coming from the neighboring town, where he function
the musicians, who surnamed tragalentejas in place.

Don Paco walked to her friends throughout the exhibition, giving little to no murmur, as they
had expected.

As they were thinner than laborers, none was coming to speak, as they were more humble position
that the rich peasant, owning and Hidalgo, the aristocracy the despised. Juanita illegitimate
birth was greater isolation. Juanita he and a friend. Among the boys, as he had neglected
for many, the poor will not be approached by offended or shy, and
rich men, if she would have been easy for stubborn visit her house,
flake or lowered fear accompanying her in public.

Antonuelo was the only lover who still liked to accompany Juanita, but then walked Antonuelo very
lost and was absent in one of his forays into the nearby sites.

The girls who used to fetch water at the source of the ejido, and drovers, shepherds and swineherds
who came to get water to livestock, considering that since Juanita stopped going there was Mrs.
tone, and neither dared not say hello.

Overnight, or until the fires ended, which was already close to a
mother and daughter remained in the plaza, and would have been no
other companion Don Paco, if Mr. Spencer, school teacher, had not
joined them too.

Mr. Spencer was a bachelor of over sixty years, frail, thin and small body but smart and sweet
character.

Since I was six years old Juanita Don Pascual, captivated by its clearance and its resiliency, was
pains to teach him to read and write, some bills and other basic
skills.

Juanita had been a schoolteacher in a constant fan and useful, because it was for her, in the
absence of governess, ayo free and zealous.

She, however, was much honor to his master, then taking their lessons
in leisure hours and when the school was empty of kids, came out as
advantageous disciple, who embarrassed almost everyone who attended
school.

No one knew better than she does the Catechism of Ripalda
and the Epitome of grammar. Nobody knew four rules better.

Juanita
had also learned some geography and history, and now, when he was
nine years, gracefully recited several ancient romances and not a
few tales of Samaniego.

Time was that Mr. Spencer did not visit or
his mother Juanita.

First, the frequent visits he had been frightened
Antonuelo. Of course I knew well what all this meant;
and at the same time that I said I could not comply, I promised to send him a present of friendship
by the hands of Baraka.

This caused a halt. Makaka would not hear of such an arrangement. A present, he said, was due
to him of course, but of more importance than the present was his wish to see me. Baraka and
all the men begged I would give in, as they were sure he must be a good man to send such a
kind message. I strove in vain, for no one would lift a load unless I complied; so, perforce,
I went there, in company, however, with Mfumbi, who now pretended to be great friends; but
what was the result? On entering the palace we were shown into a cowyard without a tree in
it, or any shade; and no one was allowed to sell us food until a present of friendship was
paid, after which the hongo would be discussed.

The price of friendship was not settled that day, however, and my men had to go supperless
to bed. Baraka offered him one common cloth, and then another--all of which he rejected with
such impetuosity that Baraka said his head was all on a whirl. Makaka insisted he would have
a deole, or nothing at all. I protested I had no deoles I could give him; for all the expensive
cloths which I had brought from the coast had been stolen in Mgunda Mkhali. I had three, however,
concealed at the time--which I had bought from Musa, at forty dollars each--intended for the
kings of Karague and Uganda.

Incessant badgering went on for hours and hours, until at last Baraka, clean done with the
incessant worry of this hot-headed young chief, told him, most unfortunately, he would see
again if he could find a deole, as he had one of his own. Baraka then brought one to my tent,
and told me of his having bought it for eight dollars at the coast; and as I now saw I was
let in for it, I told him to give it. It was given, but Makaka no sooner saw it than he said
he must have another one; for it was all nonsense saying a white man had no rich cloths. Whenever
he met Arabs, they all said they were poor men, who obtained all their merchandise from the
white men on credit, which they refunded afterwards, by levying a heavy percentage on the sale
of their ivory.

I would not give way that night; but next day, after fearful battling, the present of friendship
was paid by Baraka's giving first a dubuani, then one sahari, then one barsati, then one kisutu,
and then eight yards of merikani--all of which were contested in the most sickening manner--when
Baraka, fairly done up, was relieved by Makaka's saying, "That will do for friendship; if you
had given the deole quietly, all this trouble would have been saved; for I am not a bad man,
as you will see." My men then had their first dinner here, after which the hongo had to be
paid. This for the time was, however, more easily settled; because Makaki at once said he would
never be satisfied until he had received, if I had really not got a deole, exactly double in
equivalents of all I had given him. This was a fearful drain on my store; but the Pig, seeing
my concern, merely laughed at it, and said, "Oh, these savage chiefs are all alike here; you
will have one of these taxes to pay every stage to Uyofu, and then the heavy work will begin;
for all these men, although they assume the dignity of chief to themselves, are mere officers,
who have to pay tribute to Suwarora, and he would be angry if they were shortcoming."

The drums as yet had not beaten, for Makaka said he would not be satisfied until we had exchanged
presents, to prove that we were the best of friends. To do this last act properly, I was to
get ready whatever I wished to give him, whilst he would come and visit me with a bullock;
but I was to give him a royal salute, or the drums would not beat. I never felt so degraded
as when I complied, and gave orders to my men to fire a volley as he approached my tent; but
I ate the dirt with a good grace, and met the young chief as if nothing had happened. 

Probably the last case of this kind has been to Carmen Marín, "the possessed or Spirit, "during
which the archbishop, priests and nuns, who was deeply moved society of Santiago de Chile, in the second
half of 1857, and is documented with reports of doctors and priests, by the "Revista Médica de Santiago",
October that year.

Under the horse's feet of an angel through it with his spear in the center of the church Villa del
Pilar, Paraguay, I have seen a devil in the form of a lizard, bat-winged, barbed seeded, huge big eyes
of owl and vulture claws with nails, and I thought with regret in the daytime nightmares and
sleepless nights that the sight of such a supernatural monster should lead to the unfortunate children
of the village.

We understand then that France, the pupil of the Jesuits in Cordoba, and Lopez, disciples France,
could wield with full effectiveness as political terror in a population morally depressed
by the religious terror, and it is understood the profound difference between the politics of South
America, where massacres and proscriptions were the main instrument of government and politics
of North America, where it never occurred to leader resort to any intimidation of their fellow citizens
to subjugate or carve prestige, because 200 years earlier bill had been tempered by tolerance infernal
horrors diet Christian churches that fed the predestined for heaven.

When the mental capacity of the mass of the population was expanded to scientific culture, the
descendants of those same Christians barbarians of yore have been able to retain less more
evil and Sermon on the Mount in its intellectual complexion widened, thereby has ceased chronic guillotine.
The same circumstance had ceased their diabolical operation the Puritan witch-burners of New
England, and his absence is to be the continuation of the massacres
of Jews in Russia and Christians in Turkey.

* * *

Sarmiento was in our country, contributing more effectively to sweep the Argentine spirit with the spread
of lights that public education, that lamentable moral garbage, which is the government for
fear of children and adults Cuckoo fear the devil. Vanished by the growing liberalism medieval
religious terrors, has correspondingly ceasing political terrorism,
and the Christian devil only retains his immense prestige and vast
role that created the visionaries of the Middle Ages, educated aristocratic
families in schools of monks and nuns, and in the remote campaigns,
by the crass ignorance.

What Christianity is superbly savage and barbaric, which has made some Sometimes men more cruel
and more unfortunate that these wild animals is conception of hell with eternal torments of the
devil, witches, goblins, ghosts, etc.. and so on. The appalling refinements of cruelty came Christian
of that school or spiritual atmosphere of wickedness and supernatural
horrors, pending on the existence of the believer as the sword of
Dionysus on the head of Damocles.

Because things, facts and ideas do not shock or scandalize us as far as they are monstrous, but
the extent to which out of the ordinary, no longer shock us when are or become regular, like
the idea of ​​original sin and of doom with the devil, purgatory and hell, as with the burning of widows
in India, before British rule, as with the eunuchism in Muslim countries, with the Maffia and
the Camorra in southern Italy, with bullfights in Spain and lynchings
in America.

The influence of indoor environment is analogous to the external environment, and monstrosities
imaginary produce the same effects as real, although on a smaller
scale, also ranging with the temperament and education of the subject
that represents them, see them, know them or hear referred.

When the theological madness became the normal state of European societies, wisdom and human wisdom seemed
shocking monstrosities, and the wise sages were imprisoned, hanged or burned by theological
scholars. When you know, with the most complete certainty The dead were roasting by order of
God in purgatory and hell, and when this imaginary fact reached in the spirit of the people, by
the preaching of the Lord's ministers, the vividness of an actual fact, obvious and visible, through
the language the blasphemers with a red-hot iron, torturing those accused of religious offenses
and burn alive those convicted were made as regular as it is today the sentencing people to
prison or forced labor permanent or being killed in duel the educated man or without mourning
for the uneducated, or the burning of black in North America, where they all fall back on that
white was burned alive, being probably the idea of ​​burning future of white outlaws which downplays
the spirit the village to the immediate burning black outlaws in anticipation of the simple
divine justice, for the double odium of crime and criminal color.

"We can only see out what we have inside," says Emerson, when we are full of spite, stupidity
or wickedness, are everywhere, and when we are full devils and ghosts, see and feel them everywhere,
because everywhere carry. And what has always been done with children, as an "educate them in
the belief of the seniors, "head has been filled with witches, goblins and demons and the result
is that every believer is haunted, possessed or "engualichado" by demons, witches or "gualicho"
he believes, and predisposed to believe the other zonceras of the same species, as jettatura and
thirteen, verbigracia.

* * *

The theory of divine powers and demonic powers to the metaphysical explanation of good and evil,
has been a prodigious fertility to mislead and disrupt intelligence human. The fragmentation
of the effects, involving fragmentation or grading of the causes, suggested the subdivision and location
of these on the people, things, words, in numbers, which came to be so, miraculously good or
bad in different miraculously measure; escalonáronse the first angels, saints, virgins, relics,
prayers, to the simple holy water, and second in the devils, witches,
elves, wizards, to the innocent owl.

Both powers were more fully materialized yet, so there was the smell of health and the smell
of the devil, they fell sambenito lot sulfur and ozone, resulting the condensation of oxygen from
the air by lightning. Naturally against particles evil power in spells, damage, spells and
curses were enough particles divine power contained in the blessings,
baptism, relics and scapulars, or fist in cross as the fist just against
jettatura horns or Fourteen against thirteen.

Of the same nature, origin, material, form and structure of the gods monstrously immoral horrible
and barbaric savage races, is the devil: scary, seductive, cunning, treacherous, hypocritical, damaging
trade, profession perverse, delighting in evil of children and adults, bound by the beliefs of
their elders to live in perpetual danger and guard Standing against their tireless pitfalls,
especially designed to spoil the good, to take them down, for the condemnation of God, a herd
of life sentences, having he reached the absolute impunity of their evil deeds have incurred from
further the first in the maximum punishment.

The ubiquitous Christian devil is the Assistant Director of iniquity the epitome of savagery
supernatural.

Eternal and indestructible by imaginary construction, rituals and magical ceremonies not are
more permanent than a defensive organization against their inexhaustible magic powers; saints
and angels are a kind of spiritual gendarmerie also effective to hurt and away, but powerless
to kill him, because he's dead.

We believe that impunity of the wicked is demoralizing, but there is bigger and more evil to go unpunished
of Satan and his legions, if our leaders have been fierce barbarians, it is because hell and not
heaven was the strongest component of the superstitions of his spirit.

Patterns in the atmosphere of barely literate, and completely illiterate servants and workers
that passed our childhood, all feared and no one had ever seen God, but all had seen, heard,
smelled or felt the devil prowls around the core or at their heels, night in a thousand circumstances
or even by day.

Too high, complex and intractable the first, has only fallen from the heights and has been left
very rarely seen by the prophets chosen to this end, and there in ancient times, the second, however,
eminently democratic, loose and without apparatus on earth, and be seen all over the world
figure of man or animal, without ceremony previous state of grace or disgrace, the free sowing fear and
terror. It is these two attributes, terror and fear, a fearful life that depress the spirit,
broth fat to make the bold and long harvest produce benefits of any kind for suppliers of condoms,
because "there is an ill wind that blows nobody good," as the saying,
and that there is both sincerely and ardently propagated and grown
by the beneficiaries, especially when they themselves are personally
immunized about him, because ideas purest and most sordid interests
tend to tie in the depths of the spirit secret links that go completely
unnoticed by most sincerely honest conscience.

In time and in the middle when I was a child and gullible, the spiritual condition of the Christian
child unit was the time of Rosas, as described by Velez Sarsfield. "I know he lived between terrors
"because the current intelligible and religion dealt with demons perverse and incastigables
on eternal torments of hell, of martyrs and saints, about good people,
who had previously cooked in purgatory to finish to win the bliss
with abstinence and the sufferings of his life miserable.

All of the "folk lore", ie all the intellectual and moral material circulating dealt basilisks, salamanders,
Salamanca, covens, witches and enchanted maidens on the Mandinga
pericana, witches, goblins, ghosts, visions that populate the space
to the gullible, and make them anxious the mere absence of light in
the darkness of night.

The women of the house that evening rueful gathered to pray aloud, did printing of the besieged busily
preparing to repel an attack of night enemy. The bearing of the allowance to a dying day parade
with lighted candles or lanterns, bells ringing in the middle of the street, people bewildered
that kneeling to pray sight or sound of eternity spent in the funeral procession led by the
priest, and the rest in the mortuary chapel of distressed home, they made the macabre impression
capital punishment in the public square, also priests, inmate on
death row, and marches funeral, and spectators moved.

Older people tended to be living repertories ridiculous procedures to prevent and to remedy evils
and dangers real and imagined. The yawning, crossing herself on mouth open wide, to prevent Satan
entered him for her advantage the global crisis and a cold person who sneezed, he was told the same
subject: "Jesus help him. "A notary, who was a specialist in false writing to deprive widows,
orphans and tiling, and bearer of all the guilds, knitting and walking in processions battleship
permanently with scapulars blessed, took his precautions against the devil in the table to draw
a cross on each bite prevention to be led to crop, and end of their mischief, cheating the
devil and hell, he went "straight to heaven" remorseful and contrite and "comforted by the rites
of the holy religion," as they prayed the obituaries.

Well, in fact, the classic way to be a devil with the devil was to get well God, qualify for the
Church, join guilds, entrusted to the saints and to provide of relics
and indulgences to make more mischief in cold blood and die "quand
même" odor of sanctity.

* * *

In village life, which characterized colonial society, the devil, with all its derivatives,
Domestic institutions were ubiquitous and protean, essentially malevolent
and haunting.

It was a hothouse of superstitions, by and benefit of a farmer and grower official ancestral fears of
withering joy of life in children and good humor adults, to save the soul.

Particularly at night, all unusual incidents were attributed to demonic powers. A combination of light
and shade that imagination lends its preconceived forms, a cat black, a strange dog that appears unexpectedly
in search of food waste, a owl food excursion, the terror of a horse, lights and sounds with no
known cause everything was attributed to the dangerous presence of unsuspecting souls poacher,
and buyer generous souls in trouble, ready to go where they call or name, and close treatment price
haggling, startling in its moments of good humor to good people,
disguised of "widow" as a few years ago in the Rosary, or "pork",
as in the suburbs of Buenos Aires, where she gave birth to the milonga
called "Run you run the pig", etc.

As the losing roulette, in Mar
del Plata, who attributed his bad luck to the "ducks" or onlookers
back, if the milk or cream were cut was because they had been watched
by one person from evil eye, if a tree is dried, it was because he
had been touched by a person bad blood, capturing snakes and spiders
live was a thing of witchcraft, etc.., etc. It was customary the tendency
to explain the common things for wonderful causes.

Just as the Chinese lit night light in the door of his house, scare away evil spirits, the
houses were in the bars of the window or door street a bunch of olive branches or palms blessed to
ward off demons, and all places where a man had been killed, without
giving him time to repent of his life to save his soul, had a niche,
in which lit candles at night, fearful of the souls in purgatory.

The fear of loneliness and darkness, there is no child-educated laity, and afflict children
raised "Christian" depressed adults also ignorant and superstitious, with the most dire consequences,
such as, eg, the case was referred by me my cousin Roberto Suárez. At the "The Brush" at the
foot of the mountain, in one night dark and stormy winter, were screams
of children.

Fourteen pawns present the house, not one, or all together, they were encouraged to accompany
him to go to his aid, claiming that should be the same demon who was crying to draw them into a trap, ending
by contagion its terrors to him, it was just a teenager and had been educated in Christian
the Jesuit school in Havana. The next day they found, in fact, a poor missing child, nestled
in the hollow of an old tree and died of cold.

* * *

We, who had seen, heard or observed many individuals who told us to be traces or events of the fateful
character, just, at last, meet the "Devil" in person and face to face.

It was in the department of San Vicente, today Belgrano, in the province of Mendoza. A boy neighborhood,
which was sent every afternoon to mow grass in a vineyard, taking you back, late at night,
for a lonely street, with his pack on his back, asked us to fear
acompañásemos to shrink our presence, we could only make us illegally,
returning inside the farm that stretched to the aforementioned lane,
and penetrating through the partition wall with a neighboring orchard.

A very dark night, my brother, who was in front by the back wall, stops and turning head, I
said quietly: "Let us turn, there's the devil." Where? I say, raising head above their shoulders,
to look ahead, and I had barely glimpsed, poncho and hat, one hand on his back in an attitude
of taking the knife from the waist and fuming at the mouth, nervousness
led us straight to the two slip and fall.

Get up and leave in the middle of the lane, and then the real center of the street as souls who run
the devil, to reach almost breathless and trembling with fear at our house to relate what happened,
was something of a hurry, which also seemed eternal.

Among the laborers, some suggested that they go together to verify the facts, but eventually none
dared, and only the next morning could be seen at the site of the apparition, in a gate closed
temporarily with sticks, had been cut with the knife leather restraints that held the horizontal
beams and robbed them.

It was easy to infer then, that the thief was smoking, in that circumstance, one of those
thick cigarette sting of snuff Tarija, with more sticks than sheet, and that therefore used
as a fire sparks fireplace.

That was the time that we experience on a wider scale called stupid and diabolically "the holy terror
of hell."

When the proportion of acetic acid in wine is very considerable, it is called vinegar and if
the same criteria we had to give the past the component name Main
spirit and human behavior, we should say that Satan was started end
up in America in 1810, the reign of the devil flared superstitious
among us from 1820 to 1852, to continue in an increasingly less pronounced
to date.

NOTES:

[1] Julio Costa. "The President."

[2] Alberdi. "Daylight."

[3] Martin Garcia Mérou. "Alberdi."

[4] Joaquín V. González. Preface to "The creation of the moral world."

Edc. "The Culture Argentina."

[5] "Where do we go?"

[6] "Agustín Álvarez." Journal of Philosophy. IN Year 8.

[7] In "The Nation." February 1917.

[8] "A moralist Argentina." Journal
of Philosophy. Year II. No. 6.

[9] In the city of Rosario, the mortality
is 14 0 | 00 sections with work health, reaches in with the hygiene
of the Middle Ages the horrific figure of 160 0 | 00 in children under
five years - says Dr. Don Juan Álvarez.

[10] Lecture at the University
of La Plata .-- 1909.

[11] For the purpose of Catholic congress .--
1907.

However, on the 18th, after breakfasting at Ruhe's, we walked into Mihambo, and took all the
camp by surprise. I found the Union Jack hoisted upon a flag-staff, high above all the trees,
in the boma. Baraka said he had done this to show the Watuta that the place was occupied by
men with guns--a necessary precaution, as all the villages in the neighbourhood had, since
my departure, been visited and plundered by them. Lumeresi, the chief of the district, who
lived ten miles to the eastward, had been constantly pressing him to leave this post and come
to his palace, as he felt greatly affronted at our having shunned him and put up with Ruhe.
He did not want property, he said, but he could not bear that the strangers had lived with
his mtoto, or child, which Ruhe was, and yet would not live with him. He thought Baraka's determined
obstinacy on this could only be caused by the influence of the head man of the village, and
threatened that if Baraka did not come to visit him at once, he would have the head man beheaded.
Then, shifting round a bit, he thought of ordering his subjects to starve the visitors into
submission, and said he must have a hongo equal to Ruhe's. To all this Baraka replied, that
he was merely a servant, and as he had orders to stop where he was, he could not leave it until
I came; but to show there was no ill-feeling towards him, he sent the chief a cloth.

These first explanations over, I entered my tent, in which Baraka had been living, and there
I found a lot of my brass wires on the ground, lying scattered about. I did not like the look
of this, so ordered Bombay to resume his position of factotum, and count over the kit. Whilst
this was going on, a villager came to me with a wire, and asked me to change it for a cloth.
I saw at once what the game was; so I asked my friend where he got it, on which he at once
pointed to Baraka. I then heard the men who were standing round us say one to another in under-tones,
giggling with the fun of it, "Oh, what a shame of him! Did you hear what Bana said, and that
fool's reply to it? What a shame of him to tell in that way." Without appearing to know, or
rather to hear, the by-play that was going on, I now said to Baraka, "How is it this man has
got one of my wires, for I told you not to touch or unpack them during my absence?" To which
he coolly replied, in face of such evidence, "It is not one of your wires; I never gave away
one of yours; there are lots more wires besides yours in the country. The man tells a falsehood;
he had the wire before, but now, seeing your cloth open, wants to exchange it." "If that is
the case," I said, taking things easy, "how is it you have opened my loads and scattered the
wires about in the tent?" "Oh, that was to take care of them; for I thought, if they were left
outside all night with the rest of the property, some one would steal them, and I should get
the blame of it."

Further parley was useless; for, though both my wires and cloths were short, still it was better
not to kick up a row, when I had so much to do to keep all my men in good temper for the journey.
Baraka then, wishing to beguile me, as he thought he could do, into believing him a wonderful
man for both pluck and honesty, said he had had many battles to fight with the men since I
had been gone to Kaze, for there were two strong parties in the camp; those who, during the
late rebellion at Zanzibar, had belonged to the Arabs that sided with Sultan Majid, and were
royalists, and those who, having belonged to the rebellious Arabs, were on the opposite side.
The battle commenced, he stated, by the one side abusing the other for their deeds during that
rebellion, the rebels in this sort of contest proving themselves the stronger. But he, heading
the royalist party, soon reduced them to order, though only for a short while, as from that
point they turned round to open mutiny for more rations; and some of the rebels tried to kill
him, which, he said, they would have done had he not settled the matter by buying some cows
for them. It was on this account he had been obliged to open my loads. And now he had told
me the case, he hoped I would forgive him if he had done wrong. Now, the real facts of the
case were these--though I did not find them out at the time:--Baraka had bought some slaves
with my effects, and he had had a fight with some of my men because they tampered with his
temporary wife--a princess he had picked up in Phunze. To obtain her hand he had given ten
necklaces of MY beads to her mother, and had agreed to the condition that he should keep the
girl during the journey; and after it was over, and he took her home, he would, if his wife
pleased him, give her mother ten necklaces more.

Next day Baraka told me his heart shrank to the dimensions of a very small berry when he saw
whom I had brought with me yesterday--meaning Bombay, and the same porters whom he had prevented
going on with me before. I said, "Pooh, nonsense; have done with such excuses, and let us get
away out of this as fast as we can. Now, like a good man, just use your influence with the
chief of the village, and try and get from him five or six men to complete the number we want,
and then we will work round the east of Sorombo up to Usui, for Suwarora has invited us to
him." This, however, was not so easy; for Lumeresi, having heard of my arrival, sent his Wanyapara,
or grey-beards, to beg I would visit him. He had never seen a white man in all his life, neither
had his father, nor any of his forefathers, although he had often been down to the coast; I
must come and see him, as I had seen his mtoto Ruhe. He did not want property; it was only
the pleasure of my company that he wanted, to enable him to tell all his friends what a great
man had lived in his house.

This was terrible: I saw at once that all my difficulties in Sorombo would have to be gone
through again if I went there, and groaned when I thought what a trick the Pig had played me
when I first of all came to this place; for if I had gone on then, as I wished, I should have
slipped past Lumeresi without his knowing it.

I had to get up a storm at the grey-beards, and said I could not stand going out of my road
to see any one now, for I had already lost so much time by Makaka's trickery in Sorombo. Bui
then, quaking with fright at my obstinacy, said, "You must--indeed you must--give in and do
with these savage chiefs as the Arabs when they travel, for I will not be a party to riding
rough-shod over them." Still I stuck out, and the grey-beards departed to tell their chief
of it. Next morning he sent them back to say he would not be cheated out of his rights as the
chief of the district. Still I would not give in, and the whole day kept "jawing" without effect,
for I could get no man to go with me until the chief gave his sanction. I then tried to send
Bombay off with Bui, Nasib, and their guide, by night; but though Bombay was willing, the other
two hung back on the old plea. In this state of perplexity, Bui begged I would allow him to
go over to Lumeresi and see what he could do with a present. Bui really now was my only stand-by,
so I sent him off, and next had the mortification to find that he had been humbugged by honeyed
words, as Baraka had been with Makaka, into believing that Lumeresi was a good man, who really
had no other desire at heart than the love of seeing me. His boma, he said, did not lie much
out of my line, and he did not wish a stitch of my cloth. So far from detaining me, he would
give me as many men as I wanted; and, as an earnest of his good intentions, he sent his copper
hatchet, the badge of office as chief of the district, as a guarantee for me.

To wait there any longer after this, I knew, would be a mere waste of time, so I ordered my
men to pack up that moment, and we all marched over at once to Lumeresi's, when we put up in
his boma. The same night, whilst sitting out to make astronomical observations, I became deadly
cold--so much so, that the instant I had taken the star, to fix my position, I turned into
bed, but could not get up again; for the cough that had stuck to me for a month then became
so violent, heightened by fever succeeding the cold fit, that before the next morning I was
so reduced that I could not stand. For the last month, too, I had not been able to sleep on
either side, as interior pressure, caused by doing so, provoked the cough; but now I had, in
addition, to be propped in position to get any repose whatever. The symptoms, altogether, were
rather alarming, for the heart felt inflamed and ready to burst, pricking and twingeing with
every breath, which was exceedingly aggravated by constant coughing, when streams of phlegm
and bile were ejected. The left arm felt half-paralysed, the left nostril was choked with mucus,
and on the centre of the left shoulder blade I felt a pain as if some one was branding me with
a hot iron. All this was constant; and, in addition, I repeatedly felt severe pains--rather
paroxysms of fearful twinges--in the spleen, liver, and lungs; whilst during my sleep I had
all sorts of absurd dreams: for instance--I planned a march across Africa with Sir Roderick
Murchison; and I fancied some curious creatures, half-men and half-monkeys, came into my camp
to inform me that Petherick was waiting in boats at the south-west corner of the N'yanza, etc.,
etc.

Though my mind was so weak and excited when I woke up from these trances, I thought of nothing
but the march, and how I could get out of Lumeresi's hands. He, with the most benign countenance,
came in to see me, the very first thing in the morning, as he said, to inquire after my health;
when, to please him as much as I could, I had a guard of honour drawn up at the tent door to
fire a salute as he entered; then giving him my iron camp-chair to sit upon, which tickled
him much--for he was very corpulent, and he thought its legs would break down with his weight--we
had a long talk, though it was as much as I could do to remember anything, my brain was so
excited and weak. Kind as he looked and spoke, he forgot all his promises about coveting my
property, and scarcely got over the first salutation before he began begging for many things
that he saw, and more especially for a deole, in order that he might wear it on all great occasions,
to show his contemporaries what a magnanimous man his white visitor was. I soon lost my temper
whilst striving to settle the hongo. Lumeresi would have a deole, and I would not admit that
I had one.

23d to 31st.--Next morning I was too weak to speak moderately, and roared more like a madman
than a rational being, as, breaking his faith, he persisted in bullying me. The day after,
I took pills and blistered my chest all over, still Lumeresi would not let me alone, nor come
to any kind of terms until the 25th, when he said he would take a certain number of pretty
common cloths for his children if I would throw in a red blanket for himself. I jumped at this
concession with the greatest eagerness, paid down my cloths on the spot; and, thinking I was
free at last, ordered a hammock to be slung on a pole, that I might leave the next day. Next
morning, however, on seeing me actually preparing to start, Lumeresi found he could not let
me go until I increased the tax by three more cloths, as some of his family complained that
they had got nothing. After some badgering, I paid what he asked for, and ordered the men to
carry me out of the palace before anything else was done, for I would not sleep another night
where I was. Lumeresi then stood in my way, and said he would never allow a man of his country
to give me any assistance until I was well, for he could not bear the idea of hearing it said
that, after taking so many cloths from me, he had allowed me to die in the jungles--and dissuaded
my men from obeying my orders.

In vain I appealed to his mercy, declaring that the only chance left me of saving my life would
be from the change of air in the hammock as I marched along. He would not listen, professing
humanity, whilst he meant plunder; and I now found that he was determined not to beat the drum
until I had paid him some more, which he was to think over and settle next day. When the next
day came, he would not come near me, as he said I must possess a deole, otherwise I would not
venture on to Karague; for nobody ever yet "saw" Rumanika without one. This suspension of business
was worse than the rows; I felt very miserable, and became worse. At last, on my offering him
anything that he might consider an equivalent for the deole if he would but beat the drums
of satisfaction, he said I might consider myself his prisoner instead of his guest if I persisted
in my obstinacy in not giving him Rumanika's deole; and then again peremptorily ordered all
of his subjects not to assist me in moving a load. After this, veering round for a moment on
the generous tack, he offered me a cow, which I declined.

1st to 4th.--Still I rejected the offered cow, until the 2nd, when, finding him as dogged as
ever, at the advice of my men I accepted it, hoping thus to please him; but it was no use,
for he now said he must have two deoles, or he would never allow me to leave his palace. Every
day matters got worse and worse. Mfumbi, the small chief of Sorombo, came over, in an Oily-Gammon
kind of manner, to say Makaka had sent him over to present his compliments to me, and express
his sorrow on hearing that I had fallen sick here. He further informed me that the road was
closed between this and Usui, for he had just been fighting there, and had killed the chief
Gomba, burnt down all his villages, and dispersed all the men in the jungle, where they now
resided, plundering every man who passed that way. This gratuitous, wicked, humbugging terrifier
helped to cause another defeat. It was all nonsense, I knew, but both Bui and Nasib, taking
fright, begged for their discharges. In fearful alarm and anxiety, I begged them to have patience
and see the hongo settled first, for there was no necessity, at any rate, for immediate hurry;
I wished them to go on ahead with Bombay, as in four days they could reach Suwarora's. But
they said they could not hear of it--they would not go a step beyond this. All the chiefs on
ahead would do the same as Lumeresi; the whole country was roused. I had not even half enough
cloths to satisfy the Wasui; and my faithful followers would never consent to be witness to
my being "torn to pieces."

5th and 6th.--The whole day and half of the next went in discussions. At last, able for the
first time to sit up a little, I succeeded in prevailing on Bui to promise he would go to Usui
as soon as the hongo was settled, provided, as he said, I took on myself all responsibilities
of the result. This cheered me so greatly, I had my chair placed under a tree and smoked my
first pipe. On seeing this, all my men struck up a dance, to the sound of the drums, which
they carried on throughout the whole night, never ceasing until the evening of the next day.
These protracted caperings were to be considered as their congratulation for my improvement
in health; for, until I got into my chair, they always thought I was going to die. They then
told me, with great mirth and good mimicry, of many absurd scenes which, owing to the inflamed
state of my brain, had taken place during my interviews with Lumeresi. Bombay at this time
very foolishly told Lumeresi, if he "really wanted a deole," he must send to Grant for one.
This set the chief raving. He knew there was one in my box, he said, and unless I gave it,
the one with Grant must be brought; for under no circumstances would he allow of my proceeding
northwards until that was given him. Bui and Nasib then gave me the slip, and slept that night
in a neighbouring boma without my knowledge.

7th to 9th.--As things had now gone so far, I gave Lumeresi the deole I had stored away for
Rumanika, telling him, at the same time as he took it, that he was robbing Rumanika, and not
myself; but I hoped, now I had given it, he would beat the drums. The scoundrel only laughed
as he wrapped my beautiful silk over his great broad shoulders, and said, "Yes, this will complete
our present of friendship; now then for the hongo--I must have exactly double of all you have
given." This Sorombo trick I attributed to the instigation of Makaka, for these savages never
fail to take their revenge when they can. I had doubled back from his country, and now he was
cutting me off in front. I expected as much when the oily blackguard Mfumbi came over from
his chief to ask after my health; so, judging from my experience with Makaka, I told Lumeresi
at once to tell me what he considered his due, for this fearful haggling was killing me by
inches. I had no more deoles, but would make that up in brass wire. He then fixed the hongo
at fifteen masango or brass wire bracelets, sixteen cloths of sorts, and a hundred necklaces
of samisami or red coral beads, which was to pay for Grant as well as myself. I paid it down
on the spot; the drums beat the "satisfaction," and I ordered the march with the greatest relief
of mind possible.

But Bui and Nasib were not to be found; they had bolted. The shock nearly killed me. I had
walked all the way to Kaze and back again for these men, to show mine a good example--had given
them pay and treble rations, the same as Bombay and Baraka--and yet they chose to desert. I
knew not what to do, for it appeared to me that, do what I would, we would never succeed; and
in my weakness of body and mind I actually cried like a child over the whole affair. I would
rather have died than have failed in my journey, and yet failure seemed at this juncture inevitable.

8th.--As I had no interpreters, and could not go forward myself, I made up my mind at once
to send back all my men with Bombay, to Grant; after joining whom, Bombay would go back to
Kaze again for other interpreters, and on his return would pick up Grant, and bring him on
here. This sudden decision set all my men up in a flame; they swore it was no use my trying
to go on to Karague; they would not go with me; they did not come here to be killed. If I chose
to lose my life, it was no business of theirs, but they would not be witness to it. They all
wanted their discharge at once; they would not run away, but must have a letter of satisfaction,
and then they would go back to their homes at Zanzibar. But when they found they lost all their
arguments and could not move me, they said they would go back for Grant, but when they had
done that duty, then they would take their leave.

10th to 15th.--This business being at last settled, I wrote to Grant on the subject, and sent
all the men off who were not sick. Thinking then how I could best cure the disease that was
keeping me down, as I found the blister of no use, I tried to stick a packing needle, used
as a seton, into my side; but finding it was not sharp enough, in such weak hands a mine, to
go through my skin, I got Baraka to try; and he failing too, I then made him fire me, for the
coughing was so incessant I could get no sleep at night. I had now nothing whatever to think
of but making dodges for lying easy, and for relieving my pains, or else for cooking strong
broths to give me strength, for my legs were reduced to the appearance of pipe-sticks, until
the 15th, when Baraka, in the same doleful manner as in Sorombo, came to me and said he had
something to communicate, which was so terrible, if I heard it I should give up the march.
Lumeresi was his authority, but he would not tell it until Grant arrive. I said to him, "Let
us wait till Grant arrives; we shall then have some one with us who won't shrink from whispers"--meaning
Bombay; and so I let the matter drop for the time being. But when Grant came, we had it out
of him, and found this terrible mystery all hung on Lumeresi's prognostications that we never
should get through Usui with so little cloth.

16th to 19th.--At night, I had such a terrible air-catching fit, and made such a noise whilst
trying to fill my lungs, that it alarmed all the camp, so much so that my men rushed into my
tent to see if I was dying. Lumeresi, in the morning, then went on a visiting excursion into
the district, but no sooner left than the chief of Isamiro, whose place lies close to the N'yanza,
came here to visit him (17th); but after waiting a day to make friends with me, he departed
(18th), as I heard afterwards, to tell his great Mhuma chief, Rohinda, the ruler of Ukhanga,
to which district this state of Bogue belongs, what sort of presents I had given to Lumeresi.
He was, in fact, a spy whom Rohinda had sent to ascertain what exactions had been made from
me, as he, being the great chief, was entitled to the most of them himself. On Lumeresi's return,
all the men of the village, as well as mine, set up a dance, beating the drums all day and
all night.

20th to 21st.--Next night they had to beat their drums for a very different purpose, as the
Watuta, after lifting all of Makaka's cattle in Sorombo, came hovering about, and declared
they would never cease fighting until they had lifted all those that Lumeresi harboured round
his boma; for it so happened that Lumeresi allowed a large party of Watosi, alias Wahuma, to
keep their cattle in large stalls all round his boma, and these the Watuta had now set their
hearts upon. After a little reflection, however, they thought better of it, as they were afraid
to come in at once on account of my guns.

Most gladdening news this day came in to cheer me. A large mixed caravan of Arabs and coast-men,
arriving from Karague, announced that both Rumanika and Suwarora were anxiously looking out
for us, wondering why we did not come. So great, indeed, was Suwarora's desire to see us, that
he had sent four men to invite us, and they would have been here now, only that one of them
fell sick on the way, and the rest had to stop for him. I cannot say what pleasure this gave
me; my fortune, I thought, was made; and so I told Baraka, and pretended he did not believe
the news to be true. Without loss of time I wrote off to Grant, and got these men to carry
the letter.

Next day (22d) the Wasui from Suwarora arrived. They were a very gentle, nice-dispositioned-looking
set of men--small, but well knit together. They advanced to my tent with much seeming grace;
then knelt at my feet, and began clapping their hands together, saying, at the same time, "My
great chief, my great chief, I hope you are well; for Suwarora, having heard of your detention
here, has sent us over to assure you that all those reports that have been circulated regarding
his ill-treatment of caravans are without foundation; he is sorry for what has happened to
deter your march, and hopes you will at once come to visit him." I then told them all that
had happened--how Grant and myself were situated--and begged them to assist me by going off
to Grant's camp to inspire all the men there with confidence, and bring my rear property to
me--saying, as they agreed to do so, "Here are some cloths and some beads for your expenses,
and when you return I will give you more." Baraka at once, seeing this, told me they were not
trustworthy, for at Mihambo an old man had come there and tried to inveigle him in the same
manner, but he kicked him out of the camp, because he knew he was a touter, who wished merely
to allure him with sweet words to fleece him afterwards. I then wrote to Grant another letter
to be delivered by these men.

Lumeresi no sooner heard of the presents I had given them, than he flew into a passion, called
them imposters, abused them for not speaking to him before they came to me, and said he would
not allow them to go. High words then ensued. I said the business was mine, and not his; he
had no right to interfere, and they should go. Still Lumeresi was obstinate, and determined
they should not, for I was his guest; he would not allow any one to defraud me. It was a great
insult to himself, if true, that Suwarora should attempt to snatch me out of his house; and
he could not bear to see me take these strangers by the hand, when, as we have seen, it took
him so long to entice me to his den, and he could not prevail over me until he actually sent
his copper hatchet.

When this breeze blew over, by Lumeresi's walking away, I told the Wasui not to mind him, but
to do just as I bid them. They said they had their orders to bring me, and if Lumeresi would
not allow them to go for Grant, they would stop where they were, for they knew that if Suwarora
found them delaying long, he would send more men to look after them. There was no peace yet,
however; for Lumeresi, finding them quietly settled down eating with my men, ordered them out
of his district, threatening force if they did not comply at once. I tried my best for them,
but the Wasui, fearing to stop any longer, said they would take leave to see Suwarora, and
in eight days more they would come back again, bringing something with them, the sight of which
would make Lumeresi quake. Further words were now useless, so I gave them more cloth to keep
them up to the mark, and sent them off. Baraka, who seemed to think this generosity a bit of
insanity, grumbled that if I had cloths to throw away it would have been better had I disposed
of them to my own men.

Next day (26th), as I was still unwell, I sent four men to Grant with inquiries how he was
getting on, and a request for medicines. The messengers took four days to bring back the information
that Bombay had not returned from Kaze, but that Grant, having got assistance, hoped to break
ground about the 5th of next month. They brought me at the same time information that the Watuta
had invested Ruhe's, after clearing off all the cattle in the surrounding villages, and had
proclaimed their intention of serving out Lumeresi next. In consequence of this, Lumeresi daily
assembled his grey-beards and had councils of war in his drum-house; but though his subjects
sent to him constantly for troops, he would not assist them.

Another caravan then arrived (31st) from Karague, in which I found an old friend, of half Arab
breed, called Saim, who whilst I was residing with Sheikh Snay at Kaze on my former expedition,
taught me the way to make plantain-wine. 

But it is fair to say that the Christian program in accordance with the evils of the earth, considered
as a punishment from heaven for the sins of men, only tempered by prayer, repentance and pilgrimages,
has been surpassed in its unnerving action of human energy, other equally fatalistic religion out
in the seventh century of the same strain Jewish: "Islam, of the word Islam, which means resignation
to the will of God. "

With the transfer operated by Constantine, the imperial protection and income and assets the
former official worship again, the church became a political power as it was organized in the plan
of the shepherd and the flock, that is, in most opposed to autonomy moral of the individual, freedom
was crushed under two tombstones, and the problem of institutions free for the free development
of personality, vanished from the scene in which was only "feed the sheep of the Lord" at home
and owner benefit delegates and representatives, bishops and princes, only answerable to, and
therefore omnipotent and irresponsible to the human flock.

They could lay hands on all impunity, no one could put on them without being ipso facto condemned.
Individual liberty had not come before a state of greater destruction doctrine, it was understood
that all evil came from the wickedness of the devil or wrath of God, all good grace and authority
of his will, conveyed by management church in a large hierarchy and
inheritance and anointing or theft and enshrining in political, exerting
downward delegation.

This was the customary order of things when they reappeared in Christian Europe brought by ex-prisoners
of the Crusades, the Greek arts and sciences, which were a powerful stimulating mental activity, and
consequently, differentiation of the environment. "The ancient culture, says Renan, as the rivers
disappear into the sand, had a secret way, betraying their existence but not by weak streams
of water until gloriously reappeared in the Renaissance with all
its virtues fertilizing. She was the intellectual yeast modern nations.
" About the same time a man of this place, who had been to Sorombo to purchase
cows, came in with a herd, and was at once seized by Lumeresi; for, during his absence, one
of Lumeresi's daughters had been discovered to be with child, and she, on being asked who was
the cause of it, pointed out that man. To compensate for damage done to himself, as his daughter
by this means had become reduced to half her market-value, Lumeresi seized all the cattle this
man had brought with him.

3d to 10th.--When two days had elapsed, one of the three missing Wahuma women was discovered
in a village close by. As she said she had absconded because her husband had ill-treated her,
she was flogged, to teach her better conduct. It was reported they had been seen in M'yonga's
establishment; and I was at the same time informed that the husbands who were out in search
of them would return, as M'yonga was likely to demand a price for them if they were claimed,
in virtue of their being his rightful property under the acknowledged law of buni, or findings-keepings.

For the next four days nothing but wars and rumours of wars could be heard. The Watuta were
out in all directions plundering cattle and burning villages, and the Wahuma of this place
had taken such fright, they made a stealthy march with all their herds to a neighbouring chief,
to whom it happened that one of Lumeresi's grey-beards was on a visit. They thus caught a Tartar;
for the grey-beard no sooner saw them than he went and flogged them all back again, rebuking
them on the way for their ingratitude to their chief, who had taken them in when they sought
his shelter, and was now deserted by them on the first alarm of war.

10th.--Wishing now to gain further intelligence of Grant, I ordered some of my men to carry
a letter to him; but they all feared the Watuta meeting them on the way, and would not. Just
then a report came in that one of Lumeresi's sons, who had gone near the capital of Ukhanga
to purchase cows, was seized by Rohinda in consequence of the Isamiro chief telling him that
Lumeresi had taken untold wealth from me, and he was to be detained there a prisoner until
Lumeresi either disgorged, or sent me on to be fleeced again. Lumeresi, of course, was greatly
perplexed at this, and sought my advice, but could get nothing out of me, for I laughed in
my sleeve, and told him such was the consequence of his having been too greedy.

11th to 15th.--Masudi with his caravan arrived from Mchimeka--Ungurue "the Pig," who had led
me astray, was, by the way, his kirangozi or caravan-leader. Masudi told us he had suffered
most severely from losses by his men running away, one after the other, as soon as they received
their pay. He thought Grant would soon join me, as, the harvest being all in, the men about
Rungua would naturally be anxious for service. He had had fearful work with M'yonga, having
paid him a gun, some gunpowder, and a great quantity of cloth; and he had to give the same
to Ruhe, with the addition of twenty brass wires, one load of mzizima, and one load of red
coral beads. This was startling, and induced me to send all the men I could prudently spare
off to Grant at once, cautioning him to avoid Ruhe's, as Lumeresi had promised me he would
not allow one other thing to be taken from me. Lumeresi by this time was improving, from lessons
on the policy of moderation which I had been teaching him; for when he tried to squeeze as
much more out of Masudi as Ruhe had taken, he gave way, and let him off cheaply at my intercession.
He had seen enough to be persuaded that this unlimited taxation or plunder system would turn
out a losing game, such as Unyamyembe and Ugogo were at that time suffering from. Moreover,
he was rather put to shame by my saying, "Pray, who now is biggest--Ruhe or yourself? for any
one entering this country would suspect that he was, as he levies the first tax, and gives
people to understand that, by their paying it, the whole district will be free to them; such
at any rate he told me, and so it appears he told Masudi. If you are the sultan, and will take
my advice, I would strongly recommend your teaching Ruhe a lesson, by taking from him what
the Arabs paid, and giving it back to Masudi.

At midnight (16th) I was startled in my sleep by the hurried tramp of several men, who rushed
in to say they were Grant's porters--Bogue men who had deserted him. Grant, they said, in incoherent,
short, rapid, and excited sentences, was left by them standing under a tree, with nothing but
his gun in his hand. All the Wanguana had been either killed or driven away by M'yonga's men,
who all turned out and fell upon the caravan, shooting, spearing, and plundering, until nothing
was left. The porters then, seeing Grant all alone, unable to help him, bolted off to inform
me and Lumeresi, as the best thing they could do. Though disbelieving the story in all its
minutiae, I felt that something serious must have happened; so, without a moment's delay, I
sent off the last of my men strong enough to walk to succour Grant, carrying with them a bag
of beads. Baraka then stepped outside my tent, and said in a loud voice, purposely for my edification,
"There, now, what is the use of thinking any more about going to Karague? I said all along
it was impossible"; upon hearing which I had him up before all the remaining men, and gave
him a lecture, saying, happen what would, I must die or go on with the journey, for shame would
not allow me to give way as Baraka was doing. Countries Muslims
and Christians in the East, Armenia and Abyssinia have been faithful to the first plan, and Christians
in the West have used a dual, in proportions so different currently, while North America has ten schools
for each church and four horsepower per capita, Russia and much of South America have still
ten churches for each national school and a tenth of HP per capita. We we have about four schools
for each church (5,000 and 1,290).

Until the eighteenth century, the primary, secondary and university were arranged to give the
learner an indirect power over the environment by the result of grace divine and the patronage
of the saints, to change or predisposed these phenomena favorable natural way to the personal interests
of the respective devotee, and teaching arranged to give the man a direct power over resource
environments by instruments, machinery and scientific procedures, only began to worsen from
the early nineteenth century. Then began the decline frankly supernatural science and the increasing
development of natural science and its applications to defend life and society, the expansion of production
and communications, improved relations between individuals and among peoples by the community
of arts and sciences, yet on the disparity of beliefs, and coal the most prodigiously fat while
others are emaciated by the use of the miracle, "cost and performance uncertain. "

As the current power of nations depends on the proportion of natural forces that have in the service
of national life, by the cultivation and use of human intelligence
"Queen of the Ocean" in the sixteenth century, not today, not square,
and the more remote country, was then unknown, but as practiced by
a happy intuition of modern science personal hygiene, has become one
of the great powers of the present era, in only forty years of not
using any part of fiscal resources to pay aid imaginary and fully
invest in the ownership of natural energies in the first case world
application of modern methods of life with almost total disregard
of medieval methods.

Instead, it appears that, for compensation or the urgency of lost time, the people who wake
up later than supernaturalism rationalism, wake up completely. So France, so the Portugal, they
have expelled the monks, when England can not yet establish secular and compulsory education
with those, because resist the bishops and his creatures in the House of Lords, and is surpassed
by the U.S. and the French in industries that require greater intelligence in the worker.

Similarly, it also seems that the most Christian of all Christian
virtues, which is spontaneous unpredictability in the wild, deliberately
in the hermit, is replaced by more anti-Christian, which is forecast,
with greater thrust on the people who arrive later to practice.

Notwithstanding the Gospel injunction to live like the lily of the valley and the forest bird, without
thinking about tomorrow, unseeded and without saving, it was possible savings from the cessation
of practice of investing surplus money from this life on the other and then took him industry or trade and
loans to foreign governments.

And the British capital, the first formed, encouraged the advancement of the entire world and
particularly in Latin South without it would still be in barbarism.

Then, in proportion as the French left to worry about the tribulations
of ancestors to meet the descendants, France had been at the outbreak
of the Great Revolution, the country with less capital and most beautiful
debts, going from one extreme to another and going up save the number
of children to enlarge the dowry has become the country with more
capital and more loans receivable.

The other nations, where saving was continued to obtain supernatural powers to ensure the health
of the living and the welfare of the dead, Russia, Spain, Turkey, Portugal, Austria-Hungary,
have not yet passed the conditions of borrowers to lenders.

LIFE AND HEALTH

(The cost of candles)

Harnessed in a particular way of understanding life and its effects,
the individual is determined in the course of their existence by their
mental harnesses, carrying reins, usually, needs supernatural in which
the suffering, the natural or alternatively all tastes, vices, virtues,
love or hatred prevailing at any given time.

The only difference with the draft horse is that one takes the harness and the view outside and the other
takes them inside and invisible, except, of course, that carry the duplicate of the spirit
in professional attire.

Insignificant mental differences from individual to individual, are
huge when they are, by accumulation, differences of millions of millions
of individuals.

Together many strands of straw stop the passage of an elephant and many trifles cumulative stop
the march of a nation.

In its original form, mysticism was the subordination of the body's health to health the soul, so
that any decline in import was necessarily an improvement of life.

Practical spirit that was characteristic of the Romans in antiquity,
was revived as opposed to mystical spirit and became a feature of
the peoples that have submitted the Reformation, particularly whites,
while the medieval spirit continued remain the property of the people
who remained faithful to medieval mysticism.

And more significant with the passage of time the new trend, it has
been in the most practical of modern nations to make the religion
itself an instrument of mental suggestion bodily health, in the "Christian
Science" by Mrs. Eddy.

Under the doctrine of the atonement of sin by suffering, and rejection
of pagan customs, the filth was erected in religious virtue, and then
Muhammad set ablutions as a religious practice.

With this, in the struggle for health, this element of superiority was part of the Muslims,
who won two large parts of Europe, providing them a civilization
higher than they had evicted.

That advantage was then countered and overcome by the greater development
of science and the arts among Christians, the rising influence of
rationalism, with more force or against less resistance in some regions,
so that two or three centuries later, nations Christian Europe were
very unequally powerful.

In the twelfth century, the health advocacy was made by the prayers
and amulets in the East, for the prayers and relics in the West.

The Reformation was a movement of an economic nature for the abolition of trade in indulgences and
relics, disqualified the miracle to disqualify the vehicle for extortion, and was reborn this
juncture pagan hygiene in the formulation of "mens sana in corpore
sano", for bathing and sports, a point where it can be said that hygiene
was reborn through natural methods and Anglo-Saxon Protestant mainly.

When the sick are healed by a miracle only, was unfounded and there were no hygiene and therapeutics,
which were condemned by the Church in defense of chastity and Thaumaturgy
respectively, while mortality equaled birth rates and natural growth
of populations was zero or negligible, while the health of the living
entrusted to the will of the dead in the heroism and holiness.

Change decreased the population of vermin and external parasites of tenants messiness, staff unaware
of the medieval salvation, with the use of soap and shirt visible and washable Burmmel invented,
news that would have spread very slowly there where the feel of the theologians had found
its complement in the old adage popular "Pig fattening never clean."

Defining the new way to make the defense of life against the unhealthy environment Americans say
"the civilization of a country is measured by the use of soap" and consequently, the uncivilization should
be measured by the use of candles to the saints the same object.

When the miracle was the exclusive agent for the preservation of health,
mortality exceeded 30 per thousand, and because of the enormous child
mortality, the average human life was not more than fifteen years,
have doubled for whites primarily because experimental hygiene has
lowered the mortality to about 15 per thousand, while beyond twenty-five
still in the Spanish strain.

Calculated for this average 20:000.000 people in the nineteenth century, taking the number Saxon
people who have died inevitably and its difference with the figure for Spanish and Latin American
who has died avoidable mystical hygiene would have cost twenty million lives, prematurely annihilated
in the century that has established sound hygiene.

And to continue in the same regard, another twenty million lives, with another two billion of
pesos are lost, avoidable holocaust to faith in hygiene and therapy supernatural.

"The main industry of the Middle Ages, says Seignobos was raising
bees wax to enlighten the churches, and honey to sweeten the wine.

"In Russia, where the illiterate people is 97% and the continued use of health advocacy through candle
wax, every thousand children, 495 die before age 5. In two years of U.S. administration mortality,
which was 132 0 | 00 under Spanish rule, dropped to 22 0 | 00 in Cuba [9].

Telegraph reportedly Santiago de Chile, last month there have perished seven children under
one year, but the full horror of this event is outside the Hispanic mental harnesses, as they were before
out of the reach of their feelings torture, servitude, slavery, despotism, ignorance and misery
in a row.

To see how a single theologian, these children would have gone straight to heaven or limbo, as
they were baptized, and "san" is over.

The loss for this matter the country and race, being a gain for heaven, not taken into account,
since for harnesses that have to go to another world, Jewish, Christian, Muslim, etc., the interests
of this world are beyond the respective road, when the blinkers are very large and can still
reach the destination without having taken a stand on this planet. Ie that in one month and a
single source, the population of those places will have increased
with 700 infants in perpetuity by ecclesiastical appropriation.

RELIGION AND SCIENCE

The goal of science is the life spent in the natural world, and the theology is the lag and no
lag, and is in the foreground.

As life and natural laws are the same everywhere, there is one verifiable science of life and
more than four thousand religions or unverifiable science of life and death.

If salvation depends on not eat ham or not to drink alcohol, or drink three drops daily holy cow
urine, cow or eating on a Friday profane, are matters which are out
of positive science, because the imaginary problems can only be raised
and determined by the imaginary science.

Because the mind has the privilege of leaving reality, constructed
realities mental people with them the natural world, and arrange them
personal conduct, can ill-advised greater or lesser extent, which
will more or less unfavorable influence on the subject and its surroundings
and any on his theology, for all the evil that it will be considered
as an inevitable fate or as infinitely inferior to the real unverifiable.

For This science is sought as the bread, because the real profits that provides everyone who uses it,
and religion is inherited like the color of the skin and hold it,
even to reduce individual and national opportunities for imaginary
profits provides that believes and does not provide that does not
believe her and that this is not sought, neither wants or rejects.

Life can be reduced or lowered in different percentage for a scaffold of terrors and unrealistic
expectations or the decrease of the senses or intellect, or both
misfortunes together, and the balance will be different but the line
will be equal, corresponding each different plan of life a different
length ratio as well.

"The mind that goes parallel with the laws of nature will be current events, and strengthened those
forces, "says Emerson. And do not go parallel will not be strengthened and that goes against will be
weakened by them, because man can do his truth and wander with it, but can not make the truth
of the outside world and lose it in the same direction.

As the dangers and supernatural defenses exist only by creation of the human spirit are different
in kind and degree in all negotiations and latitudes and susceptible abandoned or maintained,
decreased or increased, by simple change of thought, without change
in the world other than the use of the subject's life itself, will
cease to spend them if you cease to believe in them, or spend twice
if you think twice, to the detriment or benefit of the respective
brokers, interested in maintaining this instinctively the highest
voltage in the supernatural terror to milk it more profitably, for
which made before the people believe that the world was by and for
the beliefs and would end if they cease.

As in central Europe and western theologians failed to maintain maximum tension universal religious
terror, the human mind could free itself from the theological danger
and reach to aggrandize the power of cosmic energy, working for free
for anyone who learns how to govern them.

In the imaginary ills, the employer of choice is, of course, the most enthusiastic and most indefatigable
propagandist of danger: each is concerned to believe in the reality
of hell that can take prisoners, and at the same time the most ardent
denier the existence of the other hells that take other specialists.

It turns out that the dangers and fears of the past are grafted supernatural, not only religious
institutions but political institutions of the past, so that there are two large and powerful interest
in maintaining it, since his termination entail the collapse of both. And the biggest complication
in competition international education imposed by the people, otherwise canceled abruptly or
slowly the country that abolished or reduced.
 On the 4th, Lumeresi was again greatly perplexed by his sovereign Rohinda calling
on him for some cloths; he must have thirty at least, else he would not give up Lumeresi's
son. Further, he commanded in a bullying tone that all the Wahuma who were with Lumeresi should
be sent to him at once, adding, at the same time, if his royal mandate was not complied with
as soon as he expected, he would at once send a force to seize Lumeresi, and place another
man in his stead to rule over the district.

Lumeresi, on hearing this, first consulted me, saying his chief was displeased with him, accusing
him of being too proud, in having at once two such distinguished guests, and meant by these
acts only to humble him. I replied, if that was the case, the sooner he allowed us to go, the
better it would be for him; and, reminding him of his original promise to give me assistance
on to Usui, said he could do so now with a very good grace.

Quite approving himself of this suggestion, Lumeresi then gave me one of his officers to be
my guide--his name was Sangizo. This man no sooner received his orders than, proud of his office
as the guide of such a distinguished caravan, he set to work to find us porters. Meanwhile
my Wasui friends, who left on the 25th of August, returned, bearing what might be called Suwarora's
mace--a long rod of brass bound up in stick charms, and called Kaquenzingiriri, "the commander
of all things." This they said was their chief's invitation to see us, and sent this Kaquenzingiriri,
to command us respect wherever we went.

5th.--Without seeing us again, Lumeresi, evidently ashamed of the power held over him by this
rod of Suwarora's, walked off in the night, leaving word that he was on his way to Ruhe's,
to get back my gun and all the other things that had been taken from Grant. The same night
a large herd of cattle was stolen from the boma without any one knowing it; so next morning,
when the loss was discovered, all the Wahuma set off on the spoor to track them down; but with
what effect I never knew.

As I had now men enough to remove half our property, I made a start of it, leaving Grant to
bring up the rest. I believe I was a most miserable spectre in appearance, puffing and blowing
at each step I took, with shoulder drooping, and left arm hanging like a dead leg, which I
was unable ever to swing. Grant, remarking this, told me then, although fro a friendly delicacy
he had abstained from saying so earlier, that my condition, when he first saw me on rejoining,
gave him a sickening shock. Next day (7th) he came up with the rest of the property, carried
by men who had taken service for that one march only.

Before us now lay a wilderness of five marches' duration, as the few villages that once lined
it had all been depopulated by the Sorombo people and the Watuta. We therefore had to lay in
rations for those days, and as no men could be found who would take service to Karague, we
filled up our complement with men at exorbitant wages to carry our things on to Usui. At this
place, to our intense joy, three of Sheikh Said's boys came to us with a letter from Rigby;
but, on opening it, our spirits at once fell far below zero, for it only informed us that he
had sent us all kinds of nice things, and letters from home, which were packed up in boxes,
and despatched from the coast on the 30th October 1860.

The boys then told me that a merchant, nickname Msopora, had left the boxes in Ugogo, in charge
of some of those Arabs who were detained there, whilst he went rapidly round by the south,
following up the Ruaha river to Usanga and Usenga, whence he struck across to Kaze. Sheikh
Said, they said, sent his particular respects to me; he had heard of Grant's disasters with
great alarm. If he could be of service, he would readily come to me; but he had dreamed three
times that he saw me marching into Cairo, which, as three times were lucky, he was sure would
prove good, and he begged I would still keep my nose well to the front, and push boldly on.
Manua Sera was still in the field, and all was uncertain. Bombay then told me--he had forgotten
to do so before--that when he was last at Kaze, Sheikh said told him he was sure we would succeed
if both he and myself pulled together, although it was well known no one else of my party wished
to go northwards.

With at last a sufficiency of porters, we all set out together, walking over a new style of
country. Instead of the constantly-recurring outcrops of granite, as in Unyamuezi, with valleys
between, there were only two lines of little hills visible, one right and one left of us, a
good way off; whilst the ground over which we were travelling, instead of being confined like
a valley, rose in long high swells of sandstone formation, covered with small forest-trees,
among which flowers like primroses, only very much larger, and mostly of a pink colour, were
frequently met with. Indeed, we ought all to have been happy together, for all my men were
paid and rationed trebly--far better than they would have been if they had been travelling
with any one else; but I had not paid all, as they thought, proportionably, and therefore there
were constant heartburnings, with strikes and rows every day. It was useless to tell them that
they were all paid according to their own agreements--that all short-service men had a right
to expect more in proportion to their work than long-service ones; they called it all love
and partiality, and in their envy would think themselves ill-used.

At night the kirangozi would harangue the camp, cautioning all hands to keep together on the
line of march, as the Watuta were constantly hovering about, and the men should not squabble
and fight with their master, else no more white men would come this way again. On the 11th
we were out of Bogue, in the district of Ugomba, and next march brought us into Ugombe (12th),
where we crossed the Ukongo nullah, draining westwards to the Malagarai river. Here some of
the porters, attempting to bolt, were intercepted by my coast-men and had a fight of it, for
they fired arrows, and in return the coast-men cut their bows. The whole camp, of course, was
in a blaze at this; their tribe was insulted, and they would not stand it, until Bombay put
down their pride with a few strings of beads, as the best means of restoring peace in the camp.

At this place we were visited by the chief of the district, Pongo (Bush-boc), who had left
his palace to see us and invite us his way, for he feared we might give him the slip by going
west into Uyofu. He sent us a cow, and said he should like some return; for Masudi, who had
gone ahead, only gave him a trifle, professing to be our vanguard, and telling him that as
soon as we came with the large caravan we would satisfy him to his heart's content. We wished
for an interview, but he would not see us, as he was engaged looking into his magic horn, with
an endeavour to see what sort of men we were, as none of our sort had ever come that way before.

The old sort of thing occurred again. I sent him one kitambi and eight yards kiniki, explaining
how fearfully I was reduced from theft and desertions, and begging he would have mercy; but
instead of doing so he sent the things back in a huff, after a whole day's delay, and said
he required, besides, one sahari, one kitambi, and eight yards kiniki. In a moment I sent them
over, and begged he would beat the drums; but no, he thought he was entitled to ten brass wires,
in addition, and would accept them at his palace the next day, as he could not think of allowing
us to leave his country until we had done him that honour, else all the surrounding chiefs
would call him inhospitable.

Too knowing now to be caught with such chaff, I told him, through Bombay, if he would consider
the ten brass wires final, I would give them, and then go to his palace, not otherwise. He
acceded to this, but no sooner got them, than he broke his faith, and said he must either have
more pretty cloths, or five more brass wires, and then, without doubt, he would beat the drums.
A long badgering bargain ensued, at which I made all my men be present as witnesses, and we
finally concluded the hongo with four more brass wires.

The drums then no sooner beat the satisfaction, than the Wasui mace-bearers, in the most feeling
and good-mannered possible manner, dropped down on their knees before me, and congratulated
me on the cessation of this tormenting business. Feeling much freer, we now went over and put
up in Pong's palace, for we had to halt there a day to collect more porters, as half my men
had just bolted. This was by no means an easy job, for all my American sheeting was out, and
so was the kiniki. Pongo then for the first time showed himself, sneaking about with an escort,
hiding his head in a cloth lest our "evil eyes" might bewitch him. Still he did us a good turn;
for on the 16th he persuaded his men to take service with us at the enormous hire of ten necklaces
of beads per man for every day's march--nearly ten times what an Arab pays. Fowls were as plentiful
here as elsewhere, though the people only kept them to sell to travellers, or else for cutting
them open for diving purposes, by inspection of their blood and bones.

From the frying pan we went into the fire in crossing from Ugombe into the district of Wanga,
where we beat up the chief, N'yaruwamba, and at once went into the hongo business. He offered
a cow to commence with, which I would not accept until the tax was paid, and then I made my
offering of two wires, one kitambi, and one kisutu. Badgering then commenced: I must add two
wires, and six makete or necklaces of mzizima beads, the latter being due to the chief for
negotiating the tax. When this addition was paid, we should be freed by beat of drum.

I complied at once, by way of offering a special mark of respect And friendship, and on the
reliance that he would keep his word. The scoundrel, however, no sooner got the articles, than
he said a man had just come there to inform hi that I gave Pongo ten wires and ten cloths;
he, therefore, could not be satisfied until I added one more wire, when, without fail, he would
beat the drums. It was given, after many angry words; but it was the old story over again--he
would have one more wire and a cloth, or else he would not allow us to proceed on the morrow.
My men, this time really provoked, said they would fight it out;--a king breaking his word
in that way! But in the end the demand had to be paid; and at last, at 9 P.M., the drums beat
the satisfaction.

From this we went on to the north end of Wanga, in front of which was a wilderness, separating
the possessions of Rohinda from those of Suwarora. We put up in a boma, but were not long ensconced
there when the villagers got up a pretext for a quarrel, thinking they could plunder us of
all our goods, and began pitching into my men. We, however, proved more than a match for them.
Our show of guns frightened them all out of the place; my men then gave chase, firing off in
the air, which sent them flying over the fields, and left us to do there as we liked until
night, when a few of the villagers came back and took up their abode with us quietly. Next,
after dark, the little village was on the alert again. The Watuta were out marching, and it
was rumoured that they were bound for M'yaruwamba's. The porters who were engaged at Pongo's
now gave us the slip: we were consequently detained here next day (19th), when, after engaging
a fresh set, we crossed the wilderness, and in Usui put up with Suwarora's border officer of
this post, N'yamanira.

Here we were again brought to a standstill.

Chapter VII. Usui

Taxation recommenced--A Great Doctor--Suwarora pillaging--The Arabs--Conference with an Ambassador
from Uganda--Disputes in Camp--Rivalry of Bombay and Baraka--Departure from the Inhospitable
Districts.

We were now in Usui, and so the mace-bearers, being on their own ground forgot their manners,
and peremptorily demanded their pay before they would allow us to move one step farther. At
first I tried to stave the matter off, promising great rewards if they took us quickly on to
Suwarora; but they would take no alternative--their rights were four wires each. I could not
afford such a sum, and tried to beat them down, but without effect; for they said, they had
it in their power to detain us here a whole month, and they could get us bullied at every stage
by the officers of the stations. No threats of reporting them to their chief had any effect,
so, knowing that treachery in these countries was a powerful enemy, I ordered them to be paid.
N'yamanira, the Mkungu, then gave us a goat and two pots of pombe, begging, at the same time,
for four wires, which I paid, hoping thus to get on in the morning.

I then made friends with him, and found he was a great doctor as well as an officer. In front
of his hut he had his church or uganga--a tree, in which was fixed a blaue boc's horn charged
with magic powder, and a zebra's hoof, suspended by a string over a pot of water sunk in the
earth below it. His badges of office he had tied on his head; the butt of a shell, representing
the officer's badge, being fixed on the forehead, whilst a small sheep's horn, fixed jauntily
over the temple, denoted that he was a magician. Wishing to try my powers in magical arts,
as I laughed at his church, he begged me to produce an everlasting spring of water by simply
scratching the ground. He, however, drew short up, to the intense delight of my men, on my
promising that I would do so if he made one first.

At night, 22d, a steel scabbard and some cloths were extracted from our camp, so I begged my
friend the great doctor would show us the use of his horn. This was promised, but never performed.
I then wished to leave, as the Wasui guides, on receiving their pay, promised we should; but
they deferred, on the plea that one of them must see their chief first, and get him to frank
us through, else, they said, we should be torn to pieces. I said I thought the Kaquenzingiriri
could do this; but they said, "No; Suwarora must be told first of your arrival, to prepare
him properly for your coming; so stop here for three days with two of us, whilst the third
one goes to the palace and returns again; for you know the chiefs of these countries do not
feel safe until they have a look at the uganga."

One of them then went away, but no sooner had left than a man named Makinga arrived to invite
us on, as he said, at his adopted brother K'yengo's request. Makinga then told us that Suwarora,
on first hearing that we were coming, became greatly afraid, and said he would not let us set
eyes on his country, as he was sure we were king-dethroners; but, referring for opinion to
Dr K'yengo, his fears were overcome by the doctor assuring him that he had seen hosts of our
sort at Zanzibar; and he knew, moreover, that some years ago we had been to Ujiji and to Ukerewe
without having done any harm in those places; and, further, since Musa had sent word that I
had done my best to subdue the war at Unyanyembe, and had promised to do my best here, he,
Suwarora, had been anxiously watching our movements, and longed for our arrival. This looked
famous, and it was agreed we should move the next morning. Just then a new light broke in on
my defeat at Sorombo, for with Makinga I recognised one of my former porters, who I had supposed
was a "child" of the Pig's. This man now said before all my men, Baraka included, that he wished
to accept the load of mzizima I had offered the Pig if he would go forward with Baraka and
tell Suwarora I wanted some porters to help me to reach him. He was not a "child" of the Pig's,
but a "child" of K'yengo's; and as Baraka would not allow him to accept the load of mzizima,
he went on to K'yengo by himself, and told all that had happened. It was now quite clear what
motives induced Suwarora to send out the three Wasui; but how I blessed Baraka for this in
my heart, though I said nothing about it to him, for fear of his playing some more treacherous
tricks. Grant then told me Baraka had been frightened at Mininga, by a blackguard Mganga to
whom he would not give a present, into the belief that our journey would encounter some terrible
mishap; for, when the M'yonga catastrophe happened, he thought that a fulfillment of the Mganga's
prophecy.

I wished to move in the morning (23d), and had all hands ready, but was told by Makinga he
must be settled with first. His dues for the present were four brass wires, and as many more
when we reached the palace. I could not stand this: we were literally, as Musa said we should
be, being "torn to pieces"; so I appealed to the mace-bearers, protested that Makinga could
have no claims on me, as he was not a man of Usui, but a native of Utambara, and brought on
a row. On the other hand, as he could not refute this, Makinga swore the mace was all a pretence,
and set a-fighting with the Wasui and all the men in turn.

To put a stop to this, I ordered a halt, and called on the district officer to assist us, on
which he said he would escort us on to Suwarora's if we would stop till next morning. This
was agreed to; but in the night we were robbed of three goats, which he said he could not allow
to be passed over, lest Suwarora might hear of it, and he would get into a scrape. He pressed
us strongly to stop another day whilst he sought for them, but I told him I would not, as his
magic powder was weak, else he would have found the scabbard we lost long before this.

At last we got under way, and, after winding through a long forest, we emerged on the first
of the populous parts of Usui, a most convulsed-looking country, of well-rounded hills composed
of sandstone. In all the parts not under cultivation they were covered with brushwood.

Happily no one tried to pillage us here, so on we went to Vikora's, another officer, living
at N'yakasenye, under a sandstone hill, faced with a dyke of white quartz, over which leaped
a small stream of water--a seventy-feet drop--which, it is said, Suwarora sometimes paid homage
to when the land was oppressed by drought. Vikora's father it was whom Sirboko of Mininga shot.
Usually he was very severe with merchants in consequence of that act; but he did not molest
us, as the messenger who went on to Suwarora returned here just as we arrived, to say we must
come on at once, as Suwarora was anxious to see us, and had ordered his Wakungu not to molest
us. Thieves that night entered our ringfence of thorns, and stole a cloth from off one of my
men while he was sleeping.

We set down Suwarora, after this very polite message, "a regular trump," and walked up the
hill of N'yakasenye with considerable mirth, singing his praises; but we no sooner planted
ourselves on the summit than we sang a very different tune. We were ordered to stop by a huge
body of men, and to pay toll.

Suwarora, on second thoughts, had changed his mind, or else he had been overruled by two of
his officers--Kariwami, who lived here, and Virembo, who lived two stages back, but were then
with their chief. There was no help for it, so I ordered the camp to be formed, and sent Nasib
and the mace-bearers at once off to the palace to express to his highness how insulted I felt
as his guest, being stopped in this manner, even when I had his Kaquenzingiriri with me as
his authority that I was invited there as a guest. I was not a merchant who carried merchandise,
but a prince like himself, come on a friendly mission to see him and Rumanika. I was waiting
at night for the return of the messengers, and sitting out with my sextant observing the stars,
to fix my position, when some daring thieves, in the dark bushes close by, accosted two of
the women of the camp, pretending a desire to know what I was doing. They were no sooner told
by the unsuspecting women, than they whipped off their cloths and ran away with them, allowing
their victims to pass me in a state of absolute nudity. I could stand this thieving no longer.
My goats and other things had been taken away without causing me much distress of mind, but
now, after this shocking event, I ordered my men to shoot at any thieves that came near them.

This night one was shot, without any mistake about it; for the next morning we tracked him
by his blood, and afterwards heard he had died of his wound. The Wasui elders, contrary to
my expectation, then came and congratulated us on our success. They thought us most wonderful
men, and possessed of supernatural powers; for the thief in question was a magician, who until
now was thought to be invulnerable. Indeed, they said Arabs with enormous caravans had often
been plundered by these people; but though they had so many more guns than ourselves, they
never succeeded in killing one.

Nasib then returned to inform us that the king had heard our complaint, and was sorry for it,
but said he could not interfere with the rights of his officers. He did not wish himself to
take anything from us, and hoped we would come on to him as soon as we had satisfied his officers
with the trifle they wanted. Virembo then sent us some pombe by his officers, and begged us
to have patience, for he was then fleecing Masudi at the encamping-ground near the palace.
This place was alive with thieves. During the day they lured my men into their huts by inviting
them to dinner; but when they got them they stripped them stark-naked and let them go again;
whilst at night they stone our camp. After this, one more was shot dead and two others wounded.

I knew that Suwarora's message was all humbug, and that his officers merely kept about one
per cent. of what they took from travellers, paying the balance into the royal coffers. Thinking
I was now well in for a good fleecing myself, I sent Bombay off to Masudi's camp, to tell Insangez,
who was travelling with him on a mission of his master's, old Musa's son, that I would reward
him handsomely if he would, on arrival at Karague, get Rumanika to send us his mace here in
the same way as Suwarora had done to help us out of Bogue, as he knew Musa at one time said
he would go with us to Karague in person. When Bombay was gone, Virembo then deputed Kariwami
to take the hongo for both at once, mildly requiring 40 wires, 80 cloths, and 400 necklaces
of every kind of bead we possessed. This was, indeed, too much of a joke. I complained of all
the losses I had suffered, and begged for mercy; but all he said, after waiting the whole day,
was, "Do not stick at trifles; for, after settling with us, you will have to give as much more
to Vikora, who lives down below."

Next morning, as I said I could not by any means pay such an exorbitant tax as was demanded,
Kariwami begged me to make an offer which I did by sending him four wires. These, of course,
were rejected with scorn; so, in addition, I sent an old box. That, too, was thrown back on
me, as nothing short of 20 wires, 40 cloths, and 200 necklaces of all sorts of beads, would
satisfy him; and this I ought to be contented to pay, as he had been so moderate because I
was the king's guest, and had been so reduced by robbery. I now sent six wires more, and said
this was the last I could give--they were worth so many goats to me--and now by giving them
away, I should have to live on grain like a poor man, though I was a prince in my own country,
just like Suwarora. Surely Suwarora could not permit this if he knew it; and if they would
not suffice, I should have to stop here until called again by Suwarora. The ruffian, on hearing
this, allowed the wires to lie in his hut, and said he was going away, but hoped, when he returned,
I should have, as I had got no cloths, 20 wires, and 1000 necklaces of extra length, strung
and all ready for him.

Just then Bombay returned flushed with the excitement of a great success. He had been in Masudi's
camp, and had delivered my message to Insangez. The usurper was forced to replace
the momentum of the fact consented, it is the strength of a species (and missing always done
again when the environment has not changed), a supplementary force equivalent of another species, which
in our case was designated as the "special powers". Thus, the chronic terror, which was enough for
the fact chronic terror becomes acute acute need for fact.

As the French terror, terror Argentine left of the foregoing circumstances, continuing in different
shape and size. "Do not be deleted but it is replaced," and when replacing with something of
the same species, in varying degrees, "plus ça change, plus c'est la même chose."

Force and fear was the former colonial regime, more strength and fear was fatally and Regular restored
by Rosas regime. A new factor, and other species, was introduced after, say one for only the influence
of this have been possible other, not being viable ignorant and backward people in European immigration,
free press, railways, telegraphs, etc., etc. And the most interesting problem of sociology
Argentina may be posed in these terms: why we were still semi-barbarian in the first half of the
century last, after 1,500 years of Christianity forced, and we are already more than half-civilized
with 50 years of schooling almost mandatory?

* * *

Of course, civilization is the economics of life and suffering, and the corresponding enhancement
of the amenities of life.

Although theology was not proposed to civilize the men for this world (such as philosophy, pedagogy,
politics and health), but for the other, the men had proved even in this civilized involuntarily,
but had the disability itself or springs immoral, in a back room of ancient monstrosities,
enough to neutralize and even sometimes overcome all of its elements and cultural factors, even
at its highest representatives. It is legitimate to assume that without the intervention of
Greek philosophy and positive science, the pure Christian civilization would have remained
semi-barbarous and absolutist such as Islam. And it is equally certain that the Spanish Christianity,
as introduced in America by the conquistadores, contained more elements
diabolical than divine, more fear that love, more harm than good,
removing men confidence in themselves and making slaves of terror.

According to modern theories, that daily experience confirms, the individual plays in brief
the evolution of the species, so that even in civilized nations, we all start the existence in the mental
state of the wild adult, both unjust and vengeful feelings needs, desires, hopes and fears, and
knows no duties or responsibilities, we are naturally easier and accessible what has this character
and not the opposite given that the anger, hatred, terror, alcohol or accidental brain damage
or permanently deprive us of acquired and superimposed culture - the more easily the weaker
or newer ie - stayed in the initial pure barbarism, and overlooks
the wild is always latent in civilized man.

Consequently, what all have of primitive religion is what the child
can understand and treated immediately, it is consistent with his
intellect early or primitive and it will stay when other factors do
not rise to higher skills.

Conversely, what a religion has its own high and the highest development of spirit, you can not
understand, and it will happen by raising the child and the poor
in spirit, as happened in the experiment of the Jesuits, who developed
the Christian automata Missions.

"The Chinese preference to entertain the gods of evil, says Beauvoir. His maxim is: Do not care
of the divine good, as good, but will support the poor that can harm. "Understandably While
the gods of savages are always bad, if you think that only then respectable character are intelligible
to the child or those of civilized peoples. "Tata God, who has no toys or candy, and angry with
bad or disobedient children, and punished, not unlike the "Cuckoo" but it always does evil, without
before you get angry, because it is bad profession. Also, if God was angry and punished, the child
would not touch a case. And if not accustomed send cataclysms, earthquakes, plagues, epidemics.,
etc., for the reluctant, nor would a lot of money for churches of
believers adults.

"Present the wild, says Lecky, the conception of an invisible being, to worship without the aid
of any material representation, and will be unfit to understand. Have no force or palpable reality to
his mind, and therefore can not influence your life. Idolatry is the common religion of the natives,
simply because it is the only that its conditions Intellectuals can admit, and, in one form or another,
will continue until those conditions have been changed. "When they are, the semi-wild mind will
be a seedbed of invisible beings, which later will become incomprehensible, for the former
wild, this is how progress amazing lights made witchcraft, and testo
sacred, "not suffer a witch alive, "has been recited, but impractical.

Preventing or prohibiting the intellectual culture and tolerance, culture is morality, Christian
churches that were in it the heaven and hell, civilization and barbarism, suppressed mental possibilities
for the upper parts of their own doctrines, and they were misunderstood, unheeded, while the
parties were living below letter during the ten centuries of pre-scientific era, in which Christian
civilization, with hell and devils, witches, goblins, and wizards hechicheros, incubus, succubus,
Sylphs, gnomes, etc. with servitude, slavery and torture, it differed
from the Jewish or Muslim but because of their greater ferocity.

The music itself can understand or ignores each in proportion to the pitch or the detuning of your
ear, and goes without anyone can understand and feel but what within their reach intellectual
and moral founders of religions have been common spirits, but exceptionally
high, and therefore almost always misunderstood by their peers, to
pursue and kill them.

A natural tendency leads us to think and feel that everything is good to be believed, spread and spread.
But believing is not understood or felt: everything can be believed, from the absurd to the incomprehensible,
which is why there are so many religions in the human spirit winds in the atmosphere, but not
everything can be understood and felt by all. A big idea can not fit into a narrow-minded,
not a generous sentiment rooted in a wretched soul. For this credulity is not a substitute
for the intelligentsia. The believer of a religion can believe it all whole, but only you can understand
the share of their mind, and it alone shall be substantial component
of his spirit, and will result in their actions else being as simple
tenant verbal, spoken word, but unworkable.

* * *

If you believe a doctrine were sufficient to acquire a superior intellectual and moral superior,
there would be no possible explanation for the 1,800 years of Christian barbarism that have run
in parallel the Sermon on the Mount.

"Behind the cross is the devil," says the proverb under heaven is hell. The Christian clergyman,
born in barbarous times, with eternal punishment and such sentences,
and for this diabolical and divine at the same time, half savage and
half sublime, is directly comparable up to the wild in what is a savage,
but in it that is just sublime high spirits, or exceptionally good
temperaments, which appear even among the completely barbarous.

This explains why all inflaming religious was always accompanied by
an upsurge correlative of barbarism, as in Scotland Knox Calvin in
Switzerland or Spain's Torquemada.

The development of the human spirit in its various phases, during the Greco-Roman civilization
could be figured by a zigzag upward, ending at the end of empire, eclipsing to disappear completely in a
form of moralism that meant to dispense with all forms of mental activity which had thrived
under paganism and led to the re-flowering side of primitive superstitions,
relegated by them to the second plan, but not extinct.

Is what would happen today if schools were closed and destroyed the books, suppressed banned the press
and modern forms of thought. Earlier forms provided underlying take the place vacant, rising
to the first plan, the casters, the relics and the images again to evict miracle doctors, theologians
to lawyers; the whip to teaching methods, and the letter, again converted
into vehicle absurd sacred blood re-enter by the back sides of recalcitrant
pupil.

Ruled disinterest safety or hope of reward to virtue, salvation from evil and death through ceremonies,
rituals and magic words, the largest of wonders was not feasible then than it is today, educated
or trained minds reasoning, and was more viable so that now the spirits naive acclimated causation
mysterious stream. Repudiated by them was accepted by them, together with the vegetation of superstitions
Asian, African and European, which may travel pot in the underworld of the Roman Empire, and
were also accepted in part and repudiated the rest, just as we have today supported superstitions,
superstitions tolerated and superstitions banned by the state.

Would not be feasible in such an environment without assimilating any part thereof to serve as bridge between
the old and new, that's how much of the evil deities of antiquity, which had transferred the wild
terror of the unknown - making the race of oysters, which began to be humble dish to finish the
disinherited in prized delicacy of the wealthy - have become the
pillars on which rests teachers the power of the Church of the privileged
classes and the ruling families.

Built poverty of spirit in Christian virtue, being the most favorable condition to admission and retention
of the most wonderful human conception, the descent of spirit critical, so disqualified, was
the immediate result, but not enough in the beginning. Natural credulity enough to accept
a closed bundle beliefs of our ancestors, when you have none, and is the biggest obstacle to
abandon them when it does. The new religious truth, therefore, had to take the place of it
by the door wide superstitions, putting guards there to theology, to prevent access to new arrivant
of the same or another strain, and it was the goalkeeper threw him
all away.

The criterion of supernatural truth was, then as now, the fact supernatural miracle, that is, the
absurdity met - in theology, and in theosophy, in spiritualism, healing or "christian science".
The Christian miracle was performed against the devil and pagan gods was supposed to be their representatives,
then the first thing was ratified by the miracle the pre-existence of the devil, because without
it lacked what reason. Miracles good miracles involving bad, and the effectiveness of a remedy
confirms the existence of relevant disease, and the Christian devil, who was the personification summary
of all evil powers of all gods barbarians barbaric past of humanity, coupled from the first
moment to the Sermon on the Mount, could cause more than ten centuries of barbarism effectively
in parallel with the highest moral theory, and the heels of the highest
civilization of classical antiquity.

Indeed, in the seventh century, which marks the "Nadir" the human spirit, begins the preponderance
ancestral forms resurgent after the disappearance of the philosopher, and the dark barbarizant
infernal wave that starts from the spiritual abyss, obscures the Middle Ages destroying lives and
property, and delaying for centuries the development of positive science and humanitarian sentiments,
because it is the economic basis of the power hierarchy Church, which is what is the secret
of its periodic exaggerations and duration. Until well ahead of the eighteenth century, women
perished by hanging or burning at tens of thousands in the single line of witchcraft, as men
for heresy, inhumanities from religious morality, and did not give
up until the advent of human morality.

* * *

The fight for life raises in each species the conditions for quality particular, real or imaginary.
It is at least doubtful that the condition of scared of hell and haunted by demons, has earned
to fend of evil men as they have been worse at times when that has prevailed more strongly, and still
are in the regions and social strata that is more widespread. This condition involves modes specific
thinking, feeling and acting, variables with intensity and personal temperament, from the charity
to the poor through construction of temples, from simple devotion
preservative to mysticism and madness tracker, which transformed his
delirium exacerbated persecution.

In the first form, "the holy terror of hell" covered with churches, convents and shrines Asia Minor, Egypt
and Europe, in the second, led to the Crusades and orders religious chivalry, spawned the Inquisition
and the Jesuits, in short, raised Inter-Christian wars, in which the pursued by the demons, chasing to
kill for their faith in different condoms, marking the moment when
the religious idiocy climaxes in Christianity: because it has been
reduced to a minimum and diabolism has reached the maximum.

"How bad we are when we are afraid!" Says Anatole France, and indeed, the same animals home,
scared, ipso facto lose his meekness, and become even more dangerous than in the wild. The
danger, scaring the timid, makes them dangerous, with ruthless and ferocious to the humble,
when men are more gallant, aristocratic angered by fear, are also a serious danger of reciprocity,
even for women as in the Bazar de Charité, rue Jean Goujon, Paris. Theological Dangers panic engendered
religious ease panic and the inclination to frighten, exploited in the political field, produced by
the political danger of political terror in vicious circle and so came in Christian societies
reversion to the methods of companies wild.

Large catastrophes crazy shot in theaters, churches, shipwrecks, are cases of sudden and devastating
ferocity caused by the panic that comes from also probably most of the killings. The heads of
the "Mashorca" which was shaking the residents of Buenos Aires, were timid fear that were beheaded
cutthroats. In Uruguay, where the Jordanian war, a Basque brick, which in life had slaughtered
a lamb, haunted by frequent beheadings, volunteered to Cutthroat informal, and the first candidate
who had given him, naked and bound hand and foot on the ground, Chambonea so that the victim
in retaliation, he broke the ropes feet that held him, he joined dripping blood, slain by halves,
and undertaking to kicking the hangman's apprentice, rebuked him: "If you can not slay what you
get, Basque of so and so! ". Baraka, for instance, had with him the daughter
of Ungurue, chief of Phunze; Wadimoyo, a woman called Manamaka; Sangizo, his wife and sister;
but Bombay had not got one, and mourned for a girl he had set his eyes on, unfortunately for
himself letting Baraka into his confidence. This set Baraka on the qui vive to catch Bombay
tripping; for Baraka knew he could not get her without paying a good price for her, and therefore
watched his opportunity to lay a complaint against him of purloining my property, by which
scheme he would, he thought, get Bombay's place as storekeeper himself. In a sly manner Bombay
employed some of my other men to take five wires, a red blanket, and 500 strings of beads,
to his would-be father-in-law, which, by a previously-concocted arrangement, was to be her
dowry price. These men did as they were bid; but the father-in-law returned things, saying
he must have one more wire. That being also supplied, the scoundrel wanted more, and made so
much fuss about it, that Baraka became conversant with all that was going on, and told me of it.

This set the whole camp in a flame, for Bombay and Baraka were both very drunk, as well as
most of the other men, so that it was with great difficulty I could get hold of the rights
of their stories. Bombay acknowledged he had tried to get the girl, for they had been sentimentalising
together for several days, and both alike wished to be married. Baraka, he said, was allowed
to keep a wife, and his position, demanded that he should have one also; but the wires were
his own property, and not mine, for he was given them by the chiefs as a perquisite when I
paid their hongo through him. He thought it most unjust and unfair of Baraka to call him to
account in that way, but he was not surprised at it, as Baraka, from the beginning of the journey
to the present moment, had always been backbiting him, to try and usurp his position. Baraka,
at this, somewhat taken aback, said there were no such things as perquisites on a journey like
this; for whatever could be saved from the chiefs was for the common good of all, and all alike
ought to share in it--repeating words I had often expressed. Then Bombay retorted trembling
and foaming in his liquor: "I know I shall get the worst of it, for whilst Baraka's tongue
is a yard long, mine is only an inch; but I would not have spent any wires of master's to purchase
slaves with (alluding to what Baraka had done at Mihambo); nor would I, for any purpose of
making myself richer; but when it comes to a wife, that's a different thing."

In my heart I liked Bombay all the more for this confession, but thought it necessary to extol
Baraka for his quickness in finding him out, which drove Bombay nearly wild. He wished me to
degrade him, if I thought him dishonest; threw himself on the ground, and kissed my feet. I
might thrash him, turn him into a porter, or do anything else that I liked with him, as long
as I did not bring a charge of dishonesty against him. He could not explain himself with Baraka's
long tongue opposed to him, but there were many deficiencies in my wires before he took overcharge
at Bogue, which he must leave for settlement till the journey was over, and then, the whole
question having been sifted at Zanzibar, we would see who was the most honest. I then counted
all the wires over, at Bombay's request, and found them complete in numbers, without those
he had set aside from the dowry money. Still there was a doubt, for the wires might have been
cut by him without detection, as from the commencement they were of different lengths. However,
I tried to make them friends, claimed all the wires myself, and cautioned every man in the
camp again, that they were all losers when anything was misappropriated; for I brought this
property to pay our way with and whatever balance was over at the end of the journey I would
divide amongst the whole of them.

12th and 13th.--When more sober, Bombay again came to crave a thousand pardons for what he
had done, threw himself down at my feet, then at Grant's, kissed our toes, swore I was his
Ma Pap (father and mother); he had no father or mother to teach him better; he owed all his
prosperity to me; men must err sometimes; oh, if I would only forgive him,--and so forth. Then
being assured that I knew he never would have done as he had if a woman's attractions had not
led him astray, he went to his work again like a man, and consoled himself by taking Sangizo's
sister to wife on credit instead of the old love, promising to pay the needful out of his pay,
and to return her to her brother when the journey was over.

In the evening Virembo and Karambule came to receive the hongo for their chief, demanding 60
wires, 160 yards merikani, 300 strings of mzizima, and 5000 strings of white beads; but they
allowed themselves to be beaten down to 50 wires, 20 pretty cloths, 100 strings mzizima, and
4000 kutuamnazi, or cocoa-nut-leaf coloured beads, my white being all done. It was too late,
however, to count all the things out, so they came the next day and took them. They then said
we might go as soon as we had settled with the Wahinda or Wanawami (the king's children), for
Suwarora could not see us this time, as he was so engaged with his army; but he hoped to see
us and pay us more respect when we returned from Uganda, little thinking that I had sworn in
my mind never to see him, or return that way again. I said to those men, I thought he was ashamed
to see us, as he had robbed us so after inviting us into the country, else he was too superstitious,
for he ought at least to have given us a place in his palace. They both rebutted the insinuation;
and, to change the subject, commenced levying the remaining dues to the princes, which ended
by my giving thirty-four wires and six pretty cloths in a lump.

Early in the morning we were on foot again, only too thankful to have got off so cheaply. Then
men were appointed as guides and protectors, to look after us as far as the border. What an
honour! We had come into the country drawn there by a combination of pride and avarice and
now we were leaving it in hot haste under the guidance of an escort of officers, who were in
reality appointed to watch us as dangerous wizards and objects of terror. It was all the same
to us, as we now only thought of the prospect of relief before us, and laughed at what we had
gone through.

Rising out of the Uthungu valley, we walked over rolling ground, drained in the dips by miry
rush rivulets. The population was thinly scattered in small groups of grass huts, where the
scrub jungle had been cleared away. On the road we passed cairns, to which every passer-by
contributed a stone. Of the origin of the cairns I could not gain any information, though it
struck me as curious I should find them in the first country we had entered governed by the
Wahuma, as I formerly saw the same thing in the Somali country, which doubtless, in earlier
days, was governed by a branch of the Abyssinians. Arrived at our camping, we were immediately
pounced upon by a deputation of officers, who said they had been sent by Semamba, the officer
of this district. He lived ten miles from the road; but hearing of our approach, he had sent
these men to take his dues. At first I objected to pay, lest he should afterwards treat me
as Virembo had done; but I gave way in the end, and paid nine wires, two chintz and two bindera
cloths, as the guides said they would stand my security against any further molestation.

Rattling on again as merry as larks, over the same red sandstone formation, we entered a fine
forest, and trended on through it as a stiff pace until we arrived at the head of a deep valley
called Lohuati, which was so beautiful we instinctively pulled up to admire it. Deep down its
well-wooded side below us was a stream, of most inviting aspect for a trout-fisher, flowing
towards the N'yanza. Just beyond it the valley was clothed with fine trees and luxuriant vegetation
of all descriptions, amongst which was conspicuous the pretty pandana palm, and rich gardens
of plantains; whilst thistles of extraordinary size and wild indigo were the more common weeds.
The land beyond that again rolled back in high undulations, over which, in the far distance,
we could see a line of cones, red and bare on their tops, guttered down with white streaks,
looking for all the world like recent volcanoes; and in the far background, rising higher than
all, were the rich grassy hills of Karague and Kishakka.

On resuming our march, a bird, called khongota, flew across our path; seeing which, old Nasib,
beaming with joy, in his superstitious belief cried out with delight, "Ah, look at that good
omen!--now our journey will be sure to be prosperous." After fording the stream, we sat down
to rest, and were visited by all the inhabitants, who were more naked than any people we had
yet seen. All the maidens, even at the age of puberty, did not hesitate to stand boldly in
front of us--for evil thoughts were not in their minds. From this we rose over a stony hill
to the settlement of Vihembe, which, being the last on the Usui frontier, induced me to give
our guides three wires each, and four yards of bindera, which Nasib said was their proper fee.
Here Bombay's would-be, but disappointed, father-in-law sent after us to say that he required
a hongo; Suwarora had never given his sanction to our quitting his country; his hongo even
was not settled. He wished, moreover, particularly to see us; and if we did not return in a
friendly manner, an army would arrest our march immediately.

Chapter VIII. Karague

Relief from Protectors and Pillagers--The Scenery and Geology--Meeting with the Friendly King
Rumanika--His Hospitalities and Attention--His Services to the Expedition--Philosophical and
Theological Inquiries--The Royal Family of Karague--The M-Fumbiro Mountain--Navigation of "The
Little Windermere"--The New-Moon Levee--Rhinoceros and Hippopotamus Hunting--Measurement of
a Fattened Queen--Political Polygamy--Christmas--Rumours of Petherick's Expedition--Arrangements
to meet it--March to Uganda.

This was a day of relief and happiness. A load was removed from us in seeing the Wasui "protectors"
depart, with the truly cheering information that we now had nothing but wild animals to contend
with before reaching Karague. This land is "neutral," by which is meant that it is untenanted
by human beings; and we might now hope to bid adieu for a time to the scourging system of taxation
to which we had been subjected.

Gradually descending from the spur which separates the Lohugati valley from the bed of the
Lueru lo Urigi, or Lake of Urigi, the track led us first through a meadow of much pleasing
beauty, and then through a passage between the "saddle-back" domes we had seen from the heights
above Lohugati, where a new geological formation especially attracted my notice. From the green
slopes of the hills, set up at a slant, as if the central line of pressure on the dome top
had weighed on the inside plates, protruded soft slabs of argillaceous sandstone, whose laminae
presented a beef-sandwich appearance, puce or purple alternating with creamy-white. Quartz
and other igneous rocks were also scattered about, lying like superficial accumulations in
the dips at the foot of the hills, and red sandstone conglomerates clearly indicated the presence
of iron. The soil itself looked rich and red, not unlike our own fine country of Devon.

On arriving in camp we pitched under some trees, and at once were greeted by an officer sent
by Rumanika to help us out of Usui. This was Kachuchu, an old friend of Nasib's, who no sooner
saw him than, beaming with delight, he said to us, "Now, was I not right when I told you the
birds flying about on Lohugati hill were a good omen? Look here what this man says: Rumanika
has ordered him to bring you on to his palace at once, and wherever you stop a day, the village
officers are instructed to supply you with food at the king's expenses, for there are no taxes
gathered from strangers in the kingdom of Karague. Presents may be exchanged, but the name
of tax is ignored." Grant here shot a rhinoceros, which came well into play to mix with the
day's flour we had carried on from Vihembe.

Deluded yesterday by the sight of the broad waters of the Lueru lo Urigi, espied in the distance
from the top of a hill, into the belief that we were in view of the N'yanza itself, we walked
triumphantly along, thinking how well the Arabs at Kaze had described this to be a creek of
the great lake; but on arrival in camp we heard from the village officer that we had been misinformed,
and that it was a detached lake, but connected with the Victoria N'yanza by a passage in the
hills and the Kitangule river. Formerly, he said, the Urigi valley was covered with water,
extending up to Uhha, when all the low lands we had crossed from Usui had to be ferried, and
the saddle-back hills were a mere chain of islands in the water. But the country had dried
up, and the lake of Urigi became a small swamp. He further informed us, that even in the late
king Dagara's time it was a large sheet of water; but the instant he ceased to exist, the lake
shrank to what we now saw.

Our day's march had been novel and very amusing. The hilly country surrounding us, together
with the valley, brought back to recollection many happy days I had once spent with the Tartars
in the Thibetian valley of the Indus--only this was more picturesque; for though both countries
are wild, and very thinly inhabited, this was greened over with grass, and dotted here and
there on the higher slopes with thick bush of acacias, the haunts of rhinoceros, both white
and black; whilst in the flat of the valley, herds of hartebeests and fine cattle roamed about
like the kiyang and tame yak of Thibet. Then, to enhance all these pleasure, so different from
our former experiences, we were treated like guests by the chief of the place, who, obeying
the orders of his king, Rumanika, brought me presents, as soon as we arrived, of sheep, fowls,
and sweet potatoes, and was very thankful for a few yards of red blanketing as a return, without
begging for more.

The farther we went in this country the better we liked it, as the people were all kept in
good order; and the village chiefs were so civil, that we could do as we liked. After following
down the left side of the valley and entering the village, the customary presents and returns
were made. Wishing then to obtain a better view of the country, I strolled over the nearest
hills, and found the less exposed slopes well covered with trees. Small antelopes occasionally
sprang up from the grass. I shot a florikan for the pot; and as I had never before seen white
rhinoceros, killed one now; though, as no one would eat him, I felt sorry rather than otherwise
for what I had done. When I returned in the evening, small boys brought me sparrows for sale;
and then I remembered the stories I had heard from Musa Mzuri--that in the whole of Karague
the small birds were so numerous, the people, to save themselves from starvation were obliged
to grow a bitter corn which the birds disliked; and so I found it. At night, whilst observing
for latitude, I was struck by surprise to see a long noisy procession pass by where I sat,
led by some men who carried on their shoulders a woman covered up in a blackened skin. On inquiry,
however, I heard she was being taken to the hut of her espoused, where, "bundling fashion,"
she would be put in bed; but it was only with virgins they took so much trouble.

A strange but characteristic story now reached my ears. Masudi, the merchant who took up Insangez,
had been trying his best to deter Rumanika from allowing us to enter his country, by saying
we were addicted to sorcery; and had it not been for Insangez's remonstrances, who said we
were sent up by Musa, our fate would have been doubtful. Rumanika, it appeared, as I always
had heard, considered old Musa his saviour, for having eight years before quelled a rebellion,
when his younger brother, Rogero, aspired to the throne; whilst Musa's honour and honesty were
quite unimpeachable. But more of this hereafter.

Khonze, the next place, lying in the bending concave of this swamp lake, and facing Hangiro,
was commanded by a fine elderly man called Muzegi, who was chief officer during Dagara's time.
He told me with the greatest possible gravity, that he remembered well the time when a boat
could have gone from this to Vigura; as also when fish and crocodiles came up from the Kitangule;
but the old king no sooner died than the waters dried up; which showed as plainly as words
could tell, that the king had designed it, to make men remember him with sorrow in all future
ages. Our presents after this having been exchanged, the good old man, at my desire, explained
the position of all the surrounding countries, in his own peculiar manner, by laying a long
stick on the ground pointing due north and south, to which he attached shorter ones pointing
to the centre of each distant country. He thus assisted me in the protractions of the map,
to the countries which lie east and west of the route.

Shortly after starting this morning, we were summoned by the last officer on the Urigi to take
breakfast with him, as he could not allow us to pass by without paying his respects to the
king's guests. He was a man of most affable manners, and loth we should part company without
one night's entertainment at least; but as it was a matter of necessity, he gave us provisions
to eat on the way, adding, at the same time, he was sorry he could not give more, as a famine
was then oppressing the land. We parted with reiterated compliments on both sides; and shortly
after, diving into the old bed of the Urigi, were constantly amused with the variety of game
which met our view. On several occasions the rhinoceros were so numerous and impudent as to
contest the right of the road with us, and the greatest sport was occasioned by our bold Wanguana
going at them in parties of threes and fours, when, taking good care of themselves at considerable
distances, they fired their carbines all together, and whilst the rhinoceros ran one way, they
ran the other. Whilst we were pitching our tents after sunset by some pools on the plain, Dr
K'yengo arrived with the hongo of brass and copper wires sent by Suwarora for the great king
Mtesa, in lieu of his daughter who died; so next morning we all marched together on to Uthenga.

Rising out of the bed of the Urigi, we passed over a low spur of beef-sandwich clay sandstones,
and descended into the close, rich valley of Uthenga, bound in by steep hills hanging over
us more than a thousand feet high, as prettily clothed as the mountains of Scotland; whilst
in the valley there were not only magnificent trees of extraordinary height, but also a surprising
amount of the richest cultivation, amongst which the banana may be said to prevail. Notwithstanding
this apparent richness in the land, the Wanyambo, living in their small squalid huts, seem
poor. The tobacco they smoke is imported from the coffee-growing country of Uhaiya. After arrival
in the village, who should we see but the Uganda officer, Irungu! The scoundrel, instead of
going on to Uganda, as he had promised to do, conveying my present to Mtesa, had stopped here
plundering the Wanyambo, and getting drunk on their pombe, called, in their language, marwa--a
delicious kind of wine made from the banana. He, or course, begged for more beads; but, not
able to trick me again, set his drummers and fifers at work, in hopes that he would get over
our feelings in that way.

Henceforth, as we marched, Irungu's drummers and fifers kept us alive on the way. This we heard
was a privilege that Uganda Wakungu enjoyed both at home and abroad, although in all other
countries the sound of the drum is considered a notice of war, unless where it happens to accompany
a dance or festival. Leaving the valley of Uthenga, we rose over the spur of N'yamwara, where
we found we had attained the delightful altitude of 5000 odd feet. Oh, how we enjoyed it! every
one feeling so happy at the prospect of meeting so soon the good king Rumanika. Tripping down
the greensward, we now worked our way to the Rozoka valley, and pitched our tents in the village.

Kachuchu here told us he had orders to precede us, and prepare Rumanika for our coming, as
his king wished to know what place we would prefer to live at--the Arab depot at kufro, on
the direct line to Uganda, in his palace with himself, or outside his enclosures. 

In this critical time in life when naive curiosity, eager and indiscriminate makes its first
delivery of the facts and explanations about things in the world, and that all kinds of superstitions
can penetrate the mind and take root, home, environment and school have a first class role.

And
in those circumstances, the plan of the religious school is to meet
the natural curiosity the child on the facts and things in the universe
around him, with the explanations the wise old graduate courses lengthy
fasting and solitary meditation in the wilderness, in caves, in the
ruins or in the cloisters, put in the mouth of the gods, then, to
give them an authority they had, to require an absolute acquiescence,
only possible way to make them effective in their time, and the object
of the positive school is to meet the same curiosity with positive
knowledge acquired by modern scholars the investigation of nature
with modern methods, and without requiring obedience to them or acquiescence
of any kind, that the progress of human intelligence has been superseded,
since the truth does not bring as a supposed mandate from the dead,
but its agreement with reality, his strength of conviction of the
understanding.

DISCLOSURE AND EVOLUTION

The Jewish concept that informs the two wills, and according to which the progress of humanity decay
is a process of content just because the man was perfect from the hands the operator and deteriorated
in perpetuity by the original sin, the most diametrically opposed the modern concept of the
upward trend of the human species was a common concept to all ancient peoples, the natural result
of pessimism resulting from powerlessness man to the evils of the earth and the omnipotence of natural
laws, unconquered by human intelligence.

In all, the conscious or subconscious ideal was to stay or approach
to state or condition in which the man was in contact with the wisdom
of their respective maximum Confucius or Solomon, or in communication
with the divinity itself by the respective prophets or apostles; all
lived with the thought in the past and relying on the help of the
ancestors posthumously; everyone understood that the happy times,
the heroic, holy times were behind and not before humanity today.

Studies of philosophers and theologians - Utopians Retrospective - education in schools, preaching
in the pulpits, everything was oriented on the long-awaited return to the glorious past, or
holy, or joyful. Wisdom was a formula verbal output of the past and the mystery.

And so, the gift of the human capital: the possibility of improved indefinitely, was always more
or less offset by any religious or philosophical doctrines understood give new life, because
"all theory is gray, and the tree of life is evergreen," as Goethe
said, because the human mind is like water that is stagnant and moving
corrupts purified.

Although the sky has fallen in crystal drops and oxygen, of immobility the pond or muddy swamp,
inhabited by tenants harmful, microbes, Diatomaceous guzarapos larvae. So the myriad of mogigatos,
sexton, laymen, monks, nuns, hermits, abbots, canons, priests and bishops, have occurred by spontaneous
generation of pests in Christian thought, stalled since the third century and therefore tainted inevitable
by the creeds, dogmas, bulls, short and fees.

Is that evil of all religions is in its very essence, they can not rejuvenate steadily as the tree of
life, replacing with green leaves and dry leaves new shoots the old guard, when they can not
change and walk with the progress of the spirit human.

They are a breath of life and action, a blaze of lights and dazzle infinite one time, as did the
Mohammedanism in historical times, then fall into a new plan of mental darkness, spiritual
and moral sterility. Philosophy, literature and Greek art still living, were reassigned to our
intellectual flow. In Egyptian religion, Greek and Roman that prevailed for so many centuries, there
is nothing, nothing, if not sorry fetishism incorporated into Greek and Latin churches, of which
not be anything left.

In Europe and Christian America, as in China, as in Muslim Africa, the past spiritual took precedence
at all about this, the word "master" of the prophets and the apostles was the last resort of
the human spirit.

As the Cid, who won battles after death, St. John Chrysostom, St. Augustine and St. Thomas
have won by many centuries in all disputes. In law, medicine, natural sciences, "which thought
the old sages "made law to modern scholars. The most backward, ie the most versed in ancient lore,
were the most qualified to teach the past to present and that title was the governess Church
universal.

Only when in the nineteenth century paleontology, philology, archeology, etc., Etc., Put uncovered
the huge mistake of those concepts, showing that the more human beings old had been less strong
and less healthy, less wise and more barbaric, the theory arose the
upward and began to conceive the perfection of man as a fact of this
and future, and the human spirit was able to transfer its guidance
and service objectives of the dead to serve the living and the evils
that were the evils which are the world from nothing into the world
of life from stagnation to progress from quiescence to action, the
absolutism to freedom, tradition, evolution, "moving the center of
gravity intellectual and emotional God to humanity ", the huge event
is taking place today, and will be the beginning of a transformation
larger and more universal happy that all that preceded it in the course
of time.

At the moment we are in the transition period, with religious school, aided by intellectual
inertia which leads to 18 centuries of obscurantism in credulity and ignorance chronic educates
children to the truths and virtues of the past and the liberal school The educated to the
possibilities of this in the way forward, with sectarian school school closes and reopens positive
human curiosity to know the hunger charity and make up that gives us, on average, a wonderful week.

Between us, the progress of liberalism is quite satisfactory, considering that anchored to the
shining modern liberty from the medieval intelligentsia miserable, so jealously preserved by
the monks in Spain and its colonies, that we have not yet a century of independence and that its first
half was, fatally, the extension of colonial terrorism and obscurantism, for the failure of the
early liberal initiative Rivadavia, and outlawed the picture by closing the schools at the time
of Rosas, after which they were reopened under the thumb of the priests - recipients in all ages
of savagery, that our public education is only about secular from 1884; that up to seventy-odd
inmates of the recent national schools used to having to get away, still jumping back walls to escape
the obligatory confession at Easter, that mankind does not produce but an educator in every
century, as Emerson said, and has just started to not miss Sarmiento
in senior management instruction public that our civil marriage law
and statistics yesterday showed, and in our large capital two thirds
of marriages without the intervention of the priest, that almost all
our men were cool mature understanding when they were green and had
not still widespread, with railroads and the press, modern ideas and
feelings, each broad day in the love of truth and humanity, prompting
well-tempered souls to work in this world of the living to leave his
departure better than they found it arrival, the reverse of that miserable
feeling of religious believers in magic that leads us to give and
bequeath to the churches for the good of his soul alone.

THE LAST AURORA

The nineteenth century is the starting point of a new benefit was more fraught for men that was
opened with the Sermon on the Mount, is the point in time that men
more highly civilized start to stop asking God to make good and wise
and strong to strive to be themselves, to ignore the imaginary worlds
to take advantage of the real world, leaving the fold of the revelation
to conquer nature, changing its focus from past to future, fatalism
to determinism, prayer action, the game discouraged pessimism to optimism,
loose the wings of spirit to explore all walks without a passport
of ecclesiastical authority; emancipated of that silly pity for the
dead that holds believers crying stupidly on remediable misery of
this by the irremediable misfortunes of the remote past, distressed
for the suffering of Jesus, the martyrs and all the dead and perfectly
insensible the suffering of the living enslaving others to exploit
it instead of appropriating the forces of nature to free the man's
arms, to pierce the mountains, sail seas, river channel, bridge the
gap and penetrate the core of things to discover its laws, to isolate
the microbes, serums and invent and discover anesthetics pedagogy
and psychology, asepsis and antisepsis, enabling them to reach their
own physical and mental depths, to remove the infections, tumors,
calculations and cysts, bad moods and passions, in absolutely certain
whether or not God, who has done more good and less evil, which has
been most useful to his and strangers, the less you have suffered
the wrath of hate and love you enjoyed most and friendship, in short,
which "has been a great soul in this world, you are more likely to
be a great soul in any other world.

"

In the nineteenth century, in fact, has fought the decisive battle between new and old ideals,
which are beaten and in retreat. Human rights are being evicted to the priest and the king,
the nobility and the clergy have lost their privileges secular, the dignified solidarity it replaces
the humiliating charity, there has been the emancipation of the serfs and the liberation of
slaves, and behind them the socialist workers, not the Catholic worker who insists on remaining
the priest, the worker has come to be a person with the right living, thinking and fighting for
economic emancipation for the improvement of their condition a more equitable social participation
in the fruits of their labor. And finally, women daughter and slave spiritual confessor - the secular
Catholic home intruder - father supplementary religious marriage, regaining his personality, is
incorporated, it also the emancipation movement of the human race subjugated by the Church of God.

Meanwhile,
we are happy that we are currently witnessing the twilight of what was and the dawn of what will
be. Blessed are we who can think and say about the future and the past that we come to mind,
without fear that torment us, we burn or we banish the ministers of God offended and angry about
it, as they did with our grandparents, almost without fear of reproach us, slander us and persecute
us, as they did with our parents, the official representatives of the God of goodness.

Those who have every reason to be complaining, sorry and sad we are not certainly the self-consciousness
we have fantastic terrors and reach of science, which is the effective
working of miracles, Edison system, Röntgen, Marconi, etc.., ETC.
but manufacturers imaginary terrors and miracles, the human sacrifice
of the truth to divine truth, the omnipotent yesterday struck down
the wrath and vengeance of the Almighty, mental lepers expelled today
as the nation's most advanced in Europe, unable to defense, because
that formidable weapon with which ruled the world until the eighteenth
century - the excommunication - is reduced by the progress of human
reason to the modest role carbine Ambrose.

PAST AND FUTURE

If a crazy anti-humanitarian to lie down now to find a way of taxing people with the maximum
disabilities, expenses, work and penalties for the most useless of the goals imaginable probably could
not find anything as effective as the revealed religions "before Science and Civilization, "as
A. France.

For this double set of simultaneous governments, commonwealths and superimposed on the town the
temporary needs of this world, the spiritual needs of others, our ancestors climbed the hill of life
with two enormous octopus on their backs, prevented them develop and grow, robbing even the most wretched
amenguadas fruit of their energy, in compensation for the work they were taken to curtail thinking
- which is a form of motion, such as electricity, magnetism or light, - kill the spirit of initiative
and tutearlos after they had crippled the capacity to act and to behave themselves.

Unintelligible memorize the catechism - the librejo more full of absurdities and nonsense after
the Qur'an - obliged to attend all events and religious ceremonies, day and night, not thinking
without permission of the priest, fasting, confession, communion, penance, grieve and mourn
in the days and hours desired, to obey the church campaign Cowbell mules to the sponsor, pay tithes
and first fruits priests outside of taxes and extraordinary accidental miracles for each of the
events of life, from birth until after death, funerals and "ends years, "all under pain of excommunication,
persecution, confiscation of property, and banishment or death.

Buy the prince the right to live under their whims and brutality, and work under the regulations
more stupidly wasteful, at best cases - the free man - were certainly social, economic and moral were
impossible capita prosperity and progress of the nation.

Only by decreasing the Church's spiritual government and temporary government princes, and the
extent to which managed the influence of philosophy and science resurgent, by successive explosions
of the doubly oppressed and exploited, has been increasing human capacity for human life.

And as in the Protestant church government first declined for secession with the papacy and
the removal of miracles, confession, communion, indulgences and St. Peter's pence, was where I first
grew them by faith in the self-help I replaced the belief in the
miraculous rescue of the saints, the ability of the individual and
correlative prosperity of nations.

And as in Spain and Italy was more burdensome tyranny Church, were also burdened them more impoverished
individuals and community by the Church that had made the scriptures not a prison but a beacon
of human intelligence, a prison with no air and no light, which they put to Protestants free
inquiry, doors and windows.

When the Romans came to Egypt, could not resist, because the priests
absorbed in this country a third of national wealth for their useless
masquerades.

Turn the exactions of the Roman treasury, hundredfold by the insatiable greed of the collectors,
had been destroyed in situ force of the empire, long before the invasions of barbarians, and
the holdings of priestly greed, reinforced by the Holy Office and Jesuits, and admirably supported
by the imbecility of kings and ministers fans who expelled Jews and Moors to the Catholic unanimously,
making the capita servant of the Church and 3 | 5 fertile land dead hand goods, so completely annihilated
the human energy of the empire where the sun never set, which without pushing the outside,
he fell from spontaneous decay inherent weakness, as Muslim peoples are falling this.

And of course that the cure is greatest where larger evil, as happened
in the French Revolution, if the Latin countries had an advantage
over whites in getting rid all of that expensive drug and government
of conscience by the Vatican, as France has begun, would recover in
the future, the ground lost in the past.

Because you can anticipate, as now, the universal human capacity glut problems of human life, that
will come when they have disappeared altogether, with priestly class who exploited the problems
of the future life, still consumed today so much of human power completely
useless and expensive ceremonies to toil over the void to find the
most diverse and disparate illusory solutions the unsolvable.



Returning home to the tents as the evening sky was illumined with the red glare of the sun,
my attention was attracted by observing in the distance some bold sky-scraping cones situated
in the country Ruanda, which at once brought back to recollection the ill-defined story I had
heard from the Arabs of a wonderful hill always covered with clouds, on which snow or hail
was constantly falling. This was a valuable discovery, for I found these hills to be the great
turn-point of the Central African watershed. Without loss of time I set to work, and, gathering
all the travellers I could in the country, protracted, from their descriptions, all the distance
topographical features set down in the map, as far north as 3° of north latitude, as far east
as 36°, and as far west as 26° of east longitude; only afterwards slightly corrected, as I
was better able to connect and clear up some trifling but doubtful points.

Indeed, I was not only surprised at the amount of information about distant places I was enabled
to get here from these men, but also at the correctness of their vast and varied knowledge,
as I afterwards tested it by observation and the statements of others. I rely so far on the
geographical information I thus received, that I would advise no one to doubt the accuracy
of these protractions until he has been on the spot to test them by actual inspection. About
the size only of the minor lakes do I feel doubtful, more especially the Little Luta Nzige,
which on the former journey I heard was a salt lake, because salt was found on its shores and
in one of its islands. Now, without going into any lengthy details, and giving Rumanika due
credit for everything--for had he not ordered his men to give me every information that lay
in their power, they would not have done so--I will merely say for the present that, whilst
they conceived the Victoria N'yanza would take a whole month for a canoe to cross it, they
thought the Little Luta Nzige might be crossed in a week. The Mfumbiro cones in Ruanda, which
I believe reach 10,000 feet, are said to be the highest of the "Mountains of the Moon." At
their base are both salt and copper mines, as well as hot springs. There are also hot springs
in Mpororo, and one in Karague near where Rogero lived.

30th.--The important business of announcing our approach to Uganda was completed by Rumanika
appointing Kachuchu to go to king Mtesa as quickly as possible, to say we were coming to visit
him. He was told that we were very great men, who only travelled to see great kings and great
countries; and, as such, Rumanika trusted we should be received with courteous respect, and
allowed to roam all over the country wherever we liked, he holding himself responsible for
our actions for the time being. In the end, however, we were to be restored to him, as he considered
himself our father, and therefore must see that no accident befell us.

To put the royal message in proper shape, I was now requested to send some trifle by way of
a letter or visiting card; but, on taking out a Colt's revolving rifle for the purpose, Rumanika
advised me not to send it, as Mtesa might take fright, and, considering it a charm of evil
quality, reject us as bad magicians, and close his gates on us. Three bits of cotton cloth
were then selected as the best thing for the purpose; and, relying implicitly on the advice
of Rumanika, who declared his only object was to further our views, I arranged accordingly,
and off went Kachuchu.

To keep my friend in good-humour, and show him how well the English can appreciate a kindness,
I presented him with a hammer, a sailor's knife, a Rodger's three-bladed penknife, a gilt letter-slip
with paper and envelopes, some gilt pens, an ivory holder, and a variety of other small articles.
Of each of these he asked the use, and then in high glee put it into the big block-tin box,
in which he kept his other curiosities, and which I think he felt more proud of than any other
possession. After this, on adjourning to his baraza, Ungurue the Pig, who had floored my march
in Sorombo, and Makinga, our persecutor in Usui, came in to report that the Watuta had been
fighting in Usui, and taken six bomas, upon which Rumanika asked me what I thought of it, and
if I knew where the Watuta came from. I said I was not surprised to hear Usui had attracted
the Watuta's cupidity, for every one knew of the plundering propensities of the inhabitants,
and as they became rich by their robberies, they must in turn expect to be robbed. Where the
Watuta came from, nobody could tell; they were dressed something like the Zulu Kaffirs of the
South, but appeared to be now gradually migrating from the regions of N'yazza. To this Dr K'yengo,
who was now living with Rumanika as his head magician, added that, whilst he was living in
Utambara, the Watuta invested his boma six months; and finally, when all their cows and stores
were exhausted, they killed all the inhabitants but himself, and he only escaped by the power
of the charms which he carried about him. These were so powerful, that although he lay on the
ground, and the Watuta struck at him with their spears, not one could penetrate his body.

In the evening after this, as the king wished to see all my scientific instruments, we walked
down to the camp; and as he did not beg for anything, I gave him some gold and mother-of-pearl
shirt studs to swell up his trinket-box. The same evening I made up my mind, if possible, to
purchase a stock of beads from the Arabs, and sent Baraka off to Kufro, to see what kind of
a bargain he could make with them; for, whilst I trembled to think what those "blood-suckers"
would have the impudence to demand when they found me at their mercy, I felt that the beads
must be bought, or the expedition would certainly come to grief.

1st and 2d.--Two days after this the merchants came in a body to see me, and said their worst
beads would stand me 80 dollars per frasala, as they would realise that value in ivory on arrival
at the coast. Of course no business was done, for the thing was preposterous by all calculation,
being close on 2500 per cent. above Zanzibar valuation. I was "game" to give 50 dollars, but
as they would not take this, I thought of dealing with Rumanika instead. I then gave Nnanaji,
who had been constantly throwing out hints that I ought to give him a gun as he was a great
sportsman, a lappet of beadwork to keep his tongue quiet, and he in return sent me a bullock
and sundry pots of pombe, which, in addition to the daily allowance sent by Rumanika, made
all my people drunk, and so affected Baraka that one of the women--also drunk--having given
him some sharp abuse, he beat her in so violent a manner that the whole drunken camp set upon
him, and turned the place into a pandemonium. A row amongst the negroes means a general rising
of arms, legs, and voices; all are in a state of the greatest excitement; and each individual
thinks he is doing the best to mend matters, but is actually doing his best to create confusion.

By dint of perseverance, I now succeeded in having Baraka separated from the crowd and dragged
before me for justice. I found that the woman, who fully understood the jealous hatred which
existed in Baraka's heart against Bombay, flirted with both of them; and, pretending to show
a preference for Bombay, set Baraka against her, when from high words they came to blows, and
set the place in a blaze. It was useless to remonstrate--Baraka insisted he would beat the
woman if she abused him, no matter whether I thought it cowardly or not; he did not come with
me expecting to be bullied in this way--the whole fault lay with Bombay--I did not do him justice--when
he proved Bombay a thief at Usui, I did not turn him off, but now, instead, I showed the preference
to Bombay by always taking him when I went to Rumanika. It was useless to argue with such a
passionate man, so I told him to go away and cool himself before morning.

When he was gone, Bombay said there was not one man in the camp, besides his own set, who wished
to go on to Egypt--for they had constant arguments amongst themselves about it; and whilst
Bombay always said he would follow me wherever I led, Baraka and those who held by him abused
him and his set for having tricked them away from Zanzibar, under the false hopes that the
road was quite safe. Bombay said his arguments were, that Bana knew better than anybody else
what he was about, and he would follow him, trusting to luck, as God was the disposer of all
things, and men could die but once. Whilst Baraka's arguments all rested the other way;--that
no one could tell what was ahead of him--Bana had sold himself to luck and the devil--but though
he did not care for his own safety, he ought not to sacrifice the lives of others--Bombay and
his lot were fools for their pains in trusting to him.

3d.--At daybreak Rumanika sent us word he was off to Moga-Namarinzi, a spur of a hill beyond
"the Little Windermere," overlooking the Ingezi Kagera, or river which separates Kishakka from
Karague, to show me how the Kiangule river was fed by small lakes and marshes, in accordance
with my expressed wish to have a better comprehension of the drainage system of the Mountains
of the Moon. He hoped we would follow him, not by the land route he intended to take, but in
canoes which he had ordered at the ferry below. Starting off shortly afterwards, I made for
the lake, and found the canoes all ready, but so small that, besides two paddlers, only two
men could sit down in each. After pushing through the tall reeds with which the end of the
lake is covered, we emerged in the clear open, and skirted the further side of the water until
a small strait was gained, which led us into another lake, drained at the northern end with
a vast swampy plain, covered entirely with tall rushes, excepting only in a few places where
bald patches expose the surface of the water, or where the main streams of the Ingezi and Luchoro
valleys cut a clear drain for themselves.

The whole scenery was most beautiful. Green and fresh, the slopes of the hills were covered
with grass, with small clumps of soft cloudy-looking acacias growing at a few feet only above
the water, and above them, facing over the hills, fine detached trees, and here and there the
gigantic medicinal aloe. Arrived near the end of the Moga-Namirinzi hill in the second lake,
the paddlers splashed into shore, where a large concourse of people, headed by Nnanaji, were
drawn up to receive me. I landed with all the dignity of a prince, when the royal band struck
up a march, and we all moved on to Rumanika's frontier palace, talking away in a very complimentary
manner, not unlike the very polite and flowery fashion of educated Orientals.

Rumanika we found sitting dressed in a wrapper made of an nzoe antelope's skin, smiling blandly
as we approached him. In the warmest manner possible he pressed me to sit by his side, asked
how I had enjoyed myself, what I thought of his country, and if I did not feel hungry; when
a pic-nic dinner was spread, and we all set to at cooked plantains and pombe, ending with a
pipe of his best tobacco. Bit by bit Rumanika became more interested in geography, and seemed
highly ambitious of gaining a world-wide reputation through the medium of my pen. At his invitation
we now crossed over the spur to the Ingezi Kagera side, when, to surprise me, the canoes I
had come up the lake in appeared before us. They had gone out of the lake at its northern end,
paddled into, and then up the Kagera to where we stood, showing, by actual navigation, the
connection of these highland lakes with the rivers which drain the various spurs of the Mountains
of the Moon. The Kagera was deep and dark, of itself a very fine stream, and, considering it
was only one--and that, too, a minor one--of the various affluents which drain the mountain
valleys into the Victoria N'yanza through the medium of the Kitangule river, I saw at once
there must be water sufficient to make the Kitangule a very powerful tributary to the lake.

On leaving this interesting place, with the widespread information of all the surrounding countries
I had gained, my mind was so impressed with the topographical features of all this part of
Africa, that in my heart I resolved I would make Rumanika as happy as he had made me, and asked
K'yengo his doctor, of all things I possessed what the king would like best. To my surprise
I then learnt that Rumanika had set his heart on the revolving rifle I had brought for Mtesa--the
one, in fact, which he had prevented my sending on to Uganda in the hands of Kachuchu, and
he would have begged me for it before had his high-minded dignity, and the principle he had
established of never begging for anything, not interfered. I then said he should certainly
have it; for as strongly as I had withheld from giving anything to those begging scoundrels
who wished to rob me of all I possessed in the lower countries, so strongly now did I feel
inclined to be generous with this exceptional man Rumanika. It is good to gain heaven,
Beat other way but not to the forgiveness of those who insult you. God is so merciful that opens
a thousand ways to reach it. Then, get another and do not follow the meekness. Should be respected
and feared. Should they know who you are. What I counsel is to be very careful with what you
do, because if you punish Dona Ines without caution justice as you would paper a penny of spices,
and even you may be jailed or send to prison.

- Do not pretend to be scared.

4th.--Rumanika returned in the morning, walking up the hill, followed by a long train of his
officers, and a party of men carrying on their shoulders his state carriage, which consisted
of a large open basket laid on the top of two very long poles. After entering his palace, I
immediately called on him to thank him for the great treat he had given me, and presented him,
as an earnest of what I thought, with the Colt's revolving rifle and a fair allowance of ammunition.
His delight knew no bounds on becoming the proprietor of such an extraordinary weapon, and
induced him to dwell on his advantages over his brother Rogero, whose antipathy to him was
ever preying on his mind. He urged me again to devise some plan for overcoming him; and, becoming
more and more confidential, favoured me with the following narrative, by way of evidence how
the spirits were inclined to show all the world that he was the rightful successor to the throne:--When
Dagara died, and he, Nnanaji, and Rogero, were the only three sons left in line of succession
to the crown, a small mystic drum of diminutive size was placed before them by the officers
of state. It was only feather weight in reality, but, being loaded with charms, became so heavy
to those who were not entitled to the crown, that no one could lift it but the one person whom
the spirits were inclined towards as the rightful successor. Now, of all the three brothers,
he, Rumanika, alone could raise it from the ground; and whilst his brothers laboured hard,
in vain attempting to move it, he with his little finger held it up without any exertion.

This little disclosure in the history of Karague led us on to further particulars of Dagara's
death and burial, when it transpired that the old king's body, after the fashion of his predecessors,
was sewn up in a cow-skin, and placed in a boat floating on the lake, where it remained for
three days, until decomposition set in and maggots were engendered, of which three were taken
into the palace and given in charge to the heir-elect; but instead of remaining as they were,
one worm was transformed into a lion, another into a leopard, and the third into a stick. 

Flowers abounded in Villalegre, thanks to the power of the commons, whose miraculous properties
and we praise and thanks also to other flowing springs, which flow from rocks immediate foot
of the mountain, and several wells and not a few wells of fresh water, with which watered gardens,
planters and flowerbeds.

From between the bars of the gate was in the best houses were the flowery patios, some of which
the orange trees and acacias lend welcome shade. Plants vines climbed
the walls and curtains were thick on the ground floor windows.

In the center of the courtyard, or cooling the air in a fountain falling burnished red cup jasper,
or Great Pyramid rose pots, forming compact mass of flowers and vegetables.

Dragonflies

and butterflies fluttering around restless, and wasps and bees buzzed looking for honey.

The territory or termination of Villalegre bordering the countryside, where all lands are bread
carry or uncultivated wasteland without gardens, and groves, and vineyards. If something turns
green for those it's just melon fields in the hollows. Everything else is in that season straw
already sown and fallow, and stubble, which burn like tinder and are usually burned for fertilize
the soil. The plants that soar around and give more shade are the pitas. Are more woody and
arborescent thistles and sunflowers. So in households cooked with some animal product, that
not only heat, but perfume, saving on air one or two miles away,
so that people can smell long before to them, and even descry on the
horizon their steeples.

Sparrows, goldfinches, swallows and a hundred other species of birds painted and cheerful go
to the countryside at dawn to catch seeds, grasshoppers and other insects that feed; but all
nesting Villalegre term, and return to him after his excursions to
take shelter in their preserves and dark, drinking in their crystal
streams and ditches, and to rejoice that oasis with chirps, trills
and gurgles.
Now, Rumanika, by his own confession, had gone through this ordeal with marked success; so
I asked him if he found the atmosphere cold when so far up aloft, and as he said he did so,
laughing at the quaintness of the question, I told him I saw he had learnt a good practical
lesson on the structure of the universe, which I wished he would explain to me. In a state
of perplexity, K'yengo and the rest, on seeing me laughing, thought something was wrong; so,
turning about, they thought again, and said, "No, it must have been hot, because the higher
one ascended the nearer he got to the sun."

This led on to one argument after another, on geology, geography, and all the natural sciences,
and ended by Rumanika showing me an iron much the shape and size of a carrot. This he said
was found by one of his villagers whilst tilling the ground, buried some way down below the
surface; but dig as he would, he could not remove it, and therefore called some men to his
help. Still the whole of them united could not lift the iron, which induced them, considering
there must be some magic in it, to inform the king. "Now," says Rumanika, "I no sooner went
there and saw the iron, and brought it here as you see it. What can such a sign mean?" "Of
course that you are the rightful king," said his flatterers. I do not know when to return. Being myself I dare not open to you the
door and let him inside. People whisper, and against us, and whisper a thousand times if I do
such a thing. Go away then, and forgive me for not receiving. I, however, no sooner came into possession, and Rogero began to contend
with me, than the thunderbolt vanished. How would you account for this?" The flatterers said,
"It is as clear as possible; God gave the thunderbolt to Dagaro as a sign he was pleased with
him and his rule; but when he found two brothers contending, he withdrew it to show their conduct
was wicked."

5th.--Rumanika in the morning sent me a young male nzoe (water-boc) [13] which his canoe-men
had caught in the high rushes at the head of the lake, by the king's order, to please me; for
I had heard this peculiar animal described in such strange ways at Kaze, both by Musa and the
Arabs, I was desirous of having a look at one. 

The abbey was very rich and famous, rich valleys of the Fertiliser in outline the monks had
cleared, cultivated with care and collecting them abundant harvests; and famous, it was about
home education, where many young men from all over France and Spain Christian who remained came
to be instructed in arms and letters. Among the monks had wise philosophers and theologians
and not a few who had fought with glory in his youth before withdraw from the world.
 The only food
it would eat were the tops of the tall papyrus rushes; but though it ate and drank freely,
and lay down very quietly, it always charged with ferocity any person who went near it.

In the afternoon Rumanika invited both Grant and myself to witness his New Moon Levee, a ceremony
which takes place every month with a view of ascertaining how many of his subjects are loyal.
On entering his palace enclosure, the first thing we saw was a blaue boc's horn stuffed full
of magic powder, with very imposing effect, by K'yengo, and stuck in the ground, with its mouth
pointing in the direction of Rogero. In the second court, we found thirty-five drums ranged
on the ground, with as many drummers standing behind them, and a knot of young princes and
officers of high dignity waiting to escort us into the third enclosure, where, in his principal
hut, we found Rumanika squatting on the ground, half-concealed by the portal, but showing his
smiling face to welcome us in. How
could I imagine, to come back this afternoon from my village to village, which extends no more
than a quarter of a league, which was to run into you and your partner, ambushed among Hondón
willow Brook, and you had to bring me by force to this place? I did not suspect that would hijackers
in the day, and walked very safe. Convinced, man, the gain you had to do and have done. Do not
try now to make more profit. Greed bursts the bag.


This second performance over, from want of breath only, district officers, one by one, came
advancing on tip-toe, then pausing, contorting and quivering their bodies, advancing again
with a springing gait and outspread arms, which they moved as if they wished to force them
out of their joints, in all of which actions they held drum-sticks or twigs in their hands,
swore with a maniacal voice an oath of their loyalty and devotion to their king, backed by
the expression of a hope that he would cut off their heads if they ever turned from his enemies,
and then, kneeling before him, they held out their sticks that he might touch them. With a
constant reiteration of these scenes--the saluting at one time, the music at another--interrupted
only once by a number of girls dancing something like a good rough Highland fling whilst the
little band played, the day's ceremonies ended. 

The exercise of mental cells of the cerebral cortex in successive generations, produces a subjective
increase in the number and an expansion of the mantle that contains, by of folds or convolutions,
usually transmitted in the germ of possibilities offspring, and an expansion target buildings,
tools, methods, ideas, laws and customs, which constitute the environment and starting point
same or different, in which they develop individuals and subsequent generations, is that human
intelligence is exportable and largely accessible to the ignorant and the poor in spirit, being,
as well as collective ownership of the ideas the main palliative individual ownership of things.
 After listening to it attentively, he asked what thing in creation
I considered the greatest of all things in the world; for whilst a man at most could only live
one hundred years, a tree lived many; but the earth ought to be biggest, for it never died.

I then told him again I wished one of his sons would accompany me to England, that he might
learn the history of Moses, wherein he would find that men had souls which live for ever, but
that the earth would come to an end in the fullness of time. Tratábanle with disdain, made him a thousand taunts and
even insults directed at her, that he was suffering with resignation
evangelical.

This is why he called plaque.

At that time the envy of the other
novices had reached its height. His stoic nature and his Christian resignation and conformity to the will of the Almighty
usually retained unchanged the tranquility of his soul. Doña Inés also saw no nothing alarming
in the event, and herself and her friends and father Don Andrés Anselmo explained it quite
naturally. And said quietly assumed that your father, but was healthy and good and had more look
of that old boy, had begun to age, surrender and weaken the heart, perhaps fault him how much
he worked and studied. This was that, according to Dona Ines, his father, long since, was frequent
but slight indications extravagance and premature senility. Such was the cause was the disappearance
Dona Ines Don Paco.


