I jotted down the figures that I remembered, but I must have had some of the signs down wrong,
for, try as I would, I could make nothing out of them. As a matter of fact the solution was
so simple that in the end I only stumbled on it by accident.

Bryce had a bad habit of locking himself in his room for hours at a time, and it occurred to
me that such a course wasn't in his own interest any more than mine, so I tackled him about
it at the first opportunity.

"Here you are," I said, "paying me for being a mixture of Swiss Guard and watch-dog, but for
all the looking-after you get I might as well be miles away. I don't want to be hanging on
to your skirts every ten minutes or so, but doesn't it strike you as a reasonable man that
you're inviting trouble by locking yourself in so securely?"

"I do that so I won't be disturbed," he urged.

"That's a reason that cuts both ways," I said. "Suppose somebody happened to be in the room
when you arrived. Don't you see that he could do all he wanted to do without being disturbed
either."

"But you'd hear any uncommon noise," Bryce objected.

"Maybe I would and then maybe I wouldn't. I'm not infallible, you know, and anyway it's quite
possible that any visitor you had wouldn't make a row at all. And while I'm on it, wouldn't
it be just as well to give me a sketch of the plot? I'm working in the dark as it is, but,
if I had some idea of what's at the back of all this, I might be able to look after you better."

"I'm afraid I can't do that," he said slowly, and for the first time since we had met he eyed
me with suspicion. There was doubt in his glance, the sort of doubt that a man does not care
to see in the eyes of a friend. I saw that I had made a radical mistake in even hinting that
I wished to know his secret, and I hastened to make what amends I could.

"I'm sorry," I said, "if you look at it in that way. I was only doing it for your own good.
You're paying what's an enormous sum to me, and I'm trying to justify your expenditure. If
I know your enemies and all about them, I can certainly plan level and, maybe, occasionally
outguess them. That's the only thing I had in mind when I spoke, and if I gave you any other
impression I'm sorry I said what I did."

He moved his shoulders in a kind of half-shrug. It was at once a gesture of relief and of dismissal,
so without more ado I said, "If there's nothing further you want, I'll make off now. If you
want me any time I'll be pottering around the house somewhere."

"Well, there is something I'd like you to do, Jim," he said. "I want half-a-dozen parish maps.
Here's the list of them"--he handed me a piece of paper with a few names scribbled on the back--"and
here's the money. Go down to the Lands Department and they'll fix you up. Mind that they are
large scale maps, the largest they've got. You'd better take the car, and don't be any longer
than you can help."

"It's a twenty minutes' run at the outside," I said. "I won't waste any time."

He nodded quite cheerfully to me and went into his room. I heard the key grate in the lock
as I walked down the passage and I remember saying to myself, "That habit's going to get him
into trouble yet."

I reached the office in record time. They had some trouble in finding the maps I wanted--most
of them were of parishes situated around the foot of the Grampians--but in the end they produced
some that I fancied would suit my man. My twenty minutes' limit had almost expired and, as
it is a matter of pride with me to be punctual, I let the car out a little. That, I suppose,
was my undoing, for just as I crossed over the busiest street a motor-lorry swerved out and
nearly collided with me. I did some very neat wheel-work, but my new course took me right across
to the gutter, and before I had quite realised what had happened I had speared my tyre with
a jagged piece of glass. The tyre popped off with a report like that of a small revolver, and
the next second I was bumping on the frame. I pulled up as quickly as I could, but the mischief
was done and the tyre was just one great rip from end to end. Luckily I carried a spare wheel,
but I am an unhandy man at the merely mechanical part of the work, and I took twice as long
over it as a professional would have. By the time I was ready to start again my twenty minutes
had lengthened into an hour, and somehow the knowledge of that worried me.

I packed my tools anyhow, hopped back into the car and threw over my clutch. The car started
with a little jerk that I didn't quite relish, and on looking over the side I saw that the
new wheel was wobbling, not very much indeed, but just enough to show me that I had bungled
my work. I immediately cut down my speed and proceeded for the rest of the journey at something
closely approaching a snail's pace.

"Now," I said to myself, "if this was in a novel I'd say that the lorry cut across my path
deliberately. But as this is in real life and the lorry belongs to a firm of respectable grocers
it can't be anything else but just my own darned bad luck."

I dismissed the incident at that and turned my attention to my driving. I had no intention
of mixing myself up in another such accident if I could possibly avoid it, and now that I had
definitely taken service with Bryce I felt I owed it to him to exercise all reasonable care.
After my first few spasmodic attempts at resistance I had succumbed rather quickly to his enticing
offer. After all, I thought, I wouldn't be putting myself in any greater danger than I had
been in for the past four years. I had faced sudden death in many shapes and forms during my
sojourn in the strange wild lands about the Line, so much so that, once I had taken into account
the money Bryce was giving me, the present adventure rather degenerated into a pleasant little
game of hide-and-seek.

I was still turning this over in that portion of my mind which wasn't occupied with the sheerly
mechanical side of my work when I reached the house. More from force of habit than from any
other cause I cast my eyes along the road, much as if it had been a forest trail that held
secrets only a woodsman could read. Plainly marked in the dust of the roadway were the tracks
of a vehicle that I instinctively knew to be a cab. It had veered right in towards the kerb,
and a moment's study convinced me that it had stopped at Bryce's house. Now that meant that
somebody had arrived during my absence, and, as Bryce had said nothing to me about expecting
a visitor, I decided that the sooner I entered the house and investigated the better for the
safety of all concerned. I drove the car into the garage in record time and darted into the
house as if the devil were at my heels. There wasn't a sound to be heard; even the eternal
clatter of the typewriter had ceased. With a caution born of experience I tip-toed up the passage,
all my senses instinctively on the alert. The door of Bryce's room was still locked and everything,
to all outward seeming, was just as I had left it. I don't know what I had expected to find
in the passage, but the very apparent quietness of the place sobered me considerably, and I
realised abruptly on what a slender foundation I had based my fears. If anything had happened
during my absence it was almost certain that I would have found some trace of it in the hall,
a rug disarranged, or a mat kicked away from the door. All the odds were on Bryce working quietly
behind the locked door. Yet of all the foolish things in the world for me to think of the idea
that entered my mind just then was that something that concerned me very intimately was being
worked out in the room across the passage.

I made one step forward and then I stopped abruptly. Some one else than Bryce was in the room.
Out of the silence came a voice, a woman's voice. It was smooth and well-modulated, and there
was the faintest touch of music in it. In some curious way it touched a stray chord in my memory.
I knew at once that I had heard it before, but how or where I could no more say than I could
fly. Perhaps that was because its full notes were muffled by the door that intervened.

"I'd do anything," the woman said in the quietest tones imaginable, "anything but that. You
don't understand. If you knew all the circumstances, if you knew just how and why we parted
you wouldn't ask me. I'm sorry for it all now, more sorry than you could believe, but you can't
expect me to take up things just where they left off--as if nothing had happened."

"Bryce's got a little romance tucked away up his sleeve," I thought. "This sort of complicates
matters. Wonder who the lady is?"

"My dear girl," came the reply in Bryce's tones, softer and more persuasive than I had ever
heard them, "I know more perhaps than you think. I'm doing this out of the fullness of my knowledge
in the hope that when I'm gone...."

"Don't!" the woman interrupted sharply. "Don't talk like that!"

"It's one of the things we've got to face," Bryce said gently. "I won't live for ever anyway,
and you know as well as I do just what chance I run of having a period put to me ... any time
now." The last three words were spoken very slowly and distinctly, as if Bryce wished them
to sink into the mind of his companion. "You're the only person in the world that I care a
hang about," he continued with a note of indescribable pathos in his voice, "and I'm doing
all this for you ... and him."

"But I tell you," the girl said with a little flash of anger, "I tell you I won't have anything
to do with him. If you bring him to the house I'll cut him dead."

"And put yourself doubly in the wrong and make it all the harder for everybody," Bryce told her.

There was a dogged note in the girl's voice as she replied. "I know I was wrong, but I just
can't do what you want. I can't say more than that."

"I'm sorry you look at things that way," Bryce said. "I had hoped...." I did not catch the
nature of his hope, for his voice dropped an octave or so and his sentence ended in whispers.

"Jimmy Carstairs," I said to myself, "you've been eavesdropping and you know it. You mustn't
be caught doing those kind of things. Get out of the way as fast as you can," and at that I
twisted round on my heel and went back down the hall. I hadn't any desire to be caught listening
to conversations that were obviously not intended for me and that anyway weren't of the least
interest. So you can be sure that when I did return up the hall I walked fairly heavily and
coughed discreetly as soon as I was within hearing distance of Bryce's room.

The key turned in the lock of a sudden and the door was flung wide open. The girl stood in
her own light so that the shadows masked her face, but the sun fell full on mine and my features
must have been clearly visible to her.

"You!" she said, with a little catch in her voice.

"Shut the door, please," I said, in the most matter-of-fact tones I could muster. "Shut the
door and come out here."

I knew her now. God! Could I ever forget her? In a flash my mind flew back through four years--or
was it five?--to that evening when she had caused my little world to rock and tremble, and
then to fall in pieces at my feet. I had loved her then--I thought I loved her more than anything
or anyone in this world--but a dying father's wish had come between us. The poor old Dad had
made a life study of the Islands--how monumental a study it was let his three volumes of Solomon
Island Ethnology bear witness--yet he died before he had quite completed his notes. Though
he had said nothing to me I knew the wish that lay nearest his heart, and I made his dying
hour almost the happiest of his life by promising to carry on his work.

I remember the night I came out to tell her. The sky was streaked with dead gold and cerise
and warm-tinted clouds trailed across the heavens like the ends of a scarf streaming from the
neck of a hurrying woman. All the world was gay that evening and I whistled as I went. She
was waiting at the gate as always she had waited for me. She greeted me with a smile and some
bright little remark that I forgot practically the instant it was uttered.

"I want to talk to you," I said; "I want to talk seriously."

She smiled up at me, a trusting little smile as I thought. She had no idea what was coming,
but she always gave me my head in the things that do not matter much.

"What is it, Jim?" she asked.

"It's this," I said, and then I told what I had promised.

"But that," she protested, "means burying yourself in New Guinea and the Solomons for four
whole years."

"It does," I said. "There is no other way."

I had not been looking at her face--there had been no need, for I was quite convinced that
she would see things in a proper light--but now I turned on her. To my surprise there was just
the least little touch of annoyance in her face.

"You don't quite relish the idea," I said.

"It's a very foolish idea," she said quite frankly. "I don't know what you could have been
thinking of."

"I was thinking of my father," I told her. "I was making his last hour happy, and he died in
the knowledge that I would carry his work on to the conclusion he had planned."

"Are you going to see it through?" The abruptness of the question took me aback.

"Of course," I said. "What else could I do?"

"Four years!" she said. "What is to become of me?"

"The time will soon go by," I answered, "and then I'll come back to you and everything will
be right."

"You seem to think of everyone but me," she said hotly. "You promised so that your father would
die easy, and that's the end of it. If you are going to be bound by such a thing as that you're
nothing more than an impractical idealist."

"I passed my word and a Carstairs never breaks a promise."

"You mean that, Jim? You mean that you are going away to ... carry out that absurd promise?"

"It's not absurd," I declared.

"I think it is," she said wilfully. "If you go, you need never come back."

"I am going," I said steadily. "As an honorable man there is no other course open to me. I'm
sorry that you look at it this way, but I can't do anything else."

"At last I know how much you think of me," she said with that little touch of anger with which
a woman always defends the indefensible. "You never did care for me."

"I do, I do," I protested. "Can't you see it?"

"I can't see anything," she said stubbornly, "except that you'd do this rather than listen
to me. It shows all you think of me. Oh, I hate you! I never, never want to see you again!"

"Is that your last word?" I demanded.

"Absolutely my last," she answered firmly.

"Well," I said, "here's my last too. I'm going to carry out my promise, and if a man had spoken
to me about it as you have spoken to me to-night I would have pulped his face."

"I really believe you would," she said exasperatingly. "You see, Jim, you were always something
of a savage. That, I suppose, is why you are so anxious to go to the Islands ... where the
savages are."

That was the very last word she had said to me, for the next moment the gate was banged behind
her and shut me out of her life. I was hurt, badly hurt in my self-esteem, but my rising anger,
burning hot within me, kept me from feeling as bad as I might have felt. In two months' time
I landed at Tulagi on Florida Island, and for the next four years or so the civilised world
knew me not. I reached finality, but I spent my fortune and came back to Australia to all intents
and purposes a pauper. Four years...! Here she was facing me at last--just as if nothing had
ever come between us.

"Yes, it's me," I said ungrammatically. "Why?"

She raised her hand to her throat with a queer little gesture. "I didn't quite expect to see
you ... yet," she said.

"It's the unexpected that happens," I remarked. "I've come back at last, though in slightly
different circumstances."

"I know, Jim. I've heard."

"He told you," I suggested, and nodded towards the door she had just closed.

"How do you know that?" she asked quickly.

"It is my business to know things," I told her. "I'm a professional caretaker of secrets now."

She looked at me blankly and I saw that he had not told her everything. It behoved me to play
the game warily until I was sure of my ground.

"What are you doing here, Moira?" I asked her point-blank.

"That's a question I could ask you," she countered. "But I am here, not from any desire to
meet you--I didn't know you were here--but because he sent for me."

"And why should he send for you?" I persisted.

There was just the faintest flicker of a smile moving about her lips now; she had turned a
little and the light was playing on her face.

"For just the simplest reason in the world. He wanted me."

"Why should he want you?" I demanded.

She looked at me a moment as if astonished that I should ask such a question. But there was
that in my eyes which told her that my ignorance was anything but assumed.

"You really mean to say you don't know?" she asked incredulously.

"If I did know I wouldn't question you about it," I said shortly. "What is the reason?"

"Well, you see," she answered lightly, with just a slight uplift of her eyebrows--an old theatrical
trick that I used to admire in the days gone by--"he happens to be my uncle."

"That puts another complexion on matters," I said half to myself. But her quick ear caught
the drift of my remark and she was down on me like the wolf on the fold.

"You're in with him, are you?" she questioned, with that devouring flame I knew so well flaring
up in her golden-brown eyes. "You're in with him ... in this?"

In a way I wasn't. As a matter-of-fact I suspected from her last words that she knew more about
everything than I did, but I was perfectly sure that she wouldn't believe me if I denied it,
so I said instead, "Yes, I am."

"I might have known it," she said with a little shake of her head. I didn't quite follow her
logic, but I judged it best to let it pass. One would think from the way she spoke that there
was something reprehensible in being mixed up in anything conducted by her venerable relative.
I wondered why.

"Yes, you might have known it," I said, falling in with her own humor. "I have a habit of doing
things I shouldn't."

I knew she understood my veiled allusion, for I saw her bite her lip and again the lambent
flame leaped up in her eyes. But it died as suddenly as it had come, and in another instant
the old tantalising smile was playing about the corners of her mouth. In the smoky interminable
depths of the Solomon Island jungle I had crushed that smile out of my life, for ever I had
thought. I had deliberately erased it from my memory, and at night beside the smudge fire,
when my eyes closed for an instant and that beautiful imperious face peeped at me from out
of the mazes of recollection, I would open my eyes and stared fixedly at the misshapen headhunters
who were my sole companions in that wilderness. "These," I would say, "are the kindred of us
both. Their women smile as she smiles, and the men respond to it as I used to respond." And
with that thought in my head I would fall asleep and not dream.

"Jim," she said with abrupt irrelevance, "you've changed. You usen't to be like that before.
You're different somehow ... cynical, I think."

"That's more than likely," I agreed. "I'm learning to hit back. And now if you'll excuse me,"
I ran on before she had time to answer, "I'll just drop in with this parcel."

Then without more ado I turned on my heel and knocked at Bryce's door.

CHAPTER IV.

THE THIEF IN THE NIGHT.

"I've got those maps you wanted," I remarked as Bryce opened the door, "and I hope I haven't
kept you waiting too long."

"You haven't," he said with a smile. "As a matter-of-fact I've been otherwise occupied. I've
had a visitor."

"A visitor?" I said guardedly, though what on earth there was to guard against was more than
I could have said just then. Some cross-grained streak in my nature made me both cantankerous
and suspicious, and while the mood was on me I would have contradicted or queried the word
of an archangel.

"Yes," Bryce replied. "The lady you met in the passage. I gather that she knows you."

"We knew each other years ago," I said shortly. In a flash the meaning of the conversation
I had overheard burst on me. I began to perceive that her presence in the house was due in
part at least to me. Well, if he fancied he was going to patch up our old love affair he had
undertaken a bigger job than he thought. For two pins I would have told him, had he uttered
another word, that there was one matter in which I would brook no man's interference, and that
even the ties that bound him to my father were not strong enough to allow him to settle what
was nobody's affair but mine. But, with even greater tact than I believed he possessed, he
switched the conversation on to quite another subject and talked to me for the better part
of half-an-hour about the maps I had brought.

He had the formation of the country and its industries at his fingers' ends, and he spoke like
a man who had gained his information at first-hand. I listened attentively, for I guessed in
some queer fashion of my own that the maps and that foolish cryptogram, the shooting on the
beach and the piece of driftwood were all somehow connected. But either I must have missed
some very obvious point or else he picked his words so carefully that he misled me.

I used my eyes for all they were worth, which wasn't much. The typewriter stood on the table
in its old position, and the table itself was littered with sheets of typed figures. "More
timber measurements," I said to myself. Somehow the sight of those sheets troubled me. They
were innocent-looking enough in all conscience, and I couldn't for the life of me understand
why they should have this peculiar effect on me. I felt as if a cold gust of wind, the icy
breath of Death himself, had passed and touched me in the passing. I flatter myself that I
have pretty strong nerves--the Lord knows they've been tested often enough--but there was something
in the atmosphere of that room, something in the sight of those littered sheets of paper, that
sent a cold shiver through me, that made me want to rush from the place into the golden sunshine
out of doors. It was a presentiment, but one that could not be localised. It did not appear
to be one that could be shared either, for Bryce still talked on in his own quaint way, apparently
unaffected by the strange influence which so troubled me.

At last he rose and proceeded to gather up the disordered papers on the table. I rose too,
and with a careless "So long," was making for the door when he stopped me with a question.

"I suppose," he asked, "that you haven't seen anything lately of our inquisitive friends?"

"The Roman sentry and the gentleman with the hardware and the smashed wrist?" I answered his
question with one of mine.

He smiled at my description and the laughter-lines about his mouth creased into a myriad wrinkles.
"You have them exactly," he remarked.

"No, I haven't seen them," I said. "They seem to have disappeared into nothingness."

Curiously enough the news, instead of pleasing, seemed to disappoint him. "They evidently mean
business," he said in a semi-undertone. It seemed almost as if he was speaking his thoughts
out aloud.

He glanced up at me with brooding eyes and brows drawn close together. "We'll hear from them
presently," he murmured, "and then the end won't be far away."

"Cheer up," I said hastily, "They've got a long way to go yet, and I don't think they'll find
me altogether pleasant to deal with."

"If you knew all about it," he said, and then he hesitated. For just the fraction of a second
he trembled on the point of divulging everything, and then his old cautiousness re-asserted
itself and the impulse died away.

"That'll be all," he said briskly. "Just keep your eyes and your ears open, Jim, and, as you
say, we'll beat them yet."

But I rather fancied from his tone that he meant that last sentence the other way about.

       *       *       *       *       *

I came awake instantly. The noise that had awakened me still echoed in my ears and, though
I could not put a name to it, I could have sworn that it came from the room where Bryce did
his typing. It was a very faint noise, not the kind to bring a heavy sleeper instantly awake.
But my nerves work like a hair-trigger, and the almost noiseless pad of a cat across the room
at night is sufficient to rouse me. What I had heard had been so faint that a less matter-of-fact
man might have imagined that he had dreamt it. But I knew better. I don't dream.

The obvious thing was to slip out of bed at once and investigate. I didn't. I knew a trick
worth two of that. I sat up and listened. It might be a wandering tabby that had blundered
into a piece of furniture; perhaps the window had creaked; it might be any one of half a hundred
things. If there was an intruder in the house I felt certain that presently I would hear something
more. No man, no matter how careful he be, can move with a complete absence of sound.

Five minutes passed, ten, a quarter of an hour. Nothing happened. And then, just as I was beginning
to despair, I heard it again. It was a little plainer this time. Somebody had scraped a chair
across the floor and it had creaked slightly.

That was more than enough for me. I slipped out of bed, but I did not hurry. Many a man with
the prize almost within his grasp has lost it simply because he has rushed at it with his eyes
shut. I didn't dawdle, but I said to myself, "The more haste the less speed, Jim," and accordingly
I took my time. Of course if I had fancied that there was one chance in a hundred of the man
getting away, I would have been on the spot like a shot, but I guessed from what I had heard
that the visitor was in no hurry, and certainly hadn't the faintest suspicion that anyone in
the house was aware of his presence. I got my clothes on somehow and took a grip of my long
Colt by the barrel end. I didn't want to shoot unless there was no other way out of it, and
anyway a revolver-shot kicks up such an infernal racket inside a house and brings on the scene
quite a number of people who'd be better at home and in bed.

I slunk down the passage like a shadow, walking as if I were treading on eggs. Very softly
I tried the door. To my disgust it was locked. Now the only time Bryce ever locked it was when
he was at work inside, so I knew that my man was still within reach. As if to make assurance
doubly sure I caught, as I stepped back, the faint gleam of a pencil of light from under the
doorway.

The position as I summed it up was this:--The intruder had entered through the door and had
quietly locked it behind him. That would have been the first noise I had heard. Then he had
hunted about for whatever he wanted and, once it had been found, he had drawn the chair up
to the table and settled down to a prolonged study of the matter. That would explain the two
sounds. Now as my man had come in through the door he was almost certain to go out the same
way and, in the interests of peace and quiet, the proper course to take was to sit down and
wait until he decided to come out.

I can't say how long I waited there. It seemed like hours, but of course at the outside it
could not have been many minutes. I would dearly have liked to smoke, but I rather fancied
that the other man's nose would be sure to scent me out. Also a scrape of a match in a still
house at the dead of night sounds like a bomb-explosion. So I just squatted down on my heels
and cursed my man under my breath. I was in deadly fear most of the time that he would make
a noise of some kind and bring the other inhabitants down about my ears. He was my meat, and
I meant to eat him myself.

At length the pencil of light went out. Somebody moved stealthily across the room and the key
turned softly in the lock. I balanced the gun in my hand and got ready to swing. It was pitch-dark
in the hall and I could not see an inch in front of me, but I had my fingers right up against
the jamb of the door and I could feel it opening. The man was breathing with a barely perceptible
wheeze and, if I had not been listening for something of the kind, I might have missed it altogether.
But it was quite loud enough for me to position the fellow, and the next instant I flopped
out of the darkness on to him. He gave a surprised little gasp, a sort of sizzling like the
air escaping out of a punctured tyre, and went down on the mat underneath me. I had taken him
so completely off his guard that there was no need for me to use my gun. I got one hand on
his throat in the most approved style of the garrotte and just pressed. He wriggled a little
at first, but I kept up the same even pressure, and presently he went limp. I knew then that
he was harmless for the next ten minutes, so I released my hold, slipped my useless Colt into
my pocket, and made to stand up. But at that precise moment the electric light in the hall
went on, and a silvery voice said, "Hands up, please!"

In the astonishment of the moment I shot my hands heavenwards and turned round to view the
new arrival. It was just as I thought. Moira had blundered into my little surprise party, and
she was doing her level best to annex all the honors for herself. She was standing with one
hand on the light switch and the other held Bryce's automatic. Her face was very pale, and
the hand that held the revolver wasn't quite as steady as I could have wished. She blinked
a little at me--her eyes seemed blinded by the sudden radiance--and I don't think she recognised
me for the moment, so much do one's ordinary clothes make the man.

It was clearly up to me to disillusion her and persuade her either to put down the revolver
or hold it in a way less calculated to alarm the peaceful public.

"You'd better put down that infernal thing, Moira," I said calmly, "or you'll be doing someone
damage. The mere sight of you makes me nervous, Diana."

There was a studied insult in the last word, but I think somehow she must have missed it in
the excitement of the moment, for she lowered her gun and ran towards me.

"Oh, it's you!" she cried surprisedly.

"It's me," I said dourly, and I dropped my hands into a more convenient position. "In fact
it's so much me that I'd be obliged if you'd keep quiet for a while and help me look after
this gentleman on the floor. I want to examine him, and I don't think I'll be able to do it
in comfort if you wake the rest of the family."

"Who is he?" she asked, showing by the subdued note of her voice that she had taken my warning
to heart.

"That's more than I can say," I answered. "I discovered him in the room there, and when he
came out I promptly sat on him."

"But what did he want?"

"If one can judge anything from his present attitude, he came to study the pattern of the carpet,
Moira."

"Be serious, Jim, please."

"I couldn't if I tried," I said, rising to my feet. "It's too much like hard work. But let's
look at the captive, Diana."

This time the shot went home, and in a way I was glad. I had four years' arrears to make up
yet. It was not a very manly thing to do, I know--it certainly wasn't at all gentlemanly--but
it gave me a deuce of a lot of satisfaction, and that's about all I can say in defence. She
looked up at me with both hurt and contempt in her eyes, but I was far too engrossed in the
business in hand to give her more than passing notice. When I came to think it over in calmer
moments I realised that, despite all that had happened, the girl was just as much in love with
me as ever she had been.

The fellow was young, at the most he could not have been more than twenty-four or five, and
I saw instantly that he was the man I had called the Roman sentry--the chap who had been spying
on the house the day Bryce had driven me home from the Heads. The life wasn't crushed out of
him by any means; even as I examined him he stirred a little and his eyes opened. They were
nice black eyes, the sort that brim over with humor, yet way at the back of them I caught a
glimpse of something else. It was a queer mixture of anger and determination, and I saw just
sufficient of it to warn me to take no unnecessary risks. Save for that first spasmodic movement
he lay perfectly still, those black eyes of his laughing up at me and challenging. Somehow
they filled me with a curious sense of unrest, a feeling as if everything that made life safe
and secure was slipping away from me. I did not speak a word, however, but gave him back look
for look, striving with my eyes to beat down the challenge I read in his. They said as plainly
as so many words, "I'm the better man, and I'll beat you yet. Try and see if I don't."

"What are you doing here?" I demanded at length, seeing that one of us must speak, and he seemed
the less likely.

"If I told you I was a somnambulist you wouldn't believe me, would you?" he replied.

"I wouldn't," I said tersely.

"I'm not, anyway," he continued, with those infernally self-possessed eyes daring me ... daring
me what?

"You've got to explain what you were doing in that room," I threatened. "The sooner you tell
me the better it'll be for you."

"It's no use talking like that, my friend," he said. "You won't get a word more out of me than
I wish, and while I think of it you'd better call in the police at once and have done with it."

It was the first time that the idea of the police had occurred to me, and, now I came to think
of it, it wasn't too acceptable. Without knowing much about it, I surmised that the less Bryce
had to do with the police the better he'd be pleased, that is if I could base anything on the
way he had behaved that morning on the beach. As it was Moira seemed to have much the same
idea as myself, or perhaps she spoke from superior knowledge.

"Don't call the police in, Jim," she said in a quick whisper. "You mustn't do that. It'd be
better to let him go."

I shook my head. "I don't want to let him go," I said, "but if you don't want to make an example
of him, I don't see what else there is for it. I'll have a word with him first, at any rate,
and see what I can make out of him."

"Be careful, Jim," she whispered, all the strain and anger occasioned by my ill-timed insult
disappearing in her anxiety for my welfare.

I ignored her admonition, more because I could think of no suitable reply than for any other
reason, and addressed myself to the captive.

"Get up," I said. "You and I are going to have a little heart-to-heart talk."

He made no effort to rise, so I leaned over and hauled him up by the collar. By the feel of
him he was some forty pounds lighter than I, and I made a mental note of that in case we had
a scrimmage on the way. Weight counts a good deal in a rough-and-tumble. I got a good neck-hold
on him, and then I turned to Moira. "You'd better get back to bed and forget," I said. "I'll
deal with this smart Alec here."

I did not wait to see if she took my advice, but I prodded my captive with my free hand. "Jog
along, Eliza," I said. "Straight down the hall, and don't try any monkey tricks."

He went quietly enough; if I had had my wits about me I would have had my suspicions aroused
by that same fact. I was flushed with victory, and, what was even more pleasant, I was acting
to an impressionable audience. I was sure that Moira could not fail to appreciate the neatness
with which I had conducted the whole affair, and, though I kept telling myself that I did not
care a hang for her, I hadn't the faintest objection to showing off before her. On the contrary.
That, in part at least, was the cause of my undoing.

The hall ended in a big French window that opened out on to the back verandah. It was very
seldom used, indeed I had never seen it opened, but there it was with glass all the way to
the floor. When I marched my prisoner down the hall I had some vague idea of taking him out
on to the verandah and inducing him to tell me what he had come for. But the man had other
plans maturing, and when we were just about six or seven feet away from the window he gave
a little twist and a wriggle and slipped out of my hands as if he had been an eel. Then, before
I had quite recovered sufficiently to make a grab at the empty air, he hurled himself against
the window. It was one of those foolhardy things that succeed just because of the sheer, daring
recklessness of the man who carries them through. He swept through the glass with a splintering
crash that must have been audible for half-a-block away, and then, while the falling pieces
still tinkled on the floor, he placed his hand on the verandah rail and vaulted to the ground.
I drew my revolver at once--I had been pulling it out of my pocket even as I ran down the hall--and
took a flying shot at him. But in the hurry of the moment I missed, and I padded out on to
the verandah through the splintered window just in time to see him scaling the back fence with
the practised ease of the family tabby.

I did not attempt to follow him. I knew the uselessness of such a proceeding. Just for the
fraction of a second his hurrying silhouette had shown on the top of the fence, and then it
had melted into the surrounding shadows of the dawn with a silence and celerity which, more
than anything else, told me how difficult it would be to trace him.

I turned on my heel, only to find that the lights were blazing up in practically every room,
and Moira, Bryce and the servants were gathered in a huddled, indecisive group just inside
the window. Most of them looked startled. Bryce had been a little shaken, but his self-possession
was rapidly returning. Moira, indeed, was the only one who faced me with anything like calmness
in her face.

"You'd better all get back to bed," I said, seeing that someone had to take the initiative.
"It's nothing very much, nothing to worry you at any rate."

"Yes, you'd better go back," Bryce said, seconding my remarks. "There's nothing doing."

The servants moved away one by one, leaving the three of us together. For quite a minute Bryce
eyed the revolver that I still held in my hand, then his glance travelled to the shattered
window, and, completing the circle, came to rest on me again.

"Well?" he queried, with intense interest in his voice. I knew what that monosyllable meant.
It was a request for a detailed account of the events of that night. Seeing that there was
nothing to be gained by withholding anything, I plunged into the tale and related everything
just as it had happened.

"So he got away from you?" he remarked when I had finished.

"He did," I said emphatically.

"That's about the best thing he could have done," Bryce ran on. "I don't know what we could
have done with him if we had kept him."

"'He who fights and runs away will live to fight another day,'" I reminded him.

"That other day is a matter for the future," he answered. "We'd better see what he took though.
Come on."

He turned on his heel and led the way to his study just as the first rays of the rising sun
crept up over the distant hills.

CHAPTER V.

CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.

The room was much as we had left it the evening before. The typed papers had disappeared, but
a sheet which I recognised as the one I had picked up from the kitchen floor the day of my
arrival lay on the table in full view. Beside it was the clean blotting pad that I had never
yet seen used. Bryce took no notice of the sheet of figures, but lifted the pad up, and, drawing
a magnifying glass from his pocket, ran his eyes over the rough white surface. Moira and I
watched him with unfeigned interest. At last he looked up.

"Just as I thought," he remarked. "Have a look yourself, Jim." He handed both glass and pad
to me. I studied the latter for some seconds before I quite dropped to what he meant. Gradually
I made out figures impressed on the rough surface. Our midnight visitor had made a copy of
that single sheet, had made it hurriedly in pencil, and the impression had gone through on
to the receptive softness of the blotting paper. My scrutiny over, I handed the materials to Moira.

"You understand?" Bryce queried, with little laughter-wrinkles about his eyes.

"I do," I said admiringly. "I don't know what the man was after, but he didn't get it. He got
a fake instead."

Bryce nodded. "He's up a gum-tree instead of under one," he said enigmatically.

I made no answer to that, chiefly because it struck me that it was the sort of remark that
meant a good deal more than appeared on the surface. I tucked it away in my memory, quite confident
that sooner or later the march of events would make it clear to me. As a matter of fact, if
I hadn't taken so much notice of that simple sentence, this story would never have been written,
for the key to everything was contained in that casual remark.

"Nothing else has been disturbed," Bryce announced, and included the whole room in one comprehensive
gesture. "I'm going back to bed for a couple of hours. You young people can do just what you like."

He hustled us out of the room, shut the door carefully behind us, and went off to his room.
Moira made no attempt to follow his example, but stood in the passage with her deep golden-brown
eyes fixed on me. There was a look in them that I could not quite fathom; it whirled me back
through five years of sorrow and stress, brought me back to the days when----. No, I wasn't
going to think about it at all. It didn't bring me back to anything; it brought nothing back
to me. Yet I could not help remarking that her eyes held solicitude for me and something that
was more than that.

"Aren't you going back to rest?" I asked, and was surprised to note that there was both interest
and defiance in my voice.

"I want to talk to you," she said, answering my question by inference. "I want to talk seriously
to you."

So it was coming at last. She intended putting Bryce's advice into execution. Perhaps she thought
it was merely a matter of telling me that she was sorry for what had occurred, and then everything
would begin again just where it had left off. If she thought so she was radically mistaken.
My love had been rejected and I had been wounded in my pride. Through four long years of repression
the knowledge had rankled in my mind till now the very sight of her standing there and beseeching
me with her eyes was more than I could bear. I would not have been human had I not felt the
old wound pricking me again, and I certainly would not have been a Carstairs had the mere sight
of her apparent contrition moved me to forgive her on the spot. I was quite willing to be friendly,
I told myself, but by nothing short of a miracle could we regain the old footing. The worst
of it was that something moved me to take her in my arms then and there and kiss away the tears
that were very near her eyes.

"I don't know what to say to you, Jim," she said tentatively.

"There's no need to say anything, Moira." I tried to speak as kindly as possible, but somehow
I think I failed. "I happened to overhear you and your uncle yesterday, and I know just what
you mean. But, Moira, I don't see how things can ever be the same again. It isn't as if it
were something I could forget. It isn't. It goes right down to the fundamentals. If our love
wouldn't stand the strain I put on it, it wasn't worth having. I hate to have to speak to you
like this, but, when all's said and done, it's just as well to be frank first as last."

She nodded with tight-closed lips. I saw that she was trying her hardest to keep control of
herself, and for a moment it was touch and go with me. I very seldom set my mind to anything
that I don't carry through, and in this instance I had a very clear and definite plan outlined
in my mind. So I just set my teeth and carried it off as if nothing really mattered very much.

"You heard us yesterday then?" she said at length. She spoke so slowly that she almost drawled
her words.

I nodded.

"That's what you were doing then when I came out of the room?"

"Exactly," I said. I fancied it would only make matters worse if I explained everything in detail.

"I was wrong, Jim, and I apologise," she said. There was a little gleam of flame in her eyes
that made me hang on her words. "I was wrong," she repeated. "I said yesterday that you had
changed, but I don't think you have. You're just the same old Jim, a bit of a savage and just
as primitive as ever."

"Thank you, Moira," I said. "I didn't expect it from you, but now I know what to look for."

"It is war then?" she said, with a little sparkle in her eyes.

"War it is," I answered; "as the Spaniards say, 'Guerra al cuchillo.'"

"Please translate," she requested. "I do not speak Spanish."

"War to the knife," I said briskly.

She half turned, then spoke to me over her shoulder. "I had hoped that we would be allies,"
she said softly, and was gone before I could ask her why.

As was only to be expected, things were very quiet during the next few days. Bryce went about
his own affairs more openly than hitherto. With the passing of our midnight visitor all fear
of attack seemed to have disappeared. He did not say as much to me, but in many little ways
he showed that he was much easier in his mind. I found that I had next to nothing to do. He
did not go out of his way now to find something to keep me occupied. As a matter of fact, I
saw very little of him and practically nothing at all of Moira.

I spent most of my time thinking. I went over everything that had happened from the moment
I sat down on the beach right down to the visit of that interesting and entertaining gentleman
who had made his exit from the house in so unorthodox a manner. There was logic running right
through the piece; every little incident seemed to dovetail into the others, yet, because I
did not have the key, I could not read the riddle. Why did the man on the beach fire at Bryce?
I could not say. Then just for amusement's sake I got a piece of paper and a pencil and dotted
down the items that wanted explaining. They ran somehow like this:--

1. Why was Bryce shot at?

2. Why was he being watched?

3. What was the meaning of those figures I had seen?

4. Why was Bryce so anxious to avoid publicity?

5. Why did everybody seem satisfied when the burglar got away?

6. What was the burglar after, and why was he apparently satisfied even when he got the wrong
figures?

7. What did the piece of driftwood have to do with it, and what connection was there between
the wood and the typed figures?

And, lastly, what was it all about, anyhow?

Some of the items taken singly were quite susceptible of explanation, but I could not put forward
any solution that covered them in toto. So eventually I gave it up, deciding that it wasn't
my affair, and the less I worried myself about what didn't concern me, the better.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tragedy, coming as it did like a bolt out of a clear sky, so upset everything that I really
cannot say whether it was a week or ten days later that it happened. But I do remember, with
that accuracy of detail that a man sometimes retains even when he is doubtful of essentials,
the various events of that evening.

Immediately after tea Bryce rose from the table with the expressed intention of going to his
study. I recall that he remarked to Moira as he passed her that everything was going along
swimmingly, and that if he had no further word during the next couple of days he would consider
that it was quite safe to try his luck. I didn't understand what he meant, though he seemed
to be referring in a general way to the late burglary, if burglary it could be called. Moira
was quite aware of the drift of his remarks, for she asked him wouldn't it be better to let
the week elapse before he did anything.

"We've waited too long," he said. "We should have got to work long before. Too much time has
been wasted already." Then he turned to me and said casually, "Drop in and see me later on,
Jim. I'll be working till about ten."

I told him that I'd be along very shortly, and then I went hunting for a book to read. I found
one at length, and I got so interested in it that I did not notice time passing. I was brought
back to reality by a quick step in the passage, and I turned my head to view the newcomer.
It was only Moira on her way to the study. She went by me with her head in the air, as if I
did not exist. I recall taking out my watch and noting that it was just a quarter-past-nine,
and high time I went in and saw Bryce. However, as Moira had got in ahead of me, and her business
was probably of a private nature, I decided to wait until I heard her come out again.

I turned back to my book, but had scarcely found my place when I caught the tinkle of breaking
glass on woodwork, and practically at the same instant there was a sharp "pop," as if someone
had drawn a cork from a bottle of some gaseous liquid. On the heels of that had come the single
whip-like crack of a revolver. I swung to my feet in an instant, and the book dropped unheeded
to the floor. During the last few days I had got out of the habit of carrying my revolver,
but for all that I made straight for the study, and without the slightest ceremony turned the
handle. The door was not locked; it opened at my touch. I doubt if it was even latched.

If my long years of training in the hard school of experience have brought me nothing else,
they at least taught me to keep my head in just such an emergency as this present one. It was
well for me that I had my nerves under complete control, for the sight that faced me was one
that I could not have pictured in even my wildest flights of fancy. Bryce was slumped forward
in his chair, his big head sunk on his chest. All the color had fled from his face, leaving
it ashen pale. The kind eyes that used to sparkle so were glazed now in death, and squinted
up at me through the tangled mat of his eyebrows. The whiteness of his immaculate shirt-front
was defiled for the first and last time by the big blood stain that showed how his life had
ebbed away. But it was Moira most of all who caught and held my attention. She was standing
just a little to the left of Bryce, her deep eyes wide with horror and a smoking revolver still
held in her white clenched hand. She was staring at Bryce and the blood-stain on his shirt
as if what she saw was too monstrous for belief.

"Moira Drummond," I said, in a hard, cold, emotionless voice that I hardly recognised as mine,
"put down that thing instantly."

She turned her head at my words and regarded me dazedly for just the fraction of a second.
Then in an instant the revolver dropped from her nerveless fingers and clattered to the floor,
she swayed like a willow-wand in the wind, and would have fallen had I not sprung to catch
her. She went limp in my arms. I did not need a second glance to tell me that Bryce was dead,
and that no one in this world could do anything for him now. So, recognising that my first
duty was to the living, I turned my attention to Moira. She had merely fainted, and one or
two simple remedies brought her round very quickly. She opened her golden-brown eyes and looked
up into mine. The unaccustomed horror of what she had just gone through had not yet died out
of them; they held a plaintive, pleading look that somehow went straight to my heart.

"I didn't do it," she quavered.

"Who said you did?" I asked.

"The way you looked and spoke to me, Jim----"

I stopped her with a gesture. "That's all right," I said consolingly. "I wouldn't have thought
so for a moment. But tell me just what happened."

"That's more than I can," she said. "I was standing by him, talking, and suddenly I heard the
window glass smash and something went 'pop.' And the next I knew uncle gave a little cry and
his head fell forward on his chest. The blood was welling up out of his wound, and I saw that
he was killed. His revolver was on the table, so I seized it and fired at the window. I don't
know whether I hit whoever fired, but I hope I did," she concluded, with the faintest touch
of forgivable viciousness in her voice.

It was only when she drew my attention to it that I remembered having heard the glass break.
The window had a great big star in the centre of it with a myriad little cracks radiating from
it like the spokes of a wheel.

Moira looked first at the window, then at the still figure sitting in the chair. Finally she
turned to me.

"Jim, what are we to do?" she asked helplessly.

"Well," I answered, seeing now that everything fell upon me, "we'll have to get hold of a doctor.
It's just for form's sake, you understand. He won't be able to do anything. Then we'll have
to ring up the police. It's a blessing we've got the 'phone on, as I wouldn't care to leave
you by yourself now even for a moment. It's a wonder that none of the servants heard the noise."

"They're all out, Jim."

"That's lucky in one way," I said. "Now, Moira, I want you to understand that the safety of
us both depends on how far you back me up. We can't touch your uncle until the police come;
there'd be trouble if we did. I'm going to ring up now, and in the meantime you'd better find
some of your uncle's cartridges."

"Why, Jim?"

"I'll tell you when I come back," I said. "Just do as I tell you. There should be some in the
drawer of that table. Be careful how you get them out; you don't want to have to touch anything
more than you can help. I'll leave the door open so I can see you from the 'phone. You won't
be frightened?"

She shook her head, but her white face told me as plainly as so many words that the sooner
I came back the better. Accordingly I wasted no further time, but turned on the hall light
and took up the telephone-book. For a wonder I had no difficulty in getting connected with
either the doctor or the police, and, once I had made my meaning plain, I hung up and returned
to Moira.

"The police'll be here in ten minutes at the outside," I said. "I've got just that time to
make you word-perfect. You've got the cartridges? Thanks. I only want one. Now listen. Your
story's thin, it's so thin that there's many a detective wouldn't believe it; but I'm not going
to give them a chance. I'm going to rig up things so that they'll look right. What happened
is this:--You and I were out in the next room, reading if you like, when we heard a shot. We
rushed in and found your uncle just as he is now. We've no idea who shot him, and neither you
nor I fired a shot. When we find your uncle's revolver in the drawer with its seven chambers
undischarged we're going to be just as much at sea as anybody else."

"But I did fire a shot," she objected. "How can you get away from that?"

"Easy. First of all I take out the discharged cylinder. Then I clean out the gun. I mustn't
forget to clean it out, because if I do and people examine it, they'll see that it's been discharged,
and they'll begin to suspect. We mustn't leave the least ground for suspicion. Now, there's
the gun ready loaded in all its chambers and as clean as the day it came out of the shop. Back
it goes into the drawer, and it stays there until the police find it. You understand just what
you've to do now?"

"I think I do, Jim. But, oh, you've got to help me all you can!"

"I will that," I said in a sudden burst of cordiality. "I want you to feel that you can rely
on me right through. And if there's any questions asked just let me do the answering, and if
you're asked anything, why just say the same as I do. You can't say anything else because we
were together all the night."

"But, Jim, I don't see why we should have to deceive people like this. Why is it necessary?"

"Have you ever heard of the thing called circumstantial evidence, Moira? You must remember
that I heard a shot, and ran into the room just in time to see you standing over your uncle
with a smoking revolver. I know what happened, but the police mightn't look at the matter in
the same light. There's plenty of other ways of explaining that broken window."

"I suppose you know what's best," she said with a tired little sigh. "But it all does seem
so horrible. I wish I hadn't to lie so."

"There's worse things than lying," I hinted. "It's a case of choosing the lesser of two evils,
and really, Moira, I think in his own peculiar way your uncle trusted me."

She nodded as if she could not trust herself to speak.

Then came the sound of heavy footsteps on the verandah, and the door-bell rang violently.

"That's the police, very likely," I said in a quick whisper. "Just keep your head and leave
the rest to me."

She said no word, but the pressure of her hand on mine told me more than hours of speech.

CHAPTER VI.

I TELL A LIE.

The police had brought the divisional surgeon with them, and he made his brief examination
while the sergeant questioned Moira and myself. My story was the simple one that I had outlined,
and I must say that Moira played up well to my lead. She was naturally upset at what she had
gone through, and the sergeant, I fancy, made allowance for this, and attributed any trifling
discrepancies between our two stories to this fact. He was one of the politest officials it
has ever been my lot to deal with, and he carried out his duties in a way that made me his
debtor for life. I was not as shocked by the occurrence as I might have been. I had seen far
too much of the rough side of life and the sudden side of death to have any other feeling than
a rather natural sorrow at losing a man who had been something more than a benefactor to me;
but I did not make the radical mistake of treating Bryce's death too lightly. I rather flatter
myself that I mixed my sorrow and my common sense in just the right proportions. It was different
with Moira; she was genuinely distressed, and made no effort to conceal it. It was the first
time for many years that I had seen her so unaffected, and natural, and I must say that the
sight brought out all that was best in me.

The sergeant took our names and then began a close personal questioning. He enquired into my
past life, asked me how long I had been with Bryce, and then bluntly demanded to know in what
capacity I was staying in the house.

"Mr. Bryce," I said, "was an old friend of my father's, and naturally there was always a welcome
here for me."

I picked my words carefully, because I was in mortal dread that some stray remark might put
him on to that affair on the beach. I knew that if he once got wind of that everything was
up with us, and our hastily-built castle of cards would come tumbling to the ground. While
I was thinking of this it struck me all of a heap that there was a chance of something leaking
out about the burglar of the other day. The only thing I could see was to make a clean breast
of it.

"I don't know whether this has got anything to do with the burglary the other night," I said
casually.

"What's that?" the sergeant demanded.

I repeated my remark. "This is the first I've heard of it," the man said. "Why wasn't it reported
before? It's over a week ago, you say."

"About that," I agreed, "but it was reported. Mr. Bryce went down himself to tell you." And
here I looked warningly at Moira. She gave no sign that she had noticed my glance, but somehow
I felt that she quite understood what was required of her.

"I don't deny he might have come down," the man ran on, "but all the same no report has reached
us."

"That's mighty curious," I said with assumed thoughtfulness. "Now I come to think of it, it
struck me at the time that you people hadn't followed the matter up. I meant to ask Mr. Bryce
about it, but the matter went clean out of my mind, and it was just this moment that I recollected
it. It does seem a bit of a puzzler."

"If you tell me all that happened, Mr. Carstairs," the sergeant suggested, "it might help us
a bit. There's something very like a motive in this."

I gave him a rather sketchy account of the night of the burglar's visit, but, without actually
giving a false description of the burglar himself, I so drew him that he would be difficult
to recognise. I was swayed by cautiousness more than anything else at the moment, but I fancy
that deep down in my mind was a primitive longing to settle with the man without having recourse
to the law. At any rate no policeman in the country would have arrested him on the description
I gave.

"It's a pity he got away," said the sergeant when I'd finished. "It looks as if he's the man.
What was taken, Mr. Carstairs?"

"According to Mr. Bryce there wasn't anything even touched."

"Looks as if Mr. Bryce had a past," the man said in a half-whisper meant for my ears alone.

I regarded the suggestion with alarm. "I don't see how that could be," I told him. "I've known
him for a good many years, and my father knew him before that. But of course I've been in the
Islands for close on to four years, and something that I am unaware of may have occurred in
that time."

"Just so," he agreed. "We'll see what Miss Drummond has to say."

"Had your uncle any enemies that you know of?" she was asked.

She answered the question with admirable adroitness. "My uncle was the kindest of men," she
said. "I can conceive of no reason why he should have any enemies."

I suppose our very apparent frankness threw the man off his guard, for I'm perfectly satisfied
that he could have tripped us up more than once had he had the faintest suspicion that we were
not telling the exact truth. But we strove, rather successfully as it now appears, to twist
the truth to suit ourselves without actually telling a downright lie, and we did it in a way
that seemed to satisfy him, astute though he was. I told him but one lie that evening, though
as a matter of fact it was much nearer the truth than anything else I had said, so strangely
do things fall out.

"Miss Drummond is Mr. Bryce's niece, isn't she?" he asked.

"That's right," I said, and Moira nodded.

"Now let me see," he ran on, ticking off the points on his fingers, "you are an old friend
of the family's. That's correct, isn't it?"

"That's so," I agreed.

"Anything more?"

"I don't quite understand you," I said, with the faintest doubt at the back of my mind. He
spoke as if he knew or suspected something more than I had told him.

He looked at Moira and then at me, and I saw that he was smiling. It was just the sort of smile
that one would expect from that portion of the world that loves a lover.

"Oh!" I said with a relief that I made no attempt to hide, "so you've guessed it."

"Guessed what?" Moira queried quickly, her face paling to a perceptible degree.

I turned to her with the cheeriest smile I could muster at the moment. "He's guessed that we're
engaged, Moira," I said. And the note of exultation in my voice was more real than I had intended.

"It's not the time to be rejoicing over such things," I rattled on, "but--well, I suppose we're
all young only once and we've got to make the best of it."

The sergeant was a gem of his kind, and even the nearness of a tragedy and the rigidness of
the rules that governed his daily life had not crushed out of him that little touch of Nature
that makes the whole world kin. Thanks to the easiness of my manner and his own ready stumbling
into the trap I had not set for him, he now looked upon me as nothing more than a love-sick
youth with no eyes for anyone or anything save the girl who occupied his heart. If the man
could only have seen what was in my mind, if by any chance he had overheard our conversation
on the morning of the burglary, how quickly he would have changed his good opinion of us both.
But luckily he was no mind-reader, and my little piece of bluff achieved more success than
was its due.

"You needn't worry about anything," he said with an almost paternal note in his voice. "We
police have certain duties to carry out, but we're human after all, and anything I can do as
a man and a brother I'll be only too pleased to have you ask."

"Thank you," I said, with gratitude that was less than half feigned.

The divisional surgeon gave it as his opinion that death had been practically instantaneous.
The bullet had entered the wall of the chest a little too close to the heart to be pleasant.
The doctor did tell me just what else had happened, but either he did not make himself clear
or I have forgotten it.

Presently a couple of the police who had been put on the trail of the fugitive returned and
reported nothing doing. The garden just outside the window was a good deal trampled about,
and there were footmarks in plenty on the soft soil, but, as the sergeant remarked, "Footmarks
are like finger prints--they're no use unless you know who made them." All things considered,
it looked as if our man had got clean away again. I had a fancy that neither Moira nor I had
seen the last of him. Standing there in the very room that had witnessed the tragedy, with
the body of the murdered man hanging limply in the chair, the lifeless clay scarcely yet cold,
it came to me with something of the clearness of prophecy that this was not the end but the
beginning of the play. It was something closely akin to second sight, and for the moment the
spaciousness of the vision that I saw but dimly thrilled me with its possibilities. I knew,
though how I knew I cannot say even at this distant date, that the calm, silent policemen with
their helmets in their hands, the earnest, energetic divisional surgeon, and his confrère the
sergeant, even the dead man himself, were but the merest supers in the prelude to adventure.
Moira and I were the only ones who were real, the only actors that were something more than
mummers. Yet even I failed to see that what had happened that night was something more than
a queer insoluble mystery. There was nothing in my experience to tell me that it was vitally
connected with the early history of Victoria, that it had its being in the now far-off days
before Australia became a nation. I think if any supernatural whisper of the truth had reached
me that I would not have been surprised, but that is the most that I can say.

I came back abruptly to reality to find a cold wind blowing in through the crack in the window.
The doctor and the two policemen between them were lifting Bryce out of the chair he would
never more occupy, and I, with my profounder knowledge of death and its consequences, saw just
what they were going to do.

"I think I'd better take Miss Drummond outside for the present," I whispered to the sergeant.
The man nodded, and, taking Moira by the arm, I led her from the room.

"It would be better if you could go to bed," I suggested.

She shook her head wearily. "I can't, Jim. It's no good trying to persuade me. I just couldn't."

"I think I understand," I said softly.

"I don't feel sorry a bit, Jim. I know it's a strange thing to say, but it's the truth, and
there it is. I couldn't summon a tear. But just inside me there's a vacancy, a sense of loss.
He's gone out of my life, and I'll never meet anyone who'll quite take his place. I can't put
what I mean into so many words, but I think you can understand. You're quick at understanding,
Jim. I don't feel sorry a bit, and I don't want to cry, somehow; but I'll miss him dreadfully.
I'm hard in some ways, Jim. I must be terribly devoid of affection."

I made no answer to that. My thoughts were on one summer's evening four--or was it five?--years
ago, and in the light of what had happened then I could scarcely contradict her now.

"I'm sorry," I said abruptly, "that I had to tell that lie about our being engaged. But I had
to be as natural as I could, and the more obvious an explanation I gave the better for us all."

She looked at me for a moment with unutterable things in the depths of her golden-brown eyes.

"I'm sorry," she said slowly, "that you had to tell a lie."

I took her remark as the natural corollary of mine, but some sub-conscious sense in me insisted
that its very ambiguity was designed.

Almost at that moment I heard footsteps in the hall, and knew that the servants had just come
home. The big clock in the hall chimed ten.

"There's the women," I said. "You'd better tell them, and see they don't make a scene."

Moira nodded and went down the hall to meet them.

There is little more to relate of this phase of my story. Naturally there was an inquest, and
just as naturally was a verdict returned of "death at the hands of a person or persons unknown,"
or words to that effect. The situation, in fine, was that Bryce was dead and buried, and the
police admitted that they held no clue to the identity of the murderer. Motive there was none
as far as they could see, and the whole affair looked like one of these senseless crimes that
from time to time startle the city folk from their easy-going equanimity. The matter was not
even a nine-days' wonder, for other things occupied the attention of the press, and a stickful
was the most it ever got in any paper.

I stayed on in the house at Moira's request and attended to several matters that were rather
outside her province. The old man turned out not to be as rich as we had thought, though he
had money enough in truth. The bulk of this went to Moira, with the curious proviso that she
could not invest it in any way without first submitting the proposal to me and receiving my
sanction. The will was of recent date, as a matter of fact it had been drawn up within a few
days of Moira's arrival. There was a sum left to me, too, enough to make me independent for
a good many years to come.

Moira's mother arrived the day after the tragedy, and showed no very evident intention of returning
home. She was very nice to me, but then there was no reason why she should have been anything
else. Any strain that there had been, and was still for that matter, was between her daughter
and myself, and, like a wise mother, she forebore from interfering in what did not immediately
concern her.

For my own sake, if for no other reason, I hurried along the winding-up of Bryce's affairs.
I saw, or fancied I saw, that the sooner I left the house the better would Moira be pleased.
For when all was said and done there could be no denying that things were far from satisfactory.
Neither of us made any further reference to my bare-faced lying on that ill-starred night,
but the more I thought of it the more equivocal did the present situation seem. I for one was
doubly glad when at last we finished with the lawyers, and things--blessed, indefinite word--seemed
like to settle down again.

My time of departure was no further off than twenty-four hours away when the incident occurred
that led to a hurried readjustment of my plans and that brought us, willy-nilly, to the Valley--for
so I still persist in calling it, as if there were not another valley in the world--and the
treasure that lay there and helped us to unravel the tangled threads of Bryce's past life.

I had my bag already packed, and had announced that I was going the next evening, when Moira
stayed me with a word.

"I've been meaning to talk to you for a long time," she said, "but somehow I could never seem
to summon up enough courage. It's about Uncle and ... well, you know as well as I do, that
there was some mystery about him."

"Go on," I said.

"Well, he told me once that if ever anything happened to him we would find documents in his
room that would help us to take up the work where he left off. He repeated that the very night
he died. Don't you see what that means?"

"It means that they are still there," I said soberly.

CHAPTER VII.

INTRODUCING MR. ALBERT CUMSHAW.

"That's the peculiar part of it, Jim. They should still be in the room, because they couldn't
possibly have been taken away. Yet I've hunted high and low and I can't find them."

"And, now you find you're in difficulties, you call me in," I hinted.

"Jim, I wish you wouldn't talk that way. There's no call for us to be continually bickering.
If we can't be anything else, at least we can be friends, can't we?"

"I suppose it's worth trying. But what have the papers to do with me?"

"They affect you as well as me, Jim. Uncle wished the two of us to carry on his work."

"How pleasant!" I murmured. "And suppose I refuse?"

"Well," she said, with just the least gesture of helplessness, "I'll have to do whatever I
can myself. But it was Uncle's wish that we divide the proceeds."

"The proceeds of what?"

"That's more than I can say, Jim. We've got to find the papers first."

"That's so, Moira. Seeing it's you, I'll hunt for them; if it's worth while I might even help
you through, but you'll have to understand from the very start that I won't finger a penny
of what you call the proceeds."

"You usen't to be like that, Jim."

"I've changed a lot, haven't I?" I grinned.

For a moment she stared blankly at me, then she asked me, as if the thought had just occurred
to her, "There isn't any other girl, is there?"

"There never was any other girl," I said. "There was always only the one, but she failed...."

I saw that she had some intimate little revelation on the tip of her tongue, so, for fear she
might say too much--one never knows what a woman will say if she fancies any words of hers
will gain the day--I said briskly, "Now, about those papers, Moira. Where did you look?"

"Everywhere, Jim."

"You couldn't have. There's one place at least where you haven't looked."

"And that?" she queried eagerly.

"The place where they're hidden," I answered disconcertingly.

"Oh," she said blankly; and then, "Have you any idea where that is?"

I shook my head. "None at all, Moira. Still your uncle told you that they were in his study,
and as you say they couldn't have been taken away, the only thing to do is to look in every
likely place for a start."

"And if we find nothing?"

"Then we'll look in the unlikely places. And as there's no time like the present, I suggest
we start now."

Moira was quite agreeable to that, so we entered the room. Books and everything lay just as
we had left them the night of the tragedy; only the broken window-pane had been taken out and
a new one inserted.

"I never thought of it before," I remarked, "but the sight of that new pane just brought to
my mind how narrow a squeak you had that night."

"I don't follow you, Jim."

"Well, if our friends the police hadn't been so willing to swallow the obvious, they would
have seen that my tale was all bunkum. When that chap fired he starred the window, and when
your shot went through it finished the job and knocked a finger of glass right out. If the
sergeant had only gone over to the window and examined it carefully, he would have seen enough
to make him wonder how the deuce the same shot could have hit the same bit of glass in two
places. But he didn't go over to examine it; I had filled his mind with an hypothesis, and
he couldn't see anything else but that. Now it's the same with this business of looking for
the papers. You seem to think your uncle would put them just where anyone could lay hands on
them. I don't. Your uncle had a fair amount of foresight--he realised all along that it was
likely that he'd be cut off short--and the mere fact that he told you twice at least that he
had left you instructions shows that he had gone about things carefully and methodically. Again,
he had no means of knowing just how he would be killed, so you can take it for granted that
he provided against such a contingency as this room being thoroughly searched by the murderers.
In other words, the papers are so placed that only an intelligent person who knew your uncle's
mind would guess where the hiding place is. Now I'm having a wild shot at it, but it's logical
enough in all conscience. When you can't find a thing, try to take over the mentality of the
man who hid it."

"I'm afraid you're getting too deep for me, Jim."

"I'll put it another way, Moira. Something influenced your uncle in the hiding-place he selected,
and we've got to parallel his thoughts, if we can, in order to find out the spot."

"But that's impossible."

"At first glance it seems like it. But just think the matter over. I've got more than half
an idea already. Whatever those papers are they're certainly typewritten, and I'm sure they've
something to do with that bit of wood. Oh, I forgot. I've never told you about that. It happened
on the beach."

"Uncle told me how he met you," Moira volunteered.

"I'll bet he didn't say anything about the driftwood though."

"No, he did not," Moira admitted. So then and there I told her the tale. "You can understand
from that," I concluded, "that whatever he was typing had something to do with that piece of
wood. Now when he had made up his mind to secrete the papers two words would be prominent in
his thoughts."

"I know," she said with a flash of intuition.

"Tell me," I smiled.

"'Sands' and 'wood,'" she said eagerly.

"'Wood' is one of them," I answered, "but I rather prefer to say 'bury' for the other. Now
the only place he could bury anything about here in such a way that it wouldn't be noticed
is under the hearthstone; but, as it's cement in this case, I think we can leave it out of
the question. He wouldn't put them under the floor. For one thing it'd take too long, and the
sweepers would be sure to notice if the carpet or the linoleum had been disturbed. So that
brings us back to 'wood' again."

"How about the wall? A secret panel, or something of the kind?"

"I don't think he'd select anything so obvious," I said with a shake of my head. "It had to
be a place that we'd find, but that everyone else would miss. There's quite a lot of wooden
articles here, Moira, so we'll go over them very carefully."

I surveyed the furniture ruefully. "Looks as if we'll have to chop a lot of things to pieces,"
I remarked.

"Silly!" said Moira Drummond disgustedly. "We're looking for something hollow, so why not tap?"

"Brilliant idea!" I said.

As I sit writing at this table in that very same room, the scene comes back to me with all
the clearness of a well-developed photograph. In my mind's eye I see Moira and myself on our
knees tapping every inch of the old mahogany and the newer imitation Chippendale, and I realise
as I have realised a dozen times since to what needless trouble we went, when a little thought
upon the lines that I have already mapped out would have led us just as easily, and perhaps
a good deal quicker, to the very spot itself. But we were young then--though for that matter
we are still--and to young people all motion is progress. It is only when one gets older and
sees things in perspective that one realises.... But that wasn't what I set out to write about.

The long and short of it was that we tapped all the furniture most carefully, and at the end
of it found that our persistence was still unrewarded.

"There's something wrong somewhere," Moira said disappointedly.

"It seems as if there's been a mistake in our judgment," I agreed. "Still I fancy the table's
the most likely place. You see he sat there always."

"Suppose you sit in his place then, Jim."

"Excellent idea, Moira," I said, and at once proceeded to put it into practice.

"Now if I had just finished typing anything and was looking for a safe place to hide it, where
would I naturally go?" I said out aloud. Moira dropped into a chair on the other side of the
table and leaned forward, her chin resting in her hand, and regarded me with intense interest.
I went on talking to myself. "I'm thinking of wood, and the nearest wood to me is the table.
Therefore I'd hide it somewhere about the table, not in or on it, but just about it."

Moira's eyes glowed--I remember that particularly--and we both must have seized on the idea
at one and the same instant.

"Oh, why didn't we think of it before?" she cried, and then the two of us were on our knees
and groping under the table. It was a massive piece of furniture in its way, with a large cross-piece
running from side to side underneath. And on this cross-piece, so tied with string that it
could not slip off, was a tiny packet of oil-skin.

"The safest place in the house," I said, as I stood upright and held out a helping hand to
Moira. "No one would ever think of looking there. See how nearly we missed it."

"Jim, Jim, let's have a look!" she begged.

My answer was to place the package in my pocket. "Not here," I said in explanation. "You must
remember that those murdering gentlemen aren't accounted for yet, and it'd be a pity to let
them get hold of the very thing we've been keeping out of their clutches for so long."

"I never thought of that," she said with a crestfallen air. "Of course you're right. But where'll
we go?"

"Any of the inner rooms. The drawing-room, say. That hasn't got any windows opening out on
to the garden."

Moira caught my arm. "Come on, Jim," she cried, "I'm dying to know what is in it."

"The more haste the less speed," I remarked soberly. "Likewise there's many a slip between
the cup and the lip."

"Don't, Jim, don't be pessimistic just when everything's beginning to turn out well."

"Beginning," I repeated. "You're right there. We're just beginning now."

But all the same she did not take her hand off my arm, and when hers slipped through mine in
quite the good old way, I could not find it in my heart to tell her that she must do no such thing.

The drawing-room was just as comfortable a place as a man could wish, and I saw at a glance
that there was no likelihood of our being disturbed there.

I held the packet in my hands for I don't know how many seconds, almost afraid to open it.
Inside was the secret that had lost Bryce his life, the secret that had cost, though I did
not know it at the time, almost a dozen lives, and that would bring two at least of our associates
perilously close to the grave before our work was ended. Moira shared some of my hesitation,
for she made no effort to hurry me into undoing the packet, but stood awaiting my pleasure.

The string was tied so tightly that I could not unknot it. I drew my knife and cut it, and
the oil-skin unrolled of itself. The first thing I came across was a letter from Bryce addressed
to the two of us. It was not contained in an envelope, but seemed to have been slipped in as
an after-thought. It ran:--

     Dear Moira and Dear Jimmy,--

     If you ever read this it will be because I am no more and have
     failed to bring my plans to a successful conclusion. In that case I
     look to the two of you to carry on from the point where I left off,
     but because you are both young, and so have very little sense, I
     don't intend to let either of you fall into an easy thing. There's
     money at the back of this, enough to make you rich for life, but
     you'll have to use the brains you both have got and work like the
     very dickens to get it. I've put some of the necessary directions
     in a cypher that a child could read, but apart from that you'll
     have to use your heads. As you know some things that Moira doesn't,
     Jimmy, and vice versa, you can see that it won't pay either of you
     to quarrel.

     The man who really holds the key to the situation is a gentleman
     named Abel Cumshaw. Abel, I understand, is in his second childhood,
     and can never be brought to realise that it is any later than the
     early eighties, but his son Albert is a most astonishing young
     fellow, as you'll find when you meet him, if you have not already
     done so before this falls into your hands. You see I have
     sufficient confidence in your ability to believe that you will find
     this package sooner or later. If it's too late when you do find it,
     of course the joke'll be on the pair of you.

     Now, a word to you, Moira. Jimmy knows the hidden valley quite
     well, so don't believe him if he says he doesn't. I spent nearly an
     hour the other day telling him all about it, and even went the
     length of showing him a map of the place. If he doesn't help you
     out, it's because he's got a bad memory.

     As for yourself, Jimmy, remember that you can't get along without
     Moira and don't try. Once you've found what you're looking for you
     can each go your own way, but I rather fancy you won't want to
     then. I think that's about all, unless to remind you that Mr.
     Albert Cumshaw will be entitled to his fair share of the spoils.

And on that note the letter ended, and underneath was his sprawling signature, "H. Bryce,"
written as firmly as ever he had written it.

"Well, what do you make of that?" I asked when I had finished reading it.

"I--I----"

"I know," I cut in. "I feel that way too. Do you think he's put up a joke on us?"

"I just don't want to speak about it," Moira said tearfully. "It's--it's--I wouldn't have expected
it of him."

"It's the unexpected that happens," I said with some idea that I was consoling her. I could
see that the tears were very near her eyes, and I didn't want her to break down now and cry.
A man is always at a great disadvantage in dealing with a weeping woman; she can usually persuade
him to do almost anything for her while she's in that state. If I find my wife crying--but
it doesn't matter what I'd do, for I've no right to be introducing purely speculative matter
that has nothing at all to do with the story.

"It doesn't explain anything," Moira said at length. "It only makes everything worse than ever."

"I wouldn't say that," I said. I saw, or thought I saw, a glimmer of light. It was so faint
that I daren't as yet put it into words. "He must have been in a rather frivolous mood when
he wrote this," I continued. "All the same, I think we're getting closer. We haven't looked
at the cypher yet, you know."

"No more we have, Jim. Let's see what it's like."

I handed it to her. At first sight I could have sworn that it was the identical piece of paper
that I had picked up from the kitchen floor that momentous afternoon, but a second glance showed
me that I was mistaken. Many of the characters were the same, but the grouping was altogether
different. They ran as follows:--

     2@3; 5@3 &9; 3 5433-3/4 5@3 @75 £994 1/4; £ 5@3 48-1/2-8;? 1/2-7;
     1/4-43 8; &8;3 --3-1/4-1/2-743 1/2-3: 3; "335 3-1/4-1/2-5.5@3;
     "1/4-/3 £843/5 ;945@3/4 £4-1/4-2 1/4;95@34 &8;3 1/4-5 48?@5
     1/4;?&3-1/2 59 5@3 043:897-1/2 9;3 3)53; £8;? "94 523&:3 "335.£8?
     5@3.

"It doesn't seem to mean anything, Jim," she said in consternation.

"I'll admit it's pretty hard to understand," I told her. "It looks like a page out of a ready
reckoner or a mathematician's nightmare. But it does mean something or your uncle wouldn't
have put it up to us. What it is we've got to find out. Possibly the Mr. Cumshaw of the letter
can throw a little light on the subject."

"Who is Mr. Cumshaw, Jim?"

"I never heard of the man until I read this letter," I said. "He's a new element in the plot,
and, unless your uncle's pulling our legs, I think he's going to be a very important factor."

"He's got to share with us, too," she reminded me.

"Share with you," I corrected. "I've told you a couple of times already that I'll help you
to it, but that I don't intend to take a penny of the money. So, when you're figuring it out,
remember it's halves, not thirds, you're working on."

"If it was anybody else but me you'd take it quickly enough," she said accusingly.

"Maybe I would and again maybe I wouldn't," I said with a smile.

"Oh, Jim, I hate you!" she cried in a sudden blaze of temper.

"I'm sorry," I said easily. "It doesn't take much to make you hate seemingly."

She turned and faced me with one of those swift changes of front that made her so hard to deal
with. The white-hot anger had gone as suddenly as it had come, and in its place there was nothing
but hopelessness. She looked so weary and so miserable that for the moment I was tempted to
take her in my arms and tell her that the past did not matter any more than did the future.
But the memory of the words with which she had driven me out of her life that summer's evening
long ago lashed me like a whip, and in an instant I had hardened my heart.

"Why do you make it so hard for me, Jim?" she moaned. "If only you would help me a little."

"I'm helping you all I can," I said with a touch of cynicism in my voice. "You can count on
me until the adventure's finished."

"You know I don't mean that," she said weakly.

"There's nothing else you can mean," I answered stubbornly.

For the space of a heart-beat we stood facing each other. I saw that she was on the verge of
a breakdown, and I knew that my own resolution was failing. After all, what need was there
for me to be so brutal? She had suffered more than enough for the idle words spoken in haste
all those years ago. There is no knowing what might have happened had not Fate intervened.
But just as things had reached breaking-strain the door-bell rang. The prosaic sound brought
us back instantly to earth, and a dramatic situation, tense with possibilities, became in a
moment common-place.

"There's the door-bell," Moira said calmly. "I wonder who it can be."

"Some visitor or other," I remarked.

"What visitor could it be?" she asked. "I know of no one who'd have business here."

I knew of one at least, but I did not put my thoughts into words. Instead I remarked, "Quite
possibly it's some house-hunter."

We heard the maid's steps go up the hall past us. There was a whispered colloquy at the door,
and then, quite distinctly, the maid's voice said, "I'll see if he is in."

"That must be me," I guessed. "I'm the only 'he' in the house."

"But who knows you're here?" Moira objected.

"That's right," I said. "Who does?"

I opened the door of the room and looked out. The maid, who was coming down the passage, caught
sight of me. "There's a gentleman wishes to see you, Mr. Carstairs," she announced.

"Show him in here," I said.

I turned back into the room. "You'd better stop here, Moira," I said as she made a movement
to go. "It can't be anything private. It's just as likely that it's something that interests
you too."

She sat down again.

The maid ushered the newcomer into the room. I ran my eye over him as I advanced to meet him.
He was small and dapper, and his air of self-possession was almost perfect. His features were
clean-cut, dark eyes glowed in a face that had evidently been exposed to the weather for many
years, and his brow was surmounted by a mass of black curls.

"Mr. Carstairs?" he asked.

"That's me," I said truthfully but ungrammatically.

"This will explain my business," he said, and handed me a piece of pasteboard. I took it from
him; it was one of Bryce's visiting cards, and scribbled across the foot of it were these words:--"Introducing
Mr. Albert Cumshaw. H. Bryce."

"I've been expecting you, Mr. Cumshaw," I said. "I've been expecting you for some days now."

As a matter of fact I hadn't, but it is always a good rule to allow the other man to think
you know everything.

"Moira," I said, "this is the Mr. Cumshaw we've been waiting for. Mr. Cumshaw, Miss Drummond."

"Pleased to meet you," he said and looked as if he meant it.

"Take a seat, Mr. Cumshaw," I said, and when he had accepted a chair, "What can I do for you?"
I enquired.

He looked curiously from one to the other of us as if to seek an inspiration. "I presume Mr.
Bryce is not about," he said at length.

"Well, hardly," I answered. "He's been dead this last couple of weeks." It was longer than
that in reality, but I mentioned the first period that came into my head. Anyway, it didn't
matter much how long it was since he died; nothing could make him any the less dead now.

"Oh," said Mr. Cumshaw quietly, as though my news was just what he had been expecting all along.
"It is most regrettable," he added.

"Now what can I do for you?" I persisted.

"Touching the little matter of the gold escort," he said and fixed me with a glowing eye.

"Yes, the gold escort, Mr. Cumshaw. What about it!"

He did not answer that immediately, but eyed both Moira and me as if to test our receptive
capacities. I maintained an attitude of complete indifference; Moira leaned forward a little
with interest plainly marked in every line of her face.

"You were both in Mr. Bryce's confidence?" His quiet remark took the form of a question.

I nodded.

"Go on," Moira urged. "You came to tell us about your father, Mr. Abel Cumshaw."

"That's right," said the young man with amazing alacrity. "You're all right too. I wasn't sure
at first, but now I see you're in the game with me. From what I know of it we're all like pieces
of a jig-saw puzzle. We all fit in, and none of us is any use without the others. That being
so, I fancy that we had better all place our cards on the table. Now which of you has got the
cypher?"

Moira looked at me for guidance. I was pleased to see that she was learning that she couldn't
do without me. I was pleased--no, I wasn't pleased at all, for it didn't matter now what Moira
thought of me.

"What cypher is that?" I enquired innocently.

"There is only one cypher, Mr. Carstairs," Mr. Cumshaw stated. He seemed so sure about it that
my curiosity was aroused.

"Indeed?" I said politely. I knew better than to contradict him outright, so I did it by implication.

"There's only the one," the young man repeated. "You should know, because Mr. Bryce left it
to you."

If I had had any doubts before as to the genuine character of my visitor they all vanished
at that last remark of his. It was one of those things that a man could not have guessed, however
clever he might be. He must have had inside knowledge. Hitherto I had been indulging in that
pleasant pastime that is known in boxing circles as "sparring for wind," but now I dropped
the pose completely and answered him as straightforwardly as was consistent with reasonable
caution.

"Yes, he did leave a cypher to me," I admitted. "But what do you know about it?"

"Only what Mr. Bryce wrote me. I'm sorry I can't show you the letter, but Mr. Bryce had an
invariable rule that all correspondence from him must be burnt as soon as read."

"I guess I've got to accept you at your face value, Mr. Cumshaw," I said. "You'll pardon me
for doubting you at first, but it pays to be cautious in a game like this. Now I'd like to
know just how we are going to assist each other."

"That's more than I can say," the young man smiled. "If I tell you the story from start to
finish, maybe you'll get a better idea of what we're after."

"Would it take long?" I said diffidently. "It's fairly late now."

"If Mr. Cumshaw would stop to tea," Moira suggested, and looked to me for approval of her proposition.
Under the circumstances there was only one thing for me to do, so I did it.

"You'll greatly oblige us if you stop," I said. "That is if it won't be causing any inconvenience?"
I added questioningly.

"None at all," he said cheerily. "Nothing of this sort ever inconveniences me"--this latter
with a glance at Moira.

"So that's the game, is it, young man?" I said to myself. "Well, here's luck to you."

Aloud I said, "I am pleased to hear it." The funny part of it all was that I really meant it.
There was something open and honest about the man himself, there was a healthful glow in his
dark eyes, and he had a way of looking at one that was the very essence of frankness itself.
Without knowing more of him than I had learnt in the few minutes we had been conversing, I
felt that he was as open as the day. In this case at least my first impressions were more than
justified by the course of events.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Cumshaw stopped to tea and made himself very much at home, and afterwards he told us the
story of the gold escort. I have not set out his tale as we heard it that evening. For one
thing he only related what he happened to know about the matter, and as a result there were
many little blanks he had to leave unfilled. But with the completion of our enterprise many
additional facts have come to light, and so it is that, with Mr. Cumshaw's aid and at his suggestion,
I give here a fuller and more comprehensive version of the affair than he related to us that
evening.

PART II.

THE ADVENTURES OF MR. ABEL CUMSHAW.

CHAPTER I.

NIGHTFALL.

Far away to the west the fiery globe of the setting sun dropped lazily down to rest behind
the quaint goblin peaks of the Grampians. Its last lingering rays touched their summits with
a crimson glow, flooded the valleys with garish light, and even penetrated into the recesses
of the nearby woodlands until the whole place seemed to blaze as with the red fire of Hell.
It was not a peaceful sunset; it did not even hold the promise of peace. It was alive and active,
in the sense that light can live, and one could but feel that its potency was malignant and
assured. There were clouds aplenty in the sky, light clouds looking as if they had been trailed
through red ink, but there was nothing about them to suggest that a storm was brewing, or that
even the slightest change in the weather could be expected. Nevertheless the air contained
a hint of evil, so much so that an imaginative person would have peopled the hills with gnomes
and the woods with devils. Even had fairies existed in the glades, one would have instinctively
known them to be bad fairies. Yet one could not say offhand whence or from whom the evil that
was to be, would originate; all earth and sky seemed somehow to be in the dread conspiracy.

The lurid hues of the sunset flared and faded into the drabber colors of twilight, the shadows
swept down in phalanxes from the hills, and the still lifeless trees, stirring in the evening
breeze, became black mocking shapes of infamy. The yellow disc of a moon, climbing up over
the woods, took on the semblance of the leering face of a drunken man.

The two men who presently came riding along through the tangled fastnesses of what a couple
of score years or more ago were the untenanted and, to a great extent, the unexplored depths
of a Victorian forest, were very evidently unaffected by the grim fancies of the evening. They
were not laughing certainly, and when they spoke it was in whispers, but the younger man hummed
a music-hall tune under his breath. There was something rakish, not to say reckless, in the
way the elder sat his mount. They went carefully, though, taking every possible precaution
against making needless noise. Once the horse of the elder man stumbled and set a stone rolling
down a declivity. Both men reined in instantly and listened until the echoes died away in the
distance.

"You're as nervous as a rabbit, Jack," the younger man remarked when presently they resumed
their journey. "Every little sound seems to startle you."

"There's no sense in taking chances, man," said the one called Jack.

"If it comes to that there's no chances to take."

"Only that of being caught and hanged, Abel."

"There's not much hope of that," Abel Cumshaw replied. "Gentry like ourselves are rather out
of fashion now since they've squashed the Kellys. The country's quietened down a lot, and a
'ranger's supposed to be a thing of the past. As it is, there's never been bushrangers in this
part of the State, and what hasn't been is the least likely to happen in most people's estimation."

"I'm with you there, Abel," Jack said. "But even that's no reason why we shouldn't go carefully.
You must remember that we don't know this part of the State too well. That's the beauty of
it, I suppose. Nobody knows it very much."

"It'll make pursuit difficult," the other suggested. "But what I can't understand is why the
banks should send so much gold across country when there's the railway."

"The railway, friend Cumshaw, isn't the safest route. There's just as clever men working that
as used to be working the stages. Moreover, this cross-country route's much the quicker way
of the two."

"For which we may thank the Lord," said Abel Cumshaw, with cheerful impiety.

"Time enough to thank the Lord," the other retorted, "when we've finished the job successfully.
All the same, I wish we had a pack horse."

"If we had brought a pack-horse," said Cumshaw, "we'd have had half the country-side wondering
what the deuce was up. Like as not they'd think there was a new gold-strike on."

"And they wouldn't have been wrong in that," the other answered with grim humor. "But let's
get to the business of the evening, Abel. I've got a good idea to put the pursuers off the
scent, that is, if there's any pursuit."

"Out with it, then," said Cumshaw.

The elder man reined in his horse, and, leaning over, whispered in his companion's ear. As
the tale proceeded a cheerful grin spread over Cumshaw's face.

"That'll do fine," he said gleefully. "You almost make me wish they do pursue us just for the
fun of seeing them fall in."

"There's nothing to be gained by being foolhardy," the elder man warned him. "Now we can't
afford to waste time. Let us get to work at once."

Without more ado he led the way down through the tangle of forest and across the open glades
until they reached the narrow track that wound like a monstrous brown ribbon through the enormous
gums. At the edge of the road they both dismounted and tethered their horses to convenient
trees. Then, stepping very gingerly, and taking extreme care not to leave any footprints on
the dusty surface of the track, they groped about on the roadside. Presently they both returned
to the horses, each of them carrying an armful of heavy stones which they loaded carefully
into the enormous saddle-bags that dangled one on each side of the saddle-flaps.

"That should about do it," Cumshaw remarked, when this was completed.

"I hope so," the other answered curtly. He sprang to the saddle, loosed the reins that had
tethered the animal, and setting his spurs deep into its flank galloped up the track for a
matter of a hundred yards or so, closely followed by his companion. Then they turned sharply
off into the bush, designedly traversing the soft impressionable ground. The heavily-laden
horses floundered in the soft soil, and gradually the pace dropped away from a gallop to a
canter, and finally to a walk. When nearly two miles of this sort of country had been covered,
the two men reined in and dismounted. Next they unloaded the stones from the saddle-bags and
hid them carefully in the undergrowth. Cumshaw then proceeded to cut his thick blanket into
strips, each of about eighteen inches square. There were eight of these strips in all--four
he kept himself and the others he handed to his companion.

"It's a smart enough dodge, all right," the man remarked. "The only possible flaw in it is
that there might be some gentleman present who's dealt with cattle-duffers in the past. If
so, he'd be pretty sure to scent our little game, and block it."

"Let's hope for the best," said Mr. Cumshaw, cheerfully, looking up from his work with a smile
that even the darkness of the night could not hide. He was systematically wrapping the squares
of blankets round the hoofs of his mount and securing them in such a way that they would remain
fast even during a wild gallop over rough country. The trick itself was an old one; it had
its origin many years previous in Texas and Arizona when the raiding Indians made their horses
walk over blankets spread on the ground in order to hide the direction of their retreat. The
idea had been adopted and developed by the Australian cattle-duffers to meet the exigencies
of the country they worked in. The trick therefore was by no means a new one, and there was
just a chance, as the man Jack remarked, that someone might drop to it. But the false hoof-prints
were an unprecedented addition that would probably keep the pursuers long enough on the wrong
scent to enable the precious pair to "escape" and "cache" their plunder.

It was characteristic of the two men that once they had taken all precautions they quietly
dismissed the matter from their minds and rode slowly back to the roadway with scarce a thought
for the business in hand. Abel Cumshaw would have whistled had he dared; as it was he hummed
softly to himself. The moon was now well up in the heavens, and its fitful light creeping through
the leafy roof above, made gibbering ghosts of the swaying gums. Mr. Abel Cumshaw and his companion,
Jack Bradby, had been brought up in the Australian bush, their nerves were as steady as a rock,
and where others saw grim visions of fancy they saw only waving bushes and stripped gums. Though
the present adventure was their first essay in ranging, both of them had lived by their wits,
or rather by others' want of wits, for more years than were good for them. Singly or together
they had run other people's sheep and cattle and made a lucrative, if dishonest, living at
the game, and during their visits to the towns had made it a point of warped honor to pay their
expenses with the ill-gotten gold of some duller fellow-creature. On top of it all they had
a carelessness of life and a free hand with their easily-earned wealth that found them friends
wherever they went.

Bradby pulled up suddenly and held up his hand in warning to his companion. Some faint noise
had caught his ear, and, excellent bushman that he was, he would not rest content until he
had located and defined it. Silently as a shadow he slipped from his saddle and dropped recumbent
on the ground. With one ear to the earth beneath he listened. He remained in this posture for
perhaps a minute and a half, then he rose abruptly and turned to Mr. Cumshaw.

"Horses," he said laconically.

"Must be them," Mr. Cumshaw replied with almost equal brevity.

Deftly, and without haste of any sort, each man knotted a red and white spotted handkerchief
across the lower half of his face, leaving only the eyes and forehead visible. Then each tilted
his hat so that the shadow thrown by the brim shrouded the uncovered portion of the face. Mr.
Cumshaw, with the amazing simplicity of a conjurer, produced a pair of ugly-looking revolvers
from apparent nothingness, while his companion slipped his holsters round so that his weapons
were within easy and immediate reach. He did not, however, remount his horse, but threw the
reins to Mr. Cumshaw, who draped them over his arm in such a way that they did not hamper his
movements in the least.

       *       *       *       *       *

The little group of horsemen, four, or perhaps five in all, clattered down the track as unsuspiciously
as a man could wish. They were chatting quite easily, even joyously, of the thousand and one
little matters that supplied their daily lives with interest, and nothing must have been further
from their thoughts than what actually occurred. The bank that had sent them had departed from
all precedent in parcelling out the gold amongst the messengers. It was certainly against the
rather strict regulations of the bank, but the man who had instructed them had that contempt
for rules and regulations which is the mark of a man destined to rise in the world.

"The expense of sending you," he had said, "is certainly no greater than that of the recognised
method of forwarding by coach. The security of my method is even greater as you are not at
all open to suspicion."

As a matter of fact, all would have gone well had not one of the chosen messengers been a little
too fond of his nightly drink, and more or less inclined to talk when in his cups. True, on
this particular evening he had exercised a kind of maudlin caution, but the tactics of Mr.
Jack Bradby were of the sort to extract valuable information in the least noticeable way possible,
and as a consequence the man, while keeping a strict guard of his tongue, at the same time
let fall enough information to satisfy the curiosity of the 'ranger.

The first intimation the little cavalcade had of the presence of the knights of the road was
when a shadow moved out from behind a huge gum and a clear resounding voice invited them to
halt or take the consequences. With one accord the riders pulled up, one man swore violently,
and the hand of another dropped round to his belt in a hesitant manner. But Mr. Jack Bradby
had eyes like an eagle, for he cried sharply, "Put your hands up instantly!"

All the men shot their hands skywards with a precision that could not have been bettered by
weeks of training.

"You look ever so much better like that," said Mr. Jack Bradby pleasantly. "Just keep still.
I'd hate to make corpses of any of you--you all look so much better alive."

The humor of this was apparently lost on the captured ones, for they received it in silence,
much to Mr. Bradby's disgust.

"Laugh when I crack a joke!" he roared. "Laugh, all of you, damn you!"

Somebody giggled in a half-hearted manner.

"That's no sort of a laugh," snorted Mr. Bradby. "When I say laugh, I mean laugh. I don't want
you to bubble like that jackass did." He indicated the giggler with one of his ugly-looking
revolvers. "Now laugh altogether as if you meant it. One, two, three; off you go!"

They all roared at that, but there was a lack of enthusiasm in their voices. Mr. Bradby, however,
passed that over and proceeded to the business of the evening.

"Now please keep your hands in the same position," Mr. Bradby continued. "You've got quite
a lot of valuables in those saddle-bags of yours, and I'm going to annex them. And don't any
of you move a hand or foot or you'll be shot before you can say 'Jack Robinson.' There's men
in plenty in among those trees, so don't play any hanky-panky tricks if you value your lives."

The scared horsemen with one accord glanced toward the trees that fringed the road. Mr. Bradby
had stage-managed the affair with such consummate skill that they could only see the dim forms
of several horses. The shadows were cast so that it was impossible to say how many there were;
as far as the captives were concerned a regiment of cavalry might have been massed behind the
trees for all they could say to the contrary. They had a feeling that unseen eyes watched them
and invisible firearms covered their every movement. A solitary ray of moonlight, glinting
for an instant on one of Cumshaw's revolvers lent color to this suggestion, so like wise men
they surrendered to the inevitable and allowed the explosive Mr. Bradby to relieve them first
of all of their weapons, and, when he had "drawn their teeth," as he succinctly expressed it,
to rifle their saddle-bags for the little packages of gold that it was their mission to guard
with their lives. Life at all times is dearer than gold, and the men realised that they were
in a trap from which there was only one way of escape. They submitted meekly to their fate,
saw the saddle-bags rifled without a word of protest, and, deceived by the shadows, watched
what they took to be half a dozen men at least loading up with the gold. It speaks well for
the dominant personality of Mr. Bradby that no one seemed to have suspected that only two men
were concerned in the hold-up, despite the fact that they really only saw one man and the shadowy
outline of another.

"Turn round, all of you!" Mr. Bradby commanded when the transfer had been completed. "Turn
round and keep your hands in the air!"

Obediently, albeit clumsily, since they could not use their hands, the horsemen wheeled their
mounts around, and Mr. Bradby surveyed the scene with satisfaction.

"You all look nice from the rear," he remarked. "Some of you've got real fine backs. Just you
keep like that now and see what the fairies'll send you."

So silently that he might have been a disembodied spirit he turned on his heel, seized the
reins Mr. Cumshaw threw him and vaulted into the saddle. As softly as two shadows the horses
melted into the night, their muffled hoofs making no sound on the hard earth.

Ten minutes later one of the horsemen, grown tired of the unearthly inaction and suspecting
something of what had happened, slewed his head round very cautiously. In a flash he realised
the position and imparted his discovery to his companions.

"We can't follow them," the leader said. "We're unarmed. Furthermore we've got no idea which
way they went. The only thing we can do is to get back to the nearest police station and report."

The man who had first discovered the absence of the bushrangers had been employing his time
in examining the ground for traces of the gang, and very shortly he came across the tracks
that the precious pair had made earlier in the evening. An exclamation from him drew the others
to the spot. By the flickering light of a match they inspected the hoof-marks, and then the
leader of the party gave vent to a snort of disgust.

"There's only two of them," he said. "What fools we've been!"

"They completely took us in," remarked another member of the party.

"That's so," agreed a third, "but we can't make people understand. If we tell them how two
men stuck us up, we're going to look a lot of goats. I For one think we'd better keep the number
to ourselves, or, better still, we might say that there was a big party of them."

One or two demurred at this, but the bulk of the party knew well the ridicule that the truth
would attach to them, and the result was that between them a story carrying the marks of probability
was invented, and, thus armed against the laughter of the State, the party set out for the
nearest town.

In the meanwhile Bradby and Cumshaw had doubled back on their tracks and were heading for the
Grampians. Though neither of them had explored the mountains before, they were quite satisfied
from what they knew of the general formation of the country that there were gullies, even valleys,
where an army might lie hidden. So confident were the two adventurers that there was no danger
of pursuit that they did not press forward at anything like a reasonable speed. They took things
easy. Somewhere about two o'clock in the morning they halted and removed the blanket-pads from
their horses' hoofs. Mr. Cumshaw was just going to throw them into the bushes when Mr. Bradby
stopped him.

"Don't do that," he said, "we'd better destroy them outright."

"How?" queried Abel.

"Burn 'em, I should say," Mr. Bradby answered. "You make a good job of it, and you don't leave
anything behind. If you throw them away someone's sure to find them just when it's most awkward
for you. No, Abel, burn them and hurry up about it."

So it came about that presently a tiny spot of light glowed like a red warning beacon from
the lower slopes of the range. A lonely prospector, a few miles to the east, saw the spark
and wondered at it. He knew that no one lived in that part of the country. The more he thought
of it the more it puzzled him, though with the morning there came an unexpected solution.

CHAPTER II.

THE PURSUIT.

A body of mounted troopers left Ararat an hour or so before daylight the next morning, and
by seven o'clock had reached the scene of the robbery. They had with them a capable black tracker
who had figured in recent events in the Wombat Ranges. He was a silent individual who answered
to the name of "Jacky," a name that seems to be the heritage of all blacks who serve in the
police force. He quickly picked up the false scent, and the party turned east. It wasn't until
the horses stumbled over the heap of stones that some brilliant intellect dropped to the trick
that had been played on them. Then, with the better part of an hour to the bad, the party returned
to the starting-point of the trail.

"Seems to me," the sergeant in charge remarked to his subordinate, "that they've laid this
trail with a good reason. Now if a man wanted to put you on the wrong track, what would you
think he'd naturally do?"

"Send us in the opposite direction," said the other promptly.

"Quite so," said the sergeant. "Now the false trail leads east, so it's only reasonable to
suppose that they've gone west."

"That's so," the other agreed. "Get-up, you brute." The latter remark was addressed to the
horse, which showed an inclination to drop into a walk.

"Here you, Jacky!" the sergeant called, and when the black came to him he said, "Those white
men have gone this way," pointing westward. "Look out for their tracks, though I don't fancy
we'll see any for some time."

The black grunted non-committally. He had much the same idea himself, though he could not understand
how the white man had guessed. Still he knew enough of the white men to realise that they were
very, very clever, and sometimes found out things that even the black trackers did not understand.
The black went back to his work in silence. Presently he grunted again. His quick eyes had
noticed a grey woollen thread stamped into the earth. He lifted it gingerly up in his hand
and held it out to the police. The sergeant took it, examined it carefully, and then, without
any comment, handed it round to the others. There was no need to ask what it meant. All knew
without being told that someone had lately passed that way, and who could that someone be unless
one of the rangers?

The black went back again to the trail, bending down close to the ground for all the world
like a little dog following the scent of the chase. He turned sharply off into the bushes and
the troop went after him. Here and there--wherever the earth had chanced to be a little softer
than usual--one could see round depressions somewhat about the size of a saucer, and one patch
of damp soil gave a remarkably clear imprint of the fibres of some material.

"Clever chaps, by George!" the sergeant remarked. "They've got brains among them."

"How's that?" queried one of the police.

"They've tried the old duffers' dodge of blanketing the horses' hoofs. Sort of thing that works,
too, unless a man happens to have his eyes well open. Luckily I've stumbled up against this
sort of thing before."

The other man, who had his own ideas about the matter, nodded his head, but otherwise made
no comment.

About ten o'clock the troopers debouched from the trees into a low-lying stretch of land. One
could not call it a gully; it was more of a depression, a fault in the earth due to some local
subsidence. On the nearest ridge a prospector's hut was perched, from the chimney of which
a wisp of smoke ascended. When one of the mounted men dropped from the saddle and opened the
door he found no one in charge, though a dinner was merrily simmering away on the fire.

"Whoever he is he can't be far away," the sergeant commented. "He wouldn't leave his dinner
unless he was handy. Have a look for him, boys. He might be able to tell us something."

The men scattered in different directions down the depression, and presently a shout from one
of them announced that the prospector had been found. He came toiling slowly up the slope,
side by side with his discoverer. He was a small wiry man, with a heavy iron-grey beard, and
his age, as well as one could guess, was something near to sixty.

"You don't happen to have seen a body of men, horsemen, passing this way late last night or
early this morning?" the sergeant queried.

"Nobody passed this way last night," the man answered in a colorless voice. "Why?"

"A gold escort was robbed yesterday evening," the sergeant said, "and we've got information
that the robbers came this way."

The man turned slowly and studied the lower slopes of the distant range. He saw, or seemed
to see, something that interested him, and he stared so long that the sergeant said impatiently,
"Well, what about it?"

"I was just wondering," said the little man in the same colorless voice. "I was just wondering
if that was them."

"If who was?" the sergeant demanded. "Out with it, man, and don't keep us waiting all day."

"Last night," said the man distinctly, "there was a fire up on those ranges. It wasn't a bush-fire.
I know a bush-fire. It was just a tiny little glow from here. I thought it was a fire showing
through the open door of a hut, until I remembered that nobody lived up there. It didn't last
long; it must have burnt out in ten minutes or so, so I knew that it was started by some traveller.
It wasn't a camp-fire and they weren't cooking anything."

"How do you know that?" the sergeant said quickly.

"How do I know that?" the little man repeated slowly. "It's easy enough. The fire was only
alight ten minutes at the most, and you can't cook anything or boil a billy in that time, I know."

"The old chap's right," one of the troopers said in an undertone to his superior.

The sergeant nodded. He turned again to the old prospector. "You're sure you didn't see anyone
pass this way?" he queried.

"No, I'm not sure," said the man. "I'm only saying that I didn't hear anyone."

"What do you mean by saying you're not sure that you didn't see anyone?" the sergeant asked
curiously.

"When there's shadows in the trees," said the old man, "there's times when you can't tell whether
they're men or not. That's what I mean. I'm only saying that I didn't hear anyone. I'd have
heard horses."

"The man's a hatter," the sergeant remarked as the troop galloped off towards the ranges. "As
mad as a March hare."

The other grinned cheerfully. "Still there's a lot in what he said," he answered. "Now that
about the fire----"

"I wonder why they lighted it," the sergeant cut-in.

"Don't know," the other said. "What's the sense of worrying anyway? We'll know soon enough.
But don't you think we should have brought the old chap along with us?"

The sergeant shook his head. "What'd be the good?" he said. "He couldn't do any more than he's
done already."

He swung round in his saddle and faced the troop. "Now, men," he said, "we've got to put our
best foot foremost. Those 'rangers are somewhere ahead of us, making for the mountains. Keep
your eyes skinned, for you never know the minute we'll catch up to them. They can't have such
a big start of us, and they're heavily loaded at that."

The troopers unslung their carbines and examined the loading, then, satisfied that every preparation
had been made, they set spurs to their horses and cantered up the track that led to the ranges.

It was Mr. Abel Cumshaw who first discovered the pursuers. Early in the afternoon the two men
commenced to ascend the mountains proper. Just before they disappeared into the belt of timber
that fringed the slopes the younger man turned in his saddle and cast one last backward glance
at the valley they had left beneath them. Far away below them, in among the misty shapes of
the distant trees, he caught a glimpse of a collection of dark little dots whose unfamiliar
look puzzled him. He called Mr. Bradby's attention to them, and that gentleman glanced at them
in an offhand way and pronounced them to be kangaroos.

"Come on," he added in a different tone. "Hurry up with you there!"

Mr. Cumshaw had no intention of moving until he was fully satisfied in his own mind that the
little black dots were really kangaroos. Something seemed to whisper that they weren't.

"They're not kangaroos," he said with conviction. He had caught the glint of sunlight on metal,
a brass button of a man's uniform, or perhaps the polished barrel of a carbine.

"Oh," said Mr. Bradby, "so you've tumbled."

"They're police," Mr. Cumshaw stated. "That's what they are."

"Didn't you know that, Abel? I guessed it as soon as I saw them. I'd never confuse a trooper
with a kangaroo. I only said that to--well, I didn't want to scare you unnecessarily."

"You needn't be afraid of that," said Mr. Cumshaw airily. "I'm in the game for good or ill,
and I'm taking all risks equally with you. It's as much my funeral as yours."

"It doesn't matter whose funeral it is," Jack Bradby said impatiently. "We've got to get away
and do it smart. You must remember that neither of us knows anything at all about this country,
and it's ten to one that those infernal police have got a black tracker or some other imp of
Satan who'll be able to follow us, even if we left as little trace as so many flies."

"Where are we heading for anyway?" Abel Cumshaw enquired as he spurred his horse alongside
his companion's.

"That's more than I can say," Bradby retorted. "If we'd had any gumption we'd have explored
the place before we took on this last job. But we hadn't the time, and that's all there is
to say about it. It's my impression that this section of the State is as full of hiding-places
as ever the Blue Mountains or the Wombats were. If we only keep up this spurt of ours we'll
make a gully or a valley where we can hide for months without a soul being a whit the wiser."

"I hope so," said Cumshaw, in the manner of a man who has very grave doubts.

"Hold your breath for your work," Mr. Bradby advised. "You might need it all yet."

They had made good headway by this, and the path that they had picked out took them every hour
deeper into the unexplored heart of the country. On every side of them stretched the unbroken
fastnesses of the primeval wilderness, sheer precipices dropping suddenly into infinite space,
jagged peaks towering dizzily into the misty vault of heaven, quaintly situated valleys so
masked by timber and brushwood that one came across them only by accident. There is something
in the naked face of Nature, in the sheer magnificence of incredible heights and the marvellous
massiveness of big timber that somehow dwarfs man into insignificance and makes him realise
the puniness of his strength. There was something in the scenes now opening up before the rangers
that subdued them and beat them into silence. There was beauty in the sight, the soft eternal
beauty of an unravished land, but over and above that was the suggestion that the travellers
were fighting not merely against their kind but against the untrammelled forces of an all-powerful
wilderness.

The time was early December, and the golden wattle in full bloom. From end to end the ranges
were a blaze of color, near at hand deep gold, fading away in the distance into that hazy blue-grey
peculiar to Australian mountains. Hour by hour the men rode on in silence, at times galloping
down the slopes, at others crawling slowly and painfully up hills that stretched apparently
to heaven, hills that yet dropped suddenly into space when one had almost given up all hope
of ever reaching the summit.

They had lost all sight of the pursuers, though once Bradby caught a glimpse of smoke far away
to the east, smoke that he fancied came from the mid-day fire of the troopers.

They halted at sunset in the shadow of a clump of red gums and made the first meal since morning.
As a result of a hurried consultation they decided to press on until midnight. But the horses
were wearied with the rough and constant travelling, and it took the better part of two hours
for them to cover a little under three miles.

"They've got to have a rest and so have we," Bradby said finally. "The pace is killing, and
I'm quite satisfied that the police are taking it fairly easy. We've got scared over nothing.
They might not even be on our track. At any rate I suggest we finish for the night and get
what sleep we can."

Abel Cumshaw raised no objection to this--as a matter of fact he was almost falling from his
mount out of sheer saddle-weariness--so a halt was called, the horses were unsaddled, the men
unrolled their blankets and settled down to slumber just as the silver ghost of the moon flooded
the place with its cool white light.

It was broad daylight when they awoke, and the sun was already high up in the heavens.

"Somewhere about nine or ten o'clock," Cumshaw guessed. "We've slept in, Jack."

Bradby ruefully admitted that this was so, but excused it on the ground that they would be
better fitted for the day's work.

"I'm hanged if I like this game," Cumshaw growled as they made a meagre breakfast on almost
the last of their rations. "The food's running short, and it's only a matter of time until
they wear us down. You know what it means for us, Jack, if they catch us with the gold. Now
I've got an idea, and if we carry it out I see a chance of escaping scot-free. The gold's weighing
us down, so what we've got to do is to get rid of it."

"You're surely not going to throw it away after all we've gone through," said Bradby, aghast
at the proposal.

"No, I'm not," Cumshaw told him. "What I suggest is that we hide it somewhere handy, make a
note of the spot, and then clear out of this particular section for a time. We can easily keep
afloat for a couple of months, and when the hue and cry has died down, we can come back and
dig it up at our leisure. We'll gain nothing by sticking to it now and we'll run a chance of
losing everything."

"Not a bad idea," Bradby agreed. "But the trouble's to find a suitable spot."

"We passed dozens of such places already, Jack. We're just as likely to strike something as
good or even better during the course of the day. The whole country-side is honeycombed with
hiding-places; it's like a rabbit-warren."

"There's nothing like being an optimist," Bradby said. "Have it your way, Abel. Now the sooner
you find some nice secure little spot the better for us, I'm thinking. For one thing the food's
running short, as you just remarked, and for another I don't intend keeping up this dodging
game for ever. We can't last; they'll wear us down."

"That's supposing they don't get tired and go home," said the cheerful Mr. Cumshaw.

"Not much chance of that," Mr. Bradby retorted. "I only wish they would."

During the morning Bradby's horse developed lameness, and, though the two men slackened the
pace in order to give it every chance, by mid-day it could barely limp along.

"This won't do," said Bradby in despair. "We're losing time we can ill afford. All the same
this old crock'll have to struggle on until nightfall, and then we'll see whether we'll have
to shoot it."

"I don't like shooting a horse," Cumshaw remarked. "It's like murder."

Bradby's only answer was a muttered oath. The trials of the Journey were bringing out the worst
side of the man, a side that Cumshaw had never seen before. He eyed his companion thoughtfully.
If the wilderness was to get on Bradby's nerves at this early stage, Cumshaw could see that
there was likely to be very serious trouble before the end came. The air in the highlands was
laden with a freshness which, while it stung the men to action, at the same time put a keen
edge on their tempers. Both of them were children of the warm, sun-kissed lowlands, and the
difference of even a few degrees of temperature had a remarkable effect on them. With Abel
Cumshaw it was such as to send a warm glow into his cheeks; the cold bite of the air made his
blood sparkle like new wine and urged him on to fresh efforts. It affected Mr. Bradby in another
and a worse way. He became sullen, and there was a certain marked vindictiveness in the way
he spurred his lame horse on to exertions that were plainly too much for it. Once or twice
Abel was on the point of remonstrating with him, but for the sake of peace he held his tongue
and waited, in the hope that the day would bring forth some measure of relief. But nothing
happened that morning, and the hope died within him.

Late that day, when the pace had slowed down almost to a crawl, they stumbled across the place
by the simplest kind of accident. They had been dropping down to lower levels the greater part
of the day, and somewhere about three o'clock in the afternoon--they were not quite sure of
the hour, since the sun was masked by the trees--they found themselves in what looked like
a narrow gully. Both sides of it were lined with thick bushes of golden wattle that shut out
all view on either hand. There were shadows galore in this narrow gully, and the place itself
looked almost as dark as the entrance to the Pit. Cumshaw, who had a classical education and
had not been able to forget it, any more than the fact that he had once been a gentleman, murmured
under his breath.

"What's that?" Bradby asked sharply.

Cumshaw repeated his quotation. "Facilis est descensus Averno," he said.

"What does that mean?" Bradby enquired, in the tone of a man who imagines he is being insulted
in a language he does not understand.

"It's easy to go to hell," Cumshaw translated.

Bradby shot one sharp curious glance at him, but made no comment on what he had said. They
rode on in silence.

Presently they came to a patch of ground that had been broken by the wind or the rain, or perhaps
both together. The shadows so fell that the travellers did not realise the treacherous nature
of the soil until they were right in the middle of it. Cumshaw's horse floundered and would
have fallen on its knees had he not reined in sharply. This caused him to cannon into his companion's
mount. Bradby pulled back sharply, in some way jarring his animal's sore leg as he did so.
It reared up on its haunches with the pain, and in the most approved manner bucked its rider
off. He shot up in the air, described a beautiful half-circle, and sailed through the barrier
of wattle like a human projectile.

Cumshaw slipped off his horse with the quickness of thought. He had enough presence of mind
to tether both his own and Bradby's mount, and then he cautiously parted the bushes. For the
moment he could see nothing but a great wall of golden blossoms, and then out of the depths
came Bradby's furious voice. He was cursing the horse and the slope and everything and everyone
within hearing in the simple and forceful fashion of the Australian bushman.

Cumshaw called to him and was answered with an oath.

"Where are you?" he repeated.

"Down here," said the voice, this time modifying its language. "Step carefully or you'll come
a cropper."

Mr. Cumshaw pulled the bushes apart and found that he was standing on the verge of a sheer descent.

"Mind your eye," said the voice of the still invisible Mr. Bradby. "I've found the very place
we've been looking for."

CHAPTER III.

THE HIDDEN VALLEY.

Abel Cumshaw caught at the bushes to save himself from slipping and turned a curious eye on
the scene before him. Really there wasn't very much for him to see. Bradby had fallen into
a miniature valley so small that it looked like the creation of a child. The place was heavily
timbered, and almost all definable features were masked beneath the trees. Abel saw even in
the first glance that here was just that ideal hiding-place for which they had been searching.
Softly and cautiously he commenced to descend. The slope was slippery with green grass, and
he finished the last few yards with a run. He came down amongst a lot of bracken and fern,
and suffered no worse harm than the shock of a sudden stoppage. Mr. Bradby, he saw, was sitting
almost buried in a mass of bracken, and looking much cheerier than his recent utterance would
seem to suggest.

"Are you hurt?" Cumshaw asked him. He held out a helping hand. Mr. Bradby struggled to his
feet and smiled at his questioner.

"Hurt? No," he said. "Only surprised. Why, Abel, here's the very place we want. We could hide
here for years, and they could be scouring the country for us, and them not a penny the wiser.
That tumble of mine was just the luckiest thing imaginable. You talk about falling into hell!
Why, man, we've fallen into heaven, and if we don't make the best use we can of the place we're
the biggest duffers alive."

"How are we to get the horses down here?" queried the practical Mr. Cumshaw.

Mr. Bradby eyed the slope down which he had come so precipitately, and then pursed up his lips.

"It don't look so easy from here," he said at length. "And from what I can see this place is
walled in all round."

"Whether it is or not," said Cumshaw, "we've got to get those horses down, and get them down
at once."

"But how?"

"That's what we've got to find out," said Cumshaw. And with that he commenced to climb up the
slope again. It was hard work, much harder than coming down, but in the end he managed it.
When he reached the top he turned, to find that Bradby was almost at his heels. He surveyed
the place with the eye of a trained bushman; then he said, "We can manage it, Jack. It's a
case of sliding them down, but once we get them started they'll go right enough."

"We'll give it a try," said Mr. Bradby. His usual good humor was fast re-asserting itself now
that they had reached a haven of comparative safety, and he was ready to try any scheme that
promised even the smallest chance of success.

Without wasting any further words on the matter the two men scrambled through the bushes and
made their way towards the horses. The lame animal had quite recovered from its fright, and
suffered its owner to lead it up the slight rise to the wattles, though there it drew back
as if conscious of the drop beneath. But by dint of prodding and coaxing Bradby forced it through
the crackling brush, and then, with a wild whinny of fear, it lost its footing and slid down
the slope in an avalanche of grass and twigs. Cumshaw's mount made the descent in fine style,
and the two men followed.

"Now," said Bradby, when they stood once more on level ground, "the further we get into this
timber the better, I say. I don't suppose any passer-by would be likely to notice that we've
come down here, do you?"

"All things considered," Mr. Cumshaw said slowly, "we've made little mess. We've got to thank
that grassy slope for that. If it had been dry earth there'd have been tracks enough in all
conscience. Yes, I think we can reasonably say that we've no need to fear anything--unless
accidents."

As near as they could judge the valley was about a mile across at its widest, but it merged
so gently into the further side of the ranges that it was almost impossible to say exactly.
The wood grew thicker as the men advanced, until presently it was with difficulty that they
could make their way forward.

"Getting pretty close," Bradby said at length.

Cumshaw nodded. He was too busy thinking over certain little peculiarities of the wood to take
much notice of his companion's remarks. His quick eye had seen little cuts in the trees, bits
of bark that had been chipped off here and there, and the sight set him wondering. The cuts
were curiously like the blazing of a trail. They were regular, they were all about the same
height on the tree-trunks, and they looked as if they had been made with an axe, not the crude
stone weapon of an aborigine, but the sharp steel axe of a white man. Yet the place seemed
deserted, and in all the air was that sense of utter desolation and absence of life that only
those who have lived close to Nature can feel and understand.

"We're not the first here," Cumshaw said suddenly.

Bradby turned on him in alarm. "What d'y' mean?" he asked indistinctly.

"Some of the trees are blazed," Cumshaw pointed out. "The cuts are clean, and that means they've
been done with an axe. But they're all weather-worn, so it must have been some time ago."

"I don't like the look of it all the same," Bradby said despondently. "It means that someone
else has stumbled on this place--it doesn't matter much whether it was yesterday or ten years
ago--and what has been done before will almost certainly be done again. If those troopers come
this way----"

"What's the good of crossing the bridge before you come to it?" Cumshaw interrupted. "We've
been lucky so far, and who's to say our luck won't hold out till the end?"

"It's the end I'm looking at," Bradby said gloomily. "It might be the sort of end neither of
us'd fancy."

Mr. Cumshaw made no immediate reply. He was peering very intently through the boles of the
trees as if he was not quite sure that what he saw was really there.

"What are you looking at?" Bradby demanded irritably.

"If that's not a bit of a clearing and a hut on the edge of it, I'm a lunatic," Abel Cumshaw said.

"Hell!" ejaculated Bradby, and he in his turn peered through the trees.

"There's no smoke coming from it," Cumshaw said comfortingly. "It looks deserted. I daresay
it's been like that for years."

"I don't like this place," Bradby remarked with naive irrelevance. "It fair gives me the creeps.
There's spooks about here."

"If you talk that way," said Cumshaw fiercely, "I'll put a bullet through you. That sort of
talk's only fit for children. You're not a child. You ought to have more sense. There's things
here doubtless that you and I don't understand, but they're quite capable of a rational explanation,
so don't go digging up any stuff about ghosts until you find you can't explain them any other
way. There's the hut in front of us, and either there's someone in it or there isn't. If there
is, we've got to use our wits; if there isn't, the game's ours."

"Have it your own way," said Bradby. "I'm game enough when I know what I'm tackling. I only
mentioned I didn't like the feel of the place, and I don't see that that gives you any call
to say what you have."

"We'll call it off until we've investigated," Cumshaw replied. "You stay here with the horses,
and I'll creep forward a bit and see if anyone's home. All the same, I'm willing to bet that
the place's deserted."

"Maybe it is and maybe it isn't," suggested Bradby. "However, you go off as you say and I'll
wait here for you."

Abel Cumshaw threw the reins to his companion, slid his revolver holsters round to the front
within easy reach, should he need the weapons they contained, and slipped through the trees
with the silence of a marauding tom-cat. Bradby watched him with some misgiving. No man could
say with certainty just what secret the dilapidated hut held, and Bradby's state of mind was
such that he took the gloomier view of the situation. He would not have been very much surprised
to see half a dozen troopers issue from the hut. He would have taken it as the inevitable ending
of such an adventure. He failed to understand the natural cheerfulness with which Cumshaw faced
the situation. He was bright and volatile enough himself when dealing with the ordinary man--his
courage was of that average quality that is always at its best when exercised before an admiring
or frightened audience--but the abnormal brought home to him his own futility of purpose and
his natural helplessness. While realising all this he was not man enough to rise above and
overcome the limitations of his spirit.

Cumshaw swung round the corner of the hut and out of sight. Then it was that Bradby began to
feel absolutely deserted, and the queer oppressiveness of the place descended on him as one
shuts down the lid of a box. He was not the type of man who finds companionship in animals,
and the nearness of the horses in nowise mitigated his fear. For he was afraid, unashamedly
afraid, though of what he could no more have said than he could fly. He knew without understanding
how the knowledge came to him that the valley was filled with the ghosts of dead things, dead
trees, dead leaves, and perhaps dead hopes. His nerve was going; the intolerably close atmosphere
of the wood brought little beads of perspiration out on him, and when he brushed his forehead
with a trembling hand he was surprised to find it wet.

The horses stirred uneasily, and the lame animal gave a low whinny.

Then in the next instant the eternal silence of the valley was broken by a human voice. The
suddenness of it startled Bradby, and it wasn't until he saw Cumshaw waving to him that he
realised that the sound he had heard was his companion's "Coo-ee." He loosed his hold on the
reins, allowing the two horses to wander where they might, and commenced to run towards the
hut. Even as he ran his faculties collected themselves, and when he reached the corner of the
hut he was almost his own man again.

Cumshaw eyed him curiously as he pulled up. "Startled you a bit, didn't I?" he said.

"I thought something had happened to you when I heard you call," Bradby answered, a trifle
untruthfully.

"Don't you worry about me," Cumshaw said with affected unconcern, though something in the man's
nervous tone troubled him in a way he could not define. "I've found the old chap who made the
marks on the trees," he ran on.

"Where?" Bradby demanded. But he looked towards the hut-door apprehensively.

"He's in there," Cumshaw said, following the other's glance, "but there isn't anything to worry
about. He's as dead as a door-nail."

"Dead," Bradby repeated dazedly.

Cumshaw nodded. "This many a day," he said in semi-explanation. "But come in and see what there
is to be seen."

As if perfectly sure of his companion's acquiescence he turned and walked into the hut. After
a moment's hesitation Bradby followed. The place smelt a trifle musty, and all the air was
full of the subtle reek of decay. It was rather dim in the hut, and at first Mr. Bradby could
see nothing but some indefinite shapes that might be anything at all. Gradually his eyes accustomed
themselves to the gloom, and in the farthest corner he spied a rough bed of planks.

"That's him," said Mr. Cumshaw irreverently, and stirred something with his foot.

Mr. Bradby looked a little closer this time. The something that Cumshaw had stirred turned
out to be the whitened skeleton of a man. The hideous thing about it was that it was not stretched
out on the plank bed; it was propped up, as if the man had died while sitting. A rusted gun
lay in line with the thing's left thigh, and Bradby, following the muzzle with a trained eye,
saw that it was pointed at the man's head.

"Suicide," said Cumshaw. "Look at his head. He's blown out what little brains he had."

He was right. The frontal bones of the skull were shattered and twisted by the force of the
charge; they gave the rest of the face a ghastly, leering look which turned Bradby physically
sick. The other man was evidently troubled by no such qualms, for he loosened the gun from
the bony hand that had clung to it so desperately through all those years, and tumbled the
skeleton itself on to the plank bed.

"I'm going outside," said Mr. Bradby suddenly, and disappeared through the doorway with suspicious
alacrity.

Mr. Cumshaw laughed softly. "Weak stomach," he murmured. "Well, someone's got to clear this
old chap out, and, as it's certain to be me, I might as well do it first as last."

At that he gathered the white, clean-picked bones up in his arms, carried his burden through
the doorway, and deposited it carefully on the grass outside the hut. His eye lighted on Mr.
Bradby, who was sitting on the ground some distance away, looking very pale, and having all
the appearance of a man who had reluctantly parted with his lunch.

"What the deuce are you doing?" he asked in tones that betrayed a certain amount of trepidation
not unmixed with vague horror.

"Evicting the late tenant," Mr. Cumshaw grinned with cheerful inconsequence.

"Why?"

There was more than a question in the quick monosyllable. It contained also a hint of protest.

"Because we're going to camp inside the hut, and two's company and three's more of a crowd
than I like. This old chap can stop out here for the night; I don't suppose he'll mind it much.
If he's gone to the Abode of the Blessed he'll be above worrying over such mundane matters,
and if he's anywhere else he'll be too much occupied to do anything but attend to the burnt spots."

"You shouldn't speak like that of the dead," Bradby said solemnly. "It's not right."

"If we stopped to consider whether a thing was right or wrong before we did it," Cumshaw retorted,
"you and I wouldn't be here this evening. If you're wise, you'll leave all that talk till morning.
The shadows are closing in, and we'll have the night on us before we know where we are. I'd
suggest that we catch the horses while the light's still good. You must remember they've got
those saddle-bags on them still. Of course, there's just enough food to make a meal for a pair
of small-sized tom-cats, but I fancy we'll manage on it till morning. Who knows what we may
find then? Perhaps a kangaroo, or at the worst a native-bear."

Bradby rose reluctantly to his feet, and, with a nervous glance at the remains of the unknown,
followed his partner in crime. The horses had not strayed far; they were busily cropping the
grass, and seemed quite content with their lot. The two men unloaded the saddle-bags and carried
the contents into the hut. Then they hobbled the horses and turned them loose for the night.

The shadows were gathering in by this, and already the trees were full of misty shapes that
had no relation to fact. The bulk of the hills shut out the last rays of the sun, though the
western sky was still faintly tinged with crimson. Just as they entered the hut Cumshaw paused
for a moment and ran his eye over the scene. The place seemed peaceful enough, but he had that
queer sense of the bushman, a sense almost amounting to an instinct, that told him that there
was trouble ahead. He shook the feeling off almost immediately and entered the hut. Bradby,
despite his dislike of the conglomeration of bones on the grass outside, lingered a second
or so longer. There was a light in the eastern sky, perhaps a faint reflection of the glow
of the dying day, that lit up the hump of the nearest hill. It was practically bare of vegetation;
only a solitary tree stood a lone sentinel on its very summit, showing black against the horizon.

The thought that sprung into Bradby's mind at that was that here was a landmark which there
could be no possibility of mistaking. Already certain plans were germinating in his brain,
and he saw, or fancied he saw, a way of turning this latest discovery to practical use. The
bleached bones in front of him, too, became a means to an end, and, with the smile of a man
who sees the way suddenly made clear, he too entered the hut in his turn.

Cumshaw was busily engaged in laying a fire in the centre of the hut, taking care, however,
that its glow would not show through the open doorway. He looked up as Bradby entered and said,
"I think we're safe in starting a fire here. It can't be seen by anyone crossing the hills,
though there isn't much likelihood of that, and all the smoke we make won't do us any harm.
There's always a certain amount of mist in a place like this, and a man a mile away wouldn't
be able to tell the difference."

"Go ahead," said Mr. Bradby quietly. "You know what you are doing."

The compliment in the last remark was desperately like an insult, but Cumshaw did not seem
to notice anything out of the way, for he bent down to his work and whistled cheerfully while
he coaxed the fire into a blaze. Presently it was burning brightly, the billy was filled with
water from the water-bottle, and tea was in a fair way of being prepared. "Great place, this,"
Cumshaw said presently.

"Great place," Mr. Bradby assented. "A man can die here without anyone being any the wiser."

Mr. Cumshaw made no reply to that, but the corners of his mouth tightened as if he suspected
some hidden meaning beneath that smooth remark.

CHAPTER IV.

WHEN THIEVES FALL OUT.

Just as the first rays of the rising sun slanted into the hut Mr. Bradby stirred uneasily,
threw out one arm, rolled over on his side, and in an instant was wide-awake. He sat up abruptly
and gazed around. Abel Cumshaw was still sleeping peacefully, his head pillowed on the saddle-bags
that contained the plunder. Mr. Bradby smiled grimly at the sight. Softly, without waking his
companion, he rose from his rough bed and glided to the open doorway. He stood there for a
moment, drinking in the fresh morning air.

The sun was just coming up behind the solitary tree that had so interested him the previous
evening, and he noticed that from his position in the dead-centre of the doorway the sun and
the tree were right in line. Again that curious, humorless smile flickered about the corners
of his mouth. He stood meditating for a minute or so, then, with an assumption of carelessness
that he did not feel, began pacing due east. He had not taken half a dozen strides before he
turned at right angles to his previous course, and just as nonchalantly continued his stroll
northward. This time he covered about double the distance, then stopped short and scratched
a cross on the ground with the toe of his boot.

When he returned to the hut Abel Cumshaw was just getting up.

"Hallo, Jack," he greeted Bradby. "Been stirring long?"

"No," said Bradby shortly. Then, perhaps fancying his tone was a little too abrupt, he continued,
"I've just been for a bit of a tour round."

"What do you think of the place?" Cumshaw asked casually. But he did not look up at his mate;
he kept his eyes studiously on the ground.

"Just the sort of place we could make our headquarters," said Bradby, with an enthusiasm that
even the forced restraint of his tone could not hide.

"I don't think we'll have much need of headquarters once this is over and done with," Cumshaw
hinted.

"Maybe not," Bradby replied.

Cumshaw turned to the plank bed and lifted up the saddle-bags, one in each hand. "Don't you
think we should get rid of these?" he remarked.

"I'd almost forgotten about them," Bradby answered with an assumed indifference. "Yes, we'll
'tend to them as soon as we've had something to eat."

"While you're talking about something to eat," Cumshaw told him, putting the bags down again,
"I'd like to remind you that we're right on the last of the tucker. There's just enough flour
for the day."

"I wouldn't worry about that," Bradby said. "There's sure to be plenty of game about in a thickly-wooded
country like this."

Cumshaw nodded and dropped on his knees beside the embers of the evening's fire. In a few moments
he was busy coaxing them into a blaze. Bradby stood behind him, watching the sweep of his shoulders
with calculating eyes. Once his hand strayed almost unconsciously towards his revolver, then,
with a gesture, half of horror, half of dismay, at the significance of his action, he twisted
on his heel and strode to the door. He turned then, blocking the light with his figure, so
that his face was just a black expressionless mask.

"It wouldn't be a bad idea," he suggested, "if I looked about for a likely spot to bury that
stuff."

"Go ahead," said Cumshaw coolly, as if it were the most natural suggestion in the world.

Without further parley Bradby walked over to the spot he had marked earlier in the morning.
Bending down, he commenced to dig in the soft soil with the point of his sheath-knife. The
ground was easily enough worked, and in less than half an hour he had excavated a hole of close
on to three feet in depth. He deepened it another six inches or so, and then stood up with
a smile of the utmost complacency on his face.

"Nice spot you've chosen," said a voice at his elbow. He started at the sound. He had not heard
Cumshaw approach, and the idea that his mate could come and go in such absolute silence filled
him with dismay. Already the gold fever had seized hold of him and made him suspicious of every
untoward move. Perhaps he fancied that some similar plan to his own was evolving in Cumshaw's
brain.

"Yes, it is a nice spot," he answered. "It's easy enough to find once you know where it is,
but it isn't the kind of place a stranger would blunder on."

Cumshaw eyed the hole in the ground, and then looked towards the hut, as if taking his bearings.
Bradby noticed him and interposed hastily, "I've got the measurement of the place. Have you
a piece of paper I can write it down on?"

Cumshaw ran hastily through his pockets. "I haven't a bit," he declared.

"Neither have I," said Bradby. "However, we'll have to keep it in our heads. It's just ten
feet from here to the hut-door."

"It doesn't look it," Cumshaw said promptly.

"It doesn't," his mate agreed. "But distance is deceptive here. How's the meal going?"

"Just about ready," Cumshaw told him. "I came to call you."

The two men walked side by side to the hut. At the entrance Cumshaw paused. "Nearer fourteen
than ten," he said thoughtfully.

"Very likely," said Bradby indifferently. "What about that meal? I'm as hungry as a hunter."

They were on short commons. Bradby ate heartily, remarking once that there'd be food enough
to go round to-morrow. Cumshaw laughed and said he hoped so, but that to-morrow was a day that
never came to some people. Bradby absently ignored the challenge in Cumshaw's reply and kept
silence for the rest of the time.

After breakfast the two of them took the saddle-bags down to the hole, placed them inside,
and then stamped the earth tightly down on top of them.

"Now that's done," said Bradby, with an air of relief, "the sooner we get out of here the better."

"How about old bones over there?" Cumshaw said, pointing to the skeleton.

"Better sling him into the bushes," Bradby suggested, all his superstitious fears vanishing
now that it was broad daylight.

"Poor old sinner," said Cumshaw as he lifted up the remains in his strong arms. "It might just
as easily be one of us."

"Don't talk like that!" Bradby cried. "It's tempting Providence."

"You and I, Jack, have tempted that same all the days of our lives, and we're likely to keep
on until the end, so why growl about this particular incident?"

Bradby muttered something unintelligible, and Cumshaw, who was all for haste now that their
work was finished, did not ask him to repeat his remark.

Both horses had cropped their fill of grass, and the lame one seemed slightly better. Its limp
was not so pronounced and the swelling had gone down.

"It's out of the question getting them out the way we got them in," Cumshaw said. "I wonder
if there's any other way."

"Nothing like having a try," Bradby advised. "That darned old hermit must have come in some
way, and I don't reckon it was the way we came in. If I was you I'd try over there towards
the west. The hills look low enough."

So they turned off at right angles to their path and presently were edging their way through
the wood again. As Bradby had surmised, the ground rose steadily, though it was very rough.
Big boulders lay about the ground amongst the trees, which were thinning off. Soon they emerged
on to what was open country, and speedily found themselves right under a ledge of rock which
rose sheerly above their heads to a height of twenty or thirty feet.

"Blocked!" said Bradby savagely.

"No," said Cumshaw in a tone that implied he refused to acknowledge defeat. "There must be
some way out, Jack, and I'm going to look until I find it. Here, you take charge of the horses
and I'll fossick out something."

He was gone for ten minutes, ten long minutes that Bradby occupied in cursing the valley in
particular and the rest of the world in general. Then there came a cry from the height above
him, and, looking up, he saw Abel Cumshaw waving to him. Next instant the man disappeared and
a few seconds later swung down through the rocks.

"It's no use," he said. "We can't take the horses out here. We'll just have to leave them.
A man can crawl up through a sort of funnel in the wall of the rock, but you'd want a sling
to get the horses along."

"Can't we go back and try the way we came in?"

Cumshaw shook his head decisively. "No," he said. "It won't do to risk it. They just tumbled
down yesterday when we brought them, but you must remember that we had to cling on with our
hands and feet when we went back. We'll have to jettison the horses."

"You said it was murder yesterday when I suggested shooting them," Bradby reminded him.

"We had a chance of saving them then," Cumshaw argued, "but now it's either them or us. If
we turn them loose, the police'll find them sooner or later. If we shoot them, it's over and
done with, and even if anyone does wander in here by accident he's not going to come this way.
If we let them roam about the valley, they naturally go over to the other side where the grass
is, and the first fool that blundered in would see them and begin to wonder how they got there.
You never want to give the other man food for thought, Jack. Once he starts thinking, it's
only a matter of time until he noses out everything."

"Shoot the horses, Abel, and have done with it. I'm sick and tired of talking. It's high time
we did something."

The horses were shot then and there as the easiest way out of it, and when the echoes had died
away the two men crawled cautiously up the funnel-like opening in the rock. Footholds were
precarious enough, but by dint of hanging on by teeth and claw the partners at length forced
their way to the top and stood on the ledge that overhung the valley. Across the smoky sea
of timber they caught sight of the long line of golden wattle through which they had broken
their way the previous evening. It occurred to both in almost the same instant that no man
would be very likely to blunder in by chance. The place was securely hidden from view on three
sides at least, and on the fourth, the side where they now stood, the approach was so difficult
and, as they learnt later, dangerous that a man must have some very good reason for attempting
it. Cumshaw it was who first put his thoughts into words.

"I can't help thinking," he said, "that the old chap must have come over from this side. Most
likely he was dodging someone."

"I wouldn't be surprised at that," said the other.

"I don't think he'd have found the other way in a month of Sundays. However, let's get along.
We'll have to make haste now we're without horses, What's it to be? Riverina or Adelaide?"

"I favor the Riverina," Cumshaw said. "I'm more familiar with the country, and they've got
nothing against me up there."

"Riverina it is then," Bradby agreed with a laugh. "All places are the same to me. I've no
more liking for one than for another."

So it came about that the valley faded away into the dim distance south of them, and presently
they were toiling across the barrier of mountains that cuts Northern Victoria off from the
rest of the State.

The tragedy happened that evening. An hour or so before sunset they decided to camp hard by
a little creek they had just discovered. Cumshaw, as usual, tended to the fire, and Bradby,
after idling about for a while, suggested that he had better go hunting, in the hope of being
able to obtain fresh meat for the meal.

"All right," said Cumshaw. "Go ahead. But don't be any longer than you can help."

"I'll be back as soon as I can," Bradby answered, and slipped into the shadows that were already
gathering thick and fast. Abel Cumshaw worked away, whistling softly to himself the while.
He was so busy doing one thing and another that it was not until darkness fell suddenly and
completely on the scene that he realised how quickly time had passed. His first thought then
was that Bradby was away much longer than he had any right to be. It occurred to him that Bradby
might have gone much further than he intended and by some mischance had lost his way. He decided
to wait a while longer, and then, if Bradby did not appear in the meantime, to go in search
of him. But the time passed, the fire died away to red hot coals, and the shadows fell thickly
on everything; but still Bradby did not come. At last Cumshaw rose swiftly to his feet in the
manner of a man who has decided on the course he must take and means to stick to it unswervingly.
With quick yet noiseless steps he stole through the trees, occasionally swinging a sharp glance
to the left or right. But it was very dark in the woods, and it was impossible to tell shape
from shadow. A regiment might have been hiding behind the boles of the trees without him being
one whit the wiser. He had profound objections against shouting his whereabouts to his mate--his
woods' instinct warned him never to reveal his presence unless there was no other way out--but
he saw speedily enough that there was no other course left for him to take.

He made a megaphone of his hands, and sent a long-drawn "Coo-ee" out to wake the echoes. The
sound reverberated from the hills and died rumbling away in the hollows. For some seconds after
that there was absolute silence, and then somewhere ahead of him he caught a very faint noise
as of long grass rustling in the wind. But the air was absolutely devoid of motion. The sound
puzzled Cumshaw; the very stealthiness of it convinced him that no animal had made it, yet
he could not understand why Bradby should exercise such unnecessary caution.

Then in an instant he knew. The black wall ahead of him was split by a pencil of flame, the
silence of the forest crackled into sound, and the whip-like crack of a revolver echoed and
re-echoed. A bullet whistled dangerously close to Cumshaw. He swore under his breath and tugged
furiously at his own revolver. Bending almost double he sprinted towards the shelter of the
nearest tree, while at the same instant the stranger's weapon cracked again. Something stung
his ear. He put up his hand, and the warm blood spurted through his fingers.

He compressed himself into the smallest possible space behind the tree and then fired in the
direction of the last shot. He allowed a short interval to elapse and then fired again. The
other man must have seen the flashes, but he made no attempt to answer them. The moment the
first shot was fired Cumshaw realised, in a flash of intuition, that his assailant was none
other than Jack Bradby. The knowledge made him extremely angry, for such black treachery was
the last thing he had expected to have to contend with. He saw now that it was the old case
of thieves falling out over the division of the spoils, and that Jack Bradby was determined
to stop at nothing, even murder, in order to gain the whole of the plunder. He continued firing
with a savage fury that boded ill for his late mate.

The thing itself happened suddenly. One moment he was peering out into the darkness in an effort
to locate his enemy; the next strong sinewy hands were around his throat choking the life out
of him. With that clarity of vision that comes to a man perhaps once in a lifetime, he saw,
even in the all-pervading darkness, the shadowy face that was pressed close to his own. The
eyes that looked into his were dim pools of evil light, faintly phosphorescent like those of
a cat, and the face that framed them was contorted into a malignant leer of triumph. That much
he saw before the darkness crushed him out of existence and all things earthly faded from his
vision.

Bradby felt the man's body go limp in his arms, and he quickly thrust into its holster the
revolver with which he had dealt the final blow. There was a steamy smell of blood on the thick,
damp air, and when Mr. Bradby drew away his right hand he found it warm and wet.

"Christ!" he said in a tone of fear, "I've killed him!" That was precisely what he had intended
to do from the very first, but now his plan had apparently fructified, he felt a vague horror
at the result of his handiwork. He opened Cumshaw's shirt and put his hand over the man's heart.
He could not detect even the faintest flutter.

Then swiftly, with many glances about him as he moved, he carried the body to the undergrowth
and very gently laid it on the ground. But he failed to notice that as he bent down a flat
piece of wood had slipped from the pocket of his shirt and had fallen soundlessly into the
soft green grass at the side of Abel Cumshaw's body.

Five minutes later silence reigned. Only the heavy scent of the wattle was mingled with another
odor--the warm, sickly smell of freshly-shed blood.

CHAPTER V.

EXPIATION.

Unaccountably enough Bradby went no further than the dying embers of the fire. His first act
was to build a big blaze, for he was already becoming afraid. He could not define even to himself
just what this fear was; it was not so much horror at what he had done as a feeling that his
sins would yet find him out. Some strange attraction kept him close to the scene of the tragedy,
and all night he sat by the fire with his head in his hands and his eyes staring at the ever-widening
ring of white ashes. Towards morning he fell into a doze, but scarcely had the first rays of
the sun penetrated through the leafy mantle of the trees than he was wide-awake. There were
dark rings under his eyes, and the eyes themselves looked strangely tired and haggard. He glanced
at his hands with a faint idea that something had been wrong with them the night before. He
was disgusted to find that they were caked with dried blood, and a feeling almost akin to nausea
shook his frame. He made all the haste he could to the creek and washed every speck of blood
and dirt off, so that when he had finished his hands were clean and spotless.

He shot a parrot for breakfast and made a gruesome meal off the raw flesh. There was nothing
else to eat, for the flour had all been finished the previous day. After the morning's meal
he brightened up and set off northward with a brisk stride. The money was safe enough in the
valley for the present, he decided, and a couple of months in the Riverina would not only not
do him any harm, but would allow the hue and cry time to die down. After that he would come
back and get the gold, and this time there would be no question of division; it would be his,
all of it. Now that the daylight had come he could think of the dark figure suddenly growing
limp in his arms and the smell of fresh blood mixing with the scent of the wattles without
the slightest misgiving. He had no fear of it; he certainly felt no remorse. The further he
got from the scene of the murder, the lighter grew his spirits. He turned the situation over
in his mind and found abundant satisfaction in it; his primitive logic told him that there
was no evidence against him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is doubtful who was the most surprised, the troopers or Bradby when he stumbled unexpectedly
into their camp that evening. They were not the men who had been following the bushrangers
from the start, but another body, warned by wire and hurriedly sent out from Murtoa. For some
unexplained reason the camp-fire had been allowed to die down, and so there was no red glow
to warn Bradby of their proximity. He had blundered into the midst of the men before he quite
realised what had happened, and, when he made a wild dash for safety, he found that all way
of escape had been cut off. He was hemmed in on every side. The troop was in charge of an officer
of more than average intelligence, and he instantly jumped to the correct conclusion. Had Bradby
not lost his head and endeavored to escape, he might have been able to pass himself off as
a prospector or something of the sort, but the mere sight of his all-too-evident anxiety to
get away wakened the suspicions of the sergeant. The Grampians and the country surrounding
them had hitherto been singularly free from crime, and no malefactors from other parts of the
State were known to be at large in that neighbourhood. Obviously this man, who displayed such
a disinclination to meet the police, must be a criminal, and just as obviously must he be one
of the men wanted for the gold escort robbery. The sergeant decided in one lightning flash
on a plan that he hoped would startle the man into betraying himself. The moment Bradby turned
to retreat and found himself hemmed in, the other walked over to him, scrutinised him carefully,
and in the same instant placed his hand on his shoulder and said, "I arrest you in the Queen's
name for the robbery of the Gold Escort on the night of 1st December."

Bradby's jaw dropped and he stared open-mouthed at the other. He could not understand the process
of almost instantaneous reasoning by which the officer had arrived at this conclusion, and
the swift scrutiny the man had given him convinced him that in some strange and unaccountable
way a description of him had been obtained and circulated. The man had recognised him, of that
he felt sure.

All round him were staring policemen, watching him intently with eyes that were no less full
of astonishment than his own. They could not fathom the reasons that actuated their chief,
but they realised, all of them, that the man before them must be in some guilty way connected
with the robbery. His very manner told them that.

The chief uttered the usual warning: "It is my duty to warn you that anything you say will
be used in evidence----" He got so far when Bradby awoke from his stupor. He gave no warning
of his intention, but his doubled fist shot out, caught the other on the point of the jaw and
dropped him in a heap on the ground. Then with the swiftness of thought he leaped to one side,
pulling his revolver loose at the same instant. He had just the smallest fraction of a second's
start of the police, and in the flurry of the moment he actually burst through the cordon that
had formed around him. The next instant the carbines of the police commenced to bark. Bradby
stumbled, recovered himself, and fired over his shoulder. Several of the troopers were already
on horseback, and it was only a matter of riding him down. He saw this himself, and his futile
shot was designed to stop one at least of the horses. However, it went wide. He slipped behind
a tree and began snap-shooting at the advancing mounted men. They spread out fanwise, thus
coming at him from three sides at once. He moved slightly in order to get a better aim, and
in doing so unwittingly exposed himself. One of the troopers, who had discarded his carbine
in favor of a revolver, took a flying shot. Bradby lurched from behind the tree, clasped his
hands to his left side and slipped down on to the grass.

When they reached him the blood was welling out of his side, and they saw that he was mortally
wounded. The man who had fired the fatal shot dropped on his knees beside him and lifted up
his head. Bradby's face was ashy pale, even in the faint moonlight one could see that, but
he was still conscious.

"It's no use," he panted. "I'm done."

"Where is the gold and where are your mates?" the man asked, conscious that a word from the
dying bushranger would solve everything. Bradby's frame shook spasmodically, and when the other
looked again there was blood on his pale lips.

"Through the lung," muttered one of the others who had some knowledge of medical science.

The first man repeated his question in another form.

Bradby looked at him with a strangely inscrutable face and with eyes that were already darkening
with the shadow of death.

"Where's the gold? Where's ... my ... mates?" The last three words were almost whispered.

"Yes," said the trooper eagerly. "Where are they?"

The dying man moved his lips, but no sound issued from them. The other bent down closer to him.

"That," said the bushranger with long and painful pauses between each word, "you ... will ...
never ... know."

And with that last taunt on his lips he died.

"Game to the end," the trooper said to his comrades with an admiration he made no effort to hide.

       *       *       *       *       *

The blow had not killed Abel Cumshaw. He lay unconscious for the better part of the night,
and even when the day dawned he was too weak at first to do more than crawl a few paces at
the most. His head was throbbing, his mouth was a raging furnace, and all his limbs felt as
if they had been racked and twisted. When daylight came at length he lay still for a while,
trying to recollect what had happened. But his mind was a perfect blank and he himself was
a man without an identity. The blow that had knocked him unconscious had somehow affected his
memory, and he knew no more about himself than he did about the man in the moon. Something
terrible had happened, something in which he had played a very prominent part, that much he
realised; but beyond that simple fact his recollection did not extend. He groped about in the
grass in the hope that he might find something that would give him a clue to the situation.
His hand fell on his revolver. That at least was tangible, but there was nothing enlightening
about it. Further search revealed a small flat piece of wood. He picked it up curiously and
stared at it. Two or three sentences had been hurriedly scratched on its smooth surface with
the point of a sharp knife, but though they were intelligible enough they did not appear to
refer to anything concerning him. The mere fact that he had been lying almost on top of the
wood struck him as strange, and in a moment of unusual thoughtfulness he slipped it into his
pocket.

It was bright day by then, and the warmth of the sun seemed to revive him to a marvellous extent.
He got on his feet more by sheer will-power than by any sudden accession of strength. He found
that he could stagger along, though his pace was necessarily slow and his course very erratic.
Some uncharted sense, instinct perhaps, led him along the track to the creek where he had pitched
his camp the previous evening. There was a dim familiarity about the place that puzzled him.
He felt in some absurd way that he should recognise it, and he was both angry and surprised
that he could not. He found the remains of the parrot that Bradby had eaten for breakfast,
and he wondered vaguely who the man might be who had been so close to him that morning. His
wonder was such an impersonal thing that he did not connect his own condition with the fact
of the other man's presence. Something had given way inside his head, that something that controlled
rational and consecutive memory. He sat down on the bank of the creek and gazed into space.
It would be incorrect to say that he was dazed or that he behaved like a man in a dream. Those
are stock terms that in themselves are quite inadequate to convey his peculiar state of mind
and body. It was something more than lassitude, yet it was not quite fatigue. It was rather
as if some integral part of his brain had been removed.

It is impossible to say just how long he remained on the bank of the creek. At last his hunger
became so acute that he determined to go off foraging. He had his revolver with him; he was
a fair enough shot, and so it was not long before he tumbled a 'possum out of a tree. He made
a rough meal of it, and after that set off aimlessly into the bush. Had he kept to his original
intention he would have speedily wandered into the Mallee, and would have run a good chance
of dying of starvation in that thinly-populated district. But his mind was still in a whirl,
and instinct alone guided his footsteps to the east. He was many miles north of the valley
and during his travels he moved further north, so that he did not come across it during his
journey back.

His subsequent adventures are not very clear. Early in his travels the piece of wood began
to trouble him, and he decided that the sooner he got rid of it the better. It is more than
likely that he connected it in some way with that blank feeling of inexplicable tragedy which
seemed to overshadow him. His instinct, however, led him to hide rather than destroy it. He
read the wording very carefully, but it failed to awaken any responsive chords in his memory.
As an after-thought, just as he was about to slide the wood into the hole he had scraped out,
he took his knife and cut his name below the screed. Then he thrust it into the hole and stamped
the earth in on top of it. In this relation it is interesting to notice the connection between
the hiding of the money and the burying of the wood that held the key to the position of the
former. It seems as if the sub-conscious memory of the one act had its influence on the man
in his performance of the other.

Thereafter Mr. Cumshaw simply disappeared off the face of the earth. His son's story is that
he went to New South Wales, married there and raised a family, and in the light of subsequent
events that seems to be what most likely occurred. It is known, however, that the Cumshaws
were in Victoria again somewhere about nineteen hundred and two or three, Albert being at that
time seven years old.

With the lapse of years Abel had gradually recovered his memory, and bit by bit most of the
incidents of the robbery had stolen out of the shrouded darkness of the past. He appears to
have been perfectly contented with his family, and for one reason and another the gold remained
undisturbed through the long years. The time was coming when the old play would be staged again
and new actors would arise to carry it through.

The tale of the gold robbery and the shooting of Mr. Jack Bradby, as the reader will readily
understand, passed into the police records and thus became matters of history. Though no definite
statement has been left us, Mr. Bryce must have first come across the story during his researches
into Victorian history. He had friends in the Department, and it is quite feasible that he
had ready access to many official documents that are usually beyond the reach of the ordinary
public. He was not the only one in this enviable position. There were other students of the
past who were moving along the same lines, and as he pieced together the puzzle of the robbery
he was followed by a pair of agile, unscrupulous brains every whit as clever as he. The police
records told Mr. Bryce just this much:--On the first day of December, 1881, there had been
a gold robbery, and the robbers had got completely away. They had been followed, and subsequently
a man had been killed in the Grampians who had been identified as John Bradby, a noted sheep
and cattle-duffer. When dying he refused to tell who his pals were, and had in the same breath
stated that the police would never find the gold. That in itself was conclusive, yet the additional
fact remained that the whereabouts of the gold was still as big a mystery as ever it had been.
The opinion of the police was that the other members of the gang--they seemed to think that
it was a fairly large one--had returned when the hue and cry had died away and recovered the
plunder. Bryce, reading between the lines of the dry official record, rather thought that they
hadn't. At any rate the element of mystery was sufficiently strong to induce him to investigate
the matter further. That was really the beginning of the trouble.

CHAPTER VI.

THE HEGIRA OF MR. ABEL CUMSHAW.

Early in January, 1919, Mr. Bryce had advanced so far in his investigations that he resolved
on taking a trip to the country around the Grampians. He had nothing very definite to go on
beyond the facts that the robbery had been committed at one spot and Mr. Bradby had been killed
at another, and logically the gold must have been hidden somewhere in between. He had hopes
that he might stumble on something that in his capable hands would prove to be a clue to the
long-lost hiding-place of the gold. Before he made any preparations he inserted an advertisement
in several of the leading dailies. It ran somehow like this:--"Wanted--A capable and intelligent
assistant to take part in dangerous expedition to Grampians. Apply," and then followed his
name and address. He was convinced in his own mind that someone amongst those who read this
notice would have some inkling at least of the events of 1st December, 1881, and he rather
fancied that he or they would be on the alert. In that case it was just possible that the persons
concerned would either approach him with a guarded offer or would dog his footsteps. In either
case there was a chance of Mr. Bryce picking up information that might be to his immediate
advantage. He convinced himself that there were still people living who had played an intimate
part in the affairs of that memorable night.

The advertisement, however, had two results that were unforeseen by Mr. Bryce. The third day
after the insertion of the notice he was informed that a gentleman wanted to see him. He requested
that the man be shown into his study. In due course the visitor arrived. He was a man somewhere
in the neighbourhood of sixty, but, save for a slight greying of the hair about his temples,
he showed little outward signs of his age. His eyes, which were of a deep, unfathomable black,
were very alert and followed Mr. Bryce's every movement with a glittering serenity, if one
can use the expression, that was very disturbing.

"Sit down," said Mr. Bryce, and he waved his visitor to a chair.

The man sat down in the chair indicated, looked Mr. Bryce up and down, without, however, the
least sign of offensiveness in his gaze, and said without any further preliminary, "I've come
to see you about that advertisement."

"Um!" said Mr. Bryce non-committally. "Yes, that ad. What about it?"

"I think," said the other with his eyes fixed intently on Mr. Bryce, "I think I am the best
man for the job."

"I haven't told you yet what the job is," Mr. Bryce objected.

"That's so," the other admitted. "Beyond saying that it was dangerous, you did not attempt
to describe it. It doesn't matter what you want in the Grampians. I'm the man to take. I know
the place well."

"It's changed vastly in thirty years," Bryce said suddenly.

The other must have been expecting something like this, for he never turned a hair. As far
as he was concerned Mr. Bryce's observation might have been the most casual remark in the world.
He ignored it. Perhaps it would have been better had he commented on it and asked what association
to-day's expedition had with what had happened during thirty odd years. He passed the matter
over in silence, and in that instant Bryce guessed that the man knew as much, if not more,
than he did.

"Do you know why I advertised that expedition as dangerous?" Bryce asked, seeing that the other
made no attempt to reply.

The man shook his head. "No, I don't," he said distinctly.

"I'll tell you," said Bryce, and he leaned forward in simulated confidence. "I'm fat and I
wheeze. My bellows are all to blazes and the doctors won't give a rap for my heart. I might
go out any minute, more especially if there's any extra exertion. Now I want a man who won't
ask questions, who will do the exertions for two, and take what's coming with a grin."

"That sounds simple enough," the man remarked. "May I ask what we are after?"

"I'm searching for gold," said Bryce with a startling clearness.

The other shifted in his seat, looked at Bryce as if to measure the possibilities of his next
remark, and then said, "There's no gold there."

"You mean," said Bryce, "that none's ever been discovered there; quite a different thing. I
hope to discover some before I'm done."

"It's too far west for mines," the other asserted.

Mr. Bryce passed over the man's statement in a way that showed that as far as he was concerned
that aspect of the matter was over and done with. The obvious answer for him to make would
have been, "Gold comes in other ways than out of mines," but he was cautious enough not to
air all his knowledge at once.

"What's your name?" he demanded.

"Abel Cumshaw," the other answered, and saw by the way Bryce screwed up his brows that it conveyed
nothing to him.

"Well, Mr. Cumshaw, would you care to take this job on?"

"How long would we be away?"

"Six weeks or two months. I'm not certain of that."

"When do we start?"

"This is Monday. Be here Friday and we'll get right away. Friday morning, mind, at ten-thirty
sharp. That's all, I think. Good-day."

After Mr. Cumshaw had gone Bryce slipped back in his chair and laughed till his whole face
creased up in rolls of quivering fat. "That's a good one on him," he murmured. "He didn't ask
what screw he was to get, and I didn't tell him because I wanted to see if he'd ask. But he
didn't, so he must have been thinking of something else. He's anxious to get to the Grampians,
darned anxious. From the way he went on he seems to know a bit about the place too. I wonder
has he any suspicion?... Good Lord! wouldn't it be a streak of luck if he knew! Yes, I did
the right thing in sending in that ad. One man's bitten at any rate."

He went about the house all day chuckling away to himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

The second incident which occurred that same day was of even a more disturbing nature. Late
that afternoon the telephone bell rang, and when Bryce answered it a voice asked if he was
the Mr. Bryce who had advertised for an assistant in an expedition to the Grampians.

"That's me," said Bryce. "But I'm sorry to say that the position's filled."

"Why are you sorry?" the voice asked disconcertingly.

"Um!" said Mr. Bryce. "Aren't you after it?"

"No chance," said the voice. "As a matter of fact, I was on the point of writing out a similar
one myself, when I saw yours and guessed I'd let you do the work."

"Who are you?" Bryce demanded with a trace of sharpness in his voice.

The man at the other end of the wire laughed cheerfully. "Never you mind," he said. "You'll
know soon enough, as soon as you've landed Jack Bradby's plunder. Now, I want to put up a sporting
proposition to you. We'll retire gracefully, if you'll split fifty-fifty."

"We!" Bryce repeated. "So there's more than one of you?"

"There's lots of us, and we've got the whip hand of you because, you see, you don't know who
we are. We know you; we've been following a couple of jumps behind you right through all the
records, and we guess it's high time we cashed in."

"I'll see you in Hell first!" said Bryce angrily.

"Probably you will," said the voice with a chuckle. "If you won't treat with us, we'll get
what we want in other ways."

"No, by thunder, you won't!" said Bryce shortly. "I'll warn you that I'll shoot on sight."

"So do we," the other laughed. "I hope, for your sake, you recognise us first, though I don't
think it likely."

"If I catch you monkeying around I'll fill you so full of holes that your own mother won't
know you from a colander," Bryce threatened; but the voice laughed irritatingly, and when Bryce
tried to get a reply he found that the other had rung off.

He flickered the hook with his finger. "Exchange," he said, giving his number, "can you tell
me who was speaking just now?"

"Box three, G. P. O. public 'phones," said the girl wearily.

"Oh, hell!" said Bryce in disgust, and hung up the receiver.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rest of the week passed without incident of any sort, and, despite the warning he had received.
Bryce went on calmly with his preparations. For all the fat flabbiness of him he was grit through
and through, and it took more than a warning over the telephone to turn him aside once he had
made up his mind to take a certain course. He went on quietly and silently; his only sign of
perturbation was that first thing on Tuesday he slipped down town and bought a big calibre
revolver.

Friday morning came, and at ten-thirty exactly, not a minute before or after, Mr. Abel Cumshaw
knocked at the front door and was admitted. He was shown at once into Mr. Bryce's study, where
that gentleman awaited him, watch in hand.

"On time to the tick," he said affably as Cumshaw entered the room. "Everything's ready for
an immediate start. I suppose you've got all you want."

"I'm always ready at a moment's notice," Cumshaw said. "I travel light. I'm an old campaigner."

"That's the way I like to hear a man talk," Bryce said breezily. "We'll be going in my car
as far as we can. After that we'll have to walk, and I'm not a very good hand at that. There's
some rough spots up there, they tell me," he said off-handedly. For all his seeming nonchalance
he was watching Cumshaw intently, and he saw him give an almost imperceptible start. It flashed
across Bryce's mind that perhaps Cumshaw was in the pay of the people who had gone to such
pains to 'phone him. A second look at the man convinced him that such was not the case. Cumshaw's
eyes were frank and clear, and met his unswervingly. They were not the eyes of a man who was
playing a double game.

There was something in them that Bryce did not quite understand. It was the animation of newly-resurrected
hope, such a light as might have shone in the eyes of the men who rode to find the Holy Grail.
Bryce knew nothing of him or his history, and his only thought was that in some queer way the
man had a vital interest in the Grampians. It must be remembered that, as far as known facts
were concerned, Bryce knew nothing more than the police records had told him. True, his reasoning
faculties, which were none of the densest, carried him a little further, but he would have
been the very first to admit his fallibility. Nothing had occurred as yet to connect Cumshaw
with Mr. Jack Bradby. He recognised that the man had a definite object in view in going to
the Grampians--that was plain enough--but it might after all be merely coincidence. Such things
have happened. Mr. Cumshaw, on the other hand, was alert and suspicious. He suspected everybody
and everything, and he had answered the advertisement solely because he believed, or affected
to believe, that an expedition to the hill country could have no other object that the recovery
of the gold. Doubtless it will appear strange that Mr. Cumshaw had allowed so many years to
elapse without attempting to secure it for himself, but, as he told Bryce later on, there were
reasons even for that.

       *       *       *       *       *

They stopped at Ballarat for lunch; Bryce refilled the petrol tank, and then they set out on
the long stretch to Ararat. Though no definite statement exists, they passed the night at the
latter town, for Cumshaw afterwards told his son that they reached Landsborough about 10.30
the following morning. Beyond Landsborough the track became very trying for the car, and somewhere
towards the evening of the second day the machine was hidden away securely in one of the many
gullies that abounded in the neighbourhood. Then the hardest part of the journey began. Child's
play though it might have been to Cumshaw, who, for all his years, had a constitution such
as it is given to a few men to possess, it certainly must have been a matter of infinite torture
to Bryce, handicapped as he was with his weak-heart and his wheezy lungs.

They spent the next few days in working across to the spot where Bradby had been killed thirty
odd years before. As they drew near to the place Cumshaw became more self-contained and uncommunicative
than ever. The sight of the old scene seemed to have depressed him marvellously. Bryce watched
him with increasing attentiveness; he noticed that he picked out the road as if he had been
used to it from childhood. There were times when Bryce turned suddenly on him and caught a
glimpse of a hard-set jaw and a mouth about which strong lines of determination had woven themselves.
Yet, as soon as Cumshaw fancied he was observed, the mask of his face melted into a smile,
and the sombre eyes sparkled with a humor that somehow seemed too real to be assumed.

"You seem very familiar with the place, Cumshaw," Bryce remarked one morning.

"I told you I was," Cumshaw answered, his unfathomable eyes searching his employer's face.

"How long is it since you were here last?" Bryce asked.

At the question all expression vanished from the other's face, leaving it as immobile as a
carven image of stone. "I have been here many times," he said evasively.

"Um!" said Bryce in that peculiar way of his, and he looked the other up and down contemplatively.
"I didn't think anyone had been here since Bradby was shot."

Bryce made the remark in the most casual and innocent way; he hadn't the faintest notion in
the world that what he had said was like a bombshell bursting beneath the structure of Mr.
Cumshaw's composure. He was intelligent enough to realise that it was more than probable that
Cumshaw possessed knowledge of that almost forgotten episode which was not shared with anyone
else, but he had not the least suspicion that his casual utterance would hit home so shrewdly
as it did.

Mr. Cumshaw stared at him as if he could not believe his ears. For once he made no attempt
to disguise his emotions beneath the mask of stoicism. He saw laughter in the other's eyes,
the jovial laughter of a man who has always known the sweets of victory, and he jumped to the
natural though erroneous conclusion that Bryce had fathomed his connection with the late Mr.
Bradby. For all that he did not abandon his defences without some show of resistance.

"What do you mean?" he demanded in the belligerent attitude of a man who is fighting a desperate
though losing fight.

"Just what I said, Mr. Cumshaw," Bryce smiled. "What else did you think I meant?"

The quiet question was put in such an unexpectedly mild tone that Cumshaw was left wordless
for the nonce, though his face showed in all their fulness the emotions that were stirring
within him. Doubt, indecision, fear of a kind.

"I thought----," he said and then stopped short.

"You thought," Bryce repeated with a gentle persuasiveness in his voice. "What was it you thought,
Cumshaw?"

They were both fencing, in sporting parlance "sparring for wind," each of them with the Big
Idea almost within reach, and each not daring yet to put it into words. For the space of a
heart-beat they stared into each other's eyes, seeking to read the other's thoughts. In the
end it was Cumshaw who gave in first. He tore his eyes away from that fixed yet kindly gaze
that seemed to search and read his very soul.

"I see," said Bryce, with a sudden intake of breath that lent a sibilant quality to his speech,
"I see that we are on the same track. Mr. Cumshaw, place your cards on the table. You are after
the gold that Bradby hid; so am I. Our aims are the same. Let us be partners, instead of employer
and assistant. What do you know that I do not? What do I know that you do not?"

Like most fat and comfortable people Bryce was the soul of generosity, and his offer was dictated
not so much by expediency as by a sense of the pity that he felt for this man, who seemed to
have aged years in the last few minutes. He, too, in his time had known what it meant to have
the prize within a hand's touch and then at the last moment lose it after all.

"You know nothing about me," Cumshaw said impulsively. "You don't know who I am or what I've
been. You haven't an idea...."

Bryce cut him short with a sweeping gesture of his chubby hands. "My dear man," he said, "what
you've been doesn't matter a tinker's curse to me. It's what you are that counts."

"You don't even know that," the other answered, his lips curling in a wry smile.

"I'll know as soon as you tell me," Bryce hinted.

It is a difficult matter for a man, who all his life has held a close secret, to divulge it
at a moment's notice, in a sudden fit of warm friendliness, to a comparative stranger, and
so Abel Cumshaw found it. It is even harder to surrender one's hopes and ambitions in favor
of a potential rival, honest and all as that rival may appear to be. For one brief moment Cumshaw
paused on the brink of revelation, the while he weighed the matter in his mind. In some strange
way Bryce had guessed that he was after the gold, but did he know why and how? Cumshaw rather
fancied he didn't. He was so sure of it that he decided that he would gain nothing by divulging
the connection between himself and the late Mr. Bradby. So the mouth which was opening to speak
shut up again like a steel trap, and the dark eyes turned bleak and cold. He looked Bryce steadily
and calmly in the face.

"There is nothing to tell," he said, and turned on his heel.

       *       *       *       *       *

Black night had descended on the forest many hours before, so many in fact that the camp fire
had sunk to a feeble red glow, and the dying embers were already circled by a ring of dead
white ash. The breeze was crooning softly through the branches of the trees, singing weird
chanties to itself. In between the murmurs of the wind there came another sound, the indistinct
sound of a sleepy man mumbling to himself. Bryce half-raised himself on one elbow and listened.
Half a dozen feet away from him Cumshaw lay tightly rolled in his blankets. He tossed restlessly
and once all but sat up. Bryce dropped quickly but soundlessly back into a prone position.
But the alarm had been a false one, and presently he quietly raised himself again. The indistinct
mumbling went on as before, and he strained his ears to catch some intelligible word.

"Kill me, would you?" he heard the other say.

His voice sank again, and for a time he mumbled and mouthed his words so that Bryce missed
most of what he said. He was just on the point of settling down again when Cumshaw suddenly sat up.

"I'll beat you yet, Bradby!" he cried with startling distinctness. "You're dead now and the
gold's mine."

His eyes opened and he stared dazedly around him. Bryce was lying prone and snoring away hoggishly.
He was fast asleep; there was not the slightest doubt in the mind of the man who watched him
so closely.

"I must have dreamt I said it," Cumshaw murmured to himself. "If I'd spoken the way I thought
I had he'd have been wide-awake." And then he in his turn composed himself to slumber.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were very quiet at breakfast. Bryce was turning the situation over in his mind, viewing
it from all possible angles and seeking some method of getting Cumshaw to speak without in
any way antagonising him. Cumshaw himself was troubled by lingering doubts. It was quite possible
after all that Bryce had heard him, supposing he had spoken aloud, and was quietly dissembling
for some purpose of his own. His very thoughtfulness seemed to lend color to that idea. He
looked at Bryce across the carpet of grass and at the same instant Bryce raised his eyes. They
stared at each other with the breathless intensity of two men who know that in all things they
are evenly matched. Each was striving to the last atom of his will-power to break down the
resistance of the other and force him in some way to take the initiative. At last it was Bryce
who dropped his eyes a fraction and Cumshaw who breathed a sigh of relief. But his relief was
short-lived, for in the last half-second his guard had relaxed. Bryce said:

"Why did Bradby want to kill you, Mr. Cumshaw?"

The quick yet calm question, covering as it did the one episode of which nobody but the two
participants could possibly have any knowledge, startled Cumshaw. For once his impassive face
showed signs of fear, and his eyes became those of a hunted man. He half-rose to his feet and
then dropped back again, as if aware of the uselessness of flight. He tried to speak, but the
words stuck in his throat. In one short sentence Bryce had shattered all his hopes and pulled
his airy castles to the ground. Did this man but like to speak he would be once again Cumshaw
the bushranger, the man who had been hand in glove with Bradby, and who, through some miracle
of mischance, had not been bracketed with his dead colleague. Bryce knew all apparently, and
a word from him----. Cumshaw shivered.

"You can trust me," Bryce said softly. "I guess I know your secret now. You and Bradby carried
out that robbery between you. You hid the gold, and for one reason and another you've never
retrieved it. Isn't that it?"

Cumshaw nodded. It was too late now to deny anything, even if he had so felt inclined. Nemesis
in the shape of this laughing-eyed, gross-bodied man, had come upon him in his old age, and
there was nothing for it but to take what was coming with as good a grace as he could muster.

"What happened thirty years or more ago is over and done with," Bryce ran on, "and I'm not
the sort to bring it into the light of day again. I'm after that gold, and, in order to get
it, I'm quite ready to repeat my previous offer. We each seem to have something that the other
lacks. You can tell me many things I don't know. Of that I'm sure."

"There's a lot of things you seem sure of," Cumshaw said with a half-defiant air.

"I'm as sure that you're the man who was with Bradby as if I'd seen it all myself," Bryce stated.
"Remember, before you refuse, that it's always better to compromise than fight. Furthermore,
if you have to fight, it's much better to have an ally you can rely on."

"What's that?" Cumshaw demanded with a show of interest. "What do you mean?"

"Only this," Bryce said slowly. "There's another crowd on the track, and they've already warned
me that they'll make the going heavy. If you've got to be up against them, why not throw in
your lot with me? It's fifty-fifty with us; if you stand out on your own, you'll probably lose
it all."

"I think you've got me in a cleft stick," Cumshaw said a trifle ruefully. "I can't see that
I can refuse. Now how much do you know?"

Said Mr. Bryce untruthfully, "I know everything except where you've hidden the gold."

"And even I couldn't swear to that," Cumshaw said.

"It seems to me," said Bryce dryly, "that the best thing you can do is to tell me the whole story."

He listened eagerly to the tale, occasionally stopping the other to question him on some obscure
point, sometimes helping him along with a comment that threw unexpected light in the dark corners
of the story.

"It amounts to this," he said when Cumshaw had finished. "Bradby buried the gold in this hidden
valley of yours. It's so hidden--the valley, I mean--that you only came on it by accident,
and you have no definite idea as to its whereabouts. It's three or four days' journey into
the mountains, that's all you can say. There's no way of recognising it from the outside that
you know of. Well, I'll tell you this, Mr. Cumshaw. It's my frank opinion that your clever
murderous friend had some way of finding it again, or he wouldn't have been in such haste to
make away with you. He knew what he was doing, you can depend on it. Now I wonder if he left
any clue?"

"I've got a hazy memory that he left directions somewhere and that I had them," Cumshaw said
despondently, "but I can't say what happened to them. You must remember that I was wandering
about half-delirious for a long while after I got knocked, and it was years before I got really
right again. I might have lost any note he made; I might have done anything with it."

"You might have and that's a fact," Mr. Bryce agreed. "Now you say you've hunted for this valley
many times during the last ten years or so."

Cumshaw nodded. "It seems funny," he said, "but I've never been able to find it."

"There's nothing funny about it," Bryce told him. "History and fiction abound with instances
of similar miscalculations. I'll guarantee that there are scores of such places in every continent
in the world. Australia's got just as many as any other place. What made you want to hunt it
up again after all those years?"

"Old associations, I suppose," Cumshaw said half-ashamedly. "While I was in New South Wales--I
went there, you understand, until things blew over a bit--and my wife was alive, I didn't want
anything else but to be near her. When she died and things began to go wrong with me, I drifted
back here. Money was short. I was living as best I could, and there were the children to look
after, and the sight of the old places brought things back to my mind. I was beginning to dig
bits up from the memory of the past--the doctors have some fancy name for lapses like mine,
though I could never remember what it was--and then one day I asked myself why shouldn't I
go after the gold? It was as much mine as anyone else's, now that Bradby was dead, and the
Bank that originally owned it had gone smash about the Land Boom time from what I could gather.
I went, but I missed the place somehow. I went time and again, but it was always like that
'Lost Mountain' story of Mayne Reid's, though a valley's harder to find than a mountain you'd
think. I couldn't find it anyhow, and that's about all there is to it."

"Um!" said Mr. Bryce, and he ran his hand softly across his chin. "We are up against a bigger
thing than I thought. I'm hanged if I can see a glimmer of light anywhere. Is there anything
you can suggest?"

Cumshaw did not reply. He was staring straight ahead of him, staring intently, and little furrows
of anxiety marred the serenity of his forehead. He was peering into the shadows of the trees
as if his eyes were twin searchlights that could cut substance from the gloom. He was staring
so intently that Bryce whirled round, fully convinced that his friends of the telephone were
upon them.

"What's wrong?" he queried in a hoarse whisper. "What are you looking at?"

"Nothing," said Cumshaw. "I thought I heard something moving, that's all."

Bryce in his turn peered intently in between the tree-boles, but the shadows lay thick upon
the grass between, and it was difficult to define even the shapes of the more distant timber.
The place was still and gloomy, full of grim forebodings, like a summer sky in which a storm
is gathering.

"We must have been mistaken," Bryce remarked in his embracing way. "There doesn't seem to be
anyone about."

"Hands up!" snapped a crisp voice, and in the surprise of the moment Bryce obeyed. Cumshaw
had no such intention. He dropped suddenly on to the ground even as a shot rang out, and a
bullet whistled close above his head. The next instant he was crashing swiftly through the
bushes, spinning down into the gully like a human projectile.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE GATHERING OF THE EAGLES.

At first Bryce could see nothing but the dull gleam of unpolished metal from the barrel of
a revolver which protruded from behind a tree, but a further scrutiny showed him the dim outlines
of a man's figure standing in that place of gloom and ghosts. The man stepped out from his
hiding-place, even as Bryce watched him, and was followed almost instantly by another man.
They were both somewhere about the same height, in the neighbourhood of five feet ten. Their
features were not visible, for each of them wore a handkerchief about his face in the time-honored
fashion of the men of the road, and a hat pulled well down over the eyes completed the disguise.

"Well, Mr. Bryce," said the man in front, "what have you got to say for yourself?"

"It's a funny thing," remarked Bryce, with the adventures of Mr. Cumshaw and the late Mr. Bradby
in his mind, "it's funny how history repeats itself."

The leader made a step forward and stared intently at Bryce. "You're the man right enough,"
he said. "Where's your pal?"

"Ask me something easy," sneered Bryce, "and I'd be obliged if you'd let me drop my hands awhile.
This is getting fairly tiresome."

"You should have thought of that before you started that business," the other one reminded
him. "It's rather late now to be finding out the flaws in your plans."

The sneering smile on Mr. Bryce's face broadened into a grin of triumph. "Didn't you ever hear
the proverb about glass-houses and the people who live in them?" he enquired blandly.

The first speaker stared at him, but the other one said impatiently, "Finish him off, Alick,
and let's get it over."

The man called Alick answered in a subdued voice. Bryce did not catch what he said, but supposed
it to be a counsel of caution. His smile grew in intensity, so much so that Alick snapped at
him. "What the deuce are you grinning at, you fat fool?" he demanded.

"You'll know soon enough," Bryce said with a chuckle. He looked right past them into the shadows
of the trees, on his face the joyful expression of a man who sees the long-locked gates of
his prison swing open before him. Both men whirled round with a chorus of oaths. They were
quite positive that Bryce's mate had stolen a march on them and crept up behind their backs.
They had their heads turned away but for the fraction of a second, but the time, short though
it was, was plenty long enough for Mr. Bryce. With an agility, remarkable in a man of his weight
and state of health, he faded into the landscape like some fat fairy.

"Fooled!" said Alick's companion, and he whipped round to face his prisoner, only to find that
the keen-brained Mr. Bryce had vanished as completely as if he had been blown off the face
of the earth.

"Nice pair of goats we are," remarked Alick disgustedly.

The other said nothing, but stood for a moment in a state of indecision. At that precise instant
a pencil of flame shot out from one of the trees immediately in front of them, and Alick dropped
his revolver with a howl of pain.

"He's winged me," he said, and applied to Mr. Bryce an epithet not usually heard in polite society.

His mate fired at the tree from which the shot had evidently come, but the bullet did nothing
more than flatten itself against the trunk in a shower of dust and dry bark. Mr. Bryce's revolver
spoke once again. This time he failed to register.

"The sooner we get out of this the better," said Alick, with one hand clasped to his injured
shoulder. "The beggar'll riddle us both if we stop here."

The other man grunted his approval of the suggestion and proceeded to carry it into effect at once.

"Better look where you are going," Alick advised. "That other chap's about somewhere, perhaps
waiting for us."

The other consigned both Bryce and his assistant to a place more noted for its warmth than
its comfort. Despite their forebodings Mr. Cumshaw did not put in an appearance, and they gained
the shelter of the thick timber in safety.

Once he was sure that they had really departed Mr. Bryce stepped out from behind his tree,
first, however, with commendable caution reloading the heavy revolver he carried. The smile
was still flickering about the corners of his mouth, but there was a little wrinkle of anxiety
across his forehead.

"I wonder where the devil Cumshaw's gone?" he remarked to the unresponsive trees. "He went
off like a scared rabbit. I'd better hunt for him. I can't get on without him now."

With the laudable intention of finding Mr. Cumshaw as soon as possible he began to scour the
neighbourhood.

When Mr. Cumshaw disappeared so precipitately it was with the idea that he must maintain his
freedom at any cost. True, Bryce might be captured, but by the same token he could be rescued
just as easily. Though his intentions were right enough he was prevented in the simplest manner
possible from carrying them into effect. He went crashing through the bushes as has already
been related, and found himself on the edge of what was nothing more or less than a blind creek.
The sides were covered with matted brushwood and were as slippery as glass. His momentum was
such that he could not stop himself in time, and he went head over heels down the side of the
gully, and spun on to the boulder-covered bottom like some new and monstrous kind of Catherine
wheel. He collided with the rounded surface of one of the big weather-worn rocks which lay
strewn about the gully floor like the tremendous marbles of a giant.

The world spun round him in a blaze of colored lights, and his head felt as if it were filled
with fireworks. Then in an instant all sensation ceased as though cut off with the clean sweep
of a naked sword. Mr. Cumshaw lay still and lifeless under the shadow of the brushwood-covered
gully.

Some half an hour later, when Bryce happened on this very spot, he pulled the bushes aside
cautiously and peered down almost between his toes; but the shadows lay thick beneath him,
and the edge of the gully so projected that he could not see the body of the man for whom he
was searching. Slowly he retraced his steps. He was deeply puzzled by this new aspect of the
affair. It seemed impossible that Cumshaw could have completely disappeared in so short a space
of time, yet the fact that he could not be found was in itself proof conclusive. Had Bryce
lingered a couple of seconds longer he would have seen the rapidly-recovering Cumshaw turn
over on his side, raise one hand to his head, and present a startled face to the scanty rays
of light that filtered down to him. In a sense his revival was something more than a recovery;
it was a resurrection. The years rolled away in an instant, and he ceased to be the Abel Cumshaw
who had fallen down the side of the gully and cracked his head against an extra-large sized
boulder; he became the Abel Cumshaw who had just been knocked into unconsciousness by the butt
of Mr. Bradby's revolver, and whose head still throbbed with the force of the blow.

He stared uncomprehendingly at the steep sides of the gully; they had no place in his gallery
of mental pictures. He had a vague idea that there should be a creek somewhere close at hand.
His head was throbbing, pulsing as if some mighty engine were working inside it. He rose unsteadily
to his feet and regarded the steep declivities which formed the sides of the gully with a contemplative
eye. He decided that they were climbable, but that he must wait awhile before he made the attempt.
He was weak yet; one does not recover instantaneously from a crack on the head. He moved very
carefully when he moved at all, and he kept well within the shadows of the overhanging banks.
Mr. Bradby was somewhere handy, he argued, extremely ready and willing to finish him off, and
it would never do to give him another chance. He had no idea that Mr. Bradby had died long
years ago. Time had telescoped and he was back again in the early eighties. With the addled
craftiness of a half-witted creature he set about escaping from the imprisoning walls of the
gully-dungeon. Had it been anything else than a blind creek he would have found an exit by
following the dry bed, and thus have disappeared entirely from this story. But it was fated
otherwise. The one idea that gained any sort of prominence in his mind was that he must climb
the side of the gully.

He found a pool of clear rainwater in a little cavity in the dry bed of the creek, and bathed
his head in it and drank a little. Its refreshing coolness acted on his jaded body like the
sting of a spur on the flank of a lazy horse. He crept cautiously in under the overhang of
the bank and searched about for a foothold. Such was not hard to find, and, in less time than
it takes to write of it, he was swinging up the side of the bank, clinging to projecting ledges
of rock with hands and feet that seemed to possess all the prehensile quality of a monkey's.
Once on the top of the bank he burrowed into the mass of vegetation like some primeval creature
taking to earth, a pitiful caricature of the sane, strong man he had been a few short hours
before. Cautious and all as he was, his flight was not absolutely noiseless, and so it came
about that presently Bryce heard him, and circled round the spot from which the sound came
like a wolf heading off a herd of deer.

Cumshaw crashed through the bushes and emerged into the open a hundred yards or so ahead of
Bryce. The latter caught sight of him at the moment of his emergence and called out to him to stop.

"Cumshaw," he called. "Come here!"

The other heard the call and caught his own name, but instead of slackening he accelerated
his pace. He did not look round; he was convinced in his own warped mind that his pursuer was
none other than the late Mr. Bradby. Accordingly he swung along at such a rate that Bryce soon
dropped behind, breathless and dispirited. He sat down on a convenient log and mopped his damp
face with a large-sized handkerchief. Presently his breathing became normal again, and his
agitated heart ceased fluttering like a caged bird. He fell to reviewing the position. The
more he thought of it, the less hopeless it appeared to be. His unrecognisable and nameless
antagonists had temporarily withdrawn from the fight, whether to consolidate their forces and
plan some new form of attack, or because they had received a very salutary lesson, he could
not say. Also it did not worry him over much. His ideas were centred mainly on Mr. Cumshaw.
True, that gentleman had disappeared over the horizon with every mark of unseemly haste, and
already he must be well advanced on whatever road he was taking. Not so very far away the car
awaited Bryce, and he was sure that, once he reached it, it would be merely a matter of a day
or so until he rediscovered Mr. Cumshaw. He repeated the verb. "Re-discovered" struck a distinctive
note. One could not convey the same meaning with any form of the verb "to overtake;" Mr. Cumshaw
had disappeared, not simply gone on ahead. He chuckled softly at his own quaint conceit, and
at that his spirits began to rise again.

Feeling now fully rested, he rose to his feet and swung out on the track with that long slow
stride which was all that remained of his athletic form of the old New Guinea days. Of late
years he had walked, when he had walked at all, with the quick nervous step of the city-bred
man, and it heartened him immensely to know that he was recovering without any effort of his
volition the old easy pioneer stride.

It is not within the scope of this tale to relate how Mr. Bryce at length reached his car and
set out on what he believed to be Abel Cumshaw's trail. Suffice it to state that he reached
his machine without any untoward incident, the two gentlemen who had so rudely disturbed the
serenity of his nature having seemingly disappeared from the face of the earth. Once he passed
a drover and elicited from him that a man answering Cumshaw's description had passed him on
the road the previous morning. Evidently then the missing man was keeping away from the towns,
taking instead a trail that would inevitably lead him further into the bush. He was rather
pleased at this. Abel Cumshaw in the city would be as hard to find as the proverbial needle
in a bundle of hay, but in the bush it would be much easier to locate him, Bryce considered.
So he drove the car along at a low speed, keeping all the time a watchful eye out for any signs
of the truant. As he progressed he was surprised and not a little pleased to find that his
New Guinea woodcraft was coming back to him by degrees. The joy of the chase was his, and he
experienced again the same keen and primitive emotions that had thrilled him in the days when
the elder Carstairs and he had trodden the unexplored wilds of Papua.

       *       *       *       *       *

He came upon Cumshaw very suddenly. The car was creeping through the trees at a snail's pace--there
was no clearly defined track in that part of the bush, and Bryce was taking no unnecessary
risks--when he caught sight of a figure that might or might not be the missing Mr. Cumshaw.
He stopped the car at once and descended to the ground. As has already been noted earlier in
these memoirs, Mr. Bryce, when occasion required it, for all his huge bulk, could move as agilely
and noiselessly as that pre-eminently silent animal, the domestic cat. He had been so keyed
up by the emotional stresses of the last few days that he threw himself into the adventure
with all the zest of a schoolboy just being introduced into romance. The man was dodging through
the trees a hundred yards or so ahead, and there was something so furtive about his movements
that Bryce approached with more than his usual caution.

The man halted and glanced swiftly around. Bryce flattened himself against a handy tree, and
fervently hoped that the shadow was thick enough to conceal him. The other patently had no
idea that he was being followed, for, apparently quite satisfied with his hasty scrutiny, he
dropped on his knees and commenced scraping the earth away with the point of a knife that had
appeared in his hand with the magical suddenness of a conjuring trick. As the man worked away
Bryce peeped out from his hiding-place and saw then that it was indeed Cumshaw. He watched
fascinated. His heart was thumping away like the piston of a steam-engine, and some queer unnamed
instinct told him that the chase was drawing to a close. Cumshaw was digging up something of
vital importance; it might be the treasure itself or perhaps the key to it. But why should
Cumshaw have gone so stealthily to work unless--? "Unless he is going to cut me out of it,"
said Bryce to himself.

Abruptly the other straightened up and hugged something to his breast. It was covered with
black loam, and at the distance Bryce could not tell what it was. He slipped stealthily from
tree to tree until he had wormed his noiseless way right up to Cumshaw. Then, seeing that he
had his man cut off should he attempt to escape, he stepped out into the open and laid a kindly
hand on the fugitive's shoulder. Cumshaw turned in a flash, and, in the excitement of the moment,
the earth-covered object slipped out of his hands and fell on the grass at his feet.

"Where have you been all this time?" Bryce asked jovially.

Cumshaw stared at him in a puzzled way. His face at first had shown all the symptoms of fear,
but the moment Bryce spoke they faded out, to be replaced by a very obvious air of relief.
Yet there was nothing of recognition in the man's eyes; they were full of a great blank wonder,
like the eyes of a child who takes its first look at the teeming life beyond its doors. His
forehead crinkled up as if he were trying to recall something that had slipped his memory.

"Who are you?" he said at length. "I ... I don't think I know you," and he brushed his forehead
with a weak, ineffective gesture of the hand. It was then that Bryce noticed the matted, blood-stained
condition of his hair and the big purple bruise that disfigured his temple. His quick mind
guessed at what had happened, though, erroneously enough, he concluded that Cumshaw had received
the blows in an encounter with the men who had been the original cause of the man's flight.

"You'd better come with me, Cumshaw," he said in the same soothing tone that he would have
applied to a tired child.

"I'm going home," said Cumshaw with weak stubbornness. "I don't want to go with you."

"I'll take you home," said Bryce.

That he decided was the only thing he could do. Cumshaw was in no fit state to continue the
search for his lost valley, and Bryce realised that it would not be safe to leave him uncared
for. If he went home with Cumshaw he would be throwing his pursuers off the track. That would
help him considerably. He had no fear that they would discover the valley during his absence;
their attack on him showed that they had come to the end of their resources, and fancied that
their only hope of touching any of the spoils was by forcing the secret out of Bryce. Of course
it was quite on the cards that they would follow the car, but it was just as likely that they
would make no definite move until they had solved the meaning of his change of plans.

Cumshaw was still standing like a man in a dream. Bryce placed his hand on the man's arm.

"Come along with me," he said. "I'll see that you get safely home."

He bent down quickly and picked up the loam-encrusted object that Cumshaw had dropped in the
first moment of the encounter, Cumshaw followed his movements with troubled eyes, but did not
interfere in any way. Bryce could see that the thing was a bit of wood, and on one piece of
it, where the earth had been scraped off, there were letters scratched. He thrust it into his
pocket, meaning to examine it more closely at his leisure.

Cumshaw walked to the car with him. He yielded to the stronger will without any show of resistance.
All his own will-power seemed to have departed, and he obeyed Bryce with a child-like faith.
Once in the car he slumped into the corner and closed his eyes. Bryce seized the opportunity
thus given him to steal another look at the wood he had picked up. He scraped away what loam
he could with his finger nail, and soon was able to make out two complete words.

"This'll have to wait," he said with a sigh, as he thrust it back into his pocket. "This bit
of wood's got your name on it, Mr. Abel Cumshaw, and I'll bet all I ever owned that it's the
key you've been hunting for."

He cranked up the car, and soon was speeding back to the high road. In his corner Mr. Cumshaw
slept.

Ten minutes after they reached the main road another car swung out along the Ararat road. There
were three men in it, the chauffeur and two passengers. One of the latter held his hand to
a wounded shoulder, and swore at the chauffeur every time the car jolted and sent a quiver
of pain through the wound.

In course of time Bryce's car came to a little hamlet on the Geelong to Colac road--a hamlet
that must be nameless in this story. There he found the Albert Cumshaw of this tale, delivered
his father into his care and told him all that had happened, suppressing only the episode of
the finding of the wood. He found Albert Cumshaw easier to deal with than he had expected--as
a matter of fact the younger man already knew much of his father's story--and the result of
the conversation was that the search was held over, pending the elder Cumshaw's recovery.

Bryce remained the night with the Cumshaws, saw that a doctor was secured who would give skilled
attention to the elder man, and then early in the morning set out for home. The day was very
warm, and the cool breeze that presently sprang up from the ocean moved Bryce to motor down
to the coast. At the worst it was only a few miles out of his road. At first he had no intention
of making a stop at the heads, but the sea as he came within sight of it looked so cool and
inviting that he was tempted to have a dip. He parked his car in the reserve, purchased a bathing
suit at the local store and ambled down to the beach. It was only when he commenced to undress
that he recollected that the wood was still in his pocket, so with rare caution he thrust it
under the sand, quite satisfied that no one would dream of looking there. He had no idea that
his pursuers were so close behind him; he was merely taking precautions against any casual
tramp who might be tempted to run through his pockets.

Ten minutes later James Carstairs, explorer, gentleman and rolling stone, limped into the picture,
and the story of The Lost Valley entered upon its penultimate phase.

PART III

THE FINDING OF THE LOST VALLEY.

CHAPTER I.

THE CYPHER.

"You may smoke if you like, Mr. Cumshaw," Moira said graciously to our visitor.

I said nothing; instead I silently handed the man my cigar-case. He selected a weed with a
discriminating care that I felt cast an unwarranted reflection on the quality of the cigars
I smoked. I watched him in silence while he cut off the end with a neat, precise stroke of
his penknife, lit the cigar and blew a cloud of blue smoke out of his mouth. All the time I
was staring at him I could feel Moira's eyes on me, and I knew that she was wondering what
made me so boorish and morose. Or, perhaps, with a woman's keen instinct for ferreting out
the things she shouldn't know anything about, she guessed just what was the matter. To tell
the truth I was just beginning to feel a little jealous. Frankly I considered that she was
paying too much attention to Mr. Albert Cumshaw, and I hadn't two sharp eyes without seeing
that he openly admired her. Of course I had turned down her overtures of reconciliation, and
I think I told her plainly enough that there was no possibility of my falling in love with
her again; but, if all that were perfectly true, I shouldn't have been jealous because the
two of them took to making eyes at each other. The fact remained that I was a little hurt by
what I saw, and I had to recognise, even though I ran counter to the promptings of my common-sense,
that I wasn't as indifferent to her as I would have myself believe.

I brought myself back with a jerk to the matter in hand.

"What do you propose doing about the matter?" I asked of Cumshaw.

He did not reply immediately. His right little finger flipped the ash from off the end of his
cigar, and then the dark curly head lifted and the glowing eyes looked straight into mine.

"What do I propose doing!" he repeated. "Well, if it was left to me," he said, after a contemplative
pause, "I'd say the treasure's there, and the sooner we go after it the better. We know already
that there's other people on the job--they killed Mr. Bryce and they made a mess of the Dad--and
it's all right thinking, as Mr. Bryce did, that they've come to the end of their tether and
are waiting for us to set the pace for them. There's been so many miracles in this play already
that it doesn't do to risk the chance of any more. We've got no absolute guarantee that they
won't stumble on the key to everything while we're wasting time here. You say you've got a
cypher Mr. Bryce left you. Well, that cypher contains the position of the treasure; there's
no doubt about that in my mind. Bradby carved it on the wood--neither he nor the Dad had any
paper with them at the time--and from what I've heard of the man I'm confident that it's the
kind of thing he would do. Then when Mr. Bryce got hold of it he burnt the wood and threw what
was on it into a sort of cryptogram. One way and another he was pretty cautious when the fit
took him, though I must say that when it was a question of his own life he wasn't so particular.
It boils down to this. The Dad's out of the game for good and we've got to use our own wits.
Within limits we've got a fair idea of the position of the valley, and, once we've solved the
cypher, we'll probably have something more definite to go on."

"That," I remarked, "is supposing we do solve it. As far as I can see it's too weird for anything."

"Uncle," said Moira severely, "wouldn't have written it if he didn't think you could solve
it. That's why he made it easy."

"If you think it's easy," I retorted, "take it yourself and see what you can make of it."

"That's a good idea," Cumshaw cut in, turning my own shaft against myself. "Suppose we all
have a shot at it and see what we can make of it. We might get it all out and again we mightn't.
When we get as far as we can we'll all pool our efforts, and maybe we'll make something out
of it that way."

"An excellent suggestion, Mr. Cumshaw," Moira said, and darted a glance of triumph at me. It
said as plainly as so many words that here was a champion for her, a man who would defend her
against the whole world. Of course I ignored it. What man would do anything else under the
circumstances? But there are some things, of which this was one, that the more one ignores
them the more insistent as to their presence do they become. So, though I affected not to see
Moira's little glance of triumph, it photographed itself upon my mind's eye and completely
spoiled the evening for me.

"We'll get Jim here to type out a copy for you before you go, Mr. Cumshaw," she promised, "and
you can see what you can make of it."

"Thanks," said the young man briefly. I had expected him to make a bigger mouthful of it than
that, and I thought it odd that he did not. It struck me too as queer that he did not ask for
a look at the cypher; an ordinary man would have known no peace until he had examined it in
all its baffling details. As I was to learn, Mr. Cumshaw was no ordinary man, and, for a young
chap of his age, had his emotions and inclinations under rather remarkable control.

I stood up. "If you want that cypher," I said, "I'll type it out now, and you can study it
on the way home if you wish."

"It's very kind of you," Cumshaw murmured with a well-bred lack of enthusiasm.

"I think," said Moira, "that we'd all better adjourn to the study. I don't like to think of
anyone being in there alone, especially at night. You see," she explained to Cumshaw, "the
room hasn't been used since Uncle's death. He was killed in that very room ... in front of
my eyes."

"I understand," said Cumshaw softly, and he rose to his feet and held the door open for Moira
to pass out. She led the way to the study and unlocked the door. It had been a fad of hers
ever since the tragedy to keep the room sealed, and, as I saw no reason for gainsaying her,
I had never interfered. She switched on the light and we stood for a moment on the threshold,
dazzled by the unaccustomed radiance. Nothing in the place had been touched--we had not disturbed
anything during our search for Bryce's papers--and, save for the absence of some of the actors
in the scene, it might have been the very night of the tragedy itself.

I broke the spell by walking into the room and proceeding to take the cover off the typewriter.
The machine had not been used since its owner had died. Despite the manner in which I had lied
to Bryce, I knew a thing or two about typewriters. As a matter of fact I transcribed the greater
part of my father's three volumes of Solomon Island Ethnology on just such another machine.
I sat down at the table and drew from my pocket the letter and the cypher, both of which I
had thrust out of sight when Albert Cumshaw had been announced that afternoon.

"There's the cypher," I said, and I spread the sheet out on the table.

Cumshaw bent over it and read out aloud from beginning to end.

"What do you make of it?" I asked.

He looked up at me with just the flicker of a smile about the corners of his mouth. "I can't
say just yet," he replied. "All these things take time. You can't solve them in an instant."

"I thought we might," I said, with just the least hint of offensiveness in my tone. I don't
know whether or not he noticed it, but if he did he was gentleman enough to ignore it.

"All right," I ran on, "I'll type this out if one of you'll read it to me. Go slowly, as I
don't want to have any mistakes. It's bad enough to have to do it once without having to do
it again."

"I'll read it," Cumshaw volunteered. I nodded to show my agreement. I then threaded the paper
through and said, "I'm ready."

He began to read it very slowly and carefully, and I typed away as he spoke. I had just got
the first four or five combinations down when Moira interrupted me.

"I knew you'd make a mess of it," she said coldly. "I told you so at the beginning." As a matter
of fact she had said no such thing, but I let it pass.

"What's wrong?" I queried, looking up at her.

"I've been watching you," said she, "and you haven't depressed your figure lever once. You
must have it all wrong. It'll just be simple letters instead of the signs."

I had been typing all the time with my eyes on the keyboard, and I hadn't once glanced at the
finished work. Now I looked at it I saw that she was right. I had been typing letters all along
when I should have been printing figures. And then something queer about the letters struck
me. My heart gave a jump.

"Go on," I said huskily to Cumshaw. "Give me a few more."

He read out two or three more combinations and then I leaned back in the chair. "Look," I said
triumphantly, "look what I've done!"

Two heads bobbed down over my work, stared at it for a moment, and then two pairs of eyes smiled
at me.

"You've solved it by accident," said Cumshaw.

"I'm sorry for what I said," Moira said simply.

"It's just the simplest cypher in existence," I said. "You've got a keyboard with letters and
figures on it. When you want letters you type straight out, and when you want figures you just
depress the lever. Now look at this. That 5 is on the same key as T, @ is on H's key, 3 means
E, and so on. When Bryce worked it out he simply pressed down the figure lever and left it
down, and now to reverse the process all we've got to do is to hit the keys these signs are
on and leave the lever alone. Simple, isn't it?"

"Very," said Cumshaw.

"Get it all out, Jim, quick!" said Moira with feminine impatience.

I did. I pressed 2 and I got W, and so on all along the keyboard, and when I had finished I
pulled the sheet out and handed it to them. "Read it out, Moira," I said. "It's your turn."

"'When the Lone Tree, the hut door and the rising sun are in line measure seven feet east.
Then face direct north, draw another line at right angles to previous one, extending for twelve
feet. Dig then.'"

"If it hadn't been for you," said Cumshaw, "we wouldn't have found it. I congratulate you,"
and he held out his hand to me.

"Rubbish!" I said. "It was all a lucky accident." But all the same I took the proffered hand.

"We can go right on with it now," Moira cried joyously. "There's nothing to stop us."

"Only that we've got to find the valley yet," said Cumshaw gloomily. "My father made several
attempts but couldn't locate it."

"You've got to bear in mind," I told them, "that we've got some information your father hadn't,
strange though it seems."

"And that?" Cumshaw queried quickly.

"We're looking for a valley that's got a lone tree overlooking it. Your father didn't seem
to be aware of that."

Cumshaw seized the paper and read it through quickly. "By the Lord Harry, you're right, Carstairs!
That's one piece of information he didn't have. If he had known that when he went after the
gold himself he'd have got it."

"Maybe he would," I said doubtfully.

"You don't seem too sure of it, Carstairs," Cumshaw remarked, with a sidelong glance at Moira.

"No more I am," I told him. "I don't like our chances either."

"But," he protested with a puzzled indrawing of his eyebrows, "as far as we're concerned it's
as easy as falling off a log."

"Just as easy," I agreed, "providing our friends the enemy don't interfere. They don't seem
to be the kind of men who rest on their oars, that is if we can judge anything from their past
exploits."

"You're right there, Carstairs," Cumshaw said. "I never gave them a thought, but I see now
that they're likely to prove a pretty active menace to our safety."

"That," I said, turning to Moira, "cuts out all possibility of your coming with us. You can't
be running into danger."

"Can't I just," she said with an assertive toss of her head, "and, whether I can or not, I'm
going," she finished.

I looked at Cumshaw. I could not tell from his expression whether he was pleased or sorry.
His face was as devoid of emotion as that of a china doll.

"What do you think about it?" I asked him straight out.

He glanced at me in his turn with a curious baffling light in his dark eyes, and I felt as
if he had stripped my soul bare of all pretences and was reading my thoughts in all their nakedness.

"I should think," he said at length with an air of absolute impartiality, "that Miss Drummond
is the mistress of her own actions and neither you nor I have any right to dictate what she
is to do."

"Have it your own way then," I said, with difficulty suppressing my rising anger. "But if anything
goes wrong remember that I warned you beforehand."

"I'll remember that," Moira said, and she favored Cumshaw with a little smile of gratitude.
She never smiled at me like that, not even in those far-away days when we were all the world
to each other or thought we were. Which in the end amounts to much the same thing.

"Well, if you don't mind," said Cumshaw, breaking an awkward silence, "I'll go home now and
think matters over. And then to-morrow we'll decide what to do."

"Home?" I echoed. "I thought----" And then I stopped.

"I'm staying in town," he said with a smile. "That's what I meant when I said home."

"In that case," I said, "you'll be handy whenever we want you. You'd better leave your address
in case we want you in a hurry."

He scribbled his address--a leading city hotel--on a blank card and handed it to me. I glanced
at it and then thrust it into my pocket. When I looked up again he was holding Moira's hand
in his, just a trifle longer than convention demanded I thought, and saying something to her
that I did not catch. She smiled in return, a dazzling smile, and said quite distinctly, "Please
call whenever you feel inclined. There is no need for us to stand on ceremony with each other
now we're partners."

I saw him to the door. At the threshold he turned and spoke with one foot on the step and the
other on the ground, taking up that attitude of unaffected ease that gives an air of friendliness
to even the most formal conversation.

"I'm rather pleased I met you, Carstairs," he said. "In one way and another I've heard a lot
about you, and I think you've got the kind of level head we'll need before we've seen this
business through."

"Thank you," I replied. I was nearly going to say 'Soft words butter no parsnips,' but my common-sense
came to my aid just in time to prevent me making a fool of myself. He held out his hand, and
I took it in the spirit in which he had offered it to me. Nevertheless I was absurdly jealous
of the man, though Heaven knows I hadn't the least reason to be. I could see with half an eye
that he had made a good impression on Moira, and the way she had spoken to him, especially
that last remark of hers, showed me that she was egging him on. It didn't matter one single
solitary damn to me. I had told her clearly and definitely that we were business partners and
that love was altogether out of the question. Yet here was I, the moment a potential rival
appeared on the scene, behaving for all the world like a spoilt child. And, like a spoilt child,
for my own good I needed someone to bring me sharply and suddenly to my bearings.

Cumshaw bade me a cheerful good-night. I saw his lithe figure swing along through the sub-tropical
darkness of a moonless summer night. Then the latch on the gate clicked with the ringing sound
of metal striking against metal. I closed the door and went inside.

Moira was standing in the study just as I had left her, standing as motionless and devoid of
life as a statue of carven stone. I don't think she heard me at first.

"Well," I said conversationally, "how is it now?"

She turned at the sound of my voice and faced me squarely. I could see that her eyes were bright
with unshed tears, and something inside of me moved me with a sudden impulse to go up to her.
I placed my hands on her shoulders and was amazed to find how unsteady they were. They trembled,
my hands trembled! And yet they used to tell me in the old Island days that I hadn't a nerve
in my body.

I was quite prepared for anything except what really happened. I could feel a sort of tension
in the atmosphere, and I expected her to do something theatrical. But she didn't. She backed
away from me, but she didn't go far. The table was behind her.

I don't know how long we stood looking at each other. It seemed a lifetime to me, and the silence
was the sort that a man feels it sacrilege to break.

"You make it very hard for me, Jim," Moira said calmly. The tears were still in her eyes, but
her voice was under excellent control. It didn't vibrate a note. She looked at me as she spoke,
looked me straight in the eyes, and I think it was then that I began to realise what an ass
I had been making of myself.

"How do I make it hard?" I asked. My voice was curiously low, almost husky in fact. I rather
think she noticed it and took heart therefrom. A man is very easy to handle when he is not
quite sure of himself.

"I've got to pretend," she said in answer to my question. "Pretend that you are nothing to
me when----"

She stopped short. It seemed almost as if she regretted that she had said so much.

"Go on," I urged.

"There's not much to say," she continued. "I just want to tell you, to tell you in such a way
that you'll believe me, that if I've treated you shamefully I've suffered for it. I can't make
any reparation for it; you were quite right in saying that it is too late now to alter things.
I just want you to know that I'm sorry. I can't say much more than that, though I don't want
to take any credit for it now, seeing that it's been practically forced out of me."

I remembered the way she had been standing when I came in, the tears in her eyes, and the way
she had backed out of my reach the moment I put my hands on her shoulders. It would have been
so easy for her to have done the other thing, but she hadn't, and I admired her all the more
for it. She might easily have captured me in the first flush of emotion, but she had instead
given me time to think and a chance to get away if I wanted to. There was something in her
attitude that appealed to my sense of fair play and at the same time prevented me from in any
way misinterpreting her last remark.

"Moira," I said, "were you crying when I came in just now?"

Her lip trembled a little as she asked, "Why do you want to know?"

"Because," I said slowly, "I've solved one riddle already to-night, and I've a mind to solve
another before I go to bed."

"I was crying," she admitted, "only I didn't mean you to see."

"And why was that?"

"I thought you might imagine I was just doing it."

I knew what she meant; there was no need for her to explain further. She didn't want to influence
me in any way; whatever I did must be done of my own free will.

"I'm beginning to understand," I said slowly.

"Then you'll forgive?" she said quickly, and one hand went up to her throat as if she were choking.

I nodded and impulsively she held out her hand to me. I did not take it, and she half-turned
so that I would not see what was in her eyes.

"Can't we even be friends?" she said, with a queer little catch in her words.

Something snapped in my head at that, and the words I had been holding back all the evening
came to my lips in a rush of speech.

"I didn't mean you to take it that way," I said desperately. "I wouldn't shake hands because
... that's not what I want. It's too stand-offish. I'm going to do more than forgive, and we're
going to me more than friends, if you still want me."

"You know I want you," she said softly with her head bowed shyly and the blushes rising in
her cheeks.

I took her in my arms and kissed her.

CHAPTER II.

OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY.

Once we had definitely fixed the date of our departure we lost no time in making ready. As
the days went by I began to see more and more clearly that it was just as well I had thrown
in my lot with Moira and young Cumshaw. Neither of them had the least idea of organisation,
and they seemed to think that things just happened of their own accord. Moira couldn't see
anything else but the glamor and romance of the adventure, and I found that, for all his cleverness,
Albert Cumshaw did not know what was essential to the expedition and what wasn't.

"We can't start off like a picnic party," I said to them on one occasion, "and just wander
on until we come to a likely spot. We've got to have everything planned out right down to the
last box of matches and the last cartridge."

Cumshaw drew a deep breath. "Cartridges!" he said, "Are you talking figuratively?"

"No," I answered. "I'm speaking literally. It might yet be the case of the last cartridge.
You must remember that, even if we get the gold and come back here in safety, we're still not
out of the wood. We're not safe until our friends the enemy are removed from our paths for ever."

"You mean that they must be killed?" Moira demanded.

"I don't mean anything of the kind," I answered. "As a matter of fact I've got a perfect horror
of killing people. It makes such a mess, and I'm naturally a rather tidy person."

Cumshaw laughed softly, but Moira bit her lip, though she made no reply to what I had said.

"Now, while we're talking about it," I ran on, "I just want to impress on you the fact that
we aren't going off into the bush--not the kind of bush that you read about in books, where
it's all scrub and myall blacks and things like that. Most of the time we'll be within coo-ee
of civilisation. Most of Western Victoria's pretty well settled, and it's just the luck of
the game and the formation of the country that this valley's remained so long hidden away.
We'll be near enough to people all the time to be noticeable if we do anything remarkable.
We've got to go to work so that we'll attract as little attention as possible. We'll want food,
enough for several weeks, I suppose, and we've got to get it and take it with us, and do it
all in such a way that nobody's going to wonder what we're after. Another thing that that reminds
me of. Miss Drummond here had better keep out of sight as long as she can. We two can manage
to escape observation, but people always want to know what a woman's doing in it when there's
anything suspicious happening."

"If you mean by that that you think I can be turned back at the last moment, you're making
a mistake," Moira informed me.

"I don't mean that," I said calmly, "but I want to take every precaution that I can. I'm in
charge of this expedition, elected by three votes to nothing, and I'm going to run things the
way I think best. It mightn't be the best way in the end, but that's quite another matter.
I haven't wandered across the world from Yokohama to the White Nile and from the Klondyke to
the Solomons without knowing how to organise an expedition."

"You're right there," Cumshaw acknowledged. "You're the only one amongst us who's had practical
experience. In future what you say goes."

"That's the spirit," I said briskly. "What have you to say, Moira?"

"You know best," she answered. "As long as you don't leave me out altogether I'll agree to
anything, but I want to take my share of the risk too."

"Apparently," I remarked, "everyone's afraid that everybody else'll have the lion's share of
the fighting. Well, if I can fix it, there'll not be any fighting at all."

"What do you mean?" Cumshaw asked interestedly.

"That's nothing to do with the situation at present," I informed him. "You'll all see when
the time's ripe. Now what's next?"

"There's nothing more that I know of," Cumshaw volunteered.

"And you, Moira?"

"I think I've got everything fixed," she answered.

"That means we can start at the end of the week," I said with satisfaction. "It looks as if
fortune's turning our way at last."

The three of us laughed together, and Cumshaw I think it was who said, "Success to the expedition!"
It sounded very nice, and we were all so sure that things were going to turn out well. But
there was one little point that all of us had overlooked, and that was destined in one way
and another to upset our plans to a remarkable extent.

Profiting by Bryce's experience, I decided to leave the car at home, as I realised that we
would have to abandon it sooner or later, and nothing is so apt to set foolish people talking
as an apparently ownerless car. I resolved on making our headquarters at the spot where by
all accounts the unlamented Mr. Bradby had met his death. For one thing all the later developments
of the chase had centred round that one spot, and Bryce himself had gone there unhesitatingly
by the shortest and most direct route he knew of. I couldn't see at the time where I could
find a better jumping-off place. To say the least it was a fixed point from which to start
exploring, and we had the comforting knowledge, though it might not be of any practical use
to us, that the valley itself was within two or three days' march. With it as the centre we
would have to cast a circle with a radius of anything up to fifty miles, and then somewhere
within the enclosed area we might, or might not, find the elusive vale that held the treasure.

We approached the rendezvous by widely divergent routes. It was a rather extravagant precaution,
no doubt, but then I wasn't taking any risks that I could possibly avoid. The murderous gentlemen
who were quite certainly on our track were a power to be reckoned with, and at the same time
we had to keep our eyes open for the law itself. It was all right for Bryce to say that he
was playing within the law--quite possibly he was--but I had no idea of paying any percentage
to the Crown. I was rather hazy on the matter myself, though I seemed to have heard somewhere
or other that the Government always gobbled a big share of the loot in the case of treasure
trove. At any rate the quieter we kept the expedition the less likelihood there was of us having
to pay anything at all.

Moira was to travel with me from Murtoa, and Cumshaw decided to train as far as Landsborough--the
recently opened Crowlands to Navarre railway would take him that far--and then do the rest
across the hills on foot. His was the longer and more difficult route, and I had intended at
first to take it myself, for reasons that have nothing at all to do with this tale; but he
was so insistent, and at one stage threatened so much unpleasantness, that I gave into him,
if only for the sake of peace. Before we started I had another talk with Moira and endeavored
to dissuade her from accompanying us, but she very calmly told me that she had additional reasons
now for going with us. There was sure to be trouble, she admitted that much; but then wasn't
her place by my side, more especially if things weren't all they should be? Her logic left
much to be desired, but it had the one merit of achieving its object. It was devastating; it
completely crushed all my arguments and left me without a leg to stand on.

The late March of the year 1919 saw the three of us at the rendezvous, which we had reached
without incident of any sort. Contrary to our expectations the other party had not been sighted,
and the outlook was certainly auspicious. For all that I felt worried. Everything was going
along too swimmingly, and I had a queer feeling that we would meet with trouble very shortly,
if only to even things up. Ease and success can only be won after much expenditure of blood
and tears; there is not a thing in life worth trying for that can be bought with a minimum
of effort. The greater the prize, the greater the price one must pay; always one pays, with
health, with limbs, sometimes with life itself.

During the time Moira and I had been travelling together I had slept of a night with one eye
more or less open, and the strain of being constantly on the alert was just beginning to tell
on me. As a consequence I was very pleased when Cumshaw suggested that we should take watch
and watch about. I agreed, with the reservation that I must always be on guard for the dawn-watch.
I didn't explain why I was so anxious to take that particular watch, and, though I noticed
Moira looking curiously at me, she made no remark. I knew from experience that men are at their
sleepiest about four o'clock in the morning, and an attack can be successfully launched then
that would fail at any other hour of the day or night. I had yet to test Cumshaw on active
service, so I claimed the four o'clock stretch for my own. It doesn't hurt to be careful; I've
never yet met anyone who was sorry he had taken precautions.

We camped within a hundred yards of the creek, and after supper Cumshaw and I sprawled on the
grass and talked. Moira had retired to an improvised tent we had fashioned for her, and, as
it was just out of earshot, we were free to speak our thoughts. I had not seen Cumshaw for
the better part of two weeks--he had started from his own place and come right on from there
without calling on me again--and I hoped that he might have some further news for me. I asked
him casually how his father was getting on.

"Right enough," he said, blowing a cloud of smoke out of his mouth. "Some days you wouldn't
think there was a thing wrong with him. He'll talk pretty lucidly at times, but it isn't anything
that can be of any use to us. He doesn't seem to have taken much notice of the position of
the valley, he apparently thought at the time that it would be very simple to pick it up again,
and I fancy that Bradby must have confirmed him in that view. He couldn't have taken into account
the way they had twisted about in the mountains. It's the simplest thing in the world to lose
yourself here, the more so if you're confident you know your way."

"You've about struck it there," I said. "I just want to give you a little piece of advice,
and I hope you won't take it amiss. I don't want to talk about this expedition any more than
I can help for two reasons. One's this: I don't wish to cause Miss Drummond any more uneasiness
than is absolutely necessary. You know as well as I do that there's a big chance of the lot
of us being wiped out just about the time we get within sight of the end. I wouldn't be surprised
if they let us walk into a trap and finished us at their leisure. As for the other reason--well,
it's never safe to say that you're alone anywhere. If we raise our voices above whispers here
we might be giving away valuable information. So just let us keep watch on our tongues. More
hopes have been ruined and more chances of success spoilt by gabbling tongues than by any other
dozen causes all rolled together."

"I can quite understand that," Cumshaw said, between puffs at his pipe. It was one of those
neat little affairs with a round bowl, a spick-and-span pipe that had burnt an even color and
that shone as brightly as the day he bought it. My pipe was a sorrier article; it was battered
and blackened, and one side of the bowl was down beneath the level of the other, showing that
it had been lighted oftener with a blazing brand than with the orthodox matches. In a way it
was like its owner; it had been tested by fire and had survived the test. If I were philosophical--but
then I wasn't, and that's about all there is to it.

"I didn't go to Landsborough," Cumshaw said after a pause. "I missed my train at Ararat, and
so I came on to Great Western. It's much the shorter way. I wish you had known of it before."

"I'm all the better pleased you came that way," I told him. "It will help to disorganise the
chase."

He bent over, picked up a live coal in his bare fingers and applied it to his pipe before replying.

"I rather think," he said slowly, "that it will have just the opposite effect."

"You can't have any nerves in those fingertips of yours," I said. "Why will it?"

"I don't seem to have any, do I? I think I saw one of the men at Great Western."

"You don't know them," I said. "How could you?"

"Mr. Bryce described them in his letter," Cumshaw answered. "This man fitted the description
of one of them, a dark sort of chap."

"Spanish type?" I queried.

Cumshaw nodded. "I wonder why it is," he ran on, "that we're always more suspicious of that
sort of man than, say, a fair type?"

"Relic of the Armada, I suppose," I suggested. "Tell me all about the man you saw."

"I was coming along the roadside," Cumshaw began, "past one of the vineyards, when I noticed
a man working close at hand. I was just going to pass by when it struck me that he was the
only person about. I thought that rather queer and I gave him a second look. Then I saw that
he wasn't digging, as I had thought at first, but that he was scratching aimlessly at the ground.
One of those queer feelings that seem altogether unrelated to fact crept over me. Call it second
sight or any other fancy name you please, the fact remains that I suddenly knew--not thought,
mind you; I knew--that he did not want me to notice him and that he was pretending to be one
of the workmen, just so that I would pass him by without more than a cursory glance. When I
came to think it over afterwards, I remembered that it struck me when first I saw him that
he was the only man I had seen in the vineyards for miles. Of course I had that idea in my
mind when I looked at him the second time. That doesn't explain how I understood that I was
the very man he did not want to see. He had his head bent down naturally, his hat well drawn
over his face, and he went on scratching and scraping as if his very life depended on the energy
with which he worked. I didn't get more than a passing glimpse of him, and that wasn't too
good--you can't go over to a man and pull off his hat just because he looks suspicious--but
I'd swear on a stack of Bibles that he's one of the men we'll have to deal with."

"Perhaps so," I said. "At any rate I'm not going to allow chance workers in the fields to rob
me of my night's rest."

"No more am I," assented Cumshaw. "So you don't think there's any likelihood----."

"I don't think anything at all," I cut in. "I take proper precautions, that's all."

