The towering flames had now surmounted every obstruction, and rose to the evening skies one
huge and burning beacon, seen far and wide through the adjacent country. Tower after tower
crashed down, with blazing roof and rafter; and the combatants were driven from the courtyard.
The vanquished, of whom very few remained, scattered and escaped into the neighboring wood.
The victors, assembling in large bands, gazed with wonder, not unmixed with fear, upon the
flames, in which their own ranks and arms glanced dusky red. The maniac figure of the Saxon
Ulrica was for a long time visible on the lofty stand she had chosen, tossing her arms abroad
with wild exultation, as if she reigned empress of the conflagration which she had raised.
At length, with a terrific crash, the whole turret gave way, and she perished in the flames
which had consumed her tyrant. An awful pause of horror silenced each murmur of the armed spectators,
who, for the space of several minutes, stirred not a finger, save to sign the cross. The voice
of Locksley was then heard--"Shout, yeomen! the den of tyrants is no more! Let each bring his
spoil to our chosen place of rendezvous at the trysting-trees in the Harthill Walk; for there
at break of day will we make just partition among our own bands, together with our worthy allies
in this great deed of vengeance."

THE DEATH OF HECTOR

From HOMER'S ILIAD [Footnote: One of the greatest poems that has ever been written is the Iliad,
an epic of great length dealing with the siege of Troy. The author is generally considered
to be the old Greek poet and singer Homer. although some authorities believe that the poem
was not all written by any one man.

The selection from the Iliad which is given here is from the translation by Alexander Pope.
The passage has been abridged somewhat.]

NOTE.--Of all the mythical or half-mythical events which the ancient Greeks believed formed
a part of their early history, there is none about which more stories have grown up than the
Trojan War. According to the Greek belief, this struggle took place somewhere in the twelfth
century B. C., but it now seems entirely likely that there was really no such contest, and
that the stories told about it were but myths.

To the marriage of Peleus with the sea-nymph Thetis, all the gods were invited except Eris,
or Discord, who, angered at the slight, determined to have vengeance. She took, therefore,
a most beautiful golden apple on which were inscribed the words For The Fairest, and tossed
it into the midst of the merry wedding party. Instantly a dispute arose, Juno, queen of the
gods, Minerva, goddess of wisdom, and Venus, goddess of love and beauty, each claiming the
fruit. Finally it was decided to leave the choice to an impartial judge, and Paris, son of
Priam, the old king of Troy, was chosen.

Paris was utterly ignorant of the fact that he was the son of the king, having been banished
from his home in his infancy because a prophecy had foretold that he should bring about the
destruction of his native city. Rescued and brought up by a shepherd, he lived a simple shepherd's
life on Mount Ida.

When the three radiant goddesses stood before him he was overcome with the difficulty of his
task, and each of the three attempted to help him out by offering a bribe. Juno offered prosperity
through life, Minerva wisdom and influence, but Venus, smiling slyly, promised him the love
of the most beautiful woman in the world. Moved not by this bribe, but by the unsurpassable
beauty of Venus, Paris awarded her the apple, and thus gained for himself and for his people
the hatred of Juno and Minerva.

Later Paris was received back into his father's palace, and was sent on an embassy to the home
of Menelaus, king of Sparta, in Greece. While at the home of Menelaus, Paris fell in love with
Helen, the wife of his host, the most beautiful woman in the world, and persuaded her to return
to Troy with him. Thoroughly roused, Menelaus sought the aid of the other Grecian kings in
his attempt to get back his wife and punish the Trojans for the treachery of their prince,
and a huge expedition under the command of Agamemnon, brother of Menelaus, set out for Troy.
The Grecian army could make no immediate head against the Trojans, and for nine years it encamped
outside the city of Troy, attempting to bring about its downfall. Battles and contests between
single champions were frequent, but neither side seemed able to win any permanent victory.

Achilles was the bravest and strongest of the Grecian heroes, and all looked to him as the
man through whom success must come. However, he became angered at Agamemnon and withdrew from
the contest, and victory seemed about to fall to the Trojans. One day Patroclus, the friend
and kinsman of Achilles, distressed at the Greek fortunes, removed of Achilles his armor, and
at the head of Achilles's own men, went forth to do battle with the Trojans. He was slain by
Hector, the son of Priam, the bravest of the Trojan defenders, and in anger at his friend's
death, Achilles returned to the conflict. The battle was waged outside the city, and owing
to the prowess of Achilles, matters looked bad for the Trojans.

Apollo, god of light, who favored the Trojans, took upon himself the form of a Trojan warrior,
and while appearing to flee, drew Achilles after him, and thus allowed the Trojans to gain
the shelter of the city walls. The selection from the Iliad given here begins just as Apollo
throws off his disguise and reveals his identity to Achilles.

  Thus to their bulwarks, smit with panic fear,
  The herded Ilians* rush like driven deer:
  There safe they wipe the briny drops away,
  And drown in bowls the labors of the day.
  Close to the walls, advancing o'er the fields
  Beneath one roof of well-compacted shields,
  March, bending on, the Greeks' embodied powers,
  Far stretching in the shade of Trojan towers.
  Great Hector singly stay'd: chain'd down by fate
  There fix'd he stood before the Scaean gate;
  Still his bold arms determined to employ,
  The guardian still of long-defended Troy.

   *[Footnote: Ilium, or Ilion, was another name for Troy,
     and the Ilians were Trojans.]

    Apollo now to tired Achilles turns
  (The power confess'd in all his glory burns):
  "And what," he cries, "has Peleus'* son in view,
  With mortal speed a godhead to pursue?
  For not to thee to know the gods' is given,
  Unskill'd to trace the latent marks of heaven.
  What boots thee now, that Troy forsook the plain?
  Vain thy past labor, and thy present vain:
  Safe in their walls are now her troops bestow'd,
  While here thy frantic rage attacks a god."

   *[Footnote: Achilles was the son of Peleus and the sea-nymph Thetis.]

    The chief incensed--"Too partial god of day!
  To check my conquests in the middle way:
  How few in Ilion else had refuge found!
  What gasping numbers now had bit the ground!
  Thou robb'st me of a glory justly mine,
  Powerful of godhead, and of fraud divine:
  Mean fame, alas! for one of heavenly strain,
  To cheat a mortal who repines in vain."

    Then to the city, terrible and strong,
  With high and haughty steps he tower'd along,
  So the proud courser, victor of the prize,
  To the near goal with double ardor flies.
  Him, as he blazing shot across the field,
  The careful eyes of Priam* first beheld
  Not half so dreadful rises to the sight
  Through the thick gloom of some tempestuous night,
  Orion's dog* (the year when autumn weighs),
  And o'er the feebler stars exerts his rays;
  Terrific glory! for his burning breath
  Taints the red air with fevers, plagues, and death,
  So flamed his fiery mail. Then wept the sage:
  He strikes his reverend head, now white with age;
  He lifts his wither'd arms; obtests* the skies;
  He calls his much-loved son with feeble cries:
  The son, resolved Achilles' force to dare,
  Full at the Scaean gates expects* the war;
  While the sad father on the rampart stands,
  And thus adjures him with extended hands:

   *[Footnote: Priam was the old king of Troy, father of Hector.]
   *[Footnote: Orion's dog means Sirius, the dog star, which was
     believed by the ancients to be a star of very bad omen.]
   *[Footnote: Obtests means entreats.]
   *[Footnote: Expects here means awaits.]

    "Ah stay not, stay not! guardless and alone;
  Hector! my loved, my dearest, bravest son!
  Mehinks already I behold thee slain,
  And stretch'd beneath that fury of the plain,
  Implacable Achilles! might'st thou be
  To all the gods no dearer than to me!
  Thee, vultures wild should scatter round the shore,
  And bloody dogs grow fiercer from thy gore.
  How many valiant sons I late enjoy'd,
  Valiant in vain! by thy cursed arm destroy'd,
  Or, worse than slaughter'd, sold in distant isles
  To shameful bondage, and unworthy toils,
  What sorrows then must their sad mother know,
  What anguish I? unutterable woe!
  Yet less that anguish, less to her, to me,
  Less to all Troy, if not deprived of thee.
  Yet shun Achilles! enter yet the wall;
  And spare thyself, thy father, spare us all!
  Save thy dear life; or, if a soul so brave
  Neglect that thought, thy dearer glory save.
  Pity, while yet I live, these silver hairs;
  While yet thy father feels the woes he bears,
  Yet cursed with sense! a wretch, whom in his rage
  (All trembling on the verge of helpless age)
  Great Jove has placed, sad spectacle of pain!
  The bitter dregs of fortune's cup to drain:
  To fill the scenes of death his closing eyes,
  And number all his days by miseries!
  Who dies in youth and vigor, dies the best,
  Struck through with wounds, all honest on the breast.
  But when the Fates* in fulness of their rage
  Spurn the hoar head of unresisting age,
  In dust the reverend lineaments deform,
  And pour to dogs the life-blood scarcely warm:
  This, this is misery! the last, the worst,
  That man can feel! man, fated to be cursed!"

   *[Footnote: The Fates were thought of by the ancient peoples as
     three old women, who spun the thread of human life, twisted it,
     and cut it off whenever they thought it was long enough.]

    He said, and acting what no words could say,
  Rent from his head the silver locks away.
  With him the mournful mother bears a part;
  Yet all her sorrow turn not Hector's heart.
  The zone unbraced, her bosom she display'd;
  And thus, fast-falling the salt tears, she said:

    "Have mercy on me, O my son! revere
  The words of age; attend a parent's prayer!
  If ever thee in these fond arms I press'd,
  Or still'd thy infant clamors at this breast;
  Ah, do not thus our helpless years forego,
  But, by our walls secured, repel the foe."

    So they,* while down their cheeks the torrents roll;
  But fix'd remains the purpose of his soul;
  Resolved he stands, and with a fiery glance
  Expects the hero's terrible advance.
  So, roll'd up in his den, the swelling snake
  Beholds the traveller approach the brake;
  When fed with noxious herbs his turgid veins
  Have gather'd half the poisons of the plains;
  He burns, he stiffens with collected ire,
  And his red eyeballs glare with living fire.*
  Beneath a turret, on his shield reclined,
  He stood, and question'd thus his mighty mind:

   *[Footnote: The word spoke is omitted here.]
   *[Footnote: Homer is famous for such comparisons as these. If you
     ever come across the term "Homeric simile," you may know that it
     means such a long, carefully worked out comparison as this.]

    "Where lies my way? to enter in the wall?
  Honor and shame the ungenerous thought recall:
  Shall proud Polydamas* before the gate
  Proclaim, his counsels are obeyed too late,
  Which timely follow'd but the former night
  What numbers had been saved by Hector's flight?
  That wise advice rejected with disdain,
  I feel my folly in my people slain.
  Methinks my suffering country's voice I hear,
  But most her worthless sons insult my ear,
  On my rash courage charge the chance of war,
  And blame those virtues which they cannot share.
  No--if I e'er return, return I must
  Glorious, my country's terror laid in dust:
  Or if I perish, let her see me fall
  In field at least, and fighting for her wall."

   *[Footnote: Polydamas, a Trojan hero and a friend of Hector's,
     had previously advised prudence and retreat within the wall.]

    Thus pondering, like a god the Greek drew nigh;
  His dreadful plumage nodded from on high;
  The Pelian* javelin, in his better hand,
  Shot trembling rays that glitter'd o'er the land;
  And on his breast the beamy splendor shone,
  Like Jove's own lightning, o'er the rising sun.
  As Hector sees, unusual terrors rise;
  Struck by some god, he fears, recedes, and flies.
  He leaves the gates, he leaves the wall behind:
  Achilles follows like the winged wind.
  Thus at the panting dove a falcon flies
  (The swiftest racer of the liquid skies),
  Just when he holds, or thinks he holds his prey,
  Obliquely wheeling through the aerial way,
  With open beak and shrilling cries he springs,
  And aims his claws, and shoots upon his wings:
  No less fore-right* the rapid chase they held,
  One urged by fury, one by fear impell'd:
  Now circling round the walls their course maintain,
  Where the high watch-tower overlooks the plain;
  Now where the fig-trees spread their umbrage broad,
  (A wider compass), smoke along the road.
  Next by Scamander's* double source they bound,
  Where two famed fountains burst the parted ground;
  This hot through scorching clefts is seen to rise,
  With exhalations streaming to the skies;
  That the green banks in summer's heat o'erflows,
  Like crystal clear, and cold as winter snows:
  Each gushing fount a marble cistern fills,
  Whose polished bed receives the falling rills;
  Where Trojan dames (ere yet alarm'd by Greece)
  Wash'd their fair garments in the days of peace.*
  By these they pass'd, one chasing, one in flight
  The mighty fled, pursued by stronger might:
  Swift was the course; no vulgar prize they play,
  No vulgar victim must reward the day:
  Such as in races crown the speedy strife:
  The prize contended was great Hector's life.

   *[Footnote: Pelian is an adjective formed from Peleus,
     the name of the father of Achilles.]
   *[Footnote: Fore-right means straight forward.]
   *[Footnote: The Scamander was a famous river that flowed near the
     city of Troy. According to the Iliad, its source was two springs,
     one a cold and one a hot spring.]
   *[Footnote: It was not, in these very ancient times, thought beneath
     the dignity of even a princess to wash her linen in some clear river
     or spring.]

    As when some hero's funerals are decreed
  In grateful honor of the mighty dead;*
  Where high rewards the vigorous youth inflame
  (Some golden tripod, or some lovely dame)
  The panting coursers swiftly turn the goal,
  And with them turns the raised spectator's soul:
  Thus three times round the Trojan wall they fly.
  The gazing gods lean forward from the sky.*

   *[Footnote: The favorite way, among the ancients, of doing honor to
     a man after his death was to hold a sort of a funeral festival,
     where contests in running, wrestling, boxing, and other feats of
     strength and skill were held.]
   *[Footnote: The gods play a very important part in the Iliad.
     Sometimes, as here, they simply watch the struggle from their home
     above Olympus; sometimes, as in the first lines of this selection,
     they actually descend to the battlefield and take part in the
     contest.]

    As through the forest, o'er the vale and lawn,
  The well-breath'd beagle drives the flying fawn,
  In vain he tries the covert of the brakes,
  Or deep beneath the trembling thicket shakes;
  Sure of the vapor* in the tainted dews,
  The certain hound his various maze pursues.
  Thus step by step, where'er the Trojan wheel'd,
  There swift Achilles compass'd round the field.
  Oft as to reach the Dardan* gates he bends,
  And hopes the assistance of his pitying friends,
  (Whose showering arrows, as he coursed below,
  From the high turrets might oppress the foe),
  So oft Achilles turns him to the plain:
  He eyes the city, but he eyes in vain.
  As men in slumbers seem with speedy pace,
  One to pursue, and one to lead the chase,
  Their sinking limbs the fancied course forsake,
  Nor this can fly, nor that can overtake;
  No less the laboring heroes pant and strain:
  While that but flies, and this pursues in vain.

   *[Footnote: Vapor here means scent.]
   *[Footnote: Dardan is an old word for Trojan.]

    What god, O Muse,* assisted Hector's force
  With fate itself so long to hold the course?
  Phoebus* it was; who, in his latest hour,
  Endued his knees with strength, his nerves with power.
  And great Achilles, lest some Greek's advance
  Should snatch the glory from his lifted lance,
  Sign'd to the troops to yield his foe the way,
  And leave untouch'd the honors of the day.

   *[Footnote: The Muses were nine sister goddesses who inspired poetry
     and music. No ancient Greek poet ever undertook to write without
     first seeking the aid of the Muse who presided over the particular
     kind of poetry that he was writing. Homer here addresses Calliope,
     the Muse of epic poetry.]
   *[Footnote: Phoebus is Apollo, whom at the opening of this selection
     we found aiding Hector by misleading Achilles.]

    Jove* lifts the golden balances, that show
  The fates of mortal men, and things below:
  Here each contending hero's lot he tries,
  And weighs, with equal hand, their destinies.
  Low sinks the scale surcharged with Hector's fate;
  Heavy with death it sinks, and hell receives the weight.

   *[Footnote: Jove, or Jupiter, was the king of gods and men.]

    Then Phoebus left him. Fierce Minerva* flies
  To stern Pelides,* and triumphing, cries:
  "O loved of Jove! this day our labors cease,
  And conquest blazes with full beams on Greece.
  Great Hector falls; that Hector famed so far,
  Drunk with renown, insatiable of war,
  Falls by thy hand, and mine! nor force, nor flight,
  Shall more avail him, nor his god of light.*
  See, where in vain he supplicates above,
  Roll'd at the feet of unrelenting Jove;
  Rest here: myself will lead the Trojan on,
  And urge to meet the fate he cannot shun."

   *[Footnote: Minerva, goddess of wisdom, was the special protector of
     the Greeks. Throughout the struggle she was anxious to take part
     against the Trojans, but much of the time Jupiter would not let her
     fight; he allowed her merely to advise.]
   *[Footnote: The ending--ides means son of. Thus Pelides means
     son of Peleus.]
   *[Footnote: The god of light was Apollo.]

    Her voice divine the chief with joyful mind
  Obey'd; and rested, on his lance reclined,
  While like Deiphobus* the martial dame
  (Her face, her gesture, and her arms the same),
  In show and aid, by hapless Hector's side
  Approach'd, and greets him thus with voice belied:

   *[Footnote: Deiphobus was one of the brothers of Hector. Minerva
     assumes his form, and deceives Hector into thinking that his
     brother has come to aid him.]

    "Too long, O Hector! have I borne the sight
  Of this distress, and sorrow'd in thy flight:
  It fits us now a noble stand to make,
  And here, as brothers, equal fates partake."

   Then he: "O prince! allied in blood and fame,
  Dearer than all that own a brother's name;
  Of all that Hecuba* to Priam bore,
  Long tried, long loved: much loved, but honor'd more!
  Since you, of all our numerous race alone
  Defend my life, regardless of your own."

   *[Footnote: Hecuba was the name of Hector's mother.]

    Again the goddess:* "Much my father's prayer,
  And much my mother's, press'd me to forbear:
  My friends embraced my knees, adjured my stay,
  But stronger love impell'd, and I obey.
  Come then, the glorious conflict let us try,
  Let the steel sparkle, and the javelin fly;
  Or let us stretch Achilles on the field,
  Or to his arm our bloody trophies yield."

   *[Footnote: Spoke, or said, is understood here.]

    Fraudful she said; then swiftly march'd before:
  The Dardan hero shuns his foe no more.
  Sternly they met. The silence Hector broke:
  His dreadful plumage nodded as he spoke;

    "Enough, O son of Peleus! Troy has view'd
  Her walls thrice circled, and her chief pursued
  But now some god within me bids me try
  Thine, or my fate: I kill thee, or I die.
  Yet on the verge of battle let us stay,
  And for a moment's space suspend the day;
  Let Heaven's high powers be call'd to arbitrate
  The just conditions of this stern debate
  (Eternal witnesses of all below,
  And faithful guardians of the treasured vow)!
  To them I swear; if, victor in the strife,
  Jove by these hands shall shed thy noble life,
  No vile dishonor shall thy corse pursue;
  Stripp'd of its arms alone (the conqueror's due)
  The rest to Greece uninjured I'll restore:
  Now plight thy mutual oath, I ask no more."*

   *[Footnote: It meant more to an ancient Greek to have his body
     given up to his family, that it might be buried with proper rite's,
     than it does to a modern soldier, for the Greeks believed that the
     soul could not find rest until the body was properly buried.
     This makes the refusal of Achilles to agree to Hector's request
     seem all the more cruel.]

    "Talk not of oaths" (the dreadful chief replies,
  While anger flash'd from his disdainful eyes),
  "Detested as thou art, and ought to be,
  Nor oath nor pact Achilles plights with thee:
  Such pacts as lambs and rabid wolves combine,
  Such leagues as men and furious lions join,
  To such I call the gods! one constant state
  Of lasting rancor and eternal hate:

  No thought but rage, and never-ceasing strife
  Till death extinguish rage, and thought, and life.
  Rouse then my forces this important hour,
  Collect thy soul, and call forth all thy power.
  No further subterfuge, no further chance;
  Tis Pallas,* Pallas gives thee to my lance.
  Each Grecian ghost, by thee deprived of breath,
  Now hovers round, and calls thee to thy death."

   *[Footnote: Pallas was another name for Minerva.]

    He spoke, and launch'd his javelin at the foe;
  But Hector shunn'd the meditated blow:
  He stoop'd, while o'er his head the flying spear,
  Sang innocent, and spent its force in air.
  Minerva watch'd it falling on the land,
  Then drew, and gave to great Achilles' hand,
  Unseen of Hector, who, elate with joy,
  Now shakes his lance, and braves the dread of Troy.

    "The life you boasted to that javelin given,
  Prince! you have miss'd. My fate depends on Heaven.
  To thee, presumptuous as thou art, unknown,
  Or* what must prove my fortune, or thy own.
  Boasting is but an art, our fears to blind,
  And with false terrors sink another's mind.
  But know, whatever fate I am to try,
  By no dishonest wound shall Hector die.
  I shall not fall a fugitive at least,
  My soul shall bravely issue from my breast.
  But first, try thou my arm; and may this dart
  End all my country's woes, deep buried in thy heart."

   *[Footnote: Or is here used instead of either.]

    The weapon flew, its course unerring held,
  Unerring, but the heavenly* shield repell'd
  The mortal dart; resulting with a bound
  From off the ringing orb it struck the ground.
  Hector beheld his javelin fall in vain,
  Nor other lance, nor other hope remain;
  He calls Deiphobus, demands a spear--
  In vain, for no Deiphobus was there.
  All comfortless he stands: then, with a sigh:
  "'Tis so--Heaven wills it, and my hour is nigh!
  I deem'd Deiphobus had heard my call,
  But he secure lies guarded in the wall.
  A god deceived me: Pallas, 'twas thy deed,
  Death and black fate approach; 'tis I must bleed.
  No refuge now, no succor from above.
  Great Jove deserts me, and the son of Jove,*
  Propitious once, and kind! Then welcome fate!
  'Tis true I perish, yet I perish great:
  Yet in a mighty deed I shall expire,
  Let future ages hear it, and admire!"

   *[Footnote: The armor of Achilles had been made for him by Vulcan,
     god of fire.]
   *[Footnote: This reference is to Apollo.]

    Fierce, at the word, his weighty sword he drew,
  And, all collected, on Achilles flew.
  So Jove's bold bird,* high balanced in the air,
  Stoops from the clouds to truss the quivering hare.
  Nor less Achilles his fierce soul prepares:
  Before his breast the flaming shield he bears
  Refulgent orb! above his fourfold cone
  The gilded horse-hair sparkled in the sun,
  Nodding at every step (Vulcanian frame!):
  And as he moved, his figure seem'd on flame.
  As radiant Hesper* shines with keener light,
  Far-beaming o'er the silver host of night,
  When all the starry train emblaze the sphere:
  So shone the point of great Achilles' spear.
  In his right hand he waves the weapon round,
  Eyes the whole man, and meditates the wound;
  But the rich mail Patroclus* lately wore
  Securely cased the warrior's body o'er.
  One space at length he spies, to let in fate,
  Where 'twixt the neck and throat the jointed plate
  Gave entrance: through that penetrable part
  Furious he drove the well-directed dart:
  Nor pierced the windpipe yet, nor took the power
  Of speech, unhappy! from thy dying hour.
  Prone on the field the bleeding warrior lies,
  While, thus triumphing, stern Achilles cries:

   *[Footnote: The eagle was sacred to Jove.]
   *[Footnote: Hesper was the old name for Venus, the evening star,
     the brightest of the planets.]
   *[Footnote: Patroclus was the friend of Achilles, whom Hector had
     killed. Hector had, after the usual custom, taken possession of
     the armor of Patroclus, which had originally belonged to Achilles.]

    "At last is Hector stretch'd upon the plain,
  Who fear'd no vengeance for Patroclus slain:
  Then, prince! you should have fear'd what now you feel;
  Achilles absent was Achilles still:
  Yet a short space the great avenger stayed,
  Then low in dust thy strength and glory laid.
  Peaceful he sleeps, with all our rites adorn'd,
  Forever honor'd, and forever mourn'd:
  While cast to all the rage of hostile power,
  Thee birds shall mangle, and the dogs' devour."

    Then Hector, fainting at the approach of death:
  By thy own soul! by those who gave thee breath!
  By all the sacred prevalence of prayer;
  Oh, leave me not for Grecian dogs to tear!
  The common rites of sepulture bestow,
  To soothe a father's and a mother's woe:
  Yet their large gifts procure an urn at least,
  And Hector's ashes in his county rest."

    "No, wretch accursed!" relentless he replies
  (Flames, as he spoke, shot flashing from his eyes);
  "Not those who gave me breath should bid me spare,
  For all the sacred prevalence of prayer,
  Would I myself the bloody banquet join!
  So--to the dogs that carcase I resign.
  Should Troy, to bribe me, bring forth all her store,
  And giving thousands, offer thousands more;
  Should Dardan Priam, and his weeping dame,
  Drain their whole realm to buy one funeral flame:
  Their Hector on the pile they should not see.
  Nor rob the vultures of one limb of thee."

    Then thus the chief his dying accents drew:
  "Thy rage, implacable! too well I knew:
  The Furies* that relentless breast have steel'd,
  And cursed thee with a heart that cannot yield.
  Yet think, a day will come, when fate's decree
  And angry gods shall wreak this wrong on thee;
  Phoebus and Paris shall avenge my fate,
  And stretch thee here before the Scaean gate."

   *[Footnote: The Furies were three hideous sisters who sometimes
     drove people mad with rage and remorse.]

    He ceased. The Fates suppress'd his laboring breath,
  And his eyes stiffen'd at the hand of death;
  To the dark realm the spirit wings its way
  (The manly body left a load of clay),
  And plaintive glides along the dreary coast,
  A naked, wandering, melancholy ghost!

    Achilles, musing as he roll'd his eyes
  O'er the dead hero, thus unheard, replies.
  "Die thou the first! When Jove and heaven ordain,
  I follow thee."--He said, and stripp'd the slain.
  Then forcing backward from the gaping wound
  The reeking javelin, cast it on the ground.
  The thronging Greeks behold with wondering eyes
  His manly beauty and superior size;
  While some, ignobler, the great dead deface
  With wounds ungenerous, or with taunts disgrace.

    "How changed that Hector, who like Jove of late
  Sent lightning on our fleets, and scatter'd fate!"

    High o'er the slain the great Achilles stands,
  Begirt with heroes and surrounding bands;
  And thus aloud, while all the host attends:
  "Princes and leaders! countrymen and friends!
  Since now at length the powerful will of heaven
  The dire destroyer to our arm has given,
  Is not Troy fallen already? Haste, ye powers!
  See, if already their deserted towers
  Are left unmann'd; or if they yet retain
  The souls of heroes, their great Hector slain.
  But what is Troy, or glory what to me?
  Or why reflects my mind on aught but thee,
  Divine Patroclus! Death hath seal'd his eyes;
  Unwept, unhonor'd, uninterr'd he lies!
  Can his dear image from my soul depart,
  Long as the vital spirit moves my heart?
  If in the melancholy shades below,
  The flames of friends and lovers cease to glow,
  Yet mine shall sacred last; mine, undecay'd,
  Burn on through death, and animate my shade.
  Meanwhile, ye sons of Greece, in triumph bring
  The corpse of Hector, and your paeans sing.
  Be this the song, slow-moving toward the shore,
  Hector is dead, and Ilion is no more."

    Then his fell soul a thought of vengeance bred
  (Unworthy of himself, and of the dead);
  The nervous* ancles bored, his feet he bound
  With thongs inserted through the double wound;
  These fix'd up high behind the rolling wain,
  His graceful head was trail'd along the plain.
  Proud on his car the insulting victor stood,
  And bore aloft his arms, distilling blood.
  He smites the steeds; the rapid chariot flies;
  The sudden clouds of circling dust arise.
  Now lost is all that formidable air;
  The face divine, and long-descending hair,
  Purple the ground, and streak the sable sand;
  Deform'd, dishonor'd, in his native land,
  Given to the rage of an insulting throng,
  And, in his parents' sight, now dragg'd along!

   *[Footnote: Nervous here means strong, sinewy.]

    The mother first beheld with sad survey;
  She rent her tresses, venerable gray,
  And cast, far off, the regal veils away.
  With piercing shrieks his bitter fate she moans,
  While the sad father answers groans with groans.
  Tears after tears his mournful cheeks o'erflow,
  And the whole city wears one face of woe:
  No less than if the rage of hostile fires,
  From her foundations curling to her spires,
  O'er the proud citadel at length should rise,
  And the last blaze send Ilion to the skies.

THE WOODEN HORSE

From VERGIL'S AENEID

NOTE.--As the Iliad is the greatest of Greek poems, so the Aeneid is the greatest of Latin
poems. It was written by Vergil, who lived in the first century B. C., and is one of the classics
which every one who studies Latin takes up. References to it are almost as frequent in literature
as are references to the Iliad, to which it is closely related. The translation from which
this selection of the Wooden Horse is taken is by John Conington.

The Iliad deals with the Trojan War (see introductory note to Death of Hector), while the Aeneid
deals with the wanderings of a Trojan hero after the fall of his city. Aeneas, from whom the
Aeneid takes its name, was the son of Anchises and Venus, goddess of love, and was one of the
bravest of the Trojan heroes; indeed, he was second only to Hector.

When Troy was taken by the stratagem which Aeneas describes in this selection, he set sail
with numerous followers for Italy, where fate had ordained that he should found a great nation.
Juno, however, who hated the Trojans, drove the hero from his course, and brought upon him
many sufferings. At last in his wanderings he came to the northern shore of Africa, where he
found a great city, Carthage. Dido, queen of the Carthaginians, received Aeneas hospitably,
and had prepared for him a great feast, at the conclusion of which she besought him to relate
to her the story of the fall of Troy. Aeneas objected at first, as he feared he could not endure
the pain which the recital would give him, but in the end he complied with her request.

The following selection gives the account of the stratagem by which the Greeks, after thirteen
years' siege, finally took Troy.

  Torn down by wars,
  Long beating 'gainst Fate's dungeon-bars,
    As year kept chasing year,*
  The Danaan* chiefs, with cunning given.
  By Pallas,* mountain-high to heaven
    A giant horse uprear,
  And with compacted beams of pine
  The texture of its ribs entwine,
  A vow for their return they feign:
  So runs the tale, and spreads amain.
  There in the monster's cavernous side
  Huge frames of chosen chiefs they hide,
  And steel-clad soldiery finds room
  Within that death-producing womb.

   *[Footnote: The Greeks besieged Troy, or Ilium, for nine years
     without making much head against it, and in the tenth year
     succeeded in taking the city only by fraud, which Aeneas here
     describes.]
   *[Footnote: Danaans is a poetical name for the Greeks.]
   *[Footnote: Pallas was Minerva, daughter of Jupiter, and one of the
     most powerful of the goddesses. She favored the Greeks, and longed
     to take their part against the Trojans, but was forbidden by Jupiter
     to aid them in any way except by advising them.]

    An isle there lies in Ilium's sight,
      And Tenedos its name,
  While Priam's fortune yet was bright,
    Known for its wealth to fame:
  Now all has dwindled to a bay,
  Where ships in treacherous shelter stay.

  Thither they sail, and hide their host
  Along its desolated coast.
  We thought them to Mycenae* flown
  And rescued Troy forgets to groan.
  Wide stand the gates: what joy to go
      The Dorian camp to see,
  The land disburthened of the foe,
      The shore from vessels free!
  There pitched Thessalia's squadron, there
      Achilles' tent was set:
  There, drawn on land, their navies were,
      And there the battle met.
  Some on Minerva's offering gaze,
  And view its bulk with strange amaze:
  And first Thymoetes loudly calls
  To drag the steed within our walls,
  Or by suggestion from the foe,
  Or Troy's ill fate had willed it so.
  But Capys and the wiser kind
  Surmised the snare that lurked behind:
  To drown it in the whelming tide,
  Or set the fire-brand to its side,
  Their sentence is: or else to bore
  Its caverns, and their depths explore.
  In wild confusion sways the crowd:
  Each takes his side and all are loud.

   *[Footnote: Mycenae was the capital city of Agamemnon, the leader
     of the Greeks in the Trojan War.]

    Girt with a throng of Ilium's sons,
  Down from the tower Laocoon runs,
  And, "Wretched countrymen," he cries,
  "What monstrous madness blinds your eyes?
  Think you your enemies removed?
      Come presents without wrong
  From Danaans? have you thus approved
      Ulysses,* known so long?
  Perchance--who knows?--the bulk we see
  Conceals a Grecian enemy,
  Or 'tis a pile to o'erlook the town,
  And pour from high invaders down,
  Or fraud lurks somewhere to destroy:
  Mistrust, mistrust it, men of Troy!
  Whate'er it be, a Greek I fear,
  Though presents in his hand he bear."
  He spoke, and with his arm's full force
  Straight at the belly of the horse
      His mighty spear he cast:
  Quivering it stood: the sharp rebound
  Shook the huge monster; and a sound
      Through all its caverns passed.
  And then, had fate our weal designed
  Nor given us a perverted mind,
  Then had he moved us to deface
  The Greeks' accursed lurking-place,
  And Troy had been abiding still,
  And Priam's tower yet crowned the hill.

   *[Footnote: Ulysses was the craftiest of the Greeks, the man to
     whom they appealed when in need of wise advice.]

  Now Dardan* swains before the king
  With clamorous demonstration bring,
  His hands fast bound, a youth unknown,
  Across their casual pathway thrown
  By cunning purpose of his own,
  If so his simulated speech
  For Greece the walls of Troy might breach,
  Nerved by strong courage to defy
  The worst, and gain his end or die.
  The curious Trojans round him flock,
  With rival zeal a foe to mock.
  Now listen while my tongue declares
  The tale you ask of Danaan snares,
  And gather from a single charge
  Their catalogue of crimes at large.
  There as he stands, confused, unarmed,
  Like helpless innocence alarmed,
  His wistful eyes on all sides throws,
  And sees that all around are foes,
  "What land," he cries, "what sea is left,
  To hold a wretch of country reft,
  Driven out from Greece while savage Troy
  Demands my blood with clamorous joy?"
  That anguish put our rage to flight,
  And stayed each hand in act to smite:
  We bid him name and race declare,
  And say why Troy her prize should spare.
  Then by degrees he laid aside
  His fear, and presently replied:

   *[Footnote: The Trojans were called Dardans, from Dardanus, the
     founder of Troy.]

    "Truth, gracious king, is all I speak,
  And first I own my nation Greek:
  No; Sinon may be Fortune's slave;
  She shall not make him liar or knave,
  If haply to your ears e'er came
  Belidan Palamedes'* name,
  Borne by the tearful voice of Fame,
  Whom erst, by false impeachment sped,
  Maligned because for peace he pled,
  Greece gave to death, now mourns him dead,--
  His kinsman I, while yet a boy,
  Sent by a needy sire to Troy.
  While he yet stood in kingly state,
  'Mid brother kings in council great,
  I too had power: but when he died,
  By false Ulysses' spite belied
  (The tale is known), from that proud height
  I sank to wretchedness and night,
  And brooded in my dolorous gloom
  On that my guiltless kinsman's doom.
  Not all in silence; no, I swore,
  Should Fortune bring me home once more,
  My vengeance should redress his fate,
  And speech engendered cankerous hate.
  Thence dates my fall: Ulysses thence
  Still scared me with some fresh pretence,
  With chance-dropt words the people fired,
  Sought means of hurt, intrigued, conspired.
  Nor did the glow of hatred cool,
  Till, wielding Calchas* as his tool--
  But why a tedious tale repeat,
  To stay you from your morsel sweet?
  If all are equal, Greek and Greek,
  Enough: your tardy vengeance wreak.
  My death will Ithacus* delights,
  And Atreus'* sons the boon requite."

   *[Footnote: It was Palamedes who induced Ulysses to join in the
     expedition against Troy. Preferring to remain at home with his
     wife Penelope and his infant son Telemachus, Ulysses pretended
     madness, and Palamedes, when he came to beg for his aid, found
     him plowing up the seashore and sowing it with salt. Palamedes
     was quite certain that the madness was feigned, and to test it,
     set Telemachus in front of the plow. By turning aside his plow,
     Ulysses showed that he was really sane. Later Palamedes lost
     favor with Grecian leaders because he urged them to give up the
     struggle and return home.]
   *[Footnote: Calchas was the most famous of the Grecian sooth-sayers
     or prophets. They never began any important operations until
     Calchas had first been consulted and had told them what the gods
     willed.]
   *[Footnote: Ithacus is a name given to Ulysses, who was from
     Ithaca.]
   *[Footnote: The sons of Atreus were Agamemnon, leader of the
     Grecians, and Menelaus, King of Sparta, the theft of whose wife,
     Helen, was cause of the Trojan War.]

    We press, we yearn the truth to know,
  Nor dream how doubly base our foe:
  He, faltering still and overawed,
  Takes up the unfinished web of fraud.
  "Oft had we planned to leave your shore,
  Nor tempt the weary conflict more.
  O, had we done it! sea and sky
  Scared us as oft, in act to fly:
  But chiefly when completed stood
  This horse, compact of maple wood,
  Fierce thunders, pealing in our ears,
  Proclaimed the turmoil of the spheres.
  Perplexed, Eurypylus we send
  To question what the fates portend,
  And he from Phoebus'* awful shrine
  Brings back the words of doom divine:
  'With blood ye pacified the gales,
      E'en with a virgin slain,*
  When first ye Danaans spread your sails,
      The shores of Troy to gain:
  With blood ye your return must buy:
  A Greek must at the altar die.'
  That sentence reached the public ear,
  And bred the dull amaze of fear:
  Through every heart a shudder ran,
  'Apollo's victim--who the man?'
  Ulysses, turbulent and loud,
  Drags Calchas forth before the crowd.
  And questions what the immortals mean,
  Which way these dubious beckonings lean:
  E'en then were some discerned my foe,
  And silent watch the coming blow.
  Ten days the seer, with bated breath,
  Restrained the utterance big with death:
  O'erborne at last, the word agreed
  He speaks, and destines me to bleed.
  All gave a sigh, as men set free,
  And hailed the doom, content to see
  The bolt that threatened each alike
  One solitary victim strike.
  The death-day came: the priests prepare
  Salt cakes, and fillets for my hair;
  I fled, I own it, from the knife,
  I broke my bands and ran for life,
  And in a marish lay that night,
  While they should sail, if sail they might.
  No longer have I hope, ah me!
  My ancient fatherland to see,
  Or look on those my eyes desire,
  My darling sons, my gray-haired sire:
  Perhaps my butchers may requite
  On their dear heads my traitorous flight,
  And make their wretched lives atone
  For this, the single crime I own.
  O, by the gods, who all things view,
  And know the false man from the true,
  By sacred Faith, if Faith remain
  With mortal men preserved from stain,
  Show grace to innocence forlorn,
  Show grace to woes unduly borne!"

   *[Footnote: Phoebus Apollo, god of the sun and of prophecy.]
   *[Footnote: When the Greeks set out for Troy, their ships were
     becalmed at Aulis, in Boeotia. Calchas consulted the signs and
     declared that the delay was caused by the huntress-goddess Diana,
     who was angry at Agamemnon for killing one of her sacred stags.
     Only by the death of Iphigenia, daughter of Agamemnon, could the
     wrathful goddess be placated. The maiden was sent for, but on her
     arrival at Aulis she was slain by the priest at Diana's altar.
     According to another version of the story, Iphigenia was not put
     to death, but was conveyed by Diana to Tauris, where she served as
     priestess in Diana's temple.]

    Moved by his tears, we let him live,
  And pity crowns the boon we give:
  King Priam bids unloose his cords,
  And soothes the wretch with kindly words.
  "Whoe'er you are, henceforth resign
  All thought of Greece: be Troy's and mine:
  Now tell me truth, for what intent
  This fabric of the horse was meant;
  An offering to your heavenly liege?
  An engine for assault or siege?"
  Then, schooled in all Pelasgian* shifts,
  His unbound hands to heaven he lifts:
  "Ye slumberless, inviolate fires,
  And the dread awe your name inspires!
  Ye murderous altars, which I fled!
  Ye fillets that adorned my head!
  Bear witness, and behold me free
  To break my Grecian fealty;
  To hate the Greeks, and bring to light
  The counsels they would hide in night,
  Unchecked by all that once could bind,
  All claims of country or of kind.
  Thou, Troy, remember ne'er to swerve,
  Preserved thyself, thy faith preserve,
  If true the story I relate,
  If these, my prompt returns, be great.

   *[Footnote: Pelasgian means Grecian. The name is derived from
     that of Pelasgus, an early Greek hero. By their neighbors the
     Greeks were regarded as a deceitful, double-dealing nation.]

    "The warlike hopes of Greece were stayed,
  E'en from the first, on Pallas' aid:
  But since Tydides,* impious man,
  And foul Ulysses, born to plan,
  Dragged with red hands, the sentry slain,
  Her fateful image* from your fane,
  Her chaste locks touched, and stained with gore
  The virgin coronal she wore,
  Thenceforth the tide of fortune changed,
  And Greece grew weak, her queen* estranged
  Nor dubious were the sig'ns of ill
  That showed the goddess' altered will.
  The image scarce in camp was set,
  Out burst big drops of saltest sweat
  O'er all her limbs: her eyes upraised
  With minatory lightnings blazed;
  And thrice untouched from earth she sprang
  With quivering spear and buckler's clang.
  'Back o'er the ocean!' Calchas cries:
  'We shall not make Troy's town our prize,
  Unless at Argos' sacred seat
  Our former omens we repeat,
  And bring once more the grace we brought
  When first these shores our navy sought.'
  So now for Greece they cross the wave,
  Fresh blessings on their arms to crave,
  Thence to return, so Calchas rules,
  Unlocked for, ere your wonder cools.
  Premonished first, this frame they planned
  In your Palladium's stead to stand,
  An image for an image given
  To pacify offended Heaven.
  But Calchas bade them rear it high
  With timbers mounting to the sky,
  That none might drag within the gate
  This new Palladium of your state.
  For, said he, if your hands profaned
  The gift for Pallas' self ordained,
  Dire havoc--grant, ye powers, that first
  That fate be his!--on Troy should burst:
  But if, in glad procession haled
  By those your hands, your walls it scaled,
  Then Asia should our homes invade,
  And unborn captives mourn the raid."

   *[Footnote: Tydides was Diomedes, son of Tydeus. The termination
     -ides means son of; thus Pelides is Achilles, son of Peleus.]
   *[Footnote: There was in a temple of Troy an image of Minerva, or
     Pallas, called the palladium, which was supposed to have fallen
     from the sky. The Greeks learned of a prophecy which declared that
     Troy could never be taken while the palladium remained within its
     walls, and Ulysses and Diomedes were entrusted with the task of
     stealing it. In disguise they entered the city one night, procured
     the sacred image and bore it off to the Grecian camp.]
   *[Footnote: Minerva, supposedly angered at the desecration of her
     statue.]

    Such tale of pity, aptly feigned,
  Our credence for the perjurer gained,
  And tears, wrung out from fraudful eyes,
  Made us, e'en us, a villain's prize,
  'Gainst whom not valiant Diomede,
  Nor Peleus' Larissaean* seed,
  Nor ten years' fighting could prevail,
  Nor navies of a thousand sail.

  *[Footnote: Achilles. Larissa was a town in Thessaly, of which
    Peleus, the father of Achilles, was king.]

    But ghastlier portents lay behind,
  Our unprophetic souls to bind.
  Laocoon, named as Neptune's priest,
  Was offering up the victim beast,
  When lo! from Tenedos--I quail,
  E'en now, at telling of the tale--
  Two monstrous serpents stem the tide,
  And shoreward through the stillness glide.
  Amid the waves they rear their breasts,
  And toss on high their sanguine crests:
  The hind part coils along the deep,
  And undulates with sinuous sweep.
  The lashed spray echoes: now they reach
  The inland belted by the beach,
  And rolling bloodshot eyes of fire,
  Dart their forked tongues, and hiss for ire.
  We fly distraught: unswerving they
  Toward Laocoon hold their way;
  First round his two young sons they wreathe,
  And grind their limbs with savage teeth:
  Then, as with arms he comes to aid,
  The wretched father they invade
  And twine in giant folds: twice round
  His stalwart waist their spires are wound,
  Twice round his neck, while over all
  Their heads and crests tower high and tall.
  He strains his strength their knots to tear,*
  While gore and slime his fillets smear,
  And to the unregardful skies
  Sends up his agonizing cries:
  A wounded bull such moaning makes,
  When from his neck the axe he shakes,
  Ill-aimed, and from the altar breaks.
  The twin destroyers take their flight
  To Pallas' temple on the height;
  There by the goddess' feet concealed
  They lie, and nestle 'neath her shield.
  At once through Ilium's hapless sons
  A shock of feverous horror runs:
  All in Laocoon's death-pangs read
  The just requital of his deed,
  Who dared to harm with impious stroke
  Those ribs of consecrated oak.
  "The image to its fane!" they cry:
  "So soothe the offended deity."
  Each in the labour claims his share:
  The walls are breached, the town laid bare:
  Wheels 'neath its feet are fixed to glide,
  And round its neck stout ropes are tied:
  So climbs our wall that shape of doom,
  With battle quickening in its womb,
  While youths and maidens sing glad songs,
  And joy to touch the harness-thongs.
  It comes, and, glancing terror down,
  Sweeps through the bosom of the town.
  O Ilium, city of my love!
  O warlike home of powers above!
  Four times 'twas on the threshold stayed:
  Four times the armour clashed and brayed.
  Yet on we press with passion blind,
  All forethought blotted from our mind,
  Till the dread monster we install
  Within the temple's tower-built wall.
  E'en then Cassandra's* prescient voice
  Forewarned us of our fatal choice--
  That prescient voice, which Heaven decreed
  No son of Troy should hear and heed.
  We, careless souls, the city through,
  With festal boughs the fanes bestrew,
  And in such revelry employ
  The last, last day should shine on Troy.

   *[Footnote: The death of Laocoon and his sons has always been a
     favorite subject in art and in poetry. (See illustration.)]
   *[Footnote: Cassandra was a daughter of Priam, king of Troy. She had
     been loved by Apollo, who bestowed on her the gift of prophecy; but
     she had angered him by failing to return his love, and he, unable
     to take back the gift, decreed that her prophecies should never be
     believed. All through the siege she had uttered her predictions and
     always they proved true; but no one ever paid heed to her warnings.]

    Meantime Heaven shifts from light to gloom,
  And night ascends from Ocean's womb,
  Involving in her shadow broad
  Earth, sky, and Myrmidonian* fraud:
  And through the city, stretched at will,
  Sleep the tired Trojans, and are still.

   *[Footnote: Here Myrmidonian means simply Grecian.]

    And now from Tenedos set free
  The Greeks are sailing on the sea,
  Bound for the shore where erst they lay,
  Beneath the still moon's friendly ray:
  When in a moment leaps to sight
  On the king's ship the signal light,
  And Sinon, screened by partial fate,
  Unlocks the pine-wood prison's gate.
  The horse its charge to air restores,
  And forth the armed invasion pours.
  Thessander,* Sthenelus, the first,
  Slide down the rope: Ulysses curst,
  Thoas and Acamas are there,
  And great Pelides' youthful heir,
  Machaon, Menelaus, last
  Epeus, who the plot forecast.
  They seize the city, buried deep
  In floods of revelry and sleep,
  Cut down the warders of the gates,
  And introduce their banded mates.*

   *[Footnote: These are all Grecian heroes.]
   *[Footnote: After the Greeks entered the gates the chief Trojan
     citizens were put to death, and the city was set on fire, Aeneas,
     with his little son and his aged father, escaped and took ship
     for Italy, accompanied by a band of followers.]

ULYSSES

Adapted From THE ODYSSEY

NOTE.--The Odyssey is one of the most famous of the old Greek poems, one that is still read
and enjoyed by students of the Greek language, and one that in its translations has given pleasure
to many English and American readers. Its influence on the works of our best writers has been
remarkable, and everybody wishes to know something about it.

It is in twenty-four books or parts, and tells of the wanderings and adventures of the Greek
hero, Ulysses, king of Ithaca, after the Trojan War. His wanderings lasted for ten years, but
most of the Odyssey is taken up with the events that happened in the last few weeks of this
time, during which period, at intervals, Ulysses himself tells the story of his wanderings,
winning everywhere the sympathy and admiration of those to whom he tells it.

It is customary to speak of the Odyssey as one of Homer's poems, but the probability is that
it was written at different times by different people, and at a date later than that at which
the Iliad was written. One of the standard translations of the Odyssey is that of Alexander
Pope, which is followed in this story. The tale has of necessity been very much abridged; the
details of the journeyings of Ulysses are omitted entirely, and the emphasis is placed on his
return home.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Ulysses departed to join in the Trojan War, he left his wife Penelope and his young son
Telemachus at home. He was one of the foremost of the Greek chieftains in the Trojan War, and
his deeds are a prominent part of the story in the Iliad.

After Ulysses had been many years absent, he was thought by most of his friends to be dead,
and many disorders grew up in his kingdom. Most disturbing of all was the fact that many wicked
and treacherous men came about Penelope as suitors for her hand, claiming that there was no
reason why she should not marry, as her husband had not been heard of since the Trojan War,
and had undoubtedly long since died. Both Penelope and Telemachus still clung to the thought
that Ulysses might be living, and the mother would by no means consent to taking another husband.

At this time the gods in council decided that Ulysses should be brought back home, and accordingly
Telemachus was inspired to travel in search of his father. Hoping that his journey might be
successful, Telemachus, guided by Minerva in the shape of the wise old Mentor, set out on his
long and trying journey. In time he learned that his father was still living, and had been
held for many years in the Island of Calypso. During the absence of Telemachus, the suitors
of Penelope planned to destroy him on his voyage home, but failed to accomplish their purpose.

After much persuasion by the gods, Calypso was induced to release Ulysses, and he, building
a boat with his own hands, set out on his homeward journey, but in a terrible tempest was shipwrecked
and barely escaped with his life, being rescued by a princess to whom he tells the story of
his journeyings.

He told how at one time he was in a ship driven by a tempest far from shore, and finally landed
upon the flowery coast of the land of Lotus, where he found a hospitable race who lived a lazy,
happy life, eating and drinking the things which nature provided them. So divinely sweet were
the lotus leaves that whosoever ate them were willing to quit his house, his country and his
friends, and wish for no other home than the enchanting land where the lotus plant flourished.

Denying themselves the pleasure of tasting the lotus leaves, Ulysses and his men sailed from
the coast to the land of Cyclops, where they were appalled by the sight of a shepherd, enormous
in size, unlike any human being, for he had but one eye, and that a huge one in the center
of his forehead. Ulysses with a few of his men landed upon the shore and visited the giant's
cavern home. While they were inspecting this strange place, the monster returned, bearing on
his back half a forest which he cast down at the door, where it thundered as it fell. After
building a huge fire, the giant entered the cavern, and in a voice of thunder asked Ulysses
who he was, and why he came to this shore. Ulysses explained, and for an answer the huge Cyclops
seized two of the followers of Ulysses, dashed them against the stony floor, and like a mountain
beast devoured them utterly, draining the blood from their bodies and sucking the marrow from
their bones.

After satisfying his hunger, the monster slept upon the ground, and all night long Ulysses
and his followers lay in deadly terror. The next day Ulysses gave the giant wine, and when
he was sleeping in a drunken stupor, the Greek hero took a green stick, and heating it until
it burnt and sparkled a fiery red, thrust its flaming point into the only eye the Cyclops had.

Raging with pain, the monster stumbled about the cave trying without success to find Ulysses
and his followers, though he did discover the door, and stationed himself there to prevent
their escape. In the cave were the great sheep that made the herd of the Cyclops, and throwing
themselves beneath the animals and clinging to their wool, Ulysses and his followers escaped
through the door, while the blind giant was touching his sheep one by one to see that nothing
but sheep passed out. Soon the hero and his men were safe on board the ship, though they narrowly
escaped destruction from a big boulder that the giant threw into the sea when he discovered
that his victims had made their escape.

Aeolus, ruler of the winds, anxious to aid Ulysses, gave him prosperous winds and tied the
treacherous winds up in a bag, but some of the curious mariners untied the bag, and the conflicting
winds escaping, destroyed several of the ships and threw Ulysses and the survivors upon the
island of Circe.

This famed enchantress, following her usual custom, turned the followers of Ulysses into swine,
but he, aided by Mercury, released them from their enchantment.

After a year's stay on this island, he was urged by Circe to make a descent into the Infernal
Regions, where he saw the tortures inflicted upon the wicked who had died before him. On his
return he was sent upon another voyage, where he met the Sirens, who lured some of his men
to destruction by their charming songs; but Ulysses himself escaped by having himself chained
to the mast. He sailed between Scylla and Charybdis safely, though he lost some of his men
in the terrible passage.

After Ulysses told in full his story, the kindly princess put him on board a magic ship and
sent him to Ithaca, where he was placed on shore with all his treasures, though he did not
at first know where he was.

However, he finally learned that he was home again, and visited the house of a favorite servant,
who gave him a full account of what had happened during his absence.

In the meantime Telemachus returned home, having learned that his father was still living;
and, directed by the gods, he went to the house of the same old servant with whom Ulysses had
taken refuge. That night the father and son recognized each other, and after a joyful reunion
they lay down to rest, having decided that in the morning Telemachus should repair to the palace
and tell Penelope that her husband was still alive, but leave her in ignorance of the fact
that he was near at hand.

In the rosy light of the morning the young prince hastened across the dewy lawn on his way
to his mother. When he reached the palace he propped his spear against the wall, leaped like
a lion over the threshold, hastened with running steps across the hall, and threw himself into
the arms of his loving mother. The passionate joy of their meeting was shadowed only by the
story that Telemachus had to tell, yet the story was lightened somewhat by the knowledge that
Ulysses still lived, though under enchantment, and might in time be able to return to his kingdom.

Penelope, knowing that her husband was still living, became more than ever incensed at the
outrageous conduct of the suitors, who had quartered themselves in her palace and were living
in luxury and vice. However, even with Telemachus at her side, it was impossible to drive out
the powerful men, so that she felt compelled still to endure their unwelcome presence.

According to the plans made by Ulysses and his son, the former about this time started for
the palace, clothed like a beggar, with a scrip flung over his shoulders around his patched
and ragged gown. Leaning upon a rude staff which his old servant had given him, Ulysses and
his servant passed along the road and descended into the town.

On the way they met a most wicked and treacherous former servant of Ulysses, who, now risen
to power, insulted the beggared chief by word and blow. It was with difficulty that Ulysses
restrained himself, for all his mighty rage was roused, and he swung his staff as though to
strike his insulter dead. However, remembering what was at stake, he conquered himself and
endured the insults.

As they drew near the gates of the city, they saw lying in the filth of the gutter an old,
decrepit dog, who had been the pet and joy of Ulysses before he left for war. Argus was now
grown old and feeble, and had been kicked from the palace by the cruel servants and left to
starve in the street. No sooner, however, had the chieftain approached than Argus knew his
master, and dragged himself, panting, to kiss the feet of the returned hero.

Ulysses, recognizing the dog, exclaimed, "See this noble beast lying abandoned in the gutter!
Once he was vigorous, bold and young; swift as a stag, and strong as a lion. Now he lies dying
from hunger. Surely his age deserves some care. Was he merely a worthless beauty, and is he
despised for that reason?"

"No," replied the servant, "he once belonged to Ulysses, but since the chieftain left his home,
nothing restrains the servants; and where riot reigns there can be no humanity.

"Whenever man makes himself a slave, half his worth is taken away."

While they were speaking, Argus raised his head, took one last look at his master, and closed
his eyes forever.

A moment later, Ulysses, a despicable figure, old and poor, in ragged clothing, trembling and
leaning on his staff, rested against the pillar of his own gate. Telemachus was the first to
see his father, and ordered that food should be given the poor beggar, and that he should be
invited to enter the hall and share the comforts of the palace. The experiences of the poor
old mendicant in the palace were more trying than any that he had had, for he met with nothing
but insults and abuse from the assembled suitors, in spite of the fact that Telemachus more
than once urged them to be generous, and himself set the example repeatedly.

Once only did Ulysses give way to his rage, and that was when another beggar insulted him and
challenged him to fight. Then Ulysses spread his broad shoulders, braced his limbs, expanded
his ample chest, and struck but once with his powerful right arm. Although he expended but
half his strength, the blow crushed the jaw-bone of the beggar, and felled him, stunned and
quivering, to the ground, while from his mouth and nostrils poured a stream of purple blood.

This happened in the street before the palace, and Ulysses, taking no notice of his fallen
foe, flung his tattered scrip across his shoulder, knotted the thong around his waist, and
returned to the palace, where the nobles joined in sarcastic compliments on his strength.

While Ulysses hung about the palace in beggar's garb, only one person recognized him, and that
was his old nurse Euryclea, who saw upon his knee a scar, that came from a wound which he had
received when a youth in hunting a wild boar. Then the old nurse had tended the wound, and
now she knew at once her fallen master. With difficulty Ulysses restrained her joy, and urged
her to keep his secret till the time came to disclose it.

While these things were happening, the suitors grew more and more insistent, and at a great
banquet in the palace they became so riotous that both Penelope and Telemachus knew that something
must be done.

Ulysses was subjected to continual insult, and the suitors, quarreling among themselves, insisted
that Penelope should give them some definite answer.

Finally the queen and her son perfected a plan and announced to the suitors that at a certain
time after the feast the queen would decide which she would accept. Penelope then went to the
inmost room of the palace and unlocked the door where the royal treasures lay, and taking from
among them the great bow which Ulysses had carried, and the quiver that contained his arrows,
she brought them down to the hall. This bow was a gift to Ulysses in his youth, and the warrior
had used it in many a fierce combat, but so powerful was it that none but himself could bend it.

Taking the bow before the assembled suitors, the majestic queen spoke as follows: "You make
vain pretense that you love me; you speak of me as a prize, and you say you seek me as a wife.
Now hear the conditions under which I will decide, and commence the trial. Whichever one of
you shall first bend the bow of Ulysses, and send a fleet arrow through the eyes of twelve
axes truly arranged, him will I follow, leaving this home which has been my delight and which
now has come to be but a torture to me."

She spoke carefully, and at the same time showed the rings and the bow. But as she touched
the powerful weapon, thoughts of her lost king filled her eyes with tears.

The suitors did not like the plan Penelope proposed, but saw no other way to gratify their
hopes. Although they objected, Telemachus insisted that Ulysses should be present at the trial,
and that he himself should be the first to make the attempt, for he said, "If I win, then will
my mother go with me."

Three times Telemachus twanged the bow, and three times his arrows sped along the hall, each
time missing by a narrower margin the difficult mark. As he was about to make the fourth attempt,
Ulysses signaled him to stop, feeling sure that on this trial the young man would succeed.

Disappointed and grieving, Telemachus obeyed, saying, "I have failed, but it is because of
my youth and not my weakness. So let the suitors try."

The first to make the attempt was Leiodes, a blameless priest, the best of all the suitors,
the only one in the throng who was a decent man, and who detested the conduct of the wretches
who hung about the queen. However strong his heart, his feeble fingers were not able to bend
the bow, and in despair he passed it on to the next. One after another the suitors tried and
failed, till only two remained; but they were the mightiest and the best.

At this point Ulysses, still in disguise, summoned two of his old servants, the masters of
his herds and flocks, and with them passed out of the banquet hall. Once by themselves, the
king made himself known, and in a moment both the men were at his feet, embracing his knees
and shedding tears of joy and gratitude.

Without delay, Ulysses spoke, "We have no time now to indulge in unseemly joy. Our foes are
too numerous and too fierce, and almost before we know it some one may betray us. Let us return
to the banquet separately; I first, and you following me a few moments later. Tell no one who
I am, but when the remaining suitors refuse to allow me to make the attempt with the bow, you,
Eumaeus, bring the instrument at once. In the meantime lock every gate of the palace, and set
some woman to lock each door within and leave it locked, no matter what sound of arms, or shouts,
or dying groans they hear. You, Philaetius, guard the main gate to the palace; guard it faithfully
with your life!"

When Ulysses was within, he spoke to the two powerful suitors as follows: "Take my advice,
noble lords, let the bow rest in peace this day, and tomorrow dispute for the prize. But as
you delay the contest, let me take the bow for one moment and prove to you that I whom you
despise may yet have in my feeble arm some of its ancient force."

Antinous, with lightning flashing from his eyes, yet with some terror at the bold carriage
of the beggar, cried, "Is it not enough, O miserable guest, that you should sit in our presence,
should be admitted among princes? Remember how the Centaur was treated; dragged from the hall,
his nose shortened and his ears slit. Such a fate may be yours."

But the queen interfered, saying, "It is impious to shame this stranger guest who comes at
the request of our son Telemachus. Who knows but that he may have strength to draw the bow?
Virtue is the path to praise; wrong and oppression can bring no renown. From his bearing, and
from his face and his stature, we know our guest can have descended from no vulgar race. Let
him try the bow, and if he wins he shall have a new sword, a spear, a rich cloak, fine embroidered
sandals, and a safe conveyance to his home."

"O royal mother," interrupted Telemachus, "grant me a son's just right! No one but a Grecian
prince has power to grant or deny the use of this bow. My father's arms have descended to me
alone. I beg you, O queen, return to your household tasks and leave us here together. The bow
and the arms of chivalry belong to man alone, and most of all these belong to me."

With admiration for her manly son, Penelope left the banquet hall and returned to her chamber,
where she sat revolving in her mind her son's words, while thoughts of his noble father brought
abundant tears to her eyes.

In the hall was riot, noise, and wild uproar as Euinaeus started to place the bow in the hand
of Ulysses.

"Go back to thy den, far away from the society of men, or we will throw you to your dogs!"
cried the crowd of disappointed suitors to the trembling servant.

"Slight their empty words, listen not to them," shouted Telemachus. "Are you so foolish as
to think you can please so many lords? If you give not the bow to the suppliant, my hands shall
drive you from the land, and if I were strong enough I would expel this whole shoal of lawless
men." Thus encouraged, Euinaeus handed the great bow to the king.

In the meantime the gates had been closed, and Philaetius secured them with strong cables,
after which he returned silent to the banquet room, and took his seat with his eyes upon his lord.

In his hands Ulysses turned the bow on all sides, and viewed it over and over, wondering if
time had weakened it, or other injury had come to it during his long absence. Snarling in anger,
the suitors spoke derisively, but the chieftain disdained reply, and continued with exact eye
to study every inch of his weapon. Then with ease he held the bow aloft in one hand, and with
the other tried its strength. It twanged short and sharp like the shrill cry of a swallow.
Every face paled, and a general horror ran through all present, for from the skies the lightning
burst, and Jove thundered loudly on high.

Then sitting as he was, Ulysses fitted an arrow to the string and drew back, leveling his eye
to every ring. Then with a mighty pull, he drew back the bow and gave the arrow wing. Straight
it left the string, and straight it passed through every ring and struck the gate behind, piercing
even the solid wood through and through.

"I have brought no shame to you," said Ulysses, turning to Telemachus, "nor has my hand proved
unfaithful to my aim. I have not lost my ancient vigor, and ill did I deserve the disdain of
these haughty peers. Let them go and find comfort among themselves, if they can, in music and
banqueting."

Even as Ulysses spoke, Telemachus girded on his shining sword, seized a javelin, and took his
stand at his father's side.

From that moment Ulysses ceased to be the beggar, and stripped of his rags he stood forth like
a god, full before the faces of the astonished suitors. He lifted his bow, and threw before
his feet a rattling shower of darts.

"We have another game to play this day, O coward princes!" he exclaimed. "Another mark we must
reach with our arrows. May Phoebus assist us, and our labor not be in vain!"

With the last word, the great chieftain loosed his arrow, and on its wing death rode to Antinous,
who at that moment had raised a golden bowl from which to drink. The fateful arrow passed through
his neck, and he fell upon the floor, and the wine from the tumbling goblet mingled with his blood.

The rest of the suitors were confounded at what they saw, and thronged the hall tumultously,
half in fear and half in anger.

"Do you aim at princes?" they cried. "This is the last of the unhappy games you shall play.
Death now awaits you, and vultures shall tear your body."

"Dogs, you have had your day," the Greek warrior spoke. "You thought there was no further fear
of Ulysses, and here you have squandered his wealth, made his house your home, and preyed upon
his servants. Worse than all, fired by frenzy, you have claimed even the wife of your chieftain.
You have known neither shame nor dread of the gods, and now is come the hour of vengeance.
Behold your King!"

The confused suitors stood around with pale cheeks and guilty heads before the dreadful words
of Ulysses.

Eurymachus alone was bold enough to speak. "If you are indeed Ulysses, great are your wrongs,
for your property has been, squandered, and riot and debauchery have filled your palace. But
at your feet now lies Antinous, whose wild ambition meant to slay your son and divide your
kingdom. Since he is dead, spare the rest of your people. Our gold and treasures shall defray
the expense, and the waste of years shall be refunded to you within the day. Until then, your
wrath is just."

With high disdain the king thus sternly spoke, "All the treasures that we had before you began
your pillage, joined with all your own, would not bring you mercy. I demand your blood and
your lives as prizes, and shall not cease till every one of you lies as pale as yonder wretch
upon the floor. You have but one choice--to fight or to fly."

All the great assembly trembled with guilty fears excepting Eurymachus alone, who calling upon
the others to follow him, drew his traitor sword, and rushed like a lion against his lord.

As they met, Ulysses turned aside the sword of his rushing foe, and forced his own through
the traitor's breast. Eurymachus dropped his sword from his weakening hand, and fell prone
upon the table, breaking it to the ground, and scattering the rich viands over the marble floor.

Almost at the same moment Amphinomus rushed forward to the attack, but Telemachus drove his
brazen spear through the breast of the fierce foe, who fell crashing to the stones.

"Arm! great father, arm!" cried Telemachus. "In haste I run for other arms and missiles, for
helmet and shield. Let the two servants stand faithfully by your side till I return."

"Haste!" replied Ulysses, "lest the host come upon us all at once, and we be driven from our post."

Telemachus flew to the room where the royal armor lay, and brought with him four brazen helmets,
eight shining spears, and four broad shields. Still among the coward princes the arrows of
Ulysses were flying, each carrying death to an enemy. Each placed a helmet upon his head, and
buckled on an armor, and thus clothed, the four stood shoulder to shoulder, awaiting the onset,
for by this time the surviving princes had remembered the strength that lay in their numbers,
and prepared to charge together upon the king and his attendants.

Now Minerva, the wise goddess and friend of Ulysses, appeared again before him as the aged
Mentor, and advised him how to fight. Then with change of form, she suddenly perched like a
swallow on a rafter high, where, unperceived, she could watch the struggle.

The conflict that followed was a sight worthy of the gods, for again and again the traitor
princes charged upon the doughty four, each time losing some of their number; for rarely did
it fail that the king and each of his faithful adherents took at least one life from the multitude.
Again and again clouds of darts threatened the life of the king and his son, but every time
Minerva blew them aside, and they fell harmless upon the floor, or buried themselves in the
woodwork behind the struggling heroes. At last but three of the attacking party remained alive.
First of these was Leiodes, the priest, who had first tried the bow of Ulysses.

"O gracious king, hear my supplication! I have never dishonored your house by word or deed,
and often I tried to check the injustice of the rest, but they never listened to my words.
Do not make yourself guilty of insult to my consecrated head."

"Priest you are," returned Ulysses, "but your vows have been made against me, and against me
have your daily prayers been said. Moreover, you aspired to the hand of my wife, and as you
joined in the common crime against me, you deserve the common fate."

Even as he spoke, he seized a sword from the hand of one of the dead princes, and swung it
flashing through the air, and that moment the priest's head rolled muttering on the floor.
There remained only Phemius, the reverend minstrel, whose poems had pleased the king in earlier
days, and Medon, the faithful friend and servant of Telemachus.

Neither had taken part in the struggle, and both were spared.

"Be bold," Ulysses said to them, "and rely on the friendship of my son. Live, and be to the
world an example, to show how much more safe are good than evil deeds. Go out to the open court
and leave us here in this room of blood and carnage."

Carefully the rooms were then searched by Ulysses and his followers, but nowhere could they
find a single living traitor. The dead lay on the floor in heaps like fish that had been cast
from the net upon the sands, and lie stiffening in the air.

Ulysses was not content till he had punished every evil servant and treacherous man and woman
about the palace or in the town in proportion to his misdeeds.

Then by the aid of Euryclea, his faithful old nurse, he robed himself in garments fit for the
shoulders of a king, and prepared to meet the queen.

During all this time Penelope had remained in her apartments terrified by the confusion and
noise of fighting in the palace, but praying always for her son. We can imagine her surprise
and delight when she learned how the battle had turned, and that the beggar, who had fought
so manfully, was indeed none other than her husband Ulysses.

Once more in possession of the throne, the Greek hero and his son rapidly destroyed every vestige
of the unhappy days that had passed, and soon the kingdom was again enjoying a prosperous and
happy reign.

JOHN BUNYAN

The father of John Bunyan was a poor tinker, a mender of pots and kettles, working sometimes
in his own house and sometimes in the homes of others. His son followed the same occupation
and did his work well. Even after he became a popular preacher and a great author he kept on
with his humble calling. It was a queer occupation for a man of genius, and scarcely any one
would expect the man who followed it to write a book that would be more widely read than anything
except the Bible. Evidently Bunyan was no common tinker.

John Bunyan was born at Elstow, a village near Bedford, in 1628, a year famous in English history
as that in which the king, Charles I, was forced to grant the Petition of Right presented by
the House of Commons. But the commotion in politics produced little effect on father and child,
and the latter grew up as most English boys of his time did grow, except that he had the advantage
of attending a grammar school in Bedford, a greater advantage than it seems unless we remember
that there were then no common schools in England.

The young tinker was a violent and passionate boy, profane, and a leader in all the mischief
of his kind. In his own account of his early life written long years afterward he accuses himself
of all manner of sins. Yet from what he says in other places we know that he was far from being
the worst of boys, and that many things that gave him the greatest concern were curiously exaggerated
by his uneasy conscience.

He must have been a strange little fellow, for while he was swearing, lying and leading raids
upon his neighbors' fruit orchards he was often terrified by the awfulness of his sin and "trembling
at the thoughts of the fearful torments of hell-fire."

To appreciate his feelings fully, we must remember the age in which he lived as the time when
everything in the Bible was taken as wholly literal, when people believed that sin was followed
by awful punishments in a fiery hell, and when miraculous events were considered common.

The young John must have known such occurrences as the following, related by Froude in his
Life of Bunyan:

"A man commonly called 'Old Tod' came one day into court, in the Summer Assizes at Bedford,
to demand justice upon himself as a felon. No one had accused him, but God's judgment was not
to be escaped, and he was forced to accuse himself. 'My lord,' said Old Tod to the judge, 'I
have been a thief from my childhood. I have been a thief ever since. There has not been a robbery
committed these many years, within so many miles of this town, but I have been privy to it.'
The judge, after a conference, agreed to indict him for certain felonies which he had acknowledged.
He pleaded guilty, implicating his wife along with him, and they were both hanged."

Filled with terror by the fearful things he heard and saw, it is no wonder that so sensitive
a child was haunted by such nightmares as are described by one of his biographers.

Once he dreamed that he was in a pleasant place, jovial and rioting, when an earthquake rent
the earth, out of which came bloody flames, and the figures of men tossed up in globes of fire,
and falling down again with horrible cries and shrieks and execrations, while devils mingled
among them, and laughed aloud at their torments. As he stood trembling, the earth sank under
him, and a circle of flames embraced him.. But when he fancied he was at the point to perish,
one in shining white raiment descended and plucked him out of that dreadful place, while the
devils cried after him to take him to the punishment which his sins deserved. Yet he escaped
the danger, and leapt for joy when he awoke and found it was a dream.

At seventeen, Bunyan was a tall, active lad still wild and reckless, an inventor of tales,
who swore to their truth, a great leader in athletic sports, but free from drunkenness and
other coarse vices. The Civil War was nearing its end, and martial deeds drew Bunyan to enlist,
but his term of service was short and it is not known on which side he served.

Soon after this he married an excellent girl, an orphan, who had been brought up religiously
and who made an excellent wife for the successful tinker. He was now a regular attendant upon
the Established Church, though, as he says, still retaining his wicked life.

The story of Bunyan's conversion is one that is difficult for us to understand. To him it was
a series of terrifying experiences, a succession of agonizing struggles, which grew only the
more terrible after he was convinced of his own sinful ways. He tells the story of his fearful
spiritual contest in the plainest, most matter-of-fact way, but scarcely mentions his home
life, his daily work, or the growth of his family.

To him, the Devil was a very real person, who came as a tempter and would not be denied, long
after Bunyan had completely reformed his ways and was living a life of strict honesty, purity
and self-denial. No sooner had his manner of living become perfect, as we should consider it,
than mental and spiritual temptations fell upon him. He believed that he had denied and sold
his Savior; that he had committed the one sin for which no atonement was possible, and that
he stood on the brink of a very real hell in whose sulphurous flames his body would burn forever.
We cannot help pitying the poor country workman whose tender conscience and loyal soul tortured
him with pains, worse a thousand times than those of physical death. No doubt his mind wavered
in the balance, for such agonies lead to insanity, if they are not the evidence of it.

At last, however, his self-tormenting ceased, and his weary soul found rest in a comforting
belief in Christ's forgiveness. As a result of his worry his health had given way, and he felt
that his end was at hand. But after peace came to him and he joined the Baptist Church his
strength came back, and for several years he kept at his business, making good progress and
finding himself at twenty-five years of age in a better position in life than that to which
he had been born.

There came to him a further call, and ignorant as he was of history, literature and philosophy,
he entered the ministry of his church. He knew his Bible thoroughly, he had experienced all
the terrors of the lost and all the joys of the redeemed, and he possessed that living enthusiasm
that carries conviction to others. So, when he spoke to the people among whom he had passed
his life, he caught the imagination of every one and bore them all along on the flood of his
eloquence. No such preacher was there in England; and everywhere, in woods, in barns, on the
village greens and in the chapels of the towns he preached his religion.

In the height of his fame, the Commonwealth ended, the Puritans lost their control of political
affairs, and Charles II was restored to the throne of England. Soon the separate meetings of
the Nonconformists were prohibited, and Bunyan was warned that he must cease his preaching.
No one could be more firm, however, in following the dictates of his conscience than this reformed
tinker*, and so, although he knew arrest and imprisonment faced him, he arranged to meet his
people and deliver to them a farewell address in November, 1660. At that meeting the constables
found him and took him away without any resistance on his part. The government was anxious
to deal liberally with Bunyan, for his fine character and good influence were both recognized,
but the sturdy exhorter declined to stop his preaching and would not give the least assurance
that he would not continue to spread his faith. As a consequence he was committed to the Bedford
jail, where he was not kept, however, in close confinement for any great part of the time.
His family were allowed to visit him, and his friends often came in numbers to listen to his
addresses.

There was no time when he would not have been liberated if he had merely promised to give up
his preaching. At the end of six years he was liberated, but as he began preaching at once,
he was rearrested and kept for six years longer, when a general change of governmental policy
sent him out into the world at forty-four years of age, free to preach when and where he wished.

Bunyan's imprisonment was of great value to him, in one respect at least, for it gave him time
to read, reflect and write. That he availed himself of the privilege, his great works testify.
After his release he continued his labors among his congregation, in writing, and in visiting
other churches. His little blind child, who visited him so often in the jail, died; but the
rest of his family lived and did well, and Bunyan must be considered a very happy man during
the sixteen years he stayed in his neat little home in Bedford.

In August, 1688, he received word that a bad quarrel had taken place between a father and son,
acquaintances of Bunyan, who lived at Reading. The old peacemaker went at once to the family
and after much persuasion succeeded in reconciling the two and persuading the father not to
disinherit the son. But this was the last charitable act of the great preacher, for in returning
he was drenched to the skin in a heavy shower of wind and rain, and after a brief illness died
at the home of one of his friends in London.

THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS

INTRODUCTION

The Pilgrim's Progress was written while Bunyan was in the Bedford jail, and as the writer
says, was written for his own amusement. Christian is Bunyan himself, and the trials and experiences
of the former are but the reflections of the temptations and sufferings of the great preacher
set forth in wonderfully dramatic and striking form.

At some time nearly every person reads The Pilgrim's Progress, and to those who do, Christian
becomes a very real person. It is a Puritan book, pure and simple, and as such, contains some
things that people of other denominations may object to, but there is so much of truth, simplicity
and real human nature in it, so much that touches the spiritual experiences of all human beings,
that most people, regardless of creed, are helped by it.

The Pilgrim's Progress is a very plain allegory. It describes persons and things as real and
material, but always gives to everything a spiritual significance. There is no room for doubt
at any time, for the names are all so aptly chosen that the meaning may be seen by any reader.
Yet the allegory is so significantly true that while a child may read and enjoy it as a story
and be helped by its patent truthfulness and poetry, the maturer mind may find latent truths
that compensate for a more careful reading.

"As I walked through the wilderness of this world," the book begins, "I lighted on a certain
place where there was a den [Footnote: The Bedford jail.] and I laid me down there to sleep,
and as I slept, I dreamed a dream. I dreamed, and behold, I saw a man, a man clothed in rags,
standing with his face from his own home, with a book in his hand, and a great burden upon
his back. I looked and saw him open the book and read therein; and, as he read, he wept and
trembled; and not being able longer to contain, he broke out with a lamentable cry, saying,
'What shall I do?'" This man is Christian, the hero of the story.

I saw also that he looked this way and that way, as if he would run; yet he stood still, because,
as I perceived, he could not tell which way to go.

The man said, "No."

"Then," said the other, "Do you see yonder shining light?"

He said, "I think I do."

So I saw in my dream that the man began to run. The name of one was Obstinate, and the other
Pliable.

Obstinate argues with Christian, but gives him up in despair and
returns to his home, but Pliable, thinking after all there may be some
good reason in Christian's conduct, decides to accompany him to the
wicket gate, and they converse on the way.
 Then said Pliable, "Ah! neighbor Christian, where are you now?"

"Truly," said Christian, "I do not know."

Help.

       *       *       *       *       *

Christian proceeds on his way, meeting many persons and conversing with them, often discouraged,
but always persistent in his idea of gaining Mount Zion and the holy city. The perils that
he meets do not overwhelm him, and even when he is apparently doomed to certain destruction,
some happy turn of events sets him again on his way rejoicing. Friends also appear to help
him whenever he most needs them. Then he asked the name of the country. "But first," said they,
"let us go again into the armory." So they did; and when they came there, they harnessed him
from head to foot with what was of proof, lest, perhaps, he should meet with assaults in the
way. "Oh, I know him; he is my townsman, my near neighbor; he comes from the place where I
was born. How far do you think he may be before?"

Por. "He has got by this time below the hill."

Chr.

Chr. And with that Apollyon spread forth his dragon's wings, and sped him away, that Christian
for a season saw him no more.

  "A more unequal match can hardly be,
  Christian must fight an Angel; but you see,
  The valiant man by handling Sword and Shield,
  Doth make him, tho' a Dragon, quit the field."

Later Christian meets Faithful, a true pilgrim, but one of a different temperament, so that
his trials and other experiences have been different, but the two proceed on their journey
together happy in good companionship. They pass through Vanity Fair, and Faithful is stoned
to death.

After Christian's escape from Vanity Fair he is joined by Hopeful, and the two travel on as
he and Faithful had done. Their trials continue but Christian finds even more help in the cheerful
nature of Hopeful than in the gentle disposition of Faithful, and he looks forward without
great dread to other trials which he may have to endure.

Wherefore, as still they went on, they wished for a better way.

Chr. "That is not like. Look, doth it not go along by the wayside?"

"Look," said Christian, "did not I tell you so? By this you may see we are right."

So they followed and he went before them. But, behold, the night came on, and it grew very
dark; so that they that were behind lost the sight of him that went before.

He, therefore, that went before (Vain-confidence by name), not seeing the way before him, fell
into a deep pit, which was on purpose there made, by the prince of those grounds, to catch
vainglorious fools withal, and was dashed in pieces with his fall. I would have spoken plainer,
but that you are older than I."

Neither could they, with all the skill they had, get again to the stile that night.

Now, Giant Despair had a wife, and her name was Diffidence. Shall we be ruled by the Giant?"

Hope.

Then they went on, and came to the King's highway, and so were safe, because they were out
of his jurisdiction.

Having escaped from Doubting Castle they continue their perilous way, ever drawing nearer to
the Celestial City, and ever growing more impatient for the end of their pilgrimage. Here they
had no want of corn and wine; for in this place they met with abundance of what they had sought
for in all their pilgrimage. He also showed them there the King's walks, and the arbors where
he delighted to be; and here they tarried and slept.

Hopeful, therefore, here had much ado to keep his brother's head above water; yea, sometimes
he would be quite gone down, and then, ere a while, he would rise up again half dead.

Thus they got over. Oh, by what tongue or pen can their glorious joy be expressed! And thus
they came up to the gate.

I also heard the men themselves, that they sang with a loud voice, saying, "Blessing, and honor,
and glory, and power, be unto Him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever
and ever." And after that they shut up the gates; which, when I had seen, I wished myself among
them.

AWAY [Footnote: From Afterichiles, by James Whitcomb Riley, copyright 1887.]

By JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY

  I cannot say, and I will not say,
  That he is dead.--He is just away!

  With a cheery smile and a wave of the hand,
  He has wandered into an unknown land,

  And left us dreaming how very fair
  It needs must be, since he lingers there.

  And you--oh you, who the wildest yearn
  For the old-time step and the glad return,--

  Think of him faring on, as dear
  In the love of There as the love of Here;

  And loyal still, as he gave the blows
  Of his warrior strength to his country's foes.--

  Mild and gentle, as he was brave,--
  When the sweetest love of his life he gave

  To simple things;--Where the violets grew
  Pure as the eyes they were likened to,

  The touches of his hand have strayed
  As reverently as his lips have prayed:

  When the little brown thrush that harshly chirred
  Was dear to him as the mocking-bird;

  And he pitied as much as a man in pain
  A writhing honey-bee wet with rain.--

  Think of him still as the same, I say;
  He is not dead--he is just away!

LITTLE GIFFIN OF TENNESSEE

  Out of the focal and foremost fire,
  Out of the hospital walls as dire,
  Smitten of grape-shot and gangrene--
  Eighteenth battle and he sixteen--
  Spectre such as you seldom see,
  Little Giffin of Tennessee.

  "Take him and welcome," the surgeon said,
  "But much your doctor can help the dead!"
  And so we took him and brought him where
  The balm was sweet on the summer air;
  And we laid him down on a lonesome bed,
  Utter Lazarus, heels to head.

  Weary war with bated breath!
  Skeleton Boy against skeleton Death!
  Months of torture, how many such!
  Weary weeks of the stick and crutch!
  And still the glint of the steel-blue eye
  Told of a spirit that wouldn't die,

  And didn't--nay more, in Death's despite
  The crippled skeleton learned to write.
  "Dear Mother," at first, of course, and then,
  "Dear Captain," asking about the men.
  Captain's answer, "Of eighty and five,
  Giffin and I are still alive."

  "Johnston's pressed at the front," they say--
  Little Giffin was up and away.
  A tear, the first, as he bade good-bye,
  Dimmed the glint of his steel-blue eye.
  "I'll write, if spared."--There was news of fight,
  But none of Giffin--he didn't write.

  I sometimes fancy that when I'm king,
  And my gallant courtiers form a ring,
  Each so careless of power and pelf,
  Each so thoughtful for all but self,
  I'd give the best on his bended knee--
  Yes, barter them all, for the loyalty
  Of Little Giffin of Tennessee.

LITTLE BREECHES

A PIKE COUNTY VIEW OF SPECIAL PROVIDENCE

