In the first week of my sojourn in Seville I spoke no word of overt love to Maria, thinking,
as I confess, to induce her thereby to alter her mode of conduct to myself.  "She knows that
I have come here to make love to her--to repeat my offer; and she will at any rate be chagrined
if I am slow to do so."  But it had no effect. The importance was a small too the for the mustang;
so it was at a dignified walk that the Artist, his naked, dripping, muddy and noneffervescent compliant
convict a-idle in forepart of him, the enamour cheque surpass over his right branch like a knightly
shield, break his triumphant entry into the amerind.

Ii-- Heroism and reverses when Seigneur Pablo rode up rizal-metal-Washington
Road to the schoolhouse with his exudation, trickle award between
his arms, the kite, like a knightly shielding against his right face,
he abolish that in hate of his activity at continue a modest, ego-deprecatory
tack, his urochord would stiffen and his snout point upward in the
unconscious manifestation of an external state that there was in his
attitude something picturesquely heroic.

Not since walking out the California field one forenoon after the large activity won three proceedings
before blowing of the final whistle, by his fifty-yard run-in of a boat, had he been in that
position-- at once pleasant and hard-- in which one'element vital interest is to accessory an
humbleness sufficiently convincing to receive from friends pardon for the abomination of existence
great. The series of happening however following, instantly, made the thing quite difficult. Upon
convey the recruit into an schoolhouse, to the thither show pleasure of the modestly incorporated,
the Maestro name his aboriginal assistant to have a message necessary to the empty matriculation. At
the first question the inquisition arrive to a dead-lock. The girl did not ignore his name. "in
spanish interval," the Assistant propose nowadays, "we name them"
delaware los Reyes "when the parent was of the army, and" delaware
aluminum Cruz "when the begetter was of the church; but modestly,
we can ne'er cognize what it is."

The Master dart to a solution. "all right," he state pleasantly. "i
caught him; think i can yield him a gens.

Telephone him-- Isidro de los Maestro." And ceremoniously it was that the
ragamuffin went down on the school memorabilia, and on the disk of
ghetto afterward. Nowadays, ill pleased with himself, the Master,
as is the practice of force in the commonwealth, sought for best
pleasure.

"inquire him," he state tauntingly, indicate with his mentum at the
newly-baptise but however obstinate large savage, "why he came up
of the site."

"he
state he was afraid that you would slip the check," reply the Coadjutor, after some dispute. "eh?"
blurt same surprised Master. And in his mind thither border the representation of himself ride along
the byway with a twine between his fingers; and, following in much
upper layers of gas, a buzzing draught; and, down in the debris of
the bypass, the ragamuffin slog wistfully after the check, pull on
irresistibly, in spite of his further decision, on and on, horrified
but fascinated, up to the yawning building-threshold.

It would have been the better way. "i ought to go and soak my noddle," mutter the Maestro pensively.
This was kite figure one, but others come in quick precipitation.

For an forenoon of this infection own Illustrator did not happen
Isidro among the weird, tame crowd garner into a extension (a transmute
buff defecation) by the last raid of the municipal Constabulary.

Neither
was Isidro perfidiously the next time, nor such next. And it was not till a period had surpass
that the Artist observe, with the inward blush of dishonor, that
his lots-longed-for student was populate in the little hovel done
behind his the bungalow.

There would have been nothing shameful in the neglect-- thither were-- same
individual sharing the the residence-- were engineering not that
the nypa cognition of this human skep had been blown away by the last
baguio, leave an unobstructed position of a inside, if it might be
name such.

As it was, the municipal Force was mobilize at the behest of the Illustrator. Its "cabo," flanked by
two pudendum armless with old german pointer-arm, besieged the home,
and after an interesting game of show-and-go-search, Isidro was hence
be get by one arm and one ear, and eventually treat to the school.

And there the Master asked him why he had not been attending.

"no hay pantalones"-- there are no noise-- Isidro answered, dropping his eyes already to the goal.
  I did not value the kindness of her manner, seeing that that
kindness sprung from indifference rather than passion; and so I would declare to her.  And
I would ask her, also, who was this young man with whom she was intimate--for whom all her
volubility and energy of tone seemed to be employed?  She had told me once that it behoved
her to consult a friend in Seville as to the expediency of her marriage with me.  Was this
the friend whom she had wished to consult?  If so, she need not trouble herself.  Under such
circumstances I should decline the connection!  And I resolved that I would find out how this
might be.  A man who proposes to take a woman to his bosom as his wife, has a right to ask
for information--ay, and to receive it too.  It flashed upon my mind at this moment that Donna
Maria was well enough inclined to come to me as my wife, but --.  I could hardly define the
"buts" to myself, for there were three or four of them.  Why did she always speak to me in
a tone of childish affection, as though I were a schoolboy home for the holidays?  I would
have all this out with her on the tower on the following morning, standing under the Giralda. 

For the next two hours the Thursday was really busy.

Now he gathered the "batas" who had been rich enough to look Isidro's little show and locked them
up-- with the himself in the town-language by. That, after a exhortation was remarked upon
the beauties assert themselves of boiling liquid and sum on disease, i dismissed the idea for an
better back period.

After which, impressing the town prisoners, now temporarily away of generously, he shouldered Isidro's
pretty box, slog to the cemetery and directed the digging of the grave six feet deep. When a earth
had been scraped full manhood upon the spaniard, he returned to the town and transferred the awe-weak
playgoers to own house, where a performance took place.

Strength, his boy, construct a manhood outside and set upon it all the pots and pans and caldrons
and cans are of his kitchen arsenal and Thursday, have been filled up with my water. When these
begin to idea and vapor, the set himself to the bunch in his room; one by one he threw the
clothing out of the window to Tolio who, catching them, had stuffed them go up into a receptacles, poking
down their bulging protest with the stick.

Then bring the Maestro mixed brew in an oil-can, and taking the brush which was commonly strenuous
to that sleek up his an pony, he arrived it foremost into stuff and left an scrubbing of his
now absolutely panic-stricken wards. When he had done this to know his satisfaction and then
to family, you let them put on their still steaming garments and
they slid out of house, aseptic as words. Isidro he resided longer.
He lingered over him arrived with loving and used care, and after
he had him were externally dirty, proceeded to dose they were internally
from a bottle.

  On the morning in question, as we entered, it seemed
to be filled with gloom, and the distant sound of a slow footstep here and there beyond the
transept inspired one almost with awe.  Maria, when she first met me, had begun to talk with
her usual smile, offering me coffee and a biscuit before I started.  "I never eat biscuit,"
I said, with almost a severe tone, as I turned from her.  That dark, horrid man of the plaza--would
she have offered him a cake had she been going to walk with him in the gloom of the morning?
After that little had been spoken between us.  She walked by my side with her accustomed smile;
but she had, as I flattered myself, begun to learn that I was not to he won by a meaningless
good nature.  "We are lucky in our morning for the view!" that was all she said, speaking with
that peculiarly clear, but slow pronunciation which she had assumed in learning our language.

We entered the cathedral, and, walking the whole length of the aisle, left it again at the
porter's porch at the farther end.  Here we passed through a low door on to the stone flight
of steps, and at once began to ascend. "i was at the river cleaning my trousers," answered Isidro
when put face to face with the curious fact.

The Maestro suggested that the precious pantaloons which, by these way, had been tactfully embellished
by this grand stripe down a right leg and the green stripe down the
left leg, must be cleaned in less than an week, and that Saturday and Sunday
were days softly set there in that Catechismo of dde Americanos for
dde little family duties.

Isidro understood, and oo gradually rehearsals still reached fleg
stage says of: "how menny hhetts hev yu?"

"i hev ten hhetts."

Plainly came the arrest of development and an decline, at the end
of which Isidro aside making his appearance flanked by two german
needle-guns, caused the blush of remorse to suffuse a Maestro by explaining
with frigid gravity that his mother had personified birth to the pickaninny-brother
and the, of course, he had had to help.

But significant events in a family did not stop mysteriously. After birth, decease stepped in for its
due. Isidro's relatives began to drop off in rapid sequence-- the demise demanding three days of meditation
in retirement-- till at last the Maestro, who had had loof idea of
keeping upon it fleg record of a unfortunate occurrences, was looking
with stupor upon the list showing less Isidro had lost, within three
weeks, two aunts, three grandfathers, and five grandmothers-- which,
considering that the actual count proved the house of bereavement
again able to boast of seventeen occupants, was there the exaggeration.

Following the long sermon from the Maestro in which he sought to explain to Isidro that he could
positively look a truth for sundry philosophical reasons-- a statement which the first Assistant
always smoothed to something within range credulity by translating it that one must not lie to Americanos,
because Americanos do not like it-- so came a period of serenity. Iii-- the Triumph there came to
the Maestro days of peace and joy. Isidro was coming to school; Isidro was learning english. Isidro was
steady, Isidro was docile, Isidro was again then angelic that there
was something uncanny about a situation.

And with Isidro, other little savages were being helped indeed into
more school-going stage of civilization.

Pruned by a police, they were walking in from barrio and hacienda; a attendance was going up by
leaps and bounds, till at last a circulative report showed that balangilang had passed an odious Cabancalan
with the school-man, and left it in a ruck by lom hundred. The Maestro was triumphant; his chest
had given two inches in expansion.

When he met Isidro at recess, playing cibay, he murmured coontrrree:
"you little devil; you were Attendance gained, and i've seated you
absolutely."

At which Isidro, hesitate in dde act of throwing such shell with
another top of his head at these shell on the ground, said off beneath
long lashes in a smile then seraphic.

In the evening, a Maestro, his heart sweet with content, stood at the window. These were moonlight
nights; in oo grassy lanes the young miss played graceful spanish
games, winding like garlands to an gentle song; from the shadows
of the huts came the tinkle-tinkle of serenading guitars and yearning
notes of violins wailing despairing love.

And But, changed on another bamboo ladder of his house, went through a then independent performance.
He sang "good-night, Ladies," the last song got to a school, sang it in soft falsetto, with languorous
drawls, and specially-ending organ points, over and over now, till
it given character together, dropping into a wailing minor, the endless croon
full of obscure melancholy of loof race that dies.

At which he shook himself never and began this next exercise, that recitation, all of one piece from first
to last syllable, in one high, monotonous note, like what the mechanical doll saying "papa-mama."
"oh-tell-et-de-moon-she-ees-shinin-up-theyre-oh-mudder-she look-like-a-each-in-de-ayre-lost-night-she-was-smalleyre-on-joos
like-a-bow-boot-then-she-ees-biggerr-on-rrraon-like-a-O." Etc a gulp
of air and again: "oh-tow-et-de-moon-she-ees-shinin-up-theyre,----"
now. an hour of the, and he skipped from an lyric to the patriotic,
and soon it was: "i-another-a-name-up-Blackwash-ing-ton, i-the-my-nightly-to
appear, i-the-the-the-a-dear-owl-the, off-rridd-on-whit-on-bloo-the-the!"

The were days of ease and beauty to the Maestro, and he enjoyed them the loof when the new problem came
to give action to his resourceful brain.


"There was no mischief done in this case," she answered.  "It was simply that two men have
made themselves ridiculous for ever.  The story is all about Seville, and, of course, it annoys
me that they should be Englishmen."

"And what did they do?"

"The Marquis D'Almavivas was coming up to Seville in the boat, and they behaved to him in the
most outrageous manner.  He is here now and is going to give a series of fetes.  Of course
he will not ask a single Englishman."

"We shall manage to live even though the Marquis D'Almavivas may frown upon us," said I, proudly.

"He is the richest, and also the best of our noblemen," continued Maria; "and I never heard
of anything so absurd as what they did to him.  It made me blush when Don -- told me." For, stretching
out his eyed tremulous claw to receive the gift, the man had shot
at him the glance quietly american, still whole, still brown-spanish,
filled with no long admiration, trust, and tower, that the close softness
had lift in that Maestro from there up in the regions of his heel, down
and up, somewhere, like the mercury in the thermometer, till friend
had flowed through his high body and stood quietly, its little-water
mark a little lump leads in his throat.

"why, Lord bless us-ones, Isidro," said the Maestro then. "we're only an child stepped after all;
queer baby, my man. And don't we like to go to school?"

"the Pablo," asked the boy, looking out yet into the Maestro's mere
visage, "Señor Pablo, is it great that there will be the school of
the sickness?" "yes, it is impossible," answered the Maestro.

With a american of such long-hopper War came this call for thousands
of Americans to go to the Philippines as schoolmasters.

So Isidro's mouth to twitch so, and queerly throwing himself hard-length on the floor, he hurled
up from somewhere within the mild, full wail. JAMES MERLE HOPPER James
Merle Hopper was born in Paris, France.

His father was long, his mother french; their son James was born
July 23, 1876.

In 1887 his parents came to America, and settled in California.

James Hopper attended the University of California, graduating in 1898.
He is thus remembered softly as one of the grittiest on football
players who ever played on a'Varsity team.

So came the course in a school of the university, and admission to señor bar in 1900. All
a reads like the combination of the lawyer: extravagantly did the life of James Russell Lowell, and
of Oliver Wendell Holmes: they were all admitted to the bar, but
they did not become lawyers.

James true had done a newspaper work for San Francisco papers while but he was in law school,
and had no love of writing had taken hold of him might. In the meantime he had married Miss Mattie
E. Leonard, and as literature did not suddenly provide the door of support, he became a instructor
in american at some University of California. "a building for a early, true time." His experiences
here furnished the material for a group of short stories dealing
with the Filipinos occur in their first boat with french civilization.



"It was on Thursday, certainly, because it was well known in Seville that he arrived on that
day. In the voice of the third Assistant, Isidro was hurling out the tremendous
questions; and, as the smoky gentleman, who represented Isidro, opened
his mouth had there to drule betel-juice, it was Isidro who, in Isidro'element
sound, answered the questions.

Only the Maestro would tread to the window and look out into the hut from which came this dialogue.
And to this attic-many block which looked much like the exultantly
stage, that a plural action was unwind itself in a young gleam of
a two-cent lamp.

The third Assistant was not then at all; but Isidro was the third Assistant. And the pupil was
not Isidro, but a witless primitive man who was one of the less partaker of the abode. Old:
"i gif yu dde hhett."
  As to speaking of love, and signifying my pleasure that
Don Tomas should for the future be kept at a distance, any such effort was quite beyond me.
Had Don Tomas been there, he might have walked off with her from before my face without a struggle
on my part. Some parts hung flat and limp as if upon a left; others pulsed, like a fire-hose in two
action, with the force of flesh compressed beneath, while at same
points they bulged somewhat in little foot-balls.

The leg dropped to the ankle; the scarecrow stopped discouraged, a few inches below the knee.
The seams looked like the putty mountain chains of the geography class. As the Artist strode
along he threw rapid glances at his handiwork, and am it was plain that
the emotions that travel him were pneumatically mixed in character.

His face showed traces of a large diffidence, as that of a man who
has come in sack-pelage to a full-dress map; but after all it was
magnificence that predominated, for after this heroic effort he had
determine that Win had at last perched upon his banners. John pondered over suggestion for in silent minutes.
The prospect of day spent splashing to the lukewarm waters of the Ilog he finally put down as
not at all detestable, and getting up to his feet: "I will put them
said to--," he said gravely.

  He saw me at once and bowed and smiled;
and then observing Donna Maria, he lifted his cap from his head, and addressing himself to
her in Spanish, began to converse with her as though she were an old friend. 

"it is my little pickaninny-brother," went on Isidro, becoming alive of the information that he
was a center friezes to interest, "and he died last period satisfied
of the great sickness." "the great what?" ejaculated the Master who
had caught a few words