(3) Psalm ciii. 14, "He knoweth our frame; He remembereth that we are dust."--Our SHEPHERD
knows our weakness. He never lays more upon us than we are able to bear.

(4) Psalm i. 6, "The LORD knoweth the way of the righteous."--There may be difficulties in
our path; we do not foresee them, but He knows them; and when He puts forth His sheep He does
not leave them to meet difficulties as best they can, but He goes before them.

(5) Job said (xxiii. 10) "He knoweth the way that I take."--Job did not understand the way
the LORD was leading him. He was bewildered by the LORD's dealings with him; but he had this
comfort, "He knoweth the way that I take." So when we cannot understand GOD'S dealings with
us we may rest on the same truth.

(6) Psalm xliv. 21, "He knoweth the secrets of the heart."--We are often brought into circumstances
of trial and misunderstanding. People imagine that this or that discipline is the fruit of
this or that sin. The LORD knoweth the secrets of the heart. If we are unjustly accused or
suspected, if it is asserted that we have forgotten the name of our GOD, GOD knows the secrets
of our hearts. Sometimes we have trials which we cannot put into prayer; the LORD knows the
secrets of our heart. There are things that affect us, and yet we cannot understand how it
is that we are so affected by them. "He knoweth the secrets of the heart."

(7) 2 Peter ii. GOD knew how to punish the old world and save Noah--how to punish Sodom and
save Lot.

(8) Then we have many needs. We are like children, we need to be helped continually, and our
SAVIOUR reminds us (Matt. vi. 8, 32) that our "heavenly FATHER knoweth what things" we "have
need of"; and that if we are only concerned to seek "first the Kingdom of GOD, and His righteousness,"
"all these things shall be added unto" us. So that we have no need to be anxious about to-morrow.
It is quite sufficient that we have a SHEPHERD, OVERSEER, FRIEND who undertakes to provide
for it all.

Nay, as he told us in Psalm lxxxiv. 11, He himself is a "sun" to give us light in all times
of darkness, and a "shield" to protect us in danger. The "grace" that we need for His service
now, and the "glory" that shall soon crown it, are all in Him, and all for us; for, "No good
thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly." Not, from them that walk perfectly,
or sinlessly--no on does that; not, from them that are blameless--though we all should be that;
but if we are honestly and uprightly seeking to serve Him, no good thing will he withhold.
What a rich promise this is!

IV. In conclusion: Are we all enjoying this precious truth? Are we all able to take this passage
to ourselves and say, "I was a sheep going astray, but I am returned"? Can we all feel it is
true for ourselves? If there be one who cannot do so, the SHEPHERD, the BISHOP, is really present,
though unseen; He is here ready to receive those who will return now. "Come unto Me," is His
word. If there is one burdened with sin, He is ready to pardon. If there is one burdened with
care, He is present to receive your care. The LORD JESUS is waiting: waiting to take every
burden away, to accept every deposit, to fulfil every trust we confide in Him. He will be faithful
to keep that which we commit to Him. We can entrust to Him the keeping of our hearts, the ordering
of our lives, the care of our children, the converts whom GOD has given us, the word to which
He has called us. We may trust Him to keep us, in employments in which we are brought into
contact with the ungodly; yes, whatever we commit to Him, He is able to keep.

If we have come to Him, with what blessedness may we go forward into this year. We have not
passed this way heretofore. We know not what burdens the LORD has for us to bear, or what blessings
in store. We need not be afraid, if He gives great blessing that He will let us become puffed
up; or that great difficulties will be too much for us while trusting in Him. That which was
never meant for our strength will be met by His strength. May we be a docile flock, willing
to be cared for by Him, and every blessing will then be ours!

Self-Denial versus Self-Assertion.

"If any man will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow
Me.--LUKE ix. 23.

We might naturally have thought that if there was one thing in the life of the LORD JESUS CHRIST
which belonged to Him alone, it was His cross-bearing. To guard against so natural a mistake,
the HOLY GHOST has taken care in gospel and in epistle to draw our special attention to the
oneness of the believer with CHRIST in cross-bearing; and also to prevent misunderstanding
as to the character of Christian cross-bearing, and the constancy of its obligation. The LORD
JESUS, in the words we are considering, teaches us that if any man, no matter who he may be,
will be His disciple, he must--not he may--deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow
his LORD.

Is there not a needs-be for this exhortation? Are not self-indulgence and self-assertion temptations
to which we are ever exposed, and to which we constantly give way, without even a thought of
the un-Christliness of such conduct? That we owe something to GOD all Christians admit; and
it may be hoped that the number of those is increasing who recognise His claim to some proportionate
part of their income. But our MASTER claims much more than a part of our property, of our time,
of our affections. If we are saved at all, we are not our own in any sense, we are bought with
a price: our bodies we must present to Him; our whole life must be for GOD.

Self-denial surely means something far greater than some slight insignificant lessening of
our self-indulgences! When Peter denied CHRIST, he utterly disowned Him and disallowed His
claims. In this way we are called to deny self, and to do it daily, if we would be CHRIST's
disciples indeed. "I don't like this," or, "I do like that," must not be allowed; the only
question must daily be, What would JESUS like? And His mind and will, once ascertained, must
unhesitatingly be carried out.

As believers, we claim to have been crucified together with CHRIST; and Paul understood this,
not merely imputatively but practically. That cross put the world to death as regards Paul,
and put Paul to death as regards the world. To the Apostle nothing could have been more practical.
He does not say, "I take up my cross daily," in the light, modern sense of the expression;
but puts it rather as dying daily; and therefore, as one "in deaths oft," he was never surprised,
or stumbled by any hardship or danger involved in his work.

We wish, however, to draw attention to another aspect of self-denial which is often overlooked,
and perhaps we shall do this most intelligibly by use of the antithetical expression, self-assertion.
What does the Word of GOD teach us about our rights, our claims, our dues? Does it not teach
us that condemnation, banishment, eternal misery, are our own deserts? As unbelievers, we were
condemned criminals; as believers, we are pardoned criminals; and whatever of good is found
in us is but imparted, and to GOD alone is due the praise. Can we, then, consistently with
such a position, be self-asserting and self-claimant?

It is clear that if we choose to remit a claim due to us by one who is free and our equal,
that may not invalidate or affect his claim on his neighbour--no matter whether that claim
be larger or smaller than the one we remitted. But what did our SAVIOUR intend to teach us
by the parable of Matthew xviii. 23-35? There the King and Master and Owner of a slave remits
His claim in clemency and pity (and does so, as our LORD elsewhere clearly shows, on express
condition of His servant's forgiving as he is forgiven--Matthew vi. 14, 15); can that slave,
under these circumstances, assert and claim his rights over his fellow?

And is not this principle of non-assertion, this aspect of self-denial, a far-reaching one?
Did our LORD claim His rights before Pilate's bar, and assert Himself; or did His self-denial
and cross-bearing go the length of waiting for His FATHER'S vindication of His character and
claims? And shall we, in the prosecution of our work as ambassadors of Him whose kingdom is
not of this world, be jealous of our own honour and rights, as men and as citizens of Western
countries, and seek to assert the one and claim the other,--when what our MASTER wants is witness
to, and reflection of, His own character and earthly life, and illustrations of the forbearing
grace of our GOD and FATHER?

May GOD work in us, and we work out in daily life, not self-assertion but self-denial--not
ease and honour-seeking and right-maintaining, but right-abandoning and cross-taking--and this
for the glory of His own holy Name, and for the better forwarding of His interests, whether
among His own people or among the unsaved! 11.

How pleasant to the heart of a true child to hear his father well spoken of, and to rejoice
that he is the child of such a father. We feel that we can never thank GOD sufficiently for
our privileged lot, who have been blessed with true and loving Christian parents. But if this
be the case with regard to the dim and at best imperfect earthly reflections, what of the glorious
Reality--the great FATHER--the source of all fatherhood, of all protection--of all that is
blessed here, and true, and noble, and good--and of all the glories to which we look forward
in the future? None of His works can fully reveal the great Designer, and Executor, and Upholder;
and the loftiest thoughts and imaginations of the finite mind can never rise up to and comprehend
the Infinite. The natural sun is inconceivably great, we cannot grasp its magnitude; it is
inconceivably glorious, we cannot bear to gaze for one moment on its untempered light. The
source to us of all heat, we have to shield ourselves from its tropical power, though millions
of miles from its surface: the sustainer of the essential conditions of physical life, and
the great ruler and centre of the solar system--how great and glorious is the natural sun!
And yet it may be the very smallest of all the countless suns that GOD has made! What of the
glorious MAKER of them all!

"The LORD GOD is a Sun." Ah! He deserves the name, He is the Reality of all that sun or suns
exhibit or suggest. My reader, is he the Sun to you? Do you count all that to be darkness which
does not come form and accord with His light: all that to be disorder which does not implicitly
accept and delight in His rule? "O LORD of Hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth to Thee!"
Self-will is unmingled folly, and can only end in injury and loss.

And the LORD GOD is a Shield. Dangers encompass us, unseen at every moment. Within us, in the
wonderful and delicate organisation of our bodies--around us, when in circumstances of the
greatest comfort and apparent safety--are dangers unseen, which at any moment might terminate
our earthly career. Dangers seen sometimes appal us, or appal those who love us: but they are
not more real than many we never dream of. Why do we live so safely, then? Because the LORD
GOD is a Shield.

Foes, too, are never far from us. The world, the flesh, and the devil are very real; and unaided
we have no power to keep or deliver ourselves from them. But the LORD GOD is a Shield. It is
a small matter then to go to China, a very small additional risk to run; for there, as here,
the LORD GOD is a Shield. Should war break out, in this we may be confident; for He has said
He will never fail nor forsake His own. Only when our work is done will He take us home; and
this He will do whether we serve Him here or there. To know and to do His will--this is our
safety; this is our rest.

Sweet are his promises--grace will He give, and glory. Grace all unmerited and free--that which
is really for our good, for CHRIST'S deservings, not for ours. And glory too--glory NOW, the
glory of being His, of serving Him in each least duty of life, and glory in the soul. Glory
apparent, too, as with unveiled faces we behold and rejoice in His glory, and reflect it ever
more and more. And glory to come, when we have done and suffered His will here, and are "for
ever with the LORD!"

"No good thing will He withhold from them that walk uprightly." Ah! How often, when we have
been dissatisfied with the ways of GOD, we ought to have been dissatisfied with our own ways!
We did not think, perhaps, that in some matter or other we were not walking uprightly. If not
so, however, then the thing we desired was not for our good, and therefore was not given; or
the thing we feared was essential to our good, and hence was not withheld. We are often mistaken:
GOD, never. "No good thing will He withhold": shall we be so foolish, so wayward, as after
this to desire that which our Father in heaven withholds?

But sweet as are GOD'S promises, the PROMISER is greater and better. Finite human words fetter
the expression of the heart of the Infinite GIVER. Hence if we had claimed all the promises,
had opened our mouths most wide, and had asked with all the blessed presumption of loved and
favoured children--yet, above and beyond the promises, He would still be able to do exceeding
abundantly above all we ask or think. He delights to do so! Let not low thoughts, GOD-dishonouring
thoughts, unbelieving, distrustful thoughts, limit His blessings; for "No good thing will He
withhold from them that walk uprightly."