THE SHIPWRECK

A Story for the Young

by

REV. JOSEPH SPILLMANN, S. J.

Translated from the German

Mary Richards Gray

Second Edition

St. Louis, Mo., and Freiburg, (Baden) Published by B. Herder, 1910.

TALES OF FOREIGN LANDS A Series of Stories for the Young Edited by Rev. Joseph Spillmann, S.
J. Vol. VII. Copyright 1906 by Joseph Gummersbach.

CONTENTS.

Chapter.

    I. Two Young Friends
   II. Sad Tidings
  III. Aboard the "St. George"
   IV. With the Priest of the God of the Golden Fish
    V. In the City
   VI. The Chinese New Year
  VII. The Unexpected Departure
 VIII. A Very Real Danger
   IX. A New Plan
    X. The Hurricane
   XI. Stranded
  XII. At Last

To

ANN ELIZA SMYTHE OF CHICAGO

The translator dedicates her part of this little volume.

THE SHIPWRECK.

CHAPTER I.

Two Young Friends.

At the mouth of the great river of Canton lies a maze of islands large and small, of which
the most important is Hongkong on account of its fine harbor.  More than half a century ago
the English seized upon this island and forced the Chinese to cede it to them.  Then it was
little more than a barren rock with a low swampy shore on which were a few villages inhabited
by poor fisher folk.  The swamps have been drained, gardens planted, and villas built, until
now the once barren heights vie in beauty with the grass-grown slopes of the hills at the foot
of which in the shade of great trees nestle pleasant little fisher hamlets.  On the north side
of the island stands the capital city, Victoria, in which tier above tier, stair-like the rows
of houses and splendid buildings rise one above another up the side of a hill. Beautiful quays,
broad streets lined with shade trees, churches, barracks, theaters, hospitals, hotels, and
shops with great show windows take one back in thought to the European capitals; and as the
elaborately decorated pagodas are not near to the Christian churches, and, as there are not
many more Chinese than English people in the streets, one can almost forget that he is within
the confines of China and a tropical land.

In this great capital city nearly all the missionary societies of China have settlements, and
in each of the missionary seminaries the stranger finds a hospitable welcome, but the one we
like best of all to visit is the beautiful College of the Holy Saviour in Mayland.  It stands
in the very shadow of the cathedral, the tall spires of which, towering to the heavens, tell
us in which direction to turn our steps to find it.  We know full well that the door-keeper,
the old Italian Brother with snow-white hair and coal-black eyes, will greet us cordially,
and show us the garden and the grounds on which blonde-haired European boys play in brotherly
fashion with pig-tailed Chinese youths.  When Brother Onufrio--for this is the name of the
door-keeper--is in very good humor and has the time he tells us stories of his experiences
in the College of the Holy Saviour in which he has been in active service since its foundation.
One of these is the wonderful history of the small Irish lad, Willy Brown, the son of a sea
captain, and his friend, the Chinese foundling, Joseph.  We shall tell the tale just as Brother
Onufrio would tell it, beginning with the day in the first year of his residence in Hongkong
when the crosses were placed on the spires of the dome of the cathedral.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

A few days before the Chinese New Year in 1858 the work on the cathedral had progressed so
far that the great golden crosses could be erected.  Securely fastened with strong ropes they
lay at the foot of the scaffolding ready to be drawn up into place, and standing about in a
half circle were missioners, pupils, and workmen.  The Apostolic Prefect, dressed in festal
robes, and attended by the small acolytes, Willy Brown and the Chinese Joseph, had blessed
the crosses.  Then at a signal the workmen pulled the ropes and, as they rose on high, the
clear, piping voices of the boys rang out in the splendid old hymn:

  The Royal banners forward go,
  The Cross shines forth in mystic glow;
  On which the One Who in our flesh was made
  Our sentence bore, our ransom paid.

When the crosses had been put in place the Prefect made a speech, saying among other things,
"Now afar over Hongkong and its harbor where it may be seen not only by all the people who
dwell here but also by those who come in ships from far distant ports shines the sign of Our
Lord."  Of all that the head of the order of missioners said on this occasion this impressed
little Willy most, and when the celebration was over the small acolyte went to Father Somazzo
and said: "Father, the Apostolic Prefect said that the cross on the cathedral could be seen
from all the ships that come into the harbor.  From the cross can you see all the ships?"

"Yes, certainly, Willy," he answered.  "From all the ships, streets, open squares, and hills
round about from which the cross is visible, any and all those places are visible from the
dome on which the cross stands."

"Oh, then, Father, let me climb up.  It is not dangerous.  The ladders are fastened tightly
to the scaffolding, and the scaffolding is so strong that it will hold big men.  Yesterday
at recess Joseph almost climbed up; he would have gone to the very top, if the Prefect had
not seen him and called him down.  O Father, don't frown so at me, but let me go.  I want so
much to see whether my father's ship has come.  He wrote that he would be here before the New
Year, and I would know his ship at a glance from the golden picture of holy Saint George that's
on the bow.  Please, Father, please."

Father Somazzo shook his head and said: "The ship is too far away for you to see what is painted
on the bow, and besides it is too dangerous for you to climb up there.  You might get dizzy
and fall, and what would your father say if he were to come here and find you a corpse, or
with your legs and arms broken?"

"Oh, but Father, I do not get dizzy.  I have often been up on the rigging of the 'Saint George',
in the crow's nest, and even on the very highest yard.  I know every bit of the rigging of
the ship.  O Father, let me climb up right now."

The teacher looked at Willy earnestly and raised his finger chidingly. "Willy," he said, "you've
got that stubborn little head of yours set again.  How often have I told you that it is not
becoming for you to insist on having your own way.  No, you cannot climb up to the dome under
any circumstances.  I forbid it."

With that Father Somazzo left the small boy standing in the garden and followed the other missioners
into the house.  Willy looked about him, half frightened, half defiant, and giving his cap
a jerk down over his curly yellow hair muttered, as he glanced at the shining cross: "I will
climb up there, and he can punish me if he likes.  Let him catch me first."

Willy Brown was really not a naughty boy, but he could be very willful at times.  Irish by
birth and accustomed to more liberty than the Italian teacher was wont to give his pupils in
Hongkong, he did not always submit readily to the rather strict discipline of the school, but
aside from this was an exemplary child.  In order to break him of his habit of being so stubborn
his teacher often commanded or forbade him to do things which otherwise would never have been
thought of a second time.  Just now the one desire of Willy's heart was to see his father's
ship, and to him the climbing of the scaffolding seemed so wholly without danger that he looked
upon the command which he had received as an act of tyranny, and resolved to disobey.  His
conscience said to him, "It is a sin to disobey," but he heeded not the small voice within
him.  Before going up he sought out his favorite companion, a little twelve year old Chinaman.
The boys were of an age and were to receive their first communion at the same time--facts which
created a bond of sympathy between two children almost as totally unlike as it was possible
for children to be.  The young Chinaman was a foundling.  His parents after the fashion of
many of the Chinese had exposed him when but a few days old, thus consigning him to death,
although their heathen religion forbids the practice, and if the Sisters of Mercy had not found
and cared for him in the orphanage he would have perished.  There the boy was baptized and
brought up in the Christian religion.  And when the years passed by, as Joseph--this was the
name given him at baptism--showed decided talent, he was put in school, and finally given over
to the missioners in the college, to be trained for the priesthood, if God called him to the work.

At the very time that Willy was seeking for Joseph, Joseph was seeking for Willy, and, when
he heard the voice of his red-cheeked companion, his black slanting eyes danced and his yellow
face flushed with pleasure.

"Hello, Peppo," said Willy, addressing him by the nickname which old Brother Onufrio had given him.

"Come with me behind the camelia-bush where Father Somazzo cannot see us."

"But why must he not see us?  You are not going to do anything wrong, are you?" asked the small
Chinaman trembling.

"What?  Anything wrong?  I'll play him a trick or two--the tyrant--and that will not be wrong,
I say.  Is there anything wrong about my looking to see whether my father's boat is here? 
Come with me right now."  Peppo hesitated.  "Come this minute or I'll drag you along by your
pig-tail the way naughty Freddy used to do before I took you in charge."

Joseph went with his protector without more ado, but did not approve of the plan disclosed
to him behind the camelia bush.

"Don't do it, Willy.  It will be disobedience, and it's against the fourth commandment."

"The fourth commandment of God tells me to love my father, and for love of my father I want
to climb up and look for his ship.  That cannot be against the fourth commandment," said the
sinful distorter.

The sophism did not enlighten small Peppo.  "I believe, Willy," he said, "that it is against
the fourth commandment, because the Father has forbidden it.  He will be very sorry to have
you do this, and will give us a dreadful punishment.  Only think! the day after tomorrow will
be the Chinese New Year, and then in the evening we shall be allowed to go to the marketplace
and the harbor to see all the lights,--and the fireworks,--and the Punch and Judy show, if
we are good boys.  You have never in all your life seen anything so beautiful,--green, and
red, and blue, and yellow lanterns,--and all the people,--and the sky-rockets,--and the puppet
show.  Wouldn't you be sorry to have to stay at home for punishment while all of us boys go
to the show?" Willy was almost persuaded and hesitated a moment; then he struck his heels into
the ground defiantly and said:

"Never mind, Peppo, Father Somazzo won't catch me, and, if he does, I won't tell on you.  Now
you've got to help me over the wall, and I'll climb up on the other side where he can't see
me from the house.  Come, now hurry up, Peppo, if you want to be my friend."

Unwillingly the young Chinaman yielded to his comrade's command.  He felt it was wrong to lend
a helping hand to one who was disobeying, but he did not wish to lose his best friend, the
one who had so often defended him from the teasings of his companions.  He slipped along with
Willy in the shadow of the bushes, then helped him climb the wall, but even when the youthful
sinner had swung himself from the wall to the scaffolding he remonstrated, saying:

"Willy, don't do it.  Come down."

"Nonsense, Peppo," he said as he began to ascend.

