Then they were in the tunnel Dantor had told them about, smooth walls speeding past as the
swiftly moving platform carried them on. The great arched chamber opened before them at last
and they saw that the workmen were returning to their tasks. The huge breech of the rocket-tube
had cooled to a dimly visible red, the second charge having done its work.

Hands in his pockets and walking stiffly as if mechanized, the Earth man presented himself
before the guard at the entrance, Ulana pressed close to his side. He feigned the hypnotic state.

"I-an-i-to," he repeated in jerky syllables, acting the part, "he--sent us--with message--for
Farley."

The guard grinned. Even here the story of the Earth man and the Rulan maiden was known. The
strange leniency of Ianito in permitting them to remain together was the topic of the day.
He waved them through with an indulgent gesture. Ianito knew what he was about, and would have
his little joke--later.

Tom Farley was there, waiting with the Llott scientists until the breech block should have
cooled sufficiently to permit them to open it and prepare the third charge. A flicker of recognition
in his glazed eyes told Blaine he was not altogether gone, but Tommy gave no other outward
sign. Perhaps with Ianito no longer alive, the mental control would become ineffective.

They had not long to wait, for the breech was water-jacketed and cooled rapidly. Blaine puttered
around with unfamiliar test tubes and retorts, watching for a chance to get a word with Tommy
in private. He was almost certain that his friend was recovering. Ulana sat there on a greasy
bench, regarding the scene with anxious eyes. She was a brick: game as they made them.

Tommy was beside him then, weighing a heap of the dry soil for the next charge. "Are you all
right?" Blaine whispered.

But Tom Farley stared back with not a glimmer of comprehension: He was still a victim of the
mechanizing process of the Llotta. With a carefully planned but seemingly careless gesture,
Blaine slid back the weight on the scale arm. This charge would be short of the proper ratio
of dry soil. He wondered what the effect would be.

                     *      *      *      *      *

One of the Llott scientists came over then with the radium capsule, and Tommy attached it to
the clamp that would hold it in contact with the cube of k-metal. The dry soil was shoveled
into the breech block by the unsuspecting Llotta and the thing was ready for the placing of
the excitant.

The great breech block swung home and a siren shrieked. All work in the laboratory was suspended
and the workmen stood around in expectant silence. Blaine found himself worrying as to the
possible result of his tampering.

"I saw you!" Tommy hissed then in his ear. "There'll be hell to pay now. We gotta beat it."

Good old Tommy! He'd recovered after all. He, too, had been shamming at the last. Blaine saw
they were unobserved and thrust one of the pistols in his hand.

"Now!" his friend rasped. "Before they get wise. Grab the girl and we'll make a break for the
tunnel entrance: over there."

Ulana took in the situation at a glance and was at his side. They moved swiftly in the direction
of the entrance through which they had come.

A terrific roar came from the base of the rocket tube and the Llotta broke into excited screechings.
Something different about it this time. There was a terrible menacing note in the jarring thump
which preceded the roar. A muffled boom high in the five mile depth of rock strata above them
spelled disaster of an unknown and terrifying nature. The breech of the tube was white with
heat in an instant of time.

Pandemonium broke loose now and the Earth men were running for the exit to the lift, covering
their retreat with brandished ray pistols. Ulana, brave girl, ran alongside, swinging a pinch
bar she had picked up, ready to help.

CHAPTER XI

Disaster

The great crystal sphere on the central pedestal was ablaze with the scarlet warning signal
of the Supreme Council. A sonorous voice from its depths boomed out above the clamor.

"Kill them! Kill the Earth men," it roared. "The Zara is dead and Ianito has vanished. Denari
has mounted the throne, and it is he who commands you. Kill the traitors!"

But the Llotta and the green-bronze guards needed no command from the new ruler of Antrid.
These devils from Earth had tampered with the last rocket-tube charge; probably had caused
serious damage to the tube itself. They must die.

Only the guards were armed, and the Llotta swarmed so closely in pursuit of the fugitives that
it was impossible for them to use their ray pistols. At the great iron gate that now closed
the exit stood the guard who had admitted them. Tommy's pistol spurted blue flame and he was
enveloped by the destroying energy.

Ulana screamed as a Llott grasped her, wrenching the iron bar from her hands. Blaine covered
the intervening distance in a bound and his fist crashed to the fellow's jaw, snapping back
his head and lifting him off his feet. He crashed to the floor plates an inert heap and the
Earth man recovered the pinch bar.

Pocketing his pistol, he swung the bar with both hands in mighty circles that took terrible
toll of the Llotta. They fell back before the onslaught of the infuriated Terrestrial, leaving
eight of their number dead or dying with crashed skulls and broken ribs and arms.

                     *      *      *      *      *

"Open the gate, Tommy," he shouted. "Use your pistol on the lock if you have to." A guard was
coming at him and he ducked to the floor as the blue flame crackled, singeing the hair from
his head and blistering the scalp as it spent its charge in fusing a cross member from one
of the steel columns nearby.

He fired from under his prostrate body and the guard thrashed his arms wildly in the blue mist,
then stiffened to a sparkling vanishing figure within the dissipating vapor.

A gas grenade burst at his side and Blaine sprang to his feet, running from the spreading sulphurous
cloud. The gate was open and its lock dropped molten metal. Good old Tommy!

The poison gas hid them from their pursuers for the moment and they were through the gate,
all three.

"Get back!" Blaine shouted: "the gas!" He held his breath and closed his eyes as he slammed
the gate and wedged it with the pinch bar he still carried. That would hold them for a while.

The gas was upon him and his skin flamed scorching hot from the contact. He mustn't breathe:
mustn't open his eyes. He groped there in the scalding vapor, blindly. Tommy had him by the
wrist then, dragging him away. Ulana was calling somewhere there in the darkness. His lungs
were bursting. And then he knew the air was pure, and he exhaled the long pent breath noisily,
and inhaled deeply.

Eyes smarting and head reeling, he saw Ulana through a haze of dancing smoke wisps he knew
were illusory. She was safe, thank God! They were on the moving platform then, on the return
side, and his strength was returning. Narrow escape, he'd had, from that lung-rotting gas.
Ulana smiled happily when his vision cleared.

                     *      *      *      *      *

The speeding platform carried them swiftly toward the lift that had brought them down. What
if the lift would not operate? This Denari might well have shut off the power or even returned
the cage to the upper end of the shaft.

"Boy, oh boy," Tommy was saying, "you sure did gum up the works. Know what happened?"

"Plenty, from the look of things," Blaine smiled grimly.

"I'll say. You cut down the dry soil ratio a third. Not sure of the exact reaction, but the
expansion was too rapid. Explosion followed before the air could be driven from the tube. I'll
bet the big cannon was wrecked somewhere overhead. Boy, what a blast!"

As if the last sentence were a prophecy, there came a terrific jar that twisted the platform
violently from under them. They were thrown headlong and an awe-inspiring rumbling came up
from the vitals of Antrid. An earthquake! The tortured satellite could not withstand the strains
set up by the tremendous reactive force of the rocket-tube. The lights snuffed out and the
platform came to a grinding stop. One of the underground power plants was out of commission
and they were trapped here in the stifling darkness.

"Nice fix we're in now!" Tommy grunted where he had fallen.

Blaine, having located Ulana, was relieved to find that she was unharmed. "Yes," he said slowly;
"but there's one thing sure: they can't follow us here unless they walk."

"Why can't we walk?" Ulana asked with forced cheerfulness. "It isn't far now."

"Oh, we can walk all right; we'll have to. And here's hoping we get somewhere." Tommy, at least,
was undaunted so far.

                     *      *      *      *      *

It was their only chance now. Blaine held fast to the girl as they felt their way along the
smooth tunnel wall, and Tom Farley, behind them there in the darkness, kept up a running fire
of small talk that was utterly irrelevant. Nothing could keep that Irishman down.

After what seemed like miles of steady plodding they glimpsed a light ahead. They quickened
their pace. It was the open door at the base of the shaft, and the cage of the lift was there,
fully lighted and waiting. Denari had not shut off the power after all. But of course! It came
to Blaine in a flash; this was a private shaft, used by Ianito in his clandestine visits to
the palace of the Zara and for his own use in descending to the sub-surface chamber at the
base of the rocket-tube. Denari did not even know it existed.

Strange they had not been followed. Surely the Llotta could have forced that gate back there
in a comparatively short time. A mass of falling rock, shaken loose by the temblor that cut
off their light and stopped the moving platform, must have closed the tunnel.

They were in the cage now, shooting aloft with smooth acceleration. Tommy fidgeted and paced
the floor in the narrow confines like a caged animal.

"Lord, man," he said, after a while, "what I wouldn't give for a cigarette!"

"Is that all you can think of?" Blaine was sarcastic. His own nerves were on edge. They were
nearing the upper end of the shaft. "Try to do a little thinking about what's going to happen
up there above Ilen-dar. We've got to do some tall figuring and some swift scrapping before
we're through."

"Sure." Tommy shrugged his shoulders. "There'll be a lot of fireworks, I guess. But I wish
I had a smoke just the same."

Ulana pouted. They spoke in English and she did not understand. But the expression of their
faces forced a laugh to her lips, one of those silvery tinkles that caught at Blaine's heart
strings. All that mattered now was to see her to safety--and happiness.

                     *      *      *      *      *

The cage slowed up and came to rest as the automatic control of its gravity energy functioned.
The door rolled back and Blaine thrust his head through the opening, pistol in hand.

There on the floor of the corridor that led to the great dome room was a crumpled figure. Dantor!
It couldn't be that they had slain him! Blaine was on his knees by the body, raising the blood-smeared
head with gentle hands. A deep gash extended from over the right temple up into the scalp and
the skull was crushed; a mortal wound. But the doughty heart of the aged scientist still beat
on, weakly, but with determination. He opened his eyes and smiled.

"Ah, you have come at last," he sighed. "I have waited here to warn you and advise you."

"Easy now." Blaine straightened the helpless limbs and cradled the drooping head on his knees.
Ulana was beside him, bravely holding back the sobs that were in her throat.

"I saw--in the crystal," Dantor whispered. "And Denari struck me down when I expressed relief
at your escape. Carson--Ulana--Farley--you can escape if you do as I say. Antrid is doomed;
the incorrectly proportioned charge burst the rocket-tube in several places and tore the muzzle
asunder where it projected from the copper shell of our world. With the explosion at the muzzle
a huge section of the copper casing was blown away and the atmosphere of Antrid is now escaping
rapidly into the vacuum of space...."

Dantor closed his eyes, and a spasm of pain twisted his features.

Tommy expelled a shuddering breath, solemnly expressive.

                     *      *      *      *      *

The aged scientist fought off the grim spectre valiantly. He patted Ulana's hand as his weak
voice resumed. "You will take care of her I know, Carson. Take her with you to your own world;
make her happy." He fell silent once more.

"But how?" Blaine whispered.

"Oh yes, I am forgetting. The side passage--next one on the right--it leads to a storeroom
of the oxygen helmets and vacuum-tight suits in which you can step forth from the adjoining
airlock. Your space ship is there ... unharmed.... In it you will be able to return ... and...."

But Dantor's spirit had fled the pain-racked body. Blaine closed his lids and stretched him
on the hard metal floor, crossing the thin hands on his breast. Ulana sobbed openly for a moment
and then bowed her head in silence.

"The last of the Rulans," Blaine said softly, looking down at all that was mortal of the Rulan
scientist.

"No," Ulana whispered, "I am the last, my Carson."

"You'll become a good American, sweetheart," he said gently. "That is, if we get away from
here." There was no time to be lost, at that. At any moment this Denari might find them. "Come,"
he begged, drawing her from the body, "we must hurry."

Following the passage indicated by Dantor they came at last to an open door. A noticeable draft
blew outward and Blaine thought grimly of the scenes that were being enacted throughout all
Antrid. The air that made life possible was escaping. And the news broadcasts from Ilen-dar
would have notified the entire population by this time. There would be rioting, panics, murder
and suicide in the cities of the accursed Llotta and in their subject countries. A frantic
effort of the scientists to stop the gap would avail them nothing: it was an impossible task
now. The construction of the great shell had been a different matter; there was some natural
atmosphere remaining in those days. And, finally, they would suffocate, every last one of them.
They'd die miserably, purple of face and with swollen tongues protruding.

                     *      *      *      *      *

The open door led to a railed-in balcony that looked out over the dome room. Machines still
hummed there but the place was deserted save for a few scattered corpses: probably those of
the Llotta who had objected when Denari usurped the throne.

A second door opened from the balcony into the store room of the moon-suits. At least these
helmeted contraptions resembled the so-called moon-suits used by inhabitants of the inner planets
when they visited a body having no atmosphere.

Ulana needed some assistance with the bulky equipment, and then Blaine climbed into another
of the suits and locked his helmet. A moment later they were in the air-lock with Tommy, who
had attired himself more quickly and was operating the controls.

At the outer hatch they waited until the air pressure reduced to a practically complete vacuum.
Their suits distended ludicrously now by the pressure within, they unclamped the hatch and
stepped out to the surface of the great copper shell. It vibrated under their feet to the blast
from the huge gap that was not five miles distant.

The RX8 was there as Dantor had said, a slim tapered, cylinder that gleamed, a thing of beauty,
in the reflected light of Jupiter which now was millions of miles distant. The sun was not
visible and the light of the mother planet cast long shadows on the copper plates. Pelting
ice particles clattered resoundingly against the metal helmets: frozen moisture from the escaping
air of Antrid.

Blaine cried out in surprise; then remembered his companions could not hear him. There were
moving shadows over there, four of them, nearing the hull of the RX8. The Llotta had beat them
to it. Denari, no doubt, intending to escape with a chosen few of his subjects. He broke into
a run through the now blinding hail storm. He would have to head them off; else, Ulana was
lost, they all were lost.

CHAPTER XII

The Last of Antrid

Tommy was running beside him now and Ulana was not far behind. They too had seen the danger.
If they could not reach the vessel ahead of the Llotta; would not fight them off and gain possession,
it was all off. They'd die here, horribly, on the roof of Antrid.

And the ray pistols were useless: they could not be fired inside the ballooning fabric of their
suits without destroying it and themselves. There were only the hooks that were attached to
the bulging sleeves--iron hooks for lifting--but these were heavy and sharp pointed. They might
be of some use, at that.

Once they were completely blinded by a deluge of ice particles, Blaine could see neither the
RX8 nor the waddling figures of the Llotta. He clung to his companions by means of the hooks,
interlocking his with theirs, and waited for the storm to ease off. If ever it would! Pressing
the thick glass window of his helmet against that of Ulana's, he saw that her eyes were wide
with terror. But she smiled bravely and nodded encouragement. What a girl!

There was a momentary clearing a little way from the white wall and he saw the hull of the
ship, a dim shape that loomed suddenly distinct and near. They dashed for the open port, still
holding together.

One of the bulging, helmeted Llotta had reached the port and was scrambling inside. Blaine
loosed himself and pounced on him, swinging one of his hooks in a sweeping, clawing arc. It
caught in the fabric of the fellow's suit, ripping a foot-long slit. Like a punctured ballon
it deflated and became a shriveled, clinging thing. The Llott hung there over the rim of the
port, instantly suffocated and frozen stiff in the vacuum and intense cold of space as the
air and heat of the suit was dissipated.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Blaine dragged the rigid body from the opening and flung it to the white powdered copper surface.
Wheeling, he saw that another of the Llotta had engaged Tommy. Two of them: in fact, there
were three swollen figures in that mix-up. And the fourth was advancing on a smaller figure
that turned and ran. Ulana! In a flash he was after them. Tom Farley would have to look out
for himself, poor devil. With two of them against him, the outcome was dubious.

And then came a second snow-like deluge of white particles. He stumbled on, groping blindly;
slipping, sliding in the precarious footing. It was ankle deep now, that powdery carpet of
ice particles. Oh God, if that Llott devil got Ulana! He groaned aloud, a hideous mournful
echo in the confines of the helmet. Groping, staggering there in the white silence, he gave
up hope. The white-carpeted shell of Antrid heaved mightily from the force of some new concussion
within, and threw Blaine scrambling.

