One might suppose that the Lowlands, geographically only an extension of northern England and
inhabited by an English-speaking people, would have early united with the southern kingdom.
But matters turned out otherwise. The Lowlands and the Highlands came together under a line
of Celtic kings, who fixed their residence at Edinburgh and long maintained their independence.

SCOTLAND ANNEXED BY EDWARD I

Edward I, having conquered Wales, took advantage of the disturbed conditions which prevailed
in Scotland to interfere in the affairs of that country. The Scotch offered a brave but futile
resistance under William Wallace. This heroic leader, who held out after most of his countrymen
submitted, was finally captured and executed. His head, according to the barbarous practice
of the time, was set upon a pole on London Bridge. The English king now annexed Scotland without
further opposition.

ROBERT BRUCE AND BANNOCKBURN, 1314 A.D.

But William Wallace by his life and still more by his death had lit a fire which might never
be quenched. Soon the Scotch found another champion in the person of Robert Bruce. Edward I,
now old and broken, marched against him, but died before reaching the border. The weakness
of his son, Edward II, permitted the Scotch, ably led by Bruce, to win the signal victory of
Bannockburn, near Stirling Castle. Here the Scottish spearmen drove the English knighthood
into ignominious flight and freed their country from its foreign overlords.

SCOTTISH INDEPENDENCE

The battle of Bannockburn made a nation. A few years afterwards the English formally recognized
the independence of the northern kingdom. So the great design of Edward I to unite all the
peoples of Britain under one government had to be postponed for centuries. [17]

IRELAND

No one kingdom ever arose in Ireland out of the numerous tribes into which the Celtic-speaking
inhabitants were divided. The island was not troubled, however, by foreign invaders till the
coming of the Northmen in the ninth century. [18] The English, who first entered Ireland during
the reign of Henry II, did not complete its conquest till the seventeenth century. Ireland
by its situation could scarcely fail to become an appanage of Great Britain, but the dividing
sea has combined with differences in race, language, and religion, and with English misgovernment,
to prevent anything like a genuine union of the conquerors and the conquered.

187. UNIFICATION OF FRANCE, 987-1328 A.D.

PHYSICAL FRANCE

Nature seems to have intended that France should play a leading part in European affairs. The
geographical unity of the country is obvious. Mountains and seas form its permanent boundaries,
except on the north-east where the frontier is not well defined. The western coast of France
opens on the Atlantic, now the greatest highway of the world's commerce, while on the southeast
France touches the Mediterranean, the home of classical civilization. This intermediate position
between two seas helps us to understand why French history should form, as it were, a connecting
link between ancient and modern times.

RACIAL FRANCE

But the greatness of France has been due, also, to the qualities of the French people. Many
racial elements have contributed to the population. The blood of prehistoric tribes, whose
monuments and grave mounds are scattered over the land, still flows in the veins of Frenchmen.
At the opening of historic times France was chiefly occupied by the Celts, whom Julius Caesar
found there and subdued. The Celts, or Gauls, have formed in later ages the main stock of the
French nation, but their language gave place to Latin after the Roman conquest. In the course
of five hundred years the Gauls were so thoroughly Romanized that they may best be described
as Gallo-Romans. The Burgundians, Franks, and Northmen afterwards added a Teutonic element
to the population, as well as some infusion of Teutonic laws and customs.

THE CAPETIAN DYNASTY

France, again, became a great nation because of the greatness of its rulers. Hugh Capet, who
became the French king in 987 A.D., [19] was fortunate in his descendants. The Capetian dynasty
was long lived, and for more than three centuries son followed father on the throne without
a break in the succession. [20] During this time the French sovereigns worked steadily to exalt
the royal power and to unite the feudal states of medieval France into a real nation under
a common government. Their success in this task made them, at the close of the Middle Ages,
the strongest monarchs in Europe.

FRANCE AND ITS FIEFS

Hugh Capet's duchy--the original France--included only a small stretch of inland country centering
about Paris on the Seine and Orleans on the Loire. His election to the kingship did not increase
his power over the great lords who ruled in Normandy, Brittany, Aquitaine, Burgundy, and other
parts of the country. They did homage to the king for their fiefs and performed the usual feudal
services, but otherwise regarded themselves as independent in their own territories.

PHILIP II, AUGUSTUS, 1180-1223 A.D.

The most considerable additions to the royal domains were made by Philip II, called Augustus.
We have already referred to his contest with Pope Innocent III and to his participation in
the Third Crusade. [21] The English king, John, was Philip's vassal for Normandy and other
provinces in France. A quarrel between the two rulers gave Philip an opportunity to declare
John's fiefs forfeited by feudal law. Philip then seized all the English possessions north
of the river Loire. The loss of these possessions abroad had the result of separating England
almost completely from Continental interests; for France it meant a great increase in territory
and population. Philip made Paris his chief residence, and that city henceforth became the
capital of France.

LOUIS IX, THE SAINT, 1226-1276 A.D.

During the long reign of Philip's grandson, Louis IX, rich districts to the west of the Rhone
were added to the royal domains. This king, whose Christian virtues led to his canonization,
distinguished himself as an administrator. His work in unifying France may be compared with
that of Henry II in England. He decreed that only the king's money was to circulate in the
provinces owned directly by himself, thus limiting the right of coinage enjoyed by feudal lords.
He restricted very greatly the right of private war and forbade the use of judicial duels.
Louis also provided that important cases could be appealed from feudal courts to the king's
judges, who sat in Paris and followed in their decisions the principles of Roman law. In these
and other ways he laid the foundations of absolute monarchy in France.

PHILIP IV, THE FAIR, 1265-1314 A.D.

The grandson of St. Louis, Philip IV, did much to organize a financial system for France. Now
that the kingdom had become so large and powerful, the old feudal dues were insufficient to
pay the salaries of the royal officials and support a standing army. Philip resorted to new
methods of raising revenue by imposing various taxes and by requiring the feudal lords to substitute
payments in money for the military service due from them.

THE ESTATES-GENERAL

Philip also called into existence the Estates-General, an assembly in which the clergy, the
nobles, and representatives from the commons (the "third estate") met as separate bodies and
voted grants of money. The Estates-General arose almost at the same time as the English Parliament,
to which it corresponded, but it never secured the extensive authority of that body. After
a time the kings of France became so powerful that they managed to reign without once summoning
the nation in council. The French did not succeed, as the English had done, in founding political
liberty upon the vote and control of taxation.

188. THE HUNDRED YEARS' WAR BETWEEN FRANCE AND ENGLAND, 1337-1453 A.D.

PRETEXT FOR THE WAR

The task of unifying France was interrupted by a deplorable war between that country and England.
It continued, including periods of truce, for over a century. The pretext for the war was found
in a disputed succession. In 1328 A.D. the last of the three sons of Philip IV passed away,
and the direct line of the house of Capet, which had reigned over France for more than three
hundred years, came to an end. The English ruler, Edward III, whose mother was the daughter
of Philip IV, considered himself the next lineal heir. The French nobles were naturally unwilling
to receive a foreigner as king, and gave the throne, instead, to a nephew of Philip IV. This
decision was afterwards justified on the ground that, by the old law of the Salian Franks,
women could neither inherit estates nor transmit them to a son. [22]

REASONS FOR THE WAR

Edward III at first accepted the situation. Philip VI, however, irritated Edward by constant
encroachments on the territories which the English still kept in France. Philip also allied
himself with the Scotch and interfered with English trade interests in the county of Flanders.
[23] This attitude of hostility provoked retaliation. Edward now reasserted his claim to the
crown of France and prepared by force of arms to make it good.

BATTLES OF CRECY, 1346 A.D., AND POITIERS, 1356 A.D.

In 1346 A.D. Edward led his troops across the Channel and at Crecy gained a complete victory
over the knighthood of France. Ten years later the English at Poitiers almost annihilated another
French force much superior in numbers. These two battles were mainly won by foot soldiers armed
with the long bow, in the use of which the English excelled. Ordinary iron mail could not resist
the heavy, yard-long arrows, which fell with murderous effect upon the bodies of men and horses
alike. Henceforth infantry, when properly armed and led, were to prove themselves on many a
bloody field more than a match for feudal cavalry. The long bow, followed later by the musket,
struck a deadly blow at feudalism.

THE "BLACK PRINCE"

Edward's son, the Prince of Wales, when only sixteen years of age, won his spurs by distinguished
conduct at Crecy. It was the "Black Prince," [24] also, who gained the day at Poitiers, where
he took prisoner the French king, John. Toward his royal captive he behaved in chivalrous fashion.
At supper, on the evening of the battle, he stood behind John's chair and waited on him, praising
the king's brave deeds. But this "flower of knighthood," who regarded warfare as only a tournament
on a larger scale, could be ruthless in his treatment of the common people. On one occasion
he caused three thousand inhabitants of a captured town--men, women and children--to be butchered
before his eyes. The incident shows how far apart in the Middle Ages were chivalry and humanity.

RENEWAL OF THE WAR

The English, in spite of their victories, could not conquer France. The French refused to fight
more pitched battles and retired to their castles and fortified towns. The war almost ceased
for many years after the death of Edward III. It began again early in the fifteenth century,
and the English this time met with more success. They gained possession of almost all France
north of the Loire, except the important city of Orleans. Had the English taken it, French
resistance must have collapsed. That they did not take it was due to one of the most remarkable
women in history--Joan of Arc. [25]

THE "MAID OF ORLEANS," 1429 A.D.

Joan was a peasant girl, a native of the little village of Domremy. Always a devout and imaginative
child, she early began to see visions of saints and angels and to hear mysterious voices. At
the time of the siege of Orleans the archangel Michael appeared to her, so she declared, and
bade her go forth and save France. Joan obeyed, and though barely seventeen years of age made
her way to the court of the French king. There her piety, simplicity, and evident faith in
her mission overcame all doubts. Clad in armor, girt with an ancient sword, and with a white
banner borne before her, Joan was allowed to accompany an army for the relief of Orleans. She
inspired the French with such enthusiasm that they quickly compelled the English to raise the
siege. Then Joan led her king to Reims and stood beside him at his coronation in the cathedral.

END OF THE WAR

Though Joan was soon afterwards captured by the English, who, to their lasting dishonor, burned
her as a witch, her example nerved the French to further resistance. The English gradually
lost ground and in 1453 A.D., the year of the fall of Constantinople, abandoned the effort
to conquer a land much larger than their own. They retained of the French territories only
the port of Calais and the Channel Islands. [26]

EFFECTS OF THE WAR

Few wars have had less to justify them, either in their causes or in their consequences, than
this long struggle between England and France. It was a calamity to both lands. For England
it meant the dissipation abroad of the energies which would have been better employed at home.
For France it resulted in widespread destruction of property, untold suffering, famines, and
terrible loss of life. From this time dates that traditional hostility between the two countries
which was to involve them in future conflicts. One beneficial effect the war did have. It helped
to make the two nations conscious of their separate existence. The growth of a national feeling,
the awakening of a sentiment of patriotism, was especially marked in France, which had fought
so long for independence.

ENGLAND AFTER THE HUNDRED YEARS' WAR

Shortly after the conclusion of the Hundred Years' War the two branches of the English royal
family became involved in desperate struggle for the crown. It was known as the War of the
Roses, because the house of York took as its badge a white rose and the house of Lancaster,
a red rose. The contest lasted 1485 A.D., when the Lancastrians conquered, and their leader,
Henry Tudor, ascended the throne as Henry VII. He married a Yorkist wife, thus uniting the
two factions, and founded the Tudor dynasty. The War of the Roses arrested the progress of
English freedom. It created a demand for a strong monarchy which could keep order and prevent
civil strife between the nobles. The Tudors met that demand and ruled as absolute sovereigns.
It was more than a century before Parliament, representing the people, could begin to win back
free government. It did this only at the cost of a revolution.

FRANCE AFTER THE HUNDRED YEARS' WAR

France also issued from the Hundred Years' War with an absolute government. Strengthened by
victory over the English, the French kings were able to reduce both the nobility and the commons
to impotence. During the reign of Louis XI (1461-1483 A.D.) the royal domains were enlarged
by the addition of Anjou, Provence, and the duchy of Burgundy. His son, Charles VIII (1483-1498
A.D.), made Brittany a possession of the French crown. The unification of France was now almost
complete.

189. UNIFICATION OF SPAIN (TO 1492 A.D.)

THE SPANISH PENINSULA

The Spanish peninsula, known to the Romans as Hispania, is sharply separated from the rest
of Europe by the Pyrenees Mountains. At the same time the nearness of the peninsula to Africa
has always brought it into intimate relations with that continent. Just as Russia has formed
a link between Asia and Europe, so Spain has served as a natural highway from Africa to Europe.

THE SPANISH PEOPLE

The first settlers in Spain, of whom we know anything, were the Iberians. They may have emigrated
from northern Africa. After them came the Celts, who overran a large part of the peninsula
and appear to have mingled with the Iberians, thus forming the mixed people known as Celtiberians.
In historic times Spain was conquered by the Carthaginians, who left few traces of their occupation,
by the Romans, who thoroughly Romanized the country, by the Visigoths, who founded a Germanic
kingdom, and lastly by the Moors, who introduced Arabian culture and the faith of Islam. [27]
These invaders were not numerous enough greatly to affect the population, in which the Celtiberian
strain is still predominant.

CHRISTIAN STATES OF SPAIN

The Moors never wholly conquered a fringe of mountain territory in the extreme north of Spain.
Here a number of small Christian states, including Leon, Castile, Navarre, and Aragon, came
into being. In the west there also arose the Christian state of Portugal. Geographically, Portugal
belongs to Spain, from which it is separated only by artificial frontiers, but the country
has usually managed to maintain its independence.

RECOVERY OF SPAIN FROM THE MOORS

Acting sometimes singly and sometimes in concert, the Christian states fought steadily to enlarge
their boundaries at the expense of their Moslem neighbors. The contest had the nature of a
crusade, for it was blessed by the pope and supported by the chivalry of Europe. Periods of
victory alternated with periods of defeat, but by the close of the thirteenth century Mohammedan
Spain had been reduced to the kingdom of Granada at the southern extremity of the peninsula.

THE CID

The long struggle with the Moors made the Spanish a patriotic people, keenly conscious of their
national unity. The achievements of Christian warriors were recited in countless ballads, and
especially in the fine Poem of the Cid. It deals with the exploits of Rodrigo Diaz, better
known by the title of the Cid (lord) given to him by the Moors. The Cid of romance was the
embodiment of every knightly virtue; the real Cid was a bandit, who fought sometimes for the
Christians, sometimes against them, but always in his own interest. The Cid's evil deeds were
forgotten, however, and after his death in 1099 A.D. he became the national hero of Spain.

UNION OF CASTILE AND ARAGON, 1479 A.D.

Meanwhile the separate Spanish kingdoms were coming together to form a nation. Leon and Castile
in 1230 A.D. combined into the one kingdom of Castile, so named because its frontiers bristled
with castles against the Moors. But the most important step in the making of Spain was the
marriage of Ferdinand of Aragon to Isabella of Castile, leading in 1479 A.D. to the union of
these two kingdoms. About the same time the Castilian language began to crowd out the other
Spanish dialects and to become the national speech.

CONQUEST OF GRANADA, 1492 A.D.

The new sovereigns of Spain aimed to continue the unification of the peninsula by the conquest
of Granada. No effort was made by the Turks, who shortly before had captured Constantinople,
to defend this last stronghold of Islam in the West. The Moors, though thrown upon their own
resources, made a gallant resistance. At least once Ferdinand wearied of the struggle, but
Isabella's determination never wavered. In 1492 A.D. Granada surrendered, and the silver cross
of the crusading army was raised on the highest tower of the city. Moslem rule in Spain, after
an existence of almost eight centuries, now came to an end.

RULE OF FERDINAND AND ISABELLA

Ferdinand and Isabella belong in the front rank of European sovereigns. Like their contemporaries,
Henry VII and Louis XI, they labored with success to build up an absolute monarchy. Spain had
found, as England and France had found, that feudalism spelled disorder, and that only a strong
central government could keep the peace, repress crime, and foster trade and commerce. Ferdinand
and Isabella firmly established the supremacy of the crown. By the end of the fifteenth century
Spain had become a leading European power. Its importance in the councils of Europe was soon
to be increased by the marriage of a daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella to the heir of the
Austrian house of Hapsburg.

190. AUSTRIA AND THE SWISS CONFEDERATION, 1273-1499 A.D.

RISE OF AUSTRIA

The name Austria--in German Oesterreich--means simply the eastern part of any kingdom. It came
to be applied particularly to the territory on the Danube east of Bavaria, which Otto the Great
had formed into a mark or border province for defense against the Magyars. [28] This mark,
soon to be known as Austria, gained an important place among German states. The frontiers were
pushed down the Danube valley and the capital was finally located at Vienna, once a Roman city.
Frederick Barbarossa raised Austria to the rank of a duchy. Rudolf of Hapsburg, who became
emperor in 1273 A.D., first brought the country into the hands of the Hapsburg family. [29]

GROWTH OF AUSTRIA UNDER THE HAPSBURGS

The Hapsburgs founded the power of the present Austrian monarchy. At the end of the fourteenth
century their dominions included a large part of eastern Germany, [30] reaching from beyond
the Danube southward to the Adriatic. Early in the sixteenth century they secured Bohemia,
a Slavic land thrust like a wedge into German territory, as well as part of the Magyar land
of Hungary. The possession of these two kingdoms gave Austria its special character of a state
formed by the union under one ruler of several wholly distinct nations. Meanwhile the right
of election as Holy Roman Emperor became hereditary in the Hapsburg family.

SWITZERLAND

Switzerland, during the earlier period of the Middle Ages, formed a part of the German duchy
of Swabia and belonged to the Holy Roman Empire. [31] About two-thirds of the population of
Switzerland remain German in speech and feeling, though now the country includes districts
in which French or Italian are spoken. All Swiss laws are still proclaimed in the three languages.

SWITZERLAND AND AUSTRIA

Swiss history is closely bound up with that of Austria. The little mountain communities of
Schwyz, [32] Uri, and Unterwalden, on the shores of beautiful Lake Lucerne, were possessions
of the counts of Hapsburg. In 1291 A.D., the year when Rudolf of Hapsburg died, these three
"Forest Cantons" formed a confederation for resistance to their Hapsburg overlords. Additional
cantons joined the league, which now entered upon a long struggle, dear to all lovers of liberty,
against Austrian rule. Nowhere did the old methods of feudal warfare break down more conspicuously
than in the battles gained by Swiss pikemen over the haughty knights of Austria. The struggle
closed in 1499 A.D., when Switzerland became practically a free state. [33]

WILLIAM TELL AND ARNOLD VON WINKELRIED

Switzerland has two heroes of her war for independence. William Tell is a wholly mythical character,
for the story of a skillful marksman who succeeds in striking off some small object placed
on a child's head is found in England, Norway, Denmark, and other countries. The Swiss have
localized it in Uri. Another popular hero has a better claim to historical existence. It is
said that at a critical moment in the battle of Sempach, when the Swiss with their short weapons
failed to break the Austrian ranks, Arnold von Winkelried, a man of Unterwalden, came to the
rescue. Rushing single-handed upon the enemy, he seized all the spears within reach and turned
them into his own body. He thus opened a gap in the line, through which the Swiss pressed on
to victory. Winkelried's deed might well have been performed, though the evidence for it is
very scanty.

THE SWISS CONFEDERATION

Little Switzerland, lying in the heart of the Alps and surrounded by powerful neighbors, is
one of the most interesting states in Europe. The twenty-two communities, or cantons, which
make up the Swiss Confederation, differ among themselves in language, religion (Roman Catholic
or Protestant), and customs, according to their nearness to Germany, France, or Italy. Nevertheless
the Swiss form a patriotic and united nation. It is remarkable that a people whose chief bond
of union was common hostility to the Austrian Hapsburgs, should have established a federal
government so strong and enduring.

191. EXPANSION OF GERMANY

LINES OF GERMAN EXPANSION

An examination of the map shows how deficient Germany is in good natural boundaries. The valley
of the Danube affords an easy road to the southeast, a road which the early rulers of Austria
followed as far as Vienna and the Hungarian frontier. Eastward along the Baltic no break occurs
in the great plain stretching from the North Sea to the Ural Mountains. It was in this direction
that German conquests and colonization during the Middle Ages laid the foundation of modern
Prussia.

THE GERMAN AND THE SLAV

The Germans, in descending upon the Roman Empire, had abandoned much of their former territories
to the Slavs. In the reign of Charlemagne all the region between the Elbe and the Vistula belonged
to Slavic tribes. To win it back for Germany required several centuries of hard fighting. The
Slavs were heathen and barbarous, so that warfare with them seemed to be a kind of crusade.
In the main, however, German expansion eastward was a business venture, due to the need for
free land. It was the same need which in the nineteenth century carried the frontiers of the
United States from the Alleghanies to the Pacific.

BRANDENBURG AND POMERANIA

German expansion began early in the tenth century, when Henry the Fowler annexed Brandenburg
between the Elbe and the Oder. [34] Subsequently much of the territory between the Oder and
the Vistula, including Pomerania on the southern coast of the Baltic, came under German control.
The Slavic inhabitants were exterminated or reduced to slavery. Their place was taken by thousands
of German colonists, who introduced Christianity, built churches and monasteries, cleared the
woods, drained the marshes, and founded many cities destined to become centers of German trade
and culture.

PRUSSIA

Between the Vistula and the Niemen lay the lands of the Prussians, a non- Teutonic people closely
related to the Slavs. The Prussian language and religion have disappeared, the Prussians themselves
have been completely absorbed by the Germans who settled in their country, but the Prussian
name is borne to-day by one of the great states of modern Europe.

THE TEUTONIC ORDER

The conquest and conversion of the Prussians was accomplished by the famous order of Teutonic
Knights. It had been founded in Palestine as a military-religious order, at the time of the
Third Crusade. [35] The decline of the crusading movement left the knights with no duties to
perform, and so they transferred their activities to the Prussian frontier, where there was
still a chance to engage in a holy war. Throughout the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries
the Teutonic Order flourished, until its grand master ruled over the entire Baltic coast from
the Vistula to the gulf of Finland. The knights later had to relinquish much of this region
to the Slavs, but they sowed there the seeds of civilization. Russia's Baltic provinces [36]
are to-day the richest and most advanced in the empire.

POLITICAL GERMANY

Germany at the close of the Middle Ages was not a united, intensely national state, such as
had been established in England, France, and Spain. It had split into hundreds of principalities,
none large, some extremely small, and all practically independent of the feeble German kings.
[37] This weakness of the central power condemned Germany to a minor part in the affairs of
Europe, as late as the nineteenth century. Yet Germany found some compensation for political
backwardness in the splendid city life which it developed during the later Middle Ages. The
German cities, together with those of Italy and other European lands, now call for our attention.

STUDIES

1. On an outline map indicate (a) William the Conqueror's French dominions and (b) additional
dominions of the Plantagenet kings in France.

2. Prepare a chart showing the leading rulers mentioned in this chapter. Arrange your material
in parallel columns with dates, one column for England, one for France, and one for the other
European countries.

3. Locate the following places: Crecy; Calais; Poitiers; Salisbury; Stirling; Edinburgh; Orleans;
and Granada.

4. What happened in 987 A.D.? in 1066 A.D.? in 1215 A.D.? in 1295 A.D.? in 1346 A.D.? in 1453
A.D.? in 1485 A.D.?

5. Distinguish between a nation, a government, and a state.

6. Are unity of race, a common language, a common religion, and geographical unity of themselves
sufficient to make a nation? May a nation arise where these bonds are lacking?

7. "The thirteenth century gave Europe the nations as we now know them." Comment on this statement.

8. Account for the rise of national feeling in France, Spain, Scotland, and Switzerland.

9. "Good government in the Middle Ages was only another name for a public- spirited and powerful
monarchy." Comment on this statement.

10. What advantages has trial by jury over the older forms of trial, such as oaths, ordeals,
and the judicial duel?

11. Explain the difference between a grand jury and a trial, or petty jury.

12. Compare the extent of territory in which Roman law now prevails with that which follows
the Common law.

13. Why was the Parliament of 1295 A.D. named the "Model Parliament"?

14. Why has England been called "the mother of parliaments"?

15. Distinguish between England and Great Britain. Between Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

16. What were the Roman names of England, Scotland, and Ireland?

17. "Islands seem dedicated by nature to freedom." How does the history of Ireland illustrate
this statement?

18. Trace on the map the main water routes in France between the Mediterranean and the Atlantic.

19. Show that Paris occupies an exceptionally good location for a capital city.

20. What French kings did most to form the French nation?

21. Why have queens never ruled in France?

22. Compare the Hundred Years' War and the Peloponnesian War as needless conflicts.

23. Compare Joan of Arc's visions with those of Mohammed.

24. "Beyond the Pyrenees begins Africa." What does this statement mean?

25. Why was Spain inconspicuous in European politics before the opening of the sixteenth century?

26. Look up in an encyclopedia the story of William Tell and prepare an oral report upon it.

27. Why was the German system of elective rulers politically less advantageous than the settled
hereditary succession which prevailed in England and France?

[2] The name comes from that of the broom plant (Latin planta genesta), a sprig of which Henry's
father used to wear in his hat. The family is also called Angevin, because Henry on his father's
side descended from the counts of Anjou in France.

[3] See page 419.

[4] Latin verum dictum, "a true statement."

[5] Latin juro, "I take an oath."

[6] See pages 475-476.

[7] See page 514.

[8] See page 461.

[9] A term which refers to all freemen in town and country below the rank of nobles.

[10] See page 418.

[11] Made up of the chief lords and bishops.

[12] The word "parliament," from French parler, "to speak," originally meant a talk or conference.
Later, the word came to be applied to the body of persons assembled for conference.

[13] See page 407 and note 1.

[14] See page 319.

[15] See page 246.

[16] See the map, page 321.

[17] In 1603 A.D. James VI of Scotland ascended the throne of England as James I. In 1707 A.D.
the two countries adopted a plan of union which gave them a common Parliament and one flag.

[18] See page 397.

[19] See page 403.

[20] From 987 A.D. to 1328 A.D. France had only fourteen kings. The average length of their
reigns was, therefore, something more than twenty- four years.

[21] See pages 461, 475.

[22] Hence the name "Salic law" applied to the rule excluding women from succession to the
French throne.

[23] See page 550.

[24] Probably so called from the black armor which he wore. It may still be seen above his
tomb in Canterbury Cathedral.

[25] In French, Jeanne d'Arc.

[26] Calais went back to the French in 1558 A.D. The Channel Islands are still English possessions.

[27] See pages 164, 169, 244, 378. The Arabs and Berbers who settled in Spain are generally
called Moors.

[28] See page 316.

[29] See page 462.

[30] The duchies of Upper and Lower Austria, Styria, Carinthia, and Carniola, and the county
of Tyrol.

[31] See the map facing page 462.

[32] From Schwyz comes the name Switzerland.

[33] The independence of the country was not formally recognized till 1648 A.D.

[34] See page 315.

[35] See page 473.

[36] Courland, Livonia, and Esthonia.

[37] See pages 319, 462. [1] The statement applies as well to medieval times as to the present
day. Nothing marks more strongly the backwardness of the early Middle Ages than the absence
of large and flourishing cities throughout western Europe. The growth of trade in the later
Middle Ages led, however, to a civic revival beginning in the eleventh century. This change
from rural to urban life was scarcely less significant for European history than the change
from the feudal to the national state.

CITIES OF ROMAN ORIGIN

A number of medieval cities stood on the sites, and even within the walls, of Roman municipalities.
Particularly in Italy, southern France, and Spain, and also in the Rhine and Danube regions,
it seems that some ancient municipia had never been entirely destroyed during the Germanic
invasions. They preserved their Roman names, their streets, aqueducts, amphitheaters, and churches,
and possibly vestiges of their Roman institutions. Among them were such important centers as
Milan, Florence, Venice, Lyons, Marseilles, Paris, Vienna, Cologne, London, and York.

ORIGIN OF THE OTHER CITIES

Many medieval cities were new foundations. Some rose to importance because of advantages of
situation. A place where a river could be forded, where two roads met, or where a good harbor
existed, would naturally become the resort of traders. Some, again, started as fortresses,
behind whose ramparts the peasants took refuge when danger threatened. A third group of cities
developed from villages on the manors. A thriving settlement was pretty sure to arise near
a monastery or castle, which offered both protection and employment to the common people.

THE CITY AND FEUDALISM

The city at first formed part of the feudal system. It grew upon the territory of a feudal
lord and naturally owed obedience to him. The citizens ranked not much higher than serfs, though
they were traders and artisans instead of farmers. They enjoyed no political rights, for their
lord collected the taxes, appointed officials, kept order, and punished offenders. In short,
the city was not free.

REVOLT OF THE CITIES

But the city from the first was the decided enemy of feudalism. [2] As its inhabitants increased
in number and wealth, they became Revolt of conscious of their strength and refused to submit
the cities to oppression. Sometimes they won their freedom by hard fighting, more often they
purchased it, perhaps from some noble who needed money to go on a crusade. In France, England,
and Spain, where the royal power was strong, the cities obtained exemption from their feudal
burdens, but did not become entirely self-governing. In Germany and Italy, on the other hand,
the weakness of the central government permitted many cities to secure complete independence.
They became true republics, like the old Greek city-states. [3]

CHARTERS

The contract which the citizens extorted from their lord was known as a charter. It specified
what taxes they should be required to pay and usually granted to them various privileges, such
as those of holding assemblies, electing magistrates, and raising militia for local defense.
The revolt of the cities gradually extended over all western Europe, so that at the end of
the fourteenth century hardly any of them lacked a charter.

CIVIC FREEDOM

The free city had no room for either slaves or serfs. All servile conditions ceased inside
its walls. The rule prevailed that anyone who had lived in a city for the term of a year and
a day could no longer be claimed by a lord as his serf. This rule found expression in the famous
saying: "Town air renders free."

RISE OF THE "THIRD ESTATE"

The freedom of the cities naturally attracted many immigrants to them. There came into existence
a middle class of city people, between the nobles and clergy on the one side and the peasants
on the other side--what the French call the bourgeoisie. [4] As we have [5] learned, the kings
of England and France soon began to summon representatives of this middle class to sit in assemblies
as the "third estate," by the side of the nobles and the clergy, who formed the first two estates.
Henceforth the middle class, the bourgeoisie, the "third estate," distinguished as it was for
wealth, intelligence, and enterprise, exerted an ever-greater influence on European affairs.

       *       *       *       *       *

193. CITY LIFE

A CITY FROM WITHOUT

The visitor approaching a medieval city through miles of open fields saw it clear in the sunlight,
unobscured by coal smoke. From without it looked like a fortress, with walls, towers, gateways,
drawbridges, and moat. Beyond the fortifications he would see, huddled together against the
sky, the spires of the churches and the cathedral, the roofs of the larger houses, and the
dark, frowning mass of the castle. The general impression would be one of wealth and strength
and beauty.

A CITY FROM WITHIN

Once within the walls the visitor would not find things so attractive. The streets were narrow,
crooked, and ill-paved, dark during the day because of the overhanging houses, and without
illumination at night. There were no open spaces or parks except a small market place. The
whole city was cramped by its walls, which shut out light, air, and view, and prevented expansion
into the neighboring country. Medieval London, for instance, covered an area of less than one
square mile. [6]

UNSANITARY CONDITIONS

A city in the Middle Ages lacked all sanitary arrangements. The only water supply came from
polluted streams and wells. There were no sewers and no sidewalks. People piled up their refuse
in the backyard or flung it into the street, to be devoured by the dogs and pigs which served
as scavengers. The holes in the pavement collected all manner of filth, and the unpaved lanes,
in wet weather, became deep pits of mud. We can understand why the townspeople wore overshoes
when they went out, and why even the saints in the pictures were represented with them on.
The living were crowded together in many-storied houses, airless and gloomy; the dead were
buried close at hand in crowded churchyards. Such unsanitary conditions must have been responsible
for much of the sickness that was prevalent. The high death rate could only be offset by a
birth rate correspondingly high, and by the constant influx of country people.

CIVIC REGULATIONS

Numerous petty regulations restricted the private life of the townspeople. The municipal authorities
sometimes decided how many guests might be invited to weddings, how much might be spent on
wedding presents, what different garments might be owned and worn by a citizen, and even the
number of trees that might be planted in his garden. Each citizen had to serve his turn as
watchman on the walls or in the streets at night. When the great bell in the belfry rang the
"curfew," [7] at eight or nine o'clock, this was the signal for every one to extinguish lights
and fires and go to bed. It was a useful precaution, since conflagrations were common enough
in the densely packed wooden houses. After curfew the streets became deserted, except for the
night watch making their rounds and the presence of occasional pedestrians carrying lanterns.
The municipal government spent little or nothing on police protection, so that street brawls,
and even robbery and murder, were not infrequent.

PUBLIC BUILDINGS

The inhabitants of the city took a just pride in their public buildings. The market place,
where traders assembled, often contained a beautiful cross and sometimes a market hall to shelter
goods from the weather. Not far away rose the city hall, [8] for the transaction of public
business and the holding of civic feasts. The hall might be crowned by a high belfry with an
alarm bell to summon citizens to mass meeting. Then there would be a number of churches and
abbeys and, if the city was the capital of a bishop's diocese, an imposing cathedral.

MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT

The small size of medieval cities--few included as many as ten thousand inhabitants--simplified
the problem of governing them. The leading merchants usually formed a council presided over
by a head magistrate, the burgomaster [9] or mayor, [10] who was assisted by aldermen. [11]
In some places the guilds chose the officials and managed civic affairs. These associations
had many functions and held a most important place in city life.

194. CIVIC INDUSTRY: THE GUILDS

FORMATION OF GUILDS

The Anglo-Saxon word "guild," which means "to pay," came to be applied to a club or society
whose members made contributions for some common purpose. This form Of association is very
old. Some of the guilds in imperial Rome had been established in the age of the kings, while
not a few of those which flourish to-day in China and India were founded before the Christian
era. Guilds existed in Continental Europe as early as the time of Charlemagne, but they did
not become prominent till after the crusades.

MERCHANT GUILDS

A guild of merchants grew up when those who bought and sold goods in any place united to protect
their own interests. The membership included many artisans, as well as professional traders,
for in medieval times a man often sold in the front room of his shop the goods which he made
in the back rooms. He was often both shopkeeper and workman in one.

COMMERCIAL MONOPOLY

The chief duty of a merchant guild was to preserve to its own members the monopoly of trade
within a town. Strangers and non-guildsmen could not buy or sell there except under the conditions
imposed by the guild. They must pay the town tolls, confine their dealings to guildsmen, and
as a rule sell only at wholesale. They were forbidden to purchase wares which the townspeople
wanted for themselves or to set up shops for retail trade. They enjoyed more freedom at fairs,
which were intended to attract outsiders.

CRAFT GUILDS

After a time the traders and artisans engaged in a particular occupation began to form an association
of their own. Thus arose the craft guilds, composed of weavers, shoemakers, bakers, tailors,
carpenters, and so on, until almost every form of industry had its separate organization. The
names of the various occupations came to be used as the surnames of those engaged in them,
so that to-day we have such common family names as Smith, Cooper, Fuller, Potter, Chandler,
and many others. The number of craft guilds in an important city might be very large. London
and Paris at one time each had more than one hundred, and Cologne in Germany had as many as
eighty. The members of a particular guild usually lived in the same street or quarter of the
city, not only for companionship but also for better supervision of their labor. [12]

INDUSTRIAL MONOPOLY

Just as the merchant guild regulated town trade, so the craft guilds had charge of town industry.
No one could engage in any craft without becoming a member of the guild which controlled it
and submitting to the guild regulations. A man's hours of labor and the prices at which he
sold his goods were fixed for him by the guild. He might not work elsewhere than in his shop,
because of the difficulty of supervising him, nor might he work by artificial light, lest he
turn out badly finished goods. Everything made by him was carefully inspected to see if it
contained shoddy materials or showed poor workmanship. Failure to meet the test meant a heavy
fine or perhaps expulsion from the guild. Thus the industrial monopoly possessed by the craft
guild gave some protection to both producer and consumer.

ORGANIZATION OF CRAFT GUILDS

Full membership in a guild was reached only by degrees. A boy started as an apprentice, that
is, a learner. He paid a sum of money to his master and agreed to serve him for a fixed period,
usually seven years. The master, in turn, promised to provide the apprentice with food, lodging,
and clothing, and to teach him all the secrets of the craft. At the end of the seven years
the apprentice had to pass an examination by the guild. If he was found fit, he then became
a journeyman and worked for daily wages. As soon as he had saved enough money, he might set
up as a master in his own shop. A master was at once workman and employer, laborer and capitalist.

ACTIVITIES OF CRAFT GUILDS

Like the old Roman guilds, those of the Middle Ages had their charitable and religious aspects.
Each guild raised large benefit funds for the relief of members or their widows and orphans.
Each guild had its private altar in the cathedral, or often its own chapel, where masses were
said for the repose of the souls of deceased members, and where on the day of its patron saint
religious services were held. The guild was also a social organization, with frequent meetings
for a feast in its hall or in some inn. The guilds in some cities entertained the people with
an annual play or procession. [13] It is clear that the members of a medieval craft guild had
common interests and shared a common life.

DISSOLUTION OF CRAFT GUILDS
 As the craft guilds prospered and increased in wealth, they tended to
become exclusive organizations. Membership fees were raised so high that
few could afford to pay them, while the number of apprentices that a
master might take was strictly limited. It also became increasingly
difficult for journeymen to rise to the station of masters; they often
remained wage-earners for life. The mass of workmen could no longer
participate in the benefits of the guild system. In the eighteenth century
most of the guilds lost their monopoly of industry, and in the nineteenth
century they gave way to trade unions.

195. TRADE AND COMMERCE

MARKETS

Nearly every town of any consequence had a weekly or semiweekly market, which was held in the
market place or in the churchyard. Marketing often occurred on Sunday, in spite of many laws
against this desecration of the day. Outsiders who brought cattle and farm produce for sale
in the market were required to pay tolls, either to the town authorities or sometimes to a
neighboring nobleman. These market dues still survive in the "octroi" collected at the gates
of some European cities.

"JUST PRICE"

People in the Middle Ages did not believe in unrestricted competition. It was thought wrong
for anyone to purchase goods outside of the regular market ("forestalling") or to purchase
them in larger quantities than necessary ("engrossing"). A man ought not to charge for a thing
more than it was worth, or to buy a thing cheap and sell it dear. The idea prevailed that goods
should be sold at their "just price" which was not determined by supply and demand but by an
estimate of the cost of the materials and the labor that went into their manufacture. Laws
were often passed fixing this "just price," but it was as difficult then as now to prevent
the "cornering of the market" by shrewd and unscrupulous traders.

FAIRS

Besides markets at frequent intervals, many towns held fairs once or twice a year. The fairs
often lasted for a month or more. They were especially necessary in medieval Europe, because
merchants did not keep large quantities or many kinds of goods on their shelves, nor could
intending purchasers afford to travel far in search of what they wanted. The more important
English fairs included those at Stourbridge near Cambridge, Winchester, St. Ives, and Boston.
On the Continent fairs were numerous and in some places, such as Leipzig in Germany and Nijni-Novgorod
in Russia, they are still kept up.

FAIRS AND COMMERCE

A fair gave opportunity for the sale of commodities brought from the most distant regions.
Stourbridge Fair, for instance, attracted Venetians and Genoese with silk, pepper, and spices
of the East, Flemings with fine cloths and linens, Spaniards with iron and wine, Norwegians
with tar and pitch from their forests, and Baltic merchants with furs, amber, and salted fish.
The fairs, by fostering commerce, helped to make the various European peoples better acquainted
with one another.

DECLINE OF COMMERCE IN THE MIDDLE AGES

Commerce in western Europe had almost disappeared as a result of the Germanic invasions and
the establishment of feudalism. What little commercial intercourse there was encountered many
obstacles. A merchant who went by land from country to country might expect to find bad roads,
few bridges, and poor inns. Goods were transported on pack-horses instead of in wagons. Highway
robbery was so common that travelers always carried arms and often united in bands for better
protection. The feudal lords, often themselves not much more than highwaymen, demanded tolls
at every bridge and ford and on every road. If the merchant proceeded by water, he must face,
in addition to the ordinary hazards of wind and wave, the danger from the ill-lighted coasts
and from attacks by pirates. No wonder commerce languished in the early Middle Ages and for
a long time lay chiefly in the hands of Byzantines [14] and Arabs. [15]

COMMERCIAL REVIVAL AFTER THE CRUSADES

Even during the dark centuries that followed the end of the Roman Empire, some trade with the
Orient had been carried on by the cities of Italy and southern France. The crusades, which
brought East and West face to face, greatly increased this trade. The Mediterranean lands first
felt the stimulating effects of intercourse with the Orient, but before long the commercial
revival extended to the rest of Europe.

ASIATIC TRADE ROUTES

Before the discovery of the Cape of Good Hope the spices, drugs, incense, carpets, tapestries,
porcelains, and gems of India, China, and the East Indies reached the West by three main routes.
All had been used in ancient times. [16] The central and most important route led up the Persian
Gulf and Tigris River to Bagdad, from which city goods went by caravan to Antioch or Damascus.
The southern route reached Cairo and Alexandria by way of the Red Sea and the Nile. By taking
advantage of the monsoons, a merchant ship could make the voyage from India to Egypt in about
three months. The northern route, entirely overland, led to ports on the Black Sea and thence
to Constantinople. It traversed high mountain passes and long stretches of desert, and could
profitably be used only for the transport of valuable articles small in bulk. The conquests
of the Ottoman Turks greatly interfered with the use of this route by Christians after the
middle of the fifteenth century.

EUROPEAN TRADE ROUTES

Oriental goods, upon reaching the Mediterranean, could be transported by water to northern
Europe. Every year the Venetians sent a fleet loaded with eastern products to Bruges in Flanders,
a city which was the most important depot of trade with Germany, England, and Scandinavia.
Bruges also formed the terminus of the main overland route leading from Venice over the Alps
and down the Rhine. But as the map indicates, many other commercial highways linked the Mediterranean
with the North Sea and the Baltic.

COMMERCIAL RELATIONS

It is important to note that until late in the Middle Ages trade existed, not between nations,
but between cities. A merchant of London was almost as much a foreigner in any other English
city as he would have been in Bruges, Paris, or Cologne. Consequently, each city needed to
make commercial treaties with its neighbors, stipulating what were the privileges and obligations
of its merchants, wherever they went. It was not until the kings grew strong in western Europe
that merchants could rely on the central government, rather than on local authorities, for
protection.

196. MONEY AND BANKING

SMALL SCALE OF BUSINESS ENTERPRISE

We have seen that business in the Middle Ages was chiefly of a retail character and was conducted
in markets and fairs. The artisan who manufactured the goods he sold and the peddler who carried
his goods about from place to place were the leading types of medieval traders. Little wholesale
business existed, and the merchant prince who owned warehouses and large stocks of goods was
an exceptional figure.

LACK OF MONEY

One reason for the small scale of business enterprise is found in the inadequate supply of
money. From the beginning of the Christian era to the twelfth century there seems to have been
a steady decrease in the amount of specie in circulation, partly because so much moved to the
Orient in payment for luxuries, and partly because the few mines in western Europe went out
of use during the period of the invasions. The scarcity of money, as has been shown, [17] helped
directly to build up the feudal system, since salaries, wages, and rents could be paid only
in personal services or in produce. The money supply increased during the latter part of the
Middle Ages, but it did not become sufficient for the needs of business till the discovery
of the New World enabled the Spaniards to tap the wealth of the silver mines in Mexico and
Peru. [18]

FAULTS OF MEDIEVAL CURRENCY

Medieval currency was not only small in amount but also faulty in character. Many great nobles
enjoyed the privilege of keeping a mint and issuing coins. Since this feudal money passed at
its full value only in the locality where it was minted, a merchant had to be constantly changing
his money, as he went from one fief to another, and always at a loss. Kings and nobles for
their own profit would often debase the currency by putting silver into the gold coins and
copper into the silver coins. Every debasement, as it left the coins with less pure metal,
lowered their purchasing power and so raised prices unexpectedly. Even in countries like England,
where debasement was exceptional, much counterfeit money circulated, to the constant impediment
of trade.

"USURY" LAWS

The prejudice against "usury," as any lending of money at interest was called, made another
hindrance to business enterprise. It seemed wrong for a person to receive interest, since he
lost nothing by the loan of his money. Numerous Church laws condemned the receipt of interest
as unchristian. If, however, the lender could show that he had suffered any loss, or had been
prevented from making any gain, through not having his money, he might charge something for
its use. In time people began to distinguish between interest moderate in amount and an excessive
charge for the use of money. The latter alone was henceforth prohibited as usurious. Most modern
states still have usury laws which fix the legal rate of interest.

THE JEWS AS MONEY LENDERS

The business of money lending, denied to Christians, fell into the hands of the Jews. In nearly
all European countries popular prejudice forbade the Jews to engage in agriculture, while the
guild regulations barred them from industry. They turned to trade and finance for a livelihood
and became the chief capitalists of medieval times. But the law gave the Jews no protection,
and kings and nobles constantly extorted large sums from them. The persecutions of the Jews
date from the era of the crusades, when it was as easy to excite fanatical hatred against them
as against the Moslems. Edward I drove the Jews from England and Ferdinand and Isabella expelled
them from Spain. They are still excluded from the Spanish peninsula, and in Russia and Austria
they are not granted all the privileges which Christians enjoy.

ITALIAN BANKING

The Jews were least persecuted in the commercial cities of northern Italy. Florence, Genoa,
and Venice in the thirteenth century were the money centers of Europe. The banking companies
in these cities received deposits and then loaned the money to foreign governments and great
nobles. It was the Florentine bankers, for instance, who provided the English king, Edward
III, with the funds to carry on his wars against France. The Italian banking houses had branches
in the principal cities of Europe. [19] It became possible, therefore, to introduce the use
of bills of exchange as a means of balancing debts between countries, without the necessity
of sending the actual money. This system of international credit was doubly important at a
time when so many risks attended the transportation of the precious metals. Another Florentine
invention was bookkeeping by double-entry. [20]

197. ITALIAN CITIES

THE CITY REPUBLICS

The cities of northern Italy owed their prosperity, as we have learned, to the commerce with
the Orient. It was this which gave them the means and the strength to keep up a long struggle
for freedom against the German emperors.[21] The end of the struggle, at the middle of the
thirteenth century, saw all North Italy divided into the dominions of various independent cities.
Among them were Milan, Pisa, Florence, Genoa, and Venice.

MILAN

Milan, a city of Roman origin, lay in the fertile valley of the Po, at a point where the trade
routes through several Alpine passes converged. Milan early rose to importance, and it still
remains the commercial metropolis of Italy. Manufacturing also flourished there. Milanese armor
was once celebrated throughout Europe. The city is rich in works of art, the best known being
the cathedral, which, after St. Peter's at Rome and the cathedral of Seville, is the largest
church in Europe. Though the Milanese were able to throw off the imperial authority, their
government fell into the hands of the local nobles, who ruled as despots. Almost all the Italian
cities, except Venice, lost their freedom in this manner.

PISA

Pisa, like Milan, was an old Roman city which profited by the disorders of the barbarian invasions
to assert its independence. The situation of Pisa on the Arno River, seven miles from the sea,
made it a maritime state, and the Pisan navy gained distinction in warfare against the Moslems
in the Mediterranean. The Pisans joined in the First Crusade and showed their valor at the
capture of Jerusalem. They profited greatly by the crusading movement and soon possessed banks,
warehouses, and trading privileges in every eastern port. But Pisa had bitter rivals in Florence
and Genoa, and the conflicts with these two cities finally brought about the destruction of
its power.

FLORENCE

Florence, Pisa's neighbor on the Arno, was renowned for manufactures. The fine wool, silk cloths,
golden brocades, jewelry, and metal work of Florence were imported into all European countries.
The craft guilds were very strong there, and even the neighboring nobles, who wished to become
citizens, had first to enroll themselves in some guild. It was from banking, however, that
Florence gained most wealth. In the fifteenth century the city contained eighty great banking
houses, in addition to numerous branches outside of Italy. With their commercial spirit the
Florentines combined a remarkable taste for art and literature. Their city, whose population
never exceeded seventy thousand, gave birth to some of the most illustrious poets, prose writers,
architects, sculptors, and painters of medieval times. It was the Athens of Italy. [22]

GENOA

Genoa, located on the gulf of the same name, possessed a safe and spacious harbor. During the
era of the crusades the city carried on a flourishing trade in both the Mediterranean and the
Atlantic. After the fall of the Latin Empire of Constantinople [23] the Genoese almost monopolized
Oriental commerce along the Black Sea route. The closing of this route by the Ottoman Turks
was a heavy blow to their prosperity, which also suffered from the active competition of Venice.

SITUATION OF VENICE

Almost alone among Italian cities Venice was not of Roman origin. Its beginning is traced back
to the period of barbarian inroads, when fugitives from the mainland sought a new home on the
islands at the head of the Adriatic. [24] These islands, which lie about five miles from the
coast, are protected from the outer sea by a long sand bar. They are little more than mud-banks,
barely rising above the shallow water of the lagoons. The oozy soil afforded no support for
buildings, except when strengthened by piles; there was scarcely any land fit for farming or
cattle-raising; and the only drinking water had to be stored from the rainfall. Yet on this
unpromising site arose one of the most splendid of European cities.

VENETIAN COMMERCE

The early inhabitants of Venice got their living from the sale of sea salt and fish, two commodities
for which a constant demand existed in the Middle Ages. Large quantities of salt were needed
for preserving meat in the winter months, while fish was eaten by all Christians on the numerous
fast days and in Lent. The Venetians exchanged these commodities for the productions of the
mainland and so built up a thriving trade. From fishermen they became merchants, with commercial
relations which gradually extended to the Orient. The crusades vastly increased the wealth
of Venice, for she provided the ships in which troops and supplies went to the Holy Land and
she secured the largest share of the new eastern trade. Venice became the great emporium of
the Mediterranean. As a commercial center the city was the successor of ancient Tyre, Carthage,
Athens, and Alexandria.

VENETIAN POSSESSIONS

Venice also used the crusading movement for her political advantage. The capture of Constantinople
in the Fourth Crusade extended Venetian control over the Peloponnesus, [25] Crete, Rhodes,
Cyprus, and many smaller islands in the eastern Mediterranean. Even before this time Venice
had begun to gain possessions upon the Italian mainland and along the Adriatic coast. At the
height of her power about 1400 A.D. she ruled a real empire. [26]

VENETIAN SEA POWER

The commerce and possessions of Venice made it necessary for her to maintain a powerful fleet.
She is said to have had at one time over three thousand merchant vessels, besides forty-five
war galleys. Her ships went out in squadrons, with men-of-war acting as a convoy against pirates.
One fleet traded with the ports of western Europe, another proceeded to the Black Sea, while
others visited Syria and Egypt to meet the caravans from the Far East. Venetian sea power humbled
Genoa and for a long time held the Mediterranean against the Ottoman Turks.

THE "QUEEN OF THE ADRIATIC"

The greatness of Venice was celebrated by the annual ceremony of "the wedding of the sea."
The doge, (that is, "duke.") or chief magistrate, standing in the bows of the state barge,
cast a ring of gold into the Adriatic with the proud words, "We have wedded thee, O sea, in
token of our rightful and perpetual dominion."

VENICE DESCRIBED

The visitor to modern Venice can still gain a good impression of what the city must have looked
like in the fourteenth century, when ships of every nation crowded its quays and strangers
of every country thronged its squares or sped in light gondolas over the canals which take
the place of streets. The main highway is still the Grand Canal, nearly two miles long and
lined with palaces and churches. The Grand Canal leads to St. Mark's Cathedral, brilliant with
mosaic pictures, the Campanile, or bell tower, and the Doge's Palace. The "Bridge of Sighs"
connects the ducal palace with the state prisons. The Rialto in the business heart of Venice
is another famous bridge. But these are only a few of the historic and beautiful buildings
of the island city.

198. GERMAN CITIES: THE HANSEATIC LEAGUE

CITIES OF SOUTHERN AND CENTRAL GERMANY

The important trade routes from Venice and Genoa through the Alpine passes into the valleys
of the Rhine and Danube were responsible for the prosperity of many fine cities in southern
and central Germany. Among them were Augsburg, which rivaled Florence as a financial center,
Nuremberg, famous for artistic metal work, Ulm, Strassburg, and Cologne. The feeble rule of
the German kings compelled the cities to form several confederacies for the purpose of resisting
the extortionate tolls and downright robberies of feudal lords.

CITIES OF NORTHERN GERMANY

It was the Baltic commerce which brought the cities of northern Germany into a firm union.
From the Baltic region came large quantities of dried and salted fish, especially herring,
wax candles for church services, skins, tallow, and lumber. Furs were also in great demand.
Every one wore them during the winter, on account of the poorly heated houses. The German cities
which shared in this commerce early formed the celebrated Hanseatic [27] League for protection
against pirates and feudal lords.

MEMBERSHIP OF THE HANSEATIC LEAGUE

The league seems to have begun with an alliance of Hamburg and Luebeck to safeguard the traffic
on the Elbe. The growth of the league was rapid. At the period of its greatest power, about
1400 A.D., there were upwards of eighty Hanseatic cities along the Baltic coast and in the
inland districts of northern Germany.

HANSEATIC "FACTORIES"

The commercial importance of the league extended far beyond the borders of Germany. Its trading
posts, or "factories," at Bergen in Norway and Novgorod in Russia controlled the export trade
of those two countries. Similar establishments existed at London, on the Thames just above
London Bridge, and at Bruges in Flanders. Each factory served as a fortress where merchants
could be safe from attack, as a storehouse for goods, and as a general market.

INFLUENCE OF THE HANSEATIC LEAGUE

The Hanseatic League ruled over the Baltic Sea very much as Venice ruled over the Adriatic.
In spite of its monopolistic tendencies, so opposed to the spirit of free intercourse between
nations, the league did much useful work by suppressing piracy and by encouraging the art of
navigation. Modern Germans look back to it as proof that their country can play a great part
on the seas. The Hanseatic merchants were also pioneers in the half-barbarous lands of northern
and eastern Europe, where they founded towns, fostered industry, and introduced comforts and
luxuries previously unknown. Such services in advancing civilization were comparable to those
performed by the Teutonic Knights. [28]

DECLINE OF THE HANSEATIC LEAGUE

After several centuries of usefulness the league lost its monopoly of the Baltic trade and
began to decline. Moreover the Baltic, like the Mediterranean, sank to minor importance as
a commercial center, after the Portuguese had discovered the sea route to India and the Spaniards
had opened up the New World. [29] City after city gradually withdrew from the league, till
only Hamburg, Luebeck, and Bremen remained. They are still called free and independent cities,
though now they form a part of the German Empire.

199. THE CITIES OF FLANDERS

COUNTY OF FLANDERS

In the Middle Ages the Netherlands, or "Low Countries," now divided between Holland and Belgium,
consisted of a number of feudal states, nominally under the control of German and French kings,
but really quite independent. Among them was the county of Flanders. It included the coast
region from Calais to the mouth of the Scheldt, as well as a considerable district in what
is now northwestern France. The inhabitants of Flanders were partly of Teutonic extraction
(the Flemings) and partly akin to the French (the Walloons).

FLANDERS AS A COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CENTER

Flanders enjoyed a good situation for commerce. The country formed a convenient stopping place
for merchants who went by sea between the Mediterranean and the Baltic, while important land
routes led thither from all parts of western Europe. Flanders was also an industrial center.
Its middle classes early discovered the fact that by devotion to manufacturing even a small
and sterile region may become rich and populous.

FLEMISH WOOL TRADE

The leading industry of Flanders was weaving. England in the Middle Ages raised great flocks
of sheep, but lacking skilled workmen to manufacture the wool into fine cloth, sent it across
the Channel to Flanders. A medieval writer declared that the whole world was clothed in English
wool manufactured by the Flemings. The taxes that were laid on the export of wool helped to
pay the expenses of English kings in their wars with the Welsh, the Scotch, and the Irish.
The wool trade also made Flanders the ally of England in the Hundred Years' War, thus beginning
that historic friendship between the two countries which still endures.

BRUGES, GHENT AND YPRES

Among the thriving communities of Flanders three held an exceptional position. Bruges was the
mart where the trade of southern Europe, in the hands of the Venetians, and the trade of northern
Europe, in the hands of the Hanseatic merchants, came together. Ghent, with forty thousand
workshops, and Ypres, which counted two hundred thousand workmen within its walls and suburbs,
were scarcely less prosperous. When these cities declined in wealth, Antwerp became the commercial
metropolis of the Netherlands.

FLANDERS AND FRANCE

During the fourteenth century Flanders was annexed by France. The Flemish cities resisted bravely,
and on more than one occasion their citizen levies, who could handle sword and ax, as well
as the loom, defeated the French armies, thus demonstrating again that foot soldiers were a
match for mailed cavalry. Had the cities been able to form a lasting league, they might have
established an independent Flanders, but the bitter rivalry of Ghent and Bruges led to foreign
domination, lasting into the nineteenth century. [30]

THE CITIES AND CIVILIZATION

The great cities of Flanders, Germany, and Italy, not to speak of those in France, Spain, and
England, were much more than centers of trade, industry, and finance. Within their walls learning
and art flourished to an extent which had never been possible in earlier times, when rural
life prevailed throughout western Europe. We shall now see what the cities of the Middle Ages
contributed to civilization.

STUDIES

1. Indicate on the map some great commercial cities of the Middle Ages as follows: four in
Italy; three in the Netherlands; and six in Germany.

2. Why does an American city have a charter? Where is it obtained? What privileges does it confer?

3. Who comprised the "third estate" in the Middle Ages? What class corresponds to it at the
present time?

4. Why has the medieval city been called the "birthplace of modern democracy"?

5. Compare the merchant guild with the modern chamber of commerce, and craft guilds with modern
trade unions.

6. Look up the origin of the words "apprentice," "journeyman," and "master."

7. Why was there no antagonism between labor and capital under the guild system?

8. Compare the medieval abhorrence of "engrossing" with the modern idea that "combinations
in restraint of trade" are wrong.

9. Why were fairs a necessity in the Middle Ages? Why are they not so useful now? Where are
they still found?

10. Compare a medieval fair with a modern exposition.

11. What would be the effect on trade within an American state if tolls were levied on the
border of every county?

12. What is meant by a "robber baron"?

13. How did the names "damask" linen, "chinaware," "japanned" ware, and "cashmere" shawls originate?

14. Why was the purchasing power of money much greater in the Middle Ages than it is now?

15. Why are modern coins always made perfectly round and with "milled" edges?

16. Are modern coins "debased" to any considerable extent? What is the use of alloys?

17. Why was the money-changer so necessary a figure in medieval business?

18. How is it easy to evade laws forbidding usury?

19. Look up in an encyclopedia the legend of the "Wandering Jew." How does it illustrate the
medieval attitude toward Jews?

20. Write out the English equivalents of the Italian words mentioned in footnote 20.

21. Compare the Italian despots with the Greek tyrants.

22. Show that Venice in medieval times was the seaport nearest the heart of commercial Europe.

23. Compare the Venetian and Athenian sea-empires in respect to (a) extent, (b) duration, and
(c) commercial policy.

24. Why was Venice called the "bride of the sea"?

FOOTNOTES

[1] The word "city" comes through the French from the Latin civilitas, meaning citizenship,
state. The word "town" (from Anglo-Saxon tun), which is now often used as a synonym of city,
originally meant a village (French ville, Latin villa).

[2] See page 437.

[3] See page 81.

[4] From French bourg, "town."

[5] See pages 506, 515.

[6] The visitor to Chester in England or Rothenburg in Germany finds the old ramparts still
standing and gains an excellent idea of the cramped quarters of a medieval city. Nuremburg
in southern Germany is another city which has preserved its medieval monuments.

[7] French couvre feu, "cover fire."

[8] In French hotel de ville; in German Rathhaus.

[9] German buergermeister, from burg, "castle."

[10] French maire, from Latin major, "greater."

[11] Anglo-Saxon ealdorman (eald means "old").

[12] A map of London still shows such names as Shoe Lane, Distaff Lane, Cornhill, and many
other similar designations of streets.

[13] The civic procession in London on Lord Mayor's Day is the last survival in England of
these yearly shows.

[14] See page 336.

[15] See page 382.

[16] See pages 47-48.

[17] See page 417.

[18] See page 640.

[19] Lombard Street in London, the financial center of England, received its name from the
Italian bankers who established themselves in this part of the city.

[20] Among the Italian words having to do with commerce and banking which have come into general
use are conto, disconto, risico, netto, deposito, folio, and bilanza.

[21] See page 460.

[22] See page 590.

[23] See page 478.

[24] See page 248.

[25] Known in the Middle Ages as the Morea.

[26] For the Venetian possessions in 1453 A.D. see the map, page 494.

[27] From the old German hansa, a "confederacy."

[28] See page 526.

[29] See page 640.

[30] In 1831 A.D. the two provinces of East Flanders and West Flanders became part of the modern
kingdom of Belgium.

CHAPTER XXIV

MEDIEVAL CIVILIZATION [1]

200. FORMATION OF NATIONAL LANGUAGES

THE 12TH AND 13TH CENTURIES

The twelfth and thirteenth centuries, which in western Europe saw the rise of national states
out of the chaos of feudalism and the development of cities, may be regarded as the central
period of the Middle Ages. During this time there flourished a civilization which is properly
described as "medieval," to distinguish it from classical civilization on the one side and
modern civilization on the other side. The various European languages then began to assume
something like their present form. A large body of literature, in both poetry and prose, appeared.
Architecture revived, and flowered in majestic cathedrals. Education also revived, especially
in the universities with their thousands of students. These and other aspects of medieval life
will now engage our attention.

LATIN AS AN INTERNATIONAL LANGUAGE

Throughout the Middle Ages Latin continued to be an international language. The Roman Church
used it for papal bulls and other documents. Prayers were recited, hymns were sung, and sometimes
sermons were preached in Latin. It was also the language of men of culture everywhere in western
Christendom. University professors lectured in Latin, students spoke Latin, lawyers addressed
judges in Latin, and the merchants in different countries wrote Latin letters to one another.
All learned books were composed in Latin until the close of the sixteenth century. This practice
has not yet been entirely abandoned by European scholars.

THE ROMANCE LANGUAGES

Each European country during the Middle Ages had also its own national tongue. The so-called
Romance languages, [2] including modern French, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, and Rumanian,
were derived from the Latin spoken by the Romanized inhabitants of the lands now known as France,
Italy, Spain, Portugal, and Rumania. Their colloquial Latin naturally lacked the elegance of
the literary Latin used by Caesar, Cicero, Vergil, and other classical authors. The difference
between the written and spoken forms of the language became more marked from the fifth century
onward, in consequence of the barbarian invasions, which brought about the decline of learning.
Gradually in each country new and vigorous tongues arose, related to, yet different from, the
old classical Latin in pronunciation, grammar, and vocabulary.

FRENCH

The indebtedness of the Romance languages to Latin is well illustrated by the case of French.
It contains less than a thousand words introduced by the German invaders of Gaul. Even fewer
in number are the words of Celtic origin. Nearly all the rest are derived from Latin.

DEVELOPMENT OF FRENCH

The popular Latin of the Gallo-Romans gave rise to two quite independent languages in medieval
France. The first was used in the southern part of the country; it was called Provencal (from
Provence). The second was spoken in the north, particularly in the region about Paris. The
unification of the French kingdom under Hugh Capet and his successors gradually extended the
speech of northern France over the entire country. Even to-day, however, one may hear in the
south of France the soft and harmonious Provencal.

THE TEUTONIC LANGUAGES

The barbarians who poured from the wilds of central Europe into the Roman world brought their
languages with them. But the speech of the Goths, Vandals, Burgundians, and Lombards disappeared,
while that of the Franks in Gaul, after their conversion to Christianity, gradually gave way
to the popular Latin of their subjects. The Teutonic peoples who remained outside what had
been the limits of the Roman world continued to use their native tongues during the Middle
Ages. From them have come modern German, Dutch, Flemish, [3] and the various Scandinavian languages
(Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, and Icelandic [4]). In their earliest known forms all these languages
show unmistakable traces of a common origin.

ANGLO-SAXON

Britain was the only Roman province in the west of Europe where a Teutonic language took root
and maintained itself. Here the rough, guttural speech of the Anglo-Saxons so completely drove
out the popular Latin that only six words were left behind by the Romans, when they abandoned
the island early in the fifth century. More Celtic words remained, words like cradle, crock,
mop, and pillow, which were names of household objects, and the names of rivers, mountains,
and lakes, which were not easily changed by the invaders. [5] But with such slight exceptions
Anglo-Saxon was thoroughly Teutonic in vocabulary, as well as in grammar.

CHANGES IN ANGLO-SAXON

In course of time Anglo-Saxon underwent various changes. Christian missionaries, from the seventh
century onward, introduced many new Latin terms for church offices, services, and observances.
The Danes, besides contributing some place-names, gave us that most useful word are, and also
the habit of using to before an infinitive. The coming of the Normans deeply affected Anglo-Saxon.
Norman-French influence helped to make the language simpler, by ridding it of the cumbersome
declensions and conjugations which it had in common with all Teutonic tongues. Many new Norman-French
words also crept in, as the hostility of the English people toward their conquerors disappeared.

DEVELOPMENT OF ENGLISH

By the middle of the thirteenth century Anglo-Saxon, or English, as it may now be called, had
taken on a somewhat familiar appearance, as in these opening words of the Lord's Prayer: "Fadir
ur, that es in heven, Halud thi nam to nevene, Thou do as thi rich rike, Thi will on erd be
wrought, eek as it is wrought in heven ay." In the poems of Geoffrey Chaucer (about 1340-1400
A.D.), especially in his Canterbury Tales, English wears quite a modern aspect, though the
reader is often troubled by the old spelling and by certain words not now in use. The changes
in the grammar of English have been so extremely small since 1485 A..D.--the beginning of the
reign of Henry VII [6]--that any Englishman of ordinary education can read without difficulty
a book written more than four hundred years ago.

ENGLISH AS A WORLD-LANGUAGE

What in medieval times was the speech of a few millions of Englishmen on a single small island
is now spoken by at least one hundred and fifty millions of people all over the world. English
is well fitted for the role of a universal language, because of its absence of inflections
and its simple sentence-order. The great number of one-syllabled words in the language also
makes for ease in understanding it. Furthermore, English has been, and still is, extremely
hospitable to new words, so that its vocabulary has grown very fast by the adoption of terms
from Latin, French, and other languages. These have immensely increased the expressiveness
of English, while giving it a position midway between the very different Romance and Teutonic
languages.

201. DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONAL LITERATURES

LATIN HYMNS

Medieval literature, though inferior in quality to that of Greece and Rome, nevertheless includes
many notable productions. In the twelfth and the thirteenth centuries Latin hymns reached their
perfection. The sublime Dies Irae ("Day of Wrath") presents a picture of the final judgment
of the wicked. The pathetic Stabat Mater, which describes the sorrows of Mary at the foot of
the Cross, has been often translated and set to music. These two works were written by a companion
and biographer of St. Francis of Assisi. St. Bernard's Jesu Dulcis Memoria ("Jesus, the Very
Thought of Thee") forms part of a beautiful hymn nearly two hundred lines in length. Part of
another hymn, composed by a monk of Cluny, has been rendered into English as "Jerusalem the
Golden." Latin hymns made use of rhyme, then something of a novelty, and thus helped to popularize
this poetic device.

LATIN STUDENTS' SONGS

Very unlike the hymns in character were the Latin songs composed by students who went from
one university to another in search of knowledge and adventure. Far from home, careless and
pleasure-seeking, light of purse and light of heart the wandering scholars of the Middle Ages
frequented taverns, as well as lecture rooms, and knew the wine-bowl even better than books.
Their songs of love, of dancing, drinking, and gaming, reflect the jovial side of medieval life.

SONGS OF THE TROUBADOURS

Still another glimpse of gay society is afforded by the songs of the troubadours. These professional
poets flourished in the south of France, but many of them traveled from court to court in other
countries. Their verses, composed in the Provencal language, were always sung to the accompaniment
of some musical instrument, generally the lute. Romantic love and deeds of chivalry were the
two themes which most inspired the troubadours. They, too, took up the use of rhyme, using
it so skillfully as to become the teachers of Europe in lyric poetry.

THE FRENCH EPIC

If southern France was the native home of the lyric, northern France gave birth to epic or
narrative verse. Here arose many poems, describing the exploits of mythical heroes or historic
kings. For a long time the poems remained unwritten and were recited by minstrels, who did
not hesitate to modify and enlarge them at will. It was not until late in the eleventh century
that any epics were written down. They enjoyed high esteem in aristocratic circles and penetrated
all countries where feudalism prevailed.

THE CHARLEMAGNE LEGEND

Many of the French epics centered about the commanding personality of Charlemagne. After his
death he became a figure of legend. He was said to have reigned one hundred and twenty-five
years, to have made a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, and to have risen from the dead to lead the
First Crusade. Angels inspired his actions. His sword contained the point of the lance which
pierced the Savior's side. His standard was the banner of St. Peter. Though history shows that
Charlemagne had little contact with the Moslems, in the popular mind he stood forth as the
great champion of Christianity against Islam.

SONG OF ROLAND

The oldest, and at the same time the finest, epic connected with Charlemagne is the Song of
Roland. [7] The poem centers around Roland, one of the twelve peers of France. When leading
the rearguard of Charlemagne's army out of Spain, Roland is suddenly attacked by the treacherous
Moors. He slays the enemy in heaps with his good sword, Durendal, and only after nearly all
the Franks have perished sounds his magic horn to summon aid. Charlemagne, fifteen leagues
distant, hears its notes and returns quickly. But before help arrives, Roland has fallen. He
dies on the field of battle, with his face to the foe, and a prayer on his lips that "sweet
France" may never be dishonored. This stirring poem appealed strongly to the martial Normans.
A medieval chronicler relates that just before the battle of Hastings a Norman minstrel rode
out between the lines, tossing his sword in air and catching it again, as he chanted the song
"of Roland and of Charlemagne, of Oliver and many a brave vassal who lost his life at Roncesvalles."

THE ARTHURIAN ROMANCES

King Arthur and the Knights of the Round Table were also important figures in medieval legend.
Arthur was said to have reigned in Britain early in the sixth century and to have fought against
the Anglo-Saxons. Whether he ever lived or not we do not know. In the Arthurian romances this
Celtic king stands forth as the model knight, the ideal of noble chivalry. The Norman conquerors
of England carried the romances to France, and here, where feudalism was so deeply rooted,
they found a hearty welcome. Sir Thomas Malory's Morte d' Arthur, one of the first books to
be printed in England, contains many of the narratives from which Tennyson, in his Idylls of
the King, and other modern poets have drawn their inspiration.

THE NIBELINGENLIED

The greatest epic composed in Germany during the Middle Ages is the Nibelungenlied. The poem
begins in Burgundy, where three kings hold court at Worms, on the Rhine. Thither comes the
hero, Siegfried, ruler of the Netherlands. He had slain the mysterious Nibelungs and seized
their treasure, together with the magic cloud-cloak which rendered its wearer invisible to
human eyes. He had also killed a dragon and by bathing in its blood had become invulnerable,
except in one place where a linden leaf touched his body. Siegfried marries Kriemhild, a beautiful
Burgundian princess, and with her lives most happily. But a curse attached to the Nibelung
treasure, and Siegfried's enemy, the "grim Hagen," treacherously slays him by a spear thrust
in the one spot where he could be hurt. Many years afterwards Kriemhild marries Attila, king
of the Huns, on condition that he help her to vengeance. Hagen and his Burgundians are invited
to Hunland, where Kriemhild causes them all to be put to death. The name of the poet who compiled
and probably wrote much of the Nibelungenlied remains unknown, but his work has a place among
the classics of German literature.

REYNARD THE FOX

No account of medieval literature ought to omit a reference to Reynard the Fox. This is a long
poem, first written in Latin, and then turned into the chief languages of Europe. The characters
are animals: Reynard, cunning and audacious, who outwits all his foes; Chanticleer the cock;
Bruin the Bear; Isengrim the Wolf; and many others. But they are animals in name only. We see
them worship like Christians, go to Mass, ride on horseback, debate in councils, and amuse
themselves with hawking and hunting. Satire often creeps in, as when the villainous Fox confesses
his sins to the Badger or vows that he will go to the Holy Land on a pilgrimage. The special
interest of this work lies in the fact that it expressed the feelings of the common people,
groaning under the oppression of feudal lords.

THE ROBIN HOOD BALLADS

The same democratic spirit breathes in the old English ballads of the outlaw Robin Hood. According
to some accounts he flourished in the second half of the twelfth century, when Henry II and
Richard the Lion-hearted reigned over England. Robin Hood, with his merry men, leads an adventurous
life in Sherwood Forest, engaging in feats of strength and hunting the king's tall deer. Bishops,
sheriffs, and gamekeepers are his only enemies. For the common people he has the greatest pity,
and robs the rich to endow the poor. Courtesy, generosity, and love of fair play are some of
the characteristics which made him a popular hero. If King Arthur was the ideal knight, Robin
Hood was the ideal yeoman. The ballads about him were sung by country folk for hundreds of years.

202. ROMANESQUE AND GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE; THE CATHEDRALS

TWO ARCHITECTURAL STYLES

The genius of the Middle Ages found its highest expression, not in books, but in buildings.
For several hundred years after the barbarian invasions architecture had made little progress
in western Europe, outside of Italy, which was subject to Byzantine influence, [8] and Spain,
which was a center of Mohammedan culture. [9] Beginning about 800 A.D. came a revival, and
the adoption of an architectural style called Romanesque, because it went back to Roman principles
of construction. Romanesque architecture arose in northern Italy and southern France and gradually
spread to other European countries. It was followed about 1100 A D. by the Gothic style of
architecture, which prevailed during the next four centuries.

THE ROMANESQUE CHURCH

The church of the early Christians seems to have been modeled upon the Roman basilica, with
its arrangement of nave and aisles, its circular arched recess (apse) at one end, and its flat,
wooden ceiling supported by columns. [10] The Romanesque church departed from the basilican
plan by the introduction of transepts, thus giving the building the form of a Latin cross.
A dome, which might be covered by a pointed roof, was generally raised over the junction of
the nave and transepts. At the same time the apse was enlarged so as to form the choir, a place
reserved for the clergy.

VAULTING AND THE ROUND ARCH

The Romanesque church also differed from a basilica in the use of vaulting to take the place
of a flat ceiling. The old Romans had constructed their vaulted roofs and domes in concrete,
which forms a rigid mass and rests securely upon the walls like the lid of a box. [11] Medieval
architects, however, built in stone, which exerts an outward thrust and tends to force the
walls apart. Consequently they found it necessary to make the walls very thick and to strengthen
them by piers, or buttresses, on the outside of the edifice. It was also necessary to reduce
the width of the vaulted spaces. The vaulting, windows, and doorways had the form of the round
arch, that is, a semicircle, as in the ancient Roman monuments. [12]

THE GOTHIC STYLE

Gothic architecture arose in France in the country around Paris, at a time when the French
kingdom was taking the lead in European affairs. Later it spread to England, Germany, the Netherlands,
and even to southern Europe. As an old chronicler wrote, "It was as if the whole world had
thrown off the rags of its ancient time, and had arrayed itself in the white robes of the churches."
The term Gothic was applied contemptuously to this architectural style by writers of the sixteenth
and seventeenth centuries, who regarded everything non-classical as barbarous. They believed
it to be an invention of the barbarian Goths, and so they called it Gothic. The name has stuck,
as bad names have a habit of doing, but nowadays every one recognizes the greatness of this
medieval art. The most beautiful buildings of the Middle Ages are of Gothic architecture.

RIBBED VAULTING AND THE FLYING BUTTRESS

The Gothic style formed a natural development of the Romanesque style. The architects of a
Gothic church wished to retain the vaulted ceiling but at the same time to do away with thick,
solid walls, which had so little window space as to leave the interior of the building dark
gloomy. They solved this problem, in the first place, by using a great number of stone ribs,
which gathered up the weight of the ceiling and rested on pillars. Ribbed vaulting made possible
higher ceilings, spanning wider areas, than in Romanesque churches. [13] In the second place,
the pillars supporting the ribs were themselves connected by means of flying buttresses with
stout piers of masonry outside the walls of the church. [14] These walls, relieved from the
pressure of the ceiling, now became a mere screen to keep out the weather. They could be built
of light materials and opened up with high, wide windows.

THE POINTED ARCH

Ribbed vaulting and the flying buttress are the distinctive features of Gothic architecture.
A third feature, noteworthy but not so important, is the use of the pointed arch. It was not
Christian in origin, for it had long been known to the Arabs in the East and the Moslem conquerors
of Sicily. [15] The semicircular or round arch can be only half as high as it is wide, but
the pointed arch may vary greatly in its proportions. The use of this device enabled the Gothic
builder to bridge over different widths at any required height. It is also lighter and more
graceful than the round arch. [16]

GOTHIC ORNAMENT

The labors of the Gothic architect were admirably seconded by those of other artists. The sculptor
cut figures of men, animals, and plants in the utmost profusion. The painter covered vacant
wall spaces with brilliant mosaics and frescoes. The wood-carver made exquisite choir stalls,
pulpits, altars, and screens. Master workmen filled the stone tracery of the windows with stained
glass unequaled in coloring by the finest modern work. Some rigorous churchmen like St. Bernard
condemned the expense of these magnificent cathedrals, but most men found in their beauty an
additional reason to praise God.

THE CATHEDRAL AS A RELIGIOUS EDIFICE

The Gothic cathedral, in fact, perfectly expressed the religious spirit of the Middle Ages.
For its erection kings and nobles offered costly gifts. The common people, when they had no
money to give, contributed their labor, each man doing what he could to carry upward the walls
and towers and to perfect every part of God's dwelling. The interior of such a cathedral, with
its vast nave rising in swelling arches to the vaulted roof, its clustered columns, its glowing
windows, and infinite variety of ornamentation, forms the most awe-inspiring sanctuary ever
raised by man. It is a prayer, a hymn, a sermon in stone.

THE SECULAR GOTHIC

Gothic architecture, though at first confined to churches, came to be used for other buildings.
Among the monuments of the secular Gothic are beautiful town halls, guild halls, markets, and
charming private houses. [17] But the cathedral remained the best expression of the Gothic style.

203. EDUCATION; THE UNIVERSITIES

COMMON SCHOOLS

Not less important than the Gothic cathedrals for the understanding of medieval civilization
were the universities. They grew out of the monastic and cathedral schools where boys were
trained to become monks or priests. Such schools had been created or restored by Charlemagne.
[18] The teaching, which lay entirely in the hands of the clergy, was elementary in character.
Pupils learned enough Latin grammar to read religious books, if not always to understand them,
and enough music to follow the services of the Church. They also studied arithmetic by means
of the awkward Roman notation, received a smattering of astronomy, and sometimes gained a little
knowledge of such subjects as geography, law, and philosophy. Besides these monastic and cathedral
schools, others were maintained by the guilds. Boys who had no regular schooling often received
instruction from the parish priest of the village or town. Illiteracy was common enough in
medieval times, but the mass of the people were by no means entirely uneducated.

RISE OF UNIVERSITIES

Between 1150 and 1500 A.D. at least eighty universities were established in western Europe.
Some speedily became extinct, but there are still about fifty European institutions of learning
which started in the Middle Ages. The earliest universities did not look to the state or to
some princely benefactor for their foundation. They arose, as it were, spontaneously. In the
eleventh and twelfth centuries Europe felt the thrill of a great intellectual revival. It was
stimulated by intercourse with the highly cultivated Arabs in Spain, Sicily, and the East,
and with the Greek scholars of Constantinople during the crusades. The desire for instruction
became so general that the common schools could not satisfy it. Other schools were then opened
in the cities and to them flocked eager learners from every quarter.

PETER ABELARD 1079-1142 A.D.

How easily a university might grow up about the personality of some eminent teacher is shown
by the career of Abelard. The eldest son of a noble family in Brittany, Abelard would naturally
have entered upon a military career, but he chose instead the life of a scholar and the contests
of debate. When still a young man he came to Paris and attended the lectures given by a master
of the cathedral school of Notre Dame. Before long he had overcome his instructor in discussion,
thus establishing his own reputation. At the early age of twenty-two Abelard himself set up
as a lecturer. Few teachers have ever attracted so large and so devoted a following. His lecture
room under the shadow of the great cathedral was filled with a crowd of youths and men drawn
from all countries.

UNIVERSITY OF PARIS

The fame of Abelard led to an increase of masters and students at Paris and so paved the way
for the establishment of the university there, later in the twelfth century. Paris soon became
such a center of learning, particularly in theology and philosophy, that a medieval writer
referred to it as "the mill where the world's corn is ground, and the hearth where its bread
is baked." The university of Paris, in the time of its greatest prosperity, had over five thousand
students. It furnished the model for the English university of Oxford, as well as for the learned
institutions of Scotland, Denmark, Sweden, and Germany.

UNIVERSITY OF BOLOGNA

The institutions of learning in southern Europe were modeled, more or less, upon the university
of Bologna. At this Italian city, in the middle of the twelfth century, a celebrated teacher
named Irnerius gathered about him thousands of pupils for the study of the Justinian code.
[19] The university developed out of his law school. Bologna was the center from which the
Roman system of jurisprudence made its way into France, Germany, and other Continental countries.
From Bologna, also, came the monk Gratian, who drew up the accepted text-book of canon law,
as followed in all Church courts. [20] What Roman law was to the Empire canon law was to the
Papacy.

UNIVERSITY ORGANIZATION

The word "university" [21] meant at first simply a union or association. In the Middle Ages
all artisans were organized in guilds, [22] and when masters and pupils associated themselves
for teaching and study they naturally copied the guild form. This was the more necessary since
the student body included so many foreigners, who found protection against annoyances only
as members of a guild.

DEGREES

Like a craft guild a university consisted of masters (the professors), who had the right to
teach, and students, both elementary and advanced, who corresponded to apprentices and journeymen.
After several years of study a student who had passed part of his examination became a "bachelor
of arts" and might teach certain elementary subjects to those beneath him. Upon the completion
of the full course--usually six years in length--the bachelor took his final examinations and,
if he passed them, received the coveted degree of "master of arts." But as is the case to-day,
many who attended the universities never took a degree at all.

THE TEACHERS

A university of the Middle Ages did not need an expensive collection of libraries, laboratories,
and museums. Its only necessary equipment consisted in lecture rooms for the professors. Not
even benches or chairs were required. Students often sat on the straw-strewn floors. The high
price of manuscripts compelled professors to give all instruction by lectures. This method
of teaching has been retained in modern universities, since even the printed book is a poor
substitute for a scholar's inspiring words.

THE STUDENTS

The universities being under the protection of the Church, it was natural that those who attended
them should possess some of the privileges of clergymen. Students were not required to pay
taxes or to serve in the army. They also enjoyed the right of trial in their own courts. This
was an especially valuable privilege, for medieval students were constantly getting into trouble
with the city authorities. The sober annals of many a university are relieved by tales of truly
Homeric conflicts between Town and Gown. When the students were dissatisfied with their treatment
in one place, it was always easy for them to go to another university. Sometimes masters and
scholars made off in a body. Oxford appears to have owed its existence to a large migration
of English students from Paris, Cambridge arose as the result of a migration from Oxford, and
the German university of Leipzig sprang from that of Prague in Bohemia.

COLLEGES

The members of a university usually lived in a number of colleges. These seem to have been
at first little more than lodging-houses, where poor students were cared for at the expense
of some benefactor. In time, however, as the colleges increased in wealth, through the gifts
made to them, they became centers of instruction under the direction of masters. At Oxford
and Cambridge, where the collegiate system has been retained to the present time, each college
has its separate buildings and enjoys the privilege of self-government.

FACULTIES

The studies in a medieval university were grouped under the four faculties of arts, theology,
law, and medicine. The first-named faculty taught the "seven liberal arts," that is, grammar,
rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, and music. They formed a legacy from old
Roman education. Theology, law, and medicine then, as now, were professional studies, taken
up after the completion of the Arts course. Owing to the constant movement of students from
one university to another, each institution tended to specialize in one or more subjects. Thus,
Paris came to be noted for theology, Montpellier, Padua, and Salerno for medicine, and Orleans,
Bologna, and Salamanca for law.

204. SCHOLASTICISM

THEOLOGICAL STUDY

Theology formed the chief subject of instruction in most medieval universities. Nearly all
the celebrated scholars of the age were theologians. They sought to arrange the doctrines of
the Church in systematic and reasonable form, in order to answer those great questions concerning
the nature of God and of the soul which have always occupied the human mind. For this purpose
it was necessary to call in the aid of philosophy. The union of theology and philosophy produced
what is known as scholasticism. [23]

ABELARD AND FREEDOM OF THOUGHT

The scholastics were loyal children of the Church and did not presume to question her teaching
in matters of religion. They held that faith precedes reason. "The Christian," it was said,
"ought to advance to knowledge through faith, not come to faith through knowledge." The brilliant
Abelard, with his keenly critical mind, found what he considered a flaw in this position: on
many subjects the authorities themselves disagreed. To show this he wrote a little book called
Sic et Non ("Yes and No"), setting forth the conflicting opinions of the Church Fathers on
one hundred and fifty-eight points of theology. In such cases how could truth be reached unless
one reasoned it out for oneself? "Constant questioning," he declared, "is the key to wisdom....
Through doubting we come to inquiry and through inquiry we perceive the truth." But this reliance
on the unaided human reason as a means of obtaining knowledge did not meet with approval, and
Abelard's views were condemned as unsound. Abelard, indeed, was a man in advance of his age.
Freedom of thought had to wait many centuries before its rights should be acknowledged.

STUDY OF ARISTOTLE

The philosophy on which the scholastics relied was chiefly that of Aristotle. [24] Christian
Europe read him at first in Latin translations from the Arabic, but versions were later made
from Greek copies found in Constantinople and elsewhere in the East. This revival of Aristotle,
though it broadened men's minds by acquainting them with the ideas of the greatest of Greek
thinkers, had serious drawbacks. It discouraged rather than favored the search for fresh truth.
Many scholastics were satisfied to appeal to Aristotle's authority, rather than take the trouble
of finding out things for themselves. The story is told of a medieval student who, having detected
spots in the sun, announced his discovery to a learned man. "My son," said the latter, "I have
read Aristotle many times, and I assure you there is nothing of the kind mentioned by him.
Be certain that the spots which you have seen are in your eyes and not in the sun."

ST. THOMAS AQUINAS, 1227-1274 A.D.

There were many famous scholastics, or "schoolmen," but easily the foremost among them was
the Italian monk, Thomas Aquinas. He taught at Paris, Cologne, Rome, and Bologna, and became
so celebrated for learning as to be known as the "Angelic Doctor." Though Aquinas died at an
early age, he left behind him no less than eighteen folio volumes. His Summa Theologiae ("Compendium
of Theology"), as the name indicates, gathered up all that the Middle Ages believed of the
relations between God and man. The Roman Church has placed him among her saints and still recommends
the study of his writings as the foundation of all sound theology.

THE SCHOLASTIC METHOD

Enough has been said to show that the method of study in medieval universities was not that
which generally obtains to-day. There was almost no original research. Law students memorized
the Justinian code. Medical students learned anatomy and physiology from old Greek books, instead
of in the dissecting room. Theologians and philosophers went to the Bible, the Church Fathers,
or Aristotle for the solution of all problems. They often debated the most subtle questions,
for instance, "Can God ever know more than He knows that He knows?" Mental gymnastics of this
sort furnished a good training in logic, but added nothing to the sum of human knowledge. Scholasticism,
accordingly, fell into disrepute, in proportion as men began to substitute scientific observation
and experiment for speculation.

205. SCIENCE AND MAGIC

SCIENTIFIC INVENTIONS

Not all medieval learning took the form of scholasticism. The twelfth and thirteenth centuries
were marked by a healthy interest in science. Long encyclopedias, written in Latin, collected
all available information about the natural world. The study of physics made conspicuous progress,
partly as a result of Arab influence. Various scientific inventions, including magnifying glasses
and clocks, were worked out. The mariner's compass, perhaps derived from the Arabs, also came
into general use. [25]

ROGER BACON, ABOUT 1214-1294 A.D.

As representative of this scientific interest we may take the Englishman, Roger Bacon. He studied
at Paris, where his attainments secured for him the title of the "Wonderful Doctor," and lectured
at Oxford. At a period when Aristotle's influence was unbounded, Bacon turned away from scholastic
philosophy to mathematics and the sciences. No great discoveries were made by him, but it is
interesting to read a passage in one of his works where some modern inventions are distinctly
foreseen. In time, he wrote, ships will be moved without rowers, and carriages will be propelled
without animals to draw them. Machines for flying will also be constructed, "wherein a man
sits revolving some engine by which artificial wings are made to beat the air like a flying
bird." Even in Bacon's day it would appear that men were trying to make steamboats, automobiles,
and aeroplanes.

GUNPOWDER

The discovery of gunpowder, a compound of saltpeter, charcoal, and sulphur, has often been
attributed to Bacon, probably incorrectly. Bacon and other men of his time seem to have been
familiar with the composition of gunpowder, but they regarded it as merely a sort of firework,
producing a sudden and brilliant flame. They little suspected that in a confined space the
expansive power of its gases could be used to hurl projectiles. Gunpowder was occasionally
manufactured during the fourteenth century, but for a long time it made more noise than it
did harm. Small brass cannon, throwing stone balls, began at length to displace the medieval
siege weapons, and still later muskets took the place of the bow, the cross-bow, and the pike.
The revolution in the art of warfare introduced by gunpowder had vast importance. It destroyed
the usefulness of the castle and enabled the peasant to fight the mailed knight on equal terms.
Gunpowder, accordingly, must be included among the forces which brought about the downfall
of feudalism.

CHEMISTRY AND ALCHEMY

The study of chemistry also engaged the attention of medieval investigators. It was, however,
much mixed up with alchemy, a false science which the Middle Ages had received from the Greeks,
and they, in turn, from the Egyptians. The alchemists believed that minerals possessed a real
life of their own and that they were continually developing in the ground toward the state
of gold, the perfect metal. It was necessary, therefore, to discover the "philosopher's stone,"
which would turn all metals into gold. The alchemists never found it, but they learned a good
deal about the various metals and discovered a number of compounds and colors. In this way
alchemy contributed to the advance of chemistry.

ASTRONOMY AND ASTROLOGY

Astronomy in the Middle Ages was the most advanced of any natural science, though the telescope
and the Copernican theory [26] were as yet in the future. Astronomy, the wise mother, had a
foolish daughter, astrology, the origin of which can be traced back to Babylonia. [27] Medieval
students no longer regarded the stars as divine, but they believed that the natural world and
the life of men were controlled by celestial influences. Hence astrologers professed to predict
the fate of a person from the position of the planets at the time of his birth. Astrological
rules were also drawn from the signs of the zodiac. A child born under the sign of the Lion
will be courageous; one born under the Crab will not go forward well in life; one born under
the Waterman will probably be drowned, and so forth. Such fancies seem absurd enough, but in
the Middle Ages educated people entertained them.

MEDIEVAL CREDULITY

Alchemy and astrology were not the only instances of medieval credulity. The most improbable
stories found ready acceptance. Roger Bacon, for instance, thought that "flying dragons" still
existed in Europe and that eating their flesh lengthened human life. Works on natural history
soberly described the lizard-like salamander, which dwelt in fire, and the phoenix, a bird
which, after living for five hundred years, burned itself to death and then rose again full
grown from the ashes. Another fabulous creature was the unicorn, with the head and body of
a horse, the hind legs of an antelope, the beard of a goat, and a long, sharp horn set in the
middle of the forehead. Various plants and minerals were also credited with marvelous powers.
Thus, the nasturtium, used as a liniment, would keep one's hair from falling out, and the sapphire,
when powdered and mixed with milk, would heal ulcers and cure headache. Such quaint beliefs
linger to-day among uneducated people, even in civilized lands.

MAGICIANS

Magicians of every sort flourished in the Middle Ages. Oneiromancers [28] took omens from dreams.
Palmists read fortunes in the lines and irregularities of the hand. Necromancers [29] professed
to reveal the future by pretended communications with departed spirits. Other magicians made
talismans or lucky objects to be worn on the person, mirrors in which the images of the dead
or the absent were reflected, and various powders which, when mixed with food or drink, would
inspire hatred or affection in the one consuming them. Indeed, it would be easy to draw up
a long list of the devices by which practitioners of magic made a living at the expense of
the ignorant and the superstitious.

206. POPULAR SUPERSTITIONS

FOLK TALES

Many medieval superstitions are preserved in folk tales, or "fairy stories." Every child now
reads these tales in books, but until the nineteenth century very few of them had been collected
and written down. [30] They lived on the lips of the people, being told by mothers and nurses
to children and by young and old about the firesides during the long winter evenings. Story-telling
formed one of the chief amusements of the Middle Ages.

FAIRIES

The fairies who appear so commonly in folk tales are known by different names. They are bogies,
brownies, goblins, pixies, kobolds (in Germany), trolls (in Denmark), and so on. The Celts,
especially, had a lively faith in fairies, and it was from Wales, Scotland, and Ireland that
many stories about them became current in Europe after the tenth century. Some students have
explained the belief in fairies as due to memories of an ancient pygmy people dwelling in underground
homes. But most of these supernatural beings seem to be the descendants of the spirits and
demons which in savage fancy haunt the world.

CHARACTERISTICS OF FAIRIES

A comparison of European folk tales shows that fairies have certain characteristics in common.
They live in palaces underneath the ground, from which they emerge at twilight to dance in
mystic circles. They are ruled by kings and queens and are possessed of great wealth. Though
usually invisible, they may sometimes be seen, especially by people who have the faculty of
perceiving spirits. To mortals the fairies are generally hostile, leading wanderers astray,
often blighting crops and cattle, and shooting arrows which carry disease and death. They are
constantly on the watch to carry off human beings to their realm. A prisoner must be released
at the end of a certain time, unless he tastes fairy food, in which event he can never return.
Children in cradles are frequently snatched away by the fairies, who leave, instead, imps of
their own called "changelings." A changeling may always be recognized by its peevishness and
backwardness in learning to walk and speak. If well treated, the fairies will sometimes show
their gratitude by bestowing on their favorites health, wealth, and long life. Lucky the child
who can count on a "fairy god-mother."

GIANTS AND OGRES

Stories of giants are common in folk tales. Giants are often represented as not only big but
also stupid, and as easily overcome by keen-witted human foes like "Jack the Giant-killer."
It may be that traditions of pre- historic peoples have sometimes given birth to legends of
giants. Another source of stories concerning them has been the discovery of huge fossil bones,
such as those of the mammoth or mastodon, which were formerly supposed to be bones of gigantic
men. The ogres, who sometimes figure in folk tales, are giants with a taste for human flesh.
They recall the cannibals of the savage world.

WEREWOLVES

Werewolves were persons who, by natural gift or magic art, were thought to have the power of
turning themselves for a time into wild beasts (generally wolves or bears). In this animal
shape they ravaged flocks and devoured young children. A werewolf was said to sleep only two
nights in the month and to spend the rest of the time roaming the woods and fields. Trials
of persons accused of being werewolves were held in France as late as the end of the sixteenth
century. Even now the belief is found in out- of-the-way parts of Europe.

THE EVIL EYE

Another medieval superstition was that of the evil eye. According to this belief, certain persons
could bewitch, injure, and kill by a glance. Children and domestic animals were thought to
be particularly susceptible to the effects of "fascination." In order to guard against it charms
of various sorts, including texts from the Bible, were carried about. The belief in the evil
eye came into Europe from pagan antiquity. It survived the Middle Ages and lingers yet among
uneducated people.

WITCHCRAFT

The superstitions relating to werewolves and the evil eye are particular forms of the belief
in witchcraft, or "black magic." The Middle Ages could not escape this delusion, which was
firmly held by the Greeks and Romans and other ancient peoples. Witchcraft had, indeed, a prehistoric
origin and the belief in it still prevails in savage society.

FEATURES OF EUROPEAN WITCHCRAFT

Witches and wizards were supposed to have sold themselves to the Devil, receiving in return
the power to work magic. They could change themselves or others into animals, they had charms
against the hurt of weapons, they could raise storms and destroy crops, and they could convey
thorns, pins, and other objects into their victims' bodies, thus causing sickness and death.
At night they rode on broomsticks through the air and assembled in some lonely place for feasts,
dances, and wild revels. At these "Witches' Sabbaths," as they were called, the Devil himself
attended and taught his followers their diabolic arts. There were various tests for the discovery
of witches and wizards, the most usual being the ordeal by water. [31]

WITCHCRAFT PERSECUTIONS

The numerous trials and executions for witchcraft form a dark page in history. Thousands of
harmless old men and women were put to death on the charge of being leagued with the Devil.
Even the most intelligent and humane people believed in the reality of witchcraft and found
a justification for its punishment in the Scriptural command, "Thou shalt not suffer a witch
to live." [32] The witch epidemic which broke out in America during the seventeenth century,
reaching its height at Salem, Massachusetts, was simply a reflection of the European fear and
hatred of witches.

UNLUCKY DAYS

The Middle Ages inherited from antiquity the observance of unlucky days. They went under the
name of "Egyptian days," so called because it was held that on one of them the plagues had
been sent to devastate the land of Egypt and on another Pharaoh and his host had been swallowed
up in the Red Sea. At least twenty-four days in the year were regarded as very unlucky. At
such times one ought not to buy and sell, to build a house, to plant a field, to travel or,
in fact, to undertake anything at all important. After the sixteenth century the belief in
unlucky days declined, but there still exists a prejudice against fishermen starting out to
fish, or seamen to take a voyage, or landsmen a journey, or domestic servants to enter a new
place, on a Friday.

207. POPULAR AMUSEMENTS AND FESTIVALS

INDOOR GAMES

It is pleasant to turn from the superstitions of the Middle Ages to the games, sports, and
festivals which helped to make life agreeable alike for rich and poor, for nobles and peasants.
Some indoor games are of eastern origin. Thus chess, with which European peoples seem to have
become acquainted as early as the tenth century [33] arose in India as a war game. On each
side a king and his general, with chariots, cavalry, elephants, and infantry, met in battle
array. These survive in the rooks, knights, bishops, and pawns of the modern game. Checkers
is a sort of simplified chess, in which the pieces are all pawns, till they get across the
board and become kings. Playing cards are another Oriental invention. They were introduced
into Europe in the fourteenth century, either by the Arabs or the gypsies. Their first use
seems to have been for telling fortunes.

OUTDOOR GAMES

Many outdoor games are derived from those played in medieval times. How one kind of game may
become the parent of many others is seen in the case of the ball-play. The ancients tossed
and caught balls as children do now. They also had a game in which each side tried to secure
the ball and throw it over the adversary's goal line. This game lasted on into the Middle Ages,
and from it football has descended. The ancients seem never to have used a stick or bat in
their ball-play. The Persians, however, began to play ball on horseback, using a long mallet
for the purpose, and introduced their new sport throughout Asia. Under the Tibetan name of
pulu ("ball") it found its way into Europe. When once the mallet had been invented for use
on horseback, it could be easily used on foot, and so polo gave rise to the various games in
which balls are hit with bats, including tennis, hockey, golf, cricket, and croquet.

BAITING

The difference between our ideas of what constitutes "sport" and those of our ancestors is
shown by the popularity of baiting. In the twelfth century bulls, bears, and even horses were
baited. Cock-fighting formed another common amusement. It was not till the nineteenth century
that an English society for the prevention of cruelty to animals succeeded in getting a law
passed which forbade these cruel sports. Most other European countries have now followed England's
example.

FESTIVALS

No account of life in the Middle Ages can well omit some reference to the celebration of festivals.
For the peasant and artisan they provided relief from physical exertion, and for all classes
of society the pageants, processions, sports, feasts, and merry-makings which accompanied them
furnished welcome diversion. Medieval festivals included not only those of the Christian Year,
[34] but also others which had come down from pre- Christian times.

SEASONAL FESTIVALS

Many festivals not of Christian origin were derived from the ceremonies with which the heathen
peoples of Europe had been accustomed to mark the changes of the seasons. Thus, April Fool's
Day formed a relic of festivities held at the vernal equinox. May Day, another festival of
spring, honored the spirits of trees and of all budding vegetation. The persons who acted as
May kings and May queens represented these spirits. According to the original custom a new
May tree was cut down in the forest every year, but later a permanent May pole was set up on
the village common. On Midsummer Eve (June 23), which marked the summer solstice, came the
fire festival, when people built bonfires and leaped over them, walked in procession with torches
round the fields, and rolled burning wheels down the hillsides. These curious rites may have
been once connected with sun worship. Hallow Eve, so called from being the eve of All Saints'
Day (November 1), also seems to have been a survival of a heathen celebration. On this night
witches and fairies were supposed to assemble. Hallow Eve does not appear to have been a season
for pranks and jokes, as is its present degenerate form. Even the festival of Christmas, coming
at the winter solstice, kept some heathen features, such as the use of mistletoe with which
Celtic priests once decked the altars of their gods. The Christmas tree, however, is not a
relic of heathenism. It seems to have come into use as late as the seventeenth century.

THE MORRIS DANCE

Young and old took part in the dances which accompanied village festivals. Very popular in
medieval England was the Morris dance. The name, a corruption of Moorish, refers to its origin
in Spain. The Morris dance was especially associated with May Day and was danced round a May
pole to a lively and capering step. The performers represented Robin Hood, Maid Marian, his
wife, Tom the Piper, and other traditional characters. On their garments they wore bells tuned
to different notes, so as to sound in harmony.

MUMMING

Mumming had a particular association with Christmas. Mummers were bands of men and women who
disguised themselves in masks and skins of animals and then serenaded people outside their
houses. Oftentimes the mummers acted out little plays in which Father Christmas, Old King Cole,
and St. George were familiar figures.

MIRACLE PLAYS

Besides these village amusements, many plays of a religious character came into vogue during
the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. The earliest were the miracle plays. They presented in
dramatic form scenes from the Bible and stories of the saints or martyrs. The actors at first
were priests, and the stage was the church itself or the churchyard. This religious setting
did not prevent the introduction of clowns and buffoons. After a time the miracle play passed
from the clergy to the guilds. All the guilds of a town usually gave an exhibition once a year.
Each guild presented a single scene in the story. An exhibition might last for several days
and have as many as fifty scenes, beginning at Creation and ending with Doomsday. [35]

MORALITY PLAYS

The miracle plays were followed by the "moralities." They dealt with the struggle between good
and evil, rather than with theology. Characters such as Charity, Faith, Prudence, Riches, Confession,
and Death appeared and enacted a story intended to teach moral lessons. [36] Out of the rude
"morality" and its predecessor, the miracle play, has grown the drama of modern times.

208. MANNERS AND CUSTOMS

DWELLINGS

A previous chapter (Chapter XVIII.) described some features of domestic life in castle and
village during the age of feudalism. In England, where the Norman kings discouraged castle
building, the manor house formed the ordinary residence of the nobility. Even in Continental
Europe many castles were gradually made over into manor houses after the cessation of feudal
warfare. A manor house, however, was only less bare and inconvenient than a castle. It was
still poorly lighted, ill-ventilated, and in winter scarcely warmed by the open wood fires.
Among the improvements of the fourteenth century were the building of a fireplace at one or
both ends of the manor hall, instead of in the center, and the substitution of glass windows
for wooden shutters or oiled paper.

FURNITURE

People in the Middle Ages, even the well-to-do, got along with little furniture. The great
hall of a manor house contained a long dining table, with benches used at meals, and a few
stools. The family beds often occupied curtained recesses in the walls, but guests might have
to sleep on the floor of the manor hall. Servants often slept in the stables. Few persons could
afford rugs to cover the floor; the poor had to put up with rushes. Utensils were not numerous,
and articles of glass and silver were practically unknown, except in the houses of the rich.
Entries in wills show the high value set upon a single spoon.

COSTUME

The pictures in old manuscripts give us a good idea of medieval dress. Naturally it varied
with time and place, and according to the social position of the wearer. Sometimes laws were
passed, without much result, to regulate the quality, shape, and cost of the costumes to be
worn by different orders of society. The moralists of the age were shocked, then as now, when
tightly fitting garments, which showed the outlines of the body, became fashionable. The inconvenience
of putting them on led to the use of buttons and buttonholes. Women's headdresses were often
of extraordinary height and shape. Not less remarkable were the pointed shoes worn by men.
The points finally got so long that they hindered walking, unless tied by a ribbon to the knees.

BEARDS

The medieval noble of the twelfth century as a rule went clean shaven. To wear a beard was
regarded as a sign of effeminacy in a man. The Bayeux Tapestry, [37] for instance, shows the
Normans mostly clean-shaven, while the English wear only moustaches. The introduction of long
beards seems to have been due to contact with the East during the crusading period.

BATHS AND BATHING

Regular bathing was not by any means neglected during the later Middle Ages. In the country
districts river, lake, or pool met the needs of people used to outdoor life. The hot air and
vapor baths of the Byzantines were adopted by the Moslems and later, through the Moors and
crusaders, were made known to western Europe. After the beginning of the thirteenth century
few large cities lacked public bathing places.

FOOD

Medieval cookbooks show that people of means had all sorts of elaborate and expensive dishes.
Dinner at a nobleman's house might include as many as ten or twelve courses, mostly meats and
game. Such things as hedgehogs, peacocks, sparrows, and porpoises, which would hardly tempt
the modern palate, were relished. Much use was made of spices in preparing meats and gravies,
and also for flavoring wines. Over-eating was a common vice in the Middle Ages, but the open-air
life and constant exercise enabled men and women to digest the huge quantities of food they
consumed.

TABLE ETIQUETTE

People in medieval times had no knives or forks and consequently ate with their fingers. Daggers
also were employed to convey food to the mouth. Forks date from the end of the thirteenth century,
but were adopted only slowly. As late as the sixteenth century German preachers condemned their
use, for, said they, the Lord would not have given us fingers if he had wanted us to rely on
forks. Napkins were another table convenience unknown in the Middle Ages.

DRINKING

In the absence of tea and coffee, ale and beer formed the drink of the common people. The upper
classes regaled themselves on costly wines. Drunkenness was as common and as little reprobated
as gluttony. The monotony of life in medieval Europe, when the nobles had little to do but
hunt and fight, may partly account for the prevailing inebriety. But doubtless in large measure
it was a Teutonic characteristic. The Northmen were hard drinkers, and of the ancient Germans
a Roman writer states that "to pass an entire day and night in drinking disgraces no one."
[38] This habit of intoxication survived in medieval Germany, and the Anglo-Saxons and Danes
introduced it into England.

CENTRAL PERIOD OF THE MIDDLE AGES

Our survey of the twelfth and thirteenth centuries has now shown us that these two hundred
years deserve to be called the central period of the Middle Ages. When the Arabs had brought
the culture of the Orient to Spain and Sicily, when the Northmen after their wonderful expansion
had settled down in Normandy, England, and other countries, and when the peoples of western
Europe, whether as peaceful pilgrims or as warlike crusaders, had visited Constantinople and
the Holy Land, men's minds received a wonderful stimulus. The intellectual life of Europe was
"speeded up," and the way was prepared for the even more rapid advance of knowledge in the
fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, as the Middle Ages passed into modern times.

STUDIES

1. Look up on the map between pages 358-359 the following places where Gothic cathedrals are
found: Canterbury, York, Salisbury, Reims, Amiens, Chartres, Cologne, Strassburg, Burgos, Toledo,
and Milan.

2. Look up on the map facing page 654 the location of the following medieval universities:
Oxford, Montpellier, Paris, Orleans, Cologne, Leipzig, Prague, Naples, and Salamanca.

3. Explain the following terms: scholasticism; canon law; alchemy; troubadours; Provencal language;
transept; choir; flying buttress; werewolf; and mumming.

4. Who were St. Thomas Aquinas, Abelard, Gratian, Irnerius, and Roger Bacon?

5. Show how Latin served as an international language in the Middle Ages. Name two artificial
languages which have been invented as a substitute for Latin.

6. What is meant by saying that "French is a mere patois of Latin"?

7. In what parts of the world is English now the prevailing speech?

8. Why has Siegfried, the hero of the Nibelungenlied, been called the "Achilles of Teutonic
legend"?

9. What productions of medieval literature reflect aristocratic and democratic ideals, respectively?

10. Distinguish between the Romanesque and Gothic styles of architecture. What is the origin
of each term?

11. Compare the ground plans of a Greek temple (page 291), a Roman basilica (page 284), and
a Gothic cathedral (page 562).

12. Contrast a Gothic cathedral with a Greek temple, particularly in regard to size, height,
support of the roof, windows, and decorative features.

13. Why is there some excuse for describing a Gothic building as "a wall of glass with a roof
of stone"?

14. Do you see any resemblance in structural features between a Gothic cathedral and a modern
"sky-scraper"?

15. Mention some likenesses between medieval and modern universities.

16. Mention some important subjects of instruction in modern universities which were not treated
in those of the Middle Ages.

17. Why has scholasticism been called "a sort of Aristotelian Christianity"?

18. Look up the original meaning of the words "jovial," "saturnine," "mercurial," "disastrous,"
"contemplate," and "consider."

19. Show the indebtedness of chemistry to alchemy and of astronomy to astrology.

20. Mention some common folk tales which illustrate medieval superstitions.

21. Why was Friday regarded as a specially unlucky day?

22. Enumerate the most important contributions to civilization made during the Middle Ages.

[2] See pages 203, 322.

[3] The language spoken by the natives of Flanders. The country is now divided between France,
Belgium, and Holland. See page 549.

[4] Icelandic is the oldest and purest form of Scandinavian. Danish and Norwegian are practically
the same, in fact, their literary or book- language is one.

[5] Two names for rivers--Avon and Ex--which in one form or another are found in every part
of England, are Celtic words meaning "water."

[6] See page 518.

[7] See page 309, note 1.

[8] See page 336.

[9] See page 386.

[10] See pages 284, 344.

[11] See page 283.

[12] The cathedral, baptistery, and campanile of Pisa form an interesting example of Romanesque
architecture. See the illustration, page 544.

[13] The interior of King's College Chapel, Cambridge, shows the ribs and the beautiful tracery
of the ceiling of a Gothic building. See the plate facin page 570.

[14] The flying buttress is well shown in the view of Canterbury Cathedral (page 324).

[15] See page 386.

[16] For the pointed arch see the view of Melrose Abbey (page 660).

[17] See the illustrations, pages 550, 551.

[18] See page 310.

[19] See pages 207, 331.

[20] See page 444.

[21] Latin universitas.

[22] See page 536.

[23] The method of the school (Latin schola).

[24] See pages 275 and 383.

[25] See page 618.

[26] See pages 133 and 608.

[27] See page 53.

[28] Greek oneiros, "dream."

[29] Greek nekros, "corpse."

[30] Charles Perrault's Tales of Passed Times appeared at Paris in 1697 A.D. It included the
now-familiar stories of "Bluebeard," "Cinderella," "Sleeping Beauty," and "Little Red Riding
Hood." In 1812 A.D. the brothers Grimm published their Household Tales, a collection of stories
current in Germany.

[31] See page 420.

[32] Exodus, xxii, 18.

[33] See page 428.

[34] See page 346.

[35] The great Passion Play at Ober Ammergau in Germany is the modern survival and representative
of this medieval religious drama.

[36] Everyman, one of the best of the morality plays, has recently been revived before large
audiences.

[37] See the illustration, page 408.

[38] Tacitus, Germania, 22.

CHAPTER XXV

THE RENAISSANCE [1]

209. MEANING OF THE RENAISSANCE

LATER PERIOD OF THE MIDDLE AGES

The fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, covering the later period of the Middle Ages, are commonly
known as those of the Renaissance. This French word means Rebirth or Revival. It is a convenient
term for all the changes in society, law, and government, in science, philosophy, and religion,
in literature and art which gradually transformed medieval civilization into that of modern times.

LIMITS OF THE RENAISSANCE

The Renaissance, just because of its transitional character, cannot be exactly dated. Some
Renaissance movements started before 1300 A.D. For instance, the study of Roman law, as a substitute
for Germanic customs, began toward the close of the eleventh century. The rise of European
cities, with all that they meant for industry and commerce, belonged to about the same time.
Other Renaissance movements, again, extended beyond 1500 A.D. Among these were the expansion
of geographical knowledge, resulting from the discovery of the New World, and the revolt against
the Papacy, known as the Protestant Reformation. The Middle Ages, in fact, came to an end at
different times in different fields of human activity.

ORIGINAL HOME OF THE RENAISSANCE

The name Renaissance applied, at first, only to the rebirth or revival of men's interest in
the literature and art of classical antiquity. Italy was the original home of this Renaissance.
There it first appeared, there it found widest acceptance, and there it reached its highest
development. From Italy the Renaissance gradually spread beyond the Alps, until it had made
the round of western Europe.

ITALIAN CITIES OF THE RENAISSANCE

Italy, at the beginning of the fourteenth century, was a land particularly favorable to the
growth of learning and the arts. In northern Italy the great cities of Milan, Pisa, Genoa,
Florence, Venice, and many others had early succeeded in throwing off their feudal burdens
and had become independent, self-governing communities. Democracy flourished in them, as in
the old Greek city-states. Noble birth counted for little; a man of ability and ambition might
rise to any place. The fierce party conflicts within their walls stimulated mental activity
and helped to make life full, varied, and intense. Their widespread trade and thriving manufactures
made them prosperous. Wealth brought leisure, bred a taste for luxury and the refinements of
life, and gave means for the gratification of that taste. People wanted to have about them
beautiful pictures, statuary, furniture, palaces, and churches; and they rewarded richly the
artists who could produce such things. It is not without significance that the birthplace of
the Italian Renaissance was democratic, industrial, and wealthy Florence. [2]

INFLUENCE OF THE CLASSIC TRADITION

Italy enjoyed another advantage over the other European countries in its nearness to Rome.
Admiration for the ancient Roman civilization, as expressed in literature, art, and law, was
felt by all Italians. Wherever they looked, they were reminded of the great past which once
had been theirs. Nor was the inheritance of Greece wholly lost. Greek traders and the descendants
of Greek colonists in Italy still used their ancient language; all through the medieval centuries
there were Italians who studied Greek. The classic tradition thus survived in Italy and defied
oblivion.

BYZANTINE, ARABIC, AND NORMAN INFLUENCE

In the Middle Ages Italy formed a meeting place of several civilizations. Byzantine influence
was felt both in the north and in the south. The conquest of Sicily by the Arabs made the Italians
familiar with the science, art, and poetry of this cultivated people. After the Normans had
established themselves in southern Italy and Sicily, they in turn developed a brilliant civilization.
[3] From all these sources flowed streams of cultural influence which united in the Renaissance.

210. REVIVAL OF LEARNING IN ITALY

THE CLASSICS IN THE MIDDLE AGES

The literature of Greece and Rome did not entirely disappear in western Europe after the Germanic
invasions. The monastery and cathedral schools of the Middle Ages had nourished devoted students
of ancient books. The Benedictine monks labored zealously in copying the works of pagan as
well as Christian authors. The rise of universities made it possible for the student to pursue
a fairly extended course in Latin literature at more than one institution of learning. Greek
literature, however, was little known in the West. The poems of Homer were read only in a brief
Latin summary, and even Aristotle's writings were studied in Latin translations.

DANTE ALIGHIERI 1265-1321 A.D.

Reverence for the classics finds constant expression in the writings of the Italian poet Dante.
He was a native of Florence, but passed much of his life in exile. Dante's most famous work,
the Divine Comedy, describes an imaginary visit to the other world. Vergil guides him through
the realms of Hell and Purgatory until he meets his lady Beatrice, the personification of love
and purity, who conducts him through Paradise. The Divine Comedy gives in artistic verse an
epitome of all that medieval men knew and hoped and felt: it is a mirror of the Middle Ages.
At the same time it drew much of its inspiration from Graeco-Roman sources. Athens, for Dante,
is the "hearth from which all knowledge glows"; Homer is the "loftiest of poets", and Aristotle
is the "master of those who know." This feeling for classical antiquity entitles Dante to rank
as a prophet of the Renaissance.

DANTE AND THE ITALIAN LEAGUE

Dante exerted a noteworthy influence on the Italian language. He wrote the Divine Comedy, not
in Latin, but in the vernacular Italian as spoken in Florence. The popularity of this work
helped to give currency to the Florentine dialect, and in time it became the literary language
of Italy. Italian was the first of the Romance tongues to assume a national character.

PETRARCH, 1304-1374 A.D.

Petrarch, a younger contemporary of Dante, and like him a native of Florence, has been called
the first modern scholar and man of letters. He devoted himself with tireless energy to classical
studies. Writing to a friend, Petrarch declares that he has read Vergil, Horace, Livy, and
Cicero, "not once, but a thousand times, not cursorily but studiously and intently, bringing
to them the best powers of my mind. I tasted in the morning and digested at night. I quaffed
as a boy, to ruminate as an old man. These works have become so familiar to me that they cling
not to my memory merely, but to the very marrow of my bones."

PETRARCH AS A LATIN REVIVALIST

Petrarch himself composed many Latin works and did much to spread a knowledge of Latin authors.
He traveled widely in Italy, France, and other countries, searching everywhere for ancient
manuscripts. When he found in one place two lost orations of Cicero and in another place a
collection of Cicero's letters, he was transported with delight. He kept copyists in his house,
at times as many as four, busily making transcripts of the manuscripts that he had discovered
or borrowed. Petrarch knew almost no Greek. His copy of Homer, it is said, he often kissed,
though he could not read it.

BOCCACCIO, 1313-1375 A.D.

Petrarch's friend and disciple, Boccaccio, was the first to bring to Italy manuscripts of the
Iliad and the Odyssey. Having learned some Greek, he wrote out a translation of those epic
poems. But Boccaccio's fame to- day rests on the Decameron. It is a collection of one hundred
stories written in Italian. They are supposed to be told by a merry company of men and women,
who, during a plague at Florence, have retired to a villa in the country. The Decameron is
the first important work in Italian prose. Many English writers, notably Chaucer in his Canterbury
Tales [4] have gone to it for ideas and plots. The modern short story may be said to date from
Boccaccio.

STUDY OF GREEK IN ITALY

The renewed interest in Latin literature, due to Petrarch, Boccaccio, and others, was followed
in the fifteenth century by the revival of Greek literature. In 1396 A.D. Chrysoloras, a scholar
from Constantinople, began to lecture on Greek in the university of Florence. He afterwards
taught in other Italian cities and further aided the growth of Hellenic studies by preparing
a Greek grammar--the first book of its kind. From this time, and especially after the fall
of Constantinople in 1453 A.D., many learned Greeks came to Italy, thus transplanting in the
West the culture of the East. "Greece had not perished, but had emigrated to Italy."

HUMANISM

To the scholars of the fifteenth century the classics opened up a new world of thought and
fancy. They were delighted by the fresh, original, and human ideas which they discovered in
the pages of Homer, Plato, Cicero, Horace, and Tacitus. Their new enthusiasm for the classics
came to be known as humanism, [5] or culture. The Greek and Latin languages and literatures
were henceforth the "humanities," as distinguished from the old scholastic philosophy and theology.

SPREAD OF HUMANISM IN ITALY

From Florence, as from a second Athens, humanism spread throughout Italy. At Milan and Venice,
at Rome and Naples, men fell to poring over the classics. A special feature of the age was
the recovery of ancient manuscripts from monasteries and cathedrals, where they had often lain
neglected and blackened with the dust of ages. Nearly all the Latin works now extant were brought
to light by the middle of the fifteenth century. But it was not enough to recover the manuscripts:
they had to be safely stored and made accessible to students. So libraries were established,
professorships of the ancient languages were endowed, and scholars were given opportunities
to pursue their researches. Even the popes shared in this zeal for humanism. One of them founded
the Vatican Library at Rome, which has the most valuable collection of manuscripts in the world.
At Florence the wealthy family of the Medici vied with the popes in the patronage of the new
learning.

211. PAPER AND PRINTING

PRINTED BOOKS

The revival of learning was greatly hastened when printed books took the place of manuscripts
laboriously copied by hand. Printing is a complicated process, and many centuries were required
to bring it to perfection. Both paper and movable type had to be invented.

INTRODUCTION OF PAPER

The Chinese at a remote period made paper from some fibrous material. The Arabs seem to have
been the first to make linen paper out of flax and rags. The manufacture of paper in Europe
was first established by the Moors in Spain. The Arab occupation of Sicily introduced the art
into Italy. Paper found a ready sale in Europe, because papyrus and parchment, which the ancients
had used as writing materials, were both expensive and heavy. Men now had a material moderate
in price, durable, and one that would easily receive the impression of movable type.

DEVELOPMENT OF MOVABLE TYPE

The first step in the development of printing was the use of engraved blocks. Single letters,
separate words, and sometimes entire pages of text were cut in hard wood or copper. When inked
and applied to writing material, they left a clear impression. The second step was to cast
the letters in separate pieces of metal, all of the same height and thickness. These could
then be arranged in any desired way for printing.

GUTENBERG

Movable type had been used for centuries by the Chinese, Japanese, and Koreans in the East,
and in Europe several printers have been credited with their invention. A German, Johann Gutenberg
of Mainz, set up the first printing press with movable type about 1450 A.D., and from it issued
the first printed book. This was a Latin translation of the Bible.

ALDUS AND CAXTON

The new art quickly spread throughout Christian Europe. It met an especially warm welcome in
Italy, where people felt so keen a desire for reading and instruction. By the end of the fifteenth
century Venice alone had more than two hundred printing presses. Here Aldus Manutius maintained
a famous establishment for printing Greek and Latin classics. In 1476 A.D. the English printer,
William Caxton, set up his wooden presses within the precincts of Westminster Abbey. To him
we owe editions of Chaucer's poems, Sir Thomas Malory's Morte d'Arthur, [6] Aesop's Fables,
and many other works.

INCUNABULA

The books printed in the fifteenth century go by the name of incunabula. [7] Of the seven or
eight million volumes which appeared before 1500 A.D., about thirty thousand are believed to
be still in existence. Many of these earliest books were printed in heavy, "black letter" type,
an imitation of the characters used in monkish manuscripts. It is still retained for most books
printed in Germany. The clearer and neater "Roman" characters, resembling the letters employed
for ancient Roman inscriptions, came into use in southern Europe and England. The Aldine press
at Venice also devised "italic" type, said to be modeled after Petrarch's handwriting, to enable
the publisher to crowd more words on a page.

IMPORTANCE OF PRINTING

The invention of printing has been called the greatest event in history. The statement is hardly
too strong. It is easy to see that printing immensely increased the supply of books. A hardworking
copyist might produce, at the most, only a few volumes a year; a printing press could strike
them off by the thousands. Not only more books, but also more accurate books, could be produced
by printing. The old-time copyist, however skilful, was sure to make mistakes, sometimes of
a serious character. No two copies of any manuscript were exactly alike. When, however, an
entire edition was printed from the same type, mistakes in the different copies might be entirely
eliminated. Furthermore, the invention of printing destroyed the monopoly of learning possessed
by the universities and people of wealth. Books were now the possession of the many, not the
luxury of the few. Anyone who could read had opened to him the gateway of knowledge; he became
a citizen, henceforth, of the republic of letters. Printing, which made possible popular education,
public libraries, and ultimately cheap newspapers, ranks with gunpowder [8] as an emancipating
force.

212. REVIVAL OF ART IN ITALY

ARCHITECTURE

Gothic architecture, with its pointed arches, flying buttresses, and traceried windows, never
struck deep roots in Italy. The architects of the Renaissance went back to Greek temples and
Roman domed buildings for their models, just as the humanists went back to Greek and Latin
literature. Long rows of Ionic or Corinthian columns, spanned by round arches, became again
the prevailing architectural style. Perhaps the most important accomplishment of Renaissance
builders was the adoption of the dome, instead of the vault, for the roofs of churches. The
majestic cupola of St. Peter's at Rome, [9] which is modeled after the Pantheon, [10] has become
the parent of many domed structures in the Old and New World. [11] Architects, however, did
not limit themselves to churches. The magnificent palaces of Florence, as well as some of those
in Venice, are among the monuments of the Renaissance era. Henceforth architecture became more
and more a secular art.

SCULPTURE

The development of architecture naturally stimulated the other arts. Italian sculptors began
to copy the ancient bas-reliefs and statues preserved in Rome and other cities. At this time
glazed terra cotta came to be used by sculptors. Another Renaissance art was the casting of
bronze doors, with panels which represented scenes from the Bible. The beautiful doors of the
baptistery of Florence were described as "worthy of being placed at the entrance of Paradise."

MICHELANGELO, 1475-1564 A.D.

The greatest of Renaissance sculptors was Michelangelo. Though a Florentine by birth, he lived
in Rome and made that city a center of Italian art. A colossal statue of David, who looks like
a Greek athlete, and another of Moses, seated and holding the table of the law, are among his
best-known works. Michelangelo also won fame in architecture and painting. The dome of St.
Peter's was finished after his designs. Having been commissioned by one of the popes to decorate
the ceiling of the Sistine chapel [12] in the Vatican, he painted a series of scenes which
presented the Biblical story from the Creation to the Flood. These frescoes are unequaled for
sublimity and power. On the end wall of the same chapel Michelangelo produced his fresco of
the "Last Judgment," one of the most famous paintings in the world.

RISE OF ITALIAN PAINTING

The early Italian painters contented themselves, at first, with imitating Byzantine mosaics
and enamels. [13] Their work exhibited little knowledge of human anatomy: faces might be lifelike,
but bodies were too slender and out of proportion. The figures of men and women were posed
in stiff and conventional attitudes. The perspective also was false: objects which the painter
wished to represent in the background were as near as those which he wished to represent in
the foreground. In the fourteenth century, however, Italian painting abandoned the Byzantine
style; achieved beauty of form, design, and color to an extent hitherto unknown; and became
at length the supreme art of the Renaissance.

CHARACTERISTICS OF ITALIAN PAINTING

Italian painting began in the service of the Church and always remained religious in character.
Artists usually chose subjects from the Bible or the lives of the saints. They did not trouble
themselves to secure correctness of costume, but represented ancient Jews, Greeks, and Romans
in the garb of Italian gentlemen. Many of their pictures were frescoes, that is, the colors
were mixed with water and applied to the plaster walls of churches and palaces. After the process
of mixing oils with the colors was discovered, pictures on wood or canvas (easel paintings)
became common. Renaissance painters excelled in portraiture. They were less successful with
landscapes.

THE "OLD MASTERS"

Among the "old masters" of Italian painting four, besides Michelangelo, stand out with special
prominence. Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519 A.D.) was architect, sculptor, musician, and engineer,
as well as painter. His finest work, the "Last Supper," a fresco painting at Milan, is much
damaged, but fortunately good copies of it exist. Paris has the best of his easel pictures--the
"Monna Lisa." Leonardo spent four years on it and then declared that he could not finish it
to his satisfaction. Leonardo's contemporary, Raphael (1483-1520 A.D.), died before he was
forty, but not before he had produced the "Sistine Madonna," now at Dresden, the "Transfiguration,"
in the Vatican Gallery at Rome, and many other famous compositions. In Raphael Italian painting
reached its zenith. All his works are masterpieces. Another artist, the Venetian Titian (1477?-1576
A.D.), painted portraits unsurpassed for glowing color. His "Assumption of the Virgin" ranks
among the greatest pictures in the world. Lastly must be noted the exquisite paintings of Correggio
(1494-1534 A.D.), among them the "Holy Night" and the "Marriage of St. Catherine."

MUSIC

Another modern art, that of music, arose in Italy during the Renaissance. In the sixteenth
century the three-stringed rebeck received a fourth string and became the violin, the most
expressive of all musical instruments. A forerunner of the pianoforte also appeared in the
harpsichord. A papal organist and choir-master, Palestrina (1526-1594 A.D.), was the first
of the great composers. He gave music its fitting place in worship by composing melodious hymns
and masses still sung in Roman Catholic churches. The oratorio, a religious drama set to music
but without action, scenery, or costume, had its beginning at this time. The opera, however,
was little developed until the eighteenth century.

213. REVIVAL OF LEARNING AND ART BEYOND ITALY

SPREAD OF HUMANISM IN EUROPE

About the middle of the fifteenth century fire from the Italian altar was carried across the
Alps, and a revival of learning began in northern lands. Italy had led the way by recovering
the long-buried treasures of the classics and by providing means for their study. Scholars
in Germany, France, and England, who now had the aid of the printing press, continued the intellectual
movement and gave it widespread currency.

DESIDERIUS ERASMUS 1466(?)-1536 A.D.

The foremost humanist of the age was Desiderius Erasmus. Though a native of Rotterdam in Holland,
he lived for a time in Germany, France, England, and Italy, and died at Basel in Switzerland.
His travels and extensive correspondence brought him in contact with most of the leading scholars
of the day. Erasmus wrote in Latin many works which were read and enjoyed by educated men.
He might be called the first really popular author in Europe. Like Petrarch, he did much to
encourage the humanistic movement by his precepts and his example. "When I have money," said
this devotee of the classics, "I will first buy Greek books and then clothes."

GREEK TESTAMENT OF ERASMUS

Erasmus performed his most important service as a Biblical critic. In 1516 A.D. he published
the New Testament in the original Greek, with a Latin translation and a dedication to the pope.
Up to this time the only accessible edition of the New Testament was the old Latin version
known as the Vulgate, which St. Jerome had made near the close of the fourth century. By preparing
a new and more accurate translation, Erasmus revealed the fact that the Vulgate contained many
errors. By printing the Greek text, together with notes which helped to make the meaning clear,
Erasmus enabled scholars to discover for themselves just what the New Testament writers had
actually said. [14]

HUMANISM AND THE REFORMATION

Erasmus as a student of the New Testament carried humanism over into the religious field. His
friends and associates, especially in Germany, continued his work. "We are all learning Greek
now," said Luther, "in order to understand the Bible." Humanism, by becoming the handmaid of
religion, thus passed insensibly into the Reformation.

THE ARTISTIC REVIVAL IN EUROPE

Italian architects found a cordial reception in France, Spain, the Netherlands, and other countries,
where they introduced Renaissance styles of building and ornamentation. The celebrated palace
of the Louvre in Paris, which is used to-day as an art gallery and museum, dates from the sixteenth
century. At this time the French nobles began to replace their somber feudal dwellings by elegant
country houses. Renaissance sculpture also spread beyond Italy throughout Europe. Painters
in northern countries at first followed Italian models, but afterwards produced masterpieces
of their own. [15]

214. THE RENAISSANCE IN LITERATURE

HUMANISM AND THE VERNACULAR

The renewed interest in classical studies for a time retarded the development of national languages
and literatures in Europe. To the humanists only Latin and Greek seemed worthy of notice. Petrarch,
for instance, composed in Italian beautiful sonnets which are still much admired, but he himself
expected to gain literary immortality through his Latin works. Another Italian humanist went
so far as to call Dante "a poet for bakers and cobblers," and the Divine Comedy was indeed
translated into Latin a few years after the author's death.

THE VERNACULAR REVIVAL

But a return to the vernacular was bound to come. The common people understood little Latin,
and Greek not at all. Yet they had learned to read and they now had the printing press. Before
long many books composed in Italian, Spanish, French, English, and other national languages
made their appearance. This revival of the vernacular meant that henceforth European literature
would be more creative and original than was possible when writers merely imitated or translated
the classics. The models provided by Greece and Rome still continued, however, to furnish inspiration
to men of letters.

MACHIAVELLI, 1469-1527 A.D.

The Florentine historian and diplomat, Machiavelli, by his book, The Prince, did much to found
the modern science of politics. Machiavelli, as a patriotic Italian, felt infinite distress
at the divided condition of Italy, where numerous petty states were constantly at war. In The
Prince he tried to show how a strong, despotic ruler might set up a national state in the peninsula.
He thought that such a ruler ought not to be bound by the ordinary rules of morality. He must
often act "against faith, against charity, against humanity, and against religion." The end
would justify the means. Success was everything; morality, nothing. This dangerous doctrine
has received the name of "Machiavellism"; it is not yet dead in European statecraft.

CERVANTES, 1547-1616 A.D.

Spain during the sixteenth century gave to the world in Cervantes the only Spanish writer who
has achieved a great reputation outside his own country. Cervantes's masterpiece, Don Quixote,
seems to have been intended as a burlesque upon the romances of chivalry once so popular in
Europe. The hero, Don Quixote, attended by his shrewd and faithful squire, Sancho Panza, rides
forth to perform deeds of knight-errantry, but meets, instead, the most absurd adventures.
The work is a vivid picture of Spanish life. Nobles, priests, monks, traders, farmers, innkeepers,
muleteers, barbers, beggars--all these pass before our eyes as in a panorama. Don Quixote immediately
became popular, and it is even more read to-day than it was three centuries ago.

FROISSART, 1397(?)-1410 A.D.

The Flemish writer, Froissart, deserves notice as a historian and as one of the founders of
French prose. His Chronicles present an account of the fourteenth century, when the age of
feudalism was fast drawing to an end. He admired chivalry and painted it in glowing colors.
He liked to describe tournaments, battles, sieges, and feats of arms. Kings and nobles, knights
and squires, are the actors on his stage. Froissart traveled in many countries and got much
of his information at first hand from those who had made history. Out of what he learned he
composed a picturesque and romantic story, which still captivates the imagination.

MONTAIGNE, 1533-1593 A.D.

A very different sort of writer was the Frenchman, Montaigne. He lives to- day as the author
of one hundred and seven essays, very delightful in style and full of wit and wisdom. Montaigne
really invented the essay, a form of literature in which he has had many imitators.

CHAUCER, 1340(?)-1400 A.D.

Geoffrey Chaucer, who has been called the "morning star" of the English Renaissance, was a
story-teller in verse. His Canterbury Tales are supposed to be told by a company of pilgrims,
as they journey from London to the shrine of Thomas Becket at Canterbury. [16] Chaucer describes
freshly and with unfailing good spirits the life of the middle and upper classes. He does not
reveal, any more than his contemporary Froissart, the labor and sorrows of the down-trodden
peasantry. But Chaucer was a true poet, and his name stands high in England's long roll of
men of letters.

SHAKESPEARE, 1564-1616 A.D.

This survey of the national authors of the Renaissance may fitly close with William Shakespeare,
whose genius transcended national boundaries and made him a citizen of all the world. His life
is known to us only in barest outline. Born at Stratford-on-Avon, of humble parentage, he attended
the village grammar school, where he learned "small Latin and less Greek", went to London as
a youth, and became an actor and a playwright. He prospered, made money both from his acting
and the sale of his plays, and at the age of forty-four retired to Stratford for the rest of
his life. Here he died eight years later, and here his grave may still be seen in the village
church. [17] During his residence in London he wrote, in whole or in part, thirty-six or thirty-seven
dramas, both tragedies and comedies. They were not collected and published until several years
after his death. Shakespeare's plays were read and praised by his contemporaries, but it has
remained for modern men to see in him one who ranks with Homer, Vergil, Dante, and Goethe among
the great poets of the world.

PERSONALITY IN RENAISSANCE LITERATURE

Renaissance poets and prose writers revealed themselves in their books. In the same way the
sculptors and painters of the Renaissance worked out their own ideas and emotions in their
masterpieces. This personal note affords a sharp contrast to the anonymity of the Middle Ages.
We do not know the authors of the Song of Roland, the Nibelungenlied, and Reynard the Fox,
any more than we know the builders of the Gothic cathedrals. Medieval literature subordinated
the individual; that of the Renaissance expressed the sense of individuality and man's interest
in himself. It was truly "humanistic."

215. THE RENAISSANCE IN EDUCATION

HUMANISM AND EDUCATION

The universities of the Middle Ages emphasized scholastic philosophy, though in some institutions
law and medicine also received much attention. Greek, of course, was not taught, the vernacular
languages of Europe were not studied, and neither science nor history enjoyed the esteem of
the learned. The Renaissance brought about a partial change in this curriculum. The classical
languages and literatures, after some opposition, gained an entrance into university courses
and displaced scholastic philosophy as the chief subject of instruction. From the universities
the study of the "humanities" descended to the lower schools, where they still hold a leading
place.

VITTORINO DA FELTRE, 1378-1446 A.D.

An Italian humanist, Vittorino da Feltre, was the pioneer of Renaissance education. In his
private school at Mantua, the "House of Delight," as it was called, Vittorino aimed to develop
at the same time the body, mind, and character of his pupils, so as to fit them to "serve God
in Church and State." Accordingly, he gave much attention to religious instruction and also
set a high value on athletics. The sixty or seventy young men under his care were taught to
hunt and fish, to run and jump, to wrestle and fence, to walk gracefully, and above all things
to be temperate. For intellectual training he depended on the Latin classics as the best means
of introducing students to the literature, art, and philosophy of ancient times. Vittorino's
name is not widely known to-day; he left no writings, preferring, as he said, to live in the
lives of his pupils; but there is scarcely a modern teacher who does not consciously or unconsciously
follow his methods. More than anyone else, he is responsible for the educational system which
has prevailed in Europe almost to the present day.

A "CLASSICAL EDUCATION"

It cannot be said that the influence of humanism on education was wholly good. Henceforth the
Greek and Latin languages and literatures became the chief instruments of culture. Educators
neglected the great world of nature and of human life which lay outside the writings of the
ancients. This "bookishness" formed a real defect of Renaissance systems of training.

COMENIUS, 1592-1671 A.D.

A Moravian bishop named Comenius, who gave his long life almost wholly to teaching, stands
for a reaction against humanistic education. He proposed that the vernacular tongues, as well
as the classics, should be made subjects of study. For this purpose he prepared a reading book,
which was translated into a dozen European languages, and even into Arabic, Persian, and Turkish.
Comenius also believed that the curriculum should include the study of geography, world history,
and government, and the practice of the manual arts. He was one of the first to advocate the
teaching of science. Perhaps his most notable idea was that of a national system of education,
reaching from primary grades to the university. "Not only," he writes, "are the children of
the rich and noble to be drawn to school, but all alike, rich and poor, boys and girls, in
great towns and small, down to the country villages." The influence of this Slavic teacher
is more and more felt in modern systems of education.

216. THE SCIENTIFIC RENAISSANCE

HUMANISM AND SCIENCE

The Middle Ages were not by any means ignorant of science, [18] but its study naturally received
a great impetus when the Renaissance brought before educated men all that the Greeks and Romans
had done in mathematics, physics, astronomy, medicine, and other subjects. The invention of
printing also fostered the scientific revival by making it easy to spread knowledge abroad
in every land. The pioneers of Renaissance science were Italians, but students in France, England,
Germany, and other countries soon took up the work of enlightenment.

COPERNICUS 1473-1543 A.D.

The names of some Renaissance scientists stand as landmarks in the history of thought. The
first place must be given to Copernicus, the founder of modern astronomy. He was a Pole, but
lived many years in Italy. Patient study and calculation led him to the conclusion that the
earth turns upon its own axis, and, together with the planets, revolves around the sun. The
book in which he announced this conclusion did not appear until the very end of his life. A
copy of it reached him on his deathbed.

THE COPERNICAN THEORY

Medieval astronomers had generally accepted the Ptolemaic system. [19] Some students before
Copernicus had indeed suggested that the earth and planets might rotate about a central sun,
but he first gave reasons for such a belief. The new theory met much opposition, not only in
the universities, which clung to the time-honored Ptolemaic system, but also among theologians,
who thought that it contradicted many statements in the Bible. Moreover, people could not easily
reconcile themselves to the idea that the earth, instead of being the center of the universe,
is only one member of the solar system, that it is, in fact, only a mere speck of cosmic dust.

GALILEO, 1564-1642 A.D.

An Italian scientist, Galileo, made one of the first telescopes--it was about as powerful as
an opera glass--and turned it on the heavenly bodies with wonderful results. He found the sun
moving unmistakably on its axis, Venus showing phases according to her position in relation
to the sun, Jupiter accompanied by revolving moons, or satellites, and the Milky Way composed
of a multitude of separate stars. Galileo rightly believed that these discoveries confirmed
the theory of Copernicus.

KEPLER, 1571-1630 A.D.

Another man of genius, the German Kepler, worked out the mathematical laws which govern the
movements of the planets. He made it clear that the planets revolve around sun in elliptical
instead of circular orbits. Kepler's investigations afterwards led to the discovery of the
principle of gravitation.

VESALIUS, 1514-1564 A.D., AND HARVEY, 1578-1657 A.D.

Two other scientists did epochal work in a field far removed from astronomy. Vesalius, a Fleming,
who studied in Italian medical schools, gave to the world the first careful description of
the human body based on actual dissection. He was thus the founder of human anatomy. Harvey,
an Englishman, after observing living animals, announced the discovery of the circulation of
the blood. He thereby founded human physiology.

THE SCIENTIFIC METHOD

Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler, Vesalius, Harvey, and their fellow workers built up the scientific
method. In the Middle Ages students had mostly been satisfied to accept what Aristotle and
other philosophers had said, without trying to prove their statements. [20] Kepler, for instance,
was the first to disprove the Aristotelian idea that, as all perfect motion is circular, therefore
the heavenly bodies must move in circular orbits. Similarly, the world had to wait many centuries
before Harvey showed Aristotle's error in supposing that the blood arose in the liver, went
thence to the heart, and by the veins was conducted over the body. The new scientific method
rested on observation and experiment. Students learned at length to take nothing for granted,
to set aside all authority, and to go straight to nature for their facts. As Lord Bacon, [21]
one of Shakespeare's contemporaries and a severe critic of the old scholasticism, declared,
"All depends on keeping the eye steadily fixed upon the facts of nature, and so receiving their
images simply as they are, for God forbid that we should give out a dream of our own imagination
for a pattern of the world." Modern science, to which we owe so much, is a product of the Renaissance.

217. THE ECONOMIC RENAISSANCE

AN ECONOMIC CHANGE

Thus far the Renaissance has been studied as an intellectual and artistic movement, which did
much to liberate the human mind and brought the Middle Ages to an end in literature, in art,
and in science. It is necessary, however, to consider the Renaissance era from another point
of view. During this time an economic change of vast significance was taking place in rural
life all over western Europe. We refer to the decline and ultimate extinction of medieval serfdom.

DECLINE OF SERFDOM

Serfdom imposed a burden only less heavy than the slavery which it had displaced. The serf,
as has been shown, [22] might not leave the manor in which he was born, he might not sell his
holdings of land, and, finally, he had to give up a large part of his time to work without
pay for the lord of the manor. This system of forced labor was at once unprofitable to the
lord and irksome to his serfs. After the revival of trade and industry in the twelfth and thirteenth
centuries had brought more money into circulation, [23] the lord discovered how much better
it was to hire men to work for him, as he needed them, instead of depending on serfs who shirked
their tasks as far as possible. The latter, in turn, were glad to pay the lord a fixed sum
for the use of land, since now they could devote themselves entirely to its cultivation. Both
parties gained by an arrangement which converted the manorial lord into a landlord and the
serf into a free tenant-farmer paying rent.

THE "BLACK DEATH"

The emancipation of the peasantry was hastened, strangely enough, as the result of perhaps
the most terrible calamity that has ever afflicted mankind. About the middle of the fourteenth
century a pestilence of Asiatic origin, now known to have been the bubonic plague, reached
the West. [24] The "Black Death" so called because among its symptoms were dark patches all
over the body, moved steadily across Europe. The way for its ravages had been prepared by the
unhealthful conditions of ventilation and drainage in towns and cities. After attacking Greece,
Sicily, Italy, Spain, France, and Germany, the plague entered England in 1349 A.D. and within
less than two years swept away probably half the population of that country. The mortality
elsewhere was enormous, one estimate setting it as high as twenty-five millions for all Europe.

EFFECTS OF THE "BLACK DEATH"

The pestilence in England, as in other countries, caused a great scarcity of labor. For want
of hands to bring in the harvest, crops rotted on the ground, while sheep and cattle, with
no one to care for them, strayed through the deserted fields. The free peasants who survived
demanded and received higher wages. Even the serfs, whose labor was now more valued, found
themselves in a better position. The lord of a manor, in order to keep his laborers, would
often allow them to substitute money payments for personal services. When the serfs got no
concessions, they frequently took to flight and hired themselves to the highest bidder.

FIRST STATUTE OF LABORERS, 1351 A.D.

The governing classes of England, who at this time were mainly landowners, believed that the
workers were taking an unfair advantage of the situation. So in 1351 A.D. Parliament passed
a law fixing the maximum wage in different occupations and punishing with imprisonment those
who refused to accept work when it was offered to them. The fact that Parliament had to reenact
this law thirteen times within the next century shows that it did not succeed in preventing
a general rise of wages. It only exasperated the working classes.

THE PEASANTS' REBELLION, 1381 A.D.

A few years after the first Statute of Laborers the restlessness and discontent among the masses
led to a serious outbreak. It was one of the few attempts at violent revolution which the English
working people have made. One of the inspirers of the rebellion was a wandering priest named
John Ball. He went about preaching that all goods should be held in common and the distinction
between lords and serfs wiped away. "When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?"
asked John Ball. Uprisings occurred in nearly every part of England, but the one in Kent had
most importance. The rioters marched on London and presented their demands to the youthful
king, Richard II. He promised to abolish serfdom and to give them a free pardon. As soon, however,
as Richard had gathered an army, he put down the revolt by force and hanged John Ball and about
a hundred of his followers.

THE JACQUERIE, 1358 A.D.

The rebellion in England may be compared with the far more terrible Jacquerie [25] in France,
a few years earlier. The French peasants, who suffered from feudal oppression and the effects
of the Hundred Years' War, raged through the land, burning the castles and murdering their
feudal lords. The movement had scarcely any reasonable purpose; it was an outburst of blind
passion. The nobles avenged themselves by slaughtering the peasants in great numbers.

EXTINCTION OF SERFDOM

Though these first great struggles of labor against capital were failures, the emancipation
of the peasantry went steadily on throughout the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. By 1500
A.D. serfdom had virtually disappeared in Italy, in most parts of France, and in England. Some
less- favored countries retained serfdom much longer. Prussian, Austrian, and Russian serfs
did not receive their freedom until the nineteenth century.

CONDITION OF THE PEASANTRY

The extinction of serfdom was, of course, a forward step in human freedom, but the lot of the
English and Continental peasantry long remained wretched. The poem of Piers Plowman, written
in the time of Chaucer, shows the misery of the age and reveals a very different picture than
that of the gay, holiday-making, merry England seen in the Canterbury Tales. One hundred and
fifty years later, the English humanist, Sir Thomas More, a friend of Erasmus, published his
Utopia as a protest against social abuses. Utopia, or "Nowhere," is an imaginary country whose
inhabitants choose their own rulers, hold all property in common, and work only nine hours
a day. In Utopia a public system of education prevails, cruel punishments are unknown, and
every one enjoys complete freedom to worship God. This remarkable book, though it pictures
an ideal commonwealth, really anticipates many social reforms of the present time.

STUDIES

1. Prepare a chronological chart showing the leading men of letters, artists, scientists, and
educators mentioned in this chapter.

2. For what were the following persons noted: Chrysoloras; Vittorino da Feltre; Gutenberg;
Boccaccio; Machiavelli; Harvey; and Galileo?

3. How did the words "machiavellism" and "utopian" get their present meanings?

4. Distinguish and define the three terms, "Renaissance," "Revival of Learning," and "Humanism."

5. Comment on this statement.

6. Why did the Renaissance begin as "an Italian event"?

7. "City-states have always proved favorable to culture." Illustrate this remark.

8. Why was the revival of Greek more important in the history of civilization than the revival
of Latin?

9. Show that printing was an "emancipating force."

10. With what paintings by the "old masters" are you familiar?

11. How does the opera differ from the oratorio?

12. Why has Froissart been styled the "French Herodotus"?

13. How many of Shakespeare's plays can you name? How many have you read?

14. Can you mention any of Shakespeare's plays which are founded on Italian stories or whose
scenes are laid in Italy?

15. Why did the classical scholar come to be regarded as the only educated man?

16. In what respects is the American system of education a realization of the ideals of Comenius?

17. Did the medieval interest in astrology retard or further astronomical research?

18. How did the discoveries of Galileo and Kepler confirm the Copernican theory?

19. What is meant by the "emancipation of the peasantry"?

[2] See page 545.

[3] See page 413.

[4] See page 604.

[5] Latin humanitas, from homo, "man."

[6] See page 560.

[7] A Latin word meaning "cradle" or "birthplace," and so the beginning of anything.

[8] See page 574.

[9] See the plate facing page 591.

[10] See the illustration, page 202.

[11] For instance, the Invalides in Paris, St. Paul's in London, and the Capitol at Washington.

[12] In this chapel the election of a new pope takes place.

[13] See page 336.

[14] The so-called Complutensian Polyglott, issued at Alcala in Spain by Cardinal Jimenes,
did even more for the advance of Biblical scholarship. This was the first printed text of the
Greek New Testament, but it was not actually published till 1522 A.D., six years after the
appearance of the edition by Erasmus.

[15] A list of the great European painters would include at least the following names: Durer
(1471-1582 A.D.) and Hans Holbein the Younger (1497-1543 A.D.) in Germany; Rubens (1577-1640
A.D.) and Van Dyck (1599- 1641 A.D.) in Flanders; Rembrandt (1606-1669 A.D.) in Holland; Claude
Lorraine (1600-1682 A.D.) in France; and Velasquez (1599-1660 A.D.) and Murillo (1617-1682
A.D.) in Spain.

[16] See the illustration, page 442.

[17] The three-hundredth anniversary of Shakespeare's death was appropriately observed in 1916
A.D. throughout the world.

[18] See page 572.

[19] See page 133.

[20] See page 571.

[21] Not to be confused with his countryman, Roger Bacon, who lived in the thirteenth century.
See page 573.

[22] See page 436.

[23] See page 541.

[24] A similar plague devastated the Roman world during the reign of Justinian.

[25] From Jacques, a common French name for a peasant.

CHAPTER XXVI

GEOGRAPHICAL DISCOVERY AND COLONIZATION [1]

218. MEDIEVAL GEOGRAPHY

THE GEOGRAPHICAL RENAISSANCE

There was also a geographical Renaissance. The revival of the exploring spirit led to the discovery
of ocean routes to the Far East and the Americas. In consequence, commerce was vastly stimulated,
and two continents, hitherto unknown, were opened up to civilization. The geographical Renaissance,
which gave man a New World, thus cooperated with the other movements of the age in bringing
about the transition from medieval to modern times.

MEDIEVAL IGNORANCE OF GEOGRAPHY

The Greeks and Romans had become familiar with a large part of Europe and Asia, but much of
their learning was either forgotten or perverted during the early Middle Ages. Even the wonderful
discoveries of the Northmen in the North Atlantic gradually faded from memory. The Arabs, whose
conquests and commerce extended over so much of the Orient, far surpassed the Christian peoples
of Europe in knowledge of the world.

GEOGRAPHICAL MYTHS

The alliance of medieval geography with theology led to curious results. Map makers, relying
on a passage in the Old Testament, [2] usually placed Jerusalem in the center of the world.
A Scriptural reference to the "four corners of the earth" [3] was sometimes thought to imply
the existence of a rectangular world. From classical sources came stories of monstrous men,
one-eyed, headless, or dog-headed, who were supposed to inhabit remote regions. Equally monstrous
animals, such as the unicorn and dragon, [4] kept them company. Sailors' "yarns" must have
been responsible for the belief that the ocean boiled at the equator and that in the Atlantic--the
"Sea of Darkness"--lurked serpents huge enough to sink ships. To the real danger of travel
by land and water people thus added imaginary terrors.

THE COSMAS MAP

Many maps prepared in the Middle Ages sum up the prevailing knowledge, or rather ignorance,
of the world. One of the earliest specimens that has come down to us was made in the sixth
century, by Cosmas, an Alexandrian monk. It exhibits the earth as a rectangle surrounded by
an ocean with four deep gulfs. Beyond this ocean lies another world, the seat of Paradise and
the place "where men dwelt before the Flood." The rivers which flow from the lakes of Paradise
are also shown. Figures holding trumpets represent the four winds.

THE HEREFORD MAP

A map made about seven hundred years later, and now preserved in Hereford Cathedral, shows
the earth as a circular disk with the ocean surrounding it. In the extreme east--that is, at
the top--lies Paradise, Jerusalem occupies the center, and below it comes the Mediterranean,
liberally supplied with islands. The Black Sea appears as a narrow body of water, and even
the British Isles are strangely distorted to fit the circle. Such a map could have been of
little use to travelers; it simply satisfied a natural curiosity about the wonders of the world.

OPENING UP OF ASIA

The crusades, more than anything else, first extended geographical knowledge. As a religious
movement they led to pilgrimages and missions in Oriental lands. With the pilgrims and missionaries
went hard-headed traders, who brought back to Europe the wealth of the East. The result, by
1300 A.D., was to open up countries beyond the Euphrates which had remained sealed to Europe
for centuries. This discovery of the interior of Asia had only less importance than that of
the New World two centuries later.

LEGEND OF PRESTER JOHN

What specially drew explorers eastward was the belief that somewhere in the center of Asia
existed a great Christian kingdom which, if allied to European Christendom, might attack the
Moslems from the rear. According to one form of the story the kingdom consisted of the Ten
Tribes of Israel, [5] who had been converted to Christianity by Nestorian missionaries. [6]
Over them reigned a priest-king named Prester (or Presbyter) John. The popes made several attempts
to communicate with this mythical ruler. In the thirteenth century, however, Franciscan friars
did penetrate to the heart of Asia. They returned to Europe with marvelous tales of the wealth
and splendor of the East under the Mongol emperors.

THE POLOS IN THE EAST, 1271-1295 A.D.

The most famous of all medieval travelers were Nicolo and Maffeo Polo, and Nicolo's son, Marco.
These Venetian merchants set out for Asia in 1271 A.D., and after an adventurous journey reached
the court of Kublai Khan at Peking. [7] The Mongol ruler, who seems to have been anxious to
introduce Christianity and European culture among his people, received them in a friendly manner,
and they amassed much wealth by trade. Marco entered the khan's service and went on several
expeditions to distant parts of the Mongol realm. Many years passed before Kublai would allow
his useful guests to return to Europe. They sailed at length from Zaitun, a Chinese seaport,
skirted the coast of southeastern Asia and India, and then made their way overland to the Mediterranean.
When the travelers reached Venice after an absence of twenty-four years, their relatives were
slow to recognize in them the long-lost Polos.

MARCO POLO'S BOOK

The story of the Polos, as written down at Marco's dictation, became one of the most popular
works of the Middle Ages. In this book Europe read of far Cathay (China), with its wealth,
its huge cities, and swarming population, of mysterious and secluded Tibet, of Burma, Siam,
and Cochin- China, with their palaces and pagodas, of the East Indies, famed for spices, of
Ceylon, abounding in pearls, and of India, little known since the days of Alexander the Great.
Even Cipango (Japan) Marco described from hearsay as an island whose people were white, civilized,
and so rich in gold that the royal palace was roofed and paved with that metal. The accounts
of these countries naturally made Europeans more eager than ever to reach the East.

219. AIDS TO EXPLORATION

THE COMPASS

The new knowledge gained by European peoples about the land routes of Asia was accompanied
by much progress in the art of ocean navigation. First in importance came the compass to guide
explorers across the waters of the world. The Chinese appear to have discovered that a needle,
when rubbed with a lodestone, has the mysterious power of pointing to the north. The Arabs
may have introduced this rude form of the compass among Mediterranean sailors. The instrument,
improved by being balanced on a pivot so that it would not be affected by choppy seas, seems
to have been generally used by Europeans as early as the thirteenth century. It greatly aided
sailors by enabling them to find their bearings in murky weather and on starless nights. The
compass, though useful, was not indispensable; without its help the Northmen had made their
distant expeditions in the Atlantic.

NAUTICAL INSTRUMENTS

The astrolabe, which the Greeks had invented and used for astronomical purposes, also came
into Europe through the Arabs. It was employed to calculate latitudes by observation of the
height of the sun above the horizon. Other instruments that found a place on shipboard were
the hour- glass, minute-glass, and sun-dial. A rude form of the log was used as a means of
estimating the speed of a vessel, and so of finding roughly the longitude.

OTHER IMPROVEMENTS IN NAVIGATION

During the last centuries of the Middle Ages the charting of coasts became a science. A sailor
might rely on the "handy maps" (portolani) which outlined with some approach to accuracy the
bays, islands, and headlands of the Mediterranean and adjacent waters. Manuals were prepared
telling the manner about the tides, currents, and other features of the route he intended to
follow. The increase in size of ships made navigation safer and permitted the storage of bulky
cargoes. For long voyages the sailing vessel replaced the medieval galley rowed by oars. As
the result of all these improvements navigators no longer found it necessary to keep close
to the shore, but could push out dauntlessly into the open sea.

MOTIVES FOR EXPLORATION

Many motives prompted exploration. Scientific curiosity, bred of the Renaissance spirit of
free inquiry, led men to set forth on voyages of discovery. The crusading spirit, which had
not died out in Europe, thrilled at the thought of spreading Christianity among heathen peoples.
And in this age, as in all epochs of exploration, adventurers sought in distant lands opportunities
to acquire wealth and fame and power.

THE COMMERCIAL MOTIVE

Commerce formed perhaps the most powerful motive for exploration. Eastern spices--cinnamon,
pepper, cloves, nutmeg, and ginger--were used more freely in medieval times than now, when
people lived on salt meat during the winter and salt fish during Lent. Even wine, ale, and
medicines had a seasoning of spices. When John Ball [8] wished to contrast the easy life of
the lords with the peasants' hard lot, he said, "They have wines, spices, and fine bread, while
we have only rye and the refuse of the straw." [9] Besides spices, all kinds of precious stones,
drugs, perfumes, gums, dyes, and fragrant woods came from the East. Since the time of the crusades
these luxuries, after having been brought overland by water to Mediterranean ports, had been
distributed by Venetian and Genoese merchants throughout Europe. [10] But now in the fifteenth
century two other European peoples--the Portuguese and Spaniards--appeared as competitors for
this Oriental trade. Their efforts to break through the monopoly enjoyed by the Italian cities
led to the discovery of the sea routes to the Indies. The Portuguese were first in the field.

220. TO THE INDIES EASTWARD: PRINCE HENRY AND DA GAMA

PRINCE HENRY THE NAVIGATOR, 1394-1460 A.D.

In the history of the fifteenth century few names rank higher than that of Prince Henry, commonly
called the Navigator, because of his services to the cause of exploration. The son of a Portuguese
king, he devoted himself during more than forty years to organizing scientific discovery. Under
his direction better maps were made, the astrolabe was improved, the compass was placed on
vessels, and seamen were instructed in all the nautical learning of the time. The problem which
Prince Henry studied and which Portuguese sailors finally solved was the possibility of a maritime
route around Africa to the Indies.

EXPLORATION OF THE AFRICAN COAST

The expeditions sent out by Prince Henry began by rediscovering the Madeira and Azores Islands,
first visited by Europeans in the fourteenth century. Then the Portuguese turned southward
along the unchartered African coast. In 1445 A.D. they got as far as Cape Verde, or "Green
Cape," so called because of its luxuriant vegetation. The discovery was important, for it disposed
of the idea that the Sahara desert extended indefinitely to the south. Sierra Leone, which
the Carthaginian Hanno [11] had probably visited, was reached in 1462 A.D., two years after
Prince Henry's death. Soon Portuguese sailors found the great bend of the African coast formed
by the gulf of Guinea. In 1471 A.D. they crossed the equator, without the scorching that some
had feared. In 1482 A.D. they were at the mouth of the Congo. Six years later Bartholomew Diaz
rounded the southern extremity of Africa. The story goes that he named it the Cape of Storms,
and that the king of Portugal, recognizing its importance as a stage on the route to the East,
rechristened it the Cape of Good Hope.

DA GAMA'S VOYAGE, 1497-1499 A.D.

A daring mariner, Vasco da Gama, opened the sea-gates to the Indies. With four tiny ships he
set sail from Lisbon in July, 1497 A.D., and after leaving the Cape Verde Islands made a wide
sweep into the South Atlantic. Five months passed before Africa was seen again. Having doubled
the Cape of Good Hope in safety, Da Gama skirted the eastern shores of Africa and at length
secured the services of a Moslem pilot to guide him across the Indian Ocean. In May, 1498 A.D.,
he reached Calicut, [12] an important commercial city on the southwest coast of India. When
Da Gama returned to Lisbon, after an absence of over two years, he brought back a cargo which
repaid sixty times the cost of the expedition. The Portuguese king received him with high honor
and created him Admiral of the Indies.

CAMOENS, 1524-1580 A.D., AND THE LUSIADS

The story of Da Gama's memorable voyage was sung by the Portuguese poet, Camoens, in the Lusiads.
It is the most successful of all modern epics. The popularity of the Lusiads has done much
to keep alive the sense of nationality among the Portuguese, and even to-day it forms a bond
of union between Portugal and her daughter-nation across the Atlantic--Brazil.

SIGNIFICANCE OF THE MARITIME ROUTE

The discovery of an ocean passage to the East came at the right moment. Just at this time the
Ottoman Turks were beginning to block up the old trade routes. [13] Their conquests in Asia
Minor and southeastern Europe, during the fifteenth century, shut out the Italians from the
northern route through the Aegean and the Black Sea. After Syria and Egypt were conquered,
early in the sixteenth century, the central and southern routes also passed under Turkish control.
The Ottoman advance struck a mortal blow at the prosperity of the Italian cities, which had
so long monopolized Oriental trade. But the misfortune of Venice and Genoa was the opportunity
of Portugal.

221. THE PORTUGUESE COLONIAL EMPIRE

PORTUGUESE ASCENDANCY IN THE EAST

After Da Gama's voyage the Portuguese made haste to appropriate the wealth of the Indies. Fleet
after fleet was sent out to establish trading stations upon the coasts of Africa and Asia.
The great viceroy, Albuquerque, captured the city of Goa and made it the center of the Portuguese
dominions in India. Goa still belongs to Portugal. Albuquerque also seized Malacca, at the
end of the Malay Peninsula, and Ormuz, at the entrance to the Persian Gulf. The possession
of these strategic points enabled the Portuguese to control the commerce of the Indian Ocean.
They also established trading relations with China, through the port of Macao, and with Japan,
which was accidentally discovered in 1542 A.D. By the middle of the sixteenth century they
had acquired almost complete ascendancy throughout southern Asia and the adjacent islands. [14]

PORTUGUESE TRADE MONOPOLY

The Portuguese came to the East as the successors of the Arabs, who for centuries had carried
on an extensive trade in the Indian Ocean. Having dispossessed the Arabs, the Portuguese took
care to shut out all European trade competitors. Only their own merchants were allowed to bring
goods from the Indies to Europe by the Cape route. For a time this policy made Portugal very
prosperous. Lisbon, the capital, formed the chief depot for spices and other eastern commodities.
The French, English, and Dutch came there to buy them and took the place of Italian merchants
in distributing them throughout Europe.

COLLAPSE OF THE PORTUGUESE EMPIRE

But the triumph of Portugal was short-lived. This small country, with a population of not more
than a million, lacked the strength to defend her claims to a monopoly of the Oriental trade.
During the seventeenth century the French and English broke the power of the Portuguese in
India, while the Dutch drove them from Ceylon and the East Indies. Though the Portuguese lost
most of their possessions so soon, they deserve a tribute of admiration for the energy, enthusiasm,
and real heroism with which they built up the first of modern colonial empires.

EUROPE IN ASIA

The new world in the East, thus entered by the Portuguese and later by other European peoples,
was really an old world--rich, populous, and civilized. It held out alluring possibilities,
not only for trade, but also as a field for missionary enterprise. Da Gama and Albuquerque
began a movement, which still continues, to "westernize" Asia by opening it up to European
influence. It remains to be seen, however, whether India, China, and Japan will allow their
ancient culture to be extinguished by that of Europe.

222. TO THE INDIES WESTWARD: COLUMBUS AND MAGELLAN

THE GLOBULAR THEORY

Six years before Vasco da Gama cast anchor in the harbor of Calicut, another intrepid sailor,
seeking the Indies by a western route, accidentally discovered America. It does not detract
from the glory of Columbus to show that the way for his discovery had been long in preparation.
In the first place, the theory that the earth was round had been familiar to the Greeks and
Romans, and to some learned men even in the darkest period of the Middle Ages. By the opening
of the thirteenth century it must have been commonly known, for Roger Bacon [15] refers to
it, and Dante, in the Divine Comedy, [16] plans his Inferno on the supposition of a spherical
world. The awakening of interest in Greek science, as a result of the Renaissance, naturally
called renewed attention to the statements by ancient geographers. Eratosthenes, [17] for instance,
had clearly recognized the possibility of reaching India by sailing westward on the same parallel
of latitude. Especially after the revival of Ptolemy's [18] works in the fifteenth century,
scholars accepted the globular theory; and they even went so far as to calculate the circumference
of the earth.

MYTH OF ATLANTIS

In the second place, men had long believed that west of Europe, beyond the strait of Gibraltar,
lay mysterious lands. This notion first appears in the writings of the Greek philosopher, Plato,
[19] who repeats an old tradition concerning Atlantis. According to Plato, Atlantis had been
an island continental in size, but more than nine thousand years before his time it had sunk
beneath the sea. Medieval writers accepted this account as true and found support for it in
traditions of other western islands, such as the Isles of the Blest, where Greek heroes went
after death, and the Welsh Avalon, whither King Arthur, [20] after his last battle, was borne
to heal his wounds. A widespread legend of the Middle Ages also described the visit made by
St. Brandan, an Irish monk, to the "promised land of the Saints," an earthly paradise far out
in the Atlantic. St. Brandan's Island was marked on early maps, and voyages in search of it
were sometimes undertaken.

BEHAIM'S GLOBE

The ideas of European geographers in the period just preceding the discovery of America are
represented on a map, or rather a globe, which dates from 1492 A.D. It was made by a German
navigator, Martin Behaim, for his native city of Nuremberg, where it is still preserved. Behaim
shows the mythical island of St. Brandan, lying in mid-ocean, and beyond it Japan (Cipango)
and the East Indies. It is clear that he greatly underestimated the distance westward between
Europe and Asia. The error was natural enough, for Ptolemy had reckoned the earth's circumference
to be about one-sixth less than it is, and Marco Polo had given an exaggerated idea of the
distance to which Asia extended on the east. When Columbus set out on his voyage, he firmly
believed that a journey of four thousand miles would bring him to Cipango.

COLUMBUS, 1446(?)-1506 A.D.

Christopher Columbus was a native of Genoa, where his father followed the humble trade of a
weaver. He seems to have obtained some knowledge of astronomy and geography as a student in
the university of Pavia, but at an early age he became a sailor. Columbus knew the Mediterranean
by heart; he once went to the Guinea coast; and he may have visited Iceland. He settled at
Lisbon as a map-maker and married a daughter of one of Prince Henry's sea-captains. As Columbus
pored over his maps and charts and talked with seamen about their voyages, the idea came to
him that much of the world remained undiscovered and that the distant East could be reached
by a shorter route than that which led around Africa.

RESEARCHES OF COLUMBUS

Columbus was a well-read man, and in Aristotle, Ptolemy, and other ancient authorities he found
apparent confirmation of his grand idea. Columbus also owned a printed copy of Marco Polo's
book, and from his comments, written on the margin, we know how interested he was in Polo's
statements referring to Cathay and Cipango. Furthermore, Columbus brought together all the
information he could get about the fabled islands of the Atlantic. If he ever went to Iceland,
some vague traditions may have reached him there of Norse voyages to Greenland and Vinland.
Such hints and rumors strengthened his purpose to sail toward the setting sun in quest of the
Indies.

FIRST VOYAGE OF COLUMBUS, 1492 A.D.

All know the story. How Columbus first laid his plans before the king of Portugal, only to
meet with rebuffs; how he then went to Spain and after many discouragements found a patron
in Queen Isabella; how with three small ships he set out from Palos, August 3, 1492 A.D.; how
after leaving the Canaries he sailed week after week over an unknown sea; and how at last,
on the early morning of October 12, he sighted in the moonlight the glittering coral strand
of one of the Bahama Islands. [21] It was the New World.

SUBSEQUENT VOYAGES OF COLUMBUS

Columbus made three other voyages to the New World, in the course of which he explored the
Caribbean Sea, the mouth of the Orinoco River, and the eastern coast of Central America. He
lived and died in the belief that he had actually reached the mainland of Asia and the realms
of the Great Khan of Cathay. The name West Indies still remains as a testimony to this error.

NAMING OF AMERICA

The New World was named for a Florentine navigator, Amerigo Vespucci. [22] While in the Spanish
service he made several western voyages and printed an account of his discovery of the mainland
of America in 1497 A.D. Scholars now generally reject his statements, but they found acceptance
at the time, and it was soon suggested that the new continent should be called America, "because
Americus discovered it." The name applied at first only to South America. After it became certain
that South America joined another continent to the north, the name spread over the whole New World.

THE DEMARCATION LINE, 1493 A.D.

Shortly after the return of Columbus from his first voyage, Pope Alexander VI, in response
to a request by Ferdinand and Isabella, issued a bull granting these sovereigns exclusive rights
over the newly discovered lands. In order that the Spanish possessions should be clearly marked
off from the Portuguese, the pope laid down an imaginary line of demarcation in the Atlantic,
three hundred miles west of the Azores. All new discoveries west of the line were to belong
to Spain; all those east of it, to Portugal. [23] But this arrangement, which excluded France,
England, and other European countries from the New World, could not be long maintained.

FERDINAND MAGELLAN, 1480(?)-1521 A.D.

The demarcation line had a good deal to do in bringing about the first voyage around the globe.
So far no one had yet realized the dream of Columbus to reach the lands of spice and silk by
sailing westward. Ferdinand Magellan, formerly one of Albuquerque's lieutenants but now in
the service of Spain, believed that the Spice Islands lay within the Spanish sphere of influence
and that an all-Spanish route, leading to them through some strait at the southern end of South
America, could be discovered.

CIRCUMNAVIGATION OF THE GLOBE, 1519-1522 A.D.

The Spanish ruler, Charles V, grandson of the Isabella who had supported Columbus, looked with
favor upon Magellan's ideas and gave him a fleet of five vessels for the undertaking. After
exploring the east coast of South America, Magellan came at length to the strait which bears
his name. Through this channel he sailed boldly and found himself upon an ocean which he called
the Pacific, because of its peaceful aspect. Magellan's sailors now begged him to return, for
food was getting scarce, but the navigator replied that he would go on, "if he had to eat the
leather off the rigging." He did go on, for ninety-eight days, until he reached the Ladrone
Islands. [24] By a curious chance, in all this long trip across the Pacific, Magellan came
upon only two islands, both of them uninhabited. He then proceeded to the Philippines, where
he was killed in a fight with the natives. His men, however, managed to reach the Spice Islands,
the goal of the journey. Afterwards a single ship, the Victoria, carried back to Spain the
few sailors who had survived the hardships of a voyage lasting nearly three years.

MEANING OF THE CIRCUMNAVIGATION
 Magellan's voyage forms a landmark in the history of geography. It proved
that America, at least on the south, had no connection with Asia; it
showed the enormous extent of the Pacific Ocean; and it led to the
discovery of many large islands in the East Indies. Henceforth men knew of
a certainty that the earth was round and in the distance covered by
Magellan they had a rough estimate of its size. The circumnavigation of
the globe ranks with the discovery of America among the most significant
events in history. In the company of great explorers Magellan stands
beside Columbus.

223. THE INDIANS

PEOPLING OF AMERICA

The first inhabitants of America probably came from the Old World. At a remote epoch a land-bridge
connected northwest Europe with Greenland, and Iceland still remains a witness to its former
existence. Over this bridge animals and men may have found their way into the New World. Another
prehistoric route may have led from Asia. Only a narrow strait now separates Alaska from Siberia,
and the Aleutian Islands form an almost complete series of stepping-stones across the most
northerly part of the Pacific.

THE AMERICAN ABORIGINES

The natives of America, whom Columbus called Indians, certainly resemble Asiatics in some physical
features, such as the reddish-brown complexion, the hair, uniformly black and lank, the high
cheek-bones, and short stature of many tribes. On the other hand, the large, aquiline nose,
the straight eyes, never oblique, and the tall stature of some tribes are European traits.
It seems safe to conclude that the American aborigines, whatever their origin, became thoroughly
fused into a composite race during long centuries of isolation from the rest of mankind.

INDIAN CULTURE

Because of their isolation the Indians had to work out by themselves many arts, inventions,
and discoveries. They spoke over a thousand languages and dialects; and not one has yet been
traced outside of America. Their implements consisted of polished stone, occasionally of unsmelted
copper, and in Mexico and Peru, of bronze. They cultivated Indian corn, or maize, but lacked
the other great cereals. They domesticated the dog and the llama of the Andes. They lived in
clans and tribes, ruled by headmen or chiefs. Their religion probably did not involve a belief
in a "Great Spirit," as is so often said, but rather recognized in all nature the abode of
spiritual powers, mysterious and wonderful, whom man ought to conciliate by prayers and sacrifices.
In short, most of the American Indians were not savages, but barbarians well advanced in culture.

THE MAYAS

Indian culture attained its highest development in Mexico and Central America, especially among
the Mayas of Yucatan, Guatemala, and Honduras. The remains of their cities--the Ninevehs and
Babylons of the New World-- lie buried in the tropical jungle, where Europeans first saw them,
four hundred years ago. The temples, shrines, altars, and statues in these ancient cities show
that the Mayas had made much progress in the fine arts. They knew enough astronomy to frame
a solar calendar of three hundred and sixty-five days, and enough mathematics to employ numbers
exceeding a million. The writing of the Mayas had reached the rebus [25] stage and promised
to become alphabetic. When their hieroglyphics have been completely deciphered, we shall learn
much more about this gifted people.

THE AZTECS

Several centuries before the arrival of Europeans in America, the so- called Aztecs came down
from the north and established themselves on the Mexican plateau. Here they formed a confederacy
of many tribes, ruled over by a sort of king, whose capital was Tenochtitlan, on the site of
the present city of Mexico.

AZTEC CULTURE

The Aztecs appear to have borrowed much of their art, science, and knowledge of writing from
their Maya neighbors. They built houses and temples of stone or sundried brick, constructed
aqueducts, roads, and bridges, excelled in the dyeing, weaving, and spinning of cotton, and
made most beautiful ornaments of silver and gold. They worshiped many gods, to which the priests
offered prisoners of war as human sacrifices. In spite of these bloody rites, the Aztecs were
a kind-hearted, honest people, respectful of the rights of property, brave in battle, and obedient
to their native rulers. Aztec culture in some ways was scarcely inferior to that of the ancient
Egyptians.

THE INCAS

The lofty table-lands of the Andes were also the seat of an advanced Indian culture. At the
time of the Spanish conquest the greater part of what is now Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, and northern
Chile had come under the sway of the Incas, the "people of the sun". The Inca power centered
in the Peruvian city of Cuzco and on the shores of Lake Titicaca, which lies twelve thousand
feet above sea-level. In this region of magnificent scenery the traveler views with astonishment
the ruins of vast edifices, apparently never completed, which were raised either by the Incas
or the Indians whom they conquered and displaced. Though the culture of the Incas resembled
in many ways that of the Aztecs, the two peoples probably never had any intercourse and hence
remained totally unaware of each other's existence.

224. SPANISH EXPLORATIONS AND CONQUESTS IN AMERICA

OBJECTS OF THE SPANIARDS

The discoverers of the New World were naturally the pioneers in its exploration. The first
object of the Spaniards had been trade with the Indies, and for a number of years, until Magellan's
voyage, they sought vainly for a passage through the mainland to the Spice Islands. When, however,
the Spaniards learned that America was rich in deposits of gold and silver, these metals formed
the principal objects of their expeditions.

PONCE DE LEON AND BALBOA, 1513 A.D.

The Spaniards at first had confined their settlements to the Greater Antilles in the West Indies,
[26] but after the gold of these islands was exhausted, they began to penetrate the mainland.
In 1513 A.D. Ponce de Leon, who had been with Columbus on his second voyage, discovered the
country which he named Florida. It became the first Spanish possession in North America. In
the same year Vasco Nunez de Balboa, from the isthmus of Panama, sighted the Pacific. He entered
its waters, sword in hand, and took formal possession in the name of the king of Spain.

CONQUEST OF MEXICO 1519-1521 A.D. AND PERU 1531-1537 A.D.

The overthrow of the Aztec power was accomplished by Hernando Cortes, with the aid of Indian
allies. Many large towns and half a thousand villages, together with immense quantities of
treasure, fell into the hands of the conquerors. Henceforth Mexico, or "New Spain," became
the most important Spanish possession in America. Francisco Pizarro, who invaded Peru with
a handful of soldiers, succeeded in overthrowing the Incas. Pizarro founded in Peru the city
of Lima. It replaced Cuzco as the capital of the country and formed the seat of the Spanish
government in South America.

EL DORADO

The Spaniards, during the earlier part of the sixteenth century, heard much of a fabled king
whom they called El Dorado. [27] This king, it was said, used to smear himself with gold dust
at an annual religious ceremony. In time the idea arose that somewhere in South America existed
a fabled country marvelously rich in precious metals and gems. These stories stirred the imagination
of the Spaniards, who fitted out many expeditions to find the gilded man and his gilded realm.
The quest for El Dorado opened up the valleys of the Amazon and Orinoco and the extensive forest
region east of the Andes. Spanish explorers also tried to find El Dorado in North America.
De Soto's expedition led to the discovery of the Mississippi in 1541 A.D., and Coronado's search
for the "Seven Cities of Cibola" not only added greatly to geographical knowledge of the Southwest,
but also resulted in the extension of Spanish dominion over this part of the American continent.
About 1605 A.D. the Spaniards founded Santa Fe and made it the capital of their government
in New Mexico.

       *       *       *       *       *

225. THE SPANISH COLONIAL EMPIRE

SPAIN IN THE NEW WORLD

The wonderful exploits of the conquistadores (conquerors) laid the foundations of the Spanish
colonial empire. It included Florida, New Mexico, California, Mexico, Central America, the
West Indies, and all South America except Brazil. [28] The rule of Spain over these dominions
lasted nearly three hundred years. During this time she gave her language, her government,
and her religion to half the New World.

INTERMARRIAGE OF SPANIARDS AND INDIANS

The Spaniards brought few women with them and hence had to find their wives among the Indians.
Intermarriage of the two peoples early became common. The result was the mixed race which one
still finds throughout the greater part of Spanish America. In this race the Indian strain
predominates, because almost everywhere the aborigines were far more numerous than the white
settlers.

TREATMENT OF THE INDIANS

The Spaniards treated the Indians of the West Indies most harshly and forced them to work in
gold mines and on sugar plantations. The hard labor, to which the Indians were unaccustomed,
broke down their health, and almost the entire native population disappeared within a few years
after the coming of the whites. This terrible tragedy was not repeated on the mainland, for
the Spanish government stepped in to preserve the aborigines from destruction. It prohibited
their enslavement and gave them the protection of humane laws. Though these laws were not always
well enforced, the Indians of Mexico and Peru increased in numbers under Spanish rule and often
became prosperous traders, farmers, and artisans.

CONVERSION OF THE INDIANS

The Spaniards succeeded in winning many of the Indians to Christianity. Devoted monks penetrated
deep into the wilderness and brought to the aborigines, not only the Christian religion, but
also European civilization. In many places the natives were gathered into permanent villages,
or "missions," each one with its church and school. Converts who learned to read and write
often became priests or entered the monastic orders. The monks also took much interest in the
material welfare of the Indians and taught them how to farm, how to build houses, and how to
spin and weave and cook by better methods than their own.

THE CALIFORNIA MISSIONS

The most familiar examples of the Spanish missions are those in the state of California. During
the last quarter of the eighteenth century Franciscan friars missions erected no less than
eighteen mission stations along the Pacific coast from San Diego to San Francisco. The stations
were connected by the "King's Road" [29] which still remains the principal highway of the state.
Some of the mission buildings now lie in ruins and others have entirely disappeared. But such
a well-preserved structure as the mission of Santa Barbara recalls a Benedictine monastery,
[30] with its shady cloisters, secluded courtyard, and timbered roof covered with red tiles.
It is a bit of the Old World transplanted to the New.

SPANISH AMERICAN CIVILIZATION

The civilizing work of Spain in the New World is sometimes forgotten. Here were the earliest
American hospitals and asylums, for the use of Indians and negroes as well as of Spaniards.
Here were the earliest American schools and colleges. Twelve institutions of higher learning,
all modeled upon the university of Salamanca, arose in Spanish America during the colonial
period. Eight of these came into existence before the creation in 1636 A.D. of Harvard University,
the oldest in the United States. The pioneer printing press in the Western Hemisphere was set
up at Mexico City in 1535 A.D.; no printing press reached the English colonies till more than
one hundred years later. To the valuable books by Spanish scholars we owe much of our knowledge
of the Mayas, Aztecs, and other Indian tribes. The first American newspaper was published at
Mexico City in 1693 A.D. The fine arts also flourished in the Spanish colonies, and architects
of the United States have now begun to copy the beautiful churches and public buildings of
Mexico and Peru.

SPANISH COLONIAL POLICY

The government of Spain administered its colonial dominions in the spirit of monopoly. As far
as possible it excluded French, English, and other foreigners from trading with Spanish America.
It also discouraged ship- building, manufacturing, and even the cultivation of the vine and
the olive, lest the colonists should compete with home industries. The colonies were regarded
only as a workshop for the production of the precious metals and raw materials. This unwise
policy very largely accounts for the economic backwardness of Mexico, Peru, and other Spanish-
American countries at the present day. Their rich natural resources have as yet scarcely begun
to be utilized.

226. ENGLISH AND FRENCH EXPLORATIONS IN AMERICA

THE CABOT VOYAGES, 1497-1498 A.D.

The English based their claim to the right to colonize North America on the discoveries of
John Cabot, an Italian mariner in the service of the Tudor king, Henry VII. [31] In 1497 A.D.
Cabot sailed from Bristol across the northern Atlantic and made land somewhere between Labrador
and Nova Scotia. The following year he seems to have undertaken a second voyage and to have
explored the coast of North America nearly as far as Florida. Cabot, like Columbus, believed
he had reached Cathay and the dominions of the Great Khan. Because Cabot found neither gold
nor opportunities for profitable trade, his expeditions were considered a failure, and for
a long time the English took no further interest in exploring the New World.

CARTIER'S VOYAGES, 1534-1542 A.D.

The discovery by Magellan of a strait leading into the Pacific aroused hope that a similar
passage, beyond the regions controlled by Spain, might exist in North America. In 1534 A.D.
the French king, Francis I, sent Jacques Cartier to look for it. Cartier found the gulf and
river which he named after St. Lawrence, and also tried to establish a settlement near where
Quebec now stands. The venture was not successful, and the French did not undertake the colonization
of Canada till the first decade of the seventeenth century.

THE NORTHWEST PASSAGE

English sailors also sought a road to India by the so-called Northwest Passage. It was soon
found to be an impossible route, for during half the year the seas were frozen and during the
other half they were filled with icebergs. However, the search for the Northwest Passage added
much to geographical knowledge. The names Frobisher Bay, Davis Strait, and Baffin Land still
preserve the memory of the navigators who first explored the channels leading into the Arctic
Ocean.

THE ENGLISH "SEA DOGS"

When the English realized how little profit was to be gained by voyages to the cold and desolate
north, they turned southward to warmer waters. Here, of course, they came upon the Spaniards,
who had no disposition to share with foreigners the profitable trade of the New World. Though
England and Spain were not at war, the English "sea dogs," as they called themselves, did not
scruple to ravage the Spanish colonies and to capture the huge, clumsy treasure-ships carrying
gold and silver to Spain. The most famous of the "sea dogs," Sir Francis Drake, was the first
Englishman to sail round the world (1577-1580 A.D.).

THE RALEIGH COLONIES, 1584-1590 A.D.

Four years after Drake had completed his voyage, another English seaman, Sir Walter Raleigh,
sent out an expedition to find a good site for a settlement in North America. The explorers
reached the coast of North Carolina and returned with glowing accounts of the country, which
was named Virginia, in honor of Elizabeth, the "Virgin Queen." But Raleigh's colonies in Virginia
failed miserably, and the English made no further attempt to settle there till the reign of
James I, early in the seventeenth century.

227. THE OLD WORLD AND THE NEW

EXPANSION OF EUROPE

The New World contained two virgin continents, full of natural resources and capable in a high
degree of colonization. The native peoples, comparatively few in number and barbarian in culture,
could not offer much resistance to the explorers, missionaries, traders, and colonists from
the Old World. The Spanish and Portuguese in the sixteenth century, followed by the French,
English, and Dutch in the seventeenth century, repeopled America and brought to it European
civilization. Europe expanded into a Greater Europe beyond the ocean.

SHIFTING OF TRADE ROUTES

In the Middle Ages the Mediterranean and the Baltic had been the principal highways of commerce.
The discovery of America, followed immediately by the opening of the Cape route to the Indies,
shifted commercial activity from these enclosed seas to the Atlantic Ocean. Venice, Genoa,
Hamburg, Luebeck, and Bruges gradually gave way, as trading centers, to Lisbon and Cadiz, Bordeaux
and Cherbourg, Antwerp and Amsterdam, London and Liverpool. One may say, therefore, that the
year 1492 A.D. inaugurated the Atlantic period of European history. The time may come, perhaps
even now it is dawning, when the center of gravity of the commercial world will shift still
farther westward to the Pacific.

INCREASED PRODUCTION OF THE PRECIOUS METALS

The discovery of America revealed to Europeans a new source of the precious metals. The Spaniards
soon secured large quantities of gold by plundering the Indians of Mexico and Peru of their
stored-up wealth. After the discovery in 1545 A.D. of the wonderfully rich silver mines of
Potosi in Bolivia, the output of silver much exceeded that of gold. It is estimated that by
the end of the sixteenth century the American mines had produced at least three times as much
gold and silver as had been current in Europe at the beginning of the century.

CONSEQUENCES OF THE ENLARGED MONEY SUPPLY

The Spaniards could not keep this new treasure. Having few industries themselves, they were
obliged to send it out, as fast as they received it, in payment for their imports of European
goods. Spain acted as a huge sieve through which the gold and silver of America entered all
the countries of Europe. Money, now more plentiful, purchased far less than in former times;
in other words, the prices of all commodities rose, wages advanced, and manufacturers and traders
had additional capital to use in their undertakings. The Middle Ages had suffered from the
lack of sufficient money with which to do business; [32] from the beginning of modern times
the world has been better supplied with the indispensable medium of exchange.

NEW COMMODITIES IMPORTED

But America was much more than a treasury of the precious metals. Many commodities, hitherto
unknown, soon found their way from the New World to the Old. Among these were maize, the potato,
which, when cultivated in Europe, became the "bread of the poor," chocolate and cocoa made
from the seeds of the cacao tree, Peruvian bark, or quinine, so useful in malarial fevers,
cochineal, the dye-woods of Brazil, and the mahogany of the West Indies. America also sent
large supplies of cane-sugar, molasses, fish, whale-oil, and furs. The use of tobacco, which
Columbus first observed among the Indians, spread rapidly over Europe and thence extended to
the rest of the world. All these new American products became common articles of consumption
and so raised the standard of living in European countries.

POLITICAL EFFECTS OF THE DISCOVERIES

To the economic effects of the discoveries must be added their effects on politics. The Atlantic
Ocean now formed, not only the commercial, but also the political center of the world. The
Atlantic-facing countries, first Portugal and Spain, then Holland, France, and England, became
the great powers of Europe. Their trade rivalries and contests for colonial possessions have
been potent causes of European wars for the last four hundred years.

EFFECTS OF THE DISCOVERIES ON THOUGHT

The sudden disclosure of oceans, islands, and continents, covering one- third of the globe,
worked a revolution in geographical ideas. The earth was found to be far larger than men had
supposed it to be, and the imagination was stirred by the thought of other amazing discoveries
which might be made. From the sixteenth century to the twentieth the work of exploration has
continued, till now few regions of the world yet remain unmapped. At the same time came acquaintance
with many strange plants, animals, and peoples, and so scientific knowledge replaced the quaint
fancies of the Middle Ages.

EFFECTS OF THE DISCOVERIES UPON RELIGION

The sixteenth century in Europe was the age of that revolt against the Roman Church called
the Protestant Reformation. During this period, however, the Church won her victories over
the American aborigines. What she lost of territory, wealth, and influence in Europe was more
than offset by what she gained in America. Furthermore, the region now occupied by the United
States furnished in the seventeenth century an asylum from religious persecution, as was proved
when Puritans settled in New England, Roman Catholics in Maryland, and Quakers in Pennsylvania.
The vacant spaces of America offered plenty of room for all who would worship God in their
own way. Thus the New World became a refuge from the intolerance of the Old.

STUDIES

1. On an outline map indicate those parts of the world known in the time of Columbus (before
1492 A.D.).

2. On an outline map indicate the voyages of discovery of Vasco da Gama, Columbus (first voyage),
John Cabot, and Magellan.

3. What particular discoveries were made by Cartier, Drake, Balboa, De Soto, Ponce de Leon,
and Coronado?

4. Compare the Cosmas map (page 617) with the map of the world according to Homer (page 76).

5. Compare the Hereford map (page 617) with the map of the world according to Ptolemy (page 132).

6. Why has Marco Polo been called the "Columbus of the East Indies"?

7. "Cape Verde not only juts out into the Atlantic, but stands forth as a promontory in human
history." Comment on this statement.

8. How did Vasco da Gama complete the work of Prince Henry the Navigator?

9. Show that Lisbon in the sixteenth century was the commercial successor of Venice.

10. Comment on this statement.

11. Why did no one suggest that the New World be called after Columbus?

12. Show that Magellan achieved what Columbus planned.

13. Why did Balboa call the Pacific the "South Sea"?

14. Why is Roman law followed in all Spanish-American countries?

15. In what parts of the world is Spanish still the common language?

16. Why did the Germans fail to take part in the work of discovery and colonization?

17. Show that the three words "gospel, glory, and gold" sum up the principal motives of European
colonization in the sixteenth century.

18. Compare the motives which led to the colonization of the New World with those which led
to Greek colonization.

19. "The opening of the Atlantic to continuous exploration is the most momentous step in the
history of man's occupation of the earth." Does this statement seem to be justified?

[2] Ezekiel, v, 5.

[3] Isaiah, x, 12.

[4] See pages 574-575.

[5] See page 35.

[6] See page 347.

[7] See page 488.

[8] See page 611.

[9] Froissart, Chronicles, ii, 73.

[10] See page 540.

[11] See page 49.

[12] Not Calcutta.

[13] See page 540.

[14] The Portuguese colonial empire included Ormuz, the west coast of India, Ceylon, Malacca,
and various possessions in the Malay Archipelago (Sumatra, Java, Celebes, the Moluccas, or
Spice Islands, and New Guinea). The Portuguese also had many trading posts on the African coast,
besides Brazil, which one of their mariners discovered in 1500 A.D. See the map Between pages
628-629.

[15] See page 573.

[16] See page 591.

[17] See page 133.

[18] A Latin translation of Ptolemy's Geography, accompanied by maps, was printed for the first
time probably in 1462 A.D.

[19] See page 275.

[20] See page 560.

[21] Named San Salvador by Columbus and usually identified with Watling Island.

[22] In Latin, Americus Vespucius.

[23] In 1494 A.D., the demarcation line was shifted about eight hundred miles farther to the
west. Six years later, when the Portuguese discovered Brazil, the country was found to lie
within their sphere of influence.

[24] Also known as the Mariannes. Magellan called them the Ladrones (Spanish ladron, a robber),
because of the thievish habits of the natives.

[25] See page 9.

[26] Cuba, Hispaniola (now divided between the republics of Haiti and Santo Domingo), Porto
Rico, and Jamaica.

[27] Spanish for the "gilded one."

[28] See the map between pages 628-629. The Philippines, discovered by Magellan in 1521 A.D.,
also belonged to Spain, though by the demarcation line these islands lay within the Portuguese
sphere of influence.

[29] In Spanish El Camino Real.

[30] See page 355.

[31] See page 518.

[32] See page 541.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE REFORMATION AND THE RELIGIOUS WARS, 1517-1648 A.D. [1]

228. DECLINE OF THE PAPACY

THE PAPACY IN THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY

The Papacy, victorious in the long struggle with the Holy Roman Empire, reached during the
thirteenth century the height of its temporal power. The popes at this time were the greatest
sovereigns in Europe. They ruled a large part of Italy, had great influence in the affairs
of France, England, Spain, and other countries, and in Germany named and deposed emperors.
From their capital at Rome they sent forth their legates to every European court and issued
the laws binding on western Christendom.

FRICTION BETWEEN CHURCH AND STATE

The universal dominion of the Church proved useful and even necessary in feudal times, when
kings were weak and nobles were strong. The Church of the early Middle Ages served as the chief
unifying force in Europe. When, however, the kings had repressed feudalism, they took steps
to extend their authority over the Church as well. They tried, therefore, to restrict the privileges
of ecclesiastical courts, to impose taxes on the clergy, as on their own subjects, and to dictate
the appointment of bishops and abbots to office. This policy naturally led to much friction
between popes and kings, between Church and State.

PONTIFICATE OF BONIFACE VIII, 1294-1303 A.D.

The Papacy put forth its most extensive claims under Boniface VIII. The character of these
claims is shown by two bulls which he issued. The first forbade all laymen, under penalty of
excommunication, to collect taxes on Church lands, and all clergymen to pay them. The second
announced in unmistakable terms both the spiritual and the temporal supremacy of the popes.
"Submission to the Roman pontiff," declared Boniface, "is altogether necessary to salvation
for every human creature".

BONIFACE AND PHILIP THE FAIR

Boniface had employed the exalted language of Gregory VII in dealing with Henry IV, but he
found an opponent in a monarch more resolute and resourceful than any Holy Roman Emperor. This
was Philip the Fair, [2] king of France. Philip answered the first bull by refusing to allow
any gold and silver to be exported from France to Italy. The pope, thus deprived of valuable
revenues, gave way and acknowledged that the French ruler had a limited right to tax the clergy.
Another dispute soon arose, however, as the result of Philip's imprisonment and trial of an
obnoxious papal legate. Angered by this action, Boniface prepared to excommunicate the king
and depose him from the throne. Philip retaliated by calling together the Estates-General and
asking their support for the preservation of the "ancient liberty of France." The nobles, the
clergy, and the "third estate" rallied around Philip, accused the pope of heresy and tyranny,
and declared that the French king was subject to God alone.

ANAGNI, 1303 A.D.

The last act of the drama was soon played. Philip sent his emissaries into Italy to arrest
the pope and bring him to trial before a general council in France. At Anagni, near Rome, a
band of hireling soldiers stormed the papal palace and made Boniface a prisoner. The citizens
of Anagni soon freed him, but the shock of the humiliation broke the old man's spirit and he
died soon afterwards. The poet Dante, in the Divine Comedy, [3] speaks with awe of the outrage:
"Christ had been again crucified among robbers; and the vinegar and gall had been again pressed
to his lips". [4] The historian sees in this event the end of the temporal power of the Papacy.

THE "BABYLONION CAPTIVITY," 1309-1377 A.D.

Soon after the death of Boniface, Philip succeeded in having the archbishop of Bordeaux chosen
as head of the Church. The new pope removed the papal court to Avignon, a town just outside
the French frontier of those days. The popes lived in Avignon for nearly seventy years. This
period is usually described as the "Babylonian Captivity" of the Church, a name which recalls
the exile of the Jews from their native land. [5] The long absence of the popes from Rome lessened
their power, and the suspicion that they were the mere vassals of the French crown seriously
impaired the respect in which they had been held.

THE "GREAT SCHISM," 1378-1417 A.D.

Following the "Babylonian Captivity" came the "Great Schism." Shortly after the return of the
papal court to Rome, an Italian was elected pope as Urban VI. The cardinals in the French interest
refused to accept him, declared his election void, and named Clement VII as pope. Clement withdrew
to Avignon, while Urban remained in Rome. Western Christendom could not decide which one to
obey. Some countries declared for Urban, while other countries accepted Clement. The spectacle
of two rival popes, each holding himself out as the only true successor of St. Peter, continued
for about forty years and injured the Papacy more than anything else that had happened to it.

COUNCIL OF CONSTANCE, 1414-1418 A.D.

The schism in western Christendom was finally healed at the Council of Constance. There were
three "phantom popes" at this time, but they were all deposed in favor of a new pontiff, Martin
V. The Catholic world now had a single head, but it was not easy to revive the old, unquestioning
loyalty to him as God's vicar on earth.

THE RENAISSANCE POPES

From the time of Martin V the Papacy became more and more an Italian power. The popes neglected
European politics and gave their chief attention to the States of the Church. A number of the
popes took much interest in the Renaissance movement and became its enthusiastic patrons. [6]
They kept up splendid courts, collected manuscripts, paintings, and statues, and erected magnificent
palaces and churches in Rome. Some European peoples, especially in Germany, looked askance
at such luxury and begrudged the heavy taxes which were necessary to support it. This feeling
against the papacy also helped to provoke the Reformation.

COMPLAINTS AGAINST THE CLERGY

The worldliness of some of the popes was too often reflected in the lives of the lesser clergy.
Throughout the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth centuries the Church encountered much
criticism from reformers. Thus, the famous humanist, Erasmus, [7] wrote his Praise of Folly
to expose the vices and temporal ambitions of bishops and monks, the foolish speculations of
theologians, and the excessive reliance which common people had on pilgrimages, festivals,
relics, and other aids to devotion. So great was the demand for this work that it went through
twenty-seven large editions during the author's lifetime. Erasmus and others like him were
loyal sons of the Church, but they believed they could best serve her interests by effecting
her reform. Some men went further, however, and demanded wholesale changes in Catholic belief
and worship. These men were the heretics.

229. HERESIES AND HERETICS

PERSECUTION OF HERETICS

During the first centuries of our era, when the Christians had formed a forbidden sect, they
claimed toleration on the ground that religious belief is voluntary and not something which
can be enforced by law. This view changed after Christianity triumphed in the Roman Empire
and enjoyed the support, instead of the opposition, of the government. The Church, backed by
the State, no longer advocated freedom of conscience, but began to persecute people who held
heretical beliefs.

MEDIEVAL ATTITUDE TOWARD HERESY

It is difficult for those who live in an age of religious toleration to understand the horror
which heresy inspired in the Middle Ages. A heretic was a traitor to the Church, for he denied
the doctrines believed to be essential to salvation. It seemed a Christian duty to compel the
heretic to recant, lest he imperil his eternal welfare. If he persisted in his impious course,
then the earth ought to be rid of one who was a source of danger to the faithful and an enemy
of the Almighty.

PUNISHMENT OF HERESY

Although executions for heresy had occurred as early as the fourth century, [8] for a long
time milder penalties were usually inflicted. The heretic might be exiled, or imprisoned, or
deprived of his property and his rights as a citizen. The death penalty was seldom invoked
by the Church before the thirteenth century. Since ecclesiastical law forbade the Church to
shed blood, the State stepped in to seize the heretic and put him to death, most often by fire.
We must remember that in medieval times cruel punishments were imposed for even slight offenses,
and hence men saw nothing wrong in inflicting the worst of punishments for what was believed
to be the worst of crimes.

THE ALBIGENSES

In spite of all measures of repression heretics were not uncommon during the later Middle Ages.
Some heretical movements spread over entire communities. The most important was that of the
Albigenses, so called from the town of Albi in southern France, where many of them lived. Their
doctrines are not well known, but they seem to have believed in the existence of two gods--one
good (whose son was Christ), the other evil (whose son was Satan). The Albigenses even set
up a rival church, with its priests, bishops, and councils.

CRUSADE AGAINST THE ALBIGENSES, 1209-1229 A.D.

The failure of attempts to convert the Albigenses by peaceful means led the pope, Innocent
III, [9] to preach a crusade against them. Those who entered upon it were promised the usual
privileges of crusaders. [10] A series of bloody wars now followed, in the course of which
thousands of men, women, and children perished. But the Albigensian sect did not entirely disappear
for more than a century, and then only after numberless trials and executions for heresy.

THE WALDENSES

The followers of Peter Waldo, who lived in the twelfth century, made no effort to set up a
new religion in Europe. They objected, however, to certain practices of the Church, such as
masses for the dead and the adoration of saints. They also condemned the luxury of the clergy
and urged that Christians should live like the Apostles, charitable and poor. To the Waldenses
the Bible was a sufficient guide to the religious life, and so they translated parts of the
scriptures and allowed everyone to preach, without distinction of age, or rank, or sex. The
Waldenses spread through many European countries, but being poor and lowly men they did not
exert much influence as reformers. The sect survived severe persecution and now forms a branch
of the Protestant Church in Italy.

JOHN WYCLIFFE, 1320-1384 A.D.

Beliefs very similar to those of the Waldenses were entertained by John Wycliffe, (or Wyclif)
master of an Oxford college and a popular preacher. He, too, appealed from the authority of
the Church to the authority of the Bible. With the assistance of two friends Wycliffe produced
the first English translation of the Scriptures. Manuscript copies of the work had a large
circulation, until the government suppressed it. Wycliffe was not molested in life, but the
Council of Constance denounced his teaching and ordered that his bones should be dug up, burned,
and cast into a stream.

THE LOLLARDS

Wycliffe had organized bands of "poor priests" to spread the simple truths of the Bible through
all England. They went out, staff in hand and clad in long, russet gowns, and preached to the
common people in the English language, wherever an audience could be found. The Lollards, as
Wycliffe's followers were known, not only attacked many beliefs and practices of the Church,
but also demanded social reforms. For instance, they declared that all wars were sinful and
were but plundering and murdering the poor to win glory for kings. The Lollards had to endure
much persecution for heresy. Nevertheless their work lived on and sowed in England and Scotland
the seeds of the Reformation.

JOHN HUSS, 1373(?)-1415 A.D.

The doctrines of Wycliffe found favor with Anne of Bohemia, wife of King Richard II, [11] and
through her they reached that country. Here they attracted the attention of John Huss, (or
Hus) a distinguished scholar in the university of Prague. Wycliffe's writings confirmed Huss
in his criticism of many doctrines of the Church. He attacked the clergy in sermons and pamphlets
and also objected to the supremacy of the pope. The sentence of excommunication pronounced
against him did not shake his reforming zeal. Finally Huss was cited to appear before the Council
of Constance, then in session. Relying on the safe conduct given him by the German emperor,
Huss appeared before the council, only to be declared guilty of teaching "many things evil,
scandalous, seditious, and dangerously heretical." The emperor then violated the safe conduct--no
promise made to a heretic was considered binding--and allowed Huss to be burnt outside the
walls of Constance. Thus perished the man who, more than all others, is regarded as the forerunner
of Luther and the Reformation.

THE HUSSITE WARS

The flames which burned Huss set all Bohemia afire. The Bohemians, a Slavic people, regarded
him as a national hero and made his martyrdom an excuse for rebelling against the Holy Roman
Empire. The Hussite wars, which followed, thus formed a political rather than a religious struggle.
The Bohemians did not gain freedom, and their country still remains a Hapsburg possession.
But the sense of nationalism is not extinct there, and Bohemia may some day become an independent
state. He was the son of a German peasant, who, by industry and frugality, had won a small
competence. Thanks to his father's self-sacrifice, Luther enjoyed a good education in scholastic
philosophy at the university of Erfurt. Having taken the degrees of bachelor and master of
arts, Luther began to study law, but an acute sense of his sinfulness and a desire to save
his soul soon drove him into a monastery. There he read the Bible and the writings of the Church
Fathers and found at last the peace of mind he sought. A few years later Luther paid a visit
to Rome, which opened his eyes to the worldliness and general laxity of life in the capital
of the Papacy. He returned to Germany and became a professor of theology in the university
of Wittenberg, newly founded by Frederick the Wise, elector of Saxony. Luther's sermons and
lectures attracted large audiences, students began to flock to Wittenberg; and the elector
grew proud of the rising young teacher who was making his university famous.

TETZEL AND INDULGENCES

But Luther was soon to emerge from his academic retirement and to become, quite unintentionally,
a reformer. In 1517 A.D. there came into the neighborhood of Wittenberg a Dominican friar named
Tetzel, granting indulgences for the erection of the new St. Peter's at Rome. [12] An indulgence,
according to the teaching of the Church, formed a remission of the temporal punishment, or
penance [13] due to sin, if the sinner had expressed his repentance and had promised to atone
for his misdeeds. It was also supposed to free the person who received it from some or all
of his punishment after death in Purgatory. [14] Indulgences were granted for participation
in crusades, pilgrimages, and other good works. Later on they were granted for money, which
was expected to be applied to some pious purpose. Many of the German princes opposed this method
of raising funds for the Church, because it took so much money out of their dominions. Their
sale had also been condemned on religious grounds by Huss and Erasmus.

POSTING OF THE NINETY-FIVE THESES, 1517 A.D.

Luther began his reforming career by an attack upon indulgences. He did not deny their usefulness
altogether, but pointed out that they lent themselves to grave abuses. Common people, who could
not understand the Latin in which they were written, often thought that they wiped away the
penalties of sin, even without true repentance. These criticisms Luther set forth in ninety-five
theses or propositions, which he offered to defend against all opponents. In accordance with
the custom of medieval scholars, Luther posted his theses on the door of the church at Wittenberg,
where all might see them. They were composed in Latin, but were at once translated into German,
printed, and spread broadcast over Germany. Their effect was so great that before long the
sale of indulgences in that country almost ceased.

BURNING OF THE PAPAL BULL, 1520 A.D.

The scholarly critic of indulgences soon passed into an open foe of the Papacy. Luther found
that his theological views bore a close resemblance to those of Wycliffe and John Huss, yet
he refused to give them up as heretical. Instead, he wrote three bold pamphlets, in one of
which he appealed to the "Christian nobility of the German nation" to rally together against
Rome. The pope, at first, had paid little attention to the controversy about indulgences, declaring
it "a mere squabble of monks," but he now issued a bull against Luther, ordering him to recant
within sixty days or be excommunicated. The papal bull did not frighten Luther or withdraw
from him popular support. He burnt it in the market square of Wittenberg, in the presence of
a concourse of students and townsfolk. This dramatic answer to the pope deeply stirred all Germany.

DIET OF WORMS, 1521 A.D.

The next scene of the Reformation was staged at Worms, at an important assembly, or Diet, of
the Holy Roman Empire. The Diet summoned Luther to appear before it for examination, and the
emperor, Charles V, gave him a safe conduct. Luther's friends, remembering the treatment of
Huss, advised him not to accept the summons, but he declared that he would enter Worms "in
the face of the gates of Hell and the powers of the air." In the great hall of the Diet Luther
bravely faced the princes, nobles, and clergy of Germany. He refused to retract anything he
had written, unless his statements could be shown to contradict the Bible. "It is neither right
nor safe to act against conscience," Luther said. "God help me. Amen."

LUTHER AT THE WARTBURG, 1521-1522 A.D.

Only one thing remained to do with Luther. He was ordered to return to Wittenberg and there
await the imperial edict declaring him a heretic and outlaw. But the elector of Saxony, who
feared for Luther's safety, had him carried off secretly to the castle of Wartburg. Here Luther
remained for nearly a year, engaged in translating the New Testament into German. There had
been many earlier translations into German, but Luther's was the first from the Greek original.
His version, simple, forcible, and easy to understand, enjoyed wide popularity and helped to
fix for Germans the form of their literary language. Luther afterwards completed a translation
of the entire Bible, which the printing press multiplied in thousands of copies throughout Germany.

LUTHER'S LEADERSHIP

Though still under the ban of the empire, Luther left the Wartburg in 1522 A.D. and returned
to Wittenberg. He lived here, unmolested, until his death, twenty-four years later. During
this time he flooded the country with pamphlets, wrote innumerable letters, composed many fine
hymns, [15] and prepared a catechism, "a right Bible," said he, "for the laity." Thus Luther
became the guide and patron of the reformatory movement which he had started.

231. CHARLES V AND THE SPREAD OF THE GERMAN REFORMATION, 1519-1556 A.D.

CHARLES V, EMPEROR, 1519-1556 A.D.

The young man who as Holy Roman Emperor presided at the Diet of Worms had assumed the imperial
crown only two years previously. A namesake of Charlemagne, Charles V held sway over dominions
even more extensive than those which had belonged to the Frankish king. Through his mother,
a daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella, [16] he inherited Spain, Naples, Sicily, and the Spanish
possessions in the New World. Through his father, a son of the emperor Maximilian I, he became
ruler of Burgundy and the Netherlands and also succeeded to the Austrian territories of the
Hapsburgs. Charles was thus the most powerful monarch in Europe.

CHARLES V AND THE LUTHERANS

Charles, as a devout Roman Catholic, had no sympathy for the Reformation. At Worms, on the
day following Luther's refusal to recant, the emperor had expressed his determination to stake
"all his dominions, his friends, his body and blood, his life and soul" upon the extinction
of the Lutheran heresy. This might have been an easy task, had Charles undertaken it at once.
But a revolt in Spain, wars with the French king, Francis I, and conflicts with the Ottoman
Turks led to his long absence from Germany and kept him from proceeding effectively against
the Lutherans, until it was too late.

THE "REFORMED RELIGION"

The Reformation in Germany appealed to many classes. To patriotic Germans it seemed a revolt
against a foreign power--the Italian Papacy. To men of pious mind it offered the attractions
of a simple faith which took the Bible as the rule of life. Worldly-minded princes saw in it
an opportunity to despoil the Church of lands and revenues. For these reasons Luther's teachings
found ready acceptance. Priests married, Luther himself setting the example, monks left their
monasteries, and the "Reformed Religion" took the place of Roman Catholicism in most parts
of northern and central Germany. South Germany, however, did not fall away from the pope and
has remained Roman Catholic to the present time.

THE PROTESTANTS, 1529 A.D.

Though Germany had now divided into two religious parties, the legal position of Lutheranism
remained for a long time in doubt. A Diet held in 1526 A.D. tried to shelve the question by
allowing each German state to conduct its religious affairs as it saw fit. But at the next
Diet, three years later, a majority of the assembled princes decided that the Edict of Worms
against Luther and his followers should be enforced. The Lutheran princes at once issued a
vigorous protest against such action. Because of this protest those who separated from the
Roman Church came to be called Protestants.

PEACE OF AUGSBURG, 1555 A.D.

It was not till 1546 A.D., the year of Luther's death, that Charles V felt his hands free to
suppress the rising tide of Protestantism. By this time the Lutheran princes had formed a league
for mutual protection. Charles brought Spanish troops into Germany and tried to break up the
league by force. Civil war raged till 1555 A.D., when both sides agreed to the Peace of Augsburg.
It was a compromise. The ruler of each state--Germany then contained over three hundred states--was
to decide whether his subjects should be Lutherans or Catholics. Thus the peace by no means
established religious toleration, since all Germans had to believe as their prince believed.
However, it recognized Lutheranism as a legal religion and ended the attempts to crush the
German Reformation.

LUTHERANISM IN SCANDINAVIA

Meanwhile Luther's doctrines spread into Scandinavian lands. The rulers of Denmark, Norway,
and Sweden closed the monasteries and compelled the Roman Catholic bishops to surrender ecclesiastical
property to the crown. Lutheranism became henceforth the official religion of these three countries.

232. THE REFORMATION IN SWITZERLAND; ZWINGLI AND CALVIN

HULDREICH ZWINGLI, 1484-1531 A.D.

The Reformation in Switzerland began with the work of Zwingli. He was the contemporary but
not the disciple of Luther. From his pulpit in the cathedral of Zurich, Zwingli proclaimed
the Scriptures as the sole guide of faith and denied the supremacy of the pope. Many of the
Swiss cantons accepted his teaching and broke away from obedience to Rome. Civil war soon followed
between Protestants and Roman Catholics, and Zwingli fell in the struggle. After his death
the two parties made a peace which allowed each canton to determine its own religion. Switzerland
has continued to this day to be part Roman Catholic and part Protestant.

JOHN CALVIN 1509-1564 A.D.

The Protestants in Switzerland did not remain long without a leader. To Geneva came in 1536
A.D. a young Frenchman named Calvin. He had just published his Institutes of the Christian
Religion, a work which set forth in an orderly, logical manner the main principles of Protestant
theology. Calvin also translated the Bible into French and wrote valuable commentaries on nearly
all the Scriptural books.

CALVIN AT GENEVA

Calvin at Geneva was sometimes called the Protestant pope. During his long residence there
he governed the people with a rod of iron. There were no more festivals, no more theaters,
no more dancing, music, and masquerades. All the citizens had to attend two sermons on Sunday
and to yield at least a lip-assent to the reformer's doctrines. On a few occasions Calvin proceeded
to terrible extremities, as when he caused the Spanish physician, Michael Servetus, to be burned
to death, because of heretical views concerning the Trinity. Nevertheless, Geneva prospered
under Calvin's rule and became a Christian commonwealth, sober and industrious. The city still
reveres the memory of the man who founded her university and made her, as it were, the sanctuary
of the Reformation.

DIFFUSION OF CALVINISM

Calvin's influence was not confined to Geneva or even to Switzerland. The men whom he trained
and on whom he set the stamp of his stern, earnest, God-fearing character spread Calvinism
over a great part of Europe. In Holland and Scotland it became the prevailing type of Protestantism,
and in France and England it deeply affected the national life. During the seventeenth century
the Puritans carried Calvinism across the sea to New England, where it formed the dominant
faith in colonial times.

233. THE ENGLISH REFORMATION, 1533-1658 A.D.

HENRY VIII, KING, 1509-1547 A.D.

The Reformation in Germany and Switzerland started as a national and popular movement; in England
it began as the act of a despotic sovereign, Henry VIII. This second Tudor [17] was handsome,
athletic, finely educated, and very able, but he was also selfish, sensual, and cruel. His
father had created a strong monarchy in England by humbling both Parliament and the nobles.
When Henry VIII came to the throne, the only serious obstacle in the way of royal absolutism
was the Roman Church.

HENRY'S EARLY LOYALTY TO THE PAPACY

Henry showed himself at first a devoted Catholic. He took an amateur's interest in theology
and wrote with his own royal pen a book attacking Luther. The pope rewarded him with the title
of "Defender of the Faith," a title which English sovereigns still bear. Henry at this time
did not question the authority of the Papacy. He even made his chief adviser Cardinal Wolsey,
the most conspicuous churchman in the kingdom.

PREPARATION FOR THE ENGLISH REFORMATION

At the beginning of Henry's reign the Church was still strong in England. Probably most of
the people were sincerely attached to it. Still, the labors of Wycliffe and the Lollards had
weakened the hold of the Church upon the masses, while Erasmus and the Oxford scholars who
worked with him, by their criticism of ecclesiastical abuses, had done much to undermine its
influence with the intellectual classes. In England, as on the Continent, the worldliness of
the Church prepared the way for the Reformation.

HENRY AND CATHERINE OF ARAGON

The actual separation from Rome arose out of Henry's matrimonial difficulties. He had married
a Spanish princess, Catherine of Aragon, the aunt of the emperor Charles V and widow of Henry's
older brother. The marriage required a dispensation [18] from the pope, because canon law forbade
a man to wed his brother's widow. After living happily with Catherine for eighteen years, Henry
suddenly announced his conviction that the union was sinful. This, of course, formed simply
a pretext for the divorce which Henry desired. Of his children by Catherine only a daughter
survived, but Henry wished to have a son succeed him on the throne. Moreover, he had grown
tired of Catherine and had fallen in love with Anne Boleyn, a pretty maid-in-waiting at the court.

THE DIVORCE, 1533 A.D.

At first Henry tried to secure the pope's consent to the divorce. The pope did not like to
set aside the dispensation granted by his predecessor, nor did he wish to offend the mighty
emperor Charles V. Failing to get the papal sanction, Henry obtained his divorce from an English
court presided over by Thomas Cranmer, archbishop of Canterbury. Anne Boleyn was then proclaimed
queen, in defiance of the papal bull of excommunication.

ACT OF SUPREMACY, 1534 A.D.

Henry's next step was to procure from his subservient Parliament a series of laws which abolished
the pope's authority in England. Of these, the most important was the Act of Supremacy. It
declared the English king to be "the only supreme head on earth of the Church of England."
At the same time a new treason act imposed the death penalty on anyone who called the king
a "heretic, schismatic, tyrant, infidel, or usurper." The great majority of the English people
seem to have accepted this new legislation without much objection; those who refused to do
so perished on the scaffold. The most eminent victim was Sir Thomas More, [19] formerly Henry's
Lord Chancellor and distinguished for eloquence and profound learning. His execution sent a
thrill of horror through Christendom.

THE MONASTERIES SUPPRESSED

The suppression of the monasteries soon followed the separation from Rome. Henry declared to
Parliament that they deserved to be abolished, because of the "slothful and ungodly lives"
led by the inmates. In some instances this accusation may have been true, but the real reason
for Henry's action was his desire to crush the monastic orders, which supported the pope, and
to seize their extensive possessions. The beautiful monasteries were torn down and the lands
attached to them were sold for the benefit of the crown or granted to Henry's favorites. The
nobles who accepted this monastic wealth naturally became zealous advocates of Henry's anti-papal
policy.

PROGRESS OF THE REFORMATION UNDER EDWARD VI, 1547-1553 A.D.

Though Henry VIII had broken with the Papacy, he remained Roman Catholic in doctrine to the
day of his death. Under his successor, Edward VI, the Reformation made rapid progress in England.
The young king's guardian allowed reformers from the Continent to come to England, and the
doctrines of Luther, Zwingli, and Calvin were freely preached there. At this time all paintings,
statuary, wood carvings, and stained glass were removed from church edifices. The use of tapers,
incense, and holy water was also discontinued. In order that religious services might be conducted
in the language of the people, Archbishop Cranmer and his co-workers prepared the Book of Common
Prayer. It consisted of translations into noble English of various parts of the old Latin service
books. With some changes, it is still used in the Church of England and the Protestant Episcopal
Church of the United States.

THE CATHOLIC REACTION UNDER MARY TUDOR, 1553-1558 A.D.

The short reign of Mary Tudor, daughter of Catherine of Aragon, was marked by a temporary setback
to the Protestant cause. The queen prevailed on Parliament to secure a reconciliation with
Rome. She also married her Roman Catholic cousin, Philip of Spain, the son of Charles V. Mary
now began a severe persecution of the Protestants. It gained for her the epithet of "Bloody,"
but it did not succeed in stamping out heresy. Many eminent reformers perished, among them
Cranmer, the former archbishop. Mary died childless, after ruling about five years, and the
crown passed to Anne Boleyn's daughter, Elizabeth. Under Elizabeth Anglicanism again replaced
Roman Catholicism as the religion of England.

234. THE PROTESTANT SECTS

EXTENT OF PROTESTANTISM

The Reformation was practically completed before the close of the sixteenth century. In 1500
A.D. the Roman Church embraced all Europe west of Russia and the Balkan peninsula. By 1575
A.D. nearly half of its former subjects had renounced their allegiance. The greater part of
Germany and Switzerland and all of Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Holland, England, and Scotland
became independent of the Papacy. The unity of western Christendom, which had been preserved
throughout the Middle Ages, thus disappeared and has not since been revived.

COMMON FEATURES OF PROTESTANTISM

The reformers agreed in substituting for the authority of popes and church councils the authority
of the Bible. They went back fifteen hundred years to the time of the Apostles and tried to
restore what they believed to be Apostolic Christianity. Hence they rejected such doctrines
and practices as were supposed to have developed during the Middle Ages. The Reformation also
abolished the monastic system and priestly celibacy. The sharp distinction between clergy and
laity disappeared, for priests married, lived among the people, and no longer formed a separate
class. In general, Protestantism affirmed the ability of every man to find salvation without
the aid of ecclesiastics. The Church was no longer the only "gate of heaven."

DIVISIONS AMONG PROTESTANTS

But the Protestant idea of authority led inevitably to differences of opinion among the reformers.
There were various ways of interpreting that Bible to which they appealed as the rule of faith
and conduct. Consequently, Protestantism split up into many sects or denominations, and these
have gone on multiplying to the present day. Nearly all, however, are offshoots from the three
main varieties of Protestantism which appeared in the sixteenth century.

LUTHERANISM AND ANGLICANISM

Lutheranism and Anglicanism presented some features in common. Both were state churches, supported
by the government; both had a book of common prayer; and both recognized the sacraments of
baptism, the eucharist, and confirmation. The Church of England also kept the sacrament of
ordination. The Lutheran churches in Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, as well as the Church of
England, likewise retained the episcopate.

CALVINISM

Calvinism departed much more widely from Roman Catholicism. It did away with the episcopate
and had only one order of clergy--the presbyters. [20] It provided for a very simple form of
worship. In a Calvinistic church the service consisted of Bible reading, a sermon, extemporaneous
prayers, and hymns sung by the congregation. The Calvinists kept only two sacraments, baptism
and the eucharist. They regarded the first, however, as a simple undertaking to bring up the
child in a Christian manner, and the second as merely a commemoration of the Last Supper.

THE REFORMATION AND FREEDOM

The break with Rome did not introduce religious liberty into Europe. Nothing was further from
the minds of Luther, Calvin, and other reformers than the toleration of Reformation beliefs
unlike their own. The early Protestant sects punished dissenters as zealously as the Roman
Church punished heretics. Lutherans burned the followers of Zwingli in Germany, Calvin put
Servetus to death, and the English government, in the time of Henry VIII and Elizabeth, executed
many Roman Catholics. Complete freedom of conscience and the right of private judgment in religion
have been secured in most European countries only within the last hundred years.

THE REFORMATION AND MORALS

The Reformation, however, did deepen the moral life of European peoples. The faithful Protestant
or Roman Catholic vied with his neighbor in trying to show that his particular belief made
for better living than any other. The sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, in consequence,
were more earnest and serious, if also more bigoted, than the centuries of the Renaissance.

235. THE CATHOLIC COUNTER REFORMATION

THE REFORMING POPES

The rapid spread of Protestantism soon brought about a Catholic Counter Reformation in those
parts of Europe which remained faithful to Rome. The popes now turned from the cultivation
of Renaissance art and literature to the defense of their threatened faith. They made needed
changes in the papal court and appointed to ecclesiastical offices men distinguished for virtue
and learning. This reform of the Papacy dates from the time of Paul III, who became pope in
1534 A.D. He opened the college of cardinals to Roman Catholic reformers, even offering a seat
in it to Erasmus. Still more important was his support of the famous Society of Jesus, which
had been established in the year of his accession to the papal throne.

ST. IGNATIUS LOYOLA, 1491-1556 A.D.

The founder of the new society was a Spanish nobleman, Ignatius Loyola. He had seen a good
deal of service in the wars of Charles V against the French. While in a hospital recovering
from a wound Loyola read devotional books, and these produced a profound change within him.
He now decided to abandon the career of arms and to become, instead, the knight of Christ.
So Loyola donned a beggar's robe, practiced all the kinds of asceticism which his books described,
and went on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. The turning-point of his career came with his visit
to Paris to study theology. Here Loyola met the six devout and talented men who became the
first members of his society. They intended to work as missionaries among the Moslems, but,
when this plan fell through, they visited Rome and placed their energy and enthusiasm at the
disposal of the pope.

THE SOCIETY OF JESUS

Loyola's military training deeply affected the character of the new order. The Jesuits, as
their Protestant opponents styled them, were to be an army of spiritual soldiers, living under
the strictest obedience to their head, or general. Like soldiers, again, they were to remain
in the world, and there fight manfully for the Church and against heretics. The society grew
rapidly; before Loyola's death it included over a thousand members; and in the seventeenth
century it became the most influential of all the religious orders. [21] The activity of the
Jesuits as preachers, confessors, teachers, and missionaries did much to roll back the rising
tide of Protestantism in Europe.

JESUIT SCHOOLS

The Jesuits gave special attention to education, for they realized the importance of winning
over the young people to the Church. Their schools were so good that even Protestant children
often attended them. The popularity of Jesuit teachers arose partly from the fact that they
always tried to lead, not drive their pupils. Light punishments, short lessons, many holidays,
and a liberal use of prizes and other distinctions formed some of the attractive features of
their system of training. It is not surprising that the Jesuits became the instructors of the
Roman Catholic world. They called their colleges the "fortresses of the faith."

JESUIT MISSIONS

The missions of the Jesuits were not less important than their schools. The Jesuits worked
in Poland, Hungary, Bohemia, and other countries where Protestantism threatened to become dominant.
In India, China, the East Indies, Japan, the Philippines, Africa, and the two Americas their
converts from heathenism were numbered by hundreds of thousands.

ST. FRANCIS XAVIER, 1506-1552 A.D.

The most eminent of all Jesuit missionaries, St. Francis Xavier, had belonged to Loyola's original
band. He was a little, blue-eyed man, an engaging preacher, an excellent organizer, and possessed
of so attractive a personality that even the ruffians and pirates with whom he had to associate
on his voyages became his friends. Xavier labored with such devotion and success in the Portuguese
colonies of the Far East as to gain the title of "Apostle to the Indies." He also introduced
Christianity in Japan, where it flourished until a persecuting emperor extinguished it with
fire and sword.

COUNCIL OF TRENT, 1545-1563 A.D.

Another agency in the Counter Reformation was the great Church Council summoned by Pope Paul
III. The council met at Trent, on the borders of Germany and Italy. It continued, with intermissions,
for nearly twenty years. The Protestants, though invited to participate, did not attend, and
hence nothing could be done to bring them back within the Roman Catholic fold. This was the
last general council of the Church for over three hundred years. [22]

WORK OF THE COUNCIL

The Council of Trent made no essential changes in the Roman Catholic doctrines, which remained
as St. Thomas Aquinas [23] and other theologians had set them forth in the Middle Ages. In
opposition to the Protestant view, it declared that the tradition of the Church possessed equal
authority with the Bible. It reaffirmed the supremacy of the pope over Christendom. The council
also passed important decrees forbidding the sale of ecclesiastical offices and requiring bishops
and other prelates to attend strictly to their duties. Since the Council of Trent the Roman
Church has been distinctly a religious organization, instead of both a secular and religious
body, as was the Church in the Middle Ages. [24]

THE INDEX

The council, before adjourning, authorized the pope to draw up a list, or Index, of works which
Roman Catholics might not read. This action did not form an innovation. The Church from an
early day had condemned and destroyed heretical writings. However, the invention of printing,
by giving greater currency to new and dangerous ideas, increased the necessity for the regulation
of thought. The "Index of Prohibited Books" still exists, and additions to the list are made
from time to time. It was matched by the strict censorship of printing long maintained in Protestant
countries.

THE INQUISITION

Still another agency of the Counter Reformation consisted of the Inquisition. This was a system
of church courts for the discovery and punishment of heretics. Such courts had been set up
in the Middle Ages, for instance, to suppress the Albigensian heresy. After the Council of
Trent they redoubled their activity, especially in Italy, the Netherlands, and Spain.

INFLUENCE OF THE INQUISITION

The Inquisition probably contributed to the disappearance of Protestantism in Italy. In the
Netherlands, where it worked with great severity, it only aroused exasperation and hatred and
helped to provoke a successful revolt of the Dutch people. The Spaniards, on the other hand,
approved of the methods of the Inquisition and welcomed its extermination of Moors and Jews,
as well as Protestant heretics. The Spanish Inquisition was not abolished till the nineteenth
century.

236. SPAIN UNDER PHILIP II, 1556-1598 A.D.

ABDICATION OF CHARLES V, 1555-1556 A.D.

In 1555 A.D., the year of the Peace of Augsburg, [25] Charles V determined to abdicate his
many crowns and seek the repose of a monastery. The plan was duly carried into effect. His
brother Ferdinand I succeeded to the title of Holy Roman Emperor and the Austrian territories,
while his son, Philip II, [26] received the Spanish possessions in Italy, the Netherlands,
and America. There were now two branches of the Hapsburg family--one in Austria and one in Spain.

PHILIP II

The new king of Spain was a man of unflagging energy, strong will, and deep attachment to the
Roman Church. As a ruler he had two great ideals: to make Spain the foremost state in the world
and to secure the triumph of the Roman Catholic faith over Protestantism. His efforts to realize
these ideals largely determined European history during the second half of the sixteenth century.

BATTLE OF LEPANTO, 1571 A.D.

The Spanish monarch won renown by becoming the champion of Christendom against the Ottoman
Turks. At this time the Turks had a strong navy, by means of which they captured Cyprus from
the Venetians and ravaged Sicily and southern Italy. Grave danger existed that they would soon
control all the Mediterranean. To stay their further progress one of the popes preached what
was really the last crusade. Lepanto is one of the proud names in the history of Spain.

ANNEXATION OF PORTUGAL, 1581 A.D.

Philip had inherited an extensive realm. He further widened it by the annexation of Portugal,
thus completing the unification of the Spanish peninsula. The Portuguese colonies in Africa,
Asia, and America also passed into Spanish hands. The union of Spain and Portugal under one
crown never commanded any affection among the Portuguese, who were proud of their nationality
and of their achievements as explorers and empire- builders. Portugal separated from Spain
in 1640 A.D. and has since remained an independent state.

PHILIP'S FAILURES

But the successes of Philip were more than offset by his failures. Though he had vast possessions,
enormous revenues, mighty fleets, and armies reputed the best of the age, he could not dominate
western Europe. His attempt to conquer England, a stronghold of Protestantism under Elizabeth,
resulted in disaster. Not less disastrous was his life-long struggle with the Netherlands.

237. REVOLT OF THE NETHERLANDS

THE NETHERLANDS

The seventeen provinces of the Netherlands occupied the flat, low country along the North Sea--the
Holland, Belgium, and northern France of the present day. During the fifteenth century they
became Hapsburg possessions and thus belonged to the Holy Roman Empire. As we have learned,
Charles V received them as a part of his inheritance, and he, in turn, transmitted them to
Philip II.

CONDITION OF THE NETHERLANDS

The inhabitants of the Netherlands were not racially united. In the southernmost provinces
Celtic blood and Romance speech prevailed, while farther north dwelt peoples of Teutonic extraction,
who spoke Flemish and Dutch. Each province likewise kept its own government and customs. The
prosperity which had marked the Flemish cities during the Middle Ages [27] extended in the
sixteenth century to the Dutch cities also. Rotterdam, Leyden, Utrecht, and Amsterdam profited
by the geographical discoveries and became centers of extensive commerce with Asia and America.
The rise of the Dutch power, in a country so exposed to destructive inundations of both sea
and rivers, is a striking instance of what can be accomplished by a frugal, industrious population.

PROTESTANTISM IN THE NETHERLANDS

The Netherlands were too near Germany not to be affected by the Reformation. Lutheranism soon
appeared there, only to encounter the hostility of Charles V, who introduced the terrors of
the Inquisition. Many heretics were burned at the stake, or beheaded, or buried alive. But
there is no seed like martyr's blood. The number of Protestants swelled, rather than lessened,
especially after Calvinism entered the Netherlands. As a Jesuit historian remarked, "Nor did
the Rhine from Germany or the Meuse from France send more water into the Low Countries than
by the one the contagion of Luther, and by the other that of Calvin, were imported into these
provinces."

POLICY OF PHILIP II

In spite of the cruel treatment of heretics by Charles V, both Flemish and Dutch remained loyal
to the emperor, because he had been born and reared among them and always considered their
country as his own. But Philip II, a Spaniard by birth and sympathies, seemed to them only
a foreign master. The new ruler did nothing to conciliate the people. He never visited the
Netherlands after 1559 A.D., but governed them despotically through Spanish officials supported
by Spanish garrisons. Arbitrary taxes were levied, cities and nobles were deprived of their
cherished privileges, and the activity of the Inquisition was redoubled. Philip intended to
exercise in the Netherlands the same absolute power which he enjoyed in Spain.

ALVA SENT TO THE NETHERLANDS, 1567 A.D.

The religious persecution which by Philip's orders raged through the Netherlands everywhere
aroused intense indignation. The result was rioting by mobs of Protestants, who wrecked churches
and monasteries and carried off the treasure they found in them. Philip replied to these acts
by sending his best army, under the duke of Alva, his best general, to reduce the turbulent
provinces into submission.

OUTBREAK OF THE REVOLT

Alva carried out with thoroughness the policy of his royal master. A tribunal, popularly known
as the "Council of Blood," was set up for the punishment of treason and heresy. Hundreds, and
probably thousands, perished; tens of thousands fled to Germany and England. Alva, as governor-general,
also raised enormous taxes, which threatened to destroy the trade and manufactures of the Netherlands.
Under these circumstances Roman Catholics and Protestants, nobles and townsfolk, united against
their Spanish oppressors. A revolt began which Spain could never quell. He was of German birth,
a convert to Protestantism, and the owner of large estates in the Netherlands. William had
fair ability as a general, a statesmanlike grasp of the situation, and above all a stout, courageous
heart which never wavered in moments of danger and defeat. To rescue the Netherlands from Spain
he sacrificed his high position, his wealth, and eventually his life.

SEPARATION OF THE NETHERLANDS

The ten southern provinces of the Netherlands, mainly Roman Catholic in population, soon effected
a reconciliation with Philip and returned to their allegiance. They remained in Hapsburg hands
for over two centuries. Modern Belgium has grown out of them. The seven northern provinces,
where Dutch was the language and Protestantism the religion, formed in 1579 A.D. the Union
of Utrecht. Two years later they declared their independence of Spain. Thus the republic of
the United Netherlands, often known as Holland, the most important of the seven provinces,
came into being.

COURSE OF THE REVOLT

The struggle of the Dutch for freedom forms one of the most notable episodes in history. At
first they were no match for the disciplined Spanish soldiery, but they fought bravely behind
the walls of their cities and on more than one occasion repelled the enemy by cutting the dikes
and letting in the sea. Though William the Silent perished in a dark hour by an assassin's
bullet, the contest continued. England now came to the aid of the hard-pressed republic with
money and a small army. Philip turned upon his new antagonist and sent against England the
great fleet called the "Invincible Armada." Its destruction interfered with further attempts
to subjugate the Dutch, but the Spanish monarch, stubborn to the last, refused to acknowledge
their independence. His successor, in 1609 A.D., consented to a twelve years' truce with the
revolted provinces. Their freedom was recognized officially by Spain at the close of the Thirty
Years' War in 1648 A.D.

THE DUTCH REPUBLIC

The long struggle bound the Dutch together and made them one nation. During the seventeenth
century they took a prominent part in European affairs. The republic which they founded ought
to be of special interest to Americans, for many features of our national government are Dutch
in origin. To Holland we owe the idea of a declaration of independence, of a written constitution,
of religious toleration, and of a comprehensive school system supported by taxation. In these
and other matters the Dutch were pioneers of modern democracy.

238. ENGLAND UNDER ELIZABETH, 1558-1603 A.D.

ELIZABETH

Queen Elizabeth, who reigned over England during the period of the Dutch revolt, came to the
throne when about twenty-five years old. She was tall and commanding in presence and endowed
with great physical vigor and endurance. After hunting all day or dancing all night she could
still attend unremittingly to public business. Elizabeth had received an excellent education;
she spoke Latin and several modern languages; knew a little Greek; and displayed some skill
in music. To her father, Henry VIII, she doubtless owed her tactfulness and charm of manner,
as well as her imperious will; she resembled her mother, Anne Boleyn, in her vanity and love
of display. As a ruler Elizabeth was shrewd, far-sighted, a good judge of character, and willing
to be guided by the able counselors who surrounded her. Above all, Elizabeth was an ardent
patriot. She understood and loved her people, and they, in turn, felt a chivalrous devotion
to the "Virgin Queen," to "Good Queen Bess".

PROTESTANTISM IN ENGLAND

The daughter of Anne Boleyn had been born under the ban of the pope, so that opposition to
Rome was the natural course for her to pursue. Two acts of Parliament now separated England
once more from the Papacy and gave the English Church practically the form and doctrines which
it retains to-day. The church was intended to include everyone in England, and hence all persons
were required to attend religious exercises on Sundays and holy days. Refusal to do so exposed
the offender to a fine.

TREATMENT OF ROMAN CATHOLICS

The great body of the people soon conformed to the state church, but Roman Catholics could
not conscientiously attend its services. The laws against them do not seem to have been strictly
enforced at first, but in the later years of Elizabeth's reign real or suspected plots by Roman
Catholics against her throne led to a policy of repression. Those who said or heard mass were
heavily fined and imprisoned; those who brought papal bulls into England or converted Protestants
to Roman Catholicism were executed as traitors. Several hundred priests, mostly Jesuits, suffered
death, and many more languished in jail. This persecution, however necessary it may have seemed
to Elizabeth and her advisers, is a blot on her reign.

PROTESTANTISM IN IRELAND

The Reformation made little progress in Ireland. Henry VIII, who had extended English sway
over most of the island, suppressed the monasteries, demolished shrines, relics, and images,
and placed English-speaking priests in charge of the churches. The Irish people, who remained
loyal to Rome, regarded these measures as the tyrannical acts of a foreign government. During
Elizabeth's reign there were several dangerous revolts, which her generals suppressed with
great cruelty. The result was to widen the breach between England and Ireland. Henceforth to
most Irishmen patriotism became identified with Roman Catholicism.

ELIZABETH AND MARY QUEEN OF SCOTS

Many of the plots against Elizabeth centered about Mary Stuart, the ill- starred Queen of Scots.
She was a granddaughter of Henry VII, and extreme Roman Catholics claimed that she had a better
right to the English throne than Elizabeth, because the pope had declared the marriage of Henry
VIII and Anne Boleyn null and void. Mary, a fervent Roman Catholic, did not please her Scotch
subjects, who had adopted Calvinistic doctrines. She also discredited herself by marrying the
man who had murdered her former husband. An uprising of the Scottish nobles compelled Mary
to abdicate the throne in favor of her infant son [28] and to take refuge in England. Elizabeth
kept her rival in captivity for nearly twenty years. In 1586 A.D., the former queen was found
guilty of conspiring against Elizabeth's life and was beheaded.

ELIZABETH AND PHILIP II

Philip II, the king of Spain, also threatened Elizabeth's security. At the outset of her reign
Philip had made her an offer of marriage, but she refused to give herself, or England, a Spanish
master. As time went on, Philip turned into an open enemy of the Protestant queen and did his
best to stir up sedition among her Roman Catholic subjects. It must be admitted that Philip
could plead strong justification for his attitude. Elizabeth allowed the English "sea dogs"
[29] to plunder Spanish colonies and seize Spanish vessels laden with the treasure of the New
World. Moreover, she aided the rebellious Dutch, at first secretly and at length openly, in
their struggle against Spain. Philip put up with these aggressions for many years, but finally
came to the conclusion that he could never subdue the Netherlands or end the piracy and smuggling
in Spanish America without first conquering England. The execution of Mary Stuart removed his
last doubts, for Mary had left him her claims to the English throne. He at once made ready
to invade England. Philip seems to have believed that as soon as a Spanish army landed in the
island, the Roman Catholics would rally to his cause. But the Spanish king never had a chance
to verify his belief; the decisive battle took place on the sea.

THE "INVINCIBLE ARMADA," 1588 A.D.

Philip had not completed his preparations before Sir Francis Drake sailed into Cadiz harbor
and destroyed a vast amount of naval stores and shipping. This exploit, which Drake called
"singeing the king of Spain's beard," delayed the expedition for a year. The "Invincible Armada"
[30] set out at last in 1588 A.D. The Spanish vessels, though somewhat larger than those of
the English, were inferior in number, speed, and gunnery to their adversaries, while the Spanish
officers, mostly unused to the sea, were no match for men like Drake, Frobisher, and Raleigh,
the best mariners of the age. The Armada suffered severely in a nine-days fight in the Channel,
and many vessels which escaped the English guns met shipwreck off the Scotch and Irish coasts.
Less than half of the Armada returned in safety to Spain.

ENGLISH SEA-POWER

England in the later Middle Ages had been an important naval power, as her ability to carry
on the Hundred Years' War in France amply proved. But in the sixteenth century she was greatly
over-matched by Spain, especially after the annexation of Portugal added the naval forces of
that country to the Spanish fleets. The defeat of the Armada not only did great harm to the
navy and commerce of Spain; it also showed that a new people had arisen to claim the supremacy
of the ocean. Henceforth the English began to build up what was to be a sea-power greater than
any other known to history.

239. THE HUGUENOT WARS IN FRANCE

FRANCE UNDER FRANCIS I, 1515-1547 A.D.

By 1500 A.D. France had become a centralized state under a strong monarchy. [31] Francis I,
who reigned in the first half of the sixteenth century, still further exalted the royal power.
He had many wars with Charles V, whose extensive dominions nearly surrounded the French kingdom.
These wars prevented the emperor from making France a mere dependency of Spain. As we have
learned, [32] they also interfered with the efforts of Charles V to crush the Protestants in
Germany.

THE HUGUENOTS

Protestantism in France dates from the time of Francis I. The Huguenots, [33] as the French
Protestants were called, naturally accepted the doctrines of Calvin, who was himself a Frenchman
and whose books were written in the French language. Though bitterly persecuted by Francis
I and by his son Henry II (1547-1559 A.D.), the Huguenots gained a large following, especially
among the prosperous middle class of the towns--the bourgeoisie. Many nobles also became Huguenots,
sometimes because of religious conviction, but often because the new movement offered them
an opportunity to recover their feudal independence and to plunder the estates of the Church.
In France, as well as in Germany, the Reformation had its worldly side.

CIVIL WAR IN FRANCE

During most of the second half of the sixteenth century fierce conflicts raged in France between
the Roman Catholics and the Huguenots. Philip II aided the former and Queen Elizabeth gave
some assistance to the latter. France suffered terribly in the struggle, not only from the
constant fighting, which cost the lives, it is said, of more than a million people, but also
from the pillage, burnings, and other barbarities in which both sides indulged. The wealth
and prosperity of the country visibly declined, and all patriotic feeling disappeared in the
hatreds engendered by a civil war.

MASSACRE OF ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S DAY, 1572 A.D.

The episode known as the massacre of St. Bartholomew's Day illustrates the extremes to which
political ambition and religious bigotry could lead. The massacre was an attempt to extirpate
the Huguenots, root and branch, at a time when peace prevailed between them and their opponents.
The person primarily responsible for it was Catherine de' Medici, mother of Charles IX (1560-1574
A.D.), the youthful king of France. Charles had begun to cast off the sway of his mother and
to come under the influence of Admiral de Coligny, the most eminent of the Huguenots. To regain
her power Catherine first tried to have Coligny murdered. When the plot failed, she invented
the story of a great Huguenot uprising and induced her weak- minded son to authorize a wholesale
butchery of Huguenots. It began in Paris in the early morning of August 24, 1572 A.D. (St.
Bartholomew's Day), and extended to the provinces, where it continued for several weeks. Probably
ten thousand Huguenots were slain, including Coligny himself. But the deed was a blunder as
well as a crime. The Huguenots took up arms to defend themselves, and France again experienced
all the horrors of internecine strife.

HENRY IV

The death of Coligny transferred the leadership of the Huguenots to Henry Bourbon, king of
Navarre. [34] Seventeen years after the massacre of St. Bartholomew's Day, he inherited the
French crown as Henry IV. The Roman Catholics would not accept a Protestant ruler and continued
the conflict. Henry soon realized that only his conversion to the faith of the majority of
his subjects would bring a lasting peace. Religious opinions had always sat lightly upon him,
and he found no great difficulty in becoming a Roman Catholic. "Paris," said Henry, "was well
worth a mass." Opposition to the king soon collapsed, and the Huguenot wars came to an end.

EDICT OF NANTES, 1598 A.D.

Though now a Roman Catholic, Henry did not break with the Huguenots. In 1598 A.D. he issued
in their interest the celebrated Edict of Nantes. By its terms the Huguenots were to enjoy
freedom of private worship everywhere in France, and freedom to worship publicly in a large
number of villages and towns. Only Roman Catholic services, however, might be held in Paris
and at the royal court. Though the edict did not grant complete religious liberty, it marked
an important step in that direction. A great European state now for the first time recognized
the principle that two rival faiths might exist side by side within its borders. The edict
was thus the most important act of toleration since the age of Constantine. [35]

FRANCE UNDER HENRY IV, 1588-1610 A.D.

Having settled the religious difficulties, Henry could take up the work of restoring prosperity
to distracted France. His interest in the welfare of his subjects gained for him the name of
"Good King Henry." With the help of Sully, his chief minister, the king reformed the finances
and extinguished the public debt. He opened roads, built bridges, and dug canals, thus aiding
the restoration of agriculture. He also encouraged commerce by means of royal bounties for
shipbuilding. The French at this time began to have a navy and to compete with the Dutch and
English for trade on the high seas. Henry's work of renovation was cut short in 1610 A.D. by
an assassin's dagger. Under his son Louis XIII (1610-1643 A.D.), a long period of disorder
followed, until an able minister, Cardinal Richelieu, assumed the guidance of public affairs.
Richelieu for many years was the real ruler of France. His foreign policy led to the intervention
of that country in the international conflict known as the Thirty Years' War.

240. THE THIRTY YEARS' WAR, 1618-1648 A.D.

RELIGIOUS ANTAGONISMS

The Peace of Augsburg [36] gave repose to Germany for more than sixty years, but it did not
form a complete settlement of the religious question in that country. There was still room
for bitter disputes, especially over the ownership of Church property which had been secularized
in the course of the Reformation. Furthermore, the peace recognized only Roman Catholics and
Lutherans and gave no rights whatever to the large body of Calvinists. The failure of Lutherans
and Calvinists to cooperate weakened German Protestantism just at the period when the Counter
Reformation inspired Roman Catholicism with fresh energy and enthusiasm.

POLITICAL FRICTION

Politics, as well as religion, also helped to bring about the great conflagration. The Roman
Catholic party relied for support on the Hapsburg emperors, who wished to unite the German
states under their control, thus restoring the Holy Roman Empire to its former proud position
in the affairs of Europe. The Protestant princes, on the other hand, wanted to become independent
sovereigns. Hence they resented all efforts to extend the imperial authority over them.

THE BOHEMIAN REVOLT

The Thirty Years' War was not so much a single conflict as a series of conflicts, which ultimately
involved nearly all western Europe. It began in Bohemia, where Protestantism had not been extinguished
by the Hussite wars. [37] The Bohemian nobles, many of whom were Calvinists, revolted against
Hapsburg rule and proclaimed the independence of Bohemia. The German Lutherans gave them no
aid, however, and the emperor, Ferdinand II, easily put down the insurrection. Many thousands
of Protestants were now driven into exile. Those who remained in Bohemia were obliged to accept
Roman Catholicism. Thus one more country was lost to Protestantism.

DANISH INTERVENTION

The failure of the Bohemian revolt aroused the greatest alarm in Germany. Ferdinand threatened
to follow in the footsteps of Charles V and to crush Protestantism in the land of its birth.
When, therefore, the king of Denmark, who as duke of Holstein had great interest in German
affairs, decided to intervene, both Lutherans and Calvinists supported him. But Wallenstein,
the emperor's able general, proved more than a match for the Danish king, who at length withdrew
from the contest.

EDICT OF RESTITUTION, 1692 A.D.

So far the Roman Catholic and imperial party had triumphed. Ferdinand's success led him to
issue the Edict of Restitution, which compelled the Protestants to restore all the Church property
which they had taken since the Peace of Augsburg. The enforcement of the edict brought about
renewed resistance on the part of the Protestants.

GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS AND THE INTERVENTION OF SWEDEN

There now appeared the single heroic figure on the stage of the Thirty Years' War. This was
Gustavus Adolphus, king of Sweden, and a man of military genius. He had the deepest sympathy
for his fellow-Protestants in Germany and regarded himself as their divinely appointed deliverer.
By taking part in the war Gustavus also hoped to conquer the coast of northern Germany. The
Baltic would then become a Swedish lake, for Sweden already possessed Finland and what are
now the Russian provinces on the Baltic.

GUSTAVUS ADOLPHUS IN GERMANY, 1630-1632 A.D.

Gustavus entered Germany with a strong force of disciplined soldiers and tried to form alliances
with the Protestant princes. They received him coolly at first, for the Swedish king seemed
to them only a foreign invader. Just at this time the imperialists captured Magdeburg, the
largest and most prosperous city in northern Germany. At least twenty thousand of the inhabitants
perished miserably amid the smoking ruins of their homes. This massacre turned Protestant sentiment
toward Gustavus as the "Lion of the North" who had come to preserve Germany from destruction.
With the help of his allies Gustavus reconquered most of Germany for the Protestants, but he
fell at the battle of Luetzen in the moment of victory. His work, however, was done. The Swedish
king had saved the cause of Protestantism in Germany.

RICHELIEU AND THE INTERVENTION OF FRANCE

After the death of Gustavus the war assumed more and more a political character. The German
Protestants found an ally, strangely enough, in Cardinal Richelieu, the all-powerful minister
of the French king. Richelieu entered the struggle in order to humble the Austrian Hapsburgs
and extend the boundaries of France toward the Rhine, at the expense of the Holy Roman Empire.
Since the Spanish Hapsburgs were aiding their Austrian kinsmen, Richelieu naturally fought
against Spain also. The war thus became a great international conflict in which religion played
only a minor part. The Holy Roman Emperor had to yield at last and consented to the treaties
of peace signed at two cities in the province of Westphalia.

PEACE OF WESTPHALIA, 1648 A.D.

The Peace of Westphalia ended the long series of wars which followed the Reformation. It practically
settled the religious question, for it allowed Calvinists in Germany to enjoy the same privileges
as Lutherans and also withdrew the Edict of Restitution. Nothing was said in the treaties about
liberty of conscience, but from this time the idea that religious differences should be settled
by force gradually passed away from the minds of men.

TERRITORIAL READJUSTMENTS

The political clauses of the peace were numerous. France received nearly all of Alsace along
the Rhine. Sweden gained possessions in North Germany. Brandenburg--the future kingdom of Prussia--secured
additional territory on the Baltic Sea. The independence of Switzerland [38] and of the United
Netherlands [39] was also recognized.

DISRUPTION OF GERMANY

The Peace of Westphalia left Germany more divided than ever. Each one of the larger states
was free to coin money, raise armies, make war, and negotiate treaties without consulting the
emperor. In fact, the Holy Roman Empire had become a mere phantom. The Hapsburgs from now on
devoted themselves to their Austrian dominions, which included more Magyars and Slavs than
Germans. The failure of the Hapsburgs in the Thirty Years' War long postponed the unification
of Germany.

EXHAUSTION OF GERMANY

During the Thirty Years' War Germany had seen most of the fighting. She suffered from it to
the point of exhaustion. The population dwindled from about sixteen million to one-half, or,
as some believe, to one-third that number. The loss of life was partly due to the fearful epidemics,
such as typhus fever and the bubonic plague, which spread over the land in the wake of the
invading armies. Hundreds of villages were destroyed or were abandoned by their inhabitants.
Much of the soil went out of cultivation, while trade and manufacturing nearly disappeared.
Added to all this was the decline of education, literature, and art, and the brutalizing of
the people in mind and morals. It took Germany at least one hundred years to recover from the
injury inflicted by the Thirty Years' War; complete recovery, indeed, came only in the nineteenth
century.

RISE OF INTERNATIONAL LAW

The savagery displayed by all participants in the Thirty Years' War could not but impress thinking
men with the necessity of formulating rules to protect noncombatants, to care for prisoners,
and to do away with pillage and massacre. The worst horrors of the war had not taken place,
before a Dutch jurist, named Hugo Grotius, published at Paris in 1625 A.D. a work On the Laws
of War and Peace. It may be said to have founded international law. The success of the book
was remarkable. Gustavus Adolphus carried a copy about with him during his campaigns, and its
leading doctrines were recognized and acted upon in the Peace of Westphalia.

THE EUROPEAN STATE SYSTEM

The great principle on which Grotius based his recommendations was the independence of sovereign
states. He gave up the medieval conception of a temporal and spiritual head of Christendom.
The nations now recognized no common superior, whether emperor or pope, but all were equal
in the sight of international law. The book of Grotius thus marked the profound change which
had come over Europe since the Middle Ages.

STUDIES

1. On an outline map indicate the European countries ruled by Charles V.

2. On an outline map indicate the principal territorial changes made by the Peace of Westphalia.

3. Identify the following dates: 1648 A.D.; 1519 A.D.; 1517 A.D.; 1588 A.D.; 1598 A.D.; and
1555 A.D.

4. Locate the following places: Avignon; Constance; Augsburg; Zurich; Worms; Magdeburg; and
Utrecht.

5. For what were the following persons noted: Cardinal Wolsey; Admiral de Coligny; Duke of
Alva; Richelieu; St. Ignatius Loyola; Boniface VIII; Frederick the Wise; Gustavus Adolphus;
and Mary Queen of Scots?

6. Compare the scene at Anagni with the scene at Canossa.

7. On the map, page 646, trace the geographical extent of the "Great Schism."

8. Name three important reasons for the lessened influence of the Roman Church at the opening
of the sixteenth century.

9. Explain the difference between heresy and schism.

10. Why has Wycliffe been called the "morning star of the Reformation"?

11. Compare Luther's work in fixing the form of the German language with Dante's service to
Italian through the Divine Comedy.

12. What is the origin of the name "Protestant"?

13. Why was Mary naturally a Catholic and Elizabeth naturally a Protestant?

14. On the map, page 663, trace the geographical extent of the Reformation in the sixteenth
century.

15. Why did the reformers in each country take special pains to translate the Bible into the
vernacular?

16. What is the chief difference in mode of government between Presbyterian and Congregational
churches?

17. "The heroes of the Reformation, judged by modern standards, were reactionaries." What does
this statement mean?

18. Why is the Council of Trent generally considered the most important church council since
that of Nicaea?

19. Mention some differences between the Society of Jesus and earlier monastic orders.

20. Compare the Edict of Nantes with the Peace of Augsburg.

21. Show how political, as well as religious, motives affected the revolt of the Netherlands,
the Huguenot wars, and the Thirty Years' War.

22. Compare the effects of the Thirty Years' War on Germany with the effects of the Hundred
Years' War on France.

23. What would you say of Holbein's success as a portrait painter (illustrations pages 651, 658)?

[2] See page 514.

[3] See page 591.

[4] Purgatorio, xx, 88-90.

[5] See pages 36-37.

[6] See page 594.

[7] See page 600.

[8] See page 344.

[9] See page 641.

[10] See page 468.

[11] See page 611.

[12] See page 455.

[13] See page 441.

[14] See page 443.

[16] See page 527.

[17] See page 518.

[18] See page 453.

[19] See page 613.

[20] Churches governed by assemblies of presbyters were called Presbyterian; those which allowed
each congregation to rule itself were called Congregational.

[21] In 1773 A.D. the pope suppressed the society, on the ground that it had outgrown its usefulness.
It was revived in many European countries during the nineteenth century.

[22] Until the Vatican Council, held at Rome in 1869-1870 A D.

[23] See page 572.

[24] See page 440.

[25] See page 656.

[26] See page 677.

[27] See pages 550-552.

[28] See page 511, note 1.

[29] See page 639.

[30] Armada was a Spanish name for any armed fleet.

[31] See page 519.

[32] See page 634.

[33] The origin of the name is not known with certainty.

[34] Navarre originally formed a small kingdom on both sides of the Pyrenees. The part south
of these mountains was acquired by Spain in 1513 A.D. See the map on page 521.

[35] See page 235.

[36] See page 656.

[37] See page 650.

[38] See page 524, note 1.

[39] See page 674.

CHAPTER XXVIII

ABSOLUTISM IN FRANCE AND ENGLAND 1603-1715 A.D. [1]

241. THE DIVINE RIGHT OF KINGS

ABSOLUTISM

Most European nations in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries accepted the principle of
absolutism in government. Absolutism was as popular then as democracy is to-day. The rulers
of France, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Scandinavia, and other countries, having triumphed over
the feudal nobles, proceeded to revive the autocratic traditions of imperial Rome. Like Diocletian,
Constantine, and later emperors, they posed as absolute sovereigns, who held their power, not
from the choice or consent of their subjects, but from God.

DIVINITY OF KINGS

Royal absolutism formed a natural development of the old belief in the divinity of kings. Many
primitive peoples regard their headmen and chiefs as holy and give to them the control of peace
and war, of life and death. Oriental rulers in antiquity bore a sacred character. Even in the
lifetime of an Egyptian Pharaoh temples were erected to him and offerings were made to his
sacred majesty. The Hebrew monarch was the Lord's anointed, and his person was holy. The Hellenistic
kings of the East and the Roman emperors received divine honors from their adoring subjects.
An element of sanctity also attached to medieval sovereigns, who, at their coronation, were
anointed with a magic oil, girt with a sacred sword, and given a supernatural banner. Even
Shakespeare could speak of the divinity which "doth hedge a king." [3]

DIVINE RIGHT AFTER THE REFORMATION

The Reformation tended to emphasize the sacred character of kingship. The reformers set up
the authority of the State against the authority of the Church, which they rejected and condemned.
Providence, they argued, had never sanctioned the Papacy, but Providence had really ordained
the State and had placed over it a king whom it was a religious duty to obey. Even those who
were not reformers distorted the Christian idea that government has a divine basis to represent
kings as God's vicegerents upon earth, as in fact earthly deities.

BOSSUET ON DIVINE RIGHT

The theory of divine right received its fullest expression in a famous book [4] written by
Bossuet, a learned French bishop of the seventeenth century. A hereditary monarchy, declared
Bossuet, is the most ancient and natural, the strongest and most efficient, of all forms of
government. Royal power emanates from God; hence the person of the king is sacred and it is
sacrilege to conspire against him. His authority is absolute and autocratic. No man may rightfully
resist the king's commands; his subjects owe him obedience in all matters. To the violence
of a king the people can oppose only respectful remonstrances and prayers for his conversion.
A king, to be sure, ought not to be a tyrant, but he can be one in perfect security.

242. THE ABSOLUTISM OF LOUIS XIV, 1661-1715 A.D.

CARDINAL RICHELIEU

France in the seventeenth century furnished the best example of an absolute monarchy supported
by pretensions to divine right. French absolutism owed most of all to Cardinal Richelieu, [5]
the chief minister of Louis XIII. Though a man of poor physique and in weak health, he possessed
such strength of will, together with such thorough understanding of politics, that he was able
to dominate the king and through the king to govern France for eighteen years (1624-1642 A.D.).

POLICIES OF RICHELIEU

Richelieu's foreign policy led to his intervention on the side of the Protestants at a decisive
moment in the Thirty Years' War. The great cardinal, however, did not live to see the triumph
of his measures in the Peace of Westphalia, which humiliated the Hapsburgs and raised France
to the first place among the states of western Europe. Richelieu's domestic policy--to make
the French king supreme--was equally successful. Though the nobles were still rich and influential,
Richelieu beat down their opposition by forbidding the practice of duelling, that last remnant
of private warfare, by ordering many castles to be blown up with gunpowder, and by bringing
rebellious dukes and counts to the scaffold. Henceforth the nobles were no longer feudal lords
but only courtiers.

CARDINAL MAZARIN

Richelieu died in 1642 A.D., and the next year Louis XIII, the master whom he had served so
faithfully, also passed away. The new ruler, Louis XIV, was only a child, and the management
of affairs for a second period of eighteen years passed into the hands of Cardinal Mazarin.
Though an Italian by birth, he became a naturalized Frenchman and carried out Richelieu's policies.
Against the Hapsburgs Mazarin continued the great war which Richelieu had begun and brought
it to a satisfactory conclusion. The Peace of Westphalia was Mazarin's greatest triumph. He
also crushed a formidable uprising against the crown, on the part of discontented nobles. Having
achieved all this, the cardinal could truly say that "if his language was not French, his heart
was," His death in 1661 A.D. found the royal authority more firmly established than ever before.

LOUIS XIV, THE MAN

Louis XIV, who now in his twenty-third year took up the reins of government, ranks among the
ablest of French monarchs. He was a man of handsome presence, slightly below the middle height,
with a prominent nose and abundant hair, which he allowed to fall over his shoulders. In manner
he was dignified, reserved, courteous, and as majestic, it is said, in his dressing-gown as
in his robes of state. A contemporary wrote that he would have been every inch a king, "even
if he had been born under the roof of a beggar." Louis possessed much natural intelligence,
a retentive memory, and great capacity for work. It must be added, however, that his general
education had been much neglected, and that throughout his life he remained ignorant and superstitious.
Vanity formed a striking trait in the character of Louis. He accepted the most fulsome compliments
and delighted to be known as the "Grand Monarch" and the "Sun-king."

COURT OF LOUIS XIV AT VERSAILLES

Louis gathered around him a magnificent court, which he located at Versailles, near Paris.
Here a whole royal city, with palaces, parks, groves, and fountains, sprang into being at his
fiat. Here the "Grand Monarch" lived surrounded by crowds of fawning courtiers. The French
nobles now spent little time on their country estates; they preferred to remain at Versailles
in attendance on the king, to whose favor they owed offices, pensions, and honors.

LOUIS XIV, THE KING

Louis taught and put into practice the doctrine of divine right. In his memoirs he declares
that the king is God's representative and for his actions is answerable to God alone. The famous
saying, "I am the State," [6] though not uttered by Louis, accurately expressed his conviction
that in him was embodied the power and greatness of France. Few monarchs have tried harder
to justify their despotic rule. He was fond of gaiety and sport, but he never permitted himself
to be turned away from the punctual discharge of his royal duties. Until the close of his reign--the
longest in the annals of Europe--Louis devoted from five to nine hours a day to what he called
the "trade of a king."

ABSOLUTISM IN FRANCE

Conditions in France made possible the despotism of Louis. Richelieu and Mazarin had labored
with great success to strengthen the crown at the expense of the nobles and the commons. The
nation had no Parliament to represent it and voice its demands, for the Estates-General [7]
had not been summoned since 1614 A.D. It did not meet again till 1789 A.D., just before the
outbreak of the French Revolution. In France there was no Magna Carta to protect the liberties
of the people by limiting the right of a ruler to impose taxes at will. The French, furthermore,
lacked independent law courts which could interfere with the king's power of exiling, imprisoning,
or executing his subjects. Thus absolute monarchy became so firmly rooted in France that a
revolution was necessary to overthrow it.

243. FRANCE UNDER LOUIS XIV

COLBERT

No absolute ruler, however conscientious and painstaking, can shoulder the entire burden of
government. Louis XIV necessarily had to rely very much on his ministers, of whom Colbert was
the most eminent. Colbert, until his death in 1683 A.D., gave France the best administration
it had ever known. His reforming hand was especially felt in the finances. He made many improvements
in the methods of tax-collection and turned the annual deficit in the revenues into a surplus.
One of Colbert's innovations, now adopted by all European states, was the budget system. Before
his time expenditures had been made at random, without consulting the treasury receipts. Colbert
drew up careful estimates, one year in advance, of the probable revenues and expenditures,
so that outlay would never exceed income.

COLBERT'S ECONOMIC MEASURES

Although the science of economics or political economy was little developed in the seventeenth
century, Colbert realized that the chief object of a minister of finance should be the increase
of the national wealth. Hence he tried in every way to foster manufactures and commerce. Among
other measures Colbert placed heavy duties on the importation of foreign products, as a means
of protecting the "infant industries" of France. This was the inauguration of the protective
system, since followed by many European countries and from Europe introduced into America.
Colbert regarded protectionism as only a temporary device, however, and spoke of tariffs as
crutches by the help of which manufacturers might learn to walk and then throw them away.

COLBERT AND COLONIAL EXPANSION

Colbert shared the erroneous views of most economists of his age in supposing that the wealth
of a country is measured by the amount of gold and silver which it possesses. He wished, therefore,
to provide the French with colonies, where they could obtain the products which they had previously
been obliged to purchase from the Spaniards, Dutch, and English. At this time many islands
in the West Indies were acquired, Canada was developed, and Louisiana, the vast territory drained
by the Mississippi, was opened up to settlement. France, under Colbert, became one of the leading
colonial powers of Europe.

REVOCATION OF THE EDICT OF NANTES, 1685 A.D.

As long as Colbert lived, he kept on good terms with the Huguenots, who formed such useful
and industrious subjects. But Louis hated them as heretics and suspected them of little love
for absolute monarchy. To Louis religious unity in the state seemed as necessary as political
unity. Accordingly, he revoked in 1685 A.D. the Edict of Nantes, [8] after the French for almost
a century had enjoyed religious toleration. The Huguenots were allowed to keep their Protestant
faith, but their freedom of worship was taken away and was not restored till the time of the
French Revolution. The Protestants in France to-day are about as numerous, in proportion to
the Roman Catholic population, as they were under Louis XIV.

EMIGRATION OF THE HUGUENOTS

The revocation of the Edict of Nantes resulted in a considerable emigration of Huguenots from
France. What was a loss to that country was a gain to England and Holland, where the Huguenots
settled and where they introduced their arts and trades. Prussia, also, profited by the emigration
of the Huguenots. Many of them went to Berlin, and that capital owed the beginning of its importance
to its Huguenot population. Louis by his bigotry thus strengthened the chief Protestant foes
of France.

ART UNDER LOUIS XIV

Louis was a generous patron of art. French painters and sculptors led the world at this time.
One of his architects, Mansard, invented the mansard roof, which has been largely used in France
and other European countries. This architectural device makes it possible to provide extra
rooms at a small expense, without adding an additional story to the building. Among the monuments
of Louis's reign are the Hotel des Invalides, [9] now the tomb of Napoleon, additions to the
Louvre, [10] perhaps the masterpiece of all modern architecture, and the huge palace of Versailles.
Louis also founded the Gobelins manufactory, so celebrated for fine carpets, furniture, and
metal work.

LITERATURE UNDER LOUIS XIV

The long list of French authors who flourished during the reign of Louis includes Moliere,
the greatest of French dramatists, La Fontaine, whose fables are still popular, Perrault, now
remembered for his fairy tales, and Madame de Sevigne, whose letters are regarded as models
of French prose. Probably the most famous work composed at this time is the Memoirs of Saint-Simon.
It presents an intimate and not very flattering picture of the "Grand Monarch" and his court.

LEARNING UNDER LOUIS XIV

Louis and his ministers believed that the government should encourage research and the diffusion
of knowledge. Richelieu founded and Colbert fostered the French Academy. Its forty members,
sometimes called the "Immortals," are chosen for their eminent contributions to language and
literature. The great dictionary of the French language, on which they have labored for more
than two centuries, is still unfinished. The academy now forms a section of the Institute of
France. The patronage of Colbert also did much to enrich the National Library at Paris. It
contains the largest collection of books in the world.

THE AGE OF LOUIS XIV

The brilliant reign of the French king cast its spell upon the rest of Europe. Kings and princes
looked to Louis as the model of what a king should be and set themselves to imitate the splendor
of his court. During this period the French language, manners, dress, art, literature, and
science became the accepted standards of good society in all civilized lands. France still
retains in large measure the preeminent position which she secured under the "Grand Monarch."

244. THE WARS OF LOUIS XIV

AMBITIOUS DESIGNS OF LOUIS XIV

How unwise it may be to concentrate all authority in the hands of one man is shown by the melancholy
record of the wars of Louis XIV. To aggrandize France and gain fame for himself, Louis plunged
his country into a series of struggles from which it emerged completely exhausted. Like Philip
II, Louis dreamed of dominating all western Europe, but, as in Philip's case, his aggressions
provoked against him a constantly increasing body of allies, who in the end proved too strong
even for the king's able generals and fine armies.

THE BALANCE OF POWER

The union of the smaller and weaker countries of Europe against France illustrates the principle
of the balance of power. According to this principle no state ought to become so strong as
to overshadow the rest. In such a case all the others must combine against it and treat it
as a common enemy. The maintenance of the balance of power has been a leading object of European
diplomacy from the time of the Thirty Years' War to the present day.

FRENCH MILITARISM

Louis himself lacked military talent and did not take a prominent part in any campaign. He
was served, however, by very able commanders, including Conde and Turenne. Vauban, an eminent
engineer, especially developed the art of siege craft. It was said of Vauban that he never
besieged a fortress without taking it and never lost one which he defended. Louvois, the war
minister of the king, recruited, equipped, and provisioned larger bodies of troops than ever
before had appeared on European battlefields. It was Louvois who introduced the use of distinctive
uniforms for soldiers and the custom of marching in step. He also established field hospitals
and ambulances and placed camp life on a sanitary basis. The labors of these men gave Louis
the best standing army of the age.

THE RHINE BOUNDARY

Of the four great wars which filled a large part of Louis's reign, all but the last were designed
to extend the dominions of France on the east and northeast to the Rhine. That river in ancient
times had separated Gaul and Germany, and Louis, as well as Richelieu and Mazarin before him,
regarded it as a natural boundary of France. A beginning in this direction had already been
made at the close of the Thirty Years' War, when France gained nearly all of Alsace and secured
the recognition of her old claims to the bishoprics of Metz, Toul, and Verdun in Lorraine.
A treaty which Mazarin negotiated with Spain in 1659 A.D. also gave France most of Artois,
as well as part of Flanders. Louis thus had a good basis of further advance through Lorraine
and the Netherlands to the Rhine.

TWO WARS FOR THE RHINE, 1667-1678 A.D.

The French king began his aggressions by an effort to annex the Belgian or Spanish Netherlands,
which then belonged to Spain. [11] A triple alliance of Holland, England, and Sweden forced
him to relinquish all his conquests, except a few frontier towns (1668 A.D.). Louis blamed
the Dutch for his setback, and determined to punish them. Moreover, the Dutch represented everything
to which he was opposed, for Holland was a republic, the keen rival of France in trade, and
Protestant in religion. By skillful diplomacy he persuaded England and Sweden to stand aloof,
while his armies entered Holland and drew near to Amsterdam At this critical moment William,
Prince of Orange, became the Dutch leader. He was a descendant of that William the Silent,
who, a century before, had saved the Dutch out of the hands of Spain. When urged to submit,
seeing that his country was surely lost, William replied, "I know one way of never seeing it,
and that way is to die on the last dike." By William's orders the Dutch cut the dikes and interposed
a watery barrier to further advance by the French. Then he formed another Continental coalition,
which carried on the war till Louis signified his desire for peace. The Dutch did not lose
a foot of territory, but Spain was obliged to cede to France the important province of Franche
Comte (1678 A.D.).

A THIRD WAR, 1689-1697 A.D.

Ten years later Louis again sought to gain additional territory along the Rhine, but again
an alliance of Spain, Holland, England, and the Holy Roman Empire compelled 1689-1697 him to
sue for peace (1697 A.D.). [12] During the course of the war the French inflicted a frightful
devastation on the Rhenish Palatinate, so that it might not support armies for the invasion
of France. Twelve hundred towns and villages were destroyed, and the countryside was laid waste.
The responsibility for this barbarous act rests upon Louvois who advised it and Louis who allowed
it.

THE SPANISH SUCCESSION

Thus far the European balance of power had been preserved, but it was now threatened in another
direction. Charles II, the king of Spain, lay dying, and as he was without children or brothers
to succeed him, all Europe wondered what would be the fate of his vast possessions in Europe
and America. Louis had married one of his sisters, and the Holy Roman Emperor another, so both
the Bourbons and the Austrian Hapsburgs could put forth claims to the Spanish throne. When
Charles died, it was found that he had left his entire dominions to Philip of Anjou, one of
Louis's grandsons, in the hope that the power of France might be great enough to keep them
undivided. Though Louis knew that acceptance of the inheritance would involve a war with Austria
and probably with England, whose king was now Louis's old foe, William of Orange, [13] ambition
triumphed over fear and the desire for glory over consideration for the welfare of France.
At Versailles Louis proudly presented his grandson to the court, saying, "Gentlemen, behold
the king of Spain."

WAR OF THE SPANISH SUCCESSION, 1702-1713 A.D.

In the War of the Spanish Succession France and Spain faced the Grand Alliance, which included
England, Holland, Austria, several of the German states, and Portugal. Europe had never known
a war that concerned so many countries and peoples. The English ruler, William III, died shortly
after the outbreak of hostilities, leaving the continuance of the contest as a legacy to his
sister-in-law, Queen Anne. [14] England supplied the coalition with funds, a fleet, and also
with the ablest commander of the age, the duke of Marlborough. In Eugene, prince of Savoy,
the allies had another skillful and daring general. The great victory gained by them at Blenheim
in 1704 A.D. was the first of a series of successes which finally drove the French out of Germany
and Italy and opened the road to Paris. But dissensions among the allies and the heroic resistance
of France and Spain enabled Louis to hold the enemy at bay, until the exhaustion of both sides
led to the conclusion of the Peace of Utrecht.

PEACE OF UTRECHT, 1713 A.D.

This peace ranks with that of Westphalia among the most important diplomatic arrangements of
modern times. First, Louis's grandson, Philip V, was recognized as king of Spain and her colonies,
on condition that the Spanish and French crowns should never be united. Since this time Bourbon
sovereigns have continued to rule in Spain. Next, the Austrian Hapsburgs gained most of the
Spanish dominions in Italy, as well as the Belgian or Spanish Netherlands (henceforth for a
century called the Austrian Netherlands). Finally, England obtained from France possessions
in North America, and from Spain the island of Minorca and the rock of Gibraltar, commanding
the narrow entrance to the Mediterranean. England has never since relaxed her hold upon Gibraltar.

BRANDENBURG AND PRUSSIA

Two of the smaller members of the Grand Alliance likewise profited by the Peace of Utrecht.
The right of the elector of Brandenburg to enjoy the title of king of Prussia was acknowledged.
This formed an important step in the fortunes of the Hohenzollern [15] dynasty, which to-day
rules over Germany. The duchy of Savoy also became a kingdom and received the island of Sicily
(shortly afterwards exchanged for Sardinia). The house of Savoy in the nineteenth century provided
Italy with its present reigning family.

POSITION OF FRANCE

France lost far less by the war than at one time seemed probable. Louis gave up his dream of
dominating Europe, but he kept all the Continental acquisitions made earlier in his reign.
And yet the price of the king's warlike policy had been a heavy one. France paid it in the
shape of famine and pestilence, excessive taxes, heavy debts, and the impoverishment of the
people. Louis, now a very old man, survived the Peace of Utrecht only two years. As he lay
on his deathbed, the king turned to his little heir [16] and said, "Try to keep peace with
your neighbors. I have been too fond of war; do not imitate me in that, nor in my too great
expenditure." These words of the dying king showed an appreciation of the errors which robbed
his long reign of much of its glory.

.

245. THE ABSOLUTISM OF THE STUARTS, 1603-1642 A.D.

TUDOR ABSOLUTISM

During the same century which saw the triumph of absolutism and divine right in France, a successful
struggle took place in England against the unlimited power of kings. Absolutism in England
dated from the time of the Tudors. Henry VII humbled the nobles, while Henry VIII and Elizabeth
brought the Church into dependence on the crown. [17] These three sovereigns were strong and
forceful, but they were also excellent rulers and popular with the influential middle class
in town and country. The Tudors gave England order and prosperity, if not political liberty.

PARLIAMENT UNDER THE TUDORS

The English Parliament in the thirteenth century had become a body representative of all classes
of the people, and in the fourteenth century it had separated into the two houses of Lords
and Commons. [18] Parliament enjoyed considerable authority at this time. The kings, who were
in continual need of money, summoned it frequently, sought its advice upon important questions,
and readily listened to its requests. The despotic Tudors, on the other hand, made Parliament
their servant. Henry VII called it together on only five occasions during his reign; Henry
VIII persuaded or frightened it into doing anything he pleased; and Elizabeth seldom consulted
it. Parliament under the Tudors did not abandon its old claims to a share in the government,
but it had little chance to exercise them.

JAMES I, KING, 1603-1625 A.D.

The death of Elizabeth in 1603 A.D. ended the Tudor dynasty and placed the Stuarts on the English
throne in the person of James I. [19] England and Scotland were now joined in a personal union,
though each country retained its own Parliament, laws, and state Church. The new king was well
described by a contemporary as the "wisest fool in Christendom." He had a good mind and abundant
learning, but throughout his reign he showed an utter inability to win either the esteem or
the affection of his subjects. This was a misfortune, for the English had now grown weary of
despotism and wanted more freedom. They were not prepared to tolerate in James, an alien, many
things which they had overlooked in "Good Queen Bess."

JAMES I ON DIVINE RIGHT

One of the most fruitful sources of discord between James and the English people was his exalted
conception of monarchy. The Tudors, indeed, claimed to rule by divine right, but James went
further than they in arguing for divine hereditary right. Providence, James declared, had chosen
the principle of heredity in order to fix the succession to the throne. This principle, being
divine, lay beyond the power of man to alter. Whether the king was fit or unfit to rule, Parliament
might not change the succession, depose a sovereign, or limit his authority in any way.

JAMES I AND PARLIAMENT

Naturally enough, the extreme pretensions of James encountered much opposition from Parliament.
That body felt little sympathy for a ruler who proclaimed himself the source of all law. When
James, always extravagant and a poor financier, came before it for money, Parliament insisted
on its right to withhold supplies until grievances were redressed. James would not yield, and
got along as best he could by levying customs duties, selling titles of nobility, and imposing
excessive fines, in spite of the protests of Parliament. This situation continued to the end
of the king's reign.

JAMES I AND PURITANISM

A religious controversy helped to embitter the dispute between James and Parliament. The king,
who was Puritanism a devout Anglican, made himself very unpopular with the Puritans, as the
reformers within the Church of England were called. The Puritans had no intention of separating
from the national or established Church, but they wished to "purify" it of certain customs
which they described as "Romish" or "papist." Among these were the use of the surplice, of
the ring in the marriage service, and of the sign of the cross in baptism. Some Puritans wanted
to get rid of the Book of Common Prayer altogether. The Puritans were distinguished by their
austere lives. They looked with disfavor on May Day and Christmas festivities, observed the
Jewish Sabbath in all its rigor, and condemned the Anglicans who played games and danced upon
the village green on Sundays. As the Puritans had a large majority in the House of Commons,
it was inevitable that the parliamentary struggle against Stuart absolutism would assume in
part a religious character.

CHARLES I, KING, 1625-1649 A.D.

The political and religious difficulties which marked the reign of James I did not disappear
when his son, Charles I, came to the throne. Charles was a true Stuart in his devotion to absolutism
and divine right. Almost immediately he began to quarrel with Parliament. When that body withheld
supplies, Charles resorted to forced loans from the wealthy and even imprisoned a number of
persons who refused to contribute. Such arbitrary acts showed plainly that Charles would play
the tyrant if he could.

PETITION OF RIGHT, 1628 A.D.

The king's attitude at last led Parliament to a bold assertion of its authority. It now presented
to Charles the celebrated Petition of Right. One of the most important clauses provided that
forced loans without parliamentary sanction should be considered illegal. Another clause declared
that no one should be arrested or imprisoned except according to the law of the land. The Petition
thus repeated and reinforced two of the leading principles of Magna Carta. [20] The people
of England, speaking this time through their elected representatives, asserted once more their
right to limit the power of kings.

PERSONAL RULE OF CHARLES I, 1629-1640 A.D.

Charles signed the Petition, as the only means of securing parliamentary consent to taxation;
but he had no intention of observing it. For the next eleven years he managed to govern without
calling Parliament in session. The conduct of affairs during this period lay largely in the
hands of Sir Thomas Wentworth, afterwards earl of Strafford, and William Laud, who later became
archbishop of Canterbury. The king made these two men his principal advisers and through them
carried on his despotic rule. Arbitrary courts, which tried cases without a jury, punished
those who resisted the royal will. A rigid censorship of the press prevented any expression
of popular discontent. Public meetings were suppressed as seditious riots. Even private gatherings
were dangerous, for the king had swarms of spies to report any disloyal acts or utterances.

JOHN HAMPDEN AND "SHIP-MONEY"

Since Charles ruled without a Parliament, he had to adopt all sorts of devices to fill his
treasury. One of these was the levying of "ship- money." According to an old custom, seaboard
towns and counties had been required to provide ships or money for the royal navy. Charles
revived this custom and extended it to towns and counties lying inland. It seemed clear that
the king meant to impose a permanent tax on all England without the assent of Parliament. The
demand for "ship-money" aroused much opposition, and John Hampden, a wealthy squire of Buckinghamshire,
refused to pay the twenty shillings levied on his estate. Hampden was tried before a court
of the royal judges and was convicted by a bare majority. He became, however, the hero of the
hour. The England people recognized in him one who had dared, for the sake of principle, to
protest against the king's despotic rule.

LAUD'S ECCLESIASTICAL POLICY

Archbishop Laud, the king's chief agent in ecclesiastical matters, detested Puritanism and
aimed to root it out from the Church of England. He put no Puritans to death, but he sanctioned
cruel punishments of those who would not conform to the established Church. All that the dungeon
and the pillory, mutilation and loss of position, could do to break their will was done. While
the restrictions on Puritans were increased, those affecting Roman Catholics were relaxed.
Many people thought that Charles, through Laud and the bishops, was preparing to lead the Church
of England back to Rome. They therefore opposed the king on religious grounds, as well as for
political reasons.

THE LONG PARLIAMENT, 1640 A.D.

But the personal rule of Charles was now drawing to an end. In 1637 A.D. the king, supported
by Archbishop Laud, tried The Long to introduce a modified form of the English prayer book
into Scotland. The Scotch, Presbyterian [21] to the core, drew up a national oath, or Covenant,
by which they bound themselves to resist any attempt to change their religion. Rebellion quickly
passed into open war, and the Covenanters invaded northern England. Charles, helpless, with
a seditious army and an empty treasury, had to summon Parliament in session. It met in 1640
A.D. and did not formally dissolve till twenty years later. Hence it has received the name
of the Long Parliament.

REFORMS OF THE LONG PARLIAMENT

The Long Parliament no sooner assembled than it assumed the conduct of government. The leaders,
including John Hampden, John Pym, and Oliver Cromwell, openly declared that the House of Commons,
and not the king, possessed supreme authority in the state. Parliament began by executing Strafford
and subsequently Laud, thus emphasizing the responsibility of ministers to Parliament. Next,
it abolished Star Chamber and other special courts, which had become engines of royal oppression.
It forbade the levying of "ship-money" and other irregular taxes. It took away the king's right
of dissolving Parliament at his pleasure and ordered that at least one parliamentary session
should be held every three years. These measures stripped the crown of the despotic powers
acquired by the Tudors and the Stuarts.

246. OLIVER CROMWELL AND THE CIVIL WAR, 1642-1649 A.D.

OUTBREAK OF THE GREAT REBELLION, 1642 A.D.

Thus far, the Long Parliament had acted along the line of reformation rather than revolution.
Had Charles been content to accept the new arrangements, there would have been little more
trouble. But the proud and imperious king was only watching his chance to strike a blow at
Parliament. Taking advantage of some differences in opinion among its members, Charles summoned
his soldiers, marched to Westminister, and demanded the surrender of five leaders, including
Pym and Hampden. Warned in time, they made their escape, and Charles did not find them in the
chamber of the Commons. "Well, I see all the birds are flown," he exclaimed, and walked out
baffled. The king's attempt to intimidate the Commons was a great blunder. It showed beyond
doubt that he would resort to force, rather than bend his neck to Parliament. Both Charles
and Parliament now began to gather troops and prepare for the inevitable conflict.

"CAVALIERS" AND "ROUND-HEADS"

The opposing parties seemed to be very evenly matched. Around the king rallied nearly all of
the nobles, the Anglican clergy, the Roman Catholics, a majority of the "squires," or country
gentry, and the members of the universities. The royalists received the name of "Cavaliers."
The parliamentarians, or "Roundheads," [22] were mostly recruited from the trading classes
in the towns and the small landowners in the country. The working people remained as a rule
indifferent and took little part in the struggle.

OLIVER CROMWELL, 1599-1658 A.D.

