Not only must the ball always be held in the same way before pitching, but in the act of delivery
the swing of the arm must be identical or so nearly so that the eye of the batter can detect
no difference. All this means that the pitcher must not give the striker the slightest inkling
of the kind of ball to expect, so that he will have the shortest possible time in which to
prepare to hit. I advise against the use of too many different curves. The accomplished twirler
can pitch any kind of curve, but there are some which he seldom employs. It is impossible to
be accurate when too many deliveries are attempted, and accuracy is of far greater importance
than eccentric curves. Almost all professional pitchers now use the overhand delivery and pitch
only a fast, straight ball and a curve. The fast ball, on account of its being thrown overhand
and the twist thereby given, "jumps" in the air, that is, it rises slightly, while the curve,
pitched with the same motion, goes outward and downward. The curve will necessarily be slower
than the straight ball, and this will give all the variation in speed needed to unsettle the
batter's "eye" and confuse him in "timing" the ball. Some pitchers are able, keeping the same
motions, to vary the speed even of the curve and straight balls, but, as before said, this
is apt to be at the expense of accuracy, and should not be attempted by the young player. Occasionally,
say once an inning, a pitcher may make a round arm or underhand motion simply to mislead the
batsman, and if the game is safely won he may use an underhand delivery if he finds it rests
his arm, but these are exceptional instances.

I have already spoken of the importance of accuracy, but it cannot be too strongly emphasized.
The more marked the control of the ball the greater will be the success, for no matter how
many wonderful curves he may be able to get, unless he has perfect command he will never be
a winning pitcher; seasoned batsmen will only laugh at his curves and go to first on balls.
To acquire thorough control requires long and patient practice. A pitcher should always pitch
over something laid down to represent a plate, and if possible get a batter to stand and hit
against him. Let him practice with some method, pitching nothing but a straight ball, and trying
to put it directly over the plate every time. He should not be annoyed if the batter hits him,
as he is only practicing. When a pitcher is able to cut the centre of the plate eight times
out of ten he may begin with his curve and work it in the same way. Finally, when he can also
control the curve, he should try to alternate it with a straight ball. He will find that he
cannot do this at first and retain command of each, but he should keep at it, an hour or more
regularly every day, till he can.

Up to this point he has been learning only the mechanical part of pitching, and if he has learned
it well he is now ready to try his skill and mettle on the field of actual contest. And here
comes in an element not before mentioned, which is called strategy, or "head-work." It means
the attempt to deceive the batter, to outwit him so that he cannot hit safely. This may be
accomplished in many ways, though the particular way best suited to each case can only be determined
at the time by the pitcher himself. It depends, therefore, upon his own cleverness and wits,
and it is not possible for any one else to supply these for him. An intelligent catcher may
help him greatly, but there will still remain many points which he himself must decide. I may
be able, however, to furnish some hints which will indicate the process of reasoning by which
the pitcher may arrive at certain conclusions; I can point out some things he should notice,
and describe what these generally mean.

SIGNALING.

But first as to the question of "signs." Every battery, by which is meant a pitcher and catcher,
must have a perfectly understood private code of signals, so that they may make known their
intentions and wishes to one another without at the same time apprising the opposing players.
The first and, of course, most important of these is the signal by which the catcher is to
know what kind of ball to expect.

There is no necessity of more than one "sign" for this, because all that any experienced catcher
asks is to know when to expect a fast, straight ball; not having received the signal for this,
he will understand that a curve is to be pitched, and the difference in curve or speed will
not bother him after a few moments' practice. Until within a few years this sign was always
given by the pitcher, but now it is almost the universal practice for the catcher to give it
to the pitcher, and if the latter doesn't want to pitch the ball asked for he changes the sign
by a shake of the head. I think the old method was the better, because it is certainly the
business of the pitcher not only to do the pitching, but to use his own judgment in deceiving
the batsman. He should not act as a mere automaton to throw the ball; moreover, the catcher
has enough of his own to attend to without assuming any of the duties of the pitcher. Of course,
if the pitcher is young and inexperienced, while the catcher is seasoned and better acquainted
with the weak points of batters, the latter will be the better one to signal. It may be thought
that the right of the pitcher to reverse the sign by a shake of the head practically gives
him the same control as though he himself gave the signs, but this is not strictly true; it
is impossible for the pitcher not to be more or less influenced by the catcher's sign, and
he will often pitch against his own judgment. At least I found this to be true in my own experience,
and therefore always preferred myself to do the "signing." If the pitcher gives this sign he
must be careful to choose one that will not be discovered by the other side, for there are
certain players always watching for such points. Some years ago the Chicago Club gave me the
roughest kind of handling in several games, and Kelly told me this winter that they knew every
ball I intended to pitch, and he even still remembered the sign and told me what it was. Chicago
finished first that year and we were a close second. That point which they gained upon me may
have cost Providence the championship, for they beat us badly in the individual series. When
I suspected a club of knowing my sign I used a "combination," that is, I gave two signs; either
one of them given separately was not to be understood as a signal at all, but both had to be
given together. I found this to work admirably, and it was never discovered by any club, so
far as I know. If it be agreed that the catcher is to give this sign, it is still not necessary
that the pitcher be entirely influenced by him. The pitcher should rely upon his own discretion,
and not hesitate to change the sign whenever his judgment differs from that of the catcher.

There are certain signs which the catcher gives to basemen when there are runners on the bases,
and with these, too, the pitcher must be perfectly familiar, so that he may be able to pitch
the ball in accordance with what is about to be done. For instance, if the catcher has signaled
to the first baseman that he will throw there, he will probably ask the pitcher for an out
curve. In order, then, to help him out with the play and give him plenty of room, the pitcher
will not only pitch the out curve asked, but he will keep it well out and wide of the plate,
so that it can't possibly be hit, and he will pitch it at the height where it may be best handled
by the catcher. So, too, if there is a runner on first who is likely to attempt to steal second,
he will "pitch for the catcher," and he should shorten his pitching motion so as to give the
catcher as much time as possible to throw. When runners "steal" on a catcher it is oftener
not so much his fault as the pitcher's. It is almost impossible to make a clean steal of second,
even with a very ordinary thrower behind the bat, if the pitcher will not give the runner too
much "start."

The pitcher should also receive a signal from the catcher notifying him when to throw to second
base to catch a runner leading off too far. This point will, however, be noticed more appropriately
under the duties of "The Catcher."

As for the other bases, first and third, the pitcher should look after them himself without
any signal from the catcher. I could always stand in the pitcher's position facing the batter
and still see out of "the corner of my eye" how much ground the runner on first base was taking.
As the baseman is already on the base, there is no necessity of notifying him of an intention
to throw, so, watching the opportunity, I would throw across my body without first having changed
the position of my feet or body at all. The throw is, of course, not so swift as by first wheeling
toward the base and then throwing, but it will catch a runner oftener. "Smiling Mickey" Welch
plays the point to perfection, and last season caught many men "napping" in this way. Its advantage
is that it is entirely legitimate. Some pitchers, in order to catch a runner at first, make
a slight forward movement, visible to the runner but not to the umpire, as if about to pitch.
This, of course, starts the runner, and before he can recover, the pitcher has turned and thrown
to first. Notwithstanding the strictest prohibition last season of any motion even "calculated"
to deceive the runner, there were umpires weak- kneed enough to allow these balks.

The easiest men to catch are the best base-runners, because they are always anxious to "get
away," and they take the most chances. An ambitious runner will keep moving up and down the
line trying to get his start. The pitcher should not appear to notice him, pretending to be
interested only in the batter, but watching the runner closely all the time. Suddenly, and
without the least warning, he should snap the ball to the baseman. If the pitcher will choose
a time when the runner is on the move away from the base the batter will be off his balance
and may be caught before he can recover.

For the third base it may be advisable to have a signal with the baseman to notify him of a
throw. It is very seldom possible to catch a runner off third by a throw from the pitcher,
though it may sometimes be done. Clarkson and Galvin both accomplish it at times, though they
always do it by the aid of a "balk." Clarkson's method is this: With a runner on first and
one on third, the man on first will usually try to steal second, and if the ball is thrown
there to catch him, the runner on third tries to score. In this situation Clarkson makes a
slight forward movement of the body as though about to pitch, and the runner on third, being
anxious to get all possible ground, moves forward. With the same motion, and before the runner
can recover, Clarkson, by a prior understanding with the third baseman, throws to the base,
the baseman meets the ball there, and before the runner has quite realized what has happened,
he is "out." I have reason to know the working of this little scheme, because I was caught
by it in Chicago last season in a very close game. The "balk" was palpable, and I made a strenuous
"kick," but the umpire refused to see it that way.

A pitcher should not be misled by what I have said into too much throwing to bases. He should
throw only when there is a fair chance of making the put-out; for all other purposes, as to
hold the runner close to the base, a feint will answer just as well and does not entail the
possibility of an error.

STRATEGY.

A strategic pitcher is one who depends for success not simply on speed and curves, but who
outwits the batsman by skill, who deceives his eye, and plays upon his weaknesses. What will
be the best method for a particular case must be decided in each instance by the pitcher himself,
and his success will depend upon his judgment and cleverness. But while no general rule can
be laid down, I may still be able to offer some useful suggestions.

Assuming that a pitcher has never seen the batters whom he is about to face, there are certain
points to be noted as each of them takes his place at the bat. First, his position and manner
of holding his bat should be observed. If he carries it over his shoulder and in an almost
perpendicular position, the chances are that he is naturally a high ball hitter and is looking
for that kind of a pitch, because that is the position of the bat from which a high ball is
most easily hit. If, on the contrary, he carries his bat in a more nearly horizontal position,
he is ready either to "chop" over at a high ball, or "cut" under at a low one, the chances
being that he prefers the latter. Of still more importance is his movement in hitting, and
this the pitcher must try to discover before the batter has hit the ball at all. An out-curve
should be pitched just out of his reach; being so near where he wants it, it will draw him
out and he will make every movement, except the swing of the bat, as in hitting. This movement
should be carefully noted. If, in stepping forward to hit, he also steps away from the plate
toward the third base, it is at once a point in the pitcher's favor. The batsman is timid and
afraid of being hit. If, however, he steps confidently forward, almost directly toward the
pitcher, he is a dangerous man and all the pitcher's skill will be needed to outwit him. Again,
if in stepping forward he makes a very long stride, it is another point for the pitcher, because
it shows that he is not only anxious to hit but means to hit hard, and such a man is easily
deceived. But if he makes a short stride, keeping easily his balance and standing well upright,
he is more than likely a good hitter, even though he steps away from the plate, and if in addition
to stepping short he also steps toward the pitcher, the pitcher should look out for him.

Without going into too much detail I will try to illustrate: If my batter is one who steps
away from the plate I will pitch a fast, straight ball in over his shoulder too high and too
far in to be hit. The next time he will step still further away, but this time I should put
a fast, straight one over the outside corner of the plate. From his position he will probably
not be able to reach it at all, or if he does he will hit with no force. I might pitch the
next ball in the same place, and then I should consider it time to drive him away from the
plate again and I would send the next one in over his shoulder as before. He may hit at one
of these high "in" balls, but if he does he will probably not touch it; at any rate, another
fast, straight one over the outside corner ought to dispose of him. It will be observed I have
not thrown a single curve, nor would I to such a batter except occasionally, say two or three
during the game, and then only to keep him "guessing."

