Mary as yet had not realized the full portent of the soldiery and the mob. When it was approaching
it had occurred to her that it might be another triumphal escort, such as she had once seen
surround him on his way to a feast. As it advanced, the roar bewildered, and she had ceased
to conjecture; then the Master had fallen, and the old Jew had vomited his slime. At the moment
it was that, and that only, which had impressed her, and she had answered with the force of
that new strength which suddenly she had found. But now at the sight of the women beating their
breasts, and the blood-stained face of the Master, an inkling came to her; she stared open-mouthed
at the cross, at Calcol, and at the executioners that were there.

Then immediately that horrible longing to know the worst beset her, and she darted to where
the centurion stood.

“What is it?” she gasped. “What are you to do with him?”

By way of answer Calcol extended his arms straight out from either side, his head thrown back.
He was a good-natured ruffian, with clear and pleasant eyes.

“Not crucify?” she cried. “Tell me, it is not that?”

Calcol nodded. To him one Jew more, one Jew less, was immaterial, provided he had his pay,
and the prospect of a return to Rome was not too long delayed. Yet none the less in some misty
way he wondered why this woman, with her splendid hair and scorching eyes, should have upbraided
the tetrarch and abused the procurator because of the friendless Galilean whom he was leading
to the cross. Woman to him, however, was, as she has been to others wiser than he, an enigma
he failed to solve. And so he nodded merely, not unkindly, and smiled in Mary’s face.

The horrible longing now was stilled. She knew the worst; yet as the knowledge of it penetrated
her being, it seemed to her as though it could not be true, that she was the plaything of some
hallucination, her mind inhabited by a nightmare from which she must presently awake. The howl
of the impatient mob undeceived her. It was real; it was actual; it was life. She stared at
Calcol, her fair mouth agape. There were many things she wanted to say; her thoughts teemed
with arguments, her mind with persuasions; but she could utter nothing; she was as one struck
dumb; and it was not until the centurion smiled that the spell dissolved and the power of speech
returned.

“Ah, that never; you shall kill me first!” she cried. And already she saw herself circumventing
the centurion, blinding the soldiery, defying the mob, and leading the Master through byways
and underground passages out of the accursed city into the fresh glades of Gethsemane, over
the hill, down the hollows to the Jordan, and into the desert beyond. There was one spot she
knew very well; one that only a bird could find; one that she would mention to no one, but
to which she could take him and keep him hidden there in the brakes till night came, and the
fording of the river was safe.

“That never!” she cried. And brushing Bernice off, she caught the Master by the cloak. “Come
with me,” she murmured. “I know a way——”

And she would have dragged him perhaps, regardless of the others, but the centurion had her
by the arm.

“See here, my pretty friend, your place is not here.”

With a twist he sent her spinning back to Baba Barbulah’s wall.

“March!” he ordered.

The soldiery, disarranged, fell in line. The two robbers picked up their burden. The Master
turned to Mary, to the others as well, with that expression which he alone possessed, that
look which both promised and assuaged, and, it may be, would have said some word of encouragement,
but Mary was at his side again, her hand upon his cloak.

“It shall never be,” she repeated. “They must kill me first.”

Calcol wheeled. His short sword glistened, reversed, and her cheek was laid open by the hilt.
She staggered back. The soldiery moved on. The women surrounded her and stanched the wound.
To her the blow held the difference between a cut and a cancer; she knew that it could never
heal; and, as the blood poured down her face, for the first time she divined the uselessness
of revolt.

Presently a wave of the mob caught her, separating her from the other women, and carrying her
in its eddy through the gate, into the valley and on to the hillock beyond. On one side were
the glimmer of fires, the smell of smoke, of offal too. On the infrequent trees vultures perched.
To the right was a nest of gardens and of tombs.

In the eddies Mary lost foothold and lagged a little to the rear. When she reached Gülgolta
the soldiery had formed three sides of a square. In it were the executioners, the prisoners,
and the centurion. At the place where a fourth side might have been a steep decline began.

Within the square three crosses lay; before them the prisoners stood, stripped of their clothing
now, and naked.

The Sanhedrim was grouped about that side of the square which leaned to the south, the horned
bonnet of Caiaphas towering its lacework above the others. To the wide and cruel corners of
his mouth had come the calm of a cheetah devouring its prey. At the outer angle, to the right,
the standard of the empire swayed; and from an oak two vultures soared with a scream into the
air, their eyes fixed on the vision of bare white flesh.

Through the ranks an elder passed. In his hand was a gourd, which he offered to one of the thieves.

“Drink of it, Dysmas,” he invited. “In it grains of frankincense have been dissolved.”

To the rear Annas nodded his approval. His lean, lank jaws parted. “Give strong drink,” he
announced, authoritatively; “give strong and heady drink to those about to die, and wine to
those that sorrow.”

Dysmas drank abundantly of the soporific, and held the gourd to his comrade.

“Take it, Stegas.”

As the second thief raised it to his lips, with a motion of arm and knee an executioner caught
Dysmas beneath the chin, behind the leg, and the thief lay on a cross. In a second his wrists
were bound, his feet as well. There was the blow of a hammer on a nail, a spurt of blood from
the open hand; another blow, another spurt; and the cross, upraised, settled in a cavity already
prepared, a beam behind it for support.

Stegas, his thirst slaked, fell as Dysmas had, and the elder caught the gourd and offered it
to the Christ. If he had been tempted in the desert, as rumor alleged, the temptation could
have been as nothing in comparison to the enticements of that cup. It held relief from thought,
from the acutest pain that flesh can know, from life, from death.

He waved it aside. The executioner started with surprise; but he had his duty to perform, and,
recovering himself, he caught the Christ, and in a moment he too was down, his hands transfixed,
the cross upraised. The blood dripped leisurely on the sand beneath. Across his features a
shadow passed and vanished. His lips moved.

“Father,” he murmured, “forgive them; they know not what they do.”

Calcol gave an order. Over the heads of Dysmas and of Stegas the sanis were affixed, wooden
tablets smeared with gypsum, bearing the name of the crucified and with it the offence. They
were simple and terse; but above the Christ appeared a legend in three tongues, in Aramaic,
in Greek, and in Latin:

                       [Aramaic: Mâlkâ dî Jehudâje]

                        Ὁ βασιλεὺς τῶν Ἰουδαίων.

                              Rex Judæorum.

Caiaphas sprang back as from the point of a sword.

“Mâlkâ dî Jehudâje!” he bellowed. “King of the Jews! It is a blasphemy, an iniquity, and an
outrage. Centurion, tear it down.”

Calcol shrugged his shoulders, and pointed to the palace. “What the procurator has written
he has written,” he answered.

In the tone, in the gesture that preceded it, and in its impertinence Caiaphas read Pilate’s
one yet supreme revenge, the expression of his absolute contempt for the whole Sanhedrim and
the nation that it ruled.

From the rear the mob jumped at the title as at a catchword. To them the irony of the procurator
presumably was lost.

“King of the Jews!” they shouted. “Mâlkâ dî Jehudâje, come down from your cross!”

It was a great festival, and as they jeered at Jesus they enjoyed themselves hugely.

In their vast delight the voice of Stegas was drowned.

“I am a Roman citizen,” he kept repeating, his head swaying, and indicating with his eyes the
wounds in his hands, the torture he endured. “Kill me,” he implored. And finding entreaty idle,
he reviled the centurion, cursed the soldiery, and would have spat at them, but to his burning
throat no spittle came.

The tongue of Dysmas lolled from his mouth. He had not the ability to speak, even if in speech
relief could come. Flame licked at his flesh, his joints were severing, each artery was a nerve
exposed, and something was crunching his brain. He could no longer groan; he could suffer merely,
such suffering as hell perhaps has failed to contrive, that apogee of agony which it was left
for man to devise.

Stegas, catching the refrain the mob repeated, turned his eyes from the soldiery to the adjacent
cross.

“If you are as they say,” he cried, “save yourself and us.”

As a taunt to Caiaphas, Calcol echoed, “Behold your king!” and raising a stalk of hyssop, on
which was a sponge that he had dipped in the posca, the thin wine the soldiers drink, he offered
it to the Christ.

The sun was nearing the horizon. Caiaphas gathered his ample folds about him. He had seen enough.
The feast, wretchedly embittered, was nearly done. There was another at which he must officiate:
the shofa presently would sound; the skewering of the Paschal lamb it was needful for him to
superintend. It was time, he knew, to return to the Temple; and as he gave a last indignant
look at the placard, the lips of the Christ parted to one despairing cry:

“Elî, Elî, lemâh shebâktanî?”

Caiaphas, nodding to the elders, smiled with satisfaction.

At last the false pretender was forced to acknowledge the invalidity of his claims. The Father
whose son he vaunted himself to be had disowned him when his recognition was needed, if ever
it had been needed at all. And so, with the smile of one whose labor has had its recompense,
Caiaphas patted his skirt, and the elders about him strolled back through the Gannath Gate
to the Temple that awaited him.

The multitude meanwhile had decreased. To the crowd also the Temple had its attractions, its
duties, and its offices. Moreover, the spectacle was at an end. With a blow of the mallet the
legs of the thieves had been broken. They had died without a shriek, a thing to be regretted.
The Galilean too, pierced by the level stroke of a spear, had succumbed without a word. Sundown
was approaching. Clearly it was best to be within the walls where other gayeties were. The
mob dispersed, leaving behind but the dead, the circling vultures, a group of soldiers throwing
dice for the garments of the crucified, and, remotely, a group of women huddled beneath a protecting
oak.

During the hour or two that intervened, the force which had visited Mary evaporated in strength
overtaxed. She was conscious only that she suffocated. The words of the women that had drawn
her to them were empty as blanks in a dream; the jeers of the mob vacant as an empty bier.
To but one thing was she alive, the fact that death could be. Little by little, as the impossible
merged into the actual, the understanding came to her that the worst that could be had been
done, and she ceased to suffer. The departing hierarchy, the dispersing mob, retreating before
encroaching night, left her unimpressed. To her the setting sun was Christ.

The soldiers passed. She did not see them. Calcol called to her. She did not hear. The women
had gone from her; she did not notice it. She stood as a cataleptic might, her eyes on the
cross. Once only, when the Christ had uttered his despairing cry, she too had cried in her
despair. In the roar of the mob the cry was lost as a stone tossed in the sea. Since then she
had been dumb, sightless also, existing, if at all, unconsciously, her life-springs nourished
by death.

Though she gazed at the cross, she had ceased to distinguish it. A little group that had reached
it before the soldiery left had been unmarked by her. On the platform of her dream a serpent
had emerged. In its coils were her immortal hopes. It was that she saw, and that alone. Those
moments of agony in which the imagination oscillates between the past and the future, devouring
the one, fumbling the other, had been endured, and resignation failed to bring its balm. She
had believed with a faith so firm that now in its demolition there was nothing left—an abyss
merely, where light was not.

A hand touched her, and she quivered as a leaf does at the wing of a bird. “Mary, come with
us,” some one was saying; “we are taking him to a tomb.”

Just beyond were men and women whom she knew. Joseph of Haramathaïm, a close follower of the
Master; Nikodemon, the richest man in all Judæa; Johanna, Mary Clopas, Salomè, Bernice, and
the servants of the opulent Jew. It was Ahulah who had touched her; and as Mary started she
saw before her a coffin which the others bore.

“Come with us,” Ahulah repeated; and Mary crossed the intervening ridge to where the gardens
were and the tombs she had already passed.

At the door of a sepulchre the brief procession halted. Within was a room, a little grotto
furnished with a stone slab and a lamp that flickered, surmounted by an arch. The coffin, placed
on the slab, routed a bat that flew to the arch, and a lizard that scurried to a crevice. In
the coffin the Christ lay, his head wrapped in a napkin, the body wound about by broad bands
of linen that were secured with gum and impregnated with spices and with myrrh. The odor of
aromatics filled the tomb. The bat escaped to the night. A stone was rolled before the opening,
the brief procession withdrew, and Mary was left with the dead.

The momentary exertion, the bier, the sepulchre, the sight of the Christ in his cerements,
the brooding quiet—these things had roused her. Her mind was nimbler, and thought more active.
One by one the stars appeared. They would vanish, she told herself, as her hopes had done.
Only they would reappear, and belief could not. It had come as a rainbow does, and disappeared
as vaporously, little by little, before the full glare of might. For a minute, hours perhaps,
she stood quite still, interrogating the past in which so much had been, gauging the future
in which so much was to be. The one retreated, the other fled. Thoughts came to her evanescently,
and faded before they were wholly formed. At one moment she was beckoning the unicorns from
the desert, the winged lions from the yonderland, commanding them to bear her to the home of
some immense revenge. At others she was asking her way of griffins, propounding the problem
to the Sphinx. But the unicorns and lions took flight, the griffins spread their wings, the
Sphinx fell asleep. There was no answer to her appeal.

