 

The Romans, who gave an important undertaking, when he met a anti-bird flight was therefore quite
right; he abides by his conditions. But if he distance from the firm because he stumbled on
the threshold of his door was ("Un Romain retournerait "), he was absolutely superior to us
infidels, a better soul caster, as we strive to be. For this trip it was the existence of a doubt,
a Prove counter-flow in its interior, its power is the moment of execution of the could pull
off strength of his intention. The full success is one that is only safe if all the powers
of the soul united again toward the desired goal. As Schiller replies Tell, who hesitated for
so long to shoot the apple from the head of his boys, the question the bailiff, for which
he inserted the second arrow?

    "This second arrow I pierced - you, If I had taken
    my dear child, And your - really - if I had
    not been lacking. "

IV As I recently had the opportunity a philosophically educated colleagues some examples forgetting
of names put forward with analysis, he hastened to say: This is very nice but for me the name is
to forget otherwise. So easily one can not make it seem; I do not think that my colleague had ever
previously thought of a name analysis of forgetting; He could not say how it happens with
him otherwise. But his remark is still a problem that many will be inclined to put in the foreground.
Exceeds here given resolution of errors and random acts generally, or only few, and if the latter,
what are the conditions under which they to explain the other way also enabled Phenomena may not be required?
In answering this question I have my experience in the lurch. I can only admonish them to keep the
connection identified as rare, because so often I made in myself and in my patients the test,
he has as in the reported examples demonstrate for them, or at least have good reasons to suspect
him, give. It is not surprising if it did not succeed all the times, the to find hidden meaning
of the symptomatic act, as the size of the internal resistors defy solution, as a crucial
factor is concerned. It is also not able to interpret for themselves or for patients every
single dream and it is sufficient to confirm the universal validity of the theory, if only a
bit further into the hidden which can penetrate. The dream that the attempts to him the day
after to resolve refractory shows can often have a week or a month later wrest his secret, if a real
change in the meantime was contending with each other psychic valences has decreased. The same
applies to the solution of the faulty and symptomatic actions, the example misreading of "Barrel of
Europe" on page 32 has given me the opportunity to show as an initially intractable symptom of the
analysis is accessed if the actual interest has subsided to the repressed thoughts. As long as there
was a possibility that my brother the envied title would receive from me, reading out the said
resistance to all repetitive Efforts of the analysis, after it became clear that this preference
is unlikely was, I suddenly cleared the path that led to the dissolution of it. It would be incorrect,
maintain all of the cases that resist the analysis, they were by another emerged as the psychological
mechanism discovered here, and it took for this assumption other than negative evidence. The likely in
healthy generally available Willingness to believe in a different explanation of the failure and symptomatic
actions, is any probative value of cash, it is, as a matter of course, a manifestation of the same
mental Forces that have made the secret, and who work so well for its preservation, resist
against the lightening though.

On the other hand we must not overlook that the repressed thoughts and emotions to create the
expression in symptom and not act in bad indeed independent. The technical Possibility of such a slipping
of the innervations must be given independent of them; it will then
come from the intention of the repressed, the conscious application,
like exploited.

What are the structural and functional relationships are the ones who face such intention available
which have in the case of linguistic blunder (see page 17) detailed studies determine the philosophers
and philologists sought. We thus differ from the conditions MI and symptomatic action of the
unconscious motive to meet him next physiological and psycho-physical relations, so the question remains
whether it is within the width of the Health or other factors are, which, like the unconscious motive
and instead of it, in the way of these relations, the missing and are able to produce symptomatic
actions. It is not on my way to answer this question.

V. Since the discussions on the promise we have contented ourselves to prove that the Failures
have a hidden motivation, and us with the tools of psychoanalysis the way to the knowledge of
this motivation paved. The general nature and characteristics the failures in the expressed psychological
factors we have almost without regard to left, at least not yet tried
to determine them closer and to examine their legality.

We are also now no thorough execution of the object to try, because the first steps have now
instructed that they in this area better able to penetrate from the other side. You can here a
number of questions will submit that I cite at least, and describe its scope. 1. What content
and their origin are the thoughts and emotions, which are characterized by the false and random
acts ? Indicate 2. What are the conditions for giving a thought or an emotion forced and put
in a position will, help yourself to these incidents as a means of expression? 3. Let is constant
and unique relationship between the nature of the false actions and qualities the evidence through
them expressed?

I begin to gather some material for answering the last question. In discussing the examples of promises,
we have found it necessary to the content go beyond the intended speech, and have the cause
of the speech disturbance outside the intention must look. The same was then close in a number
of cases and was the conscience of the Known speakers. In the seemingly simplest and most transparent
examples, it was a equal sounding different version of the same idea,
which interferes with its expression without that it would have to
specify why inferior to the one, the other was penetrated (Contamination
of Meringer and Mayer).

In a second group of cases was the defeat one version motivated by a consideration which is
not strong enough to complete Restraint proved ("come to Vorschwein"). The text was clearly retained
aware. From the third group only one can say without reservation that here the disturbing Idea of ​​the
intended was different, and can one, it seems, essential Distinction up. The disturbing thought
is disturbed either by the association of ideas combined (interference by internal conflict)
or it is alien to him, and by a strange external associations is just the word disturbed by
distracting thoughts, which is often unconsciously linked. In the examples that I made for my
psychoanalysis Patients have brought the whole issue is under the influence have become active simultaneously,
but totally unconscious thoughts that are either betrayed by the disorder itself (rattlesnake
- Cleopatra) or an indirect influence of external, by providing that the individual Parts of
speech deliberately intended interfere with each other (NATM Ase: where Hasenauerstrasse, reminiscences
a French woman behind it). The retained or unconscious thoughts, of which the speech disorder
are emanating from the most varied origin. A general revealed So to show them to us via any direction.

The comparative examination of the examples of misreading and prescribing leads to the same Results.
Some cases seem like the promise of no further densification motivated work to thank her creation
(for example: the APFE). It would, however, like to know if maybe special Conditions must be met
before such a concentration that literally in the dream work, in our thinking is faulty monitor, space,
attack and get over here from the examples even no information. I would reject it but to draw from
this the conclusion that there is such conditions than about the estate of conscious attention and
I from elsewhere know that just by automated tasks accuracy and reliability distinguish. I would
tend to emphasize that here, as so often in biology, the normal and the normal approximate conditions
less favorable than the objects of research are pathological.

What in explaining these disorders remains obscure is the lightest, according to my expectation
by the investigation of serious disorders received light.

Also in sorting and prescription there is no lack of examples that a more distant and complex motivation
show. "Barrel of Europe" is a reading disorder to educate the influence of a remote, essentially
foreign idea, which a repressed Emotion of jealousy and ambition rises, and the "change" of
the word "transportation" to Link to the indifferent quality and harmless topic that has been read used.
In the case Burckhard is the name itself, "such a" change.

It is clear that the disturbances of speech functions are easily reached and less Requirements
for the disturbing forces are as the other psychic services.

On other grounds it is in the examination of oblivion in the proper sense, ie the Forgetting of
past experiences (the forgetting of proper names and foreign words, as in Sections I and II
could be described as "longer apply," the intentions of a "failure" of Remember that secrete strict sense).
The basic conditions of normal operation when Gone are unknown. One is reminded also that all
is not forgotten what you hold it. Our explanation has to deal here only with those cases where
we forget We brought a surprise, inasmuch as it violates the rule
that unimportant forget Important but is preserved by memory.

The analysis of the examples of forgetting, which we to call for a special education results appear
as a motif of forgetting every time a pain to remember something
that can awaken painful feelings.

We go to the Rebuttable presumption that the motive in the psychic life, in general, seeks
to express, but prevented by other counteracting forces to prevail somehow regularly. Scope
and importance of this memory pain from painful impressions seem the most careful psychological
testing to be worth, the question of what special conditions, the general enable targeted forgetting
in individual cases, from this broader context not be solved.

Forgetting of intentions when another factor comes into the foreground, and the displacement
of the of embarrassing to be remembered only suspected conflict is palpable, and one can see
in the analysis of samples periodically to counter-will which is opposed to the resolve without
it up. As with previously discussed mistakes can also be seen here two Types of mental process,
the counter will return either directly against the intent (For purposes of any importance),
or it is the intention itself is alien and his Related to him by an external associations ago
(almost indifferent intentions).

The same conflict dominates the phenomena of lay hands. The impulse, which is in error the action
is expressed, is often a counter-impulse, but often an even stranger,
the only used the opportunity, during the performance of the act by
the same disorder to express.

The cases in which the disturbance takes place by an inner contradiction, are significant and
affect the more important tasks.

The internal conflict occurs when the random or symptomatic actions back more and more. This
awareness of little value or completely overlooked motor remarks thus serve manifold unconscious
or restrained emotions expressed and are, in most fantasies or requests symbolic dar. -

The first question, whatever their origin, the thoughts and feelings were that in the slips express
can be said that in a number of cases the origin of the interfering Thoughts of repressed impulses
of the soul is easily traced. Selfish, jealous, hostile feelings and impulses, which the pressure
of moral education capacity, use of for healthy often the way of errors, their undeniable existing,
but not of higher spiritual bodies recognized power to comment in
any way.

Allowing these errors and random acts corresponds to a large extent a comfortable Toleration of
immoral. Among these repressed emotions play the manifold sexual Currents no minor role. It
is a coincidence of the material when it just so rare appear under the analysis revealed thoughts
in my examples.

Since I mainly subjected examples from my own emotional life of the analysis did so was the selection
of priori biased and aimed at the exclusion of sexuality. Other times seem it is most to be harmless
objections and considerations, which arise from the disturbing thoughts.

We are now faced with answering the second question, the psychological conditions for , Provides
that a thought is expressed not in full form, but as it parasitic must seek a modification and
disruption of another. It is up to the most striking examples of erroneous action closer to this
condition in a relationship to seek to raise awareness ability "In the more or less decided distinct
character of the" repressed. But the prosecution by the series of examples of this character dissolves
into more and more blurred hints on. The tendency to get over something as time consuming - considering
that the relevant Idea is not actually intended to cause heard - seem as motives for the suppression
a thought that is then dependent on the expression by disruption of another, the same to play
a role as the moral condemnation of unruly emotion or Descent from
completely unconscious thoughts trains.

An insight into the general nature of conditionality of false and random performance can not win
that way. A single significant Fact they will lay hands on these studies, depending harmless motivating
blunder is the less offensive and thus is less awareness incapable of thought is that in it expresses,
the easier the resolution of the phenomenon when he his attention has turned, and the promise
of the easiest cases are noticed immediately and corrected spontaneously. Where it is really motivating
by repressed emotions, as it requires to solve a careful analysis, even if temporarily difficulties
can fail or encounter.

It is thus perfectly entitled to accept the outcome of this last study as an indication to assume
that the satisfactory explanation for the psychological conditions of the mis- and random acts
is to win by other means and from other sources. The indulgent reader may therefore in these conflicts
to demonstrate the fracture surfaces To see where this issue quite artificially removed from a larger
context was.

VI. Some words are intended to indicate at least the direction of this broader context. The
mechanism of failure and random acts, as we know it by the application of analysis have come to know,
shows the most important points a match with the mechanism the formation of dreams, which I "in
the section" dream job of my book on dream interpretation I explained. Condensation and compromise
formations (contamination) is one here and there, the situation is
the same, that unconscious thoughts to unusual ways to bring about
external associations as a modification of other thoughts.

 Women folks say his last line o' shirt waists war the
best they ever see."

Oh, the times that change, and change us! Alas, the fleeting years, good Posthumus, that work
such havoc with our childhood dreams and hopes and aspirations!

It was a relief, after the shattering of these idols, to leave the society of the communicative
Mr. Pettigrew and wander into the moonlight. Save as adding beauty to the scenery, the moon
was comparatively of no assistance, for so well was the little village stamped on my memory,
and so little had it changed in the quarter of a century, that I could have walked blindfolded
to any suggested point. Naturally I turned my steps toward the home of my youth, and as I drew
near the old-fashioned, many-gabled house, with its settled, substantial air, austere yet inviting,
its large yard with the huge elms, and the big lamp burning in the library or "sittin'-room,"
where I first dolefully studied the geography that told me of a world outside, it seemed to
bend toward me rather frigidly as if to say reproachfully: "You sold me! you sold me!" True,
dear old home; in my less prosperous days I was guilty of the crime of selling the house that
faithfully sheltered my family for a hundred years. But have I not repented? And have I not
returned to buy you back, and to make such further reparation as present conditions and true
repentance demand? Is this less the pleasure than the duty of wealth?

With what sensations of delight I walked softly about the grounds, taking note of every familiar
tree and bush and stump. I could have sworn that not a twig, not a blade of grass, had been
despoiled or had disappeared in the years that marked my absence. I paused reverently under
the old willow tree and affectionately rubbed my legs, for from this tree my parents had cut
the instruments of torture for purposes of castigation, and its name, the weeping willow, was
always associated in my infant mind with the direct results of contact with my unwilling person.
On a level with the top of the willow was the little attic room where I slept, and the more
sweetly when the crickets chirped, or the summer rain beat upon the roof, and where the song
of the birds in the morning is the happiest music God has given to the country. Back of the
woodshed I found the remains of an old grindstone, perhaps the same heavy crank I had so often
perspiringly and reluctantly turned. Indeed my reviving memories were rather too generously
connected with the strenuousness and not the pleasures of youth, but I thought of the well-filled
lot in the old burying-ground on the hillside, and of those lying there who had said: "My boy,
I am doing this for your good." I doubted it at the time, but perhaps they were right. At all
events the memories were growing pleasanter, for a stretch of thirty-five years has many healing
qualities, and our childhood griefs are such little things in the afterglow.

In the early morning I renewed my rambles, going first to the little frame school-house, the
old church with its tall spire, the saw-mill, the deacon's cider press, the swimming pool,
and a dozen other places of boyish adventure and misadventure. Your true sentimentalist invariably
gives the preference to scenes over persons, and is so often rewarded by the fidelity with
which they respond to his eager expectations. It was not until I had exhausted every incident
of the place that I sought out the companions of my school-days. What strange irony of fate
is that which sends some of us out into the restless world to grow away from our old ideals
and make others, and restrains some in the monotonous rut of village life, to drone peacefully
their little span! But happy he, who, knowing nothing, misses nothing. If there were any village
Hampdens, or mute, inglorious Miltons among my playmates, they gave no present indications.
I found the girls considerably older than I expected, the boys less interesting than I hoped;
but they all welcomed me with that grave, unemotional hospitality of the village, and we talked,
far into the shadows, of our schooltime, the day that is never dead while memory endures.

And so it came about that at the close of day I found myself standing at the garden gate of
the Eastmann cottage. Peleg Eastmann had been our village postmaster, a grave, shy man, who
had received the federal office because the thrifty neighbors agreed, irrespective of political
feeling, that it was much less expensive to give him the office than to support him and his
two daughters, the prettiest girls in our school. For they further agreed that Peleg was a
"shif'less sort o' critter" and never could make a living, though he was a model postmaster
and an excellent citizen and neighbor. Hence, when it came Peleg's turn to make the journey
to the burying-ground in the village hearse, the whole community of Meadowvale was scandalized
by the discovery that he had left his girls a comfortable little fortune, enough to keep them
in modest wealth. Meadowvale never recovered from this shock. It felt that it had been victimized,
and that its tenderest sensibility had been violated, and when his disconsolate daughters put
up the granite shaft to their father's memory, relating that he had been faithful and just,
the indignant political leader of the village remarked that it was "profanation of Scriptur'."

Thirty years ago I had stood at this little gate with one of the Eastmann girls, escorting
her home from Stella Perkins's party. I had attempted to kiss her good-night, and she had boxed
my ears, thus contributing a disagreeable finale to an otherwise pleasant evening. Time is
a great healer and I cherished no resentment at this late day toward the repudiator of my caresses.
In fact I smiled in recollection of the incident as I walked up the gravelled path and knocked
at the door. I wondered if the same vivacious, rosy-cheeked girl would come to meet me, and
if I should feel in duty bound to make honorable amends. The door was opened by a tall, spare
woman, who carried a lamp. The light reflected directly on her features, showed a face that
in any other part of the world would be called hard; in New England it is merely resolute.
It was the face of a woman fifty years of age, with massive chin, slightly sunken cheeks, a
prominent nose, heavy eyebrows, and a high forehead rather scantily streaked by gray hair.
There was no trace of the girlish bloom I had known, of the beauty that once had been hers,
but the imperious manner of the woman was unmistakable.

"Mary," I began jocularly, "I have come to apologize."

She thrust the lamp forward, peered into my face, and said, with not the faintest trace of
a smile or the slightest evidence of embarrassment:

"Why, that's all right, Johnny Stanhope. I accept your apology. Come right in."

I went in. We sat in the sitting-room and talked of our school-days and our fortunes. I told
her how I had gone down to the city, how I had prospered, of my adventures in the world, of
my marriage--dealing very gently with my relations with the late Mrs. Stanhope--of my bereavement
and present idyllic existence. And she told me of herself, how she had lived on and on in the
little cottage, caring only for the support and education of her niece, Phyllis Kinglake, an
orphan for nearly twenty years. "You remember Sylvia?" she said, with the first touch of emotion.

Did I remember Sylvia? My little fair-haired playmate with the large eyes and the blue veins
showing through the delicate beauty of her face? Little Sylvia, who first won my boyish affection,
and with whom I made a solemn contract of marriage when we were only seven years old? Did I
not remember how I would pass her house on my way to school, and stand at the gate and whistle
until she came shyly out, with her face as red as her little hood and tippet, and give me her
books to carry, and protest with the ever present coquetry of girlhood that she thought I had
gone long ago? Could I ever forget how I saved my coppers, one by one, until I had accumulated
a sum large enough to buy a whole cocoanut, which I presented to her in the proudest moment
of my life, and how the other girls tossed their heads with the affectation of a sneer, and
with pretended indifference to this astonishing stroke of fortune? And that fatal evening when
I provoked my little beauty's wrath, and in all the receding opportunities of "Post-Office"
and "Copenhagen" she had turned her face and rosy lips away from me, until the world was black
with a hopeless despair? And the singing-school where she was our shining ornament, and that
blissful night when I stood up with her in the village church, while we sang our duet descriptive
of the special virtues of some particular flower nominated in the cantata? And how, growing
older and shyer, we still preserved our youthful fancy even to the day I struck out into the
world, both believing in the endurance of the tie that would draw me back? What caprice of
fate is it that dispels the illusions of youth and restores them tenfold in the reflection
of after years and over the gulf of the grave? Did I remember Sylvia?

Then Mary went on to tell me of Sylvia's happy marriage to George Kinglake, how, when little
Phyllis had come, and the world was at its brightest, the parents had been stricken down in
the same week by a virulent disease, and how, with her dying breath, the mother had asked her
sister to look after her little one and protect her from sorrow and harm. Very simply this
stern-featured woman told the story of her efforts to do her duty to her sister's child, and
it seemed to me that her face grew softer and her voice gentler as she went over the years
they had grown older together, while the beauty of this woman's life was glorified by the willing
sacrifices of imposed motherhood. I could not see Phyllis, for she was spending the night with
friends in another part of the village. Next time, she hoped, I might be more successful.

Walking slowly to the tavern my mind still went back to my little playmate and the golden days
of youth, and if my heart grew a little tenderer, and my eyes were moistened by the recall,
what need to be ashamed of the emotion? And if in the night I dreamed that I was a boy again,
and that a fair-haired child played with me in the changing glow of dreamland in the best and
purest scenes of the human comedy, was it a delusion to be dispelled, a memory to be put aside?
Did I remember Sylvia?

The thought that my train was to leave at ten o'clock did not depress me as I awoke, with the
sunlight streaming through the window, for, after all, I was obliged to admit that the monotony
of Meadowvale and the sluggishness of my village friends were beginning to have an appreciable
effect. Then the memory of little Sylvia came to me again, and nothing seemed pleasanter, as
a benediction to the old days, than a visit to the burying-ground where she was sleeping. The
previous day I had paid the obligations of remembrance and respect to the graves of my kindred,
and it gave me at first an uncomfortable feeling to realize that the thought of them was less
potent than the recollection of this young girl. But was it strange or inexcusable? Had they
not lived out their lives of honored usefulness, and grown old and weary of the battle? And
had not she passed away just as the greater joys of living were unfolding, and the assurance
of happiness was the stronger? Poor Sylvia!

The spectacle of a correctly dressed, middle-aged man passing down the street, bearing a somewhat
cumbersome burden of lilies-of-the-valley and forget-me-nots, must have had its peculiar significance
to the inhabitants of the village, and many curious glances were my reward. I passed along,
however, without explanations in distinct violation of rural etiquette. The old caretaker of
the burying-ground met me at the entrance and gave me the directions--second path to the right,
half way up the hill, just to the left of the big elm. The old man had known me as a boy and
would have detained me in conversation, but I pleaded that my time was short, and reluctantly
he let me go my way. Slowly up the hill I walked, occasionally pausing to place a forget-me-not
on the grave of one I had known in childhood. Even old Barrows did not escape my passing tribute--a
cynical, cross-grained old fellow, the aversion of the boys, who tormented him and whom he
tormented with reciprocal vigor. No need of a forget-me-not for Barrows, for he never forgot
anything, so I gave his somewhat neglected grave the token of a long stem of little lilies,
in evidence that the past was forgiven, and moved on to avoid possible protestation.

I paused under the wide-branching elm to recover my breath. The assent had been arduous for
a gentleman inclined to portliness and with wind impaired by tobacco. I turned to the left,
and at that moment, just before me, a woman's figure slowly rose from the ground. A creeping
sensation possessed me. My heart bounded and my pulses thrilled. Was this Sylvia risen from
the dead? Surely it was Sylvia's graceful girlish form! This was Sylvia's oval face, with Sylvia's
large gray eyes. In such a way Sylvia's pretty light hair waved about her temples, and the
pink and white of her delicate complexion revealed the blue veins. Twenty-five years had rolled
back in an instant, and I was standing in the presence of the past. Alas, the swift passing
of the illusion, for the conversation of the evening came to me.

"You are Phyllis?" I said.

"I am Phyllis," she answered softly--her mother's voice--"and you are Mr. Stanhope. My aunt
told me."

I did not answer, for I was staring stupidly at her, reluctant to abandon the pleasing fancy
that my thinking of her had brought her back from the dead again. She did not speak, but glanced
inquiringly at the flowers I held in my hand.

"I knew your mother, Phyllis," I managed to say. "She was a very dear playmate of my childhood.
I have brought these flowers to put upon her grave. Shall we go together?"

The girl's eyes filled, and she pointed to the rising mound at her feet. Silently we bent over
and reverently laid the lilies and forget-me-nots under the simple headstone.

"May I talk to you of your mother?" I asked.

We sat down on a rude bench in the path, and I told her of my childhood, of the days when Sylvia
and I were sweethearts, of our little quarrels and frolics, of her mother's beauty and gentleness.
The girl laughed at the recital of our misadventures, and the tears came into her eyes when
I touched on my boyish affection for my playmate. Then she told me of her own life, so peaceful
and happy in the little village, and in the neighboring town, where she had been educated with
all the care and diligence of the New England impulse. I looked at my watch.

"It is quarter past eleven," I said ruefully, "and my train left at ten."

"There's another train at three," she replied. "You will go home and dine with us? We dine
at twelve in the country, you know."

If I was somewhat ashamed to face Mary Eastmann, she received us with the same stolidity she
had manifested when we first met, and at once insisted that I should remain for dinner. "Go
into the parlor," she said abruptly.

Phyllis plucked the sleeve of my coat. "Don't go in there," she whispered; "that's Aunt Mary's
room exclusively, and I'm afraid you'll not find it very cheerful. Come out on the porch."

"I know the room," I whispered back, as we went out together. "At least I know the type. Lots
of horse-hair belongings. Square piano against the wall. Wax flowers under a glass case on
the mantel. Steel engravings of Washington crossing the Delaware. Family album, huge Bible,
and 'Famous Women of Two Centuries' on the centre table. Seashells, blue wedgwood and German
china things mingled in delightful confusion on the what-not. If not wax flowers, it's wax fruit."

Phyllis laughed--how much her laugh was like her mother's--and nodded her head. "Not a bad
description," she assented; "you must have the gift of second sight."

"Not second sight. Suppose we call it the gift of second childhood."

We sat on the porch and looked down on the lawn that sloped to the orchard, and watched the
robins run across the grass. And I pointed out to Phyllis the very tree under which Sylvia
and I had stood the day we had our first memorable quarrel, confessing that while at the time
there was no doubt in my mind that Sylvia was clearly at fault, I was now prepared to concede,
after plenty of reflection, that possibly she might have had a reasonable defence. The recital
of this pathetic incident led to other reminiscences connected with the old house and its grounds,
and I was hardly in the second chapter when Mary came out and ordered us in to dinner. Mary
never invited, never requested; she merely ordered. We sat at the table, and at a severe look
from Mary I stopped fumbling with my napkin, while Phyllis--sweet saint!--folded her hands
and asked the divine blessing. Pagan philosopher that I was, I was singularly moved by the
simple faith of these two women, and I think that when I am led back into the fold of my family
creed, a girl as young and fair and holy as Phyllis will be the angel to guide me.

The dinner was toothsome, the environment fascinating, the afternoon perfect, and so it came
about quite naturally that I missed the three-o'clock train. "There is nothing so disagreeable
in life," I explained apologetically to my friends, "as a hard and fast schedule, which keeps
one jumping like an electric clock, doing sixty things every hour and never varying the performance.
Fortunately trains run every day except Sunday, and the general order of the universe is not
going to be upset because I am not checking myself off like a section-hand."

Perhaps Mary did not wholly coincide with my argument, but she was called away to her sewing-circle,
while Phyllis and I lounged lazily on the porch, I continuing my reminiscences. Garrulity is
not merely the prerogative of age; the privilege of the monologue is always that of the old
boy who comes back to his childhood's home and finds in a pretty girl a charming and attentive
listener. He is a poor orator, indeed, who cannot improve such opportunities. At a convenient
lull in the flow of discourse we went off to ride, exploring the country roads I knew so well,
and here began new matter and new reminiscences, patiently endured by Phyllis, who was a most
delightful girl. And when we returned late in the afternoon it was directly in the line of
circumstances that I should remain for tea; and after tea Phyllis played and sang for me in
the little parlor, for Phyllis was a musician of no small merit. When in reply to my inquiry
she sang a simple Scotch ballad her mother had sung so touchingly many years before, a great
lump rose in my throat, and I sat far over in the shadow that she and Mary might not see how
blurred were my eyes, and how unmanageable my emotion. At what age does it come to a man and
a philosopher that he is no longer ashamed of honest, sympathetic tears? Only months later I suddenly remembered the riddle thrown aside again,
this time together with its solution. I remembered the remark in a newspaper article, which
voted for odd modes of transport, people now come to Paris for the World Fair, and there was,
I believe, told a joke been that some have a master's intention to be guided by another gentleman
in a barrel to Paris to roll. Of course, these people had no other motive than by such follies
to make a stir. Hermann newspaper was in fact the name of that man who for such had given the first
example of unusual movements. Then I remembered that I once treated a patient with abnormal fear
of the newspaper in response against the morbid ambitions broke up, is mentioned as a famous
and printed in the newspaper to see. The Macedonian Alexander was certainly one of the most
ambitious men who ever lived. He complained so that he will not find a Homer, who sing of his
deeds. But how could I just do not think that another Alexander closer to me that Alexander's
name my younger brother is! I was now the offensive immediately and the displacement of vulnerable
Alexander's thoughts in regard to this and the current need for him. My brother is Expert in
matters affecting tariffs and transportation concern, and should to a certain Time for his teaching
at a commercial college received the title professor. For the same carriage I proposed to the
University for several years, have achieved without them. Our mother then expressed her displeasure
about the fact that her little Son should be more than their great professor. So it was at the
time when I have a solution for those reading error could not be found. Then the problems
raised again during my Brother, and his chances to become a professor, fell even below the mine.
But since I was suddenly appears to be the meaning of that misreading, it was as if the reduction
in the opportunities the brother of a barrier removed. I had behaved as if I were reading the
nomination the brother in the newspaper, and saying to myself: Strange that one because of such
stupid things (As he operates as a profession) in the newspaper stand (that is appointed at
the Professor) can! The body of the Hellenistic Art in the Age of Alexander I suggested then,
without Trouble on and convinced me to my surprise that I repeated during the previous searching
read on the same page and each time under the governance of a negative hallucination the sentence
had been passed over. This way, contained nothing which I Enlightenment took what would have
been worth forgetting. I mean, the symptom of not finding the Book has been created only to my confusion.
I should link the continuation of thought search there where my investigation was an obstacle placed
in its way, so in some Idea of ​​the Macedonian Alexander, and should be so distracted by the same
brother safe be. This was also perfect, I directed all my efforts on the lost Place in that
art history find again.

The double meaning of the word "carriage" in this case, the association bridge between the two circles
of thought, the unimportant, which is excited by reading the papers, and the interesting, however
objectionable, which here make the claim as a nuisance to readers
allowed.

It is seen from this example that it is not always easy, incidents like these Read error educate.
Occasionally one is also compelled to solve the puzzle on a better time to move. The more difficult,
however, proves the solution work, the more secure may expect that at last uncovered disturbing
thought of our conscious thinking are judged to be strange and contradictory to be.

c) I get one day a letter from the vicinity of Vienna, to me a shocking message communicates. I call
immediately to my wife and I call on them to participate because William M. is poor so severely
ill and abandoned by the doctors.

At the words, in Dress which I regret, but must have sounded something wrong, because my wife is
suspicious, demanded to see the letter and expressed as their belief that it could not therein
are, for no one call a woman by the name of the man, and also was the Correspondent of the
first name of the woman very well known. I defend my claim stubbornly and refer to the so-common
business card on which a woman even with the First name of the man called. I must finally take
the letter at hand, and we read it actually "the poor World Cup," and even what I had completely
overlooked: "The poor Dr. WM. My mistake meant so one, as it were frantic, trying the sad news to
pass on to the man on the woman. The inserted between article and adjective Name Title poorly
adapted to the demand that it should be the woman meant. Therefore he was also eliminated when
reading. The subject of this distortion was not that my wife less would be sympathetic as the
man, but the fate of the poor man had my concerns to another person close to me made active,
which is one of my known disease conditions with this case had in common.

B. prescribing.

a) On a leaf, which usually brief daily record of commercial interest contains, I find to my surprise, among
the right data for September including the prescribed date "Thursday
the 20th October.

" It is not difficult, this Anticipation clarify, as an expression
of a wish.

I am a few days before having returned from the holiday trip and I feel ready for extensive medical
employment, but the number of patients is still low. On my arrival I found a letter from a patient
before, which for 20 Announced in October. When I have the same number of days in September was
writing, I may have thought: The X. but already should be there, as pity for the full month!
and in that thought I advanced the date. The disturbing idea in this case is hardly a call to public morality,
for which I also know now, the resolution of clerical error, after I first noticed him.

b) I get the correction of my contribution to the annual report of Neurology and Psychiatry
and of course must be revised with special care the author names, because different Nations belonging
to prepare the translation of the greatest difficulties maintain. Some foreign sounding name
I find it really correct yet, but one name has strangely As the translator
to improve my manuscript and that with full rights.

I had, Buckrhard written, from which the translator Burckhard guessed. I had the memoir of an
obstetrician on the influence of birth on the development of polio itself as meritorious praised,
knew nothing against the author to say, but it bears the same name as a writer in Vienna, me by
a non-constant criticism of my Interpretation of Dreams has annoyed. It's just like I would have at
the writing of the name Burckhard, of the obstetrician called, meant something to the other as
evil, the writer, for twisting name often means enough, as I have already mentioned the promise, abuse [11].

c)
An apparently more serious case of prescribing, which I might with just as much right the "lay
hands could classify" I had no intention of me from the post office savings bank the sum to
have come from 300 crowns, which I send one to absent relatives Kurgebrauch wants. I note here that
my account is at 4380 kroner, and take from me, it now Download enforce the round sum of 4,000
kroner, which are not attacked in the near future should. After I posted to check the order of the
number and the corresponding number I cut, I suddenly notice that
I do not = 380 = Kr, as I wanted, but = 438 = I just ordered, and
troubled about the unreliability of my actions.

The fright I recognize now as unjustified, and I'm not even now been poorer than I was before.
But I have to ponder a while about which influence here is my first intention has disrupted,
without my conscious notice. First I get the wrong ways want the two numbers, 380 and 438 subtract
from each other, but then not know what I to do with the difference. Finally shows me a sudden
idea the true context. 438 even ten percent of the entire account equivalent to 4380 Kr! cent 10th
Discount but when you have Booksellers! I remember that I few days ago a number of medical works,
lost their interest in me, showing to them the bookseller just for 300 Crowns offer. He found
the claim to high and promised final proof in the next few days Answer to say. If he accepts my
offer, he told me just replaced the sum which should I spend for the sick. There is no mistaking
that I'm around this issue sorry. The emotion in the performance of my error can be better understood
as fear, by such expenditures are poor. But both the regret because of this issue and Fear
knotted at her impoverishment, are completely foreign to my consciousness, I have the regret
not feel as if I promised that sum, and would find the motivation of the same ridiculous. I would trust
such a movement probably would not if I do not by Exercise in psycho-analysis in patients with
the repressed in mental life rather familiar would be, and if I had not had a dream a few
days ago, which the same solution required [12].

Wundt is a notable reason for the slightly to be confirmed fact that we We promise a prescribe
easier (lcp 374). "In the course of normal speech is continually addressed the inhibition function
of the will then, presentation and articulation during movement to reconcile with each other. If
the expression following the ideas of movement slowed down due to mechanical causes, such as
writing ...., so therefore connect these anticipations particularly easy one. "

The observation of the conditions under which the reading occurs, gives rise to a doubt I do
not want to leave unmentioned, because he, in my estimation of the starting point of a investigation
may be fruitful. It is known to everyone as often while reading the Attention of the reader leaves
the text and turn to their own thoughts.

The result This wandering of the attention is not rare that he does not specify knows what
he has read when he was interrupted in reading aloud and questioned. He then, as automatically
read, but he has read almost always right. I do not think that the Read errors increase noticeably in such
conditions. By a number of functions We are also accustomed to assume that it automatically,
ie no conscious awareness be accompanied, performed most accurately. It seems to follow that the attention
condition the speaking, reading and spelling errors should be determined
other than it is in Wundt (omission or reduction of attention).

The examples that we have carried out the analysis indicated We really do not have the right to adopt
a quantitative reduction in attention; we found what is perhaps not quite the same, a disruption
of attention by a strange, right uplifting thoughts.

[11] See for instance the passage in Julius Caesar III. 3:

Cinna. Honestly, my name is Cinna.

Citizens. Tear him to pieces! he's a conspirator.

Cinna. I am Cinna the poet! I am not Cinna the Conspirators.

Citizens. It does nothing, his name is Cinna, he pulls the Name from the heart and let him go.

[12]
This is that dream I in a short treatise, "On the Dream," No. VIII of the "border issue of the
nervous and Mental life ", published by Lowenfeld and Kurella 1901,
the Paradigm have taken.

  

       

       VI.

       
       Forgetting of impressions and intentions.

       
       

  If anyone should be inclined to the status of our present knowledge
  of mental life to overestimated, so one needed to remind him
  only to the memory function for him to be modest to force. No psychological
  theory has yet been able to fundamentals of the phenomenon of remembering
and forgetting to give in connection account, and yes, the complete
dissection of what can be observed as a fact, is barely addressed.

Maybe We forget today become as mysterious as the memory, since we
study the has taught the dream and pathological events that suddenly
in the awareness can appear, what we have for long been appreciated
forgotten.

However, we are in possession of a few factors for which we are widely recognized Be expected. We assume
that forgetting is a spontaneous process, which is a certain write timing can. We emphasize that,
when forgetting a certain selection is conducted on the impressions and also presented at the details of
each Impression or an experience. We know some of the conditions for the durability in mind and
for the arousal of what would otherwise be forgotten. In many occasions in daily Life we ​​can
see how incomplete and unsatisfactory our knowledge is. Man to hear two people who jointly received
external impressions, such as a travel have had with each other,
share some time later, their memories.

What one remained firmly in mind is that the other has often forgotten, as if it did not happen would,
without that we would have a right to claim that the idea was for the one been psychologically
significant than the others. A number of the selection for the memory defining moments apparently
still eludes our understanding.

With the aim to provide the knowledge of the conditions of forgetting a small contribution, I maintain
the cases in which I happen to forget the self, a psychological analysis to subject. I deal
with usually only a certain group of these cases, namely, with those in which he sets the forgetting
surprise me, because I, in my expectation should know the person concerned. I want to say that
I am to forget things in general (For experienced, not learned!) Is not inclined, and that I
go through a brief period of my Youth also exceptional memory performance was not unfit. In
my boyhood school It was me, of course, the page of the book, which I had read, recite by heart to,
and just before the university I was able, popular scientific lectures
Content to write down immediately afterwards almost word for word.

In the tension before the final medical viva, I have to use the rest of this ability have made
for I was in some property, the accountants such as automatic responses that are true with the text
of the book covered, but what I skimmed through only once in the greatest haste had.

The disposition of the Gedächnisschatz has since become worse and worse with me, but I have to believe
in me the last time into it that I using a trick much more can remember when I otherwise trust.
For example, if a patient in the consultation to plead that I have seen him before, and I am neither
in the fact still remember the time, so I help myself by my advice, that I quickly one think of
the number of years from the present to, let. Where written records or enable secure control of
my patients indicating the invasion, as it turns out I've rarely been wrong by more than a half
over 10 years. [13] Similarly, if I meet a distant acquaintance whom I be polite to his young
children ask. He tells of the progress of it, so I can search my mind how old the child is
now controlling the information of the Father and go at most a Month, in older children by a quarter
of a failure, although I can not specify what evidence I had for
this estimate.

I recently have become so bold that I always mean estimate putting forward spontaneously,
and are in no danger of the father by exposing my ignorance offending on his offspring. I extend
so my conscious recall by calling my any case, far richer unconscious memory.

So I will talk about striking examples of forgetting, which I observed to myself. I distinguish
forgetting of impressions and experiences, that of knowledge, and forgetting Intentions, that
omission. The uniform result of the whole series of observations I can preface: In all cases,
proved to be founded by forgetting a painful subject.

A. forgetting of impressions and knowledge.

a) In the summer, my wife gave me a harmless in itself give rise to violent anger. We sat at the table d'hôte
with respect to a gentleman from Vienna, whom I knew, and probably also To remember me know. But
I had my reasons not to renew the acquaintance. My wife, who had only the respectable name of its opposite
is revealed, too, that they listened to his conversation with the neighbors, because she turned
from time to time to me issues, the shots there spun yarn.

I was impatient and finally angry. A few weeks later I had with a relative complain about this behavior
of my wife. But I was unable to remember even one word of the conversation that Mr. Since I'm
more forgiving, and no other details of an incident that has annoyed me can remember is my
amnesia in this case probably by considerations of the person of
Wife motivated. The same happened to me not long ago.

I wanted against a intimate acquaintance about a manifestation of
my wife make fun of the first few hours ago had fallen, but found
myself prevented this resolution by the remarkable fact I had forgotten
the statement in question without a trace.

I only had to ask my wife, to remind me of the same. It is easy to understand that this is analogous
to my forgetfulness Judgement is to grasp the typical disturbance, which we are subject, if
it is our next Members involved.

b) I had undertaken a foreign lady arrived in Vienna a small iron hand cassette to get to store
their documents and money. When I offered to me, hovering me with extraordinary vividness the picture
of a visual display in the Inner City before, in which I had to have seen such funds. I was indeed
the name of the do not remember street felt, but me sure that I on a walk through the store
Find out where the city would, because my memory told me that I have countless times to him
was passed.
 It is indeed a matter of pride in woman that while
man has studied her for thousands of years, she continues to exhibit fresh delights in her
infinite variety of moods and to put forth unexpectedly new and astounding shoots.

I saw Phyllis no more that evening, save in my dreams, and it was wholly creditable to the
goodness of my motives and the sincerity of my affection that she abided with me in my slumbering
fancies with no protracted intermissions. The next day she was as sweet and gracious as ever,
but I thought her tone a little constrained, and when, as a father or brother should, I ventured
to speak of the tenderness of our family relation, a half-imploring look came into her beautiful
eyes. And when I casually remarked on the softness of her hair, or the slenderness of her fingers,
her glance was timidly reproachful. All this gave me great unhappiness, and I discovered, to
my further distress, that in my attempt to return to the old familiar footing I was neglecting
the committee and losing interest in the affairs of the library. A certain peevishness took
possession of me; I was no longer myself, and I lost the gayety and sprightliness which had
been always my distinguishing virtues.

Furthermore I missed the companionship and solace of my books in this emergency, for I had
no reference library to which I could go in Meadowvale for aid in establishing the true condition
of this strange girl. I recalled dimly that somewhere on my shelves was a volume which contained
a fairly analogous case, but while I knew that I possessed such a book I could not remember
the circumstances or the incidents cited, and this added to my unrest. Only a student can understand
the absolute wretchedness which overtakes a man when he finds himself miserably dependent on
a distant library. For several days I gave myself up entirely to my mental depression, greatly
wondering at the perplexing change in my life, and marvelling that in all my explorations in
philosophy I had not provided for just such a crisis, whatever it might be. One afternoon as
I sat in my room at the tavern, looking idly out of the window and across the little river
which rippled by, something seemed to strike me violently in the forehead. It may have been
a telepathic suggestion, it may have been a return to consciousness; at all events it was an
idea. I leaped from my chair, put on my hat, and proceeded rather feverishly to the Eastmann
cottage. Phyllis was away for the day; Mary was knitting in the sitting-room. I watched her
in silence for a moment, and then I said abruptly:

"Mary, I think I should like to marry Phyllis."

Mary Eastmann was not the type of woman to lose herself or betray astonishment. She pushed
her spectacles sharply above her eyes, looked at me sternly, and said in a rasping voice.

"John Stanhope, don't be an old fool."

"Whatever I may be, Mary," I answered, much nettled by her tone, "I do not think anybody can
properly regard me as a fool. As for the other qualification," I went on complacently, "I am
not so old."

"You and Sylvia were the same age, and she would have been forty-eight."

"A man is as old as he feels," I ventured, finding refuge in a proverb.

"That is evasive, and has nothing to do with the question. Beside, what reason have you to
believe that Phyllis has the slightest desire to marry you?"

"Frankly, not the slightest reason in the world," I replied with the utmost candor. "That is
why I have been so bold as to speak to you on the subject."

"Perhaps you thought I might use my influence to help you along?"

"Quite the contrary, my dear Mary, I assure you. I may not know very much about women"--I was
quite humble when separated from my library--"but I do know that nothing is so fatal to a lover's
prospects as the encouragement of the loved one's relations. You see that I am perfectly frank."

"Then you wish my opposition?"

"Come, let us be reasonable. I have told you I wish to marry Phyllis. I know my good points,
and I am not unacquainted with my weak ones. Unhappily I can figure out my age to a day. Alas,
I am forty-eight, and Phyllis is not yet twenty-three. The difference is positively ghastly
from a sentimental standpoint, but if I love her, and she is not hopelessly indifferent to
me, I think that even that difficulty can be bridged. You know my position, my character, my
general reputation. Neither of us knows what Phyllis really thinks or what she will say or
do in the matter. I do not ask either for your opposition or your good offices. I have come
to you as an old friend and the girl's nearest relative to tell you exactly how I feel and
what I wish to gain. And I ask only that I may have the same chance to win her affection that
you might grant to a younger man."

Mary's voice was gentler when she spoke again. "John," she said, "Phyllis is all I have in
the world. It is my one idea to have her happily married to a worthy man whom she honestly
loves. Providence, in inscrutable wisdom, may have decreed that you are that man, but," she
continued with a sudden return of Yankee caution, "I have my doubts, considering your age.
However, you have acted honorably in coming to me, and while I think Phyllis would be a better
daughter than wife to you, I cannot speak for her. Remember that she is very young and very
inexperienced. Her acquaintance with men has been slight. You are a man of the world and with
enough of the surface polish--I don't say it stops with that--to dazzle any girl accustomed
to such surroundings as we have here. Undoubtedly an offer from you would flatter her; it might
induce her to accept you, thinking that she loved you. Be careful. Be sure of your ground before
it is too late."

As I walked back to the village I mused on what Mary had said, but I felt no apprehension.
Most lovers are alike in this--in youth, in middle age, in senility. Perhaps the advantage
of middle life is that a man is more the master of himself, more in possession of the faculties
necessary to carry him through a crisis. Without the impetuous desire of youth, or the deadened
sensibilities of old age, he has a certain serene confidence that is a mixture of love and
philosophy. It disturbed me somewhat to find with what equanimity I faced a situation which
promised nothing. It really annoyed me to note that I was picking out mentally the place to
which I should conduct Phyllis in order to have the harmonious environment adapted to a sentimental
proposition. I remembered that down by the river, just beyond the willows, there was an old
tree where Sylvia and I--ah, so many years ago!--had sat and talked of our lives before us.
To that sacred spot I would lead Sylvia's daughter, and, passing gently from the past to the
present, I would tell her of my love and of my fondest hopes. How dignified and appropriate
such a spot for a frank, calm, and self-contained avowal!

Thus philosophically and amiably plotting I walked contentedly along, and, looking up, I saw
Phyllis coming toward me, swinging her hat in her hand, and suggesting in her girlish beauty
and graceful outline the poet's shepherdess. She did not see me, and, yielding to a sudden
impulse, I stepped quickly aside in the shadow of a neighbor's house, as she passed on with
her eyes on the ground. I followed at a little distance, and discovered, much to my dismay,
that she chose the road that led to the burying-ground. Now a cemetery is not at all the spot
that a man, whatever his philosophy, would select for a tender declaration, but I was buoyed
by the remembrance of Mary's words. "The finger of Providence may be in it," I muttered. "The
Lord's will be done."

Slowly up the winding path she walked, and I as slowly followed. When I reached her, she was
standing at her mother's grave, just as she had stood the morning we first met. I tried to
accept this as an omen, but failed miserably, and omens, after all, depend on the point of
view. She raised her eyes, and, seeing me, blushed, another omen which means comparatively
little to a man who is aware of the thousand emotions that are responsible for the blush of
woman. I was again annoyed by the discovery that my pulses were not beating wildly, and that
my heart was not throbbing tumultuously, and when I addressed a commonplace remark to her I
was thoroughly ashamed and humiliated. It seemed like taking a mean advantage of innocence
and inexperience.

We sat together on the little bench, and for the first time in our acquaintance she appeared
embarrassed, as if she knew what was passing in my mind. I have always believed that women,
in addition to their acknowledged intuition, have a special sense that enables them to anticipate
a declaration of passion, and I had no doubt that Phyllis was fully prepared for my confession
in spite of her embarrassment. This induced me to proceed to the point without unnecessary
preliminaries.

"Phyllis," I said, not without a certain agreeable ardor, "I have been talking with Aunt Mary."

"Indeed?"

"And about you."

"Really?"

"When I say that I have been talking with Aunt Mary, and about you," I continued in a grieved
tone, for I do not like jerky responses, "I wish you to understand that it was in connection
with no ordinary topic. Phyllis,"--I spoke with the utmost tenderness--"can you not guess the
nature of our discussion?"

Phyllis was equal to the emergency; her embarrassment had disappeared. "I am glad," she said,
"that your conversation so far as it related to me was out of the ordinary. I suppose I may
ask what the topic was--that is, if you don't mind telling."

This was approaching the serious. "Phyllis, I was telling Aunt Mary that I loved you and wished
to make you my wife."

A flash, half merry, half angry, came to her eye. "That was thoughtful of you. Is it customary
for gentlemen in the city, when they think they love a girl, to honor all her relations with
their confidence before they speak to the girl herself?"

I took her hand. She made the slightest motion to withdraw it, and permitted it to remain in
my grasp. "Phyllis," I said with all earnestness, "do not misunderstand me. I sought you at
the house. You were absent. Your Aunt Mary and I have been friends from childhood, and it was
only natural that out of my heart I spoke the words that were in my mind. I told her that I
loved you, just as at that moment I might have shouted it from the housetop. My heart was full
of you and I had to speak. Can't you understand?"

The girl was still obdurate, and she spoke with some petulance. "If that is the case, perhaps
it is just as well that it was Aunt Mary and not one of the neighbors."

"Dear little Phyllis, you are not angry with me because I love you? You cannot remain angry
with me because I confessed my love before I met you to-day? If you had only seen with what
applications of cold water your aunt rewarded my confidence, you would pity and not reproach me."

For a minute the girl was silent. Then she asked softly: "How long have you known that you
loved me?"

"Must I answer that question candidly and unreservedly?"

"Unreservedly and candidly."

I seized her other hand and held her firmly. "About fifty minutes."

She laughed, rather joyously I thought. "And having loved me for fully fifty minutes, you wish
to make me your wife? Confiding man!"

"Little girl," I said tenderly, "let us be serious. If my dull consciousness did not awaken
till an hour ago, my heart tells me that I have loved you ever since I first saw you standing
near this spot. I took the hint and sat down at the Table while
he went to the station. The next morning we met in the lobby of the Hôtels. He introduced me
to his wife and added, but you will have breakfast with us Companies? I had a small errand to
the next street before and assured me would soon follow. When I then went into the breakfast
room, I saw that the couple in a small window table was seated on one side of which they both sat.
On the Other side there was only one chair, but on the back hung the large and heavy loden
coat the man down, the place obstructions. I understood very well the meaning of this is certainly not
deliberate, but that all the more expressive storage. It was: here is not for you Area, you
are now redundant. The man did not notice that I stand before the table remained without putting
myself, but the lady who bumped her husband immediately and he whispered: You've got the Lord
moved the court.

In this as in other similar experiences I've been told that the unintentional performed acts
inevitably a source of confusion in the human traffic will have. The suspect, who converted from
a linked them with intent not know anything is not the same and do not consider themselves
responsible for them. The other recognizes, however, by regularly even actions of his partner to
conclusions about its intentions and sentiments exploited more by the mental processes of the
stranger, as this self- willing to admit and to have communicated believes. The latter, however,
shocked when he these are kept out of his symptomatic actions conclusions drawn, they declared
groundless, because he lacks awareness of the intention of execution, and complains of misunderstanding
on the part of the other. Strictly speaking, such a misunderstanding based on a Zufein- and too
much understanding. The more "nervous" two people are, the more likely they are to each event
offer dissensions, the motivation for each person for his own denial also determined as he accepts
secured for the person of the other as. And this is probably the penalty for the inner insincerity
that people under the pretense of forgetting, lay hands and allow the expression of unintentional
movements, which they better themselves and others would admit, if they do not already able to
control. One can in fact generally Claim that everyone constantly psychological analysis operates
on his fellow-men and these meets as a result better than any individual himself, the way to compliance
the reminder γνῶθι σεαυτὸν through the study of his own seemingly random acts and omissions.

IX.

Errors.

The
errors of memory, of forgetting to faulty recollection only by a train distinction that the error
(the error inside) is not recognized as such, but faith place. The use of the term "mistake" but
seems to still another condition to .

Hang We speak of "insane" instead of "false" remembering where to
be reproduced in the mental material of the nature of objective reality
is to be highlighted, so where anything else is to be remembered as
a fact of my own mental life, rather something that the confirmation
or refutation is accessible by the memory of others.

The Unlike the memory error in this sense is the ignorance.

In my book "The Interpretation of Dreams (1900)" I have a number of distortions of historical
and made at all material actual guilt, which I after the appearance of Book with wonder I became
aware. I have found on closer examination of these, that they do not have sprung my ignorance,
but on errors of memory Back guide which can be cleared up by analysis.

a) On p. 266 I refer to as the birthplace of Schiller, the city of
Marburg, whose name in the Styria returns.

The mistake is found in the analysis of a dream during a night journey, from which I was awakened by the
conductor from the station to be called Marburg. In the dream asking for a book by Schiller.
Now, Schiller is not in the university town Marburg, but born in the Swabian town of Marbach. I claim
that I do always I know.

b) On p. 135 Hasdrubal Hannibal's father is mentioned. This mistake was I really angry, But I
was encouraged in the view of such errors the most. In the history of Barkiden probably few readers of
the book know more than the author, the these errors down and wrote it in three corrections overlooked.
The father of Hannibal was called Hamilcar Barca, Hasdrubal was the name of Hannibal's brother,
incidentally, also his brother- and predecessor in the command.

c) On p. 177 p. 370 I say that Zeus emasculated his father Kronos and him from the throne crashes.
This abomination but I mistakenly pushed a generation, the Greek Mythology makes him commit
by Kronos on his father Uranus.

As it is now to explain that my memory is provided in this faithless points, while I am otherwise,
how to convince readers of the book, the most remote and unusual
Material was made available?

And also that I carefully carried out in three corrections harvested as blind to these errors by
going?

It has been said of Lichtenberg, where he made a joke, there lies a problem hidden. Similarly, one
can say about the quoted passages of my book here: where a mistake is present, since a displacement
is behind it. More correctly: a dishonesty, a distortion, based on the finally repressed. I'm in the
analysis of dreams reported there been compelled by the mere nature
of subjects, which belong to the dream-thoughts, one hand, the analysis
somewhere before rounding to cancel the other hand, an indiscreet
to behave detail by a slight distortion of the focus.

I could not help and had no other choice if I ever wanted to make examples and evidence, my Predicament
led off with necessity from the property of dreams, repressed, ie Bewusstseinsunfähigem to give expression.
It would still be enough left remained what more sensitive souls have taken offense. The misrepresentation
or concealment of myself yet known perpetuating thought has carried out now not a trace. What
I wanted to press, has often against my will by me access to the Recorded fought for and is it come
from me as an unnoticed error to light. In all three highlighted examples, incidentally, the same
underlying theme, the errors are descendants repressed thoughts, dealing with my late father.

ad.
a) A person on the p. 266 analyzed dream through reading, will find some naked, some can guess
from hints that I broke in mind that an unfriendly Criticism would have included at the father.
In the continuation of this train of thoughts and memories now is an annoying story in which books
play a role and a business associate the father, who goes by the name of Marburg, the same name,
by its call in the same Southern railway station, I was awakened from sleep. Marburg I wanted
this man in the analysis me and the readers embezzled, he revenged himself by being there interferes
where he does not belong, and changed the name of the birthplace of Schiller in Marbach Marburg.

ad.
b) The error instead of Hasdrubal Hamilcar, the name of the brother, instead of the name of the Father's,
occurred precisely in a context that my fantasies of the Hannibal
Gymnasiastenjahre and my dissatisfaction with the conduct of the father
against the "enemies our people "is.

I could have told and continue, as my relationship with the Father by a visit to England was changed,
the me of my acquaintance there surviving half-brother from a previous marriage to make his father
left. My oldest brother has a Son who is my same age, the fantasies, as otherwise it would become
if I do not would have been the son of the father but the brother to the world, that found no obstacle
the age relations. These repressed fantasies forged now at the point where I in the analysis, broke
the text of my book by myself compelled, the name of the brother "and for that of the Father.

ad. c) The influence of the memory of that same brother I write it
that I mythological horrors of the Greek gods have pushed forward
a generation.

From the exhortations of his brother to me a long time remained in my memory, "Do not Forget
in terms of lifestyle, one, "he told me," that you are not the second, but actually the third
generation from the Father belong to. "Our father was in later Years, remarried and was so much
older than his second marriage with children. I commit the error discussed in the book just
where I act of piety between the parents and children.

It has happened a few times that friends and patients, their dreams, I reported or to which I
alluded in the analysis of dreams, made me aware of the circumstances of the the common experience
of incident had been told by my inaccurate. That would now turn historical errors. I checked
the individual cases after the correction and I also believe that my memory of objectivity was
only there Unfaithful, where I was in the analysis somewhat marred
by design or conceal.

Again, an unnoticed Error as a substitute for an intentional concealment or repression.

Of these errors, which arise from the displacement, stand out sharply from other, to real ignorance
based. So it was, for example, ignorance, when I go to a trip to the Wachau residence affect
the revolutionary Fischhof to have believed. The two locations only the name in common, while
spelled Fischhof village is located in Carinthia. I knew it but otherwise.

It will not be perhaps inclined to the class of errors, for which I here the Enlightenment admit,
for very many or very significant to keep. I give out, however, if you can not reason, has
the same viewpoints on the evaluation of the incomparably more important Judgement errors of
the people in life and in science expand. Only the choicest and most balanced minds, it seems
possible, the image of the perceived external to preserve the reality on the bias, otherwise
it passes through the psychological individuality the perceiver experiences.

X.

Determinism. - Random and superstition. - Viewpoints.

As the general result of the above individual discussions can access
the following stand up: Some shortcomings of our mental health services
- whose common Character is to be determined at once in greater detail
- and some seemingly purposeless tasks prove, if one applies the method
of psychoanalytic investigation on them, as a well-motivated and determined
by the consciousness unknown motives.

Into the class to be classified to the explanatory phenomena, an emotional Blunder meet the following
conditions:

a) You must not go beyond a certain level, which is determined by our estimation and is denoted by the term
"within the width of the normal."

b) You must be the character of
the current and temporary disturbance bear itself.

We must the same performance previously executed correctly, or trust
us at any time, they correctly run.

When we are corrected by others, we must ensure the accuracy of the
correction and recognize the inaccuracy of our own mental process
immediately.

c) If we perceive the blunder at all, we can motivate
them by a nothing in our experience, but must be tried to explain
by "inattention" or to pass off as "accidental."

There thus remain in this group, the cases of forgetting and the errors with better Knowledge, the promise,
sorting, lay hands prescribing, and the so-called random acts. The same composition with the
prefix indicates Ver for most of these phenomena internal similarity
of language.

On intelligence of this so specific mental processes but builds on a series of comments that
bring some further interest allowed.

I. By a part of our psychological services as unaufklärbar by objectives
disclose, we fail to recognize the extent of determination in mental
life.

The same goes here and in other areas further than we imagine. I'm in 1900 in a Tower of the
literary historian RM Meyer in the "time" running and illustrated by examples found that it is impossible
to deliberately compose and arbitrary nonsense. Since some time, I know that it brings not materialize,
a number after free discretion to come up with any more than such
a name.

An examination of the apparently random formed, such as multi-digit, as in the joke or arrogance
marked number, it turns out the strict determination that they had not really thought possible.
I will now First an example of a randomly chosen first name, and
then briefly discuss an analog Example of a "casual thoughtless"

Number analyze in more detail.

α) in terms of a medical history of my patients prepare for publication, I was considering what
name should I give her at work. The choice seems very large; certainly close to some of the names
come from the front, foremost the real name, then the names of my own family, where I would take
offense, as yet other women's names of very strange sound, but otherwise
I needed to provide such Names to not be embarrassed.

One would expect and I expect even that to me make whole host of female names is available. Instead
of individual dives on, no second beside him, the name of Dora. I ask about his determination.
Who called because otherwise only Dora? Incredulous, I would reject the next idea, which is
that the nurse my sister's name. " But I have so much self-discipline or exercise in the analysis
that I hold the idea and go on spinning. That reminds me also immediately little incident of the
previous evening one, which brings the requested determination. I saw on the table in the dining
room of my sister a letter lie with the inscription: "To Miss Rosa W. "Surprised, I asked who say
so, and was informed that the alleged Dora Rosa really is, and pass it to their name when entering
the house had to, because can get my sister cry "Rosa" on their own person. I say regretfully:
The poor people, not even her name, they can keep! As I now recollect I then was silent for a moment
and started in all sorts of serious things to think about the Unclear
ran into, which I now might make it easy to realize.

When I am next day for a name for a person sought, could not maintain their own I was none other
than Dora one. The exclusivity is based on solid content here Link, because my patient did in
the story also for the course of treatment decisive influence of the strange house in the serving
person by a governess, her.

β) In a letter to my friend as I announce to him that I am now the corrections The Interpretation
of Dreams had been completed and nothing will change in the work, "it may also = 2467 = error
"mentioned. I try to immediately inform me that number and add the small Analysis or as a postscript
to the letter. The best way I now quote what I wrote then, I found myself in the act:

"Just a quick post on the psychopathology of everyday life. You can find the number in the letter
2467 as arrogant arbitrariness estimate of the errors will be found in the dream book. It should
hot: any large number, and then turns them on. But there is nothing arbitrary, Undetermined in the
psychic. So you will expect, and rightly, that the unconscious has hastened to determine the
number that was released from the subconscious. Now had I just previously read in the newspaper
that as a general EM field-marshal in the Retired. You have to know the man interests me. While
I as a military medical Apprentice served, he came once, then Colonel, in the sick leave and
said to the doctor have to "you but make me healthy in 8 days, for I have something to work,
which the Emperor is waiting. " At that time I decided to pursue the career of the man, and
behold, today (1899) is he at the end of it, Feldzeugmeister and already in retirement. I wanted
to figure out in which Time he traveled this road, and assumed that I saw him in 1882 in the hospital.
That would be So 17 years. I told my wife this and she notes, "Since You should therefore already
be in retirement, "And I protest: Before God preserve me. After that
conversation set I myself at the table to write to you.

The former train of thought continues, however, and with good reason. It was calculated wrong,
I have a fixed point for it in my memory. My coming of age mean = 24 = Birthday So I celebrated
in a military prison (because I had absented arbitrarily). That was in 1880, is 19 years ago.
Since you have now the number in 2467 = 24 =! Now take my age get number 43 and give 24 years are added,
You are the = 67 =!

That is the question of whether I want to connect even in retirement, I have in me Request for
another 24 years receive sets work. Apparently I offended you that I did in the Interval through
which I pursued the colonel level, myself have not gone far, and yet in a kind of triumph that he is ready
now, while I still Everything have before me. Since one can say with law, that not even unintentionally
thrown out Determination of their number in 2467 deprived from the unconscious. "

Since this was the first example of investigating a seemingly arbitrary number I repeated the same
experiment many times with the same success, but most cases are so intimate their intention to
withdraw the notice.


"John," she answered very gravely, "I have endeavored to do my duty as I saw it. I have tried
to bring Phyllis up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord."

The expression carried me back to my childhood, and I bit my lips. "Of course you have," I
said. "Wasn't I brought up in this same village, in the same way? 

Stunned Adalbert went to his room. The lot is cast! he cried wildly and threw himself into a
chair, and I have lost, he then added with a terrible cold - how could I also expect to win?
- Then he went long violently up and down, silently opened the Window and looked with eyes staring
into the moonlit area.

It was a beautiful summer night, the air trembled against him warm and lovely, the whole area was
still and quiet, with the moon shining through dark firs and threw in the distance on the slender
Alder lake an uncertain light, shadow and Helle fled and changed, oak and beech stood in light
shine and sparkling green dress, on each leaf gently shaking seemed a little flame to burn, and
through the night to shine. By the entangled branches slipped the beam of the moon and played
flowing and weaving on the green lawn, the whole area was known by the magical illumination
strange and unknown, the birches on the slope of the mountain were similar clouds that float in the
first ray of morning plunged upwards; their white trunks resembled spirits who climbed quietly
through the night clouds the mountain. Dropped complained from distant ponds, a nightingale sang in
the bushes her delightful song Feuerwürmchen floated like little
stars in the night and played happily in the white beam of the moon.

The cold despair Adalbert soon can dissolve in the tears of sadness. - If he Now comes the sounds
of the nightingale, when his eyes shining through the sky hurried, so it seemed the whole Today
nothing but a dream. - How could this disaster disfigure beautiful
world? he thought, and looked forward to the pleasant feeling when
he would wake up from this dream.

His imagination began a charming game with the rays of the moon, she recorded grass swaying in the image
of his Emma, ​​as soon as they ran to meet him happy, as soon as they Kneeling before her
father was and asked him for his blessing. In the wonderful creations of the moonlit He saw
clouds 'he soon monsters that his Emma pursued, then saw' himself, as he for they fought and
won - they gave him the crown of reward, and ran the wreath together
in a glowing dagger, but his eyes followed as long as the floating
clouds, until he found the myrtle wreath in it.

Sun raved about in his mind the sweetest dreams, it was like the wrath of Frederick in a far distance,
lovely pictures lived and moved in his soul and put a smile before
every sad memory, - as the moon gradually hereditary and the distant
hills the first gray light of day was shaking.

Suddenly, the beautiful veil torn, his temple embraced so gentle, all illusions the imagination
sank suddenly. The stars are extinguished, the nightingale fell silent, a sacred silence in nature
- and he found himself and his despair again. The daily came back all the feelings of pain
in his soul. All fantasies fled, the joys decreased with the moon
and under the cold morning wind was blowing the terrible conviction
: you are unhappy! I was much flustered by the ill omen, but I knew that
if I hesitated I was lost; so I advanced valorously, though with accelerated pulse, and said
with all the calmness I could command:

"Prudence, I think it only right to tell you that I am going to be married."

One apple rolled from the bowl down along the floor and under the kitchen stove. I cannot conceive
of any shock, however great, that would cause Prudence to lose more than one apple. Partly
to conciliate, and partly to conceal my own trepidation, I made a gallant effort to rescue
the wanderer, and as I poked the hiding-place with my stick, I heard her say: "Lord, I know'd
it'd come!"

"The fact that it has come, Prudence," I answered with a sickly attempt at gayety, "does not
seem to be a reason why you should call with such vehemence on your Maker. There does not appear
to be any need of Providential interposition. Things are not so bad as all that."

I always used my most elegant English when conversing with Prudence. If she did not understand
it, it flattered her to think that I paid this tribute to her intelligence.

"Mr. John," she said, and there was a suspicious break in her voice, "for twenty years I have
tried to do my duty by you, and now that I must go--"

"Go?" I interrupted; "who said you must go? Who spoke about anybody's going? You certainly
do not expect to turn that bowl of apples over to me and leave me to get breakfast?"

"No, Mr. John, I shall go on and do my duty, as I see it, until you have made all your plans
and are comfortable."

"Now, look here, Prudence, I am very comfortable as things are, thank you. And you will pardon
me if I say I cannot understand why you should go at all. I shall continue to eat, I hope,
after I am married, and I think it altogether probable that I shall require a house-keeper
and a cook. I believe they do have such things in well-regulated families."

"At my age, and with my experience, and considerin' how we have lived, Mr. John, I couldn't
get along with a mistress, 'specially," she added with a touch of malice, "with a woman considerable
older than me."

"Older than you? What are you talking about? Miss Kinglake is young enough to be your daughter."

Another apple rolled on the floor. "Miss Kinglake!" she exclaimed in astonishment, "that lamb?
Good Lord, I thought you were goin' to marry the other one!"

"Prudence," I said rather hotly, for I did not relish her amazement, "you will oblige me by
not speaking of these ladies as the 'lamb' and 'the other one.' I might gather from your remarks
that I am a sort of ravening wolf, instead of a well-meaning gentleman who is merely exercising
the privilege of selecting a wife. But," I said, checking myself, for I was ashamed of my explosion,
"I shall be magnanimous enough to believe that you are delighted with my choice, and that I
have your congratulations. You will be glad to know that Miss Kinglake and I are perfectly
satisfied with each other, and that we are both entirely satisfied with you. And now that we
understand the situation, I think I may presume that we shall have breakfast at the usual hour
this morning, and to-morrow morning, and for many mornings to come. And, by the way, Prudence,
while I have honored you with my confidence, permit me to impress it upon you that this revelation
is not village gossip as yet, and you will put me under further obligations by not mentioning
the circumstance. Good-morning, Prudence. Kindly call the ladies at eight o'clock."

And thereupon I hastily departed, leaving the good woman in a state of stupefaction, since,
for the first and only time in our long and controversial association, had I retired with the
last word. Taking a second turn in the garden I encountered Malachy, and my conscience reproached
me. "Am I doing right," I asked myself, "in withholding the glad news from this faithful servant
who has shown himself so worthy of my confidence? Is it not my duty to tell him--not so much
to interest him in his future mistress as to demonstrate the trust I repose in him?"

Malachy received my confidence with less excitement than I had expected. In fact I was slightly
humiliated by his seeming lack of gratitude. He touched his hat very respectfully, and observed
irrelevantly that the roses below the arbor were looking uncommonly well. This was a poor reward
for my attempt at consideration, and further convinced me of the uselessness of establishing
anything like intimate relations with the proletariat.

"By the way, Malachy," I said in parting, "you will keep this matter a profound secret. Miss
Kinglake and I are desirous that we shall not be annoyed by village chatter and premature congratulations."

Having discharged my duty to my good servants, I felt that my obligations, so far as the relation
with Phyllis was concerned, were at an end, and the morning wore away without further misgivings
of disloyalty. In the afternoon Bunsey came over for his daily smoke, and as we sat together
in the library, and I noticed the entire absence of suspicion in his manner, my heart smote
me. "Truly," I reasoned silently, "I am behaving ill to an old friend who has never withheld
from me the very secrets of his soul. Should I not be as generous, as outspoken, with him as
he has always proved to me? Should I not confide to him this one precious secret, at the same
time swearing him to preserve it as he would his life?"

I blew out a ring of smoke, and then I began with the utmost seriousness: "Bunsey, how do you
like the ladies?"

He shifted his position, tipped the ashes from his cigar, and replied tranquilly: "Oh, I dare
say I shall in time."

The answer vexed me. Bunsey was a bachelor, and should have been therefore the more impressionable. You get used to early grief - see Soon you know
the boy on a rugged rock climbing, and tremble at every step, the youth does not come back from
the hunt, hurry, and every neigh, every hoof of a horse you to the window, but he is not expecting
your sleepless eyes staring through the darkness the night - and if you do it away from you know,
in the throng of battle, - first as a Father, the knight with the fear of acquaintance. - All
the joys of his previous life, seligverflossene every hour, every beautiful memories, the happiness
of the past and future weaves the old man into a joyful ring and wraps it around the helmet of
the youth, - Ah! and how many thousand swords can tear this wreath. We put our whole Assets
on a litter, and tremble at every moment we have to fall into poverty. - It is Most certainly
better to be the father of a promising daughter!

Friedrich. You are ungrateful to the kind fate. - The boys are a youth see, find themselves
in each of his deeds, - call me a joy that larger it than this. - And if he returns now, if
he now breaks down from that mountain again, before him the glory, the joy of the people behind him,
his right hand in a captured flag, now if he rushes to your arms, what then?

Konrad (dries the eyes.) Then? - Well then I'll give you right, but probably not.

Friedrich.

Always I find you yet again but in the old Conrad, who always in
the word and so must keep fighting lance field. - Drink! impact on!
to the glory of your son!

Konrad. And the happiness of your daughter!

Friedrich. Do you think that I am unconcerned for her? - Do we want to share with our children,
Konrad?

Konrad. Friend and comrade in arms! - An idea comes to me again, I thought many times at night
when I sleep in my lonely chamber lay, and the wind around the castle
tower saußte - you be the father of my son, your daughter is mine,
but so that none of we lose the right to his child.

Friedrich. Topp, old friend! - Since you have the hand of a knight who has never been his word
broke! - For God and chivalry! not as your Karl will be the husband of my daughter; - Only
he has to return with honor.

Konrad. He will when he returns, but guarantee you let the old Konrad. With fame, or we never see him
again. -

Friedrich. Old friend! The wine has made me very happy. - What a lovely future I see flowers up! - Everywhere
beckons the most beautiful flower of life, "Father Joy! - In this garden we want to rest until
we sleep over in an even more beautiful.

       

The old man pushed his hand in silence, their joy was a melancholy become, a Few large tears fell
hard from her eyes, which they mistake for a beautiful tears of joy held. They did not realize
that they produced the fearful doubt: "Will these dreams come true ? Go, "

They sat for a long time together in intimate conversation, telling
again the story their youth and their manhood.

The faces of old men glowed full of youthful vigor, both forgot that they were old men.

The midnight hour she cried out from their talks, everybody was cheerful in his bedroom.

* * * * *

Everything was already asleep in the castle, the rising moon broke
his twilight rays through the Arched windows, a holy silence hung
over the forest floor and with a slight slow-flight, only The castle
bell sounded through the solemn solitude as the quiet steps pulled
Emma's along the walls of the great Ganges, which divided the rooms
of the castle hinrauschten.

She had Adalbert seen in the distance, and seemed about as of now
"to meet.

Both looked happy is in the eye, for they were now "watched by over any tiresome. "My Emma," cried
Adalbert, and quickly shut the girls in his arms.

"Are you finally back," Emma began, - "Oh! you only knew how many you give me grief, however
have made the whole castle, however, was so close to me like a prison,
the floor was for me a monastery kennel, since mountains and forests
so I joined a round about, and separated me from you. - The garden
seemed bleak and dark, the blue of the sky was gloomy than usual over
my head - tell me, - which has now "made everything back, so bright
and free"?

Adalbert. The sun of love, Emma!

Emma. Your beautiful eyes, Adalbert! - Oh! how much did 'I suffered for you, "now only knows I
like dearly how indispensable you are to me. Resistant've thought I to you, and when my imagination,
no matter how far swarming, so was the return to you, her dear Home, but always the next one:
the thought which had seemed the farthest, but immediately one with love. - When things up "now
and I'm nothing, I thought very much, Past and future - you! - I
chatter, rather Adalbert! but the joy is so talkative. -

Adalbert.

And what lovers heard this not like gossip?

Emma. The other day I went over those withered tree, - I have passed away before him a hundred
times, but not with this strange feeling - I suddenly thought of
that year, in which he blossomed yet, but I was still a child when
I leaned against him once the spring corridor surveyed; - He flourished
at that time so beautiful, the sun shone so brightly in his trembling
leaves, oh! as I was happy - the whole of nature and the tree seemed
happy with me, - "now" was he there when he looked upon me sad, as
if it pained him that he was not happy could being. - How different
was now "all around me as formerly, and yet I was this Memory only
as of yesterday. - Oh! Adalbert! then I thought of you and me. -

Adalbert.

You frighten me, Emma! I was so happy, you made me sad.

Emma. You would not believe Adalbert! how strange to me in that single moment the world occurred,
and the past seemed like a dream, the future is a shadow. - As the spring escapes your luck,
told me the serious tree, you will soon, very soon be unhappy. -

Adalbert.

Chase away this black forebodings, let this cruel game of your imagination! - Emma can, may not
be unhappy!

Emma. That they can, I felt at every moment of your absence. - Adalbert Oh! I'm beginning to
think that misfortune is very cheap, so I will look at these ideas .

Accustom

Adalbert.

You're right. - Misfortune is indeed the prize for which we our little happiness in this buy
lives. - You, sigh Emma? - Heaven! are you crying? - Oh! I understand
that Sigh, these tears. - Can I still ask the fate of Emma is once
the mine?

Emma. To exchange some misfortune for uncertain hopes?

Let them be-ing uncertain, it are always hopes.

Adalbert. And these hopes will never be despair? If this beautiful fruit never dried up falling
from the tree? - Oh, Emma! - Winter is coming at last, and summer and autumn are just a beautiful
dream was. - What then?

Emma. Then we refresh ourselves at the memory of this beautiful dream,
like children in the dark awaken and fall asleep again like you want.

Adalbert. Emma! is your father ever poor orphan miners Adalbert, nothing but his Sword has to make happy
with your hand? - He, the Lord of so many castles, the owner great
treasures?

Will he ever learn?

Emma. Do you think that I will definitely say: I do not think so. - But why do We only ever doubt?
- He has taught you, he loves you as his son, he appreciates your
Bravery - Adalbert! we do not know what gives birth to the next hour,
why do we continue to look for on future years? - "Now" of carrying
on Diess green band around your Poor, perhaps it reminds you in the
struggle to attempt your life is not unnecessary.

Adalbert. Green is the color of hope.

Emma. And the mine. Lose Do not think it was a pledge to you my eternal
love and fidelity.

Adalbert.

Even if the color is fading? -

Emma.

Even then.

"Now rushing the door of a private chamber, the two old knight came
out, a silent handshake and Adalbert and Emma left. - -

Everything
was loud and busy in the castle, the sun had been some hours risen
when the gates of stone man was holding a knight, and demanded to
be let be.

The gates opened, he dismounted in the courtyard, and was then to the old hall Friedrich out.

Frederick
went to meet him, let him sit down, ordered him to hand a cup of wine, and then asked what
his desires?

"I am a messenger," I began the strange knight.

"You are So I welcome in my castle again," said Friedrich - "But who sends you"?

Ritter. The Knight Manfred, you will be well known.

Friedrich. What he desires?

Ritter. He is inclined to terminate his feud with you to make peace, and your friend be.

Friedrich. My friend? -

       Ritter. But only under one condition -

Friedrich.

Is she? -

Ritter. Your beautiful daughter! -

Frederick jumped up, struck angrily with his hand on the table and looked at the angry knight
at. Then he went with long strides up and down. - At last he stopped, looked at the Knights
with another long and important to, and then spoke in a loud, strong
voice that sometimes only by a suppressed rage shook, "Go back, Knight!
and tells the infamous Manfred that tend to throw my castle in ruins,
that I prefer my own hand Daughter murdered, as will know in his arms.
- A knight, not a murderer should you are Gemal; our feud is not finished,
can not be ended because it is the duty each brave knight to eradicate
predators, and a robber is Manfred. - Tell him only that I have not
forgotten how he treacherously murdered the Count von Otter field,
as it by the nobles of Löwenau castles and estates are pressed illegally;
tell him that my Sword in its sheath still not calm, but was ready
to renew the fight. - Will he do not believe you, so he may get the
answer by myself in the plain.

"

In silence stood the knight, mounted his horse and galloped away without just a view to throw back
to the castle.

Friedrich was a long up and down until his anger in a friendly conversation lost to Konrad
von Burg rock gradually.

* * * * *

In the evening, Conrad and Frederick Manfred had already forgotten the embassy. The wine, made
that in the future, what she dreamed of happiness and joy everywhere
only saw and therefore harmless, at ease forgot the sad truth that
every moment is a could produce disaster.

Emma, ​​however, was a bow window, looking in the beautiful area beyond which the Moon illuminated.
She dreamed in the future over a thousand convenient structure flew in her mind on where they saw
always on the side of her Adalbert.

The air was warm and lovely. A soft noise, also called the memory of the woods Past in her soul
back.

To get this feeling to all up, she slipped slowly on the balcony of the castle and saw "now with
that quiet delight on their paternal Down corridors, with which the
lovers in the evening glow of the memories last seen happiness.

"Now hovering just over the moon or a distant hill, then he sank slowly,
and a pale trembling shine once again flew over the oak woods, they
were serious and dark as, the farthest western clouds appeared in
the passing floating in a pale golden Shimmer, and soon the whole
neighborhood was in darkness shrouded, dark and gruesome as the future
of the one who punishes evil.

"O image of happiness," exclaimed Emma. - "So the last hope died on the grave of her lover,
so the last flower fades in the crown of human pleasures, so the wind blows the last flower
from the withering tree. "

A hot tear in her eye grew slowly.

Everything was quiet and solemn, "now the wind was silent, black clouds
hung among the seriously Splendor of the stars of distant woods, and
already started from the owl her lonely lament the Felsenhöle - as
it roars like a forest stream in the distance, it roars along like
a swarm Ghosts that travel through the oak forest - a rain Involuntary
trembling slowly of Emma's body back. -

Hooves of horses as there
was now "closer, like a sound of armor. - How is the Rock a black
cloud creeps, so drew a gloomy band now "the wall of the castle.

Emma wanted to go back and hurry into the room of her father, but she felt too weak, a unknown
force kept them back by force, they pushed his quivering in the corner of the arbor.

"now it floated over the wall over, - it has swept through the ditch of the castle - there
suddenly blared loud and terrible from the battlements of the castle guard tower of the trumpet,
and Emma recoiled violently.

Suddenly, the whole castle was moved, the alarm bell sounded terrible, tanks rattled Horses
neighing, kicking roared loudly through all the rooms, voices sounded confused confused - It was like
in a dream, great drops of anguish stood on her forehead, and her
Increased anxiety at last so high that, with a painful pleasure the
development this terrible dream awaited.

Once again, everything suddenly shouted loud confused, armor rang, swords rattled, then a brief
silence, broken by a new cry, the warriors raged as two storms to
today. - "Now she heard Adalbert course, he walked through the halls,
the balcony over, she wanted to call out his name, but there was no
sound to their bid.

When it was over, she cried out, "Adalbert" - but he could no longer hear this call!. They pulled
himself violently, and fled hastily through the halls, pale and trembling,
she rushed through the lonely castle, which sounded muffled up the
fight from a distance, they ran through a hidden door, rushed over
the drawbridge, established after the open field, where her the stars
pale and frightened over her head seemed to flicker.

Here they sat down on a small hill and looked back to the castle, which, like enveloped in clouds
of mist lay there. - The blare of trumpets sounded through the quiet night, widely flew the loud
sound of mountains and forests, broken, smashed the echo on for distant rock the sounds, and then
faded as the roar of the battle sank. -

The light of torches now "jumped through the darkness of the night, shadows fled back and forth
Bright night and fought with each other, all the horrors offered his hand, and hovered horribly
before Emma's eyes, which finally covered her face with her hands.

The noise of the fight you got closer, her warriors fled over other closely, fell pursued to the
ground, she heard the death rattle of agony and trembled even more.

A cavalry come, therefore, followed the refugees, she jumps up and rushes breathlessly into
his Arms! - It was Adalbert. -

"Adalbert! Adalbert, "she called in a trembling voice, and is expressed
in almost unconscious his chest - "save me!"

Manfred wins, "he exclaimed furiously," but a good angel let me find
you, my courage to strengthen. - Back in the fight! - Ha! the Meutre!
- The castle on fire '!

He let her down gently, and rushed away wildly.

Emma closed her eyes because she could still hear the terrible words: the castle is on fire!
- At last she looked up and finish so here, - what a sight! - Kühn
rolled a Flame from the castle skyward, like a wave in the storm surged
majestically to and fro, and overlooked with bold eyes the whole area.
- The moat was glowing in the reflection of all forests and the mountains
tottered back and forth on the quivering splendor flames, sparks were
flying high like stars through the night, and fell down next to Emma
in the wet grass, extinguishing! -

By the light they saw the fighters
rage against each other, arms against arms tireless work repealed;
swords like distant lightning gleamed through the night, trumpets
and horns echoed like thunder. - Her eyes closed tired and blinded.

She opened it with difficulty after a long time, the flame was sunk, the sound of Struggle had disappeared,
the most terrible silence lay heavy and oppressive to all of nature.
- Doubt shook her soul "now, an even more terrible uncertainty took
the place the last horror. - "God," she said lautseufzend, and in
a tone of despair.

"Emma," she sighed softly from a nearby bushes
with the moaning voice of a dying man. Emma shook. It rattled in the
foliage. - "My father," she exclaimed, and rushed into the arms Friedrichs,
the wounded and fled hither was sunk. -

"The blaze is raging in the
castle of my fathers," he said faintly.

"No!" Said "Emma," the flame
is extinguished. "

"Now thanks be to God," Frederick replied and
got up.

Emma with her arms around him, as she felt the blood of the
old man's flowing over her hand.

! "Heaven" she cried, "my father,
your blood" - she quickly tore her veil and dressed the wound as carefully
as it allowed the darkness of the night. Friedrich kissed and she
pressed them silently to his chest. - "Oh, I'm happy," he finally
said, "there! I've recovered, but may Manfred rage in my castle, if
only you stay mine; may consume the fire of my treasures, if I can
just press on my chest. - I'm not unhappy! "-

The day began to dawn,
dark clouds are lined with soft red, a cold morning breeze blew, the
area emerged gradually out of the night, and swung with golden plumage
at last the dawn from the deep up, and his brilliant Fittig embraced
the eastern Horizon. I tried to dismiss the incident of the garden
as the temporary folly of a romantic girl, which would wear itself out with a week's absence.
Why should it trouble me? Had I been lacking in kindness or affection? Should I be disturbed
because a few boat rides and the influence of moonlight had wrought on a mere child? Was I
not secure in her promise, and had I not heard her say she had given her word? As for Frederick,
was he not my debtor? Had he not confessed it? Then why give more thought to the matter? It
was awkward, but both were young and both would outlive it. Sylvia and I were young, and we
outlived it.

But still kept ringing in my ears that despairing half-whisper: "It is for the best."

Petulantly I threw away my cigar and went up to my room. I walked over to the dressing-case
and turned up the gas. The shadow displeased me and I lighted the opposite jet. Then I stood
squarely before the mirror and looked critically at the reflection.

Yes, John Stanhope, you are growing old. That expanding forehead, with the retreating hairs,
tells the tale of time. The gray upon your cheeks is whitening and the razor must be used more
vigilantly to further deception. Those creases in your face can no longer be dismissed as character
lines; the shagginess of your eyebrows has the flying years to account for it. Plainly, John,
you and humbug must part company. You are not of this generation and it is not for you.

I turned down the gas, threw open the window and let the moonlight filter in through the elms
and over the tops of the little pines. The soft beauty of the night soothed me, and gradually
and very gently my irritation and annoyance slipped away. Why should not a young girl, radiant
in youth and beauty, affect a young man of her generation? What has an old fellow, with all
his money and worldly experience and burnt-out youth, to give in exchange for that intoxication
which every girl may properly regard her lawful gift? Undoubtedly I should make a better husband,
as husbands go, than my romantic nephew, and any woman of rare common sense would see the advantages
of my position, but why burden a woman with that rare common sense which robs her of the first
and sweetest of her dreams? No, John Stanhope, go back to your pipe and your books and your
gardening, your life of selfish, indolent do-nothing. Take life as it comes most easily and
naturally. By sparing one heart you may save two.

And that nephew of mine--what a fine, manly fellow he proved himself when put to the test!
The governor had been good to him and he was going to stand by the governor. How my heart jumped,
and what a warm little feeling there was about the internal cockles as I recalled his words.
Bravely said, my boy, and nobly done! I fear I should not have been so generous at your age,
and with Sylvia--

And with Sylvia! How the past crowded back at the thought of her! Who are you, old dreamer,
who neglected the gift the good gods provided in the heydey of your youth to return to chase
the phantom of the past? Behind that little white cloud, sailing far into the north, Sylvia
may be peeping at you, and smiling at the delusion of her ancient wooer. Or why not think that
she is pleading with you--pleading for her child and the lover, as she might have pleaded for
herself and somebody else, had somebody else known his own heart before it was too late?

I watched the white cloud as it passed on and on, growing smaller and fainter as it receded.
I settled back still deeper in my chair and sighed. And then--O unworthy knight of love!--and
then, I fell asleep.

In the morning, before the family was astir, I wrote a note, pleading a sudden and imperative
call to town, and vanished for the day. I argued with myself that such a step was a delicate
consideration for a young woman, who, having listened to a confession of love a few hours before,
would be hardly at her ease at a breakfast-table conversation. Incidentally I was not altogether
sure of myself, although I was much refreshed by an excellent night's sleep which comes to
every philosopher with courage and strength to rise above the unpleasant things of life. If
Phyllis had yielded to an emotion of grief, there was little trace of it when we met at evening.
I fancied that she was somewhat paler, and her manner at times seemed a little listless, but
otherwise there was no great departure from her usual demeanor. As for myself the long sunshine
of a summer day and the conviction that at last the opportunity had come to me to play the
rôle of a minor hero gave me a peace that amounted almost to buoyancy. No need had I of the
teachings of the musty old philosophers reposing on my bookshelves. John Stanhope had learned
more of life in a few short hours than all his tomes could impart. His books had helped him
many times in diagnosing the cases of his friends; when John fell ill they mocked and deceived him.

Opportunely enough Phyllis followed me into the library, and when at my request she sat on
a little stool at my feet, and I held her hand and stroked her soft light hair, a pang went
through my heart, for I felt that she might be near me for the last time. The philosopher had
yet much to learn. For several minutes we were both silent. Of the two I was doubtless the
more ill at ease, though I concealed it bravely.

"Phyllis," I said at last, "did you ever get over a childish fondness for fairy-stories?"

She smiled at this--was I wrong in fancying that her smile was that of sadness?--and answered:
"I hope not."

"Because," I went on, bending over and affectionately patting the hand I held, "a little fairy-tale
has been running through my head all day, and I have decided that you shall be the first to
hear it and pass on its merits. And because," I added gayly, "if it has your approval I may
wish to publish it. Spared an unhappy man, ask him about his misfortune, it is a blow give up his wound.

The
stranger lifted the visor of the predator, the Adalbert had killed.
- Ha!

Manfred! he exclaimed.

Manfred? shouted Adalbert. - Yes, by God!

Do you have to pay me here your fault? - Well you will not want berennen the fortress of Frederick.
-

Come with me, young hero, "said the stranger, accompanied me to
my castle, I am the Knight of Löwenau if you do not my name should
be unknown. The princess was as young and innocent--I was going to say
as simple--as she was beautiful, and the wicked troll talked so much of his experience in the
world, and boasted so hugely of his wealth and generosity and other shining virtues, that the
imagination of the poor little princess was quite fired, and she was flattered into thinking
that here was a treasure not to be lightly put aside. And so, in a foolish moment she consented
to be his bride, and he took her away to his castle--I believe trolls do have castles--to make
ready for the marriage. What made me burning hot, when
her eyes lingered on me? - Friendship is not this feeling when it's not love is, I'm mad! -
But it is love, Adalbert to see how a man a Passion defeated.

Defeat? as if this would be to defeat something. - As if it were already agreed that I loved
her! - It can, it should not be. I want with all my masculinity armor, it is one Adalbert,
he loves him, I have promised him, - a man, A knight must keep his promise and when to reason he
would go about it themselves.

       He hurried back to the castle, and was glad of this victory.

* * * * *

Emma had a few times, however, again approached the window without
being noticed by Löwenau.

You could see the beautiful man never without a certain sympathy, and this sympathy was very
soon the desire to: if that loved you! Without knowing it, she spun because this dream continues,
and the playful fancies connected with the question: do you love him?

She was frightened no longer on this question during the meal she had in these Ideas used to.
- Very quiet her heart began to answer this question in the affirmative, she had already loved
him before she thought the possibility of this love here, now it was only at this Love only
her consent. This was the first moment in which they have a kind of Joy felt that Adalbert was
not present at the castle, the memory of his love lived only very slightly in her soul, just like the
memory of yesterday's Supper the majestic sunrise. She felt that she is far from their Adalbert so
loved, I love them as they could, indeed, it began So on even to deny their feelings, it was
like she thought she now had only been her friend. The phenomenon was Löwenau's ever to be reflected
image of the shadow of indifference, from the love of the beloved Subject to the brightest light
draws forth. All the perfections of which they used to be on Adalbert admired, it was not equal
to more perfect Löwenau again and that nothing remained at the end as his faults, she had always
counted among its other benefits, and as one other also like to sue
you for his own mistakes, they believed in the fact that he did not
at least leave taken away from her, had to find proof that he had
never loved her. - In this Condition, it was very much calming, and
so she was finally convinced.

The true love the sensation of fine and coarse, lofty and low, the previously common People,
they often raises the generosity, the superior man falls down to the commons, and the very same
Song that lives on each instrument in other tones. Emma What else always with contempt looked
upon, had seemed to her now "important, liked the decorated Löwenau it is a large part more than
he would have fallen without her jewelry, she confessed to this feeling,
and decided turn to from now on more attention to their cleaning.

I saw them even the memory Adalbert to do a little more indifferent, because he had only been her
father's squire.

Löwenau just wanted to go through the large passage in the Assembly of the Knights, as Emma,
​​perhaps coincidentally, perhaps on purpose, because they see it had come back, stepped out
of the room.

You here, Miss? Löwenau called somewhat hastily.

She blushed, for
she believed in these words, and in the way he spoke, some unwillingness
to see the knight, or the thought came that it was because of him.
- In order to go to the garden, she replied, adding she wanted to
jump over quickly. -

It flees me? said the knight.

"So we are going to make a new start and begin right. To-morrow I shall see Frederick and make
a proposition to him, and if that rascal does not give up his heroics and come down to his
plain duty as I see it--well, so much the worse for him. No, don't raise objections"--she had
started to speak--"for I am always quarrelsome when I cannot have my own way. Go to your room
and think it over, and remember," I said more gently, for that old tide of the past was coming
in, "that you are Sylvia's daughter, and that Sylvia would have trusted me and counselled you
to obey me in all things."

Slowly and with averted face Phyllis rose and walked toward the door. I had commanded her,
and yet I felt a sharp pang of bitterness that she had yielded so quickly to my words. It seemed
at the moment that everything was passing out of my life; that Phyllis, that Sylvia, that all
the once sweet, continuous memory was lost to me forever. I could not call her back, and I
could not hope that she would return. Philosopher that I was I could not explain the sinking
and the fear that took possession of me. The philosopher did not know himself. All his thought
and all his reasoning could not solve the simple riddle the quick intuition of a girl made clear.

She had reached the door before she paused. Then she turned. I had risen mechanically and stood
looking at her. As slowly she came back and waited as if for me to speak. And when the dull
philosopher groped helplessly for words and could not meet the appealing eyes, she put her
hands on his shoulders, and laid her warm, young face on his heart, and said, "Father!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The night was peacefully beautiful. I had strolled out of the garden and down to the river,
and there along the bridle-path on the winding bank I walked for miles. 

Frederick's wound did not bleed more, and he felt stronger than he in the distance zusprengen
a mountain of a troop of riders on the saw, Adalbert was at its peak.

"Victory! ! Victory, "crowed the jubilant crowd,"! Victory "the valley echoed with his rock again;
! "Victory," said Emma to joy, a tear of joy fell from her eyes quickly, and a beautiful blush
passed over her pale face. Frederick got up quickly at the word,
and looked around again so bold as he was used otherwise. Life seemed so contrary, so bewildering, for I thought of the wedding music
in those early mornings at my boyhood home, and I wondered at the optimism of Nature in attuning
all emotions to a joyous note.

Again in my garden I saw a half-light in Phyllis's room. Since it is known that the
memory under the impression he presented a selection of hits, one stands here before Assuming
that this selection of childhood according to quite different principles is going on, than
at the time of intellectual maturity.

Something in my voice sent a smile to her eyes and gladness to her heart, as, half leaning
from the window, she kissed her hand to me and called back softly: "Good-night, father dear!" Vischer the "Malice
  of the object" attributes, I would like similar statements . Suggest

[15]
  In the days while I was writing down these pages was busy, I'm following
almost incredible case of Forget happen.

   The has
  strangest example of this kind to me as a man's own experience Lederer
  says. He met his honeymoon in Venice a superficially known him Lord
  together, he's young Woman had imagined.
  

Page 142: Changed typo "moolight" to "moonlight."

