Clovers send down a tap root into the soil and subsoil as they grow. From the tap roots branch
off lateral roots in an outward and downward direction. From these laterals many rootlets penetrate
through the soil. When the plants are numerous, these roots and rootlets fill the soil. When
it is broken up, therefore, particles of soil are so separated that they tend to fall apart,
hence the soil is always made more or less friable, even when it consists of the stiffest clays.
The shade furnished by the clover also furthers friability. This friability makes the land
easier to work, and it is also more easily penetrated by the roots of plants. The influence
on aeration is also marked. The air can more readily penetrate through the interstices in the
soil, and, in consequence, chemical changes in the soil favorable to plant growth are facilitated.

The roots of clovers are usually so numerous that they literally fill the soil with vegetable
matter. This matter, in process of decay, greatly increases the power of the soil to hold moisture,
whether it falls from the clouds or ascends from the subsoil through capillary attraction.
The moisture thus held is greatly beneficial to the plants that immediately follow, especially
in a dry season and in open soils, and the influence thus exerted frequently goes on, though
with decreasing potency, for two, three or four seasons.

Reference has already been made to the tap root which clover sends down into the soil and subsoil.
In the strong varieties this tap root goes down deeply. When the crop is plowed up, the roots
decay, and when they do, for a time at least, they furnish channels down which the surface
water percolates, if present in excess. Thus it is that clover aids in draining lands under
the conditions named. The channels thus opened do not close immediately with the decay of the
clover roots, hence the downward movement of water in the soil is facilitated for some time
subsequently.

It has been stated that clovers have more power than some other plants to gather plant food
in the soil. In some instances they literally fill the soil with their roots. When other plants
are sown after the clover has been broken up they feed richly on the decaying roots of the
clover. Thus it is that clover gathers food for other plants which they would not be so well
able to gather for themselves, and puts it in a form in which it can be easily appropriated
by these. The nitrogen in clover is yielded up more gradually and continuously as nitrates
than it could be obtained from any form of top dressings that can be given to the land. In
this fact is found one important reason why cereal grains thrive so well after clover.

Since the roots of clovers act so beneficently on soils, it is highly important that they be
increased to the greatest extent practicable. Owing to the relation between the growth of the
roots of plants and the parts produced above ground, development in root growth is promoted
much more when the clover is cut for hay than when it is fed off by grazing. Experiments have
also demonstrated that the development of root growth is much enhanced in medium red clover
by taking a second cutting for hay or seed. They have also demonstrated that more nitrogen
is left in the soil by clover roots after a seed crop than after a crop of hay.

From what has been said, it will be apparent that the extent to which clovers enrich the soil
will depend upon the strength of the growth of the plants and certain other conditions. It
will not be possible to reduce to figures the additions in plant food which clovers add to
the soil other than in a comparative way. Dr. Kedzie is on record as having said that in the
hay or sod furnished by a good crop of clover, there is enough nitrogen for more than four
average crops of wheat, enough phosphoric acid for more than two average crops and enough of
potash for more than six average crops. He has said, moreover, that the roots and stubble contain
fully as much of these elements as hay.

It will also be apparent that where clover grows in good form no cheaper or better way can
be adopted in manuring land, and that in certain areas the judicious use of land plaster on
the clover hastens the renovating process. It is thought that in some instances the mere loading
and spreading of barnyard manure costs more than the clover and plaster. Especially will this
be true of fields distant from the farm steading. It is specially important, therefore, that
in enriching these, clover will be utilized to the fullest extent practicable.

=Clover as a Weed Destroyer.=--Where clover is much grown, at least in some of its varieties,
it becomes an aid in reducing the prevalence of many forms of weed growth. It is thus helpful
in some instances, because of the number of the cuttings secured; in others because of its
smothering tendencies, and in yet others because of the season of the year when it is sown
and harvested or plowed under, as the case may be.

Alfalfa and medium red clover are cut more frequently than the other varieties and, therefore,
because of this, render more service than these in checking weed growth. The former is cut
so frequently as to make it practically impossible for most forms of annual weed life to mature
seed in the crop. The same is true of biennials and also perennials. But there are some forms
of perennial weeds which multiply through the medium of their rootstocks that may eventually
crowd alfalfa. Medium red clover is usually cut twice a year, hence, in it annuals and biennials
cannot mature seed, except in exceptional instances, and because of the short duration of its
life, perennials have not time to spread so as to do much harm.

The clovers that are most helpful in smothering weeds are the mammoth, the medium and the alsike
varieties. These are thus helpful in the order named. To accomplish such an end they must grow
vigorously, and the plants must be numerous on the ground. When grown thus, but few forms of
weed life can make any material headway in the clover crop. Even perennials may be greatly
weakened, and in some instances virtually smothered by such growth of clover. To insure a sufficient
growth of clover it may be advantageous to top dress the crop with farmyard manure sufficiently
decayed, and in the case of medium red clover to dress the second cutting with land plaster.
If the second growth is plowed under, subsequent cultivation of the surface will further aid
in completing the work of destruction.

The crimson variety is sown and also harvested at such a time that the influence on weed eradication
is very marked. The ground is usually prepared in the summer and so late that weeds which sprout
after the clover has been sown cannot mature the same autumn. In the spring it is harvested
before any weeds can ripen. When plowed under, rather than harvested, the result is the same.

When clover is grown in short rotations, its power to destroy weeds is increased. For instance,
when the medium red or mammoth varieties are grown in the three years' rotation of corn or
some root crop, followed by grain seeded with clover, the effects upon weed eradication are
very marked, if the cultivation given to the corn or roots is ample. Under such a system weeds
could be virtually prevented from maturing seeds at any time, especially if the medium variety
of clover were sown, and if the stubbles were mown some time subsequent to the harvesting of
the grain crop. Such a system of rotation faithfully carried out for a number of years should
practically eradicate all, or nearly all, the noxious forms of weed life.

=Clover Sickness.=--On certain of the soils of Great Britain and probably on those of other
countries in Europe, where clover has been grown quite frequently and for a long period, as
good crops cannot be grown as previously, and in some instances the crop is virtually a failure.
The plants will start from seed in the early spring and grow with sufficient vigor for a time,
after which they will show signs of wilting and finally they die. Various theories were advanced
for a time as to the cause before it was ascertained by experiment what produced these results.
Some thought they arose from lack of water in the soil, others claimed that they were due to
the presence of parasites, which in some way preyed upon the roots, others again attributed
them to improper soil conditions. It is now just about certain that they arose from a deficiency
of soluble potash in the subsoil. Such, at least, was the conclusion reached by Kutzleb as
the result of experiments conducted with a view to ascertain the cause of clover wilt.

The cause being known, the remedy is not difficult. It is to grow clover less frequently on
such soils. Sufficient time must be given to enable more of the inert potash in the subsoil
to become available. Another way would be to apply potash somewhat freely to these soils, and
subsoil them where this may be necessary.

It is thought that clover sickness is as yet unknown in the United States and Canada, although
its presence had sometimes been suspected in some sections where clover has been much grown.
This does not mean that it may not yet come to this country. Should the symptoms given above
appear on soils on which clover has been grown frequently and for a long period, it would be
the part of wisdom to take such indications as a hint to grow clover less frequently in the
rotation.

=Possible Improvement in Clovers.=--Some close observers have noticed that there is much lack
of uniformity in the plants found growing in an ordinary field of clover, especially of the
medium red and mammoth varieties. Many of the plants vary in characteristics of stem, leaf,
flower and seed; in the size and vigor of the plants; in the rapidity with which they grow;
and in earliness or lateness in maturing. So great are these differences that it may be said
they run all the way from almost valueless to high excellence. Here, then, is a wide-open door
of opportunity for improving clover plants through selection. This question has not been given
that attention in the past which its importance demands.

There may be a difference in view as to all the essential features of improvement that are
to be sought for, but there will probably be agreement with reference to the following in desirable
varieties: 1. They will have the power to grow quickly and continuously under average conditions.
This power will render them valuable as pasture plants in proportion as they possess it. 2.
They will produce many stems not too coarse in character. This will affect favorably the character
of the hay and will also have a bearing on increase in the production of seed. 3. There should
be an abundance of leaves. Such production will affect favorably palatability in the pasture
and also in the hay. 4. The blossoms should be so short that the honey which they contain may
be accessible to the ordinary honey bee. The importance of this characteristic cannot be easily
overestimated. It would not only tend to a great increase in seed production through the favorable
influence which it would have on fertilization, but it would greatly increase the honey harvest
that would be gathered every year, and 5. They should be possessed of much vigor and hardihood;
that is, they should have much power to grow under adverse conditions, as of drought and cold.
The person who will furnish a variety of red clover possessed of these characteristics will
confer a boon on American agriculture.

=Bacteria and Clovers.=--The fact has long been known, even as long ago as the days of Pliny,
and probably much before those days, that clover, when grown in the rotation, had the power
to bring fertility to the soil. This fact was generally recognized in modern agriculture and
to the extent, in some instances, of giving it a place even in the short rotations. But until
recent decades, it was only partially known how clover accomplished such fertilization. It
was thought it thus gathered fertility by feeding deeply in the subsoil, and through the plant
food thus gathered, the root system of the plants were so strengthened in the cultivated surface
section of soil as to account for the increased production in the plants that followed clover.
According to this view, the stems and leaves of the plants were thus equally benefited and,
consequently, when these were plowed under where they had grown these also added plant food
to the cultivated portion of the soil, in addition to what it possessed when the clover seed
which produced the plants was sown upon it. In brief, this theory claimed that fertility was
added by the clover plants gathering fertility in the subsoil and depositing it so near the
surface that it became easily accessible to the roots of other plants sown after the clover
and which had not the same power of feeding so deeply. This theory was true in part. The three
important elements of plant food, nitrogen, phosphoric acid and potash, were and are thus increased
in the soil, but this does not account for the source from which the greater portion of the
nitrogen thus deposited in the soil was drawn, as will be shown below.

It was also noticed that when the seed of any variety of clover was sown on certain soils,
the plants would grow with more or less vigor for a time and then they would fail to make progress,
and in some instances would perish. It was further noticed that if farmyard manure was applied
freely to such land, the growth made was more vigorous. Yet, again, it was noticed that by
sowing clover at short intervals on such soils, the improvement in the growth of the plants
was constant. But it was not understood why clover plants behaved thus under the conditions
named. It is now known that ill success at the first was owing to the lack of certain micro-organisms,
more commonly termed bacteria, in the soil, the presence of which are essential to enable clover
plants to secure additional nitrogen to that found in the soil and subsoil on which to feed.
When manure was applied, as stated above, the clover plants secured much or all of their nitrogen
from the manure. Bacteria were introduced in very limited numbers at first, it may be through
the medium of the seed or in some other way, and because of an inherent power which they possess
to increase rapidly in connection with continued sowing of clover at short intervals, they
came at length to be so numerous in the soil as to make possible the growth of good crops of
clover where these could not be thus grown a few years previously.

Careful observers had noticed that certain warty-like substances were found attached to the
roots of clover plants, and that the more vigorously the plants grew, the larger and more numerous
were these substances, as a rule. It was thought by many that these warty substances, now spoken
of as nodules, were caused by worms biting the roots or because of some unfavorable climatic
influence or abnormal condition of soil. It is now known that they are owing to the presence
of bacteria, whose special function is the assimilation of free nitrogen obtained in the air
found in the interstices; that is, the air spaces between the particles of soil. This they
store up in the nodules for the use of the clover plants and also the crops that shall follow them.

The nodules in clover plants vary in size, from a pin head to that of a pea, and they are frequently
present in large numbers. Bacteria are present within them in countless myriads. They gain
an entrance into the plant through the root hairs. The exact way in which benefit thus comes
to the clover plants is not fully understood, but it is now quite generally conceded that the
nitrogen taken in by these minute forms of life is converted into soluble compounds, which
are stored in the tissues of the roots, stems and leaves of the plants, thus furnishing an
explanation to the increased vigor. It cannot be definitely ascertained at present, if, indeed,
ever, what proportion of the nitrogen in clover is taken from the air and from the soil, respectively,
since it will vary with conditions, but when these are normal, it is almost certain that by
far the larger proportion comes from the air. But it has been noticed that when soil is freely
supplied with nitrogen, as in liberal applications of farmyard manure, the plants do not form
nodules so freely as when nitrogen is less plentiful in the soil. The inference would, therefore,
seem to be correct, that when plants are well supplied with nitrogen in the soil they are less
diligent, so to speak, in gathering it from the air. In other words, clover plants will take
more nitrogen from the air when the soil is more or less nitrogen hungry than when nitrogen
abounds in the soil. And yet the plants should be able to get some nitrogen from the soil in
addition to what the seed furnishes to give them a vigorous start.

This power to form tubercles, and thus to store up nitrogen, is by no means confined to clovers.
It is possessed by all legumes, as peas, beans and vetches. It is claimed that some of these,
as soy beans, cow peas and velvet beans, have even greater power to gather nitrogen from the
air and store it in the soil than clover, since the nodules formed on the roots of these are
frequently larger. In some instances, on the roots of the velvet bean they grow in clusters
as large as an ordinary potato. With reference to all these leguminous plants it has been demonstrated
that under proper conditions good crops may be grown and removed from the soil and leave it
much richer in nitrogen than when the seed was sown. It is thus possible by sowing these crops
at suitable intervals to keep the soil sufficiently supplied with nitrogen to grow good crops
other than legumes, adapted to the locality, without the necessity for purchasing the nitrogen
of commerce in any of its forms. They may be made to more than maintain the supply of nitrogen,
notwithstanding the constant loss of the same by leeching down into the subsoil in the form
of nitrates, and through the more or less constant escape of the same into the air in the form
of ammonia, during those portions of the year when the ground is not frozen.

They will do this in addition to the food supplies which they furnish, hence they may be made
to supply this most important element of fertility, and by far the most costly when purchased
in the market, virtually without cost. The favorable influences which these plants thus exert
upon crop production is invaluable to the farmer. They make it possible for him to be almost
entirely independent of the nitrogen of commerce, which, at the rate of consumption during
recent years, will soon be so far reduced as to be a comparatively insignificant factor in
its relation to crop production. It is possible, however, and not altogether improbable, that
by the aid of electricity a manufactured nitrate of soda or of potash may be put upon the market
at a price which will put it within reach of the farmer. The power of legumes to increase the
nitrogen content in the soil should allay apprehension with reference to the possible exhaustion
of the world's supply of nitrogen, notwithstanding the enormous waste of the same in various ways.

The more common sources of loss in nitrogen are, first, through the leeching of nitrates into
the drainage water; second, through oxidation; third, through the use of explosives in war;
and fourth, through the waste of the sewerage of cities. When plant and animal products are
changed into soluble nitrates, they are usually soon lost to the soil, unless taken up by the
roots of plants. When vegetable matter on or near the surface of the ground is broken down
and decomposed, in the process of oxidation, there is frequently much loss of nitrogen, as
in the rapid decomposition of farmyard manure in the absence of some material, as land plaster,
to arrest and hold the escaping ammonia. Through explosives used in war there is an enormous
vegetable loss of nitrogen, as nitrate salts, which should rather be used to preserve and sustain
life than to destroy it. The waste of nitrogen through the loss of sewerage is enormous, nor
does there seem to be any practicable way of saving the bulk of it.

In many soils the germs which produce nodules are present when clovers are first grown on them.
But where they are not present, the clover plants have no more power to gather nitrogen than
wheat or other non-leguminous crops. But since in other soils they are almost entirely absent,
how shall they be introduced? The process of introducing them is generally referred to as a
process of inoculation, and soils when treated successfully are said to be inoculated.

Three methods have been adopted. By the first, as previously indicated, the grower perseveres
in sowing clover at short intervals in the rotation. He may also add farmyard manure occasionally,
and thus, through the inherent power of multiplication in the bacteria, they increase sufficiently
to enable the land to grow good crops. By the second method, inoculating is effected through
soil which is possessed of the requisite bacteria; and by the third, it is effected through
the aid of a prepared product named nitragin.

When fields are to be inoculated by using soil it is obtained from areas which have grown clovers
successfully quite recently, and which are, therefore, likely to be well filled with the desired
bacteria. In some instances the seed is mixed with the soil and these are sown together. To
thus mix the seed with the soil and then sow both together broadcast or with a seed drill is
usually effective, and it is practicable when minimum quantities of soil well laden with germs
are used. In other instances the soil containing germs is scattered broadcast before or soon
after the seed is sown. Considerable quantities of earth must needs be applied by this method.

It should be remembered that each class of legumes has its own proper bacteria. Because of
this, inoculation can only, or at least chiefly, be effected through the use of soils on which
that particular class of legumes have grown, or which are possessed of bacteria proper to that
particular species. In other words, bacteria necessary to the growth of vetches will not answer
for the growth of clovers, and vice versa. Nor will the bacteria requisite to grow medium red
clover answer for growing alfalfa. In other words, the bacteria proper to the growth of one
member of even a family of plants will not always answer for the growth of another member of
the same. But in some instances it is thought that it will answer. The study of this phase
of the question has not yet progressed far enough to reflect as much light upon it as could
be desired. It is certainly known, however, that alfalfa will grow on soils that grow burr
clover (Medicago maculata) and sweet clover (Melilotus alba), hence the inference that soil
from fields of either will inoculate for alfalfa.

Nitragin is the name given by certain German investigators to a commercial product put upon
the market, which claims to be a pure culture of the root tubercle organism. These cultures
were sold in the liquid form, and it was customary when using them to treat the seed with them
before it was planted. Their use has been largely abandoned, because of the few successes which
followed their use compared with the many failures. But it is now believed that these cultures
can be prepared and used so as to be generally effective and without excessive cost to the grower.

In preparing cultures it has been found that by gradually reducing the amount of nitrogen in
the culture of media, it is possible to increase the nitrogen fixing power in these germs from
five to ten times as much as usually occurs in nature. It is now known that the bacteria thus
grown upon nitrogen free media retain high activity if carefully dried and then revived in
liquid media at the end of the varying lengths of time. Some absorbent is used to soak up the
tubercle-forming organisms. The cultures are then allowed to dry, and when in that condition
they can be safely sent to any part of the country without losing their efficacy. It is necessary
to revive the dry germs by immersing them in water. By adding certain nutrient salts the bacteria
are greatly increased if allowed to stand for a limited time--as short, in some instances,
as 24 hours. The culture thus sent out in a dry form, and no larger than a yeast cake, may
thus be made to furnish bacteria sufficient to inoculate not less than an acre of land. It
is stated that the amount of inoculating material thus obtained is only limited by the quantity
of the nutrient water solution used in increasing the germs, so that the cost of inoculating
land by this process is not large. The culture may be applied by simply soaking the seed in
it, by spraying the soil, or by first mixing the culture into earth, spreading it over the
field and then harrowing it. Inoculations thus tried under the supervision of the United States
Department of Agriculture have proved quite successful.

Where any legume is extensively grown surrounding soils come to be inoculated through the agency
of winds and water. The increase brought to the yield of plants on various soils runs all the
way from a slight gain to 1000-fold. And when soil is once inoculated it remains so for a long
time, even though the proper legume should not be grown again on the same soil.

The amount of nitrogen that may thus be brought to many soils by growing clover and other legumes
upon them is only hedged in practically by the nature of the rotation fixed upon. An acre of
clover when matured will sometimes add 200 to 300 pounds of nitrogen to the soil under favorable
conditions. Where the soil contains the requisite bacteria, the young plants begin to form
tubercles when but a few weeks old, and continue to do so while the plant is active until mature.
That the plants use much of the nitrogen while growing would seem to be clear, from the fact
that toward the close of the growing season the tubercles become more or less broken down and
shrunken.

CHAPTER III

MEDIUM RED CLOVER

Medium Red Clover (Trifolium pratense) is also known by the names Common Red Clover, Broad-Leaved
Clover and Meadow Trefoil. The term medium has doubtless come to be applied to it because the
plants are in size intermediate between the Mammoth variety (Trifolium magnum) and the smaller
varieties, as the Alsike (Trifolium hybridum) and the small white (Trifolium repens). But by
no designation is it so frequently referred to as that of Red Clover.

This plant is spreading and upright in its habit of growth. Several branches rise up from the
crown of each plant, and these in turn frequently become branched more or less in their upward
growth. The heads which produce the flowers are nearly globular in shape, inclining to ovate,
and average about one inch in diameter. Each plant contains several heads, and frequently a
large number when the growth is not too crowded. When in full flower these are of a beautiful
purple crimson, hence, a field of luxuriant red clover is beautiful to look upon. The stems
of the plants are slightly hairy, and ordinarily they stand at least fairly erect and reach
the height of about one foot or more; but when the growth is rank, they will grow much higher,
even as high as 4 feet in some instances, but when they grow much higher than the average given,
the crop usually lodges. The leaves are numerous, and many of them have very frequently, if
not, indeed, always, a whitish mark in the center, resembling a horseshoe. The tap roots go
down deeply into the soil. Usually they penetrate the same to about 2 feet, but in some instances,
as when subsoils are open and well stored with accessible food, they go down to the depth of
5 or 6 feet. The tap roots are numerously branched, and the branches extend in all directions.
When they are short, as they must needs be in very stiff subsoils and on thin land underlaid
with hard soil, the branches become about as large as the tap roots. It has been computed that
the weight of the roots in the soil is about equal to the weight of the stem and leaves.

Medium red clover is ordinarily biennial in its habit of growth, but under some conditions
it is perennial. Usually in much of the Mississippi basin it is biennial, especially on prairie
soils. On the clay loam soils of Ontario, Ohio, Michigan, Wisconsin, Indiana and some other
States, it is essentially biennial, but many of the plants will survive for a longer period.
In the mountain valleys in the Northwestern States, and on the Pacific slope west of the Cascade
Mountains, it is perennial. Medium red clover meadows in these have been cut for several successive
years without re-seeding the crop. The duration of this plant is also more or less influenced
by pasturing as compared with cutting for seed. Grazing the plants has the effect of prolonging
the period of their growth, while maturing seed from them has the opposite effect.

Medium red clover is characterized by a rapid growth. Seed sown in the spring has in certain
climates produced a crop of hay in 120 days from the date of sowing. It is also most persistent
in its growth from spring until fall when sufficient moisture is present. In this property
it far outranks any of the other varieties of clover. It comes into bloom in the South during
the latter half of May and in the North during the month of June, early or later, according
to location, and in about sixty days from the time that it is cut for hay. Ordinarily, a second
cutting of hay may be taken from it and still later some pasture.

It furnishes excellent pasture, soiling food and hay for nearly all classes of live stock.
While it is much relished by the stock, it is probably not exceeded in its capacity for quick
and prolonged growth throughout the growing season by any pasture plant, except alfalfa. For
a similar reason it stands high as a soiling food. No other variety of clover grown in America
will furnish as much of either pasture or soiling food. For animals producing milk and for
young animals, the pasture is particularly excellent. It is also the standard pasture for swine
where it can be grown, and where alfalfa is not a staple crop. When the hay is well cured,
it makes a ration in even balance for cattle and sheep, and for horses it is equally good.
The prejudice which exists in some quarters against feeding it to horses has arisen, in part,
at least, from feeding it when improperly harvested, when over-ripe, when damaged by rain,
or by overcuring in the sun, or when it may have been stored so green as to induce molding.
It may also be fed with much advantage to brood sows and other swine in winter.

As a soil improver, medium red clover is probably without a rival, unless it be in mammoth
clover, and in one respect it exceeds the mammoth variety; that is, in the more prolonged season,
during which it may be plowed under as a green manure. Its quick growth peculiarly adapts it
to soil enrichment. For this reason, it is more sown than any of the other varieties in the
spring of the year, along with the small cereal grains to be plowed under in the late autumn
or in the following spring, after the clover has made a vigorous start, since it produces two
crops in one season, the first crop may be harvested and the second plowed under after having
made a full growth. This can be said of no other variety of clover. More enrichment is also
obtained from the falling of the leaves when two crops are grown than from the other varieties.

The influence of this plant on weed destruction when grown for hay is greater than with the
other varieties of clover. This is owing in part to the shade resulting from its rapid growth
and in part to the two cuttings which are usually made of the crop. These two cuttings prevent
the maturing of the seeds in nearly all annual weeds, and to a very great extent in all classes
of biennials. The power of this crop to smother out perennials is also considerable, and when
this is linked with the weakening caused by the two cuttings, it sometimes proves effective
in completely eradicating for the time being this class of weeds.

=Distribution.=--Medium red clover is thought to be native to Europe. It was probably introduced
into England some time early in the seventeenth century. That it was attracting attention about
the middle of the century or a little later, is rendered probable by the fact that it is discussed
at considerable length in the third edition of Blyth's "Improver Improved," published in 1662,
while it is not mentioned in the first edition, published in 1650. It was doubtless introduced
into the United States by the early colonists and at sundry times.

Medium red clover will grow in good form only in the temperate zone, since it cannot stand
excessive heat or excessive cold. The northerly limit of its successful growth in North America
is somewhere about 50° north latitude on the wind-swept prairies, but on suitable soils, and
protected somewhat by trees and winter snows, it will probably grow 10 degrees further to the
north. In British Columbia, on the Pacific slope, it will probably grow as far north as Alaska.
But on prairies eastward from the Rocky Mountains, it has not been grown with much success
much further north than 48°, unless under the eastern shadow of the Rocky Mountains. Low temperatures
in winter, where there is only a moderate covering of snow, are far less fatal to clover plants
than exposure to the sweep of the cold winds. Even where the thermometer is not so low as in
the areas just referred to, such winds are particularly damaging to the plants when they blow
fiercely just after a thaw which has removed a previous covering of snow. In some instances,
one cold wave under the conditions named has proved fatal to promising crops of clover over
extended areas.

In a general way, the southerly limit of vigorous and reliable growth may be put at about 37°.
But in some localities good crops may be grown further South, especially in some parts of Tennessee.
Nor would it be correct to say that medium red clover grows at its best in many localities
much south of 38°. On the plateaus it can be grown further South, where the soil is suitable.

This plant flourishes best in a moist climate. In fact, the abundance and continuance of the
growth for the season are largely dependent on the amount of the precipitation, and on the
distribution of the same throughout the season. In climates in which it is usual for a long
spell of dry weather to occur in mid-summer, the plants will not make rapid growth after the
first cutting of the season; but under conditions the opposite, they will grow continuously
from spring until fall. Continuous growth may be secured through all the season on irrigated
land. Although the plants root deeply, they will succumb under drought beyond a certain degree,
and in some soils the end comes much more quickly than on others; on porous and sandy soils,
it comes much sooner than on clays. On the latter, drought must be excessive to destroy clover
plants that have been well rooted. White clover can withstand much heat when supplied with
moisture. Moderate temperatures are much more favorable to its growth.

Spring weather, characterized by prolonged periods of alternate freezing and thawing, is disastrous
to the plants on dry soils, possessed of an excess of moisture, when not covered with snow.
They are gradually drawn up out of the soil and left to die on the surface. In some instances,
the destruction of an otherwise fine stand is complete. In other instances, it is partial,
and when it is, a heavy roller run over the land is helpful in firming the soil around the
roots that have been thus disturbed.

Medium red clover can be grown with some success in certain parts of almost every State in
the Union. But in paying crops it is not much grown south of parallel 37°. With irrigation
it grows most vigorously in the mountain valleys between the Rocky and Cascade mountains, and
between about 37° and 50° north latitude. In these valleys its habit of growth is perennial.
Without irrigation, the highest adaptation, all things considered, is found in Washington and
Oregon, west of the Cascades, except where shallow soils lying on gravels exist. East of the
mountains, the best crops are in the States of Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky, Illinois,
Missouri, Iowa, Wisconsin and Minnesota. The soils of Northern Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan,
that have produced hardwood timber, have unusually high adaptation to the growth of this plant,
and as the snow usually covers the ground in these areas in winter, the crop may be relied
upon with much certainty. But on the sandy soils, which more or less abound in these areas,
it does not succeed so well. It has not yet proved a marked success in Western Minnesota or
in the Dakotas, owing in part probably to the lack of the proper bacteria in the soil. Its
growth in these localities, however, is extending from year to year. Indiana and Ohio are great
clover States, and the same is true of much of Illinois and Iowa; but southward in these States
there is some hazard to the young plants from drought and heat in summer, and to an occasional
frost in winter when the ground is bare.

East of the States named, it would probably be correct to say that the highest adaptation is
found in New York and Pennsylvania, particularly the former, in many parts of which excellent
crops are grown. In various parts of the New England States good crops may also be grown. Much
of the soil in these is not sufficiently fertile to grow clover as it can be grown in the more
Central States. The same is true of the States of Delaware, Maryland and Eastern Virginia,
east of the Rocky Mountains, south from the Canadian boundary and west from Minnesota, Iowa
and Missouri, but little success has heretofore attended the efforts to grow medium red clover.
This statement does not apply equally to Eastern Nebraska and Kansas. Usually the climate is
not moist enough in summer, the sweep of the cold winds is too great in winter, the snowfall
is usually insufficient to protect the plants, and it may be also that the requisite bacteria
is lacking in the soil. Sometime, however, these adverse conditions may in part be overcome
by man's resourcefulness. In parts of States that lie south of the 37th parallel, it may be
found profitable to grow crops of medium red clover; but in these, other legumes, as crimson
clover, cow peas and soy beans, will probably furnish food more reliably and more cheaply.

