In addition to these major operations, air forces were used in the expeditions on the Indian
frontier, against Darfur and in the vicinity of Aden. Five squadrons were sent to Italy after
the Italian retreat from the Isonzo and took a prominent part in the final Austrian defeat;
a Royal Air Force contingent was sent to Russia to operate from Archangel; and material assistance
was given to France and the other Allies, but especially to the United States in the training
and equipment of her air forces.

At the beginning of 1918 the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Force were amalgamated
and the Royal Air Force came into existence, and during the year achieved a supremacy more
complete than that at any time since the Somme.

The following description gives a vivid idea of air activity at the front in 1918:--

    "All day long there were 'dog fights' waged at heights up to three
    or four miles above the shell-torn battlefields of France, whilst
    the low-flying aeroplanes were attacking suitable targets from the
    height of a few dozen feet. Passing backwards and forwards went the
    reconnaissance machines and the bombers, and along the whole front
    observers were sending out by wireless to the artillery the point of
    impact of their shells. Such was the picture of the air on any fine
    day at the time."

1918, however, saw not only the accumulative effect of the tactical co-operation of aircraft
with our armies in the field, but also the formation of the Independent Air Force and the carrying
out of the strategic air offensive against centres of war industry in the interior of Germany.

A vast organization was also required at Home to meet the rapid expansion of units in the Field
and to supply reinforcements. Thus at the Armistice there were 199 training squadrons, the
pupils under instruction including cadets numbered 30,000, and during the war some 22,000 graduated
as efficient for active service. At the beginning of the war pilots were sent overseas with
only 11 hours' flying experience. This was much too little and there is no doubt that increased
training would have ensured fewer casualties. Fortunately, however, the length of training
was increased in the latter part of the war and a remarkable advance in training was made possible
by the use of an entirely new and extraordinarily efficient system of instruction evolved by
Smith-Barry.

The war demonstrated the beginnings of what air power meant, though in November, 1918, it was
still in its infancy. Before many years the ability to make war successfully, or even at all,
will depend upon air power.

Let us now briefly survey the development of the several duties of aircraft, the evolution
of machines and progress in tactics, strategy and the organization of our Air Forces during
the war.

I had recognized the great difficulty of mobilizing with the clockwork precision of older units
and, in the belief that war was coming, had ordered a provisional mobilization of the Corps
some days before it was actually declared. Thanks to this step and to the work done at our
Concentration Camp at Netheravon in June, 1914, the greater part of the Royal Flying Corps
was enabled to concentrate without hitch at our aerodrome at Dover, and the machines flew via
Calais to Amiens on August 13th.

CO-OPERATION WITH THE ARMY.

Reconnaissance.

In the event of France and England declaring war concurrently against Germany, the strategic
plan agreed to by the British and French general staffs before the war had been that the British
Expeditionary Force should be moved to the Le Cateau, Maubeuge, Mons, area and take up a line
on the left flank of the French Army near Mons. But England had withheld her declaration until
three days after the French, and on landing in France the first words I heard said by a Frenchman
were: "Oui, l'armée anglaise arrive mais on a manqué le premier plan." It was not until after
the arrival of G.H.Q. at Amiens on August 14th that, although late, it was decided that the
advanced line should be taken up. The Royal Flying Corps moved by air and road to an existing
aerodrome outside the antique defences of Maubeuge 12 miles from Mons on the 16th. On the 19th
the first reconnaissance was carried out, and the entire country over which the German armies
were advancing, as far as Brussels and Louvain, was kept under observation. One of the best
reconnaissances ever made was that of August 21st, which discovered the 2nd German Corps moving
from Brussels through Ninhove and Grammont.

From Maubeuge we had to retire on the 24th to Le Cateau, on the 25th to St. Quentin, on the
26th to La Fère, on the 28th to Compiègne, on the 30th to Senlis, on the 31st to Juilly, on
September 2nd to Serris, on the 3rd to Touquin, on the 4th to Melun, where we were thankful
at last to get orders again to advance on the 7th to Touquin, and on the 9th to Coulommiers,
reaching Fère-en-Tardennois on the 12th for the Battle of the Aisne.

Of the many recollections of the early days one which will remain longest in my mind is the
terrible sadness of the flocks of refugees, of the poor people we left behind. And the glare
of villages burning by the hand of the Boche. It was indeed war. The Royal Flying Corps was
an important factor in helping the British Expeditionary Force to escape von Kluck's nearly
successful efforts to secure another and a British Sedan.

The reconnaissance resulting in the most valuable information of all, and, I think, during
the whole of the war, was that of September 3rd, during the critical operations on the Marne,
which formed one of the decisive battles in the world's history, when von Kluck's turning movement
to the south-east against the French left was accurately reported and Marshal Joffre was enabled
to make his dispositions accordingly. "The precision, exactitude and regularity of the news
brought in," he said in a message to the British Commander-in-Chief, "are evidence of the perfect
training of pilots and observers." The reports of the German air service, on the other hand,
would appear from von Kluck's movements to have been of no assistance to him.

The system adopted from the first was for the pilot or observer, or both, immediately on their
return to bring their report to R.F.C. Headquarters, whence the Commander, or his staff officer,
accompanied them to G.H.Q., where the map was filled in in accordance with the report. G.H.Q.
could then ask questions and obtain any further information which the observer could give,
while R.F.C. Headquarters could ascertain what further reports were most urgently required.
The form of the reports, which were ready printed, had been most carefully thought out at R.F.C.
Headquarters in peace and experimented with at the Concentration Camp.

The maps thus compiled at G.H.Q. from air reconnaissance reports between August 31st and September
3rd were of vital interest, though it was sometimes very difficult to get the information put
on the map for prompt consideration. For instance, at Dammartin on the evening of September
1st, when it was thought that German cavalry were within a few miles, G.H.Q. made a very hurried
departure, and I was unable to find anyone to whom to give very important reports.

It was at the Battle of the Marne that machines were for the first time allotted to Army Corps
for tactical work, while long-distance reconnaissance was carried out by other machines operating
from Headquarters. Later on, this system was established as a part of our permanent organization,
squadrons being allotted to, and reporting direct to, Corps for tactical reconnaissance, artillery
co-operation and contact patrols, and to Armies for longer-distance reconnaissance and fighting.

The last phase of the war of movement was the race for the Channel Ports and it devolved upon
aircraft to observe the enemy's movements from his centre and left flank to meet the Allied
movement to the coast, to observe the movements of the four newly-formed corps which came into
action at Ypres and to maintain liaison with the Belgian and British forces at Antwerp and
Ostend. Information was very difficult to obtain and on one occasion I flew from the Aisne
to Antwerp, under Sir John French's instructions, in order as far as possible to clear up the
general situation when our G.H.Q. was in doubt as to whether Antwerp was completely surrounded
or not. It was an interesting piece of work. There was a light drizzle, and the forest of Compiègne
had to be flown over at about 200 feet. The B.E. could not make the distance without refilling,
and although only a short halt was made at Amiens for the purpose, it was too late to fly direct
to Antwerp. Instead, a landing was made in a very sticky field under light plough, which was
selected from the air about 4 miles north of Bruges, to which town I rode on a borrowed bicycle.
At Bruges there was great consternation and uncertainty as to the position at Antwerp, but
the Commander kindly placed a large open car and its very energetic driver at my disposal to
try and get through. After many difficulties we managed to find our way into Antwerp by about
midnight, and I was received by the Belgian Commander. He explained that though the Germans
had broken through the South-Eastern sector and his troops were very hard pressed (and pointing
repeatedly to a piece of an 18-inch German shell in the corner of the room, he said, "Mais
qu'est-ce qu'on peut faire avec ces choses-là!"), he hoped to be able to hold out for a time.
After giving him General French's message and obtaining as much information as possible, I
managed to get clear of Antwerp, reaching Bruges again at 3.15 a.m. At 4 a.m. we set out and
found a very wet machine in a wetter field and after considerable difficulty and flying through
the top of the surrounding hedge, struggled into the upper air on the way back to Headquarters
at Fère-en-Tardennois.

During the Battles of the Aisne and of Ypres strategical reconnaissance was carried out by
the few machines available at Headquarters. Shephard, the best reconnaissance officer I have
ever known, who was killed later, used to fly his B.E.2 without observer over the greater part
of Belgium two or three times a week and always brought in a long, closely packed, and extraordinarily
valuable report. Tactical reconnaissance to a depth of 15 to 20 miles was done by units attached
to Corps.

After the Battle of the Aisne, which was the turning point in the evolution from the war of
movement to trench warfare, pure reconnaissance, though still the basis of air work, tended
to become a matter of routine, while many new and specialized forms of it--such as air photography
and artillery spotting by wireless--were developed.

Photography.

