[73] Those that religiously name the name of Christ, and do not depart from iniquity, cause
the perishing of many. A professor that hath not forsaken his iniquity is like one that comes
out of a pest-house to his home, with all his plague-sores running. He hath the breath of a
dragon, and poisons the air round about him. This is the man that slays his children, his kinsmen,
his friends, and himself. O! the millstone that God will shortly hang about your necks, when
you must be drowned in the sea and deluge of God's wrath-(Bunyan's Holy Life, vol. 2, p. 530).

[74] How beautiful must that church be where Watchful is the porter; where Discretion admits
the members; where Prudence takes the oversight; where Piety conducts the worship; and where
Charity endears the members one to another! They partake of the Lord's Supper, a feast of fat
things, with wine well refined-(J.B.).

[75] Ah! theirs was converse such as it behooves Man to maintain, and such as God approves--Christ
and His character their only scope, Their subject, and their object, and their hope. O days
of Heaven, and nights of equal praise! Serene and peaceful as those heavenly days When souls
drawn upwards in communion sweet, Enjoy the stillness of some close retreat, Discourse, as
if releas'd and safe at home, Of dangers past, and wonders yet to come-(Cowper).

[76] When Christiana and her party arrived at this house Beautiful, she requested that they
might repose in the same chamber, called Peace, which was granted. The author, in his marginal
note, explains the nature of this resting-place by the words, "Christ's bosom is for all pilgrims"-(ED).

[77] How suddenly that straight and glittering shaft Shot 'thwart the earth! In crown of living
fire Up comes the day! As if they, conscious, quaff'd The sunny flood, hill, forest, city,
spire, Laugh in the wakening light. Go, vain Desire! The dusky lights have gone; go thou thy
way! And pining Discontent, like them expire! Be called my chamber Peace, when ends the day,
And let me, with the dawn, like Pilgrim, sing and pray. Great is the Lord our God, And let
His praise be great: He makes His churches His abode, His most delightful seat-(Dr. Watts).

[78] Should you see a man that did not go from door to door, but he must be clad in a coat
of mail, and have a helmet of brass upon his head, and for his life-guard not so few as a thousand
men to wait on him, would you not say, Surely this man has store of enemies at hand? If Solomon
used to have about his bed no less than threescore of the most valiant of Israel, holding swords,
and being expert in war, what guard and safeguard doth God's people need, who are, night and
day, roared on by the unmerciful fallen angels? I'm here on the make, and i think you'pope of same.
But i wouldn't be in your place if the people in the village get to know that you've suspect a finger
in looting their god.

"" why?
"" oh, you'll die instead painfully, that's all. Not much. "It's a
bit above your weight." Kettle'element face grew nasty. "is not it?"
he said.

"think i'm to back of a tribe of grim, stinking,
homo-eating niggers? Better yield the knowledge up, Captain, and
let me take over the charter for you. Does he take the shield of faith, and helmet of salvation? Christ
is that shield, and all our salvation. Does he take the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word
of God? Christ is the Word of God. Thus he puts on the Lord Jesus Christ; by his Spirit fights
the fight of faith; and, in spite of men, of devils, and of his own evil heart, lays hold of
eternal life. Thus Christ is all in all-(J. B.).

[80] The church in the wilderness, even her porch, is full of pillars-apostles, prophets, and
martyrs of Jesus. There are hung up also the shields that the old warriors used, and on the
walls are painted the brave achievements they have done. There, also, are such encouragements
that one would think that none who came thither would ever attempt to go back. Yet some forsake
the place-(Bunyan's House of Lebanon).

[81] The Delectable Mountains, as seen at a distance, represent those distinct views of the
privileges and consolations, attainable in this life, with which believers are sometimes favoured.
This is the pre-eminent advantage of Christian communion, and can only be enjoyed at some special
seasons, when the Sun of Righteousness shines upon the soul-(Scott).

[82] Thus it is, after a pilgrim has been favoured with any special and peculiar blessings,
there is danger of his being puffed up by them, and exalted on account of them; so was even
holy Paul; therefore, the messenger of Satan was permitted to buffet him (2 Cor. 3:7)-(Mason).
In the Second Part, Great-heart attributed the sore combat with Apollyon to have arisen from
"the fruit of those slips that he got in going down the hill." Great enjoyments need the most
prayerful watchfulness in going down from them, lest those three villains cause us to slip.
Christian's heavenly enjoyment in the communion of saints was followed by his humbling adventures
in the valley-a needful proof of Divine love to his soul. "Whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth"-(ED).
"A broken heart, O God, Thou wilt not despise." Has He given it to thee, my reader? Then He
has given thee a cabinet to hold His grace in. True, it is painful now, it is sorrowful, it
bleeds, it sighs, it sobs, well, very well; all this is because He has a mind that thou mayest
rejoice in Heaven-(Bunyan's Acceptable Sacrifice).

[83] "No armour for his back"; to desist is inevitable ruin. He sees no safety except in facing
his enemy. Fear itself creates additional courage, and induces him to stand his ground-(Drayton).

[84] The description of Apollyon is terrible. This dreadful imagery is collected from various
parts of Scripture, where the attributes of the most terrible animals are given him; the attributes
of leviathan, the dragon, the lion, and the bear; to denote his strength, his pride, his rage,
his courage, and his cruelty-(Andronicus).

[85] In our days, when emigration is so encouraged by the state, it may be difficult for some
youthful readers to understand this argument of Apollyon's. In Bunyan's time, every subject
was deemed to be Crown property, and no one dared depart the realm without a license. Thus,
when Cromwell and his heroes had hired ships, and were ready to start for America, Charles
II providentially detained them, to work out the great Revolution-(ED).

[86] Promises or vows, whether made by us or by others on our behalf, before we possessed powers
of reason or reflection, cannot be binding. The confirmation or rejection of all vows made
by or for us in our nonage, should, on arriving at years of discretion, be our deliberate choice,
for we must recollect that no personal dedication can be acceptable to God unless it is the
result of solemn inquiry-(ED).

[87] Mark the subtlety of this gradation in temptation. The profits of the world and pleasures
of sin are held out as allurements. The apostasy of others suggested. The difficulties, dangers,
and sufferings of the Lord's people, are contrasted with the prosperity of sinners. The recollections
of our sins and backslidings, under a profession of religion. The supposition that all our
profession is founded in pride and vain-glory. All backed by our own consciences; as if Apollyon
straddled quite across the way, and stopped us from going on-(Andronicus).

[88] This dialogue is given, in different words, in the Jerusalem Sinner Saved, Volume 1, pages
79, 80. Satan is loath to part with a great sinner. What, my true servant, quoth he, my old
servant, wilt thou forsake me now? Having so often sold thyself to me to work wickedness, wilt
thou forsake me now? Thou horrible wretch, dost not know that thou hast sinned thyself beyond
the reach of grace, and dost thou think to find mercy now? Art not thou a murderer, a thief,
a harlot, a witch, a sinner of the greatest size, and dost thou look for mercy now? Dost thou
think that Christ will foul His fingers with thee? It is enough to make angels blush, saith
Satan, to see so vile a one knock at Heaven's gates for mercy, and wilt thou be so abominably
bold to do it? Thus Satan dealt with me, says the great sinner, when at first I came to Jesus
Christ. And what did you reply? saith the tempted. Why, I granted the whole charge to be true,
says the other. And what, did you despair, or how? No, saith he, I said, I am Magdalene, I
am Zaccheus, I am the thief, I am the harlot, I am the publican, I am the prodigal, and one
of Christ's murderers-yea, worse than any of these; and yet God was so far off from rejecting
of me, as I found afterwards, that there was music and dancing in His house for me, and for
joy that I was come home unto Him. When Satan charged Luther with a long list of crimes, he
replied, This is all true; but write another line at the bottom, "The blood of Jesus Christ
His Son cleanseth us from all sin"-(ED).

[89] The devil is that great and dogged leviathan, that "spreadeth sharp pointed things upon
the mire" (Job 40:30). For be the spreading nature of our corruptions never so broad, he will
find sharp pointed things enough to stick in the mire of them for our affliction; they are
called fiery darts, and he has abundance of them with which he can and will sorely prick and
wound our spirits-(Bunyan on Christ's Love, vol. 2, p. 65).

[90] When infidel thoughts prevail, so that doubts of the truth of Scripture take hold of the
mind, the sword of the Spirit flies out of the hand. Unarmed before a ferocious enemy, it was
an awful moment; but God revives his faith in the Divine Word, he recovers his sword, and gives
his enemy a deadly plunge-I shall rise-(Drayton).

[91] "For a season," is only found in the first edition. These words may have been omitted,
in Bunyan's subsequent editions, by a typographical error, or have been struck out by him.
My impression is, that they were left out by the printer in error; because, in the Second Part,
when the pilgrims pass the spot and talk of the battle, we are told that "when Apollyon was
beat, he made his retreat to the next valley." And there poor Christian was awfully beset with
him again-(ED).

[92] You will find, from the perusal of Bunyan's own spiritual life, that he has here brought
together, in the assault of Apollyon upon Christian, many of the most grievous temptations
with which his own soul was beset, as also, in Christian's answers against them, the very method
of defence which he himself was taught by Divine grace in the midst of the conflict. It is
here condensed into a narrow and vivid scene, but it extended over years of Bunyan's life;
and the wisdom that is in it, and the points of experience illustrated, were the fruit of many
months of painfulness, danger, and desperate struggle with the adversary, which he had to go
through-(Cheever).

[93] The literal history of this terrific conflict may be found in Bunyan's experience recorded
in Grace Abounding, (Nos. 131-173), when he recovered his sword, and put his enemy to flight.
He describes his agonies in the combat as if he were being racked upon the wheel, and states
that it lasted for about a year. Floods of blasphemies were poured in upon him, but he was
saved from utter despair, because they were loathsome to him. Dr. Cheever eloquently says,
"What made the fight a thousand times worse for poor Christian was, that many of these hellish
darts were tipped, by Apollyon's malignant ingenuity, with sentences from Scripture"; so that
Christian thought the Bible was against him. One of these fiery darts penetrated his soul with
the awful words, "no place for repentance"; and another with, "hath never forgiveness." The
recovery of his sword was by a heavenly suggestion that He BEGIN did not "refuse him that speaketh";
new vigour was communicated. "When I fall, I SHALL arise," was a home-thrust at Satan; who
left him, richly to enjoy the consolations of the Gospel after this dreadful battle-(ED).

[94] By "leaves" here (Rev. 22: 2), we are to understand the blessed and precious promises,
consolations, and encouragements, that, by virtue of Christ, we find everywhere growing on
the new covenant, which will be handed freely to the wounded conscience that is tossed on the
reckless waves of doubt and unbelief. Christ's leaves are better than Adam's aprons. He sent
His Word, and healed them-(Bunyan's Holy City).

[95] However terrible these conflicts are, they are what every Christian pilgrim has to encounter
that is determined to win Heaven. Sin and death, reprobates and demons, are against him. The
Almighty, all good angels and men, are for him. Eternal life is the reward. Be not discouraged,
young Christian! "If God be for us, who can be against us?" We shall come off more than conquerors,
through him that hath loved us. Equal to our day so shall be our strength. The enemies had
a special check from our Lord, while Mr. Fearing passed through. "Though death and hell obstruct
the way The meanest saint shall win the day"-(ED).

[96] "Desired Heaven," in some of Bunyan's editions-(ED).

[97] The ditch on the right hand is error in principle, into which the blind, as to spiritual
truth, fall. The ditch on the left hand means outward sin and wickedness, which many fall into.
Both are alike dangerous to pilgrims: but the Lord "will keep the feet of his saints" (1 Sam.
2:9)-(Mason). Dr. Dodd considers that by the deep ditch is intended "presumptuous hopes," and
the no less dangerous quag to be "despairing fears"-(ED).

[98] The sight of an immortal soul in peril of its eternal interests, beset with enemies, engaged
in a desperate conflict, with hell opening her mouth before, and fiends and temptations pressing
after, is a sublime and awful spectacle. Man cannot aid him; all his help is in God only-(Cheever).

[99] And as for the secrets of Satan, such as are suggestions to question the being of God,
the truth of His Word, and to be annoyed with devilish blasphemies, none are more acquainted
with these than the biggest sinners at their conversion; wherefore thus also they are prepared
to be helps in the church to relieve and comfort others-(Jerusalem Sinner Saved, vol. 1, p.
80). See also a very interesting debate upon this subject in Come and Welcome to Jesus Christ,
volume 1, page 250. O, no one knows the terrors of these days but myself-(Grace Abounding,
Nos. 100-102). Satan and his angels trouble his head with their stinking breath. How many strange,
hideous, and amazing blasphemies have some, that are coming to Christ, had injected upon their
spirits against Him-(Christ a Complete Saviour, vol. 1, p. 209). He brought me up also out
of a horrible pit; a pit of noise of devils, and of my heart answering them with distrust and
fear-(Saint's Knowledge of Christ's Love).

[100] The experience of other saints is very encouraging; for the soul finds that others have
gone before him in dreadful, dark, and dreary paths-(Mason).

[101] To walk in darkness, and not be distressed for it, argues stupidity of the soul. To have
the light of God's countenance shine upon us, and not to rejoice and be thankful for it, is
impossible-(Mason).

[102] I would not be too confident, but I apprehend that by this second part of the valley
we are taught that believers are not most in danger when under the deepest distress; that the
snares and devices of the enemy are so many and various, through the several stages of our
pilgrimage, as to baffle all description; and that all the emblems of these valleys could not
represent the thousandth part of them. When we acquire down to Leopoldville-- when we get down to
the post even-- "" oh, you can collar the blooming credit, "said
Kettle now," when we do acquire yellow even to a of your own headquarters.

I'm not looking for gratitude a from either bound or from the Congo belgian State. They don't
stabbed like Englishmen. "" you are not the lovable nation, "said Commandant
Congo spitefully." away, "said Kettle, clear his quick full face
distant up to either other," realize then and for all savvy i will
not have England abused, neither do i take the more of your lip for
myself.

I'm Captain of the little of this show anywhere, by your making,
and i intend to be respected as the, and hold another great captain'christ
ticket.

You'll call me'sir'when you speak, and you'll take orders hither
and carry them out fierce, or, by James! you'll find your fang rammed
down your park in two twinkles of a thrusting.

That that? "The man of the weaker nation lessen. There was the law and order indefinitely to
fall back upon. There was nothing but faze savagery and vastness. Any sandbar where their wrecked
launch lay was out in any little of a Balliot, there eight miles from such pharynx-like lands which
stretched civilly beyond the bank.

No handspike river astern of her glared like a mirror under the intolerable sunshine; came up
and swirled around her flanks in whole, marigold-smelling movement; and once joined up into
mirror form again till the eye ached in regarding it.

The sky above was desolate contemptuously of clouds; perhaps was
no help hither; and on a close sandbank, where now and there middle
bushes of powder smoke shoot up like a gauzy life, the horde of dead
blacks lusted to tear out his foliage.

In SACLANT Balliot's own heart hope was barbarous.
 There he encounters
the persecution of the state church. Act after act of Parliament had been passed-full of atrocious
penalties, imprisonments, transportation, and hanging-to deter poor pilgrims from the way to
Zion. "The way was full of snares, traps, gins, nets, pitfalls, and deep holes." Had the darkness
of mental anguish been added to these dangers, he must have perished. The butcheries of Jefferies
strewed the way with blood, bones, ashes, and mangled bodies of pilgrims. Pope reared his ugly
head, and growled out, "More of you must be burned." The desolating tyranny of the church was
curbed by the King's turning papist, which paved the way for the glorious Revolution of 1688.
It appears from the Grace Abounding, that to the time of Bunyan's imprisonment for preaching
the Gospel, he was involved frequently in deeply-distressing spiritual darkness; but, from
his entering the prison, be walked in the light of God's countenance to his dying day-(ED).

[107] We are now to be introduced to a new pilgrim, and Christian is no more to go on his way
alone. The sweet Christian communion depicted in this book forms one of the most delightful
features in it, and Faithful and Hopeful are both of them portraits that stand out in as firm
relief as that of Christian himself. Faithful is the Martyr Pilgrim, who goes in a chariot
of fire to Heaven, and leaves Christian alone; Hopeful springs, as it were, out of Faithful's
ashes, and supplies his place all along the remainder of the pilgrimage. The communion between
these loving Christians, their sympathy and share in each other's distresses, their mutual
counsels and encouragements, temptations and dangers, experience and discipline, their united
joys and sorrows, and their very passing of the river of death together, form the sweetest
of all examples of the true fellowship of saints, united to the same Saviour, made to drink
into the same Spirit, baptized with the same sufferings, partakers of the same consolations,
crowned with the same crown of life, entering together upon glory everlasting-(Cheever). The
author has displayed great skill in introducing a companion to his Pilgrim in this place. Thus
far the personal adventures of Christian had been of the most extraordinary kind, and sufficient
of themselves to exercise the reader's sympathies for him; but these feelings would have languished
from weariness, however intensely the sequel might have been wrought, had attention been claimed
for a solitary wanderer to the end of the journey. Here then the history, which had probably
reached its climax in the preceding scenes, revives, by taking a new form, and exciting a fresh
interest, rather doubled than divided, though two have thenceforward to share it instead of
one. Besides, the individual experience of one man, however varied, would not have been sufficient
to exemplify all the most useful lessons of the Gospel, unless the trials of many persons,
of different age, sex, and disposition, were interwoven. The instance at hand will illustrate
this point-(Montgomery).

[108] Ah, what a smile was that! How much sin was there in it, instead of humble spiritual
gratitude, and joy. Now see how he that exalteth himself shall be abased, and how surely, along
with spiritual pride, comes carelessness, false security, and a grievous fall-(Cheever). The
very person's hand we need to help us, whom we thought we had exceeded-(Mason). When a consciousness
of superiority to other Christians leads to vain glory, a fall will be the consequence; but
while it excites compassion, it also cements Christian friendship-(Ivimey).

[109] Mr. Anything became a brisk man in the broil; but both sides were against him, because
he was true to none. He had, for his malapertness, one of his legs broken, and he that did
it wished it had been his neck-(Holy War).

[110] "I trow," I believe or imagine (Imp. Dict.)-(ED).

[111] If the experience of Christian is an exhibition of Bunyan's own feelings, the temptations
of Madam Wanton are very properly laid in the way of Faithful, and not of Christian. She would
have had no chance with the man who admired the wisdom of God in making him shy of women, who
rarely carried it pleasantly towards a woman, and who abhorred the common salutation of women-(Grace
Abounding, No. 316)-ED.

[112] "All" is omitted from every edition by Bunyan, except the first; probably a typographical
error.

[113] An awful slavery! "None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the
paths of life" (Prov. 2:19)--(ED).

[114] That sinner who never had a threatening fiery visit from Moses, is yet asleep in his
sins, under the curse and wrath of the law of God-(C.C.V.G.).

[115] As the law giveth no strength, nor life to keep it, so it accepteth none of them that
are under it. Sin and Die, is forever its language. There is no middle way in the law. It hath
not ears to hear, nor heart to pity, its penitent ones--(Bunyan on Justification, vol. 1, p. 316).

[116] The delineation of this character is a masterly grouping together of the arguments used
by men of this world against religion, in ridicule and contempt of it. Faithful's account of
him, and of his arguments, is a piece of vigorous satire, full of truth and life-(Cheever).

[117] Nothing can be a stronger proof that we have lost the image of God, than shame concerning
the things of God. This shame, joined to the fear of man, is a very powerful enemy to God's
truths, Christ's glory, and our soul's comfort. (Mark 8:38). It is one thing to be attacked
by shame, and another to be conquered by it-(Mason).

