Recognition tends to attach itself to symbols, which take the place of more complex sensations
and memories. Some of the most difficult problems in politics result from the relation between
the conscious use in reasoning of the symbols called words, and their more or less automatic
and unconscious effect in stimulating emotion and action. A political symbol whose significance
has once been established by association, may go through a psychological development of its
own, apart from the history of the facts which were originally symbolised by it. This may be
seen in the case of the names and emblems of nations and parties; and still more clearly in
the history of those commercial entities--'teas' or 'soaps'--which are already made current
by advertisement before any objects to be symbolised by them have been made or chosen. Ethical
difficulties are often created by the relation between the quickly changing opinions of any
individual politician and such slowly changing entities as his reputation, his party name,
or the traditional personality of a newspaper which he may control.

(Chapter III.--Non-Rational Inference in Politics, page 98)

Intellectualist political thinkers often assume, not only that political action is necessarily
the result of inferences as to means and ends, but that all inferences are of the same 'rational'
type.

It is difficult to distinguish sharply between rational and non-rational inferences in the
stream of mental experience, but it is clear that many of the half-conscious processes by which
men form their political opinions are non-rational. We can generally trust non-rational inferences
in ordinary life because they do not give rise to conscious opinions until they have been strengthened
by a large number of undesigned coincidences. But conjurers and others who study our non-rational
mental processes can so play upon them as to make us form absurd beliefs. The empirical art
of politics consists largely in the creation of opinion by the deliberate exploitation of subconscious
non-rational inference. The process of inference may go on beyond the point desired by the
politician who started it, and is as likely to take place in the mind of a passive newspaper-reader
as among the members of the most excited crowd.

(Chapter IV.--The Material of Political Reasoning, page 114)

But men can and do reason, though reasoning is only one of their mental processes. The rules
for valid reasoning laid down by the Greeks were intended primarily for use in politics, but
in politics reasoning has in fact proved to be more difficult and less successful than in the
physical sciences. The chief cause of this is to be found in the character of its material.
We have to select or create entities to reason about, just as we select or create entities
to stimulate our impulses and non-rational inferences. In the physical sciences these selected
entities are of two types, either concrete things made exactly alike, or abstracted qualities
in respect of which things otherwise unlike can be exactly compared. In politics, entities
of the first type cannot be created, and political philosophers have constantly sought for
some simple entity of the second type, some fact or quality, which may serve as an exact 'standard'
for political calculation. This search has hitherto been unsuccessful, and the analogy of the
biological sciences suggests that politicians are most likely to acquire the power of valid
reasoning when they, like doctors, avoid the over-simplification of their material, and aim
at using in their reasoning as many facts as possible about the human type, its individual
variations, and its environment. Biologists have shown that large numbers of facts as to individual
variations within any type can be remembered if they are arranged as continuous curves rather
than as uniform rules or arbitrary exceptions. On the other hand, any attempt to arrange the
facts of environment with the same approach to continuity as is possible with the facts of
human nature is likely to result in error. The study of history cannot be assimilated to that
of biology.

(Chapter V.--The Method of Political Reasoning, page 138)

The method of political reasoning has shared the traditional over-simplification of its subject-matter.

In Economics, where both method and subject-matter were originally still more completely simplified,
'quantitative' methods have since Jevons's time tended to take the place of 'qualitative'.
How far is a similar change possible in politics?

Some political questions can obviously be argued quantitatively. Others are less obviously
quantitative. But even on the most complex political issues experienced and responsible statesmen
do in fact think quantitatively, although the methods by which they reach their results are
often unconscious.

When, however, all politicians start with intellectualist assumptions, though some half-consciously
acquire quantitative habits of thought, many desert politics altogether from disillusionment
and disgust. What is wanted in the training of a statesman is the fully conscious formulation
and acceptance of those methods which will not have to be unlearned.

Such a conscious change is already taking place in the work of Royal Commissions, International
Congresses, and other bodies and persons who have to arrange and draw conclusions from large
masses of specially collected evidence. Their methods and vocabulary, even when not numerical,
are nowadays in large part quantitative.

In parliamentary oratory, however, the old tradition of over-simplification is apt to persist.

(PART II.--Chapter I.--Political Morality, page 167)

But in what ways can such changes in political science affect the actual trend of political forces?

In the first place, the abandonment by political thinkers and writers of the intellectualist
conception of politics will sooner or later influence the moral judgments of the working politician.
A young candidate will begin with a new conception of his moral relation to those whose will
and opinions he is attempting to influence. He will start, in that respect, from a position
hitherto confined to statesmen who have been made cynical by experience.

If that were the only result of our new knowledge, political morality might be changed for
the worse. But the change will go deeper. When men become conscious of psychological processes
of which they have been unconscious or half-conscious, not only are they put on their guard
against the exploitation of those processes in themselves by others, but they become better
able to control them from within.

If, however, a conscious moral purpose is to be strong enough to overcome, as a political force,
the advancing art of political exploitation, the conception of control from within must be
formed into an ideal entity which, like 'Science,' can appeal to popular imagination, and be
spread by an organised system of education. The difficulties in this are great (owing in part
to our ignorance of the varied reactions of self-consciousness on instinct), but a wide extension
of the idea of causation is not inconsistent with an increased intensity of moral passion.

(Chapter II.--Representative Government, page 199)

The changes now going on in our conception of the psychological basis of politics will also
re-open the discussion of representative democracy.

Some of the old arguments in that discussion will no longer be accepted as valid, and it is
probable that many political thinkers (especially among those who have been educated in the
natural sciences) will return to Plato's proposal of a despotic government carried on by a
selected and trained class, who live apart from the 'ostensible world'; though English experience
in India indicates that even the most carefully selected official must still live in the 'ostensible
world,' and that the argument that good government requires the consent of the governed does
not depend for its validity upon its original intellectualist associations.

Our new way of thinking about politics will, however, certainly change the form, not only of
the argument for consent, but also of the institutions by which consent is expressed. An election
(like a jury-trial) will be, and is already beginning to be, looked upon rather as a process
by which right decisions are formed under right conditions, than as a mechanical expedient
by which decisions already formed are ascertained.

Proposals for electoral reform which seem to continue the old intellectualist tradition are
still brought forward, and new difficulties in the working of representative government will
arise from the wider extension of political power. But that conception of representation may
spread which desires both to increase the knowledge and public spirit of the voter and to provide
that no strain is put upon him greater than he can bear.

(Chapter III.--Official Thought, page 241)

A quantitative examination of the political force created by popular election shows the importance
of the work of non-elected officials in any effective scheme of democracy.

What should be the relation between these officials and the elected representatives? On this
point English opinion already shows a marked reaction from the intellectualist conception of
representative government. We accept the fact that most state officials are appointed by a
system uncontrolled either by individual members of parliament or by parliament as a whole,
that they hold office during good behaviour, and that they are our main source of information
as to some of the most difficult points on which we form political judgments. It is largely
an accident that the same system has not been introduced into our local government.

But such a half-conscious acceptance of a partially independent Civil Service as an existing
fact is not enough. We must set ourselves to realise clearly what we intend our officials to
do, and to consider how far our present modes of appointment, and especially our present methods
of organising official work, provide the most effective means for carrying out that intention.

(Chapter IV.--Nationality and Humanity, page 269)

What influence will the new tendencies in political thought have on the emotional and intellectual
conditions of political solidarity?

In the old city-states, where the area of government corresponded to the actual range of human
vision and memory, a kind of local emotion could be developed which is now impossible in a
'delocalised' population. The solidarity of a modern state must therefore depend on facts not
of observation but of imagination.

The makers of the existing European national states, Mazzini and Bismarck, held that the possible
extent of a state depended on national homogeneity, i.e. on the possibility that every individual
member of a state should believe that all the others were like himself. Bismarck thought that
the degree of actual homogeneity which was a necessary basis for this belief could be made
by 'blood and iron'; Mazzini thought that mankind was already divided into homogeneous groups
whose limits should be followed in the reconstruction of Europe. Both were convinced that the
emotion of political solidarity was impossible between individuals of consciously different
national types.

During the last quarter of a century this conception of the world as composed of a mosaic of
homogeneous nations has been made more difficult (a) by the continued existence and even growth
of separate national feelings within modern states, and (b) by the fact that the European and
non-European races have entered into closer political relationships. The attempt, therefore,
to transfer the traditions of national homogeneity and solidarity either to the inhabitants
of a modern world-empire as a whole, or to the members of the dominant race in it, disguises
the real facts and adds to the danger of war.

Can we, however, acquire a political emotion based, not upon a belief in the likeness of individual
human beings, but upon the recognition of their unlikeness? Darwin's proof of the relation
between individual and racial variation might have produced such an emotion if it had not been
accompanied by the conception of the 'struggle for life' as a moral duty. As it is, inter-racial
and even inter-imperial wars can be represented as necessary stages in the progress of the
species. But present-day biologists tell us that the improvement of any one race will come
most effectively from the conscious co-operation, and not from the blind conflict of individuals;
and it may be found that the improvement of the whole species will also come rather from a
conscious world-purpose based upon a recognition of the value of racial as well as individual
variety, than from mere fighting.

HUMAN NATURE IN POLITICS

INTRODUCTION

The study of politics is just now (1908) in a curiously unsatisfactory position.

At first sight the main controversy as to the best form of government appears to have been
finally settled in favour of representative democracy. Forty years ago it could still be argued
that to base the sovereignty of a great modern nation upon a widely extended popular vote was,
in Europe at least, an experiment which had never been successfully tried. England, indeed,
by the 'leap in the dark' of 1867, became for the moment the only large European State whose
government was democratic and representative. But to-day a parliamentary republic based upon
universal suffrage exists in France without serious opposition or protest. Italy enjoys an
apparently stable constitutional monarchy. Universal suffrage has just been enacted in Austria.
Even the German Emperor after the election of 1907 spoke of himself rather as the successful
leader of a popular electoral campaign than as the inheritor of a divine right. The vast majority
of the Russian nation passionately desires a sovereign parliament, and a reactionary Duma finds
itself steadily pushed by circumstances towards that position. The most ultramontane Roman
Catholics demand temporal power for the Pope, no longer as an ideal system of world government,
but as an expedient for securing in a few square miles of Italian territory liberty of action
for the directors of a church almost all of whose members will remain voting citizens of constitutional
States. None of the proposals for a non-representative democracy which were associated with
the communist and anarchist movements of the nineteenth century have been at all widely accepted,
or have presented themselves as a definite constructive scheme; and almost all those who now
hope for a social change by which the results of modern scientific industry shall be more evenly
distributed put their trust in the electoral activity of the working classes.

And yet, in the very nations which have most whole-heartedly accepted representative democracy,
politicians and political students seem puzzled and disappointed by their experience of it.
The United States of America have made in this respect by far the longest and most continuous
experiment. Their constitution has lasted for a century and a quarter, and, in spite of controversy
and even war arising from opposing interpretations of its details, its principles have been,
and still are, practically unchallenged. But, as far as an English visitor can judge, no American
thinks with satisfaction of the electoral 'machine' whose power alike in Federal, State, and
Municipal politics is still increasing.

In England not only has our experience of representative democracy been much shorter than that
of America, but our political traditions have tended to delay the full acceptance of the democratic
idea even in the working of democratic institutions. Yet, allowing for differences of degree
and circumstance, one finds in England among the most loyal democrats, if they have been brought
into close contact with the details of electoral organisation, something of the same disappointment
which has become more articulate in America. I have helped to fight a good many parliamentary
contests, and have myself been a candidate in a series of five London municipal elections.
In my last election I noticed that two of my canvassers, when talking over the day's work,
used independently the phrase, 'It is a queer business.' I have heard much the same words used
in England by those professional political agents whose efficiency depends on their seeing
electoral facts without illusion. I have no first-hand knowledge of German or Italian electioneering,
but when a year ago I talked with my hosts of the Paris Municipal Council, I seemed to detect
in some of them indications of good-humoured disillusionment with regard to the working of
a democratic electoral system.

In England and America one has, further, the feeling that it is the growing, and not the decaying,
forces of society which create the most disquieting problems. In America the 'machine' takes
its worst form in those great new cities whose population and wealth and energy represent the
goal towards which the rest of American civilisation is apparently tending. In England, to
any one who looks forward, the rampant bribery of the old fishing-ports, or the traditional
and respectable corruption of the cathedral cities, seem comparatively small and manageable
evils. The more serious grounds for apprehension come from the newest inventions of wealth
and enterprise, the up-to-date newspapers, the power and skill of the men who direct huge aggregations
of industrial capital, the organised political passions of working men who have passed through
the standards of the elementary schools, and who live in hundreds of square miles of new, healthy,
indistinguishable suburban streets. Every few years some invention in political method is made,
and if it succeeds both parties adopt it. In politics, as in football, the tactics which prevail
are not those which the makers of the rules intended, but those by which the players find that
they can win, and men feel vaguely that the expedients by which their party is most likely
to win may turn out not to be those by which a State is best governed.

More significant still is the fear, often expressed as new questions force themselves into
politics, that the existing electoral system will not bear the strain of an intensified social
conflict. Many of the arguments used in the discussion of the tariff question in England, or
of the concentration of capital in America, or of social--democracy in Germany, imply this.
Popular election, it is said, may work fairly well as long as those questions are not raised
which cause the holders of wealth and industrial power to make full use of their opportunities.
But if the rich people in any modern state thought it worth their while, in order to secure
a tariff, or legalise a trust, or oppose a confiscatory tax, to subscribe a third of their
income to a political fund, no Corrupt Practices Act yet invented would prevent them from spending
it. If they did so, there is so much skill to be bought, and the art of using skill for the
production of emotion and opinion has so advanced, that the whole condition of political contests
would be changed for the future. No existing party, unless it enormously increased its own
fund or discovered some other new source of political strength, would have any chance of permanent
success.

The appeal, however, in the name of electoral purity, to protectionists, trust-promoters, and
socialists that they should drop their various movements and so confine politics to less exciting
questions, falls, naturally enough, on deaf ears.

The proposal, again, to extend the franchise to women is met by that sort of hesitation and
evasion which is characteristic of politicians who are not sure of their intellectual ground.
A candidate who has just been speaking on the principles of democracy finds it, when he is
heckled, very difficult to frame an answer which would justify the continued exclusion of women
from the franchise. Accordingly a large majority of the successful candidates from both the
main parties at the general election of 1906 pledged themselves to support female suffrage.
But, as I write, many, perhaps the majority, of those who gave that pledge seem to be trying
to avoid the necessity of carrying it out. There is no reason to suppose that they are men
of exceptionally dishonest character, and their fear of the possible effect of a final decision
is apparently genuine. They are aware that certain differences exist between men and women,
though they do not know what those differences are, nor in what way they are relevant to the
question of the franchise. But they are even less steadfast in their doubts than in their pledges,
and the question will, in the comparatively near future, probably be settled by importunity
on the one side and mere drifting on the other.

This half conscious feeling of unsettlement on matters which in our explicit political arguments
we treat as settled, is increased by the growing urgency of the problem of race. The fight
for democracy in Europe and America during the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries was
carried on by men who were thinking only of the European races. But, during the extension of
democracy after 1870, almost all the Great Powers were engaged in acquiring tropical dependencies,
and improvements in the means of communication were bringing all the races of the world into
close contact. The ordinary man now finds that the sovereign vote has (with exceptions numerically
insignificant) been in fact confined to nations of European origin. But there is nothing in
the form or history of the representative principle which seems to justify this, or to suggest
any alternative for the vote as a basis of government. Nor can he draw any intelligible and
consistent conclusion from the practice of democratic States in giving or refusing the vote
to their non-European subjects. The United States, for instance, have silently and almost unanimously
dropped the experiment of negro suffrage. In that case, owing to the wide intellectual gulf
between the West African negro and the white man from North-West Europe, the problem was comparatively
simple; but no serious attempt has yet been made at a new solution of it, and the Americans
have been obviously puzzled in dealing with the more subtle racial questions created by the
immigration of Chinese and Japanese and Slavs, or by the government of the mixed populations
in the Philippines.

England and her colonies show a like uncertainty in the presence of the political questions
raised both by the migration of non-white races and by the acquisition of tropical dependencies.
Even when we discuss the political future of independent Asiatic States we are not clear whether
the principle, for instance, of 'no taxation without representation' should be treated as applicable
to them. Our own position as an Asiatic power depends very largely on the development of China
and Persia, which are inhabited by races who may claim, in some respects, to be our intellectual
superiors. When they adopt our systems of engineering, mechanics, or armament we have no doubt
that they are doing a good thing for themselves, even though we may fear their commercial or
military rivalry. But no follower of Bentham is now eager to export for general Asiatic use
our latest inventions in political machinery. We hear that the Persians have established a
parliament, and watch the development of their experiment with a complete suspension of judgment
as to its probable result. We have helped the Japanese to preserve their independence as a
constitutional nation, and most Englishmen vaguely sympathise with the desire of the Chinese
progressives both for national independence and internal reform. Few of us, however, would
be willing to give any definite advice to an individual Chinaman who asked whether he ought
to throw himself into a movement for a representative parliament on European lines.

Within our own Empire this uncertainty as to the limitations of our political principles may
at any moment produce actual disaster. In Africa, for instance, the political relationship
between the European inhabitants of our territories and the non-European majority of Kaffirs,
Negroes, Hindoos, Copts, or Arabs is regulated on entirely different lines in Natal, Basutoland,
Egypt, or East Africa. In each case the constitutional difference is due not so much to the
character of the local problem as to historical accident, and trouble may break out anywhere
and at any time, either from the aggression of the Europeans upon the rights reserved by the
Home Government to the non-Europeans, or from a revolt of the non-Europeans themselves. Blacks
and whites are equally irritated by the knowledge that there is one law in Nairobi and another
in Durban.

This position is, of course, most dangerous in the case of India. For two or three generations
the ordinary English Liberal postponed any decision on Indian politics, because he believed
that we were educating the inhabitants for self-government, and that in due time they would
all have a vote for an Indian parliament. Now he is becoming aware that there are many races
in India, and that some of the most important differences between those races among themselves,
and between any of them and ourselves, are not such as can be obliterated by education. He
is told by men whom he respects that this fact makes it certain that the representative system
which is suitable for England will never be suitable for India, and therefore he remains uneasily
responsible for the permanent autocratic government of three hundred million people, remembering
from time to time that some of those people or their neighbours may have much more definite
political ideas than his own, and that he ultimately may have to fight for a power which he
hardly desires to retain.

Meanwhile, the existence of the Indian problem loosens half-consciously his grip upon democratic
principle in matters nearer home. Newspapers and magazines and steamships are constantly making
India more real to him, and the conviction of a Liberal that Polish immigrants or London 'latch-key'
lodgers ought to have a vote is less decided than it would have been if he had not acquiesced
in the decision that Rajputs, and Bengalis, and Parsees should be refused it.

Practical politicians cannot, it is true, be expected to stop in the middle of a campaign merely
because they have an uncomfortable feeling that the rules of the game require re-stating and
possibly re-casting. But the winning or losing of elections does not exhaust the whole political
duty of a nation, and perhaps there never has been a time in which the disinterested examination
of political principles has been more urgently required. Hitherto the main stimulus to political
speculation has been provided by wars and revolutions, by the fight of the Greek States against
the Persians, and their disastrous struggle for supremacy among themselves, or by the wars
of religion in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, and the American and French Revolutions
in the eighteenth century. The outstanding social events in Europe in our own time have, however,
been so far the failures rather than the successes of great movements; the apparent wasting
of devotion and courage in Russia, owing to the deep-seated intellectual divisions among the
reformers, and the military advantage which modern weapons and means of communication give
to any government however tyrannous and corrupt; the baffling of the German social-democrats
by the forces of religion and patriotism and by the infertility of their own creed; the weakness
of the successive waves of American Democracy when faced by the political power of capital.

But failure and bewilderment may present as stern a demand for thought as the most successful
revolution, and, in many respects, that demand is now being well answered. Political experience
is recorded and examined with a thoroughness hitherto unknown. The history of political action
in the past, instead of being left to isolated scholars, has become the subject of organised
and minutely subdivided labour. The new political developments of the present, Australian Federation,
the Referendum in Switzerland, German Public Finance, the Party system in England and America,
and innumerable others, are constantly recorded, discussed and compared in the monographs and
technical magazines which circulate through all the universities of the globe.

The only form of study which a political thinker of one or two hundred years ago would now
note as missing is any attempt to deal with politics in its relation to the nature of man.
But no modern treatise on political science, whether dealing with institutions or finance,
now begins with anything corresponding to the opening words of Bentham's Principles of Morals
and Legislation--'Nature has placed mankind under the governance of two sovereign masters,
pain and pleasure'; or to the 'first general proposition' of Nassau Senior's Political Economy,
'Every man desires to obtain additional wealth with as little sacrifice as possible.'[1] In
most cases one cannot even discover whether the writer is conscious of possessing any conception
of human nature at all.

[1] Political, Economy (in the Encyclopedia Metropolitana), 2nd edition (1850), p. 26.

It is easy to understand how this has come about. Political science is just beginning to regain
some measure of authority after the acknowledged failure of its confident professions during
the first half of the nineteenth century. Bentham's Utilitarianism, after superseding both
Natural Right and the blind tradition of the lawyers, and serving as the basis of innumerable
legal and constitutional reforms throughout Europe, was killed by the unanswerable refusal
of the plain man to believe that ideas of pleasure and pain are the only sources of human motive.
The 'classical' political economy of the universities and the newspapers, the political economy
of MacCulloch and Senior and Archbishop Whately, was even more unfortunate in its attempt to
deduce a whole industrial polity from a 'few simple principles' of human nature. It became
identified with the shallow dogmatism by which well-to-do people in the first half of Queen
Victoria's reign tried to convince working men that any change in the distribution of the good
things of life was 'scientifically impossible.' Marx and Buskin and Carlyle were masters of
sarcasm, and the process is not yet forgotten by which they slowly compelled even the newspapers
to abandon the 'laws of political economy' which from 1815 to 1870 stood, like gigantic stuffed
policemen, on guard over rent and profits.

