 

Remained, then, our hero standing like a fool at the height of the fountain of Cibeles and mocking of
himself by the series of silly and childish he had done.

Who knows if it would be some grisette, some teachers of primary education that had come to
competitions, or something equally corny, those two had been doing
what nor ever did queens and empresses?

III

The Count of Alhedín was careful to have the Swift-Club thwarted his attempted prosecution and
the disdain with which he had tried the two unknown.

"I returned to the Jardines del Buen Retiro - said to himself -, and find out there tomorrow
last year. They will return. Do not awaken the greed of friends with excessive praise. God
knows how many would endeavor to conquer, and I would be hindered, if not beat me. I'm not
in love with either. I never believed in sudden passion. But my Curiosity is extraordinary.
Each is beautiful in style and full of unlearned elegance. I do not know what decide if the
blonde or the brunette. The same indecision increases my desire to see them again. What we observe
in the new view and decide for me one or the other.

Truth is that this preference only comes time for something. I spend my time with both, but we
must start by me want one.

If they were not sisters, if they did not walk together, or could I rush to the time the two
victories, but remain as they are, should be in order.

"

This soliloquy, made and repeated in myriad ways, but in substance
the same always, he held the thought of Count for two days and two
nights.

Hallábanle distracted peers. He apologized, without stating the real
reason distraction.

Meanwhile, or on the streets or in the gardens
at night, or anywhere else, became Count to see the two beauties,
more than wanted. And that he had a keen eye and always going to care
if he spent nearly escaped him.

The Count thought endowed with prodigious
wisdom to find mysteries to learn about qualities of people just for
the track or trace. DEMANDED DON ANGRILY                224

  THE RUNNER SMASHED INTO SIGHT, WILD-FACED FOR AN INSTANT BEFORE
     HE PUT HIS HEAD DOWN AND CHARGED IN                           306

LEFT GUARD GILBERT

LEFT GUARD GILBERT

CHAPTER I

THE BOY FROM KANSAS

"HOLD up!"

Coach Robey, coatless, vestless, hatless, his old flannel trousers held up as by a miracle
with the aid of a leather strap scarcely deserving the name of belt, pushed his way through
the first squad players. The Brimfield Head Coach was a wiry, medium-sized man of about thirty,
with a deeply-tanned face from which sharp blue eyes looked out under whitish lashes that were
a shade lighter than his eyebrows and two shades lighter than his sandy hair. As the afternoon
was excessively hot, even for the twenty-first day of September and in proximity to Long Island
Sound, Mr. George Robey's countenance was bathed in perspiration and the faded blue silk shirt
was plastered to his body.

"That was left half through guard-tackle, wasn't it? Then don't put the ball in your arm, St.
Clair. You ought to know better than that. On plays through the line hold it against your stomach
with both hands. How long do you think you'd keep that ball in your elbow after you hit the
line? Someone would knock it out in about one second! Now try it again and think what you're
doing. All right, Carmine. Same play."

The panting and perspiring backs crouched once more, Carmine shrilly called his signals, Thayer
and Gafferty plunged against an imaginary foe as Thursby shot the ball back and St. Clair,
hugging the pigskin ecstatically with wide-spread fingers, trotted through the hole, stopped,
set the ball on the grass and wiped his streaming face with the torn sleeve of a maroon jersey.

"All right," said the coach. "That will do for today. In on the trot, everyone!"

The first squad, exhaling a long, deep sigh of relief as one man, set their faces toward the
gymnasium and trotted slowly off, their canvas-clad legs swish-swashing as they met. Coach
Robey walked further down the sun-baked field to where the nearer of the remaining four squads
was at work.

"Oh, put some pep into it, McPhee!" called the coach as he approached. "You all look as if
you were asleep! Come on now! Wake up! Jones, get up there. You're away out of position. That's
better. Now then, Quarter! Hold up! What's your down?"

"Third, sir, and four to go."

"All right. Show me what you're going to do with it. Head up, Martin! Look where you're going."

"36--27--43--86!" grunted the quarter-back. "36----"

"Signal!" cried Gordon, at right half.

McPhee straightened, cast a withering look at the half-back, wiped the perspiration from the
end of his sun-burnt nose and repeated:

"36--27--43----"

Gordon shifted his feet, and--

"Hold up!" barked the coach. "Gordon, don't give the play away. Shifting your feet like that
makes it a cinch for the other fellow. Get your position now and hold it until the ball's passed.
All right. Once more, Quarter."

"36--27--43--86!" wailed McPhee. "36--27----" They provide a fun and rattling seizures the agony on the sand
shed their blood and guts, are pressed to walk the caul and the loose bowels, and walk, however,
by dint of espolazos the chopper and under shaking the sticks in their emaciated backs a fierce
porter, who ignoble and grotesquely giving is behind this beating, in order to increase the pain
and take a rest from pain momentum and energy in a being moribund, if not thought, and nerves
feel like us. With such scenes should not be so hard heart that piety is not moved, or subject
of artistic taste and elegance of manners some who do not repugnant so rude and villains, or
bronze stomach did not feel the full effects of dizziness.

In short: the bull's death is beautiful, if the killer is no more overshoot and give two or
three lunges, but frankly (I mean honestly, I am not fond sentimentality or reciter) above is abominable anywhere
you look.

Again, despite all the bulls continue. Ourselves we dare not ask be lifted, because there is in them something
of poetic and national, to please ourselves. We will be content with some changes, if possible.
We almost die happy if no horses of such a disastrous and ugly death.

As for the buffs, which, as stated, are today more enemies than the
bulls, or reform or anything we ask.

We seem fine as they are. Most do not understand the cause of censorship of them is made.

First, the buffs are buffs, and are not the sermon or the Jubilee. The mother who yearns preserve
the treasure of candor that is in the soul of his daughter, and to accrue, take any of the many
churches that contains Madrid, and not take to hear the operettas. Go only for buffs, if they
are ill, men cured of fear, and those women not missing, tanned and
in every kind of mischief, or they are so innocent, that if any evil
come to hear, not understand.

"

Moreover, I venture to assert that in the most shameless comic zarzuela there is no fifth of the
spring or green jokes in many comedies of Tirso, that many sketches
of Don Ramón de la Cruz and many other dramatic productions of our
great classical theater.

The main reason for the censure of the buffs come from an interesting hobby, from few years ago,
has seized more judgmental minds. The buffs came Paris, in the buffs often danced the cancan, the
buffs like in France, France has been defeated by Germany in the last war, then the buffs,
enervated and corrupting the nation, have taken the blame for the defeat. This has been said and in
all shades, and on this profound dissertations have been written. No one, however, has it occurred
to state that in Germany the buffs like them even more than in France than in Germany pirra
men for cancer, and that those who have beaten the French did not
come out with a discipline-spanking, but to watch the cancan dance
or dance when the beat.

As for the buffs to corrupt corrupt or pull literary taste even more unfounded accusation. Why,
do music, good or bad, is incompatible with the discretion with common sense, to wit, grace
urban and other requirements and qualities that is or could be trimmed a dramatic story? If
any dramatic fable, of these light or farcical merry, no such pledges, cúlpese uniquely the
author and his work, and not all gender and all the authors. Are you over the audience whistling?
And if public does not whistle, but the cheers, and the zarzuela
is silly, this will prove the goodness of public.

Give her something less silly and applaud more.

And when not given something less silly, critics believe that is because there is no less silly.
If it had, it would.

What you just said seems a truism, but Ponder well and it will not is. The author of operettas is
always a playwright. If you write bad operettas, dramas worst written. The critic's speech condemning the
zarzuela, stripped of fussy, is this: "You are stupid and vulgar
zarzuela: write dramas and operettas not write."

To which modestly the author could answer: "If writing operettas, which are easier and have
fewer claims, I do bad, what will I do if I start writing plays? "

The zarzuela also is one thing, and another is a good drama or a good
comedy, and not objects which are written zarzuelas to come to light
new and whales to write Lopes magnificent dramas.

I think I'm going too far with my digression. Returning to the issue I address here.

I said that in summer, although Madrid are the most elegant, Madrid is quite lively and fun.

The center of the animation, the main charm of Madrid in the summer, is in the Gardens Buen Retiro,
from 9:00 to 12:00.

The story we will refer began there, just four years ago today, on August 9, 1873.

II

It was big night for entry. There were almost all young journalists, employees and poets; corny
much is in Madrid, that is, all the ladies and girls of very little money aspire to be noticed
or known in good society, or say to yourself in the company more money, no matter how bad, and
many honorable families of the middle class, no other aspirations
than to suck the fresh air and a bit distracted listening to the music,
the quiff or courtesans of all grades and categories, so to have met
with holders of a quarter when entering, many notable politicians
of the fifteen or twenty parties in Spain, a hundred generals, not
a few congressmen, senators and ministers, and, Finally, that part
of the beau monde had not yet come for the summer, promising to leave,
or that he was so sure of your credit wealthy, who feared going to
compromise on Madrid one summer.

All this public, or sat on benches and chairs, forming a circle, muttering,
politicking, flirting and falling in love, or revolved around the
kiosk, where the music played, giving round and round, even treacherous
comparison, as mules wheel.

The garden, as everyone knows, is very nice, and at night, gas-lit evenings balloon-white and
opaque glass, looks older.

That lends itself to the tree lighting and the green grass and flowers somewhat vague and
beauty. The hustle and bustle give pleasure to the upper.

Women, when not blinded by vanity or the itch to excel, are usually well-dressed. In twenty
one can say that, at best, and not much is usually entrusted the
devil for the eye and comb, where it appears in the Gardens made a
hag; but the other nineteen are as God intended, a blanket, hat other,
not few are very pretty, either way it carried.

All that, in general, could censor that night, and may even criticized in the suit women, is
along the lines. To walk to the Gardens, and although they go in car, to walk after walk, is
all that ugly and dirty white petticoat attachment dress that drags, gathering dust, lifting
and spreading in the air, and sweeping, finally, how much filth is the step. The queue is not
good but for clean walk on soft carpets, marble or burnished, lustrous, precious or and polished
wood, embedded in the form of elaborate mosaic. To walk the streets or the field, where there
is usually mud and who knows what worse, a woman of taste must without
the tail.

Some, but are less, do without now.

At night we are referring to was declaiming against the tails a little gentleman, as twenty-eight
years, newly arrived from Germany and France, and the most elegant,
bold and cheerful can imagine.

Rodeábanle, and involuntarily admired him and thank him were laughing, others five young men from
the most prim and haughty in Madrid.

Our orator had come so late is for a home business. Planned to spend in Madrid three or four
weeks at most and go to Biarritz in September.

He had the reputation of a skull, but not the skulls and exploited
victims nor executioners and operators.

Although generous, used to lend to those who call themselves friends and had taken borrowed
from loan sharks, and he knew contained when I played and lost, and
not let anyone loot their managers, and carried in memory all their
properties, income and products, and watched for everything, and when
I was with your account and reason, and without ever blinded by vanity
or affection.

This gentleman had more than 15,000 dollars a year, was unmarried, Andalusian, did not have a single
debt, and bore the title of Count of Alhedín the Alto.

I had never wanted to study or continue any race. It was, however, curious and clear; I had
read many novels and popular and entertaining of all kinds of wisdom: and with this, and the treatment
of the world, and travel for the best in Europe, had come to have a spirit quite cultivated and
understood everything, though briefly.

He hated politics. To hate newspapers. I never took one in hand but to read ads. Contemporary
public events teased him and would not learn them. Poetry was a thousand times more ancient
stories that modern, and interested falling more than Sardanapalus
Napoleon III, and the fabulous achievements of Osiris those of the
first Napoleon.

He had not wanted to decide himself whether it was realistic or Republican,
liberal or illiberal supporter of this Constitution or that.

In religion and philosophy was less lazy, but if politics was irrelevant in this another was uncertain.
In that, it mattered little if not resolved, in this, in spite of himself, not resolved.

Moreover, as I do with the practicality of his life and his conduct, Count Alhedín had a philosophy
of self, a particular doctrine, a collection of principles which
served as a guide and standard for behavior.

Réstame say that this hero, I put in the field, was of medium height, graceful, strong and
agile. Pulling the foil as few, and with a gun in his hand almost no one is ahead. Great rider
and a good hunter, he had never boasted of a bullfighter. What we did have a hobby, for two or
three years of his earliest youth, was to imitate Leotard, and with such success, flying through
the air, in the combined traps, like a witch.

It was not without however, but a nice guy, dark, beautiful eyes, dark-haired and twisted
whiskers shiny and well groomed beard.

Having lectured against queues reported a series of anecdotes that
occurred to him or to someone you know, in foreign lands where it
came from.

Some of these stories were hunting or riding, the most were of love, finding means of disseminating
their triumphs and conquests, who pretended to believe or believed
their partners, or rather, his audience Count it was of those who,
whether they speak beautifully, fatigue and offend the least suffered,
monopolizing the use of the word and not consenting, as they say,
that no goal but they trick or spoon.

Despite this monopoly is not to deny that the Count was funny in conversation. Speaking, loved
or dazzled.

Recounted how few, and with such art, which he believed history, although it was a lie, and
the audience used to believe it too.

It seems that the imagination and memory were in Count one and only faculty of the soul.

He was petulant, but smugly cute, cheerful and sweet, no one offended. Its fine Figure nice manners
and did much to produce such good effect.

That night they had taken to denigrate everything.

Reminding the Russian princess, the ladies English to German Countess, the French du Faubourg
Saint-Germain, and even the Phanariotes Greek, which was treated with the utmost privacy, it
was not worth holding a damn all women who were walking at that time in the outfield.

"Just - he said - if this whole miserable crowd can cull half dozen warrant a declaration of
love. "

Friends challenged as cruel censorship, and the Count, to defend himself,
holding his opinion grace and naturalness.

As was well disputed and walking, he suddenly noticed that he walked in front of two women two
tiny, slim, young people apparently, but only from behind the saw,
and something had heard and continued to hear of his diatribe and
dispute, because occasionally whispering and laughed, as if their
comments to the conversation of those who came back.

Conde had not seen the face of any of those two women. The costume of them all eye was remarkably
vulgar and profane. The one dressed in black silk light and the other a dark suit of calico
poor, the two were on their blanket. There was, however, such neatness and toilet in the whole
being and even the environment that surrounded and enveloped those women that, without managing the
explanation, the Count seemed to feel like a magnetic current, and got to imagine that these
two women were challenging his assertion, and that any of them considered, with good reason, an
argument alive, very strong and irresistible, against their foolish statements.

Conde also warned that both had nice body and graceful movements unaffected
and wearing the skirt gathered enough to not blemished or powdering
awkwardly sand and so they could descry from time to time her tiny
feet, sharp, high torso and footwear dedication botincillos funny.

The desire to see their faces was felt immediately in the mind of Conde, but they, perhaps suspecting
that desire, not turn their face, may to counter and make you more alive.

The Count had to walk faster and move ahead of them to look at them. Then he saw with a pleasant
surprise that both were pretty. In the face were declaring that they
were sisters.

They looked to the air like we call family, and were all very different. The older and smaller
of stature, of the silk dress, was brunette, with eyes and black hair, as a cherry red lips and
white teeth that showed laughing.

The smaller, calico dress, was taller and seemed to have four or
five years younger than the other, ten and eight at most, was white
and blonde with blue eyes, and properly looked like an angel.

No laughed so much as most, and was more serious and less carefree.

He had a singular expression sweetness, serenity and quiet contentment.

Count

well known that unknown to him, nor were they of what they call the
society or could not be placed in any of the levels of the hierarchy
of the straight.

His piercing gaze and knew at once that experienced were both middle
class, or poor, or very modest, that must have been married brunette
and the blonde was single. Saw anyone accompanying them, and thought
he noticed they were in a hurry and have come as repentant alone and
that if one side were flattered to have self-esteem as the attention
of disdainful lover, the other went suspicious, almost appalled that
little triumph.

Among the friends of Conde had boasted of knowing
that all Madrid, high, low and medium, provided the people belonged
to women. The Count asked who were those girls. All looked on, and
they all said they did not know.

- Are outsiders - added one.

-
Will be new to London - said another.

- Must be either Malaga or
Seville - exclaimed a third.

- Sevillanas son - said the Count -.
I have no doubt.

He made a pompous eulogy of Seville in general with
clear allusions to the two who went before and that such was, and
spoke much louder voice that he had used in the rant, so you might
hear them and serve his speech as a function of relief.

"I am not," denied Don, good-humouredly indignant. "I've kept in strict training all summer.
What you think is fat is good hard muscle, Timmy. Feel of that arm if you don't believe it."

"Yes, quite village-blacksmithy."

"Quite what?"

"Village-blacksmithy. 'The muscles of his mighty arms were strong as iron bands,' or something
like that. Get out of the way and let me wash up."

Don retired to his dresser and passed the brushes over his brown hair and snugged his tie up
a bit. The face that looked back at him from the mirror was not, perhaps, handsome, although
it by no means merited Tim's aspersions. There was a nice pair of dark brown eyes, rather slumberous
looking, a nose a trifle too short for perfection and a mouth a shade too wide. But it was
a good-tempered, pleasant face, on the whole, intelligent and capable and matching well the
physically capable body below, a body of wide shoulders and well-knit muscles and a deep chest
that might have belonged to a youth of eighteen instead of seventeen. Compared with Tim Otis,
who was of the same age, Don Gilbert suffered on only two counts--quickness and vivacity. Tim,
well-muscled, possessed a litheness that Don could never attain to, and moved, thought and
spoke far more quickly. In height Don topped his friend by almost a full inch and was broader
and bigger-boned. They were both, in spite of dissimilarity, fine, manly fellows.

Tim, wiping his hands after ablutions, turned to survey Don with a quizzical smile on his good-looking
face. And, after a moment's reflective regard of his chum's broad back, he broke the silence.

"Say, Don," he asked, "glad to get back?"

Don turned, while a slow smile crept over his countenance.

"Su-u-re," he drawled.

CHAPTER III

AMY HOLDS FORTH

BRIMFIELD ACADEMY is at Brimfield, and Brimfield is a scant thirty miles out of New York City
and some two or three miles from the Sound. It is more than possible that these facts are already
known to you; if you live in the vicinity of New York they certainly are. But at the risk of
being tiresome I must explain a little about the school for the benefit of those readers who
are unacquainted with it. Brimfield was this Fall entering on its twenty-fifth year, a fact
destined to be appropriately celebrated later on. The enrollment was one hundred and eighty
students and the faculty consisted of twenty members inclusive of the principal, Mr. Joshua
L. Fernald, A.M., more familiarly known as "Josh." The course covers six years, and boys may
enter the First Form at the age of twelve. Being an endowed institution and well supplied with
money under the terms of the will of its founder, Brimfield boasts of its fine buildings. There
are four dormitories, Wendell, Torrence, Hensey and Billings, all modern, and, between Torrence
and Hensey, the original Academy Building now known as Main Hall and containing the class rooms,
school offices, assembly room and library. The dining hall is in Wendell, the last building
on the right. Behind Wendell is the gymnasium. Occupying almost if not quite as retiring a
situation at the other end of the Row, is the Cottage, Mr. Fernald's residence. Each dormitory
is ruled over by a master. In Billings Mr. Daley, the instructor in modern languages, was in
charge at the period of this story, and since it was necessary to receive permission before
leaving the school grounds after supper, Don and Tim paused at Mr. Daley's study on the way
out. Don's knock on the portal of Number 8 elicited an instant invitation to enter and a moment
later he was shaking hands with the hall master, a youngish man with a pleasant countenance
and a manner at once eager and embarrassed. Mr. Daley was usually referred to as Horace, which
was his first name, and, as he shook hands, Don very nearly committed the awful mistake of
calling him that! After greetings had been exchanged Don explained somewhat vaguely the reason
for his tardy arrival and then requested permission to visit Coach Robey in the village after
supper.

"Yes, Gilbert, but--er--be back by eight, please. I'm not sure that Mr. Robey isn't about school,
however. Have you inquired?" If they repeated
these things so annoying, please do not return, I will always be your friend, but not seeing, you and
I will win.

Rafael was embarrassed to see that Leonora knew their secrets.

It was thought a fool, and passed out of said smugly:

- Do not think such things are enemies gossip. I am of age, and I suppose Mom unafraid I can
go where I please.

- Be well, keep coming, as this is your taste, but you can not deny that there is against me any overt
hostility. And if I came to love, my God! What I would say then? Believe that he had come only
to seduce Don Rafael, and now you see how far I it.

This would lose the peace that I like. If you speak against me now
just imagine what would be then!

... No, I want to stay still. Bite me all they want but that is no reason, out of sheer envy.
You see, if I do.

And looking toward the spot where the city was hidden behind the rows of orange and laughed scornfully.

Frankness
that became joyful again, which she made herself the first victim, and continued lowering his voice
with his accent sensitive and loving:

- And then, Rafaelito, you have not set well with me. If I am almost an old! ... I know; I do
not need the warning are the same age, but the sex difference and increase life mine significantly.
You are male and almost starts now to live. I go from sixteen years rolling around the world,
from stage to stage, and this damn character, this desire do not hide anything, not to lie,
it has helped me worse than I am.

I have in the world with many enemies believe these happy times with my inexplicable disappearance.
In our life as artists is impossible to advance a step without arousing
the hatred of comrade the most implacable of the passions.

And do you know what they say about me these good people? Well I'm a gallant woman rather
than an artist, a kind of courtesan who sings and is displayed on the stage as a showcase.

- This is an outrage - Rafael said arrogantly .-- I should say that ever before me.

- Bah! Do not be a child. It will be a shame, but not entirely without merit. I been something
of what they say, but men account for more blame than me ... I've been an unchecked in my crazy
whim, leaving sometimes tempted by the splendor of wealth, other for the beauty or value,
fleeing as soon as I became convinced that there was no to find anything new, no matter the
desperation of men to see their dream interrupted.

And all this mad rush, desperate to some, maddening to others, upsetting
life in many parts of Europe, I've taken a consequence, or that the
poets call love exists and is an invention agreeable, or I was not
born to love and I'm immune because that after a hectic life, when
I collect the past, I admit that my heart felt really ... or this.

And he snapped between the teeth and sharp rosy nail of his thumb.

- You say it all - continued .-- After a long absence, in which I
ever I remembered you, I wish that I know well and forever.

Let's see if we live alone.

I understand that these good women crave confession of gardens, ranging in looking for the priest
walking in the sun or rain. This afternoon I need to say everything. I have here in a little
devil who pushes and pushes to throw out all my past.

- Well, you talk. If I am your confessor and deserve your trust, something going forward.

- What do you want to advance in my heart if it is empty? Do you think that would make a great
thing conquerors? If I am worthless! Would not you: I am worthless. Here in this solitude, I
can examine carefully and I admit it: nothing. Is the physical? ... yes I confess I am not
ugly, and though he modestly refuses to ridiculous, there's my story, to prove that I liked much.
But alas, Rafaelito! That is the exterior, the facade, and with a few winters it will rain
on unpainted and full of cracks. But inwardly believe me, I'm a wreck. With so many festivals
and fall riots partitions, floors swaying. I have run very fast, I've burned the wings for him
headfirst into the flame of life. Do you know what I am? One of these old boats, falls on the
beach, view from afar still retain the color of his first trips, but only ask for you age oblivion
and rotting in the sand. And you start now, there comes to a position in carrion dangerous
waves returning to the fund raising it to perish? ... Rafael, my
friend My, do not be silly.

I'm good friend, I can no longer be ... even though you love her. We are a different breed. I
have studied you and see that it is wise, honest and shy. I I am of the breed of crazy, imbalanced,
I enlisted under the banner forever of Bohemia, and I can not desert.

Every man his way. You will easily find a woman makes him happy ... The more stupid the better
... You were born to a parent.

Rafael thought he was mocking him as usual. But no, his accent was sincere, her face was not made
by the wry smile, spoke tenderly, as admonishing a child following crooked paths.

- Whether you like it. If the world was composed of people like me life would be impossible. Also
I have my moments when I long to be transfigured, poultry be like everyone else around me.
Think about money and what they will eat tomorrow, buy land, discuss the farmers, fertilizer study,
having children that worry me with their colds and shoes that break, do not take my worldly aspirations
beyond selling good harvest. There are times that would be chicken. Great! A fence of reeds
around the world, affordable food peak, and spend hours and hours in the sun, still on a cane
... You laugh? For this life I have begun to try it and it's going very well. I go every Wednesday
to market, buy chickens and eggs, argue for fun with the vendors to stop giving them what they
ask for invites chocolate in the orchard of this outline, and come home escorted by all of
them that are admired to hear me talk to Beppa in a strange language. If you see me want! ...
In his eyes I read the awe SEÑORET recognize that it is not as bad as say the city. Do you
remember the poor gardener sick that we saw in the chapel later? He comes here often and always
give something. Also that I want ... All this is very nice, right? Peace, love of the humble;
an innocent elderly, poor aunt, who seems to have rejuvenated having me here. However, any day
this crust paperback, formed by the sun and the air of the orchards, is broken into pieces and
re- appear in every age, the Valkyrie.

A horse soon! A gallop over the world, in the whirlwind of pleasure, acclaimed by the choir of
desire brutal! ... I feel that this going to happen.

Until the spring I have sworn to be here and we start to flutter on the ground. Look at these roses,
look at those orange ... Ay! I'm afraid the spring has always been Station fatal for me.

He was pensive a few minutes. Doña Pepa and the Italian had gone into the house. Good old could
not spend much time away from the kitchen.

Leonora had dropped her work on the bench and looked at the top, marking the soft curve tense
your throat.

He seemed lost in a trance, as if pass before his eyes the vision the past. Suddenly he rose with
a shudder.

- I think I'm sick, Rafael.

I do not know what I have today. Perhaps the strangeness of him, to follow conversation that evokes my
past after months of quiet ... Do not speak, not say anything, please.

You have the rare ability to unwittingly make me talk, to remind I
want to have forgotten ... Come on, give me your arm, Let's walk through
the garden: this me good.

"

Leonora stood up leaning on the arm of Rafael, and began to walk along the broad avenue leading to
the plaza from the gate. Moving away from the house, and the dense canopy of orange trees,
the artist smiled mischievously, waving a hand in the attitude threat.

- I hope you will come back from your trip more serious and respectful. No play and daring, Huh?
You know I'm strong and how spending.

II

All night he Rafael awake and turning in bed.

Supporters had been treated to a serenade until after midnight. The most notable were shown
to have been offended by the whole evening at the casino waiting
in vain for the deputy.

It appeared there at dusk and again after shaking hands and answering greetings as in the morning,
went home without daring to lift his head at his mother.

He was afraid of those angry eyes, where it could probably read the
story of how had done for the evening, but also cherished the purpose
to disobey his mother, opposing his energy glacial resistance.

Just finished the serenade, got into his room, avoiding any explanation Dona Bernarda.

Sunk into the bed and turned off the light, I felt an intense pleasure remembering what happened
that afternoon. Travel fatigue, poor night spent in the car, gave no sleep and with open eyes
in the dark was reconstituting what the artist had told late walking in the garden. It was
almost the whole story of his life, confessed in disarray as driven by the desire to unload on someone
your secret, with gaps and jumps Rafael filled out by efforts of imagination.

The memories of his trip to Italy he returned to live and dormant, and cooled by Leonora's revelations.

He
saw the thick dark Victor Emmanuel Gallery, Milan, with its huge
triumphal arch giant mouth that seems to swallow the cathedral, the
Duomo, which stands a few steps, crowned by a forest of statues and
pierced needles.

The double gallery cut in a cross, with its walls covered with columns, perforated four rows
of windows supporting the great glass roof. Lower floors, almost no outer wall, all glass,
windows of bookstores and music stores, windows cafes and pubs, shops, jewelers and tailors luxury
dazzling.

At one end of the Duomo, the other a monument to Leonardo da Vinci, and the famous La Scala Theater:
and the four arms of the Gallery, a continuous movement of people, an incessant going and coming
groups which merge and separate, of hands that shake, shouting that express the surprise of recognition,
quadruple avalanche flowing into the center of the cross, the Replaces where coffee Biffi, known
in all theaters of the world, extending its rows of little tables marble. The steps sound in the
galleries as an immense cloister, the screams are confused and high glass skylight seems throbbing
with the hum of human ants down stirred day and night.

There is the market for artists, the auction of music, voices recruiter flag. From there go for
glory or for the hospital all day, played a throat recognizing that they had something, and dropped
the needle, or pen tool, running Milan from all corners of the world. They gather to digest
the macaroni trattoria hoping the world will see justice done, planting of millions the path of
his life, all art unhappy recruits: those who start, and to enter into the glory seeking a contract
in any municipal puppet theater of the Milanese and loose in the
weekly the town, sent home to friends and relatives believe their
greatest triumphs.

And mixed with them, overwhelmed with the importance of their past, veterans of the art which to the delight
of almost missing a generation: tenors with gray hair and teeth false, old forts and arrogant
and hollow coughing voice to show that still retain the sound of the baritone, people put
their savings in motion, with the Italian stinginess comparable only to the greed of the Jews
and lends money or open shop after silks and velvets dragged on stage.

The two dozen eminent universal singing on the first theaters in the world, go through the same
rumor Gallery arouse admiration for kings when left view of their subjects. The pariahs of art,
always waiting for hire, welcome to worship and talk about the castle of Lake Como bought by
the great tenor, of the dazzling jewelry the eminent soprano, as
funny with his hat placed the acclaimed baritone and his words of
admiration is a taste of bitterness against destiny, a shock envy,
the conviction to be as worthy as them in such splendor, the protest
against bad luck to which they attribute their misfortune.

Hope flutters before them, dazzled by the reflection of his golden scales, keeping the passivity
of the hungry miserable waiting and not knowing certainly trust where reach the glory and wealth.
And between these groups of youth that is consumed in the impotence, perhaps destined to die
standing in the gallery, about often and light step another fold of the chimera with the girls
under his arm Spartite will house teachers, blond and skinny English girl who want to be light
sopranos; Russian plump peliblancas that greet with a gesture of dramatic soprano; Spanish look of
bold and courageous garbo preparing to be on stage Bizet's cigarette, birds and sound frivolous
the nest with many hundreds of miles and took flight dazzled by the glasses of glory.

At the end of Carnival season, appearing in the gallery artists who
have passed Winter in major theaters around the world.

They come from London, St. Petersburg, New York or Melbourne in search of new contracts, have
run the globe with indifference which everybody has at home, have spent a week on the train or
months in the steam to return to his corner of the gallery, but the journey they have been
renovated, resuming tangles, backbiting and envy, as if they had
left there the previous day.

They are grouped to the large windows with air of disdain, like princes who go undercover and
do not know hide its high origin of the thunderous ovations speaking, public taxed by exotic exhibit
welcomes children, brightly in the fingers and tie, with studied suggest reserve outbursts of
large ladies who love crazy wanted to follow Milan exaggerate amounts won on his journey and frown
haughtily when some unfortunate comrade asked for a drink in the coffee immediately Biffi.

And when they get new contracts, the mercenary nightingales again up flight indifferent, no
matter where they go, and new trains and steamers distribute throughout the land with its absurdities
and foibles to pick them up months later and return to the Gallery, its legitimate house,
the fixed scenario in which they have to drag their old age.

Meanwhile, the outcasts, those who never reach the Bohemians of Milan, to be alone, they comfort
speaking ill of fellow celebrities, lie that no contracts have been offered, irreducible feign
arrogance with entrepreneurs and composers, to justify their inaction;
Garibaldi and the filter in the neck, clad in Russian that almost
sweeps the floor, roll Biffi tables defying the cold gale blowing
at the crossing of the Gallery, talk and talk to distract the hunger
that bites them guts, and despising the ordinary working of those
who earn their bread with their hands, are undaunted in their misery,
satisfied with their as artists, making the face of misfortune with
a candor and a strong will that move, lit by Hope, who accompanies
them to the last moment to close your eyes.

Rafael remembered this strange world, seen slightly in the few days
that remained Milan.

His companion, the canon had found there an old boy of the cathedral choir Valencia, without
another job now that the clock be planted in the gallery. With him Brull had met the lives of
those laborers of art, always standing in the market waiting for the love that never comes.

He
imagined the adolescence of Leonora in that great city, as part of innumerable Girls flock of
trotting gracefully along the sidewalks with the score under your arm or encourages the narrow
alleys with its trills and coos at through the windows.

He saw through the Gallery at Doctor Moreno's side: she blond, skinny,
angular, with an exaggerated imbalance of growth, looking surprised
with his big eyes that green cold and tumultuous city so different
from the warm gardens of her childhood, the father, bearded, frowning,
energetic, still irritated by the failure of their beloved beliefs,
a frightful ogre for those who did not know his childlike simplicity.

The two walked as exiles who had found refuge in art stirred in the void of that life, including
greedy teachers who wanted to prolong indefinitely the teaching and unable artists While talking
to themselves.

They lived on the fourth floor of the track Passarella, narrow, dark and high walls, as streets of
old Alcira; an alley inhabited by music publishers, theatrical agencies and retired artists.
The goalkeeper was a former choir performed, the principal was busy by an agency under the sun
where there was no other than voices put to the test, the other floors of living singers out
of bed to start exercising throat shaking the house from the roof of the cave like a music box.
He and his daughter occupied two rooms in the house of a former dancer who had achieved great
love wins in the major courts of Europe, and was now a shriveled
skeleton, walking almost blindly through the halls, engaging the nuanced
greedy disputes raised with oaths of road, no other traces of its
past that crisp silk suits and the diamonds, emeralds and pearls in
her ears were being replaced stilted.

Leonora wanted to cripple the affection of the recruits entering rows. Every day Dr. Moreno was
going to a café in the gallery, which was a gathering of old musicians who had fought under
the command of Garibaldi, and young people who wrote scripts for the stage and articles in newspapers
and socialist Republicans. That was his world: the only thing made him sympathetic his stay in Milan.
After their isolation at home down there, It seemed a paradise that corner of the smoky cafe,
where Italian Job, nuanced of Spanish interjections, he could talk of Beethoven and the hero
of Marsala, and remained hours in delicious ecstasy, seeing through the dense atmosphere and the
red shirt the blond hair and graying of the great Giuseppe while
his companions recount the exploits the most romantic of the warlords.

When he was in the cafe, Leonora remained in the care of the landlady, and shy child, shrunken and
amazed, spending hours in the lounge of the former dancer, surrounded by the friends of it, ruins
of the past, ardent worship of great lords who had many years rotting earth, witches scorched
by love watching every moment her showy jewelry, and fearing to be
stolen, and cigarette smoking were gazing at the small, discussing
her beauty, prophesying that he would go very far if you knew how
to live.

- I had excellent teachers - Leonora said, recalling that
period of his youth .-- They were good in the background, but with
them there was nothing left to learn.

Can not remember when I opened my eyes. I I have not ever been innocent.

Some nights the doctor had to coffee gatherings or the upper gallery
of the Scala if a musician gave him tickets.

This was getting to know the friends of his father that bohemia in which the music was always
linked to an ideal of European revolution, jumble artists and conspirators, old teachers bald,
myopic, their backs bent by a lifetime of tilting at the lectern, young brown-eyed grilled with
bristling manes and red tie, talking to destroy the society, making it responsible for his
opera were not admitted to the Scala or that any great teacher would take a look at their lyrical
dramas. One of them caught the attention of Leonora. I watched for hours sunk coffee on the
couch, almost hidden by the arms, always moving, his father. Was a extremely thin young blonde.
Its narrow goatee and long hair covered by fine the excessive felt, remembered Leonora the Charles
I, painted by Van Dik and seen by her artwork.

But Thacher found the going even harder than her opponent had and in a moment she, too, was
forced to punt.

This time it was St. Clair who caught and who, eluding both Thacher ends, ran straight along
the side line until he was upset near the enemy's thirty-five yards. As he went down he managed
to get one foot over the line and the referee paced in fifteen yards, set the ball to earth
and waved toward the Thacher goal.

Martin faked a forward pass and the ball went to Gordon for a try at right tackle. Thayer and
Gafferty opened a fine hole there and Gordon romped through and made eight before the Thacher
secondary defence brought him down. Martin completed the distance through centre. From the
twenty-four yards to the ten the ball went, progress, however, becoming slower as the attack
neared the goal. On a shift that brought Thayer to the right side of the line, St. Clair got
around the short end for three and Martin added two more, leaving the pigskin on the five-yard
line. It was third down and Martin went back to kick. But after a moment's hesitation Carmine
changed his signals and the ends stole out toward the side lines. Thacher proceeded to arrange
her forces to intercept a forward pass and again Carmine switched. The ends crept back and
Martin retired to the fifteen-yard line and patted the turf. Carmine knelt in front of him
and eyed the goal. Then the signals came again, and with them the ball, and it was Martin who
caught it and not Carmine. Two steps to the right, a quick heave, a frenzied shouting from
the defenders of the goal, a confused jostling, and Captain Edwards, one foot over the line,
reached his arms into the air, pulled down the hurtling pigskin, tore away from one of the
enemy, lunged forward and went down under a mass of bodies, but well over the goal line.

Brimfield found her enthusiasm then, and her voice, and cheered loudly and long, only ceasing
when Carmine walked out with the ball under his arm and flung himself to the turf opposite
the right hand goal post. Thursby, hustled in by Coach Robey, measured distance and direction,
stepped forward and, as the line of Thacher warriors swept forward with upstretched hands,
swung his toe against the ball and sent it neatly across the bar.

With the score seven to nothing against her, Thacher returned to the fray with a fine determination,
but, when the teams had changed places after the kick-off and the last period had begun, she
speedily found that victory was not to be her portion. Mr. Robey sent in nearly a new team
during that last ten minutes and the substitutes, fresh and eager, went at it hammer-and-tongs.
Thacher enlisted fresh material, too, but it couldn't stop the onslaught that soon took the
ball down the field to within close scoring distance of her goal. That Brimfield did not add
another touchdown was only because her line, overanxious, was twice found off-side and penalised.
Even then the ball went at last to within six inches of the goal line and it was only after
the nimble referee had dug into the pile-up like a terrier scratching for a bone in an ash-heap
that the fact was determined that Thacher had saved her bacon by the width of the ball. She
kicked out of danger from behind her goal and after two plays the final whistle blew.

It was a very hot and very weary crowd of fellows who thronged the dressing room in the gymnasium
five minutes later and, above the swish of water in the showers, shouted back and forth and
discussed the game from as many angles as there had been participants. Possibly Brimfield had
no very good reason for feeling proud of her afternoon's work, for last year she had defeated
Thacher 26 to 3. That game, however, had taken place two weeks later in the season, when the
Maroon-and-Grey was better off in the matter of experience, and so perhaps was not a fair comparison. Not long ago down from
his people asking me "something", at this hour and in such terms that I had to give the "God
you for protection" with the shotgun lying in the face. First and only time I've seen.

"For good and for a finishing touch to the way that I bring and I'm tired: I think if we encourage you
and give me the gift of your company in this house, the cry of the earth, I would be more bearable.
There is nothing more to do tempt among these solitary crags, you who are seasoned the buttocks
and gifts of the court, but to everything men do when they insist on it, without also relevant
here is its sun, and although it is true that it takes a little in the morning in transposing
the peaks that surround the place, and lights up once warms and gladdens the soul like the
sun more friendly of any party. In addition, your exile could not last long for reasons that
I know, and last settlement, to leave it in could not resist as he
was finishing the story for you.

'Item more: I have certain plans in the Magin, they give me much to do. What man walks free
them for me? I have no heirs and no longer have at home something to throw losing my own membership,
something that will go God knows where, if my last and rearward no
mole at sight with a being that makes me a little tingling in interlinings
of the heart.

"Of course, I do not try to turn on your lust with these hints.

A large part go! But all is well and have stipulated this in hours that have begun run to me.

"Well,
man, come on come over here, and if you can not do it for fun, do
it for charity of God.

"

Least the 'slump' and its consequences, all that my uncle told me this letter to me I was well
known, and knew also, what is easily deduced from its earlier low correspondence with us and how little
I had told my father, who was his brother Celso a folksy man of few lyrics and excellent heart,
acute and somewhat cunning Magin, as a good mountaineer, and more careful cultivation and prosperity
of their land and livestock, which the promotion of their affection for the family she had
left; sloppiness that sometimes played in an indifference seemed bordering the absolute oblivion.
Unless I knew my uncle in his native land and of our solar house, not so much because of my
lack of curiosity about such matters as by the work of one of the most salient weakness of my
father. He further called attention surnames personal conditions of "our", and thus to ask for
life and times of any of them, rather than straight answer to the question, perched at the
top of the family tree, and crawled from branch to branch to down, not stop to give the least,
with the leg of the Cid, if it is satisfied with that. Their parents could only take in clean,
at different times asked news on them, which had been the junction of the house "only" of the Ruiz
de Bejos of Tablanca, with those of Gómez de Pomar, the most illustrious of the promise. Few
flow, yes, by mainly the latter, that is, by my paternal grandmother, who only brought into
the marriage a few necklaces and earrings of coral, two silver reliquaries a splinter of the
True Cross, and a bone of St. Felicitas, respectively, three sets of linen, linen tablecloths
home two, a gold chain from Cordoba, the prom dress with his marriage, and another half for
everyday use. On my grandfather was a thing very different. Our house Tablanca exercised throughout
the valley, by virtue of their status amen of noble charity, certain undeniable and patriarchal
dominion, and was forced whereabouts of all the notable people who passed by, even bishops. Just
as remember my father had stayed two in it: the de Santander and Leon. For these and other necessities
like chests and cabinets were in good supply of linens and table linens higher abundant solid
silver table and up to two damask bedspreads and a crucifix ivory and ebony. Nothing was there
that must not be missing from the house of a family like ours. But its situation, its form,
its extent, its comforts, or short, at most, which was great, with sunny, coat of arms and
ancillary. Ground it was located and its outskirts, the conditions and appearance of landscape,
climate, of its resources for life more than animal, the customs of its inhabitants, was idle inquire
anything by reports that good sir, that be so paid out of race and put on the horns of the moon
the arms of his house and the land they had born only once and very quickly returned to it
after having left it, though rule of necessity, as a boy yet. Went back to the top of all that
had heard and read about this empingorotada region of the Cantabrian Mountains, and was to
see how they are there, primarily with the Celts, our putative progenitors, and took down then
from there to become embroiled hand in hand and as one fan and regular fair price and current
family issues, with those tribes untamed, with that fierce Spaniard passed the Alps with Hannibal
against Rome fought and defeated Scipio in Ticino. After talking Augustus and his legions who
have come to Cantabria expressly to subject the Roman yoke; that that was our thrust, that
"our" value and that "our" attachment to independence, that Caesar had six years to succeed in
an endeavor that had seemed to work a few days of the horrors of this barbarous war between inaccessible
crags and deep and dark ravines where the water roared inks in the blood of "our" and hardened
legionnaires. No missing as of mothers during the war killed their little ones to not see them
slaves to foreign winners, nor the death of so many cross martyrs singing hymns of freedom from
curses to the conqueror, and with all this, a number of details about the type and the mores of
his heroes, details that I had wanted on the land they inhabit, as it was in my days. Far from
it, leaving only Cantabrians to mix his successors in the epic of Covadonga or the trouble of "Bands"
of Castile, and you put here with dithyrambs their illustrious "ancestors", ran with them the
five parts of the world to not know where he was, nor I either. Because on these matters my
father was a generous scholarship, but somewhat suspicious, work a greed that came with the truth
as with the fantastic, by clinging tenaciously, but purely platonic, things of earth.

In this way I knew it, upon receiving the letter from my uncle, little more is known, by guesswork
or by comparison, other fellows who have been "passing" and very quickly.

Meanwhile I had already served thirty-two years for six who was a doctor in both rights, albeit
unknowingly, by disuse of them, what they were for those things more
than seven that field for my respect, and gave me the high life with
the flow that I inherited from my father.

Because my mother did not inherit a penny. Granada was a very pretty daughter of a judge Hearing
of that land. He met my father walked over there a while, busy mining
business, and married her in the overnight.

The judge was a widower and poor, and died two years after the wedding of his daughter.

I owe to God, among other grants, the temperament of a uniquely balanced moods, which allowed
me to go through the most dangerous hardships of life, while including the lower strip of skin. Very
few things have touched my soul, and I seldom I have a passion for the best of them. This has
been my greatest fortune in the midst of freedom and abundance in which I lived, being pampered
and spoiled child, while I was' son of the family " rich and detached
from all constraints when it has no father and mother and declared
myself "boy open house.

" Under these conditions and a passionate temperament, God knows what had been of me and my
money. Still, not increase the legacy of my father, and even drop him a good chop, because not
all the time ran the same for the vile farthing; and I, though without losing sight of how useful
it is this ingredient to live at home with the men, there was born to a slave to him and had
entrenched interests that were not cheap. I liked traveling, and traveled extensively in and outside
Spain, I liked the so-called "big world" or 'high society', and frequented its halls, theaters,
field trips and even fashionable resorts, and sports, I like the Fine Arts, although considered
mainly as a luxury item, and buy paintings and sculptures in the exhibition; I liked certain
men of politics and literature, not by politicians or by literati precisely, but the resonance
of their names and the attractiveness of their conversations and frequented his treatment and
accompanied him in his circle and their feasts and gatherings in and revelry ... I even liked the
bullfighters at a distance, and distance grew the friendship of some of them.

All this, and as much more than it follows the law enforced at the end of the day was wear
expensive and produce deep, if not hide, at least moral sensitivity, even though it is a boy
like me, who aspired to be no box set of the first term, or half-inch lift on the common size of
the mass of spectators, and this, not virtue, but by the exigencies of my temperament.

It is very noteworthy that in the hobby more pronounced of all mine, the travel, seduced me much artifice
of men that the work of Nature.

As good Madrid, loved to Madrid over all earthly things, and after Madrid, similar to Spain and
abroad, the largest and liveliest capitals of the civilized world. What remained among those,
I did not care, and passed on it, to go wherever he went, as insensitive projectile that has given
whereabouts from their point of origin. Son and resident of land plain, mountains and sky saddened
me fuzzy fearfulness me.

Once one had been in the mountain capital, masking a desire to tread "the land of my ancestors" my
father would say, the temptation to spend the summer at the port began to be "elegant." Rail crossing
near the Cantabrian Mountains above the sources of the Ebro, recalled that "there" did not
know whether the right or left, had to walk my ancestral home, in a withdrawal of those mountains
mists and tight hooded black oak. And then had more resonance in my heart this much-vaunted "cry blood."
Days later, and from one of the heights overlooking the city, Santander, practical So I named, pointing
with his finger, every peak and every mountain of the great mountain range that begins at
the East Cape and Galizano Quintres (the tail of the huge reptile), and ends at West poking through
the clouds the Picos de Europa (his head).

Then, by drawing in the air with the same finger during each river of her birth in and the bottom of
his black cliffs tumble, arrived addressed to the West, and marking three stripes almost vertical,
I named the Sakha, the Nansa and Deva, and there I stopped him with thought, telling me himself,
"Along with one of the three rivers (I think the Nansa) plus above or below, must walk the site
of my elders. "And this just fell for the second time, "the cry of blood" who had in his veins. As
decoration, that I fell in love string of jagged mountains from east to west on the south
serve as grandiose setting the wonderful bay, but as habitable land!

...

Such were, peak, peak less, my personal background when I got the letter in which Celso my uncle
called me to his side, indefinitely, from the depths and Mountaineer of the Cantabrian region,
and yet, no embassy gave me unpleasant impression as might be assumed to take exactly what was said
about my way of being and feeling.

Apart from what interested me the physical and moral of my uncle,
I was not so in love My way of life, scares me the risks of radical
upheaval for some time.

Without feeling "tired" of living as he lived, because there was no drop at ride so calm and
relatively orderly as he had used me to get where he come by so many dangerous roads, began to
notice at the time certain languor spirit, inappetence certain moral certainly were not at
odds with a break homes, and much less an exchange of views and "food".

On this side, the letter My uncle could not be more timely than it was in my hands. The serious,
unexpected terrible thing for me was on the other hand, the quality of what I called it. Resolved
to change their lives for some time, God knows what paths I had taken, but certainly to me that
never would have chosen that my uncle wanted and I intended. Get there to make a visit, stop
by long, even to know view the site of my grandparents, thank goodness, but to settle it;
make the lives of the beasts among crags and brambles; acclimated she suddenly ran into the
station (rather than mid autumn), the threshold of winter Why should he see Tablanca! Water newcomer
I-Hi Paris and halfway around the world "Distinguished", with suitcases packed with 'new', both
in carrying clothes; reinstated in my "comfortable" single house ... Come on, was the height
of the impossible dream even trocar in all that and so suddenly I was offered from Tablanca.

But I could not tell my uncle these things that would hurt a lot in the situation of mind in
which he found himself, he entertained his urgent request dispatching evasive polite, claiming that
he had business, and targeting "see" without the slightest intention of comply.

Ente Thus, the vision, my way, Tablanca's house, with its mountains and wild animals and their people
and their wintry desolation, not a moment away from my eyes, because the pleadings my uncle,
more alive, came to touch me deep inside, and what might happen,
felt the need to put the case in question, which is as good as the
rules experience, as you start to compromise.

The truth is that one day, I received the second to last letter from my uncle, I very comovió
deeply, say in the matter of looking within myself why I be so insensitive
to agreed charms of nature.

Are you missing that string in my body had either not had put in hand to vibrate? For there
to find out, because it began to mortify the fear of not having it. Additionally, or is one man,
or it is not, or has or does not have guts humanity, guts to go where you go and do what others
do, or serves or served for something more useful and more juice and enjoyment to tread rugs
salons, kidney fat a Jewish innkeepers, tailors and shoemakers in
fashion shows to attend, devouring distances crammed into cages rail
docks, and spending, in short, time and money on trifles in vain and
frivolous slut.

On track the discourse on this path, I feel a force of spirit, a virility unknown to me my
love soliviantóse own good healthy boy of soul and body, and taking advantage fever, fearing that if it
was temporary, it will take my ardor to disappear I wrote to my uncle saying "here I come" and
even by attaching the date of my departure from Madrid. Among I would therefore my travel arrangements,
and I answer he gave me the necessary instructions to get home from the last railroad station.

As
I walked busy making abundant supply of warm clothing, sturdy footwear, weapons offensive and defensive
Aimard books of Töpffer and few, including Chateaubriand, have pleasant things written about mountains,
forests and wild, as if projected a tour of the center of a remote
unexplored continent, I can not answer that Missed me fever.

Less secure it when I tried to "lift" my house. Seemed that this amounted to burn my ships,
or at least to me and had consented to by to be very long my stay among the bears of Cantabria, and
the fear of this risk I leaned to leave these things as they were on good friends in Madrid that
they would look for them. At any rate, nothing is easier than solving the contrary from there,
if you ask the circumstances.

Finally, fearing that this remnant of my weaknesses is I would still brewing other air cooler
and enervating, closed the doors of all reflection speech contrary to the agreement, and boasts
Alea est, I thought, like Caesar, resolved to pass all costs for my Rubicon.

II

And the company rushed on the agreed date, one day in late October, cold and misty in the heights
of the Roman "Juliobriga." In the classic villa immediate end of my journey first and only
possible by train, I stopped half an hour away: the purely essential members to stretch and comfort
the stomach, because there was no time to lose according to the opinion
of the footman who was waiting for me at that point from the previous
day with two nag land, and chaparretes espelurciados, one to drive
me and one for bear my luggage.

Launched all well run and mid-morning, before the footman carrying
the spur the horse that was barely visible beneath the heap of my
bags and wrappers, without leaving the center of the town by a bridge
crossed the Ebro old newborn and rather short stretch down there and
after a short lie down, it was on that side as suburban population
we left back, Vimon free field, if free can which is encircled called
barriers.

From the summits of the highest fell off wisps of fog that enveloped
them, and mimicked left to dry wet fleeces in tips of the rocks and
the thickness of those secular and almost inaccessible trees, with
the mountain air blowing constantly, and so fresh, that forced me
to lift up the ears, the neck of my new raincoat.

Continuing our journey faced west, we had continually to the left, water above the river, with its fresh,
green and pompous bank vaults and canopies willow, alder and blackberry, and topábamos from
time to time with a small town, although not very happy color, spice up the monotony of the landscape.

At
the edge of the last of this series of them in the center of a small amphitheater of bare
hills in their tops, were reborbollando the copious springs emerge
from famous river, after briefly haven to orientate in the field and
gain breaths from the slopes of their own crib, escapes from there,
running around, hiding from light whenever possible, as everyone who
does evil to leave soon for his native land, bring the benefits of
their waters to foreign fields and unknown people, and pay to inattentive
during his tribute to all his wealth to whom you should not be in
a good law.

Y to faith, or my eyes deceived me much, or would work very easy and cheap to tackle the runaway
a short distance from their sources, and as punishment for his disloyalty, cast him down headlong
downhill without giving rest to give point, macerated and in foams, the wrath of its owner
and natural lord, the broad and fiery Bay of Biscay.

I should spend too much time meditating on these and other childish things, and taste the memories
awoke in me the contemplation of those crystal clear waters that have so as do history and
the imagination of poets, because the footman, saving all the usual compliments on his rude
courtesy, I noted the desirability of us to continue walk.

- Da Grim - obeying said - think of the behavior of this renegade mountain.

I had to decipher the metaphor for the footman to understand me what I wanted to say; and as
I had understood, he replied:

- Déjeli, déjeli to go in grace and, earlier, before jaz Aonda needed more than here. Pa meter
Malis buya and cause maybe, people have many Rius as estimated by the band here.

Explicóse turn the footman for me to understand, and I became convinced, with examples I became
overwhelmed mountain rivers perhaps without why or wherefore, sweeping houses bridges and mills
in the highest, and eating in the valleys the land should be watering, that may well be meritorious
what had seemed in the Ebro unpardonable.

Certainly not bad, nor explained his side have kept my harsh interesting interlocutor, in whom
only I had noticed before.

It was a fine fellow burly, broad and somewhat square shoulders, and wore blue pants with
black back half, subject to the waist by a girdle purple, and the low neck shirt, a "lastic"
or red flannel jacket.
 So they set off for the village in high spirits, through a warm, fragrant,
star-lighted evening, with no settled plan of action in mind save to do about as they liked
for the succeeding three hours. Clint Thayer had a strip of plaster across the saddle of his
nose, which gave him a strangely benign expression. Tom walked a bit stiffly and confessed
to "a peach of a shin," which probably meant something quite different from what it suggested.
Only Tim, of the three first team fellows, had emerged unscathed, and he referred to the fact
in an unpleasantly superior manner which brought from Tom Hall the remark that it was easy
enough to get through a game without any knocks if you didn't do anything! Whereupon Tim flicked
him across the cheek with an imaginary glove, the challenge was issued and accepted and the
two fought an exciting duel with rapiers--as imaginary as the glove--on the sidewalk, feinting,
thrusting, parrying, until Clint cried "The guard! The guard!" and they all raced down the
road to the nearest lamp-post, where Tim insisted on looking to his wounds. To hear him tell
it, he was as full of holes as a sieve, while, on the same authority, Tom was a dead man. Tom
denied being dead, but Tim insisted and refused to pay any heed to him all the rest of the
way to the village on the ground that, being dead, Tom had no business to talk.

But when they reached what Tim called "the heart of the city" Tom was allowed to come to life
again. The heart of the city consisted of the junction of two village streets whereon were
located the diminutive town hall, the post office, a fire house and five stores. They began
with the druggist's, ranging themselves in front of one of the two windows and pretending to
be overwhelmed with the beauty and magnificence of the goods displayed.

"What beautiful soap," exclaimed Tom. "I never saw such beautiful soap, fellows. Pink and green
and white! Looks almost good enough to wash with, doesn't it?"

"And get on to the lovely toilet set in the green velvet box," begged Tim awedly. "Scissors
and brushes and little do-funnies and----"

"I'm going to buy a bottle of that hair-grower," announced Don. "I want to raise a beard."

"Let's get a bottle and present it to Uncle Sim," suggested Clint. Uncle Sim was Mr. Simkins,
the Greek and Latin instructor, and was noticeably bald. The others chuckled and thought very
well of the suggestion until Tom discovered that the price, as stated on the label, was one
whole dollar. They had, they decided, better uses for what little money they carried. Another
day Quifa God, that the Company WNV came saying that he would stick VNOs guns, i with deerskin
VNOs faith would do VNOs Bellows: i like eftabamos time that Whosoever crow that some fobrehaz
tuviefe remedy, we parefcia well diximos that faith pufiefe by work: i remember making the
Eftrivos, i Efpuelas, Balleftas i, i of other mastheads of Iron, havia, nails, i saws, axes
i, i other tools, that such necefidad havia for it, i gave to remedy that haver any maintenance
at the time efto hiciefe faith, faith hiciefen Aute four entries, with all the horses, i People,
which pudiefen go, i to the third day, seventh Horse matafe faith, the faith qual repartiefe
including working in the Work of the boats, which eftaban i sick: faith made with entries
People, i was pofible Horses, i hafta them faith they brought four hundred bushels of Corn, although
not so strife, i quarrel with the Indians. Hecimos catch many Palmitos, to take advantage of
wool, i cover them, twisting, i aderesçandola to vfar Eftopa rather than to the boats, the
quale faith begin to do with vn folo Carpenter, that the Company havia, i so diligently pufimos,
which I started four days of Agofto, Twenty Day of the Month for September were finished five
ships, of twenty i two elbows each vna, paintable with the Palmitos Eftopas, i breamoslas with some
tar pitch, that vn hico Greek, called Don Theodore, VNOs Pines: i of clothing mifma Palmitos,
i tails, manes of the horses i, hecimos strings, i Xarcias: i of nueftras Camif, Candles; i
of the Sabines there havia, hecimos Rowers, we parefciò was menefter; i just was on Earth where
we havia puefto nueftros sins, that we could work with large mui Laftre stones to find, i Ancles
of the boats, or all of it vifto havia no. Defollamos also the legs of the stallion i We tan the
hides of them for to Boots, which llevafemos Water. In time, some were gathering EFTE Marifco by
corners, i entries Mar, where the Indians on the two occasions that gave them, they killed
Ten men, à vifta of Real, so that pudiefemos focorrer, And when they find, from à part pafados
with arrows, although some had good weapons, no refiftir BAFTA, to no faith efto hiciefe, with
arrows so deftreça, i force (as I said above) à i said, i swear nueftros Pilots, defde the Bay,
which pufimos Name Cruz, hafta here, i traveled two hundred eighty leagues, little more, or less:
in all we saw Earth efta Sierra, and we learned of it in any way: i before we embarcafemos, so
the The Indians killed us, faith more than forty men died of disease, i hunger. A i twenty two
days of the Month for September had eaten faith Horses that WNV is folo; i EFTE efta day we embarked
on order. That the Governor's Barca i were forty nine Men. In another, he gave the counter,
i Comifario, would many others. The third gave the Captain Alonfo of Caftillo, i Andrès Dorantes,
eight men with forty i, i gave another two Captains, Tellez called to faith, i Peñalofa, with
forty men i Fiete. The other gave the Overseer, i i to me with forty-nine men, i defpues of the
Baftimentos board, i clothing, it is not the boats over vn moans out of the water board: i beyond
the efto, we were so tight, we could not move, i so can the necefidad, we venture to go hico efta
so, i get into so trabajofa Mar vna, i finally have news of Art scored any of which there were.

CAP.
IX. As we left Bay of Horses.

That Bay of where we started, has named the Bay of Horses, i walked for days Fiete those Lighters,
entered the water hafta tape, Final order to see any crow's COFTA; i after they reached an
island that eftaba near Earth. My Barca went ahead, i saw it coming five canoes of Indians, the
defampararon quale i dexaron to us hands, seeing that we were going
to them: the other boats pafaron later, i gave in VNAs Mifma CAFAS
the island, where we found many beverages, eggs i them that eftaban
feces, mui was great remedy for necefidad we had.

Defpues's taken, pafamos forward i two leagues away pafamos Eftrecho
vn that the island toward the Earth, the call qual Sant Miguel, haver
falido in day for the fu; i falidos, we reach the COFTA, where with
the five canoes, which I havia taken the Indians, remediate some of
the boats, making sills of them, i added, so that two feet of board
fubieron fobre Water; i with efto walking around by luengo of COFTA,
via del Rio de Palmas, CREFC each day the fed, i hunger because mui
Baftimentos were few, i would mui done, i Water faith has just because
the boots, which hecimos the legs of the horses, then they were rotten
i order no avail: sometimes entered by Ancona, i BAIAS, which came
much Earth in all baxas find, i peligrofas: i walked by them thirty
amphi days, where sometimes Hallab Pefcadores Indians, poor people,
i mammals.

After ia of eftos thirty days, that was necefidad eftremo Water, near COFTA iend, vna Canoe come
paired against vna night, i like the saw, efperamos that llegafe, i do it not Quifa face: and
though the call, not Quifa Bolvar, or wait, i per fer night, not Feguer, i fuimonos nueftra
via; Quando amanefciò, vna saw small island, i went to her, to see fi should find water, but
nueftro work was in vain, because the havia. Eftando there Furter, Storm vna mui took us great,
because we stopped feis days, so that Flair à OFAF the Sea: i like havia five days, did not
drink, the Fed was so great that we pufo in necefidad falada drinking water, i some faith defatentaron
it so much that we killed fupitameete faith five men. Afi efto story short, because i do not
think it's particularly necefidad miferias count, i work in that we were, because where eftabamos
confiderando, i efperança remedy the lack of which had, each WNV can Penfed much that there
pafaria; i saw the Fed as crefcia, Water i kill us, but the Storm was not cefada, we agree
Nueftro entrust to God the Lord, before i venture to the danger of the Sea, which efperar the
certin death, the Fed gave us, i afi falimos the track, where havia vifto Canoe, the night that
we came there, i EFTE day we were often flooded, i so lost, that none huvo, not tuviefe by certain
death. Plug to Nueftro Lord in the fuel necefidades moftrar maiores fu favor, which they returned
vna puefta Punta del Sol, Earth to do, where we found many Bonanca, i coat. À nofotros left many
Canoas i Indians, which they came, we talked, i wait so loving, faith they returned. Was Great
people, well i difpuefta, i did not bring arrows, or bows. I went Figuer Nofotros fus hafta
CAFAS that there eftaban close to the language of Water, Land i missed it: i front of the CAFAS
find many pitchers of water, i too much of PEFC guif, i the Lord of those lands to the Governor
ofrefciò everything, taking it i config, it was fu Cafa. The CAFAS of eftos were efter, that
what were eftantes parefciò; i defpues that Cafa enter the Cacique, we were very PEFC nofotros
i gave him the Corn, he had, i ate it nueftra PREFERENCES, i asked us again, i gave it faith,
I gave the Governor many Refcates, the qual, eftando with Cacique in Cafa fu, half an hour of
the night, fupitamente Indians were in nofotros, i where mui eftaban ill, lying in the COFTA,
i rushed CAFA also the Chief, where the Governor eftaba, i was injured in the stone VNA roftro.
Those who found faith there, seized the Chief: but as eftaban Suios so close foltòfeles, i dexòles
in the hands Blanket Marthas vna Cebelinas that fon the best ones I believe that faith in the world
could find, i have the odor vn, not fine parefce Ambar, i Musk, i reach as far away, that too much
faith fiente: others saw there, but no were such as eftas. Those who found faith there, seeing
the wounded governor, put him in la Barca, i hecimos recogiefe faith that with more people
all boats fus, i hafta stay fifty on Earth, for against the Indians, who attacked us three
times that night i with such impetus that made us increasingly delayed more than a stone's
throw vn: none huvo of nofotros, quedafe not hurt, i I was on the face, i found little faith fi
and Arrows, eftuvieran most profitable of them, so we did a lot of damage culprit. The faith once
vltima pufieron Captains Dorantes in ambush, i Peñalofa, i Tellez, with fifteen men, i gave
them by efpaldas, so i made them flee, we dexaron. The next morning I I broke more than thirty
canoes, which took us to North vn to, that for all eftàr huvimos day of very cold there, so OFAR
enter the Sea, by the great storm havia therein. Efto pafado, we turn to board, I sailed three
days: i like havia taken little water, i the Vafos we had to carry were mui afimifmo few tornadoes
fall into the first necefidad; i Figuer nueftra via, for vn we efter, i eftando in him, we saw
vna Canoe Indians: as we call them, came to nofotros; i the Governor, Cuia à Barca havia arrived,
he entreated her water, i ofrefcieron them with them when Dief the traxefen; i vn Chriftiano
Greek, called Doroteo Teodoro (whose faith hico above mentioned) he said, he wanted to go with them:
the Governor, i tried other faith what eftorvar much, i never they could, all CAFOs fine wanted to
go with them: afi faith was, i vn Configo Black bears, i dexaron Indian hostage two fu Company;
i à Indian night they returned, i traxeronnos Water Vafos nueftros end, i do not they brought
the Chriftianos, which led havia i which havia forsaken for hostages, as others spoke, quifieronfe
take to water. But those who detained eftaban la Barca, i amphi faith were huiendo Canoe Indians,
i dexaron us confufos mui, i Trift by haver lost those two Chriftianos.

CAP. X. In Melee, they gave us Indians.

When morning came, came to nofotros many Indian Canoes, asking the two Companions Barca in
the havia been for hostages. The Governor said he, daria faith, with which traxefen Chriftianos
the two, which led havia. People came to efta five or feis Gentlemen, i us People parefciò fer
rather difpuefta, i of more authority, I show that there havia hafta vifto, though not as big
as the others, who told havemos. They wore their hair fueltos, i mui long, covered with blankets
i Mart, the strongest of that back havia taken, i some of them made by mui eftraña way, because
in them havia VNOs Laços of tawny fur VNAs work that parefcian mui well. Rogabannos, fuefemos
with us them, i would give us the Chriftianos, i water, many mastheads i: i contino flocked fobre
nofotros many canoes, trying to make the mouth of that post: i afi by efto as because the
Earth was mui eftàr peligrofa for it, we falimos à la Mar, where eftuvimos hafta noon with
them. And we do not give the Chriftianos quifiefen, i for ETFE refpeto nofotros Dief were not
the Indians, throwing stones començaronnos Hondas, i Varas mueftras arrows, although we did not
see them all fine three or four bows.

Eftando in efta race, the wind refrefcò, i them faith they returned, we dexaron i: i afi sail
that day, hafta Vifperas time that my Barca, who went before, defcubriò vna tip, which Earth to, i the
other end via faith vn mui Rio Grande Isleta i vna than to the tip, I did Furger, by efperar
the other boats. The Governor Quifa not arrive, put faith before by vna mui Baia near there,
where many islets havia, i got together there, i defde the Mar Freshwater take, because the Rio
entered the Sea of ​​avenue: i for some corn Tofta what they had,
in that the havia two days we ate it raw, we miss on that island,
but as we did not find firewood, we agreed to go to Rio, which eftaba
behind the tip, vna League alli: i walking away, such was the power,
we do not in any way come dexaba before us away from the Earth; i
nofotros, working, i stubborn to take it.

North, who came Earth, began to CREFC So that got us into the Ocean,
so that nofotros pudiefemos make another crow: i half a league we
were stuck in it, backgrounds, i find that with were unsuccessful
in taking thirty fathoms deep, i could not understand, fi CAUF that
the current was pudiefemos not take, i afi sailed two days, still
working to make Earth: i to out of them, vn shortly before the Sun
faliefe, we saw many chimneys by COFTA: i work to get there, we found
ourselves in three fathoms of water, i per fer night, Ofama not take
Earth vifto havia because as many chimneys, we believed that we could
recrefcer faith any danger, nofotros order to see, by much obfcuridad,
havia what to do: i determined by efto of efperar morning, i like
amanefciò every Barca faith itself is lost from the others: I find
myself in thirty fathoms; i Figuer my voyage, à Vifperas when I saw
two boats, i like I went to them, I saw that the first to arrive was
the Governor of the qual I wonder, that parefcia me that we should do?

Yo I said to him, which was to recover that Barca, who went before, i in no way dexafe, i that
all three boats together, figuiefemos nueftro way where God quifiefe carry. The refpondiò me, that
this faith could not do, because Barca mui was tucked into the sea, and he wanted to take the
Earth, that fi i loved her I Feguer, which hiciefe than my Barca tomafen Rowers, i trabajafen, because
of brace force of faith havia take the earth: i efto vn aconfejaba him Captain, which had
Configo, whose faith called Pantoja, telling him that fi that day did not take the Earth, which
would not take other feis, i ETFE necefario time was starving. Fu vifta I will take my Remo,
i did it mifmo all in my Barca eftaban for it, i hafta CAFI bogamos puefto the Sun: but as the
Governor had the most fana, i brunt People, that among all havia in any way you were unsuccessful
in Feguer, or hold her. I, as I saw efto, pedile that so that we can Feguer, vn Dief me out
Barca fu: i refpondiò He'd do them a little, that night pudiefen Folos fi get Ground. Yo I said
to him that it via the little pofibilidad, in order havia nofotros Feguer, i do what havia
commanded dixefe me, that was what I ordered that hiciefe?
 If the
engine and hose-cart and two carriages bearing members of the volunteer fire department had
been slow in arriving, at least the fire-fighters got to work expeditiously and with surprisingly
little confusion. Don, pausing for a moment in his labour of passing buckets to look down,
decided that Brimfield had no cause to be ashamed of its department. In a jiffy the hose-cart
was rattling across the yard--and, incidentally, some flower beds--in the direction of the
pond behind the house, and a moment or two later the engine was pumping vigorously and a fine
stream of water was wetting down the roofs of the threatened structures. Axes bit into charring
timbers, sparks flew, enthusiastic, rubber-clad firemen dashed here and there, shouting loudly,
the audience cheered and the worst was over!

With the collapse of the remaining section of barn wall the danger from sparks was past, and,
emptying one final bucket, Mr. Brady, followed by a very wet, very tired and very warm Don,
crept back through the skylight and joined the others below. Mr. Brady rescued his coat, led
the way to the kitchen pump and drank long and copiously, setting an example enthusiastically
emulated by the boys. Tim declared that if he drank as much as he wanted there wouldn't be
enough water left to put out the fire with!

"Well, boys," said Mr. Brady, finally setting down the dipper and drawing a long breath, "I
guess we did pretty well for amateurs, eh? I don't know whether we get any thanks, for I've
a suspicion that Corrigan would have been just as pleased if everything had gone. From the
way he talked when we got here I guess he wanted the insurance more'n he did the buildings!"
Mr. Brady chuckled. "Well, we put one over on him in that case, eh? Want to stick around much
longer? I guess most of the fun's over; unless they're going to serve some of that roast pig!"

"They got the pigs out," chuckled Tim. "They were running around here awhile ago like crazy.
About twenty of them, big and little, squealing and getting between people's feet. Those pigs
had the time of their lives!"

"Well, then, suppose we start along home?" said Mr. Brady. "You fellows ready?"

They agreed that they were. The remains of the barn were already blackening, and, while the
firemen, evidently determined to make the most of the occasion, were still swinging axes and
pouring water on the already extinguished and well-soaked buildings, there was no danger of
further trouble. Mr. Corrigan, surrounded by a group of sympathetic neighbours, was cataloguing
his losses and Mr. Brady called to him as they passed.

"Good-night, Corrigan! Sorry for you, but you've saved your house anyway!"

"Yes, sir, Mr. Brady. I'm greatly obliged to you, sir, and them young fellers, too. It's a
bit of a loss, sir, but there's pretty good insurance."

"That's fortunate. Good-night!" Mr. Brady chuckled as they went on into the darkness of the
orchard. 

And recovering his manly bearing of Amazon, confident, returned to the bank, indicating Rafael
to sit at the other end.

- What a night! ... I'm drunk without drinking. The orange I get drunk with his breath. An hour ago
I felt that my room was spinning, that I was the head, the bed seemed a ship in full storm.
I have lost as usual and here I have you until the can sleep more
than the beauty of the night.

He spoke languidly, abandoned, with trembling voice and tremors of the chest as if the anguish
that perfume, compressing its powerful vitality.

Rafael saw a short distance, white, sculpted, wrapped in haik they are covered when moving
from the bed bath, the first thing he found to hand down the garden.

And under the fine wool, delatábanse the warm curves with the scent of meat healthy, strong and
clean, through the fabric, blended with orange virgin breath.

- I was afraid to see him - he continued, his voice slow and dull,
- a little afraid of nothing, the natural surprise, however, was thinking
of you at that time.

I confess. I said, 'What will that crazy at this hour? ", And suddenly you are presented here
as a ghost. You could not sleep excited by that environment, and
has come to tempt you back luck with the same hope that led him sometimes.

He

spoke without his usual irony, softly, as if conversing with herself. Rested with abandoned
his bust in the back of the bench with one arm crossed behind his head.

Rafael tried to speak again of his repentance, that desire to kneel before the house to ask for forgiveness
mutely we slept above, but Leonora interrupted him again.

- Shut up you and speaks very loud and could hear him. My aunt sleeps on the other side of the house
has light sleeper ... Also, do not want to hear any of remorse and
forgiveness.

That reminds me the shame of that morning. Can not tell you enough that I allowed to be here?
Of all I remember ... Shut up, Rafael! Best savored in silence the beauty of night, it seems that
the field speaks to the moon and the echo of his words are these waves of perfume that surround
us.

And he was silent and motionless with eyes on high, reflected in their
corneas light the moon with a tearful moisture.

Rafael saw occasionally shake your body with mysterious tremors, extended his arms after crossing
the golden hair with stretched that crunched the white envelope, putting stress voluptuous
all its members. Seemed upset, sick, her panting breath taking at times the rattling of sobbing,
bowed head on his shoulder and vented his chest with endless sighs.

The young man obediently silent, fearing that the memory of his courage emerged once again awkward
in conversation, but are not to shorten the distance separating them in the bank. She as though
divining the thought of Rafael, spoke slowly when the abnormal state was.

- I do not know why I have this night. I mourn not know why, I feel in me an inexplicable happiness,
and yet prorrumpiría into tears. It is the spring that damned perfume is a whip for my nerves.
I think I'm crazy ... Spring! My best friend and no I owe more than bitterness! If I did something
crazy in my life, she has been the minister ... It's youth reborn in us, the madness that makes
the annual visit ... And I, true provided to it, adoring, awaiting
his arrival about a year in this corner to see appear in his best
suit, crowned with orange blossoms like a virgin, a virgin evil that
pays I love to shock!

... Look what has brought me. I do not know what sick: sick excess life pushes me do not know where,
probably where I should not go ... If it were not for my force will fall lying on the bank. I'm
like the drunk who make efforts to stay on your lap and go straight.

It was true, she was sick. Each time his eyes were more tearful, his body trembling, seemed to shrink,
collapse on itself, like life, like a dilated fluid, seek escape from every pore.

He paused again for a long time to look vague and lost in the infinite,
and suddenly muttered and answering their memories:

- No one else
knew this.

He knew everything, no one felt like the mystery of the hidden forces Nature, and sang like
a god of spring. Hans told me many times and it's true.

He added, without turning his head, his voice wanders from a sleepwalker.

-
Rafael, you do not know The Valkyrie, right?; Not heard the song of
spring.

No, the deputy did not know what he was asked. And Leonora, always with eyes on the moon the
neck resting on his arms, escaping pearly, strong, round sleeves falls, spoke slowly, evoking
memories, watching before his imagination the scene of intense poetry, the glorification and
the triumph of nature and love.

Hunding's hut, barbaric and gruesome trophies with wild fur, revealing the brutal existence of
man scarcely possessed the world in perpetual struggle with the elements and beasts. The eternal
fugitive, forgotten of his father, Sigmund, who himself is given by name Despair, years and
years wandering through the forests, harassed by wild beasts, create
a beast you saw him covered with skins, rests at the foot of the giant
order Ash holding the cabin, and drinking mead in the horn that offers
the sweet Sieglinde known for the first time the existence of love,
looking into their innocent eyes.

The husband, Hunding, the fierce hunter, he bids farewell dinner at the end of the rustic "Your
father was the Wolf and I am of the race of hunters. Until the day my house protects you you
are my guest, but so the sun goes back, you are my enemy and fight ... Woman preparing the
drink of the night and let's go to bed. "

And the exile left alone by the fire, thinking of his immense loneliness. No home, no family,
or the miraculous sword promised her father the Wolf. And when the day break, the cottage that
shelters him, the enemy will have to kill him. The memory of the woman who went out their
thirst, the sparkle of those candid eyes, wrapping him in a look of pity and love, the only
thing holding you ... She arrives, after leaving the fierce companion
asleep.

Le ash teaches the hilt of the sword that sank the god Wotan, no one can pluck; obey only the hand
of the one for whom God has destined.

And while she speaks the wandering savage contemplates ecstatic, like a white apparition reveals
the existence in the world more than the strength and struggle. It is love that speech. Slowly
approaches, the hugs, close to his chest, and the door opens impelled by the breeze and the
forest appears green and fragrant in the light of the moon, spring
night radiant and glorious, wrapped in its atmosphere of rumors and
perfumes.

Sieglinde is shaken, "Who has come?" Nobody, however, a new being just penetrate in the cabin,
lowering the door with his knee invisible. And Siegmund, with inspiration love, guess who is
the newcomer. "Spring is laughing in the air around of your hair. No more storms, ended the
dark loneliness.

The bright month Mayo, a young warrior in armor of flowers presented to hunt down the black winter,
and through the joyous celebration of nature, searching for her lover: Youth. Tonight when you first see
is the endless wedding night of Spring and Youth.

And Leonora shivered, listening to the murmur of the house orchestra to accompany the song of tenderness
inspired by the Spring, the vibration of the jungle waving their
arms numb for the winter, when receiving the stream of new blood and
life, and in the midst of the shining square, believed to contemplate
Siegmund and Sieglinde, narrowing in eternal embrace, forming one
body and when viewed from the racks, dressed in Valkyrie, waiting
time to awaken the enthusiasm of the audience with his scream Hojotoho!

I

felt the same sadness Siegmund Hunding's hut. Without family, homeless, wandering, looking for
something to lean on, something to shake gently, and unaware of their
movements, it was she who approached Rafael, which had a hand in his.

She was sick. She sobbed quietly pleading with a girl shyly, as if the intense artistic poetry
of that memory would have broken the weak of will rest had remained
in control of herself.

- Do not know what I have ... I'm dying ...
but with a death so sweet!

So sweet ... What Rafael madness! Having seen what reckless tonight! ...

And covered with a pleading look, as if asking pardon, majestic night, in which silence seemed
to shake the vibration of a new life.

Sensed that something was going to die there.

Will lay lifeless on the floor, powerless defense.

Rafael also felt upset.

I had it on his chest, one hand in hers; loose, unconscious, unwilling, incapable of resistance,
however, did not feel the heat brutal that morning, did not dare move for fear of seeming bold
and barbaric. We invaded a great tenderness, only ambition was to spend hours and hours in contact
with that body, hugging strongly, as if to open and lock into the woman he adored, as the
case save the jewel.

The spoke mysteriously in his ear, not knowing about what he said, whispering in her pink ear
caressing words that seemed such other and shook him to say them
with chills of passion.

Yes, it was true, that night was the dream of the great artist: the wedding night the arrogant
May in his armor of flowers and the smiling youth. The field was voluptuously shaking under the
moonlight, and they, young, feeling the flutter of love around her hair shaken to the roots,
what they were doing there, blind to the beauty of the night, deaf
the infinite kiss echoing around their heads?

- Lenore Lenore - moaned
Rafael.

He had slipped the bank: it was almost without knowing it, kneeling before her, clung to their
advanced hands and face, not daring to get into your mouth.

And she, throwing back the breast with faint, faintly murmured with a whimper as a child:

- No, no: I would hurt ... I feel like dying.

- Two in one - still young, a hollow exultation, - together forever looking in the eyes as in
a mirror, repeating their names with the singing of a stanza; die
and when necessary to escape the gossip of the people.

What mattered to them the world and its opinions?

And Leonora, increasingly weak, still refused.

- No, no ... I have
shame.

A feeling I can not define.

And it was. The sweet nature rattle with a kiss of spring, the intense perfume Flower emblem of
virginity, transfigured.

The mad, the rugged adventurer history into pleasure at the push
of violence, was first blush in the arms of a man experiencing the
alarm contact virgin male, same excitement that drives the girl to
be delivered between shivers of fear of unknown.

Nature, the intoxicating crush their resistance, seemed to create
a virginity strange in that weary body for pleasure.

- God!

What is this? ... What's Up? It must be love, a new love I did not know ... Rafael ... Rafael
mine!

And crying softly, her hands pressed between the youth's head, pressed
her mouth against yours, after throwing back, with wild eyes, crazed
by the contact lips.

Closely embraced had fallen on the bank. The garden served as their camera rumoroso Bridal: Moon
left them in discreet shadows.

- Finally! - She whispered - to achieve
your desire.

Yours ... but forever. I wanted before, but I love you now ... For the first time I say this with
all my heart.

Rafael, driven by that, he had a fit of generosity.

I needed to give everything.

- Yes, mine forever.

Fear not surrender, make me happy ... I'll marry you.

In her drunkenness the artist saw his eyes opened with surprise, how passing through his mouth
a sad smile.

- Marry! And for what? ... That is for others. Much love me, my child, as you love me ... I
just believe in Love

V

- But baby, when we reached the island?

... Distresses me to be in the bank, away from you, seeing these little arms of mine, how to give
tired from rowing. A kiss! ... But angry! That will refresh you.

And standing up, Leonora took two steps on the white boat, give a
strong swing, and kissed her several times to Rafael, who advocated
dropping the oars, laughing.

- Crazy!

That will never arrive. With breaks like these do little way, and I've promised to take you to the
island.

Again bending over the oars rowing in the middle of the river, shaking
waters reflecting the moon, as if she wanted the trees on both sides
might enjoy equally in the loving contemplation of escape.

It had been a whim of the artist, a desire repeated during his visits
to the Blue House, a times in the afternoon in the presence of Dona
Pepa and the maid, and every night through the gap in the fence, where
already waiting in the dark bare arms of Leonora, that fresh mouth
clung to his furiously as if trying to absorb it.

Took more than a week of sweet intoxication. He had never believed that life was so beautiful.
He lived in a sweet unconsciousness. The city did not exist for him. We looked like ghosts all
those around him, his mother and Remedios were invisible beings whose words answer without bothering
to lift his head to see them.

He spent his days troubled by the passionate desire to arrive early
evening, which ended the family dinner to go to his room and leave
after cautiously, just stayed silent the house, with quiet sleep.

Do not guess the surprise that this conduct must occur in his mother, seeing her room closed all
morning while he was sleeping with the fatigue of a night of love. Paid no attention to the face Dona
Bernarda grim, tired of asking if I was sick of hearing the same answer:

- No, Mama, is that I work at night, an important study.

The mother had to do not to cry, lie! for two nights had gone to her
room finding the door locked and dark the keyhole.

His son was not there. Le watched, and every day before dawn, I heard him open the door gently
the street and climbed the stairs quietly, perhaps barefoot.

The austere silent lady silent piling outrage, complaining to Don
Andrés of that crazy offshoot of upsetting their plans.

The counselor watched the young through its many devotees who followed him cautiously through
the night until the blue house.

- What a scandal! - Dona Bernarda exclaimed .-- At night too!

This will eventually bring home! But is that Dona Pepita silly not see any of this?

And Rafael, insensitive to the environment of anger that formed around
him, without deigning even address a word, a look at the poor Remedios,
head down like a goat sulking, seemed mourn the memory of those trips
under the supervision of rejoicing Dona Bernarda.

The deputy did not see anything out of the blue house, blinded him
happiness. The only thing that bothered him was having to hide, not
to make public her happiness so that they know it all fans.

Transported
wanted a blow to the Roman decadence, where the love of the powerful
taking the majesty of public worship.

- What do I care what gossip!
- Said one night in the bedroom where up Leonora carefully every night
.-- See if you want, you would like to see all these people by lending
worship. I wish I could take you in my arms and you're almost naked,
and at midday show up on the bridge of the suburb before the crowd
spellbound by your beauty: 'Am I or not I am your boss? Well if I
am, worship this woman who is my soul and without which I can not
live. The affection you hold me me, divide it to also be in it. "
And I would, to if possible, as I say.

- Crazy ... adorable baby
- she said covering her face with kisses, stroking his black beard
with its soft mouth and chilling.

And in one of these interviews,
where the words were interrupted with sudden impulses passion and
phrases were cut with a jump of beast in heat, choking from the mouths
breasts together and oppressed by the hug was when Leonora said his
whim.

- I'm drowning here. " Caress me sick within four walls, beside
a bed vulgar, as a lover of momentary whim. This is unworthy of you.
You're the love that came for in the most beautiful of nights. Outdoors
I like, love is fresh and clean in the middle the field. See you more
beautiful and I feel younger.

And recalling expeditions down the
river so many times he had reported on his conversations Rafael friend,
that islet with its curtains of reeds, the willows bending over the
water and the nightingale singing unseen, he asked, anxiously:

-
What night are you taking me? It's a fad, a craze, but what there
is Love, but for make merry nonsense that sweeten life? ... Take me
on your boat, it led you here we move to the enchanted island, we
will love all night outdoors.

Tim leaned back in his chair and laced his fingers together behind his head. "Every way, Donald.
I'm telling you this for your own good, dearie. I thought you realised it, though, or I'd have
said it before. You start slow and you don't get up steam until the play's about over. If it
wasn't that you're an indecently strong chap we'd get the jump on you every time. We do, as
it is, only it doesn't do us much good, because you're a tough chap to move. Now you think
it over, Don. See if you can't ginger up a bit. Bet you anything that when you do Robey'll
have you yanked off that second team in no time at all!"

"I'm glad you told me," said Don, after a moment's consideration. "I thought I was doing pretty
well this fall. I know well enough it was being all-fired slow that kept me off the first last
fall, but I surely thought I'd picked up a whole lot of speed. I'll have to go back to practising
starts, I guess."

"Oh, never mind the kindergarten stuff, old man. Just put more jump into it. You'll find you
can do it all right, now that you know about it. Why, I'll bet you'll be performing like a
Jack rabbit before the season's over!"

"Like a jackass, more likely," responded Don ruefully.

"No, for a jackass, dearie, doesn't take a hint."

"Well, but I don't believe I can play any faster, Tim. If I could I'd be doing it, wouldn't
I? Just naturally, I mean."

"Never mind the conundrums, Don. You try it. If you do I'll be willing to guarantee you a place
on the first."

"I guess your guarantee wouldn't cut much ice," objected Don, with a laugh. Then he sobered
and added: "Funny game, though, me coaching Kirkwell and Merton and Goodhugh. Looks as if I
was the one needed the coaching."

"Sure. We all need it. No one's perfect, Don, although, without boasting, I will say that I
come pretty near it."

"You come pretty near being a perfect chump, if that's what you mean."

Tim shook his head. "It isn't at all what I mean. Now cut out the artless prattle and let me
find some sense in this history stuff--if there is any!"

CHAPTER IX

THE WIDTH OF A FINGER

AT chapel the next morning Mr. Fernald, the principal, after the usual announcements had been
made, lifted a newspaper from the table at his side and ran his eyes over an item there. "I
have here," he said, "a copy of this week's Brimfield Times, which tells of an incident of
which I had not learned. In telling of a fire on Saturday night last which destroyed a barn
and damaged other buildings on the farm of Mr. William Corrigan, some three miles from the
village, the Times makes mention of the valuable assistance of a Mr. Grover Brady and four
boys of this school. According to the Times, Mr. Brady and four boys dashed to the scene in
a high-powered automobile, organised a bucket brigade and saved"--Mr. Fernald consulted his
authority again--"saved the dwelling house from the devouring element. 

The name of Dona Bernarda, under terrible representation, falling in the middle of the conversation became
serious at all in the circle.

- The stranger - Rafael said he wanted to divert the conversation
- is that they all agree now the doctor's daughter.

It's been years and years, without anyone saying his name.

- These are things here - said the old man .-- The of your age you had not seen, and your parents,
who knew the doctor and his daughter, have always been careful not to get Talk to this woman, who,
as your mother says is the disgrace of Alcira. Occasionally he knew something, a story that Cupid
caught in newspapers and spread out there, a revelation the silly Dona Pepa, which had the curious
glories of his niece abroad; many lies that were invented is not known where or by whom. All
this was hidden as fire under the ashes. If that girl is not back to Alcira had happened ...
nothing. But it has come, and suddenly everyone is talking about it, and it is they know or think
they know their lives disgorge the news for many years. Would you believe me, my children? I've seen
slut always realize it, but here lies a lot ... much, is up a bad witness the same divine word,
and not as much as they say ... If one were to ignore! Was not Poor
Don Ramon, the greatest man on this earth?

What things said about him? ...

And no more was said about the daughter of Dr. Moreno. Rafael knew he desired. Woman was born a
short distance from where he was born, his childhood had been almost
together and yet, in the first game of his life, he had felt separated
from the chill of the unknown.

This separation would increase. She made fun of the city, lived outside its influence, in the
countryside, contempt, and the city would not go to it.

How close? ... Rafael was tempted that evening, walking aimlessly through the streets to look
at her shop to the barber Cupido. The cheerful bohemian Alcira was the only one that entered his home.
But fear stopped backbiting tongue.

At the respectability of a party man he hated to get into that barbershop papered with sheets
of the Mutiny and presided by the portrait of Pi y Maragall. How would you justify your presence
there, which had never entered? How explain to Cupido interest in this woman, without exposed
to the same night the entire city knew?

He passed twice against the striped barber crystals, not daring to
put hand on the knob, and finally take the field, following the riverbank
slowly staring at that blue farmhouse, which had never drawn his attention,
and now seemed the most beautiful paradise of orange dilated.

For among the trees I saw the balcony of the house and with it a woman unfolding bright clothes,
fine colors and skirts that shake to clear the folds of oppression in the suitcases.

It was the Italian maid, red-haired Beppa that he had seen the previous afternoon, accompanying his
wife.

He thought the girl looked at him, recognized him through the foliage, despite the distance, and
feeling a sudden fear of kid who is caught in full prank again back and walked rapidly towards
the city, after experiencing some satisfaction, as if something had advance knowledge of Leonora,
only arriving near the blue house.

V

The first rains of winter fell with emphasis on the region. The gray sky, loaded clouds, seemed
to touch the treetops. The red earth of the fields darkened under the continuous downpour, the
deep, winding roads between the fences and hedges of orchards, convertíanse
in ravines; paralizábase laborious life and poor crop orange, sad
and tearful, encogíanse under the deluge, such as protesting in this
change jump in the country of the sun.

The river rose. The red water and gelatinous, like liquid clay, crashed into the pillars bridges,
boiling and removed piles of dry leaves.

The inhabitants of the houses the immediate Júcar with anxious eyes followed the river bank and
planted in cane and sticks to convince higher level.

- Munta ?...-- asked those living in the interior.

- Yes, Munt - answered the riverside.

The water rose slowly, threatening the city boldly had taken root in the middle its course.

But
despite the danger, residents were not alarmed beyond a curiosity. Nobody felt fear or leaving
their home for the bridges, looking for shelter on land. Why Why? That would be like all flood.
It was inevitable from time to time the wrath of the river: up had
to thank her, because it was unexpected fun, a nice suspension work.

The trust was quiet Moorish people. The same was done in time their parents, their grandparents
and great grandparents, and was never the population: some houses while more. What was to
occur now the disaster? ... The river was a friend of Alcira: were kept the affection of a
married couple, kisses and slaps, it took six or seven centuries
of common life.

In addition, for the little people, was there the father San Bernardo, as powerful as God in everything
he touched to Alcira, and only able to tame this monster developed its undulating waves red
rings.

It rained day and night, and yet the city, for its animation, seemed to party. The boys, emancipated
from school for bad weather, the bridges were throwing branches to assess the current speed,
or descending on the streets surrounding the river to post signs,
waiting for the water surface, widening, came to them.

People in the coffee ran down the streets away from the big forwards, whose channels spewed
jets as broken arms, and after looking at the river, under the shelter
of their weak umbrella became too self-satisfied, stopping at every
house to give his opinion about the flood.

Was a difference of opinion, discussions and various prophecies burning, waving City one end
to another with the warmth and vehemence of the southern blood.

Was disputed, cooled friends, if in half an hour the river had risen four fingers or one, and
was shortly to come to blows over whether the flood was more important than the last.

Meanwhile the sky, crying incessantly for its many eyes, the swelling river of roaring anger,
with their red tongues licking the entrance to the lower streets, asomábase the gardens of the
banks and penetrated by orange groves, after opening holes in the hedges and the walls.

The only concern was whether it would rain while in the mountains of Cuenca. If down water there,
the flood would be serious. And the curious made efforts at dusk by guessing the color of the
water, fearing see blackish, a sure sign that came from the other province.

Lasted about two days the deluge. Night fell and the darkness sounded gloomy roaring river. Reflejábanse
on its black surface, like restless fish fire, riverside house lights
and lanterns from prying examining the banks.

On the streets low water, when extended, seeped under the doors.

Women and the boys refugiábanse in barns, and men with bare legs, splashed in the muddy liquid,
thereby excluding farm implements, or pulling a donkey receding scared,
getting more and more water.

All those people from the suburbs, when viewed in the darkness of the night, the house flooded mocking
lost his temper that had boasted during the day. The fear of what dominated the sought supernatural
protection to child anxiety, a strong power to tackle the danger. Perhaps this flood was the
final. Who knows if they would be for them perish with the last remains of the city? ... The
terrified women screamed upon seeing the miserable streets turned into canals.

- The San Bernat stop! ... You swallow to stop St. Bernard!

The men looked anxiously. No one could fix this as the glorious pattern. It was time to look
for, what other times that it might be the miracle.

Had to go to city hall: gentlemen force viso, unbelieving people something
to bring forth out the saint to console the poor.

At one point there was a large army.

Out of the gloomy streets, splashing in the water like frogs, shouting their war cry: St. Bernard!
St. Bernard! Men arms and legs rolled up, or nudity, no other concession to modesty that belt,
that garment that never comes off the skin of the peasant, women
skirts at the top, sinking in the mud your toast and lean legs of
beasts of burden, all wet from head to feet, with clothes hanging
limp and stuck to the meat.

In front of the huge group were a few guys went to wind axes, whose roaring flames curled in the rain
Fire walking their reflections on the vociferous crowd.

- St. Bernard! St. Bernard! ... Viva San Bernat stop!

Passed through the streets with noise and violence of a mutinous people, under the continuous drip
from the sky and jets from the eaves.

Abríanse doors and windows, new binding delusional voices to shout, and at each intersection,
a crowd thickened the black avalanche.

Iban all the council, angry and menacing like something that could
deny request, and the crowd could be seen guns, old guns and old guns
huge saddle as muskets.

It seemed that the river would be killed.

The mayor, with all of the council, was waiting at the doorstep of the city. They come running, followed
by marshals and people of the round, to cope with the riot.

- What voleu? - The mayor asked the crowd.

What was to love! The only remedy, salvation, lead to omnipotent saint to the edge the river to
tuck you fear your presence, what they were doing centuries their
ancestors, thanks to which the city still existed.

Some neighbors who were poorly regarded by people in the field because of their unbelief, smiling.
Would not it be better to leave the houses near the river? A tempest of protests followed this
proposition. Out! They wanted to come out the holy! That did the trick, as always!

And went to the memory of ordinary people the memory of wonders, learned in childhood on the
slopes of the mother as often as in former centuries had enough poke
to San Bernardo an alley from the shore, so that was immediately down
river, disappearing like water from a pitcher it is broken.

The mayor, faithful to the Brull dynasty, was puzzled. He frightened the populace wanted access,
as usual, but was not seeing a serious lack Quef.

Fortunately, when the great black mass began to stir indignation by their silence and out of it hostile
whistles and screams, came Rafael.

Dona Bernarda had made out the first hint of the popular event.

In those circumstances was wearing when her husband, giving provisions that nothing served.
But River returning to normal and away the danger, the herd popular admired their sacrifices
called the father of the poor.

If the miraculous saint had to leave, it was Rafael who grant permission. The elections of deputies
were coming, the flooding could not get more opportunity.

None of carelessness, or give her a scare, but to do something, for people to speak of him as he
spoke of his father in such cases.

Rafael Thus, after taking account of the most exalted expression of
the desire ordered with a majestic gesture:

- Granted, that bring
to St. Bernard.

Between a roar of applause and cheers Brull, the black avalanche headed for the church.

Had to talk to the priest to make the holy and the good priest, good-natured, overweight and so sly,
always refused to accede to what he called a traditional masquerade. He was pleased to recently come
out in procession, under an umbrella, rolled up his cassock, losing
every step of the shoes in the mud.

In addition, any day, after taking in supplication to San Bernardo, the river had half the city, and in
what position, - as he put it - was the religion because of that crowd of vociferous?

Rafael and his acolytes in the council were trying to convince the
priest, but this only answered his request by asking if he came Basin
water.

- I think - said the mayor .-- You see that this increases
the danger and becomes accurate output of the saint.

- For if there
is water - said the pastor - it's best to let it go, and San Bernardo
stay at home. These saints have things to play with great discretion,
believe me ... And if you remember from that stream where the water
went over the bridges. We took the saint, and came near to the river
water take him down.

The crowd concerned about the delay, screaming
against the priest. It was a strange sight to see church man protesting
in the name of good sense, pretending to fight concerns piled by centuries
of fanaticism.

- Since you want it, either - he said at last .--
Take out the holy and God have mercy us.

A huge cheer from the crowd,
which filled the church square, welcomed the news. Rain was still
falling and the serried ranks of heads covered with skirts, blankets
and some other umbrella, passing the red flames of the torches scarlet
staining the wet side.

Smiling people under temporary confidence
that success, rejoicing in advance with the terror of the river just
in it entered the holy image. What could not San Bernardo? His story
portentous, like a romance of Moors and Christians, all imaginations
inflamed. Was a holy land: the second son of the Moorish king of Carlet.
For his talent, his courtesy and beauty, won much success in the court
of King of Valencia, who became prime minister, and when his master
had to go into negotiations with the King of Aragon, sent to Barcelona
to San Bernardo, then called Prince Hamet.

On his journey, arrives
one night at the gates of the monastery of Poblet. The chants of the
Cistercians, spreading vagorosos mystics and in the stillness of the
night through the arches, stir the soul of the young Saracen, who
is attracted to the religion of the enemies by the charm poetry. About him was a roaring babel of
sound, voices urging him on, shouts of dismay, imploring shrieks from behind. Then the quarter
was before him, crouching with out-reached hands, a strained, anxious look on his dirt-streaked
face.

They met near the twenty-yard line. The Benton quarter launched himself forward. Carmine swung
to the left and leaped. A hand groped at his ankle, caught, and Carmine fell sprawling to the
turf. But he found his feet like a cat, wrenched the imprisoned ankle free and went staggering,
stumbling on. Again he fell, on the five-yard line, and again the Benton quarter dived for
him. But Carmine was not to be stopped with the line only five short yards away. He wrested
himself to his feet again, the arms of the Benton quarter squirming about his knees, plunged
on a stride, dragging the enemy with him, found his legs locked firmly now, struggled desperately
and then flung himself sidewise toward the last white streak. And as he fell his hands, clasping
the ball, reached forward and a whistle blew.

It was said afterward that a half-inch decided that touchdown. And the half-inch was on the
wrong side of the line! Carmine wept frankly when he heard the decision and Tom Hall had to
be held away from the referee, but facts were facts and Carmine had lost his touchdown and
Brimfield the victory by the width of a finger!

Benton departed joyously, cheering and singing, and Brimfield tried hard to be satisfied with
a drawn game. But she wasn't very successful, and for the next few days the referee's decision
was discussed and derided and regretted.

What sorrow Don felt was largely mitigated when, after supper that evening, Steve Edwards found
him in front of Billings. "You come to us Monday, Don," said the captain. "Robey told me to
tell you. Joe Gafferty's got a rib caved in and is out of it for a fortnight at least. Get
Tim to coach you up on the signals. Don't forget."

As though he was likely to!

CHAPTER X

TIM EXULTS AND EXPLAINS

WHEN Don told Tim the latter insisted on performing a triumphal dance about the room to the
tune of "Boola." When Don squirmed himself loose Tim continued alone until the droplight was
knocked to the floor at the cost of one green shade. Then he threw himself, panting but jubilant,
on his bed and hilariously kicked his feet in air. Don observed him with a faint smile.

"You wooden Indian, you!" exclaimed Tim, sitting up and dropping his feet to the floor with
a crash. "There you stand like a--a graven image, looking as though you'd just received an
invitation to a funeral! Cheer, you idiot! Make a noise! Aren't you tickled to death?"

"You bet I am!" replied Don.

"Well, do something, then! You ought to have a little of my Latin temperament, Don. You'd be
a heap easier to live with. Leonora was rich, with an admirable delicacy had avoided talking of money
to discuss travel arrangements, but he was not going to be an entertaining, did not want Salvatti
live like that exploded the youth of the artist. These thoughts were forces to take the money
and leave the house, but the train still lasted concern, and character, the deputy felt an instinctive
fear to see in the stations tricorn civil guard. Thinking paled in the wake of his mother
if by chance was aware of the spoils.

The confidence and joy revived when entering the hotel as if to enter into a place of asylum. He
found her in bed, her hair spread over the pillow like a golden wave, eyes narrowed, mouth smiling
as if surprised in the middle of a dream tasting her memories of love. At noon got up for lunch
in the room, pale, tired, proposing to undertake their journey as soon as possible. No more
mad, until they saw sense outside Spain. At dusk would come in the mail from Barcelona to the
border. And quietly as a marriage discussed in the quiet home pleasant details of material life, magazine
went objects necessary for the trip.

Rafael had nothing. Who had fled as fire escapes, with the first suit found to jump out of bed.
Much needed essential and thought go out to buy: a matter of time.

- But you're gonna go? - Leonora asked with some anxiety, as if her feminine instinct divined in danger
.-- Will you let me alone? ...

- Wait no more. I do not expect much.

They parted in the corridor with the noisy and careless joy of his
passion, without looking the waiters came and went at the other end
of the long hallway.

- Bye, Rafael ... One, one no more.

And when he came to the square, with the taste on his lips the last kiss, he still greeted from
a balcony, a hand covered with jewels.

The young man walked hurriedly.

He wanted to return as soon as possible, and quickly went by between
tag coachmen who offered their services as opposed to the great palace
of Dos Aguas, closed silent, asleep as the two giants that keep your
home, developing in the rain sun gold ornate splendor and gracious
rococo style.

- Rafael, Rafael ...

The deputy turned round on hearing
his name, and pale as in the presence of an apparition.

Was Don Andrew who called him.

- Are you here?

- Arrived in the mail from Madrid.

Two hours ago I look through all the hotels of Valencia. I knew you were here ... But let's go, we
need to talk, this is not a good place.

And cast a look of intense hatred of the hotel, as if to wipe the
huge mansion with all beings it contained.

They left, walking slowly, not knowing where they went, wandering aimlessly, turning corners,
repeatedly passing the same street, with concentrated thought, nerve
shaken, ready to scream and making efforts to make his voice was weak,
dull, and not to draw attention of passers-rozándoles the narrow sidewalks.

Don

Andrés began, as expected.

- Do you think well what have you done?

Seeing him appear cowardly attempt amazed, ensuring that nothing was done, who had come to Valencia
for a trifling matter, the old man angry.

- Do not lie, or are we men or are not. You must argue the fact, if you have figures done well.
Do not think I'll fool to run away with that woman, God knows where. I found you and will never
abandon you. I want you to know everything: your mother in bed, I, advised by her about what happened,
the first train out to meet, the whole house revolution believing in the first instant in a robbery,
and the city taking you in these languages ​​may hours. What ...
Are you happy?

Would you kill your mother? For the kill ... My God! And these are men of talent! The gentlemen
to race! Much better than a brute like you were me or your father, no education, but knowing live
and have fun without commitment.

After carefully recounted what happened.

The mother having to visit your old furniture to make a payment to
the laborers, the cry of horror and alarm the house put in commotion;
the arrival of Don Andrés, hastily warned, the suspicion of domestic
fidelity, by reviewing all the servants, who cried indignantly protesting
until Dona Bernarda fell into a chair, almost fainting, he whispered
to his counsel:

- Rafael not home.

He's gone ... perhaps never to return. Guess what, he has the money.

And when put to bed sobbing mother and warned the doctor, he went to the to catch the train
station, and read in the curious glances presentiment of what happened,
how quickly joined this agitation revilers deaf to the House of Brull
Rafael higher in the first train, witnessed by some, despite precautions.

-
Rafael, Mr Deputy, are you happy?

... Do you want to laugh even more to their enemies?

The old man spoke with a trembling voice, seemed ready to mourn. The work of his life, large victories
won by Don Ramon, that political power so carefully polished and sharpened, everything was going
to break and be lost because of a slight boy, vehemently, that the worship a woman at his
feet threw his own and others.

Rafael, who at first felt aggressive, ready to respond with violence if the old fellow extreme
reprimand, showed himself somewhat softened and moved by the sincere grief of the man, no other
feeling that domination, like his father, as the cat resembles the
tiger, and almost weeping at the sight at risk the prestige of the
house.

Crestfallen, terrified by the image of the scene, after his flight, Rafael did not know where they
went.

He was surprised to suddenly a perfume of flowers. Passing through a garden, and head up the
sun was shining figure of the arrogant conqueror of Valencia on his wiry warhorse.

Continued. The old man spoke with an accent mournful of the situation of the house. That maybe
money in his pocket, more than thirty thousand pesetas, representing the last her mother's efforts
to shore up the family fortune, put at risk by genius of Don Ramón. His was the money, he had
nothing to say, I could splurge for the world but did not speak to any child, I spoke to a man
who had heart and just asked as his childhood preceptor, as his oldest friend, who thought of
the sacrifices of his mother, his exaggerated and tough economy, deprivation was imposed, dressed
habit at any time, fighting over a penny with the maids, despite its air of great lady, depriving
themselves of these goodies and gifts like so much in old age, especially for his master child with
a woman happily spend that amount of the gift speaking Andrew, with
respect, thinking about what it took to assemble.

Come on, man, who was to die for to see such things! ...

What if the father, if Don Ramón lifted his head? "If I saw how his son a love destroyed suddenly
so many years what had taken up? ...

Passing a bridge. Down in the dry riverbed, highlighting the red and blue spots a group of soldiers
and sounded the beating of drums and the humming of a huge beehive. Bellicose roar that accompanied
the evocation of the father with dignity made by the old.

Rafael I expected to see ahead of them this enormous body of fighting men, his big mustache his fierce
brow of a conqueror, adventurer born to lead men and impose his will.

- If Don Ramon saw this! ... He was able to give all his fortune for a woman, but had not taken
together the finest in the world in exchange for losing a single vote.

And his son, one offshoot in which he had pinned his hopes, the house intended to raise to
his greater glory, which was to be a character in Madrid, and at birth was the way Indeed, threw
out the window all the work of the father with the easy abandonment that is lost which does
not cost anything to win. Everyone could see that he had not known the bad times! The time of
the Revolution, when they were dropped and had to be enforced shotgun in hand, the desperate
electoral battles in which victory was achieved by passing over a dead bold gallops on the eve of
scrutiny, through the fields, wrapped in shadow at night, knowing that was ambushed near the
rut accurate rifle, which had sworn his death, the endless process of coercion and violence
that were living in perpetual anguish, expecting at any moment the final catastrophe, the
loss presidio of goods. All this had dragged his father for him to
carve out a pedestal for create you own district, opening the way
to go far, far away.

And he lost everything is stripped of power forever formed at the expense of years and hazards,
if that night did not come home, destroying with its presence the assumptions of people shocked.

Rafael
shook his head, moved by the memory of his father, convinced by the
reasons for the old, but determined to resist.

No, and no, the die was cast, he would his way.

Were under the trees of the Alameda. Carriages passed forming an immense wheel the center of the
avenue, shiny trappings of horses and the lamps of the bracket with
glare, seeing through the windows of ladies hats and white lace of
children.

Don Andrés was indignant at the tenacity of the young. Enseñábale those families, outdoor calm
and happy, walking in their carriages, with the quiet calm of an abundance sedentary and free
of emotions. Christ! So bad was this life?

Could live as well it if it was good, if not turned his back to duty, rich, influential, respected,
older surrounded by children, the only thing in this world may want an honest person.

All this love without hindrance or laws, the love that is stolen from
society and its customs, self-reliance and, disregarding the will
say, were lies of poets, musicians and dancers lost and crazy people
like the woman who snatched away, far away, breaking always with family
ties and his country.

The old man seemed encouraged by the silence of Rafael. I thought time to attack your love
boldly.

- And then, what a woman! I have been young like you, it is true that I have not met ladies like
that, but, bah! all are equal. I have my weaknesses, but I say that
for a woman like that had not lost even a nail.

Any girl that lies beyond the worth more. Long dress, very short, powders and paints a handful
... Not that I say that is ugly no sir, but the son, just need to go crazy, the leftovers of others!
...

And speaking of the past of the artist of that gallant and stormy
history, exaggerated by legend dozens lovers, her naked body reproduced
in statues and pictures, the look across Europe running on its beauty,
with the confidence that comes into your home, knowing every corner.

Go virginity to go crazy! And why would that conquers to lose everything?

The old man was afraid to see the tip of embers that ignited anger in the eyes of Rafael. Ended
through another bridge, came back into the city, and Don Andrés in
their misery of old malware and coward, drew back as if to hide behind
the box guards consumption, getting rid of the slap and saw cutting
the air.

The deputy, after a brief hesitation, he moved on, discouraged, downcast, without noticing the
old man who had returned to stand by his side.

Ah, damn! How well known was hurt! Leonora's past, her love split with mad generosity by the four
corners of the earth, all the people going about their bodies, domándola an instant attraction
to the elegance and the charm of art, her womb shivering in a palace today and tomorrow in a
hotel room, his mouth repeating in various Language those same words of love, broken by spasm, inflamed
him, as if it were the first to hear them. And why these remains that miraculously survived
even after the insane waste, could he lose everything, to flee leaving behind the scandal, discredit
and perhaps the body of his mother? Ah, don Andrés terrible! And how after got hurt fingers into the
bloody wound widening rift! The logic of the old flat and vulgar
his dream had vanished.

That man was the rustic Sancho malicious advised his quixotic father and his mission was now
near the child.

Reminded of a blow the whole history of Leonora, the confidences of his free time pure friendship,
when it had everything to prevent the follow forward. As much as worship she would just be
a successor to the Russian count, the German musician, or any love those few days, just mentioned,
but something had been left in his memory. A successor! The last one comes with a few years
late and is content in biting warm maturity that they knew with the freshness and gentle youth film!
The kisses that so deeply troubled him was something more than the touch of the woman was heady
perfume and sickness of all the corruptions and follies of the earth,
the smell concentrated a world that had run mad at her beauty as the
night birds crowded to the headlight.

Abandon everything for her! Running the land, free and proud of his love ... And in that world
would find many of his predecessors watching him with curious eyes and ironic; survivors of past adventures,
in his presence, undress with his eyes, guessing in advance the broken
sentences she had to say at night, the aberrations never satisfied
his passion.

The strange thing was that none of this had happened before.

The blindness of happiness ever left him thinking that he was not the first that passed through his
arms, that those words you rocked as sweet music could have been heard by others and others
before him ...

How long were on the streets of Valencia? ... His legs were shaking, I was faint, just saw.
The eaves of the houses were still bathed in sunlight, as he seemed to walk a groping in the
twilight.

- I have thirst, Don Andrés. Let us anywhere.

The old man headed to the cafe in Spain, his favorite retreat. He had the foot of the table
four clocks behind the Angel of Fame at the center of large square
hall, with its huge mirrors and gilded fantastic views, obscured by
smoke and light twilight falls high lantern like a huge crypt.

Rafael drank, not knowing certainly the contents of the glass, a poison that time froze heart. Don
Andrés gazed on the marble table with writing, the portfolio of broken
rubber and ink jar miserable, hitting them with the tail of the pen,
a pen coffee, greased, crooked toes, instrument of torture to despair
hand.

- Not an hour for the train.

Rafael, I know man, there is still time. Come and remedy this childish.

And he handed the pen, although not been mentioned in the conversation, the purpose of writing anyone.

-
I can not, Sir Andrew. I am a gentleman, I have my word and do not back come what may.

The old man smiled sarcastically.

- Be as you wish sir. It will be for that woman. But when you break up with her when leave you
or forsake you do not come back to Alcira. Your mother will not apply: I will not know where, and
the deputy did you you look like a thief who robbed and killed his
mother ... Rage, hit me if you want, and we look at the other tables
... gives a scandal in the coffee, not so cease to be true what I
say ...

In the meantime Leonora was growing impatient in her hotel
room.

Three hours had passed. To allay concern sat on the balcony, behind the green shutters, along with
distracted eyes over the few pedestrians crossing the square.

It was a reminder of the squares of Florence, surrounded by stately
homes, closed and imposing, with its paving stones from the sun burning,
including grass grows and wake from slumber to slow pace of a woman,
a priest or traveler, repeating his steps when they are away.

I looked at the old houses of the square, angle Dos Aguas Palace, with their board jasper coating
between the frames of foliage on the balconies, listening to talks of the drivers, grouped
in front of the hotel, around the owners and servants, all those mustachioed Italians who drew
chairs to the sidewalk like a village street.

Of then he glanced across the rooftops, which was retreating sunlight, increasingly pale and
softened.

He looked at his watch. Six. But where the man had gotten? Iban to miss the train, and to take
advantage until the last minute, gave orders to Beppa, meaning that everything was in order
and ready to go. Collected his toiletries, suitcases closed after question of his gaze wander
around the room with the restlessness of a quick game, and placed
in an armchair near the window, his coat on the road, hand bag, hat
and the veil to be addressed without delay or hesitation, just be
issued Rafael, panting and tired for the delay.

And the lover without coming ... Felt compelled to leave in search,
but where to find?

From she had not been in town, know the streets, could be crossed without knowing it to Rafael,
wandered as he waited in the hotel. Better to wait.

Just the day. In the fourth extended the shadow of twilight, confusing
objects.

He returned to the balcony, trembling with impatience, sad, like
the violet light is diffused by the sky, streaking, reflecting the
setting sun.

Would lose the train should wait until the next day.

A setback that upset the security of your flight.

He turned with a nervous motion hearing that was called from the door of the room

- Signora, a lettera.

A letter to her! ... The fever took the hand of the waiter, in the eyes vague and expression
of the girl, sitting on the suitcases.

His hands shook. The memory of Hans Keller, the ungrateful artist, suddenly emerged in his memory.
Sought a candle in her bedroom and eventually return to the balcony, looking at the letter in
the light of dusk.

His letter in the envelope, but portentous, painful, and torn with
effort.

He felt his whole retreat in the heart blood, read with the eagerness
of you want to rush to hit all bitterness and jumping lines, I guess.

"My mother was very sick ... I go there for a few days just ... my
duty as a son ... we soon see, "and the usual cowardly excuses to
soften the harshness of the dismissal, the promise to join her as
soon as possible; passionate oaths, stating I was the only woman he
loved in the world.

Flashed through his will in order to leave at once for Alcira although
was on foot; wanted sighted with Rafael, throw in the face of this
letter, slap, fight.

- Ah, the wretch!

The infamous! - Roared.

And the maid, who had just lit light, she saw her mistress pale with a white matte wide-eyed,
pale lips, walking upright with painful tension moviese or not feet, as if pushed by an invisible
hand.

- Beppa - moaned .-- gone! Let me! ...

The maiden flight insensitive to the gentleman, attending only Leonora,
guessing the next crisis, his eyes gazing Perky cow lady's face contorted.

-
The miserable! - Roared going from side to side of the room .-- How
mad I was!

Surrender to him, believe him a man, trust me your love, losing the peace and the only family
I rest ... Why not let me go alone? It made me dream of an eternal spring of love and leaves
me ... He played with me ... mocks me ... I can not hate him. Why me woke up when I was down there
collecting, quiet, unresponsive, in a selfish isolation?

... Liar, miserable ... But why cry?

... It's over.

Rejoice, Beppa; again to sing, we run the world, never return to
this place of all where I wanted to educate children.

A live!

A man trying to kick! Well! Well! As the worst of the animals! I laugh to think about my stupidity,
what folly, to believe in certain things! Ja, ja, ja!

And since the square is heard laughter. A crazy laugh, sharp, steely, which seemed to tear meat
and put in commotion around the hotel, while the artist, his lips foaming fell to the ground and
writhed angrily, turning the furniture, cutting himself with sharp metal your luggage.

PART THREE

I

- Don Rafael, the gentlemen of the Committee on Budgets
await your honor in the second section.

- I at the time.

And the
deputy remained bent over his desk in the office writing the Congress,
ending his last letter, adding on more to the heap of correspondence
piled up at the end the table beside the cane and top hat.

It was
the daily task, the heavy corbea pm, that he met with bored expression
a large number of representatives of the country. Answer requests
and inquiries, complaints drown and entertain the crazy claims that
reached the district, the endless clamor of the herd election, not
encountered the slightest obstacle without immediately go to deputy
as the devotee appeals to the miraculous pattern. How much of the blame he really deserved you shall judge for yourself, but the affair
merits a chapter of its own.

CHAPTER XII

THE JOKE ON MR. MOLLER

AMY BYRD started it.

Or, perhaps, in the last analysis, Mr. Moller began it himself. Mr. Moller's first name was
Caleb, a fact which the school was quick to seize on. At first he was just "Caleb," then "Caleb
the Conqueror," and, finally, "The Conqueror." The "Conqueror" part of it was added in recognition
of Mr. Moller's habit of attiring himself for the class room as for an afternoon tea. He was
a new member of the faculty that fall and Brimfield required more than the few weeks which
had elapsed since his advent to grow accustomed to his grandeur of apparel. Mr. Caleb Moller
was a good-looking, in fact quite a handsome young man of twenty-five or six, well-built, tall
and the proud possessor of a carefully trimmed moustache and Vandyke beard, the latter probably
cultivated in the endeavour to add to his apparent age. He affected light grey trousers, fancy
waistcoats of inoffensive shades, a frock coat, grey gaiters and patent leather shoes. His
scarf was always pierced with a small black pearl pin. There's no denying that Mr. Moller knew
how to dress or that the effect was pleasing. But Brimfield wasn't educated to such magnificence
and Brimfield gasped loudly the first time Mr. Moller burst on its sight. Afterward it laughed
until the novelty began to wear off. Mr. Moller was a capable instructor and a likeable man,
although it took Brimfield all of the first term to discover the latter fact owing to the master's
dignified aloofness. Being but a scant eight years the senior of some of his pupils, he perhaps
felt it necessary to emphasise his dignity a little. By the last of October, however, the school
had accepted Mr. Moller and was, possibly, secretly a little proud to have for a member of
its faculty one who possessed such excellent taste in the matter of attire. He was universally
voted "a swell dresser," and not a few of the older fellows set themselves to a modest emulation
of his style. There remained, however, many unregenerate youths who continued to poke fun at
"The Conqueror," and of these was Amy Byrd.

It isn't beyond the bounds of reason that jealousy may have had something to do with Amy's
attitude, for Amy was "a swell dresser" himself and had a fine eye for effects of colour. Amy's
combinations of lavender or dull rose or pearl-grey shirts, socks and ties were recognised
masterpieces of sartorial achievement. The trouble with Amy was that when the tennis season
was over he had nothing to interest himself in aside from maintaining a fairly satisfactory
standing in class, and I'm sorry to say that Amy didn't find the latter undertaking wildly
exciting. He was, therefore, an excellent subject for the mischief microbe, and the mischief
microbe had long since discovered the fact. Usually Amy's escapades were harmless enough; for
that matter, the present one was never intended to lead to any such unfortunate results as
actually attended it; and in justice to Amy it should be distinctly stated that he would never
have gone into the affair had he foreseen the end of it. Is that why he had dragged his
father a life of struggle, party services, often made gun in hand? A loss could compromise the
Brull house, ruined by thirty years of policy Election and the lords of Madrid, now that its
representative was going to play the result sacrifice so much getting the council and perhaps the
means of saving the old farms overwhelmed by the weight of liens and mortgages? ...

Rafael, overwhelmed by this strong mother who was the soul of the party, promised not to return
more to the blue house, not seeing the loss, as he called Dona Bernarda, with an intonation
that word was whistling.

But then dated the conviction of their weakness. Despite its promise, again. Was lost paths,
taking long detours, hidden as a child when going to comrades to eat fruit in orchards. The
encounter with a peasant, with a little boy or a beggar, made him tremble, to him, whose name
is repeated throughout the district, and a time to time I will get the popular investiture,
the eternal dream of his father. And appear in the blue house had to pretend that reached
by a free act of will, without fear. Thus, without the knowledge of his mother, continued
to see a woman up eve of his departure for Madrid.

Rafael Arriving at this point of his thoughts, wondering what prompted him to disobey hope his
mother, braving the terrible outrage.

In that house he had found only a frank and casual friendship, a camaraderie thing Ironically,
as a party responsible for solitude to choose between the lower Comrade
less repulsive.

Ay! how he saw the laughter still skeptical and cold with which they were welcomed their words, he
thought of ardent passion.

What a laugh that, insolent and brutal as whiplash, the day he dared to say he was in love!

-
Nothing romantic, eh, Rafaelito? ... If you want to follow friends, be provided they treat me
like a man.

Comrades and nothing else.

And looking at him with her green eyes, light, evil, sat at the piano and began a ideals of those
songs, as if to the magic of art to raise a barrier between both.

Another day I was nervous, the annoyed looks of Raphael, his words of amorous adoration, and
said with brutal frankness.

- Do not you get tired. I can no longer love: I know a lot of men, but if someone make me return
to love, would not you, Rafaelito.

And he there, insensitive to scratches and downs of this terrible friend skirts indifferent conflict
with the blind passion might provoke at home.

I wanted to get rid of desire and could not.

To tear of such an attraction in the past thought that woman was said that despite its beauty, its
aristocratic air, culture with which he dazzled him, poor provinces, it was only an adventuress
who had run half the world, from each other arms. It was a great thing to get, make her lover,
felt in the carnal contact comrade of princes and famous artists, but it was impossible, why
insist engaging and breaking the tranquility of your home?

To forget fumbled the memory of words and attitudes, trying to turn them into weaknesses. Savoring
the joy of accomplishment, when after the gymnastics of thought in it will without wanting to
possess, a eunuch satisfaction which includes cold and indifferent,
like pieces of dead flesh, the naked beauties lying at his feet.

At the beginning of his life in Madrid was believed cured. His new life, continuous and small
satisfactions of self, the greeting of the officers of Congress, the admiration of who came
there and asked him a ticket for the bleachers, the partner being
treated as by these gentlemen, many of which his father spoke with
the same respect that if were demigods, the honor being called, he,
who with loving Alcira tuteaba whole familiarity, and rub in the most
conservative banks with a battalion of dukes Counts and Marquises,
youths who were deputies in addition to the distinction which gives
a dear beautiful and a good racehorse, all this drunk, stunned him,
making forget, believing completely cured.

But to get to know your new life, losing the charm of novelty these
compliments self-esteem, became the tenacious memories to surface
in his memory.

And at night, when sleep loosened its will in painful stress, blue house, green eyes and devilish
of its owner, and the taste is fresh, large and fleshy with his wry smile that seemed to tremble
between bright white teeth were the inevitable center of all his dreams.

Why resist any longer? Could think of it as like, that his mother would not know. Y gave a love
of imagination, in which the distance to that even more beautiful women.

He felt the longing to return to their city. The absence and distance seemed to pave obstacles. His
mother was not as scary as he thought. Who knows whether to go back, - now that he thought his
new life changed - it would be easy to continue those relationships and prepared her for the isolation
and loneliness, he would get better!

Courts to be closed, and obeying the instructions of the supporters continuous and Dona Bernarda
asking him to do something - whatever it was - something beneficial for the city, an afternoon,
first thing, when in the chamber were not more than the president, the mace-bearers and a few
journalists asleep at the podium, raised up with lunch the throat
with emotion, to ask the Minister of Public Works busiest on record
works Alcira defense against the encroachments of the river, a behemoth
that had a sixty years of life and was still in childhood.

After that I could return with the aura of practical deputy, "zealous advocate for our material
interests, "as he titled the local weekly, organ of the party. Y That morning, off the train,
between the grips of the crowd, the deputy, deaf to the Royal March and alive, stood on tiptoe,
looking to see what distance between the flags, the blue house with
masses of orange.

Arriving in the afternoon she bristled emotion the skin and pressed his stomach. Thought seen
his mother, a lover of his prestige and fearful murmurings of the enemy; those demagogues morning
peered at the door of the cafes mocking the demonstration, but all
his scruples vanished when he saw the oleanders near high and sharp
thorns, the two blue pillars that supported the green door bars, and
pushing this went into the garden.

Extendíanse orange trees in rows, forming streets of red soil, wide
and straight as of a modern city pulled line, where the houses were
dark green domes and glossy.

On both sides of the avenue leading to the house, stretched and laced High rose their thorny
branches. Began to sprout them announcing the first buds spring.

From the sound of the breeze stirring the trees and the chattering
of sparrows flew around the trunks, Rafael felt distant music, the
sound of a piano barely touched fingers, and a husky voice, shy, as
if singing to herself.

She was. Rafael knew the music, a lieder of Schubert, the favorite of that time, a teacher who
"was still the best for picking", he said the artist learned slang of the great musicians, referring
to were only more vulgar popular works the melancholy composer.

The boy moved slowly, afraid, as if fearing that the noise of small steps that melody which seemed
to rock the garden lovingly, asleep in the golden light of late.

The plaza in front of the house, and saw the palm trees rustling again, banks masonry seat
and back of floral tiles. They had laughed at it many times listening.

The door was closed. By using a half-open balcony stood a piece of blue silk slightly curved: the
back of a woman.

Rafael steps made a dog bark at the bottom of the garden, ran cackling the chickens pecked at
one end of the square and the music stopped, hearing the drag of
a chair, as if someone put up.

Appeared on the balcony a large light blue gown. All he saw were Rafael eyes, the green flash
of light seemed to fill all the space in the balcony.

- Beppa! Beppino! - Cried a voice firm and warm soprano sound .-- Apri the slide.

And bowing his dark blond head, laden with thick braids, as a former
golden helmet, He smiled with friendly and cheerful confidence:

-
Welcome, Rafaelito.

Do not know why, I expected this afternoon.

We have already heard of triumphs came to this desert and live music.
Congratulations, gentlemen.

Come in your honor.

II

From Valencia to Xativa, across the vast expanse of rice fields and orange cover Valencia holds
that people under the vague title of the Bank, no one could ignore the name of Brull and political
force that meant.

What if he had made national unity and the country or further divided into Taifa waliatos as when
there was a Moorish king in Carlet, another in Denia and the other in Xativa, the regime Elections
held a kind of inviolable dominion in each district, and to go in
the government of the province's political map, provided that were
set in Alcira, said the same.

- There are safe.

We Brull.

It was a ruling dynasty that came thirty years on the district, with ever greater force.

The founder of the sovereign house had been Rafael's grandfather, Don Jaime Ladino, who had amassed
the family fortune with fifty years of slow exploitation of ignorance and misery. It started as a
clerk at City Hall, then clerk of the court was municipal clerk of the notary and assistant at
the Land Registry. Employment was not often of those who put in touch with the poor law that he
did not monopolized, and thus, justice as a favor selling and using the arbitrary and guile to
dominate the rebel, was making way and appropriating pieces of rich soil that he loved forward a
miser.

Bummer solemn all the time talking about the article so many of the law applicable in the case
poor gardeners had much faith in his wisdom and fear of his malice, and came to seek their
advice in all conflicts, paying as a lawyer.

When he made a small fortune continued in the modest functions to keep on your person the superstitious
awe that infuses the peasants all that is on good terms with the law, but instead of being a beggar,
eternal applicant farthing of the poor, devoted to them out of trouble
by giving them money with the guarantee of future crops.

Giving money to loan seemed a meanness. The troubles of the farmers were when the horse died
and had to buy another. For this, Don Jaime is dedicated to sell to gardeners beasts more or less
defective work that gave him some Roma and Valencia he put to much praise as if it were the
Cid's horse. None of installment sale.

Cash money, the horses were not his - as stated with his hand on his chest - and owners wanted
to cash them immediately. All I could do, in obedience to his great heart, weak to the misery
was looking for money for the purchase, asking for any friend.

Fell into the trap the hapless farmer driven by the need and took the horse after signed with all sorts
of loan guarantees and responsibilities of an amount not had seen,
the Don Jaime, a representative of a hidden being which provided money,
Jaime gave the same gift, representing the owner of the horse.

Total: acquired the rustic a beast without haggling over the double of its value, having also
borrowed an amount with growing interest.

In every business of this, Don Jaime was twice the capital. Then came inevitably the plight of
the victim, interest piling up, the new concessions, still more ruinous to tame Don Jaime and
give a month's break.

Every Wednesday, market day in Alcira and large agglomeration of gardeners, street where don
Jaime lived was a jubilee. Had to request extensions are delivering some pesetas as a funny
gift that did not influence the reduction of debit, to request additional
loan humbly, timidly, as if they came to rob the miser Rabbula, and
the strange case was that, as neighbors noticed, all these people
after all he had left there, going happy-faced satisfaction, as if
he had to get rid of a hazard.

This was the main skill of Don Jaime. Usury knew as a favor to present, spoke always on behalf
of others, the hidden owners of the money and horses, men without belly pressed him making him
responsible for the mistakes of borrowers. Those deserved to have trouble the good heart, get to do favors,
and such conviction instill in their victims knew the demon of man that when he arrived for
the seizure and appropriation the camp or the cottage, said with resignation even many of the
dispossessed:

- He has no guilt. What could he do if he forced the poor? Are the other, the other who suck
the blood of the poor.

And so, quietly, the poor Don Jaime acquired a field here, then another
there, then a third which united the two, and return a few years formed
a beautiful garden orange, acquired more traps and trickery to cash.

That was enlarging their properties, and always smiling, spectacles on his forehead and stomach increasingly
voluminous he looked among his victims, tuteándolas with brotherly affection, patting when
they came back with new requests and swearing that he would die in the street a dog that obsession
with doing favors.

That was thriving, but the taunts of the townspeople made him lose confidence of that flock of rustics
who feared him as the law and believed in him as in Providence.

A loan to a spendthrift mayorazgo made him owner of the stately mansion since became Brull family. He began
frequenting the large landowners of the city, though despised, they
opened a gap between them with that instinctive solidarity the freemasonry
of money.

To gain more respect, became a devotee of St. Bernard, Church paid holidays and was always next to
the mayor, whoever he was. For him Alcira was already in others,
than to get the crop picked up thousands of dollars; the others were
the rabble.

By then, freed of the offices he had played low and letting businesses
usury in the hands of those who previously served as intermediaries,
he began to worry about marriage of his son Ramon.

It was his sole heir, a bad head genius alter their welfare tranquil surrounding the old Brull
rest of their prey.

The father was an animal satisfaction at seeing big, strong, bold and insolent, making respect
in cafes and casinos, more so for his fists than by giving the special immunity money in small
towns.

Anyone dare to mock the old usurer taking next to that child!

I wanted to be military, but his father was angry every time the boy
referred to what he called his vocation.

Is that why he had worked getting rich? He remembered the time in that poor clerk had to flatter their
superiors and humbly listen to reprimands with their backs bent. I did not want his only son
to carry him around like a machine.

- Much gold! - Exclaimed with contempt which is not attracted to the
outside - much gallon, but ultimately a slave!

He loved his son free and powerful, continuing the conquest of the city, completing the greatness
family initiated by him, seizing people, as he had taken the money.

Would be a lawyer, the race of men who govern. It was a longing for old Rabbula; see your stem
retracts with head held high in the preserve of the law where he had introduced always cautiously
stated on many occasions dragged out a string to the foot.

Ramon spent some years in Valencia, without being able to leap beyond the run of Right, damn
right that the classes were in the morning and he had to lie down at dawn, at which time the
lamps are turned off that focused its light on the green table. He also had in his room in
the guest house a great gun, a gift from his father, and the nostalgia of the gardens made him
pass many evenings in the pigeon shooting, where he was better known than in college.

One fine specimen of manly beauty, big, muscular, tanned, with eyes compelling, hardened brows,
was created for action, for the activity, was unable to focus their
intelligence in the study.

Old Brull, that greed and prudence, had his son on half-rations - as he said - only just sent him
money to live, but his victim rather than those with trickery that once exploited the peasants,
had to make frequent trips to Valencia, looking Under certain usurers
who made loans to the child in these circumstances, the insolvency
could lead to jail.

Up to Alcira came rumors of other exploits of the prince, called him to see Don Jaime the nonchalance
with which he spent the money. In family gatherings friends were talking scandal to the escapades
of Ramon, a fight game as a matter of output a casino, a father and
a brother, ordinary people, in blouses, who swore to kill him unless
married with some girl who accompanied the workshop day and night
to dance.

Old Brull would not tolerate any longer the escapades of his son and made him leave studies.
There would be a lawyer: in the end did not need a degree to be a character. In addition, he was
ailing, it was hard to watch in person the work of their gardens,
and needed the help of his son seemed born to impose his authority
to those around him.

He had long since turned their attention to the daughter of a friend. At home they felt the
lack of a woman. His wife had died shortly after he retired from business, and the old Brull was
indignant at the neglect and lack of interest of the maids.

To marry Bernarda Ramon with her, an ugly girl, sullen, sallow and lean meat, which inherit their
parents three beautiful gardens. In addition, it called attention industrious and economical
with parsimony in its expenses that bordered on stinginess.

Ramón
obeyed his father. Educated in the prejudices of rural wealth, believed
that a person decent not oppose the union with a female ugly and unfriendly,
if fortune had.

The father and daughter understood each other perfectly.
Touched the old woman watching Briefly serious and indignant at the
slightest waste of the servants, shouting at When colonists felt the
slightest slip in the garden and discussing and fighting with buyers
orange for a penny more or less the arroba. This new daughter was
the consolation of their old age.

Meanwhile the prince was hunting
in the morning in the nearby mountains, and spent the afternoon in
coffee, but no longer met the applause of those gathered around the
table pool, or visiting heading upstairs. Coterie sought serious people,
was a friend of the mayor and talked about the need for all wealthy
people were together to get into a fist to the rascals.

- It stung
ambition - "the old man cheerfully to his daughter .-- Let him woman,
he will open step ... So you want to see.

Began to enter the hall
and soon acquired notoriety. A minor objection consistory was for
him a personal affront, ending discussions on the street with threats
and beating his greatest glory was that the enemies were saying:

-
Beware Ramon ... See that this is very rough.

And with his aggressiveness,
showed to be captured friends, a sumptuously that was the torment
of his father. Doing favors, kept all those whose revulsion at work
and poor head were fearsome, gave money to those who served as heralds
of his rising fame in taverns and cafes.

His ascent was rapid. The
old that protected and guided, were postponed. Soon time was mayor,
his influence, finding close the city, spread across the district
and found strong support in the capital of the province. Don had actually speeded up considerably, much as Tim had assured him he
could, and while he was still by no means the snappiest man in the line, nor was ever likely
to be, he was seldom far behind his fellows. For that matter the whole line of forwards was
still much slower than Mr. Robey wanted them at that time of year, and Don showed up not badly
in comparison. After all, what is needed in a guard is, first and foremost, fighting spirit,
and Don had that. If he was a bit slower to sense a play, a little later in getting into it,
at least when he did start he started hard and tackled hard and always played it safe. In the
old days when a guard had only his small territory between centre and tackle to cover, Don
would have been an ideal player for the position, but now, when a guard's duties are to free-lance,
so to speak, from one end of the line to the other and to get into the play no matter where
it comes, Don's qualifications were more limited. A guard in these amazing times is "soldier
and sailor too," and Don, who liked to deal with one idea at a time, found it a bit confusing
to have to grapple with a half-dozen!

Brimfield returned to the battle at the beginning of the second half highly resolved to take
no more fooling from her opponent. Fortune ordered it that the south goal should fall to her
portion and that a faint but dependable breeze should spring up between the halves. That breeze
changed Coach Robey's plans, and the team went on with instructions to kick its way to within
scoring distance and then batter through the line at any cost. And so the spectators were treated
to a very pretty punting exhibition by both teams, for, wisely or unwisely, Southby accepted
the challenge and punted almost as often as her adversary. That third period supplied many
thrills but no scoring, for although Brimfield did manage to get the ball on Southby's twenty-five-yard
line when a back fumbled, the advantage ended there. Two rushes failed, a forward pass grounded
and when St. Clair tried to skirt his own left end he was pulled down just short of his distance
and Southby soon punted out of danger.

When time was called both teams made several substitutions. Don yielded his place to Harry
Walton, Crewe went in at right tackle and McPhee took Carmine's position at quarter. With the
advantage of the wind no longer hers, Brimfield abandoned the kicking game and used her backfield
for all it was worth. From the middle of the field to Southby's thirty yards she went without
much difficulty, St. Clair, Martin and Tim Otis carrying the ball for short but consistent
gains. But at the thirty Southby braced and captured the pigskin on downs by a matter of inches.
It was then that Elliston repeated. If I had to save my reputation, aviada was with a friend like you. What things pose there!

And
smile with an expression of superiority, considering well above what
they could that the people of his friendship with Rafael.

- In the
market you tell me about all the vendors as if this was for me the
most irresistible of flattery; ensure that we are a proud partner.

My gardener takes all occasions to tell me you're very handsome. You give thanks ... What
else?

Even my aunt, my poor aunt who lives in limbo, has left it to me the other day: "You know Rafaelito here
so much? If you want to marry you? "You see, married ha! Ha! Ha! Married! The poor lady did
not see more than this in the world.

And he kept throwing in the face of Rafael, dark and evil thoughts, that hearty laughter and
mocking chatter seemed a mischievous bird satisfied with his freedom.

-
But what do you frown today!

Are you sick? ... What happens?

Rafael seized the moment. I was sick, yes, sick of love.

He understood that the entire city speak of them, he could not hide his feelings. If I knew what
it cost that silent worship! I wanted to start thinking of devotion to her, and could not. Needed
see, hear, and only lived for her. "Read? impossible. Talk to your friends? All repugnant to him.
Their home was a cave that went to great effort to eat and sleep. She left as soon as you wake up
and leave town, it looked like a prison. The field, and the field the blue house where she lived.
Which eagerly awaiting the arrival of the afternoon, the time by an unspoken custom, neither
scored, he could enter the garden and find it in your bank under the palms! ... I could not live
like this. Poor People powerful envied him, so young deputy, and he wanted to be ... You'll
never guess what? What absurd things! Leonora is not mocked! The terms would be that the bank
was for the garden, gently crushed by the weight of your entire afternoons, to become the work
revolving in his delicate fingers, by transforming themselves into one of the people around
her at all times, of that Beppa, for example, that the wake in the morning, leaning asleep
on his head, moving with her breath her hair undone, scattered as a wave of gold on the pillow
and wiped her ivory flesh out the bathroom, sliding your hands for incoming and outgoing curves
of her soft body. Servant, animal, inanimate object something that was in constant contact
with him, that he craved: not to be compelled to the arrival of the night away after a prolonged
farewell ending child pretexts, to return to the irritating banality of his life, the solitude of her
room, in which dark corners, as evil temptation, he thought he saw eyes fixed on green.

Leonora was not laughing. Abríanse inordinately gold flecked eyes, quivering with excitement the
alillas of his nose, and seemed sincerely moved by the eloquent young.

- Poor Rafael! Poor me! ... What do we do?

In the garden, Rafael had never dared to speak so frankly. Le proximity self-conscious of relatives
of Leonora, intimidated him and mocking the surface air with which she received visits, the
irony with which he aimed it a little disconcerting words of love. But there in the middle
of the road, was another thing was free, I wanted to empty his heart. What torment! Every day he went
to the blue house trembling hope, troubled by the illusion. "Perhaps is today, "they said. And
his legs trembled, and saliva in his throat seemed to solidify, drowning. And hours later in the
evening, desperate to return home, marching discouraged in light of the stars, zigzagging on the road
as if he were drunk, feeling beetles tears on the eyelids, wanting to die, as it needs to pass
breaks forward and fists against a huge wall of ice blocks. Did not noticed him? Do not see
the huge efforts made to please? ... Ignorant, humble, recognizing the vast difference that
separates them both for their different life, what's efforts to reach his height, for those placed
at the level of men who had owned for a few days or whole years! She must have noticed. If the
Count was speaking Russian model of elegance, Rafael next day, to the astonishment of his home,
took out his best clothes, and sweating under the sun, oppressed by the high collar, undertook that
journey it was her Street of Bitterness, walk like a lady so that dust does not dampen the shine
of their boots. If the musician German crossed the memory of Leonora, he revisited his books,
and affecting the outside neglect of those artists seen in the novels, arrived there with the purpose
of discussing the immortal master of Wagner, whom he hardly knew, but she adored as a person
family ... My God! All this was ridiculous, he knew him best was presented without disguise, with
all its smallness. Acknowledged that it was impossible that struggle to match with the thousand
ghosts that filled the memory of Leonora, but do not do it for wake that heart to be loved for a
moment, a day any more, and then die!

And there was such sincerity in this confession of love, Leonora,
increasingly agitated, approached to him, taped to his body walked
unwittingly and smiled slightly, repeating his phrase, mixture of
maternal affection and pity.

- Poor Rafael!

... Poor me!

They had reached the gate leading into the garden.

The avenue was deserted.

In the square, shut off the house, ran around the chickens.

Rafael, overwhelmed by the effort of that confession, which took account of anguish and dreams
of many months, he leaned against the trunk of an old orange. Leonora was facing listening to
him with bowed head, scratching the soil with the tip of his red umbrella.

Dying, yes, he had read this many times in novels could not suppress a smile. Now you do not
laugh. I had thought a few nights in the confusion of delirium, end that love tragically. The blood
of his father, violent and domineering, boiled in it. If she convinced that it would never be his,
was not to kill anyone, and kill him later! Drop the two on the ground soaked with blood, as
on a bed of red damask, kiss him in the cold lips, without fear that no one bothered him, kiss
her and kiss her until the last breath of life was lost in the pale
face of it.

She said with conviction, vibrating all the muscles of his face manly, burning like coals Moor
her eyes streaked for the passion of blood veins. And Leonora was looking at him now passion,
as if he saw a new man. Trembled with emotion on hearing the new barbarians dreams, death
threats.

That is not gloomily as the poet killed Italian looking lost love died killing, destroyed the
idol, if not attended to his pleas.

And sweetly moved by the tragic expression of Rafael, was carried
away by it, that had taken an arm and drew her away from the avenue
between the tops of the orange low.

Both remained silent for long. Leonora seemed intoxicated by the virile perfume of those threats of
wild passion.

Rafael, the head down and quietly watch the artist, thought he had offended his words and repented
of them.

Should forgive him, he was crazy. Exasperated at his strength is inexplicable. Lenore Lenore Why
strive to hinder the work of love? He was not indifferent to her, not inspired dislike or hate,
otherwise they would not be friends and would allow continued visits.

Love? ... I was sure that was not sorry for him, poor man, unable to inspire passion for a woman
like her.

But do not resist, and eventually love him, he achieved conquer by
force of love and of worship.

Ay! with only his love, was for the two and all the famous lovers in history. It would be his
slave, the carpet that would his feet, the dog always tended to her,
his eyes burning of eternal fidelity, would end up loving him, if
not for love, gratitude and pity.

And as he spoke, brought his face close to Leonora, seeking his image at the bottom of the
eyes green, pressed his arm with the fever of passion.

- Careful, Rafael ... do you hurt me, Let me go you.

And as if awakened in the middle of danger after a sweet dream, she shuddered, detachment with a nervous
impulse.

Then he began to speak calmly, and record of drunkenness that had troubled the passionate words
of Raphael.

No, what he wanted was impossible. The die was cast, I did not love
... Friendship I had taken something away.

She was to blame, but know about it. It was already a boat old who could not bear the weight
of a new passion. If I had known years before, maybe.

He acknowledged that he had come to love him, he thought more worthy of your love others men
she had loved. But it was late, now I just wanted to live. What horror! The emotions of passion
in a mean, in that small world of trivia and gossip! Hiding like criminals for wanting to! She, like
the love of the outdoors, with sublime immodesty of the statue shocked
the fools with their naked beauty!

Verse eaten away at all hours by the murmuring of fools, after giving his body and soul man!
Feel around the scorn and indignation of all the people that accuse having corrupt a youth, separated
from his path, away forever from the Yours!

No, Rafael, a thousand times no, she was conscious, was not the crazy
times.

- But what about me? - Sighed the young man clutching his
arm again with childhood anxiety - you thinks of itself and all, forgetting
me.

What can I do alone with my passion?

- You forget - he said gravely Leonora .-- Today I saw that it is impossible for me to stay here.
The two need to get away.

I flee before the end of the spring, I will not know where, again the world to sing, where there are
men like you, and the time and absence will be responsible of cure.

Leonora winced when he saw the blaze of wild passion that went through
the eyes of Rafael.

He felt her lips with the hot breath of those who sought his mouth, muttering to roar off:

- No, you will not go, I do not go away.

And he was linked, moved from head to foot by jittery arms that passion
gave new strength.

Her feet left the ground, he was raised, a brutal drive the he fell on his side at the foot
of an orange, while their clothes were moving about convulsive hands,
trembling, that wounded the beast flesh with caresses.

It was a brutal fight, which lasted a few moments ignoble. The Valkyrie reappeared in women up. Its
robust body vibrated with a supreme effort, she sat with her weight
smothering Raphael, Leonora and finally sat up, putting your foot
brutally, without mercy, on his chest Young, squeezing as if trying
to crack the bones of his chest.

His appearance was terrible. It seemed crazy, with dirty blond hair and ground broken. Its green
eyes glowed as sharp metal knives, and his mouth, discolored emotion,
contracting, releasing, by force of habit, the instinct of effort
his battle cry, a hojotoho! torn, savage, which shook the calm of
the garden, shaking to poultry, they ran scared from the trails.

Umbrella brandished in anger as if it were the lance of Wotan's daughters,
and several times pointed it at Rafael's eyes as if to remove them.

The girl seemed crushed by his effort, ashamed of his brutality, lifeless
on the ground, without protest, as if he wished never to rise again,
to die under that foot suffocated him angry.

Leonora calmed down, and slowly came back a few steps, while Rafael
was incorporated, picking up his hat.

It was a painful scene.

The two felt cold, did not see the light, as if the sun had gone out and the garden blowing
an icy wind.

Rafael looked embarrassed when soil was afraid of her, afraid to be seen in the clothes disheveled,
dirty ground, beaten and beaten as a thief who surprised a strong master.

Leonora's voice, speaking with contemptuous familiarity that is used
with the miserable.

- Go!

He looked up and saw the angry and arrogant Leonora, fixed on him.

- Me not take me - he said coldly, - give me if I want.

And in a gesture of contempt and rage with which dismissed Rafael, seemed to mark the memory
Boldini odious, disgusting old man, alone in the world that had taken by force.

Rafael wanted to apologize, ask forgiveness, but that memory of adolescence evoked brutal scene,
made her relentless.

- Go, go, or get slapped! ... Never come back here.

And to give more power to these words as Rafael, humiliated, dirty,
out of the garden, Leonora closed behind him the wooden fence so brutal
momentum, which nearly blew up the bars.

IV

Doña Bernarda Rafael showed himself pleased with her.

No more glaring, gestures severe, the mute scenes between mother
and son, who witnessed with awe the intimate of the house.

He did not go to the blue house, I knew with great certainty, thanks to free intelligence that
the affected people serving the family. Just left the house, a casino by the time the afternoon,
and the rest of the day in the dining room with her and friends,
or locked in his room, no doubt turn his books, which the austere
lady looked with superstitious awe of their ignorance.

Don Andres, the director, commenting triumphantly showed that change. What had him, provided that
Dona Bernarda, in the intimate secrets of their friendship that almost took the character of
a senile passion, quiet and respectful, complained of the rebellion
of youth?

That would happen: it was a quirk of age, had to give youth its own. Rafael no had studied to
Carthusian. Others of his age and even more years were worse! ... And the old Mr. thought
smiling at his easy conquest of the stores, between the unruly flock, miserable and dirty petticoats
papering orange. Good Dona Bernarda, after suffer so much from her husband was very demanding
with his son. Have fun! Enjoyed that!

Already tired of the artist to be so beautiful, and then it would be easy to get back on track.

Doña
Bernarda admired once again the talent of the director, seeing fulfilled
their predictions, made with a cynicism that the devout lady blushed.

She also believed it all over.

His son was less blind than the father.

Was tired the lost love of a woman like that, not wanting to quarrel with his mother for so
little, nor enemies discredit him and returned to duty with great joy of the good lady around
him to seek care.

- How about that? - Her friends asked her mysteriously.

- Nothing - responded with a proud smile .-- It has been three weeks and no hints of wanting back
there. My Rafael is good. What happened was just a distraction boy. If you only saw him in the
evenings to keep me company in the room! An angel, an angel. It spends hours talking to me and
the daughter of Matthias.

He added, exaggerating his smile and mischievous eyes:

- I think there's something.

Something, yes, or at least the appearance of any. Rafael, tired of wandering around the house
tired of books to which he spent hours turning leaves, unaware of
what they said, took refuge in the room where his mother sewed, watching
a complicated embroidery the daughter of Don Matias.

Rafael liked the simplicity of this gentle girl. Its simplicity produced in him a impression of freshness
and relaxation.

Cuevecitas saw it as a narrow and hidden in which slumbered calm after a storm. The satisfied
smile of his mother encouraged him to stay there. I had never been so kind and communicative. The
enjoyment of having him back safe and modified its austere submissive
to the roughness.

Remedios, head bent over her embroidery, heavily reddened whenever Rafael praised their work
or said it was the prettiest girl in Alcira.

The thread helped needles, with outstretched hands acted as the skein winder that curled the
girl and more than once pinched her under the frame, with the confidence to have met child,
which did not prevent her screams shocked.

- Rafael, do not be mad - said the mother kindly threatening their hands .-- Let dry Remedies
work, if you behave so badly will not let you enter the room.

And at night, alone in the room with Mr. Andrew, when it was time for confidences, Dona Bernarda
forgot the affairs of the house and the party to say with satisfaction:

-
That way.

- Do you love Rafaelito?

...

- Every day. The thing is in full swing.

That boy is this the image of his father. Believe me, they should not lose sight. If I were
not here, that little devil would be able to discredit the crazy
house.

And the good lady, she was sure that there was Rafael and daughter of Dr. Moreno, abominable
creature, whose beauty had been her nightmare for some months.

He knew from his spies that morning market were found both in the
streets of Alcira.

Rafael turned her gaze as if looking for a place through which to
escape, she went pale and pretending not to see him later.

What did that mean? ... The break forever. She, good piece, pale with rage, perhaps because he
could not catch her Rafael again, for he, Tired of filth, abandoned
forever.

Ah, the lost! The whore!

What then there was more to educate a child in the most wholesome
and virtuous beliefs and make him a character, so that later came
a correntona thousand times worse than those for money make junk in
an alley to take him away with his hands dirty?

What was believed the daughter of shirtless? ... Rage! Penalty pales, seeing that you will forever!

In
the joy of victory, began to think about the wedding of his son with Remedios, and lifting Reservation
tip of a great lady, Don Matías was like family, praising affection live increasingly linked to
the boys.

- Well if you want - said the rich man's crude - for me that the wedding
is soon.

Remedies makes a lot of paper in my hand: a young woman as there is little for housekeeping, but
This is no obstacle to the wedding. Very satisfied, Dona Bernarda, that we are relatives.
I just feel that Don Ramón can not see these things.

And it was true that the only thing that marred the joy of rustic millionaire, was that it
lived the high and mighty Lord for the pleasure of treating him like an equal, thus crowning
success its amazing fortune.

Doña Bernarda also saw in this union the height of his dreams: money joined power, the millions
of a business whose success seemed wonderful shots of the game, coming
to quicken with sap from the tree of gold Brülls, something cracked
and old for long years of struggle.

Beginning of spring. Dona Bernarda had some afternoons the boys to their gardens or rich estates
of the father of Remedios.

Had to do with what kindness air watching the young couples, screaming alarmed if in his travels
a few minutes remained hidden behind the orange.

- This Raphael - told his counselor that he had confidence that relate more once the sadness of intimacy
with her husband's .-- What a rascal!

Surely that will kissing!
- Let you, Dona Bernarda. The more you get into flour, less risk
of recurrence the other.

Go back? ... There was no care. Rafael enough
to contemplate how picked flowers and placed them laughing in the
head or chest of Remedios, who resisted weakly, with a blushing schoolgirl
moved by such tributes.

- Quiet, Rafaelito - whispered with a voice
like a bleat supplicant .-- Do not touch me; do not be bold.

And
his emotion betrayed in such a way that seemed to be asking the girls
to return to put in your body that upset those hands from the feet
to the root of the hair. Retreated by education, he was fleeing because
this is the duty of a Christian girl and well educated, escaped as
a goat with graceful leaps between the rows of orange trees, and Mr
deputy left behind at a gallop with quivering nostrils and eyes burning.

-
That you take, Remedios! - Mom cried, laughing .-- Run, which takes
you!

Don Andrés contorted his face wrinkled with a smile of old faun.
Those games will rejuvenated.

- Um, ma'am! Yes, things are going
full steam. Is hot. Cassettes you soon, take heed if not, we can give
a lot to laugh Alcira.

And they were all deceived. Neither mother
nor his friend saw the expression of dismay and sadness Rafael when
left alone, locked in a room whose dark corners still saw and mysterious
green eyes that he had spoken to Leonora.

Go back to it? Never. It
lasted shame and self-abasement as of this morning. Was seen in all
its tragic absurdity, matted on the ground, pressed by the foot of
the virile Amazon, stained earth, humble and confused as an offender
fails to apologize. And then the terrible word like a whip: "Go!",
As a lackey who dares venture his lady, and the gate closed behind
him noisily dropping like a stone tomb between him and the artist.

Not
again: he lacked the courage to face his eyes. The morning I found
it by chance near the market, thought he would die of shame legs trembled,
he saw that the street suddenly darkened as if nightfall. She was
gone, and he still buzzing ears and wanted to lean on something, as
if the ground beneath your feet dangle.

I needed to forget their
embarrassing blunder that memory tenacious as remorse, and is near
the protected stunned his mother. She was a woman, and her hands,
which seemed unbound since that painful morning, went to her, her
tongue was, after vehement confession love for the garden gate, now
spoke lightly, expressing an adoration that seemed without a trace
slide down his face expressionless Remedios, going far, far away,
where remained hidden and injured another. 

Remedios was stunned
about to fall into a sad stupid just barely visible. Was a drunkenness
foam evaporated in the desert. Remedios seemed one of those fruits
unseasoned, healthy, with the flick of virginity, free of pitting
and staining, but without the flavor and perfume delight that intoxicates.

In
his strange situation, living for the day of frolicking with a girl
child aroused in him no more than the joy of fraternal camaraderie
and during the night of sad memories, all he pleased was the confidence
of his mother, the quiet of the house, power come and go without feeling
eyes fixed on him angry and to hear words of indignation choked breath.

Don
Andrés and friends of the casino was asked when would the wedding,
her mother spoke presence of the children of the great transformations
that have to do at home. It isn't pretty, maybe, but it's playing your hand for what there is in it, and that's
my way! Now you sit down again and just think it all over, Gilbert. Take all the time you want.
And remember this, too. If I keep my mouth shut you've got to keep yours shut. No blabbing
to Tim Otis or Clint Thayer or anyone else. This is just between you and me, old man. Now what
do you say?"

"The thing's as crazy as it is rotten, Walton! How am I to get off the team without having
it look funny?"

"And how much do I care whether it looks funny or not? That's up to you. You can play sick
or you can get out there and mix your signals a few times or you can bite Robey in the leg.
I don't give a hang what you do so long as you do it, and do it between now and Saturday. That's
right, sit down and look at it sensibly. Mull it over awhile. There's no hurry."

CHAPTER XVI

DON VISITS THE DOCTOR

"WHAT did Walton want of you?" asked Tim a half-hour later, when the occupants of Number 6
were settled at opposite sides of the table for study.

"Walton?" repeated Don vaguely. "Oh, nothing especial."

"Nothing especial? Then why the mysterious summons? Did he make any crack about that little
escapade of ours?"

"He mentioned it. Shut up and let me get to work, Tim."

"Mentioned it how? What did he say? Any chance of beating him up? I've always had a longing,
away down deep inside me, Donald, to place my fist violently against some portion of Walton's--er--facial
contour. Say, that's good, isn't it? Facial contour's decidedly good, Don."

"Fine," responded the other listlessly.

Tim peered across at him under the droplight. "Say, you look as if you'd lost a dozen dear
friends. Anything wrong? Look here, has Walton been acting nasty?"

"Don't be a chump, Tim. I'm all right. Or, anyway, I'm only sort of--sort of tired. Dry up
and let me stuff."

"Oh, very well, but you needn't be so haughty about it. I don't want to share your secrets
with dear Harry. Everyone to his taste, as the old lady said when she kissed the cow."

Tim's sarcasm, however, brought no response, and presently, after growling a little while he
pawed his books over and dropped the subject, to Don's relief, and silence fell. Don made a
fine pretence of studying, but most of the time he couldn't have told what book lay before
him. When the hour was up Tim, who had by then returned to his usual condition of cheerful
good nature, tried to induce Don to go over to Hensey to call on Larry Jones, who, it seemed,
had perfected a most novel and marvellous trick with a ruler and two glasses of water. But
Don refused to be enticed and Tim went off alone, gravely cautioning his room-mate against
melancholia.

"Try to keep your mind off your troubles, Donald. Think of bright and happy things, like me
or the pretty birds. Remember that nothing is ever quite as bad as we think it is, that every
line has a silver clouding and that--that it's always dawnest before the dark. Farewell, you
old grouch!"

Don didn't have to pretend very hard the next day that he was feeling ill, for an almost sleepless
night, spent in trying to find some way out of his difficulties, had left him hollow-eyed and
pale. Breakfast had been a farce and dinner a mere empty pretence, and between the two meals
he had fared illy in classes. It was scarcely more than an exaggeration to tell Coach Robey
that he didn't feel well enough to play, and the coach readily believed him and gave him over
to the mercies of Danny Moore.

The trainer tried hard to get Don to enumerate some tangible symptoms, but Don could only repeat
that he was dreadfully tired and out of sorts. "Eat anything that didn't agree with you?" asked
Danny.

"No, I didn't eat much of anything. I didn't have any appetite."

"Sure, that was sensible, anyway. I'll be after giving you a tonic, me boy. Take it like I
tell you, do ye mind, keep off your feet and get a good sleep. After breakfast come to me in
the gym and I'll have a look at you."

Don took the tonic--when he thought of it--ate a fair supper and went early to bed, not so
much in the hope of curing his ailment as because he couldn't keep his eyes open any longer.
He slept pretty well, but was dimly conscious of waking frequently during the night, and when
morning came felt fully as tired as when he had retired. Breakfast was beyond him, although
Mr. Robey, his attention drawn to Don by Harry Walton's innocent "You're looking pretty bum,
Gilbert," counselled soft boiled eggs and hot milk. Don dallied with the eggs and drank part
of the milk and was glad to escape as soon as he could.

Danny gave him a very thorough inspection in the rubbing room after breakfast, but could find
nothing wrong. "Sure, you're as sound as Colin Meagher's fiddle, me boy. Where is it it hurts ye?"

"It doesn't hurt anywhere, Danny," responded Don. "I'm all right, I suppose, only I don't feel--don't
feel very fit."

"A bit fine, you are, and I'm thinking you'd better lay off the work for today. Be outdoors
as much as you can, but don't be tiring yourself out. Have you taken the tonic like I told ye?"

"I've taken enough of the beastly stuff," answered Don listlessly.

Danny laughed. "Sure, it's the fine-tasting medicine, lad. Keep at it. And listen to me, now.
If you want to play agin Claflin, Donny, you do as I'm tellin' you and don't be thinkin' you
know more about it than I do. Sure, Robey won't look at ye at all, come a week from tomorrow,
if you don't brace up."

"Oh, I'm all right, Danny, thanks. Maybe if I rest off today I'll be fine tomorrow."

"That's what I'm tellin' you. See that ye do it."

That afternoon he watched practice from the bench without getting into togs and saw Harry Walton
play at left guard. He would much rather have remained away from the field, but to have done
so might, he thought, have looked queer. Coach Robey was solicitous about him, but apparently
did not take his indisposition very seriously. It
was blue fox fur, despite the stature of Rafael, its edges touched the floor. The young man saw
that he was thrown over her shoulders a few thousand francs, and shy, with a trembling hand,
picked up the edge, afraid to step on it.

Leonora laughed at his shyness.

- Not to shrink you, no matter what damage.

It appears that you wear a sacred veil the respect with which it is! Not worth it. I only use this
layer on the road.

Gave me a Grand Duke in St. Petersburg.

And to further ensure their contempt for the rich robe, wrapped the boy in him, hitting his
shoulder to adjust more to your body.

Slowly returned to the room where was the balcony, while in the room sounded loud greeted the appearance
of the barber, wrapped in a luxurious robe. Cupid took advantage of situation to provoke laughter,
and recording the tail and stroking his whiskers, stroking which
a dramatic soprano singing in a falsetto ballad.

The gardeners were laughing like crazy ignoring the water that filled his house, his eyes widened
Beppa admired by the figure, the contortions of that man and the grace with which marred the
Italian verses, and even poor Dona Pepa squirmed in his chair, admiring
the barber, who she says was the funniest of all demons.

Rafael was on the balcony, near Leonora, staring into the darkness, lulled the music of that voice,
that strong interest questioned him on the desperate river trip.

The thinness of that layer that enveloped him, gave him the feeling of a satiny skin tibia.
It seemed that there was still something in that heat soft bare shoulders; believed to be involved
in the skin of Leonora, and the scent of her body, which was next
to him increased this illusion.

Rafael, in a faltering voice, answered their questions.

- What you've done - said the artist - deserves deep appreciation. It is a chivalrous boot worthy
of the past. Lohengrin, arriving in his little boat to save Elsa. It remains the swan ... unless
the barber is content with this role ... Seriously, did not believe here there was a man capable
of behaving well.

- And if you had died young !...-- said to justify his adventure.

- Die! ... I confess to you that at first I had some fear, not death,
that I little fear of death.

I'm a little tired of life, and you will be convinced of this when
I know more.

But drowning in the mud, choked by the water that smells so bad,
no I was amused.

If it were green and clear water of Swiss lakes!

... I I look for beauty even in death, I worry about the latter position as the Romans and feared
perishing here like a rat in the sewer under siege ... And yet, if you only knew I've laughed
watching the terror of my aunt and those poor people who serve us!

... Now the water rises and the house is strong, no more hassle than a siege and wait the day
to see. It must be very beautiful sight of all that beautiful countryside converted in a lake. Right,
Rafael?

- You've seen more interesting things - said the young man.

- Do
not say no, but to me, what impresses me most is the feeling of the
moment.

And silent, showing her sudden seriousness the trouble that caused
him the slightest allusion to the past.

They were both silent for a while, until Leonora resumed the conversation.

- The truth is that if the water keeps rising, you would have appreciated
the life ... Let to see, frankly, why have you come?

What good spirit made him remember he barely knows me?

Rafael blushed with shame, she trembled from head to foot, as if he
demanded a mortal confession.

I was going to release the truth, to overturn a blow your mind with all the dreams and anxieties
of those days, then stopped and grabbed a pretext.

- My enthusiasm for the artist - timidly said .-- I admire your talent.

Leonora burst into a loud laugh.

- But if you do not know me! If you have not ever heard me! ... What do you know why call my talent?
Were it not for that chatterbox of Cupid, to ignore me in Alcira singing and I'm known out here.

Rafael
was crushed by the reply, did not dare to protest.

- Vamos, Rafael - continued affectionately artist - do not be a child or intend to disturb me
with these little lies like those used to fool mom.

I know why he come here. Do you think you have not seen from this same balcony around the house
all afternoon, betting on the road like a spy? You found, sir.

The shy Rafael thought the balcony would collapse under their feet. Trembling with fear, arrebujábase
in the mantle of fur, without knowing what he did and complained to vigorous nodding, shaking
Leonora claims.

- "So not true, embusterillo? - Says it with comic indignation .-- So you deny that since we were
in the chapel, his walk each evening are around here? God mine! What a monster of falsehood
is this guy!

Lies with what aplomb!

And Rafael, vanquished by the joy frank, finished laughing, admitting with a laugh his crime.

-
You will be surprised by my actions and words - Leonora went closer to him, supporting on
his shoulder, with fraternal abandon, as if with a friend .-- I do not I'm like most women. Well
out with the life I live show me hypocrite! ... My poor aunt thinks me mad, because I say things the
way I feel, in my life I have wanted much or hate me for this hobby not hide the truth ...
Do you want it say? ... Well, you've come here because they love me, love me or at least believed,
the defect of all boys his age just find a woman who is not equal
to the others known.

Rafael was silent and downcast, not daring to look up, he felt in his neck look of those green eyes
that seemed to register you for the soul.

- Let's see, you lift the head a little protest as before.

Is it true or not what I mean?

- What if he dared to sigh ?...-- Rafael, looking suddenly discovered.

- As I know it's true I wanted to lead this discussion so that you do not live in deception. After
what happened tonight I want to be friends, friends only, two comrades
united by the appreciation.

But to avoid confusion, we had to make our respective situations. We'll be friends, eh? ...
This is your house, I consider it a nice fellow; so tonight you won
in my mind rather than a continuous treatment, but you will to promise
not to repeat such an offense in that nonsense about loving admiration
has always been the torment of my life.

- What if I can not ?...--
murmured Rafael.

- The usual mantra - Leonora laughed, imitating
the voice and the expression of the young .-- What if I can not?

Why should not you be? Why it must be true that love so great by a woman who sees you now for
the second time?

Such is the sudden passions invent you, they are not true, they have
learned in the novels and we have heard sung by in the operas.

Inventions poet who swallowed boys like suckers and want to transplant to life, not realizing
that we are in the secret laugh at his folly. With which as you know, to be formal, not to get
heavy with tender eyes and broken sentences. So we will be friends and this will be your home.

Leonora paused and threat thanks to the index, added:

- Otherwise,
I will be ungrateful and cruel what you want, but despite the beautiful
action tonight, you will not come here anymore.

Not worship, I have come seeking rest, friends, relax ... Love! Beautiful and cruel hoax!
...

He said these last words with an accent grave, and lay still for a long time, looking lost in
the vast sheet of water.

Rafael looked now. Had raised his head thoughtfully and looked at Leonora. Its beautiful face
was tinged with a bluish light that seemed to envelop her in a halo of idealism. Began to
dawn and the sky leaden veils torn apart by the sea, by transparently
clarity livid.

Leonora shivered as if he felt cold, clutching instinctively against Rafael. Seemed shaking
with a nod a rush of painful thoughts, and said holding out his hand:

- What do we solve it? Friends or indifferent? Do you promise not to engage in childish things
and be a formal comrade?

Rafael eagerly shook the hand soft, hard and feeling in his fingers as loving bite, the contact
of the rings.

- Dude! ... I resign as there is no other choice.

- You resign and you will find is sweet and tolerable that he believes
a sacrifice you are not me known, but believe me I know well.

Although come to love (and this will never) you would lose. I am worth more as friends than as
lovers. In the world more than one and two who know it well.

- I'll be a friend willing to do for you more than tonight.

I also hope that you get to know.

- Let your promises. What else must you do for me? The river does not overflow every day, nor are
possible at any moment these fictional exploits. I just what this night. You do not know how
much I appreciate it. It was a milestone in my heart for friend ... Do you want to remain free?
Then when I met him there in the chapel, it seemed you one of those
gentlemen villagers, accustomed to triumph in the village, they look
like its domain are few women.

Then, seeing him hanging around the house, was increased My contempt and my anger. "But that will
be featured señoritín what?" What we have laughed at Beppa coast you and me! I had not even
set in his face and figure: I had not realize that you are cool ...

Leonora laughed recalling his anger against Rafael, and he, stunned by his candor, smiling
also to hide his embarrassment.

- But after tonight, I want you ... as a good friend. I am alone: friendship of a good and noble
boy like you, capable of sacrifice for a woman who hardly knows,
is welcome.

Moreover, this does not compromise. I am a bird of passage: I came
because I'm tired, sick, dunno, but deeply broken in my spirit.

Need resting, wildlife, sink into a sweet stupidity, forget everything, and accept with appreciation
a helping hand.

Then the day know it, you, get up the flight, the first morning you wake up happy and I sing
in the bird's head so many crazy naughty me has recommended, I pack
up and move the wings!

I write, I will send periodic talk about me and you look like you have a friend who does not
forget and greets from London St. Petersburg, or New York, any of
the corners of this world that many think big and in which I can not
turn round without bumping into annoyance.

- So late this time! -
.-- Rafael said that never comes!

- Crazy! - Said Leonora .-- You
do not know how I am.

If he were here a long time, we would end to scold and beat us. In the background I hate men,
I have always been his most terrible enemy.

Behind heard the rustle of the gown which trailed Cupid strutting grotesque: it approached
Dona Pepita balcony to watch the sunrise.

Began to plummet from the sky a light gray, sifted through the dense
cloudscape: the immense sheet water took a whitish color of absinthe.

Floating in the stream like broom of misery the remains of the flood
uprooted trees, bundles of reeds, thatched roofs the huts, all dirty,
greasy, nauseating.

These rafts of the disaster became entangled between the orange and barriers were gradually thicken
with new offal were current.

Far on the edge of the lagoon regularly moved about some black spots, stirring their legs like aquatic
flies, around houses, scarcely protruding roofs, on the vast sheet of water. Relief supplies
were arriving from Valencia, the boats of Navy, brought by rail to the edge of the flood.

Alcira
Iban reach the authorities, the presence of Rafael was indispensable.

The same Cupid, with sudden seriousness, advised him to go and meet
the boats.

While the barber regained his suit, Rafael took off to the disgust of his fur coat.

He felt that leaving her, he would lose the heat of the night of sweet intimacy, Contact fleshy
soft shoulder that had been leaning against him for hours.

While the clothes fit the body of his suit and dry, Leonora was staring.

- It is understood, huh? - Asked slowly .-- Friends, more hopeless.

Breaking you the pact, will not come here, even from the balcony as tonight.

- Yes, friends and nothing more - Rafael murmured with a sincere tone of sadness that seemed to move
Leonora.

Her green eyes lit up, flashed gold dust dappled his eyes and walked toward Rafael, extending
his hand.

- Good boy, so I like: resigned and obedient. By this time, and as a reward for his sanity,
there will be extraordinary. No way ... we say goodbye As in the scene. Kiss you.

And he put his hand to the level of the mouth of the young. Rafael eagerly grabbed her and
kissed and kissed until Leonora, detachment with an abrupt move that demonstrated his extraordinary
strength, threatened him with his hand.

- Ah, rogue! ... Naughty Baby! What a way to abuse! Goodbye! Bye Cupid called ... Up view.

-
And he pushed the balcony, to which iron was the barber caught holding the boat.

- Salta, Rafael - Cupido said .-- Lean on me, the water drops and
the boat is very low.

Rafael slipped into his white boat, the water stained red. The barber pulled the oars; began
to walk away.

- Goodbye! Bye Thank you very much! - Shouted from the balcony of her aunt, the girl and all family
gardener.

Rafael, leaving the helm, with his face turned to the house, just saw that arrogant figure, greeting
them waving a handkerchief.

He saw a long time, and when the tops of the trees submerged hid the balcony, head bowed, giving
the silent pleasure taste the sweetness was still on his lips.
VI

The elections set in motion the entire district. It was time
solemn for the house of Brull and all the faithful, not sure yet of
the omnipotence of the party, as if they feared a hidden enemy that
might arise unexpectedly stirring in the city and throwing people
shout of victory which the name of Rafael.

Few remembered the flood.
The beneficent sun had dried the fields, orchards were more beautiful
than ever, as if the river to invade, they had fertilized new life,
announcing a magnificent harvest, and only as a reminder of the catastrophe
was hedge some crushed, some close to crumbling, a hollow way to the
slopes destroyed. 

Everything was repaired relatively quickly and
people talking about the past showed himself happy danger with contempt.
Until the next!

Also, a lot of money had been distributed. Relief
arrived in the capital of the province, Madrid, in Spain, thanks to
the pitiful trumpeting the press, and the gardeners, with the credulity
of the devotee who gives all his property to protect the patron, thanking
alms to Rafael and his mother, intending to be ever more faithful
to the powerful family. Viva the father of the poor!

Dona Bernarda,
looking ahead to realize their dreams of ambition, not given a time
rest. Indignant at the indifference and coldness of his son. The district
was his, but did not have to sleep. Who knows what could be done late
enemies of order that was enough in the city? Had to go to such people
to say four words to rich voters, visit the mayor's another to see
who paid attention to move much, that all people cared for him.

And
Rafael obeyed, but should not accompany him Don Andres, as on the
outward or return spent a few hours in the blue house or completely
abolished the trip to stay there trembling to return home if his mother
found out such distractions.

Doña Bernarda know this new friendship.
No other health concerns and actions Raphael, and helped by the curious
gossip of a city, nothing was his son who did not I knew a few hours.
Even had news, an indiscretion of Cupid, in that risky overnight trip
and through the dangers of flooding, to go to report to the comic
as she said with angry tone of contempt.

Then occurred the stormy
scenes that had to leave a deep impression Rafael of bitterness and
fear.

The hardness of the character of Dona Bernarda broke the young
man, making him understand how reason he had always feared her mother.
The harsh devotee, with his shield of virtue and sound principles,
crushed her first words. Had he proposed to dishonor the house? Now
that after many years of work was to achieve the fruit of many sacrifices
did you want for your hobby a comic, make a fool of a cause of mockery
of the enemy? E indignant, did not hesitate in brutally rip the veil
of caution after which mysteriously had developed their misfortunes
and their anger conjugal did not hesitate to dump on the head of every
child hidden misery of her marriage.

- The same as your father -
angry Dona Bernarda exclaimed .-- You can not deny his blood: womanizer
Friend of the losses, which can compromise by any of the luck of the
house ... And I very great fool, working for them! Then: "Well, some of the fellows don't
understand, Don. You can't altogether blame them, I suppose. I shut two or three of them up,
but there's bound to be some talk, you know. Some fellows always manage to think of the meanest
things possible. But what fellows like that say isn't worth bothering about. So just you sit
snug, old man. They've already found that they can't say that sort of thing when I'm around."

"Thanks," said Don quietly. "What sort of things do you mean?"

"Oh, anything."

"You mean that they're calling me a quitter?"

"Well, some of them heard Robey get that off and they're repeating it like a lot of silly parrots.
I called Holt down good and hard. Told him I'd punch his ugly face if he talked that way again."

"Don't bother," said Don listlessly. "I guess I do look like a quitter, all right."

"Piffle! And, hang it all, Robey had no business saying that, Don! He couldn't really believe it."

"Why couldn't he? On the face of it, Tim, I'd say that I looked a whole lot like a quitter."

"But that's nonsense! Why would you or any fellow want to quit just before the Claflin game? She was pretty, with the freshness of youth. Her eyes gray, large,
gullible, simple and frisky lamb, straight hair, white-blond, hung in faint streaks on the brown
face and red, dotted with freckles. Handled with clumsiness the closed umbrella, and then he
glanced anxiously double gold chain coming down from neck to waist, as if he feared the disappearance
of a long gift requested.

Rafael left to examine to look at his wife. His view that ran neck topped by the tight blonde
hair, a gold crest, white collar, round, fleshy; broad and slender back, hidden under a blue
silk blouse, slimming lines quickly at the waist and widening later, to mark the contour of the hips
under the gray skirt harmonic folds tight cloths like a statue, and whose edge appeared the solid
English shoes heels, locking the foot small, agile and strong.

The woman called her maid. His sonorous voice, pasty, vibrant, launched a few words of Rafael
could barely reach the main syllables. The silence of the tall rustling folded and seemed
confused, but the young man was sure he had not spoken in Spanish. It was indeed a foreign ...

Showed admiration and enthusiasm for the picture, he spoke quickly to his home, pointing major towns
from there he saw, citing them by name, which was all clearly coming to the ears of Rafael. Who
was this woman never seen speaking foreign language and knew the country? Perhaps the wife of
a French or English exporter of those who had settled in the city for the purchase of Orange.
And forced by isolation and vulgarity of his life to a painful continence, his eyes devouring the
contours this woman, backs superb, opulent and elegant that seemed to defy indifference.

Rafael saw how carefully he left his home the hermit, a rustic living of people visiting those heights.
Attracted by the appearance of the unknown lady presented health by offering water to the tank
and discovered in his honor the miraculous virgin.

He turned the lady to answer the hermit, and then could contemplate Rafael with all tranquility.
She was tall, very tall, maybe he had the same height, but softened by curves that exposed the
robustness combined with elegance. The opulent and strong chest and a head on it which made
a deep impression on Rafael. He seemed to see through a cloud - the warm vapor of emotion - green
eyes, big, bright, funny nose of pulsing alillas and pink, and blond hair that fell over his
white skin, with slides of nacre, faintly streaked with blue veins. It was a profile of modern
beauty, funny and hot. Rafael thought those features found in the footprint of countless artists.
Had seen before. Where? ... I did not. Maybe in the illustrated newspapers, on the albums of beauties
artistic, it was possible that the boxes of matches played fashionable beauties. The fact was
that at that face seen for the first time in his memory felt the same impression that finding a
friendly face after a long absence.

The hermit, excited by the hope of a tip, llevábalas to the chapel, at whose door Weird peeked his
wife and daughter, dazzled by the huge bright twinkling in the ears
of the unknown.

- Between you, SEÑORET - said the rustic .-- Lady
will teach you know?

Our Lady of Lluch, legitimate, he came alone from Majorca here. Back in Palma believe they have
true, but what they have to say? Rage makes them the idea that Our Lady prefers Alcira, and here
she is, proving it is true with the portentous miracles it performs.

Opened the door of the little church cool and shady as a warehouse, showing in the background,
stuck in a dull gold baroque altar, the small image in the mantle gap and the black face.

The good man, rattled, and who knows by heart the story of the image. It was the Virgen del Lluch,
the patron saint of Mallorca. A hermit came fleeing from there, it was not why: perhaps some
of the Saracens in the time of wars and atrocities, and save Our Lady of desecration, brought her
to Alcira, building this sanctuary. Came then from Mallorca to restore her to her island, but
as the celestial lady had law took Alcira and its inhabitants, flying over the sea again without
getting wet feet, and the Balearics, to conceal this event as an image carved. It was all
true, and as test there was the first hermit buried at the foot of the altar, and there the Virgin
with her face black as a result of the sun and humidity of the sea
that darkened in his miraculous journey.

The lady listened to the good man, smiling slightly, her maid, kept his ears to fear of losing any
word of a half-understood language, and his big eyes peasant credulous,
would the image of the narrator, expressing admiration for so portentous
miracle.

Rafael had followed into the chapel, and was approaching the stranger who affected not to see
him.

- This is a tradition - he dared to say when the rustic finished his story .-- You understand
you, madam, that no one accepts such things here.

- I think so - the beautiful stranger replied gravely.

- Treason
or not, Don Rafael - growled the hermit with discontent - and was
told by my grandfather and all of his time, and so people think.

When so much has been said, there must be.

In the patch of sunlight cast by the doorway on the tiles, it marked the shadow of a woman.

It was a poorly dressed gardener.

He looked young, but his face pale and flaccid as paper marking the outgoing and cavities
of his skull, eyes sunken and dull and wicks dirty hair escaped from under the knotted handkerchief,
dábanla aspect of disease and misery.

Walking barefoot, with shoes in hand, swinging painfully, with legs apart, as if you experience
great pain when putting plants in the ground.

The hermit knew a lot, and while the unhappy, panting from the ascent, and pain of her bare feet, was
dropped on a bench, he told his story in a nutshell Mrs and Rafael.

She was very ill, a condition of the matrix which ended with it quickly. I did not believe doctors
who, she says, "playing tricks with words", also repugnant to the
modesty of good Women, educated Christian, given to outrageous displays
of diseased organs.

I knew the only cure: the Virgen del Lluch would eventually heal.

And every week, barefoot with shoes in hand, painfully climbing the hill, in her garden she
could hardly move chair and the husband needed to guard the house
trappings.

The hermit approached the sick, taking a piece of copper in his hand. Wanted a joy as ever, eh?

-
Visanteta, gocho uns! - Shouted the rustic hovering at the door.

He went into the church his daughter, a MøreNot Bouncers and dirty,
with African eyes: a beauty seemed rustic getaway in a horde.

He settled on a bench, turning his back to the Virgin and grumpy gesture
which is forced to do every day the same thing, and with a hoarse
voice, torn, angry, that shook the walls of the sanctuary, began a
slow chant, singing the story Image and mighty miracles.

The sick woman, kneeling before the altar and hold the shoes, showing
the skirts the soles of the feet bruised and bloody by scratches from
the stones, repeating the chorus after each stanza, imploring the
protection of the Virgin.

His voice sounded weak, sad wail of a sick child. His haggard eyes in the image with a painful
expression of supplication, and covered with tears as her voice sounded increasingly shaky and
distant.

The beautiful stranger showed some emotion at the sight.

The maid knelt and continuing with the head movements of singing chant, pray in a language
that finally Rafael knew, was Italian. The lady looked at the patient with eyes of pity.

- What a thing is faith! - Sighing voice murmured.

- Yes, ma'am, a beautiful thing.

And Rafael had added a sentence rhetoric and brilliant of the many who had read healthy authors
on the greatness of faith, but in vain searched his memory, there
was no nothing, that woman deeply disturbed her shyness alone.

They finished the joys. In the last stanza the wild singer disappeared, and the sick incorporating
work, getting up after several painful attempts.

The hermit approached her with the gift of a shopkeeper who extols genres establishment .-- Was
that better? Did you try the trip to the Virgin?

... The poor sick increasingly pale, revealing a terrible grimace of pain he suffered in stitches
his heart, he dared not answer for fear of offending the miraculous
Lady.

"I did not know! ... Yes .. really should be better ... But that climb! ... This promise had not
been as good result as the previous ones, but she had faith: the
Virgin would be good for her and heal.

"

On leaving the church, as he unveiled his hope with broken words, was both pain, which almost lay
on the ground.

The hermit placed in his chair and ran after to the tank to bring a glass of water.

The Italian girl, with eyes wide with fright, was to the poor woman
consoling words tore loose pity "Povera!

Poverina! ... Coraggio! "And the gardener, in the midst of his weakness, he opened his eyes
to look at the foreign, not understanding the words, but guessing its tenderness.

The lady came to the square. He seemed deeply impressed by that pain. Rafael's pretending was distracted,
a little ashamed of his insistence, and wishing at the same time
an opportunity to resume the conversation.

Breathed Mrs. amplitude to be in the open space, huge, where the view
lost in the blue horizon.

- My God - he said as if talking to herself
.-- How sad and what a joy at the same time!

This is very beautiful. But that woman! ... That poor woman!

- For years now, and I see - Rafael said, pretending to know much, though until then seldom had
noticed the poor gardener .-- All-in-class people are very special.

They despise doctors, not serve them, and kill with these barbaric
devotions from which they expect health.

- Who knows if his is the
best!

Evil is invincible, and science can against him both and faith.

Sometimes, even less ... And to think, laugh and enjoy while evil
runs through our rozándonos side without being seen!

...

This did not know what to say Rafael. But what was this woman? What mode of expression, Gentlemen!
Poor boy accustomed to vulgarity and soseces of friends of his mother, and under the impression
that I find deeply troubled him, believed to be in the presence of a sage in skirts, a philosopher
come from far away in some dark beer German, to disturb him in the guise of beauty.

The stranger was silent, his eyes fixed on the horizon.

In her mouth, large, sensual and fleshy lips, and among them loomed
the magnificent and bright teeth, seemed to point a smile caressing
the landscape.

- How beautiful is this! - Said without turning to
his companion .-- I wanted to see him again!

Finally got the chance to make the desired question was offering herself.

-
Are you in here? - Asked in a tremulous voice, fearing that his curiosity
was repelled by contempt.

- Yes, sir - only answered the lady.

-
As it is particular.

I've never seen you ...

- No wonder. I arrived yesterday.

- As I said! ... I know everyone in town.

My name is Rafael Brull, and I am son of Don Ramon, who was mayor of Alcira often.

He had already released. The poor boy felt the itch to give his name, to say who was to sound that
name famous in the district to acquire personality enhancement to
the unknown.

Influenced by her example, may say who it was.

But beautiful lady merely followed his statement with ah! of cold
surprise, that did not reveal even if your name was familiar.

But at the same time, he wrapped a glance research and mocking that seemed to say:

- This guy has good presence, but must be stupid.

Rafael blushed, realizing he had made a simplicity to give his name and no one it asked, with
the same solemnity as if you were in the presence of a rustic district.

It was a painful silence. Rafael wanted out of this situation, it bothered him to see that glacial
woman, indifferent to treat you with courtesy dismissive, arguing
with great correction distances to avoid familiarity.

But as early as the slope, dared to follow asking

- What do you spend much time in Alcira? ...

Rafael thought the ground sinking beneath his feet.

A new look for green eyes: but this time cold, menacing, something
like livid lightning, reflected in the ice.

- I do not know ...--
answered with a slowness that seemed to emphasize his disdain .--
I use to leave sites when I annoyed them.

And after a pause, looked at Rafael's face to greet you with a cold nod.

- Good afternoon, sir.

Rafael was stunned. He saw how he went to the doorway of the sanctuary by calling the maid. Each of
his steps, each swing of the hips arrogant, seemed to raise a barrier
between her and Raphael.

The saw gardener leaning affectionately on the sick, opened a small satin bag that had her maid,
and sifting through junk bright and embroidered handkerchiefs pulled the hand full, shining
silver in her fingers.

Poured on the apron of the astonished peasant gave something back to the hermit, who showed no less
start, and opening the red umbrella set off followed by the maid.

Passing by Rafael, the latter replied to sombrerazo inclined elegant,
almost without looking, and started down the rocky slope of the mountain.

The

continued the young man looked at through the pines and cypresses grow smaller viewing woman
proud of her body strong and healthy.

Around him seemed to float even your perfume, as if to let him get away wrapped in environmental
superiority of exotic elegance that emanated from his person.

Rafael saw the hermit approached, desirous of communicating his admiration.

- Quina lady! said putting his eyes to express his enthusiasm.

He had given a hard, white slice of that for many years, because of the low faith, did not rise
to those heights. And there was Visanteta, poor sick, sitting in the chapel door staring at
her apron, as if hypnotized by the brilliance of a handful silver, hard, single and double pesetas,
coins of fifty cents, all content bag, even a golden button should
be of a glove.

Rafael participated in amazement.

But who was this woman?

- What do I know? - Answered the peasant. And guided by the incomprehensible words of the maid, added
with conviction: - Be a fransesa ... A rich fransesa.

Rafael returned to continue the sight of the two umbrellas that went down the slope as insects
color. Declining rapidly. It was not the greatest of a red dot, and was lost down on the plain
between the green masses of the first orchards ... had disappeared.

And when he was alone, all alone, Rafael suffered a big explosion
of anger.

It seemed odious the place where so shy and had proved so clumsy. He resented seeing the flash
still there that look cool, repel, taking a wide berth. He was ashamed of the memory your
stupid questions.

And to answer the greeting of the hermit and his family, rushed down the hill hoping rediscover
it did not know where. The red rolling stones under his feet. The heir Don Ramon's, hope the
district, was furious, waving his hands with a nervous tremor, as if to slap. And with aggressive
tone, as if I talk to her that leaving walking body sheath in front
of him, shouting:

- Idiot!

... Stupid ... Provincial!

IV

Doña Bernarda did not suspect the reason why his son got up the next
day pale and haggard as he has had a bad night.

Not even his political friends guess afternoon the reason why Rafael, making good time, was to
withdraw into the atmosphere Casino dense.

The most boisterous fellow surrounded him to talk once again of the great news that brought a
week ago stirred the party.

They were to be dissolved the Cortes newspapers not talking about
something else.

Within two or three months before the end of the year, new elections and with them the loud
and unanimous triumph of the candidacy of Rafael.
Don Andrés and the most serious of his followers, was thinking about
remembering dates and making accounts with the fingers, as courtiers
who form their calculations on the eve of the declaration Prince older.

The
intimate friend and lieutenant of the House of Brull, was the most
aware. If elections were verified at the time indicated by the newspapers,
short of some few Rafael months, five or six, to meet the twenty-five
years. But he had written to Madrid to consult the characters of the
party, Minister of the Government was willing and had previous Rafael
and although it lacks the age requirement, the district would be for
him. And not send Madrid more nursery. No more big shots unknown.
And all the gray brullesca is preparing for the fight with the noisy
enthusiasm of one who knows that victory is assured beforehand.

All
these events left Rafael cold. He, they desired the arrival of elections
to be free, back in Madrid, remained insensitive that afternoon as
if were about the fate of another.

Looking forward to the table where
Don Andrés sitting with three other notables playing your daily departure,
and waited for the moment which came to sit beside usual to him, that
he considered his duties as Regent, sheltering under the authority
and wisdom master the Crown Prince. 

Good middle of the afternoon,
when the room was less crowded casino, the atmosphere is open and
quiet ivory balls on the green cloth, don Andrés adjourned the game
closer to his pupil, surrounded by supporters as always stickier and
sycophants.

Rafael pretending to listen while he prepared mentally
question the day before Andrew wanted to make a gift.

Finally he
decided:

- You who knows everybody. Who is a very pretty lady who
seems foreign and I found yesterday in the mountain of San Salvador?

The
old man began to laugh, throwing back his chair so shaken by the noisy
belly laugh, does not hit the edge of the table.

- Do you also have
you seen? - Said between the gasps of his laugh .-- Well, sir, that
city this! Arrived yesterday, and we all have seen, and do not talk
about something else. You are the only missing to wonder ... Jo! Jo!
Jo! But what city is!

Then extinguished his smile, which astonished
Rafael, quieter continued:

- Well, that foreign lady, as you say,
it's here, and was born in the same street you. Do not you know Dona
Pepa, the doctor, as they call it, a little lady who has a garden
by the river and lives in a blue house is flooded whenever the Júcar
up? Then Tim, his arms wrapped around Don's body like iron
bands, forced the latter back a step and against a chair which went crashing to the floor.
Don tore at the encircling arms, panting.

"I don't--want to--hurt you," he muttered, "but--I will--if you don't--let go!"

There was no answer from Tim, but the grip didn't relax. Don worked a hand under the other's
chin and tried to force his head back. Tim gave a little and they collided with the window-seat,
stumbled and slid together to the floor, Don on top. For a moment they writhed and thrashed
and then Don worked his right arm loose, slowly tore Tim's left hand away and held it down
to the floor.

"Let go or I'll punch you, Tim," he panted.

"Punch--ahead!"

Don strained until he felt Tim's other hand giving, and then, with a sudden fling of his body,
rolled clear and jumped to his feet. But Tim was only an instant behind him and, panting and
dishevelled, the two boys confronted each other, silent.

"I'm going out there," said Don after a moment.

Tim only shook his head and smiled crookedly.

"I am, Tim, and--and you mustn't try to stop me this time!"

"I've--got to, Don!"

"I'm giving you fair warning!"

"I know."

Don took a deeper breath and stepped forward. "Don't touch me!" he warned. But Tim was once
more in his path, hands stretched to clutch and hold. "Out of my way, Tim! Fair warning!" Don's
face was white and his eyes blazing.

"No!" whispered Tim, and crouched.

Then Don went on again. Tim threw himself in the way, a fist shot out and Tim, with a grunt,
went back against the pillows and slipped heavily to the floor.

Don's hands fell to his sides and he stared bewilderedly. Then, with a groan, he dropped to
his knees and raised Tim's head from the floor. "Gee, but I'm sorry, Timmy!" he stammered.
"I didn't mean to do it, honest! I was crazy, I guess! Timmy, are you all right!"

Tim's eyes, half-closed, fluttered, he drew a deep breath and his head rolled over against
Don's arm.

"Timmy!" cried Don anxiously. "Timmy! Don't you hear me! I didn't hit you awfully hard, Timmy!"

Tim sighed. "What--time is it?" he murmured.

"Time? Never mind the time. Are you all right, Tim?"

Tim opened his eyes and grinned weakly. "Hear the birdies sing, Don! It was a lovely punch!
Help me up, will you?"

Don lifted him to the window-seat. "I'm horribly sorry, Tim," he said abjectedly. "I--I didn't
know what I was doing, chum! I wish--I wish you'd hand me one, Tim! Go on, will you?"

Tim laughed weakly. "It's all right, Donald. Just give me a minute to get my breath. Gee, things
certainly spun around there for a second!"

"Where'd I hit you?"

"Right on the point of the jaw." Tim felt of the place gingerly. "No harm done, though. It
just sort of--jarred me a bit. What time is it?"

Don glanced at the tin alarm clock on his dresser. "Ten of seven," he answered. "What's that
got to do with it?"

"Well, you can't make the seven-one now, Donald, unless you fly all the way, can you?"

"Oh!" said Don, rather blankly. "I--I'd forgotten!"

"Good thing," muttered Tim. "Wish you'd forgotten before! If anyone ever tells you you're a
nice good-natured, even-tempered chap, Don, don't you believe him. You send 'em to me!"

"I didn't know I could lose my temper like that," replied the other shamefacedly. "Timmy, I'm
most awfully sorry about it. From time to time we wrote my brother and I, and thus
did he know my fortunes and misfortunes, I'm your birth and your sister, then this marriage
of a rich American who took their land, the death of your mother and the paths that wouldst
with books from the classroom, and making it as going esponjándote man.

"Once your card at fault gave more than usual, which was very little, and the first I had at the
end of the month was yours and tell me that your father had died of a sunstroke bitter, or something
of this art. Absent your sister and full of family and property in the other band, were left alone
in here, and aticuenta in the world, although the means of fortune to brace it at your leisure.
 "Hand it here, Tim."

"I should say not! I'm going to read it!"

"No, please, Tim! It's just about two or three things I was going to leave you! Hand it over,
like a good chap!"

"Something you were going to leave me?" said Tim as he let Don wrest the sheet of paper from
him. "Oh, I see. Well,"--he felt carefully of the lump on his chin--"I guess you left me enough
as it is, dearie!"

CHAPTER XX

AMY APPEARS FOR THE DEFENCE

PRACTICE on Monday was a wretched affair. To be sure, many of the fellows who had played in
the Chambers game had been excused, but that didn't account for the fact that those who did
take part went at their work as if half asleep. Both McPhee and Cotter failed to get any life
into the first, and the second, while it, too, seemed to have taken part in the general slump,
managed to score twice while the first was with difficulty wresting three touchdowns from its
opponent. Mr. Robey shouted himself red in the face, Steve Edwards, who followed practice,
pleaded and exhorted, and a stocky, broad-shouldered, bearded individual who made his appearance
that afternoon for the first time frowned and shook his head, and all to small purpose. The
players accepted scoldings and insults as a donkey accepts blows, untroubledly, apathetically,
and jogged on at their own pace, guilty of all the sins of commission and omission in the football
decalogue.

There was much curiosity about the newcomer and many opinions as to his identity were hazarded
on the bench that afternoon. It was quite evident that he was a football authority, for Coach
Robey consulted him at times all during practice. And it was equally evident that they were
close friends, since the stranger was on one occasion seen to smite the head coach most familiarly
between the shoulders! But who he was and what he was doing there remained a secret until after
supper. Then it became known that his name was Proctor, Doctor George G. Proctor, that he was
a practising physician some place in the Middle West and that he was visiting Coach Robey.
But that was unsatisfactory data and some enterprising youth hunted back in the football records
and, lo, the mystery was explained. Eight years before "Gus" Proctor had played tackle on the
Princeton eleven and in his junior and senior years had been honoured with a position on the
All-American Team. Subsequently he had coached at a college in Ohio and had put said college
on the map. His life was a murky river,
monotonous, without brilliance or beauty, gliding silently as Júcar in winter. Al review their
existence, summarized in a nutshell. He had married, Remedios was his wife, Matias his father.
He was rich, fully available to a large fortune, sending despotically on the tough father of his wife,
the most fervent fans. His mother, as if efforts to intermarry with the wealth they had exhausted
the strength of his character, had fallen in a senile marasmus bordering on idiocy, with no signs
of life that staying in the church until the doors closed goodbye, and the rosary, continually
whispered the corners of the house, screaming and running away from the games of his grandchildren.
Don Andres had died, leaving her disappearance arbitrator and the party's absolute master Raphael.
Birth their three children, the diseases of childhood, with rabid tooth points pain, constipation
requiring the mother to spend the night awake and stupid pranks of his brother - the brother
of Remedios who feared him more than his father, influenced respect that infused his majestic
person - were the only events that had altered a little the monotony of their existence.

Every year acquired new properties, felt the thrill of pride watching
from the mountain of San Salvador - that hermitage ay! of tenacious
memory - large pieces of land here and there, surrounded by green
walls, on which the orange extendíanse in the correct rows.

Everything was his, the sweetness of the possession, drunkenness property subíansele to the head.

Upon
entering the old house, rejuvenated and transformed, experiencing the same printing of wealth
and power. The old cabinet where his mother kept the money was in the same site, but no longer
hidden quantities slowly amassed at the expense of sacrifice and deprivation to boost mortgages
and delete creditors.

No longer came to him on tiptoe, feeling the shadow now open following the harvest and his hands
shaking with happiness lost the wads of cash handed over by his father in exchange for oranges,
and thought with relish what this kept in banks and some day come to power.

The desire for wealth, land delirium had seized him as a delightful passion, honestly the only
life could be monotonous, always the same, marking the night hour by hour what would make the next
day. In the passion for wealth was some double infection.

Eight years of sleeping together, in chaste contact from head to foot, confusing the sweat of their
bodies and breathing their lungs, had finally infiltrate in Rafael a lot of hobbies and passions
of his wife.

The kid who ran scary meek and persecuted by him, and looked at him with sad eyes in his days of absence,
was a woman with all the firmness imperious and dominant superiority
females of the southern countries.

Cleaning and saving the character it took of intolerable tyranny. Scolded her husband if her
feet moved with the slightest lump of mud from the street to the hall, and stirred the house by going
head to all domestic discovered in the kitchen just a few drops of oil poured out of the vessel
or a piece of bread left in a corner.

- A pearl for the house: do not I tell you? - Murmured the father satisfied.

His virtue was intolerable. Rafael had wanted to love in the first
days of their marriage.

Wanted to forget, was the same passionate and playful outbursts of those days chased her through
the orchards. But she, after the first fever of love, their curiosity satisfied a maid at the
mystery of marriage, opposed forth a severe cold and passivity caresses of her husband. There was a
woman who found it was a coldly resigned female the duties of procreation.

On this she had her "own particular ideas and" as her husband back
in the courts.

The men want a lot of women was not good, that to surrender to the touch with tremors of passion
and abandonment of insanity, was typical of the bad, the losses. The good wife had to resign
to have children ... and nothing else, what would it were not filth, sin and abomination. Was
aware of people who knew what they were saying. And proud of that under rigid and rough as
spelled, her husband was offered a coldness that seemed to prick, with no other desire to launch
new children to the world that perpetuate the name of Brull and be proud grandfather Matias,
who saw in them a staff of characters destined for great things over.

Rafael lived enveloped in that same environment warm and mild household
honest, one afternoon, walking through Valencia, don Andrés showed
him smiling as if he hopes to turn away madness.

He had a wife and children, was rich. His father commissioned the guns of correspondents England,
on the block had every year a new horse, taking care the same Don Matías to buy the best that
was in the fairs of Andalusia. Hunt, galloped by district roads, distributing justice in the courtyard
of the house like his father, his three small, intimidated by his long trip to Madrid and more
familiar with grandparents with him, crestfallen colocábanse around his knees, silently waiting
for the kiss paternal everything around him was within reach of his desire, however, was not
happy.

Occasionally arose in the memory of the adventure of youth. The eight
years seemed a century.

Rafael felt isolated from those events throughout life. Leonora's face had vanished little by
little in his memory to be lost. Just remember green eyes, her hair shining like a golden helmet.
For some time aunt had died, that Dona Pepita, simple and devout, leaving her estate to the
Salvation the soul. The garden and the blue house was now his father, who had moved to his home
all the best, furniture and ornaments bought by Leonora at the time of isolation, while Rafael was
in Madrid and she dreamed of staying there forever.

Rafael avoided with great care back to the blue house. Feared cause
some susceptibility of his wife.

Was heavy enough at times her silence, her strange wisdom never allowed him to make the slightest
allusion to the past, while in his cold eyes and in the integrity with which abhorred the follies
of love guessed that the memory tenacious adventure that everyone had wanted to hide and that
deeply disturbed the preparations for your marriage.

When the deputy was alone in Madrid, free, and in his bachelor days,
the memory of Leonora came in its report freely, without coercion
that seemed troubled about downstairs in the family environment.

What would become of her?

What madness would have been delivered after that break yet Rafael did blush, as if atrocious
insults muttered his ear? Spanish newspapers talk some things out, and only twice found in them the
name of Leonora war, to realize their artistic triumphs. Had sung in Paris, as a French artist,
amazing purity of his accent, he had an opera premiered in Rome a young teacher, prepared by
the editorial claim as a great event. The work was like much, but the artist had been acclaimed
by the public, mad and tearful before your pathetic desperation in the final act, to mourn a
lost love.

Then nothing, no news, was eclipsed, driven, no doubt, love, dominated by vehemently that it was
preferred to follow the man as a slave. And Rafael, to think about it, I felt jealous, as
if he had any right over the woman, forgetting the cruelty with which he had said goodbye. That
dismissal was his remorse. Included Leonora had been for him the only passion, love happens
only once in the life hand. And he, rather than capture him, he had scared forever by an act
villain with a farewell cruel, whose memory was ashamed.

Coronado's orange orchards, the love had gone before him, singing the anthem of youth mad, unscrupulous
and ambitious, with an invitation to go on his trail, and he had answered with a stone on his
back.

Would no longer happen, I sensed. That mysterious, smiling and playful occurred only once on the
road. We had to close my eyes and keep clinging to the hand of woman offered. If you were a virgin,
well, if Leonora was a woman, well, had to settle for blindly, and he stopped as he, who was
down was lost, looked around a endless night, and never went back to pass before his eyes the love
laughing crowned with flowers, singing that song is heard only once
in life.

All efforts were in vain to get out of the monomania of its existence,
rejuvenate aging of mind shaking.

It sadly convinced that it was impossible to repeat adventure.

For two months he was the lover of Cora, a popular girl Fornos mezzanines, a Galician tall, slender
and strong (oh, like the other!) who had spent some months in Paris and to return there with his
hair dyed blond, collecting the dress with the same grace it is to do the trottoir on the boulevards,
mixed with sweet words in conversation French, mon cher calling everyone and giving it to read
in the organization dinner, glowed like a great courtesan among her
friends, with no more fanfare than the unfortunate flamenco and shameless
word brutal grace.

But he soon tired of those relationships. Cora's upper lip, sweating under the dust Rice, always
covered with a spray of health, he disliked like the snout of a beautiful vitality rude beast,
its cloying chatter, always turning over fashion, troubles money or the absurdities of her
friends, ended up causing nausea. Moreover, in what there was no love, or even whim. Cost him
little money and no such relationship, and he alarmed in their meanness of the rich, he thought
with regret in the future of their children as if it is damaged, as would face substantially increased
costs Remedies that so inexpensive, so ready to defend the penny,
without further wastage that the new garment for the virgin or the
loud party with full orchestra and forests of candles.

Severed relations with the Galician Boulevard, feeling a sweet relief to not have compare their
memories of youth with that passion which ended mercenary outbursts
of love with the submission of any bills to be paid in the morning
next.

Ended the shameful alliance that Rafael would be ashamed, just as his party occupied power back
and returned him to sit in the seats right near the bank ministerial as the former congressman.
It was time to work, to see if a good could push their way. He was appointed to the Committee
on Budgets and took upon himself the obligation to answer a number of amendments tabled by the
opposition to budget Grace and Justice. The minister was his friend: a respectable, solemn
marquis who had been absolutist and tired of Plato, as he said, finally
acknowledging the liberal regime while retaining their old ideas.

He shook the boy's trembling on the eve of exams. Studying at the library that had said on the subject
countless generations of deputies in a century of parliamentarism.

His friends Conference Room, all those defeated and fallen, the bohemian parliamentary I loved him
in return ballots to the stands, animábale prophesying a victory.

And not approached him and said: "When I was governor ..." drunk themselves with the splendor
of their glory dead, no longer asked him what he thought Don Francisco this or that, to take
deductions crazy answers.

He advised, according to indications dábanle what they had said or thought that to discuss the
budget in times of González Bravo, and ended by murmuring with a smile that caused shivers:
- There shall see, that you stay well.

And anyone herd of grumpy than waiting for a record never arrived, they ran like old horses to
the smell of gunpowder, to crowd into two bodies near the presidency,
just was assembled in the living room row with campanillazos could
not imagine that the young MP many nights interrupted his reading
with the temptation to throw against the wall thicknesses volumes
of the session, and chills just thinking with intense pleasure as
it would have been running the world behind green eyes whose golden
light seemed to see tremble between the lines of prose amazacotada
parliament.

II

- Agenda: Continued discussion of the budget of ecclesiastical duties.

In the chamber marked a movement of flight, the same panic that disbands armies and dissolves
the crowds. They got the most determined to escape and they were still in Flight entire groups, at
times clearing the seats.

The House was full from first thing.

It was day of mixed emotions: a discussion between the head the government and a former colleague
who was now in opposition, an old antagonism Compadres, which came to light the secrets of intimacy,
all the old tricks together to hold onto power. And the silent audience that delighted in this
boxing, Members who filled the seats, the two masses to be squeezed on both sides of the president,
undertook the flight to see over the incident, sabiéndoles a little
of both hours of allusions and sharp memories.

The speaker's name was going to talk about church obligations, contained a little that flight, had
the effect of a great historical record released in the middle of a dispersion. Some members
returned to their seats, watching the banks most extreme left where
red peeked back after a great white head, which shone glasses light
similar to that of a gently ironic smile.

The old man stood up. It was so small, so weak in body, still seemed
to be seated. The full force of his life had been concentrated on
the head, huge, noble lines, pink at the top, between the white tufts
pushed back. His pale face had that transparency Wax healthy and vigorous
old age, which added new glory silver beards, bright, bright as that
art always gives the Almighty.

Waiting with folded arms to cease
the rumor buzzing hive in revolt the lounge and had transposed the
last fugitives exit doors.

The next morning Mr. Fernald announced in chapel that at the request of Mr. Moller, and in
consideration of good behaviour, the faculty had voted to lift probation from the following
students: Hall----

But just there the applause began and the other eight names were not heard.

CHAPTER XXI

THE DOCTOR TELLS A STORY

TUESDAY, with the return of all first-string players to the line-up and the appearance of Tom
Hall once more at right guard, practice went about a hundred per cent better, and those who
turned out to watch it went back to the campus considerably encouraged. The showing of the
team naturally had an effect on the spirit of the mass meeting that evening. Ever since the
Southby game the school had been holding meetings and "getting up steam" for the Claflin contest,
but they had been tame affairs in contrast with tonight's. Brimfield was football-crazy now,
for the Big Game loomed enormous but four days away. This
was to fulfill the wish of the father grandfather aborted.

- This
one to be a lawyer! - Said Dona Bernarda possessed the same zeal that
old for that title that was the finishing of the family.

And lest the corruption of the city wake up in the child's father the same interests, frequently
sent to the capital don Andrés and wrote letter after letter to friends Valencia and in particular
a canon of his confidence, not to lose sight of the boy.

But Rafael was judicious, a serious young model as her mother told the good canon. The highlights
and awards of the College of Alcira continued in Valencia, and also Ramon and his wife found out from
the newspapers of the successes achieved by his son in the "Youth school law, "an evening meeting
in a classroom at the university, where future lawyers were released to discussing issues about
as original as the "French revolution been good or bad "or" socialism,
compared to Christianity.

"

Some guys terrible, that they should go home before ten, otherwise face the outrage of parents, declared
themselves rabid socialists and frightened the janitors, cursing the proposed subject property
- as soon as I finish the race - get a notary or registration. But Rafael, provided it was properly
measured and of these, contained on the right of the learned assembly,
and all issues holding the healthy approach, thinking with St. Thomas
and other scholars noted that the canon in charge of its direction.

These successes were soon being propagated by the party's weekly,
in order to build the glory of the head and enemies not dismissed
as biased, always began: "According to read in the press of the capital
"...

- What a boy! - Dona Bernarda said the priests of the population
.-- What gab!

Already you see, is another Manterola.

And the devout lady, when Rafael for holidays or vacations coming home, ever higher, in manner
that it seemed to him the quintessence of the distinction and clothing under the last dandy, it was
said with an ugly mother satisfaction:

- It will be a real boy. All the rich girls of the city you wish. No more to choose from.

Dona Bernarda felt proud to watch his Rafael, tall, thin and strong hands, big eyes, aquiline nose,
a curly beard and a certain grace and lazy rolling her body made
her look like one of those young Arabs and rich white slippers alquicel
who are the indigenous aristocracy in the colonies of Africa.

Each time he returned home the student, he was greeted by his father
with the same stroke molt.

The drive had been replaced by banknotes, but the powerful claws rested on his head, acariciábale
increasingly slack, weighed less.

Rafael, for his absence, he felt better than others the state of his father. I was sick, very
sick.

Erect as always, serious, imposing, talking little, but thinner, sunk the fiery eyes, it was only
the solid skeleton, marcábanse at the neck, before looked like the
neck of a bull, tendons and arteries between the loose skin and flabby,
and arrogant mustache, increasingly white, fell in dismay as a torn
flag.

The student was surprised by the gesture of anger, fierce eyes blurred
by tears of despair in which it hosted the mother of her fears:

-
To die sooner ... For what it does!

... May the Lord protect us from taking him soon.

Rafael was silent, not wanting to delve into the conjugal drama unfolding next to him, hidden
and quiet.

That gloomy vivant of insatiable appetites, engaged in debauchery dark and mysterious crossed
the stormy whirlwind of their last wishes. Manhood, to feel the closeness of old age, before
filing expired, burned him with more force, and the mighty boss burned
at the last glimpse of their animal exuberance.

It was a sunset that caught fire his life.

Always grimly serious and ran the district like a satyr crazy, no guide to desire, their encounters
brutal abuses of authority, came as a painful echo the manor house, where his friend Don Andrés tried
in vain to console the wife.

- But this man! - Dona Bernarda angry roar .-- That man is going to lose, does not look that
compromises the future of your child.

It was a crazy appetite in his fury, rushed on the green fruit, without seasoning. Fell awestruck
and trembling before his senile burning on the foliage of the gardens, in the stores orange, or evening,
at the edge of a road, off-the virgins childhood almost bald, with oiled hair, smooth chest and lean
members, sad, a thin boy, under the dirty skirts of misery. At night he went out claiming party's
needs and saw him enter the suburbs looking for day laborers ways disrupted by motherhood, whose
husbands work sent in advance in their gardens. He bought dozens of women's shoes, pay in stores
handkerchiefs and petticoats the next day were held only on the outskirts of the city. The most
enthusiastic adherents, without losing the traditional respect, spoke
with a smile of his weaknesses, and pointed out a number of the slum
urchin MøreNot, strong and grim, like a reproduction of Quef.

At night, when Don Ramón, exhausted by the struggle with the insatiable
demon that scraped the bowels, snoring painfully with a whistling
rattle in his lungs and trail of slime in the sad mustache, Dona Bernarda,
incorporated in the bed, his skinny arms on his chest, he looked grim,
with eyes that seemed to stab him and prayed mentally:

- Lord!

My God! That this man will die soon! That runs so disgusted!

And Dona Bernarda's God must have heard her, because her husband walked quickly towards death,
but as a believer, without flinching or feel fear, driven by that
name that consumed, without worrying about losing their strength and
cough that sounded like thunder far, creeping dread of the caverns
of his chest.

- Take care of yourself, Ramon, - said the priest friends,
only people who dared to refer to disorders of his life .-- Will you
getting old and his age, to live as a young man, is called death.

The chief smiled, proud at the bottom of the men knew their deeds, and again to sink into his
rabid dropsy, feeling that every shot of pleasure burned with new desires.

Even patted his son on seeing him enter the court, escorted by Mr. Andrew with law degree.
He gave his gun, a real gem, admired throughout the district, and a magnificent horse. And if you
just wait to see fulfilled the desire of the old Brull, which he did not know make, a few
days later he released his last cough, sounded plaintively all bells of the city, came out with
a black border to the weekly span of the game, and all the district as people came in procession,
to see if the corpse of the mighty Don Ramon Brull, who could stop or accelerate the course
of justice on earth, rotting same The remains of other men.

III

When Dona Bernarda was single and absolute mistress of her house,
could not hide his satisfaction.

Now what would a woman could.

Had the advice and experience of Don Andres, more than ever attached to it and figure Rafael, the
young lawyer named holder of Brull.

The prestige of the family remained unchanged. Don Andrés, who with the death of his employer had
purchased the house a second parent authority is responsible for maintaining relationships with the authorities
in the capital Madrid and the big shots.

At home, they attended the same requests, were received as faithful supporters and made identical
favors without the influence faint in places that don Andrés called "the areas of administration public.
"

Election of deputies arrived, and as always, took Doña Bernarda triumphant
individual appointed him from Madrid.

Don Ramon had left the machine and mounted perfectly adjusted; just
had the oil to continue to march, and there was his widow, always
active, just noticed the slightest squeak in the gears.

The provincial government is talking about the district with the same security as in the past.

-
It's ours. Brull's son has the same force as his father.

The truth was that Rafael was not very interested party. Gazed as one of the farms family whose
lawful possession no one could compete, and merely to obey her mother: - "Go to Don Andres Riola.
Our friends will be glad to see you. " And started Trip to suffer the torment of an interminable
paella, which supporters grieved him with excited joy and rustic gifts offered between fingers
.-- "should you to stop the horse a few days rest. Rather than go for the evening stroll to
the casino. The fellow complain because you do not see. "

And leaving those rides that were their only pleasure, sank in a dense environment, full of screams
and smoke, where he had to answer the most learned of the party, filling the saucers of coffee Ash
wanted to know who spoke better, Castelar or Cánovas, and in case of war between France and
Germany which of the two nations would overcome, issues that caused disputes and friendship cooled.

The unique relationship established voluntarily with the game was
when he took the pen and manufactured weekly for an article on "The
Law and Morality," or "Freedom and Faith" remnants advantage and laborious
student, long runs of platitudes with fragments Metaphysics lessons
that nobody understood and so very excited the admiration of fellow,
which Don Andres said winking:

- What a feather!

Huh? Any discussion with him ... How profound! ...

When his mother forced him at night to visit the home of a wealthy, which suited be happy, I
read, not as in Valencia the books you lent the canon, but works I bought as directed by the
newspapers that he respected his mother volumes with holy reverence that inspired the paper sewn
and bound, only comparable to contempt felt by newspapers devoted
almost all of them to insult the holy things and promote the instincts
of roguery.

Those years of reading at random and without scruples and fears of students, killed silently
many of their strong beliefs that broke the mold from the mother's
friends had gotten into his thought made him dream of a great life,
which had no news that around him.

French novels he moved to Paris that obscured the little-known Madrid at the time of the doctorate,
the stories of love waking up in your body young and virtuous no
other missteps that the vulgar outpourings of student debauchery,
a fierce adventures and complicated passions in beating some of the
intense fire that had consumed her father.

He lived in the ideal world of his readings, rubbing with elegant women, perfumed, spiritual, of true
art in the refinement of their vices.

The sunburned orchard that his father went mad and brutal aphrodisiac causábanle the same disgust
as if they were women of another race, creatures of a lower caste. The Misses of the city, seemed
to him disguised as peasants, with the same instincts of selfishness and economy his parents,
knowing the price it was sold oranges, knowing the number of hanegadas
that each candidate had their baby, adjusting the love of wealth and
believe that honesty was to be ruthless with anyone who did not fit
their traditional life and mean.

For this deep boredom caused him his life monotonous and gray, separated
by wide moat that purely imaginative afterlife enveloped him like
a perfume exotic and exciting, emerging from the pages of books.

Someday he would be free, raise their wings, and this release was
to take place when elected, he deputy.

Wanted to come of age as Crown Prince craves time to be crowned king.

From childhood he had come to expect this event would divide his life into two, introducing new ways
to go directly to glory and wealth.

- When my child is deputy - the mother told her rare outbursts loving expansion - as he's so cute,
I played the girls and marry a millionaire.

And looking forward to this age, life went by Raphael, without alteration
some, a candidate there, sure of his destination, awaiting the passage
of time enter into life.

It was as noble children of other ages, which are graced in the crib the monarch with a title of colonel,
playing spin the waiting time to go to catch head of his regiment. He was born MP and it would,
now expected between racks.

His trip to Italy, the papal pilgrimage, was all that disturbed the monotony of their existence.
Guided by the canon, most churches visited museums theaters only saw two, taking advantage of
looseness that caused travel adventures in the austere character of his guide. Passed indifferent to
the artistic works of the famous temples and stopped to worship any absurd relic accredited
by miracles. But still he could see dimly as Rafael passing, a world different from her country,
was fatally dragged its existence. He felt the touch of the very life of pleasure and passion that
absorbed in books like heady wine; and even from afar, admired in Milan's golden adventurous
bohemia of the singers, in Rome, the splendor of an oligarchy and
artist in perpetual rivalry with Paris and London and in Florence,
the elegant English emigrated in search of sun, taking his canotiers
Straw, the golden tresses of misses and bird chatter in the gardens
where pondered the bleak poet and recounted his jolly tales Boccaccio
to ward off the fear of plague.

That trip, quick as a cinematic vision, leaving a confusing tangle
of Rafael names, buildings, paintings and cities, served to give their
thoughts more fully and lightness, to make the gap even further isolated
him in his ordinary life.

Longed for the extraordinary, the original, he waved his sense of adventure youth, and owner
of a district nearly heir of a feudal lordship, read with respect superstitious a jerk, the name of
a writer, a painter either, "people lost what is not falling dead
", he declared his mother, but he secretly envied, imagining a life
full of pleasures and adventures.

Much would have to be a bohemian like the ones found in the books of Murge, forming merry band, walking
the joy of life and the fierce love of art by the bourgeois world agitated by the fever of
money and class mania! Talent to write beautiful things verses with wings like birds, a little
room under the tiles back in the Latin Quarter, a Mimi poor but sentimental, loved talking
to him two kisses of higher things and not Orange price as those ladies who followed him with
tender eyes, and in return this would give the future council and all the gardens of his estate, although
imposed by Father mortgage and cheating, it still provided an income
for their dreams dishonorable bohemian!

The continuous contact with these fantasies made her life intolerable boss forced to intervene
in the affairs of his supporters, and at the risk of upsetting his mother, fleeing the casino,
looking for the loneliness of the field.

There was developing more fluent their imagination, populated by beings fantastic the way and
groves, often talking aloud with the heroines ideals about love, arranged according to the pattern
of the last novel read.

One afternoon in late summer, Rafael climbed the little mountain of San Salvador, immediate to
the city. He liked to watch from that height the vast estate of the family. All the people who
inhabited the rich plain - as don Andres said describing the greatness of party - the name
of Brull had a cattle iron.

Rafael, following the rocky road of rapid zigzags, recalled the mountains of Assisi had visited
with his friend the canon, a great admirer of the Saint of Umbria. It was a landscape ascetic.
The blue or red rocks poking their heads on the sides of the road, pine and cypress trees out
of their grooves, extending over the barren land, their roots twisting and as a huge black snakes
at intervals, white pillars with roof, and in the center, occupying
a hollow tiles with the sufferings of Jesus on the streets of Bitterness.

Cypress Green waved his pointed hat as if to scare the white butterflies buzzing on rosemary and
nettles, the pines stretched above her parasol, casting spots shadow
on the burning road, where, hardened earth by the sun, crunched under
feet.

On reaching the plaza Rafael chapel, rested from the climb, lying in the bank masonry which
formed a large half moon to the sanctuary.

There reigned the silence of the heights.

The sounds from below, all the buzz of life and work constant of the vast plain, came overwhelmed
and crushed by the wind, like a whisper of a distant swell. Among the tight row of cacti that
stretched behind the bench, fluttering insects, shining in the sun like gold buttons, filling
the silence with tinnitus.

Some chickens - the Hermit - pecked at one end of the square, roughly clucking and shaking
their feathers.

Rafael is plunged in the contemplation of the beautiful panorama. No wonder they called it paradise
their former owners, the Moors, whose grandparents came out of the magical gardens of Baghdad
and accustomed to the splendor of the Arabian Nights, was entranced at the sight yet land for
the first time in Valencia.

In the great valley, orange groves like a velvet wave, fences and fencing vegetation less dark,
crimson land cutting into geometric forms, the groups of palm trees waving their suppliers of
feathers, and leaves that jets would like to touch the sky falling then languid fainting; villas
blue and pink, among clumps of gardening; white farmhouses almost hidden behind the green of
a wood stud, the tall chimneys irrigation machines, yellow and singed the tip tapers, Alcira,
with packed houses on the island and overflowing on the opposite
bank, all of it a matte color Bone, riddled with windows, such as
smallpox gnawed by a black hole.

Further, Carcagente, the rival city wrapped in the belt of lush gardens, for the sea, mountains angles,
corners, with edges that look like the fantastic away castles imagined by Doré, and at the
opposite end of the West Bank towns high, floating emerald lakes in their gardens, the distant
mountains in a violet hue, and the sun starting to drop like a hedgehog gold, sliding between
the gauzes formed by constant evaporation of irrigation.

Rafael, sitting up, looked behind the chapel floor throughout the West Bank, the extension of
rice under the artificial flood, rich cities, Sueca and Cullera,
poking its white houses on those fecund lagoons recalling the landscapes
of India, beyond the Albufera the huge lake and a strip of tin boiling
under the sun, which a distant murmur Valencia dust, marking storey
on the hazy blue mountains, and in the background, serving Limit to
this apotheosis of light and color, the Mediterranean, the Gulf blue
and trembling, kept by Cape San Antonio and Sagunto and Almenara mountains
cutting the horizon their black humps like great whales.

Looking Rafael in a hollow towers of the ruined convent of La Murta, almost hidden among pine forests,
evoked the tragedy of the Reconquest, lamented the fate of those
warriors alquiceles white farmers whose still seemed to float among
the orange trees, the magic trees of the paradises of Asia.

It was an atavistic affection.

The Moorish heritage he had in his melancholy and dreamy, he was regrettable - contrary to their
religious beliefs - the plight of the creators of that Eden.

He imagined the small feudal kingdoms of walis; domains similar to that of his family, only instead
of being grounded in the influence and the process, holding spear of those riders who tilled
the land as well pranced in meetings and meetings with elegance unmatched
by any gentleman. Valencia saw the court with his poetic Ruzafa gardens,
where poets sang mournful verses to the decline of the Moor Valencia,
listened to the beautiful, hidden behind the tall roses. You're too matter-of-fact. What you can't see you won't
believe in."

"I certainly won't! As the kids say, seeing's believing."

"Well, there's a very unattractive board fence across the road, George. On the other side of
it there are shrubs and grass. I can't see them, but I know they're there."

"More likely tin-cans and ashes," grunted Mr. Robey.

"Pessimist!" laughed the other. "But never mind; ashes or grass, something's there, and you
can't see it and yet you've got to acknowledge the existence of it. Now haven't you?"

"I suppose so, but"--Mr. Robey laughed--"I'd rather see it!"

"Climb the fence and have a look then! But you'll try my plan with the boy, won't you?"

"Yes, I will. If only to satisfy my curiosity, Gus. Hang it, the chap can't be a quitter!"

"He isn't. I'll stake my reputation as--as a romanticist on that! I'd like mighty well to stay
and solve the mystery with you, but I'll have to jump for that early train. I wish, though,
that you'd drop me a line and tell me the outcome. I'm interested--and puzzled."

"All right. I'm not much of a letter-writer, though. I'll see you before you go back and tell
you about it. You'll be in New York on Sunday, won't you?"

"Until two o'clock. Have lunch with me and see me off. Come to the hotel as early as you can
and we'll hold post-mortems on the games. Let's hope that Princeton and Brimfield both win
next Saturday, George!"

CHAPTER XXIII

CROSS-EXAMINATION

DON found being a hero an embarrassing business the next day. The masters bothered him by stopping
and shaking hands and saying nice things, and the fellows beamed on him if they weren't well
enough acquainted to speak and insisted on having a full and detailed history of that train-wreck
if they were! Of course they all, masters and students, meant well and wanted to show their
admiration, but Don wished they wouldn't. It made him feel horribly self-conscious, and feeling
self-conscious was distinctly uncomfortable. At breakfast table his companions referred to
last evening's incident laughingly and poked fun at Don and enjoyed his embarrassment, but
it wasn't difficult to tell that Doctor Proctor's narrative had made a strong impression on
them and increased their liking for Don. When, just before Don had finished his meal, Mr. Robey
left the training-table and crossed the room toward him he braced himself for another scene
in which he would have to stand up and be shaken by the hand, and possibly, and worst of all,
listen to some sort of an apology from the coach. But Don was spared, for Mr. Robey only placed
a hand on the back of his chair, included the rest of the occupants of the table in his "Good-morning,"
and said carelessly: "Gilbert, I wish you'd drop over to Mr. Conklin's office some time this
morning and see me. What time can you come?"

"Half-past ten, sir?"

"That will be all right, thanks."

The coach returned to his table, leaving Don wondering what was up. Possibly, he thought, the
coach wanted to make some sort of retraction of his accusation of Saturday, although Don didn't
believe that Mr. Robey was the sort to funk a public apology. If it wasn't that it could only
be that he was to be offered his place on the team again. Don sighed. That would be beastly,
for he would have to tell more fibs, and brand new ones, too, since not even a blind man would
believe him ill now! It was something of a coincidence that Don should run across Walton in
the corridor a few minutes later. Don was for passing by with no recognition of the other,
but Walton, with a smirk, placed himself fairly in the way. Disturbed
with his passion to the musician and was in turn touched and transfigured by the atmosphere of fervor
artistic surrounding the illustrious disciple of Wagner.

The revelations from him, the Master, as Hans Keller said with unction, flashed before the eyes
of the singer, as the lightning became Paul on the Damascus road. Now was clear. The music was not
a means to delight the crowds, showing off the beauty and worldwide leading a life of famous
courtesan, was a religion, the mysterious force which relates the inner infinite immensity that
surrounds us. I felt the same anointing the repentant sinner who wakes up in religious fervor does
not hesitate to sink in cloister. It was Magdalena, played in the middle of a life of frivolity
and gallantry crazy scandals by the mystic sublimity of art and was
thrown at the feet of Him, the sovereign master, as the most victorious
of men, lord of the sublime mystery that mob souls.

The image of the great dead outbursts seemed to witness all of that love, passion mix carnal
and mystical arts: her blue eyes, deep in the wilderness, crossed
the walls the cottage on the outskirts of Munich, where he cooed in
mind, the disciple enthusiastic and devoted.

- Tell me about the
- Leonora said rubbing his head on the chest hard German musician,
with sweet abandon of passion .-- How satisfied would have known him
like you!

... Still I saw him in Venice were his last days ... was dying.

And conjured that meeting, one of his strongest memories and well
delineated.

The fall encouraging later reflections of opal with dark waters of the Grand Canal from a gondola
next to hers in the opposite direction, and her blue eyes, compelling, brilliant, eyes of those
who can not be confused, they are glass windows behind which shines the chosen divine fire,
the demigod and that seemed to envelop her in a flash of light caerulea. He was, he felt sick,
would die. His heart was wounded, perhaps pierced by mysterious melodies, how those virgin
hearts that bleed on altars bristling swords.

Leonora was smaller than it really was, shrunken and broken by grief,
leaning its enormous head of genius on the breast of his wife Cosima.

He looked as if he had still ahead. He had removed the black felt to feel better in the cool of the
evening, waving his lank gray hair. Have a look covered his face Leonora spacious and bulging,
that Although it seemed all over your body like a chest full of mysterious ivory riches glaucous
and imperious eyes shining with the cold blue steel under the flag of bushy eyebrows, and nose
arrogant, strong as the beak of a bird fight, looking for above the sunken mouth sensual and
strong jaw framed by a gray beard running down the wrinkled neck straps and tendons. It was
a quick appearance, but he saw, and her figure little sore, bent by age and illness, remained
in his memory as these landscapes glimpsed the light of lightning. She saw him when he came
to Venice to die in the silence of the channels, in that quiet disturbed only by the stroke
of the oar, where many believed had perished years earlier while writing his Tristan, the hymn to
death pure and liberating. I was almost lying on the black boat, and the crash of water against
the marble of the palaces echoed in her imagination like the wailing horns and spooky burial Siegfried,
and he seemed to contemplate the hero of poetry going to Walhalla of immortality and glory, on a
shield of ebony, inert as the young hero of Germanic legend: followed by the wail of humanity, poor
prisoner of life are looking forward to a hole a loophole through which to penetrate the ray of beauty
to gladden and comfort.

And the singer, moved by the memory, watched with watery eyes the wide beret black velvet, a lock
of gray hair, two feathers worn and corroded steel, all the memories
of the teacher, kept piously in a case by Hans Keller.

- You knew
it, tell me how he lived.

Tell me everything: tell me about the poet ... the hero.

And the musician, not least emotion, evoked memories of Wagner.

Described it as I had seen in his time of health, small, tightly
wrapped in his overcoat, with a strong and heavy bones, despite its
thinness, restless as a nervous woman, as a vibrant spring package
with a bitter smile, contracting your lips subtle and color.

After came his genius, his whims had been a legend. Their work clothes, gold satin with buttons
that were flowers with pearls, her passionate love for the sumptuous colors, fabrics that spread
like waves of light in his study, velvets and silks with reflections of fire scattered over
the furniture and tables without utility, no other purpose than its beauty, to encourage the eye
with the incentive of its shades. And the teacher's clothes, all the brilliant stuffs of Oriental
splendor, impregnated rose essence, whole bottles strewn randomly, saturate the atmosphere
of a perfume fabulous garden, capable of beating the strongest and that excited the monster in
their struggle with unknown.

And then Hans Keller described the man, ever restless, shaken by mysterious blasts, unable to
sit unless it was at the piano or the dining table, receiving standing to visitors coming
and going by his room, his hands waving in nervous uncertainty relocating the couches, chairs
scrambling, looking for a cigar or glasses was not ever before removing
their pockets and torturing his velvet beret, so soon fall over one
eye and pushed toward the opposite end and had to throw to the top
with cries of joy or squeezed between his fingers clenched in the
heat of an argument.

The musician closed his eyes, thinking in silence still hear the waterfall and commanding voice
teacher. Oh! Where was I? From which closely followed that huge star melody of the stars, whose
echoes could only receive his ear? And Hans Keller, to stifle his emotions, sat at the piano
while Leonora, suggestions, approached him, stiff as a statue, and hands lost in the rough
haired musician, sang a fragment of the immortal Tetralogy.

The worship of the great dead of becoming a new woman. Keller worshiped as a reflection lost
one star off for ever felt the need to humiliate, sweetness of sacrifice as the devotee who worships
at the priest, seeing in him the man, but the choice of divinity. I wanted to kneel before their
plants so that the stepped for that would make carpet of her charms: she wanted to serve as a slave
to that lover who was the depositary of the thought of him, and seemed
gigantic for such a treasure.

Cuidábale servant with exquisite sweetness of love, he was in his trips to Leipzig, to Geneva,
to Paris in spring, when the big concerts, and she, the famous artist remained between racks without
feeling the nostalgia of applause, waiting for the moment when Hans, sweaty and tired, left
the baton amid the acclamations of the crowd Wagner, to wipe his
face with an almost filial caress.

And half of Europe ran, spreading the light of the teacher, it obscured voluntarily like one
of those patrician, dressed as slaves, the apostles were anxious the progress of the good news.

The German teacher was left to worship; received all caresses of enthusiasm and love the distraction
of an artist who, concerned with the sounds, just to hate the words.

He taught his language to Leonora that someday could sing in Bayreuth, making his most fervent
desire, and instilled the thinking that guided the teacher to draw its main protagonists.

So when Leonora was presented on stage a winter with the winged Valkyrie helmet, Virgin wand waving
bellicose prodújose burst of enthusiasm that had to follow throughout
his career.

Hans shook himself in his director's chair, admiring the ease with which her lover had been able
to assimilate the spirit of the master.

- If the you hear! - Said with conviction - I have the certainty that
it would appear satisfied.

And so the two ran the world. In spring contemplating it from afar with the baton in hand,
raising winged victory the glory of the master of mass instrumentation hiding in the Bavarian
hill of Bayreuth, in the pit called the Abyss Mystic. In Winter was he who was excited to hear about
times hojotoho! Valkyrie fiercest who fears the austere father Wotan; seeing other awakening
among the flames, before the game Siegfried, the hero who fears nothing in the world, and shudders
at the first glance of love.

But artists' passions are equal to the flowers for its intense perfume and short duration. The German
teacher was rude childish, erratic, fickle, ready to clap before a new toy. Leonora, referring
to his past, he acknowledged could have reached the old submissive to him, obeying his every
whim and nervousness. But one day Keller abandoned as she had left to others, it was dragged through
the faded charm of a contralto consumptive and languid, he had the sickly perfume, the morbid
delicacy of a flower range. Leonora, mad with love and despair, chased him, knocked at her door
like a servant, felt a bitter pleasure seeing first despised and unknown, until reaction character
in it revived its old arrogance.

No more love. Farewell to the artists! Interesting people, but no longer wanted them. Were preferable
to ordinary men had met at other times, and the more idiots, better. Would never fall in love.

And tired, lost illusions, relaunched in the world. The legend that bothered gallant madness of
their times, the fury with which the men ran toward her, offering her riches in exchange for a
passive affair. Madness returned to take her in his gear. The men talked about killing her if
she resisted, as if their duty was given to the first that his body felt like it would result
in a negative and betrayal. The gloomy Macchia committed suicide in Naples at her insensitive to
her sad sonnets in Vienna fought and died for it one of his admirers, an eccentric Englishman
followed her everywhere, projecting onto the head a fatal tree shade and vowing to kill every
one that she preferred to ... He had already enough! I was tired of that life, felt sick before
the male voracity that protruded to step in everywhere. He seemed shaken by the storm that triggered
his passion name.

I wanted to dive, go, rest given a dream without limits, and thought as bed a soft and mysterious,
in that far away from his childhood, where his only relative, simple and devoted aunt wrote
that twice a year, recommending to put his soul in order with God, which was helping her with
her devotions.

He also believed, without knowing why, that this return to the homeland soften the memory painful
for the ingratitude that had cost the life of his father. Look after the poor old happy with their
presence that life dull and gray had crept without the slightest ripple. His voice and his
body needed rest. And suddenly one night, after being Isolde last time before the age of Florence,
gave the order to leave a Beppa, the faithful and silent partner
of his life wandering.

A homeland and hopefully find something to keep her there, leaving no return to a hectic world!

It
was the princess of the stories to become a pastor, and there lying dormant, in the shade of orange,
shaken by the memory sometimes, wanting to enjoy forever this quiet, fiercely repelling Rafael, trying
to wake her up as Siegfried awakens Brunilda through the fire.

No: Friends no more. I did not want love, she knew what it meant. In addition, late.

And Rafael stirring sleepless in bed, going over the story in the dark cut into pieces, with
gaps to fill in your divination. He felt dwarfed, annihilated by men who had preceded him in
worship this woman.

A king, great artists, beautiful and aristocratic paladins as Count Russian tycoons that they
possessed great wealth. And he, poor provincial deputy dark, submitted as a little boy to
the despotism of his mother and almost no money for his expenses,
was intended to happen!

He laughed with bitter irony of his own courage; understood Leonora's
mocking accent, energy that had repelled all uncouth dares to try
to have a great lady force.

But despite the contempt he himself was inspired, faltábanle forces
to retire.

He was caught in the wake of seduction, love the turmoil that followed the artist everywhere, imprisoning
the men, throwing to the ground broken and unwilling, as servants of beauty.

III

- Earlier today we are: good morning, Rafaelito ... I long to see the market. Girl was I have the
event's arrival on Wednesday. Many people!

And Leonora, forgotten and the crowds of big cities, they were astonished
at the confusion of people waving in the Plaza del Prado, where every
Wednesday is verified the large district market.

The farmers came with the cartridge belt bulging money to buy what needed for the whole week there
in the desert, surrounded by orange trees were in a position to another the orchard, elegant and graceful
peasant operetta which combed as girls, cambric skirts clear that when collected, bared and
fine stockings fitting shoes. The tanned face and hands was all that hard betrayed the hardiness
of those girls who was living a rich culture in abundance.

Along the walls of the hens clucked, tied in bunches; amontonábanse
pyramids eggs, vegetables and fruits and stores the clothiers portable
extendíanse the color bands, pieces of muslin and calico and black
cloth suit all coastal eternal.

Outside the Prado, the peasants looked to the market Alborchí pigs or horses proved at Hostal Gran.
Was buying everything for the week, the day aimed to business, the massive influx of people in
the orchards, to borrow money from lenders or return it by far; repopulate the hen house, buy
the pig, whose growing obesity forward was to follow the family or time to acquire the horse, cause
for concern and desperate savings.

The crowd, smelling of sweat and earth, agitábase in the market, in the light of the first
sunlight. They embraced the orchard to meet, and with the basket on her hip metíanse in the chocolate
to hold the meeting, the farmers formed a circle, and from time to time went to drink a glass of
sweet brandy to take power.

And through the middle of this invasion paperback, passed the people of the town, the burguesillos
of customs with a layer arranged old and a huge basket, which got
the supplies, then to bargain tenaciously; the ladies who saw the
Wednesday market that cheered the extraordinary monotony of their
existence, the unemployed who spent long hours standing by the post
a vendor friend, browsing what each had in his basket, muttering about
greed of some and the generosity of others.

Rafael gazed in wonder at her friend. How beautiful it was! ... Anyone could guess in it the
artist's immense popularity!

It looked like a gardener, fresh calico dress, as heralding the spring,
the neck a pañolito red and blonde hair uncovered, combed artistic
neglect, knotted quickly on the neck.

Not a jewel or a flower. His stature and elegance was all that made her stand out from the
crowd. And under the curious and hungry look of the whole market, Rafael smiled in front of her,
admiring her fresh, rosy, with the vivacity of the morning ablution, indefinable perfume spreading
a strong and healthy beef that reveled in the young.

He spoke laughingly, as if to blinded by the brightness of your teeth all gaper that watched from afar.
For all the market lay a curious rumor, buzz of admiration and outrage, seeing face to face,
the face of the whole city, talking with smile of friendship to the deputy and singer.

Friends of Rafael, the main characters of the municipality that were
in the market could not conceal their satisfaction.

Until the last sheriff felt a certain pride. "He spoke with Quef. He smiled. " It was an honor
for the match to a woman so beautiful treat kindly Don Rafael, but,
well considered, deserved this and more.

And those men, who presence of their wives were careful to keep silent when they spoke with
anger of foreign admirábanla the instinctive fervor that beauty inspires envy his deputy.

The old orchard wrapped the two in a loving gaze.

"They were well matched, which could make a handsome couple! "

And the ladies pretended not to see them passing by his side, they walked away with a twisted
mouth gesture of pride, and to meet a friend, said with ironic tone: "Have you seen ...? There's
that throwing the bait in front of everyone, dona Bernarda's son. " This was scandalous decent ladies
would have to stay home.

Leonora, impervious to the curiosity, oblivious to the hundreds of eyes fixed on her, still
talking about their business. Beppa had stayed with the aunt, and her with his gardener and another
woman, who stood a few steps with big baskets, had come to buy an
endless things, the enumeration of her laugh.

Now it was dependable; yes sir.

He knew the price I ate, it could indicate, penny by penny, the cost of his life, believed to
have receded that takes time to Milan, when with the score under his arm, entered the house
of spice for macaroni, butter and coffee. How fun that! ... And not wanting to prolong expectation
longer shocked people who played their smiles and voluble talk in the worst way, gave his hand
to Rafael bye.

It was getting late, if he remained there chatting, find nothing, the best in the market would
have been others.

- A required: hasta la vista, Rafaelito.

And the young man saw his way through the crowd, followed by two farmers,
as stopped at the stalls, welcomed by a friendly smile which parishioner
sellers ever bargained not, how was interrupted to pet shop boys dirty
and howler that poor women had the arm, pulling from his best fruit
basket to brag.

The admiration of the whole market went through the posts. So SEÑORET! shouted the vendors. Vinga,
Leonor! said other calling her name to show greater privacy. And she smiled, spoke familiarly with
all, put his hand at every moment to Russia leather bag hanging from his right hand and, as
a cloud of flies, Men swarmed in around it, crippled, blind and maimed,
advised of the generosity of the lady who given the small change in
handfuls.

Rafael followed her with his eyes, welcoming smile forced the remarkable accomplishments of congratulating
him on his good fortune.

The mayor - a man who, they said the enemies trembled in the presence of his wife - said with sparkling
eyes, a woman like that was he able to do all sorts of crazy stuff. And every voice joined the chorus
of praise envious considered as indisputable fact that Rafael was the lover of the artist, while
this smiled bitterly recalling his explanations with Leonora.

I no longer see. Was on the other end of the market, hidden by the waves of heads. From time then
distinguished by a golden moment his helmet over other women.

I wanted to go there, but could not. Beside him Matias, the successful exporter of orange Remedies
that rich man whose daughter spent the day with his mother and obedient
disciple.

That man, heavy and slow speech thought, enmarañábale in his talk
on trade orange. He gave advice, a whole plan had discoursed and offered
to present Congress, measures of protection for exporters of orange.
The wealth of the city; all swimming in money, he guaranteed it with
his hand over his heart.

And Rafael, looking lost in the bottom of
the Prado, watching the rapid appearance of golden hair to be convinced
that Leonora was still there, sounded like a dream that man who they
claimed the malicious, was destined to become his second parent. All
the slow drip of words, only a few came to his brain, digging into
it with the persistence of the obsession "Glasgow ... Liverpool ...
needed new markets ... cheapen rail fares ... English agents are thieves
... "

"Well, that'll be damned," Rafael replied mentally. And on
and show their assent what is not heard, to nod, looking anxiously
down there, fearing Leonora was gone.

A second forward pass was caught by Holt, but he was brought down for a scant three-yard gain.
Once more Rollins attempted the centre of the blue line, but this time he was stopped short.
On third down Rollins punted and Claflin caught on her forty and ran the ball back to the middle
of the field. Claflin then found Crewe for four yards and completed her distance on a straight
plunge between Gilbert and Thayer. It was the Blue's turn to cheer then and she performed valiantly.
Claflin tried Edwards's end, but made nothing of it, poked Cox past Crewe for a couple of yards,
made three around Holt and then punted. St. Clair misjudged the distance and the ball went
over his head and there was a scamper to the goal line. Carmine finally fell on the ball for
a touchback and the excitement in the stands subsided. Brimfield smashed Otis at the Blue's
centre and reached the twenty-five-yard line. St. Clair made three on a skin-tackle play at
the right and Rollins got the distance on a plunge after a fake-kick. Brimfield again made
first down on the forty-two yards and her supporters howled gleefully. A moment later they
had new cause for rejoicing when Rollins pegged the ball across the field to Edwards and the
Maroon-and-Grey's captain scampered and dodged along the side of the field for thirteen yards
before he was tackled. Time was called for a Claflin back and Brimfield drew off for a consultation,
the result of which was seen in the next play.

Carmine called Gilbert to the right side of centre, the backs spread themselves in wide formation
ten yards behind the line and Steve Edwards, as the first signal began, ran back, straightened
out as the ball was snapped, raced along behind his forwards and swept around his right end.
Claflin's right end and half-back plunged outside of Thayer, were met by St. Clair and Rollins,
and Carmine, having taken the ball on a long pass from Thursby, raced past them and then swung
quickly in and found an almost clear field ahead.

Two white lines passed under his twinkling feet and then, near the twenty, he was challenged
by a Claflin back. Carmine eluded him, crossed a third line, found himself confronted by the
Blue's quarter, attempted to slip by on the outside, was tackled and borne struggling across
the side line and deposited forcibly on the ground.

When the ball was stepped in by the referee it was set down some four inches inside the fifteen-yard
line. In the stands and along the side of the field Brimfield was cheering triumphantly, imploringly,
and waving her banners. The linesmen scampered in obedience to the referee's waving arm.

"First down!" shouted the official. "All right, Brimfield? Ready, Claflin?" The whistle piped
again.

Rollins was stopped squarely on a try at right guard and Otis made a scant three past the left
tackle. Under the shadow of her goal-posts, Claflin was digging her cleats in the turf and
fighting hard. Rollins went back. "Get through, Claflin! Block this kick!" cried the Blue's
quarter-back. "Get through! Get through!" Back went the ball from Thursby, a trifle high but
straight enough, Rollins poised it, swung his leg, and then, tucking the pigskin under his
arm, sprang away to the left. Shouts of alarm, cries of warning, the hurried rush of feet and
rasping of canvas! Bodies crashed together and went down. Rollins, at the ten yards now, side-stepped
and got past a blue-legged defender, turned in and went banging straight into the mêlée. Arms
clutched at him. He was stopped momentarily. Then he wrested free, plunged on for another yard
and went to earth.

"Second down!" cried the referee when he had bored through the pile of squirming bodies and
found the ball. He glanced along the five-yard line, set the pigskin to earth again, and "About
two feet to go!" he added. Brimfield was shouting incessantly now, standing and waving. I do not just
threw on deaf ears, but the case for me was to meditated a lot and, therefore, between claim
and respond to it and think I was passing a good season.

The first letter which dealt with the issue was the largest of the eight or ten in the series.
He feared it out of the blue slip, and I prepared the way for their
purposes, "taking things from way back, as if we try first, but by
far, for the first time.

"

"I would greatly hindered the pen between the fingers", in that they
revealed the harshness of the lines, inequality of points and signals
over a fresh smear or spread licked with the edge of the hand, "but
with patience and goodwill overcame the impossible."

"Your father's parents - I wrote - not other children managed to your father and me. I was the
primogeniture, and as such, this root from the point and time I was born. Your father, as more needed,
and fell to the world, and rolling a lot for him, took good flow and a woman there was no gold to
be paid. In this trace I painted it when he came to realize their projects marriage, and to take
possession, in pure jest, of poverty that was his by inheritance
free from your grandparents.

Was a few days coming, and I never see him again or else on earth. May he rest in eternal peace.

"I
also walk the day I got married, and had a good woman, and children that the Lord was removing
as I gave them. With the last of them was his mother. Blessed and
praised be His divine will, even that with which we are overwhelmed
and beleaguered humanity! "A yard and a half!" proclaimed
the referee.

"You've got to do it, Brimfield!" shouted Edwards intensely. "Don't let them get the jump on
you like that! Get into it, Crewe! Watch that man, Gilbert! Come on now! Put it over!"

"Signals!" shrieked Carmine. "Make it go this time! Over with it!"

Back went Rollins, hands outstretched. "Fake!" shouted Claflin. 

I had presented it in his solitary rostrum that it was all lies, conventions, phrases, that
the only one there spoke with the firmness of virtue was that old man, who looked with reverence
for having been the idols of his father.

Rafael was embarrassed. The steadfast refusal of Leonora, the merciless mocking hypocrisy made
him realize the enormity of his desire.

Avenged wallow in making abjection of mad, desperate love, capable of the greatest embarrassments.

Twilight
began. Leonora ordered the driver to return to the Plaza de Oriente. Lived one of the houses near
the Royal Theatre, which serve as housing for artists. Had hurry, had lunch with this young man
from the embassy and two music critics whose presentation had announced.

-
What about me, Leonora?

Do not we see more?

- You leave me in the door, and until we meet again!

- Stay a few days. At least you see, you have the consolation of talk, feeling the bitter pleasure
of your ridicule.

Stay! ... He had his days, going from one extreme to another world, arranging their lives the accuracy
of a clock. From there to sing two days in San Carlos de Lisboa three representations Wagner
no more, and after a jump to Stokolmo and then was not sure where,
to Odessa or Cairo.

It was the Wandering Jew, the Valkyrie galloping in the clouds of a storm Music, going through
the most different temperatures, jumping over more than countries,
arrogant and victorious, without suffering the slightest damage to
its health and beauty.

- Ah, if you wish! If I may follow you! As
a friend no more! As a servant, if necessary! Then Tim Otis shot forward, took
the delayed pass, jammed the ball against his stomach and went in past Thursby on the right.

Tim struck the line as if shot out of a gun. There was no hole there, but Tim made one. If
the secondary defence, overanxious, had not been fooled by that fake attack at their end Tim
would never have gained a foot. They could be Malaga, as assumed that ignorant. Confusing
to Seville with Malaga is a crass error as a philanderer Andalusian that women should know as
a hunter mistaking a quail with a dove. It was also clear that she was married, among other reasons
because, if both single, would not go alone. The marriage was the brunette. In this no doubt. Known
in older, and in other evidence that together all reached the most complete certainty. Who was
married the brunette? Both were outsiders, new to Madrid, since no one knew. It was not probably
had come to Madrid to have fun, because then the husband, farmer, rancher, merchant or something,
some people in Andalusia and Seville itself, should have accompanied and he also amuse and curiosearía.
The husband should be a busy man. What occupation could have a husband in Madrid, but of a government
employment? The Count therefore decided that the husband was an employee. Calculated, finally, by
air had something mysterious the unknown, of some concern to note that he had believed in them,
that night they were in the Gardens had been without previous permission of the husband, improvising
that trip at a time when he was missing from home, save loyalty to tell the prudent course for to approve
and legitimize the fact. If all this assumption was accurate, the husband sometimes worked at
night, home away from home. At night he works in many offices; but none are as common as the
long evenings in the Interior or Finance. The husband was, therefore, employed in one of these
two ministries.

Discovered the enigma to this point, needed to know the name of the
husband and where he lived; but this was very easy.

Before the appropriate investigations, as the name of a person and number and street of a house
can not be guessed by mere speech, even if you have an understanding excruciating, Count, fond of exercising
his thought also below.

Fashionable society is easier, more open in Madrid than in any other
European capital, even for women.

How Claflin shouted and triumphed then! The Blue came surging down the field to line up against
the astounded enemy, determination written large on every countenance. A plunge at Gilbert
gained a yard and was followed by a three-yard gain off Holt. And it would not seem out of the way, because that was your
answer, well rooted out its niceties and courtesies. Since then was pears for pound the letters
between us. You run the mint and Mecca, and I grabbed firm these rocky hills, as montuna fence.
And so we've been pulling so beautiful: you not remember twice a year the saint of my name and
I no hurry for it something more, because while I had health, I joy, and in light of how well she
was accompanied by live among these people and these cliffs and even their beasts, and I seemed
to see and feel them strength, flesh from my bones and blood of my own veins.
 For Brimfield, McPhee relieved Carmine, Lee
went in for Holt and Sturges for Crewe. Claflin put in a new right end, a fresh full-back and
returned her original right guard to the line-up. But you were young and had a long time and
much land in front, I old and very few fantasies in your head, and no leftover heat in the mass
of blood made many years after one of their own, and yesterday morning, as they say, a bit of anything,
a drink of milk more than the usual, the air a door, gives flight of a mosquito, my mayor
in bed. It took me out of it, and went to enter the tomb. The oak tree was swaying as if it
needed the land that held, or she will take off from the roots, or could not with the weight
of its own branches. And give me the uphill Anseo just look at them, and gladly hand the vent
yesterday implement or the ax with which I amused and the arable land in the dense forest, Today
I asked the paluco the cripple, as the strut supporting the jastial cracked, and Worse than
this, that the mind is singing along with the bones that and hastily and can no longer with
the skin. In short, man, that in no time, and when least expected, say the slump that was to give
later or earlier. Is that the land law which call is yours, and I do not cease to call a few days
ago. Do not be afraid to say that, properly fear, the disturbance which is not silent day or
night, but it's true that at this time would accompanied me more than I see on the solitude
in which I am.


The head linesman announced five minutes to play. On the stands the spectators were beginning
to depart. Claflin was back on her thirty-five yards, banging desperately at the maroon-and-grey
line, desperately and a bit hopelessly. At the same Sevilla must
have lived in greater isolation. "

Count inferred here that their unknown, although Seville, had lived
away from the world or timid, or too much poverty, or extravagance
of her husband.

Then going from thought to action, leaving the speculative method and appealing to study and
investigation of the facts, the Count, who had good relations everywhere, was the chief of
staff of the Ministry of Finance and asked for the names of the most Recent employees in all those
units were. The list was long, because long time that there had been
changes, renewal and transfer of employees, but not missing an officer
on staff who had some news biographies of all new. Blue players and maroon dashed after it. Hall almost
had it, but was toppled aside by a Claflin man. Carmine dived for it and missed. Then Tim Otis
and a Claflin forward dropped upon it simultaneously and struggled for its possession. Tim
always maintained that he got more of it than his opponent, and got it first, but the referee
awarded it to Claflin and dismayedly Brimfield gathered together and lined up only twenty yards
from her goal! Rafael begged quietly; crawl boldly
begged him misfortune. Should leave alone, then later and would, seek opportunity to be seen,
perhaps it could be in Madrid, when the courts open was there alone, she would sing at the Royal
free if necessary.

But Rafael writhed angrily against his resistance. Do not see it! Take months and months in mortal wait!
Just one night without feeling your body confused with yours, would
despair.

Would eventually be given to the mortal sadness Macchia, it would shoot as the Italian poet.

And
he said it with conviction, looking at the floor with wild eyes,
as if seen already on the floor, lifeless, bloodied, with the gun
in right hand clenched.

- Oh, no! Horror!

Rafael! Rafael mine! - Leonora groaned, hugging his neck, hanging him, shaken by the bloody sight.

The
lover continued to protest. He was free.

If married, if I left after escaping a woman to cry betrayal, children being called in vain,
yet understand that resistance; the reluctance of a good heart who will not leave your love behind
it the curse of a dispersed family. But who left in their flight? On his mother only to be consoled
knowing that soon he was healthy and was happy. His mother, who objected to the blind maternal
love that does not want to find love rivalries and jealousies hinders child sometimes happiness.
The evil which would result in following her she would not be irreparable. Flee together,
walk about his love for the world.

And Leonora, head down, he repeated feebly

- No, I am determined.

Parting morning alone. I have no strength to face the hatred of a mother.

Rafael was angry.

- Then I do not love me. You're tired of me. Want to lift the wings drives you madness of the
past, want to fly again for your world crazy.

The artist fixed her large eyes dim with tears. His gaze was tenderness and pity.

- Tired of you! ... When ever I felt so sad as tonight! ... Think I crave my old life, and away
I feel the same as entry into a place of torment ... Alas, my master, my soul ... You do not
understand where I have never before in my love.

- What, then?

And in his irresistible urge to tell everything, not to forgive the story of any of the dangers which
should come after the separation, Rafael spoke of his mother, what would happen to be alone with
her mired in the monotony of the city. Did she think it was all love
in the indignant opposition from his mother?

I wanted, it was her only child, but his calculations went much ambition,
that desire for the aggrandizement of the house, which had occupied
their whole existence. I had intended, without consulting his wishes,
to serve as a hostage in the alliance pondered with a large fortune.
I wanted to marry him: and if she was leaving, if it looked lonely,
abandoned, sadness and the time that everything may bite her will,
to make him fall inert, giving as a victim that stunning does not
cover the importance of sacrifice.

She listened trembling, with eyes
wide with terror. Anxious
moments then! One by one the fallen warriors were pulled to their feet while into the pile
dove the referee. The timekeeper hovered nearby, watch in hand. Then the referee's voice:

"Claflin's ball! First down! A foot to go!"

"Line-up! Line-up!" shrieked the Claflin quarter. "We've got time yet! Then again recommended, since even before
I had done the chief of staff, secrecy regarding its investigation.

By the officer also knew the Count Don Braulio did no more than a month that was Madrid, which enjoyed
a salary of 3,000 pesetas, less discount, who had a reputation of excellent employee, that would
justify to work which the Minister entrusted to him, that he was a man of forty-five to fifty years
of age but looked older, because it was rather bald and very sickly, and that only took three
years of marriage had no children; his wife, Dona Beatriz, and his wife's sister, named Ines,
were a place the province of Cordoba, where he had been Manager of Revenue, that shortly after
wedding had been moved to Seville to rise, which in Seville he and his family had lived far
removed from the treatment of people, who now lived on Olive Street in third floor of a house
whose number is also given, and they were all so ferrets, barely were treated in Madrid with
a living soul.

Count heard all, returned to his thoughts and calculations. Had taken the first step; but it
was necessary to take the second.

I already knew who was dealing with, but that's nothing served if he failed to communicate
wisely with Don Braulio and his family.

The Count was far from being a reckless infinity.

While She did not draw any danger, if it did not hurt having to risk
the skin, always feared a coup in vague, do some anything that might
put you in awkward and ridiculous situation.

This was more afraid, not that of a naked sword, but fifteen machine guns were firing at him.

Given
this its natural condition, the difficulties were not small.

How to be present in a house where one of its kind, and perhaps no other no any class, came
to visit? What excuse to claim snapped right out in the house of
those poor people?

The presentation is the most right to know and treat people, but the Count did not feel the shameless enough
to be presented there.

Would you write a love note to enter into relationships?

Letters of this kind, use, usefulness, disadvantages and advantages,
the Count, who, according to we have said, was very circumspect and
tidy, had made its laws and made their considerations, to which always
tried to adjust their behavior.

Write a love for women seemed an
excellent resource. Almost all give more solemnity and the significance
of what he writes that what they speak. Many things that offend or
blush when they hear the weigh and ponder, and delight them with loving
pleasure when read. When he did he got a lot of cold water in his mouth and that made him quite peevish.
He tried to raise his right hand, changed his mind about it and raised his left instead. With
that he pushed weakly at the offending sponge.

"Take it away," he muttered. "I'm--drowned."

"Can you walk or will we carry you?" asked Danny in businesslike tones.

"Walk," said Don indignantly. "Let me up." Recollection returned. "Did they make it?" he gasped.

"They did not. Lie still a bit."

"Yes, but----" He followed that movement, he saw that were in the garden
advantage and also the noise he was separated from his friends, as if by chance the lost, and took
the street of trees where he saw the two young men had rushed looking the garden gate.

It seemed ridiculous that a man so run like the running then desalted after two poor girls.
Earl was not considered aristocratic and arrogant, but rookie or ensign estudiantillo fresh out
of school. But despite its judicious reflections, the Count was in pursuit of these women,
and even formed the purpose of talking about saliesen the garden so that, in the case of a
sofión, which he deserved for his sick vulgar bad parenting, not subjects might see him it
might have.

Leaving the garden he saw the Count to his valet, he would call the
driver to come over victory.

- Ramon! - Said the Count -.

Go and wait at the door of the Swift-Club.

A little victory snapped.

The count continued to rise to the two women.

Two or three times approached them and tried to speak. He looked at them, he faced them, almost
stopped, but was so ugly, so plebeian as rude, abuse and that they were alone two women and chase
and want to talk to them, which was contained and did not speak.

In
the midst of this hesitation, the two women were passing an empty
car. Seized it quickly gave the driver the address, paid for in advance
and double pulverized, and breaks out the way, up the Calle de Alcala
and then entered by the Turk. (four "Three Musketeers")

Page 89, "castenets" changed to "castanets" Wore comprised
of three anchors on brown cloth slippers, and below the warped with fungus that covered the
swollen head, long locks of hair falling and entrerrubio rough, almost sanota color and pleasant
face, whose only fault was the most prominent lower jaw the other, as our princes of the house
of Austria. He carried in his right hand paint stick, and under the left arm, a blue umbrella,
big and patches. (demanded Don angrily)

