The little cemetery in the rear of the church was consecrated in 1785. A quiet walk through
this "garden of the dead" is full of interest, awakening memories as association of the past.
There are twenty-four tombs and many graves upon whose ancient, moss-covered headstones we
trace familiar names and some unusual epitaphs. The tombs of Dr. Thomas Gray and the Greenough
family, side by side, are particularly noticeable, as, unlike the others, they have a large
bull's-eye of ground glass inserted in the doors, evidently to admit light into "the chamber
of death." Very few interments gave been made there since the consecration of Forest Hills
Cemetery in 1848. Upon the small triangular lot at the junction of Centre and South streets
the first schoolhouse in our village was erected in 1676. The land was the gift of John Ruggles,
and John Eliot and Hugh Thomas were the principal benefactors of the school. In the early days
this spot was the municipal center of our town; and here, in 1871, was dedicated our beautiful
Soldiers' Monument, in affectionate, grateful remembrance of our heroic dead, who gave their
lives in the service of their country during the Rebellion (1861-65). Eliot Street was opened
to Pond Street in 1800, and at the corner still stands an old milestone, inscribed: "Five miles
to Boston Town House, 1735. P. Dudley."

The Eliot School was incorporated in 1804, and later, January 17,1832, the brick building was
dedicated which now stands on Eliot Street in the center of ample grounds.

Within a few months we have witnesses with feelings of regretful interest the decay and removal
of the old house known to us as the Nathaniel Curtis homestead. This estate once belonged to
Dr. Lemuel Hayward, a physician of high repute, and one of the first to practice inoculation
for small-pox in this vicinity. He practiced medicine here for several years. About the year
1780, John Hancock, after he resigned the presidency of Congress, purchased this place of Dr.
Hayward for his summer residence. He paid for it seven or eight shares in Long Wharf property,
amounting them in all to about $400, but at the time of Dr. Hayward's decease, in 1821, valued
at $100,000, -- a striking evidence of growth and financial prosperity in less then fifty years.
We learn that the house was, like many of that period, one story and a half in height, covering
much space on the ground, and shaded by fine linden-trees. We love to tarry here and do grateful
honor to this first governor of our new State, who, during our country's struggles for freedom,
was one of the most fearless opposers of British tyranny, one of the most active patriots,
and the first signer of the declaration of Independence. He was of fine, dignified presence,
six feet in height, with a very handsome face and gracious manners. In public speaking he was
eloquent, graceful and accomplished, and plainly formed by nature to act a brilliant part in
the affairs of his time. According to the customs of that period with men of fortune, his apparel
was very elaborate and costly, of velvet and satin, embroidered with gold and silver lace.
"His equipage was splendid, and public occasions he rode with six beautiful bay horses and
attended by servants in livery." Mach of his large fortune was spent for benevolent and useful
purposes, Harvard College coming in for a share. In the year 1800, Thomas Hancock, nephew of
the Governor, built the house which has recently been destroyed, and resided here until 1819,
when the estate was purchased by Mr. Nathaniel Curtis, fifth in descent from the first William
Curtis. He was a merchant of Boston, highly esteemed, and filled various positions of trust
on our town. He resided here during the remainder if his life, a period of thirty-eight years,
and died in 1857. He married for his second wife the widow Leeds, who at the time was living
in the old Stephen Brewer house, still standing at the end of Thomas Street, and which was
afterwards for several years the home of Mr. William D. Ticknor, of the publishing house of
Ticknor & Fields. Mrs. Curtis lived in the old house for many years after he husband's death,
until we missed the gentle, sweet face, and the kindly, cordial greetings -- and the home was
desolate.

More that two hundred and fifty years have passed since the first John May, master of a vessel,
came from Mayfield, in Sussex, England, and became a resident of Jamaica Plain, and the ancestor
of the many who bear the name of May in this country. In 1650 the old house on May's Lane was
built by Mr. Bridge, and since 1771 it has been owned and occupied by the direct descendents
of John May. It has always been a typical New England fruit farm, noted for the fine quality
of its cherries, peaches, pears, apples, and berries of various kinds. In the early days it
covered many acres, including the beautiful hill now occupied by the fine estates of the Bowditch
family and others, and the lowlands, extending north and east to Pond and Eliot streets. During
the siege of Boston, the house was given up to soldiers for barracks. Captain Lemuel May was
one of the minute-men who responded to the reveille at the break of day on the 19th of April,
1775, and fought valiantly for his country at Lexington and concord. This house, of the seventeenth-century
pattern, has maintained its original features until very recently, carefully preserved from
any sign of neglect or decay. Possibly a hasty view of the interior of tee old homestead will
interest us. Entering by the front porch, we find the small, square entry open through narrow
doorways into low studded, irregular shaped rooms, with overhead and corner beams and wainscoted
sides, triangular cupboards and dressers and convenient little shelves. There are high wooden
mantels adorned with specimens of antique china and brasses over the large bricked fireplaces.
In one room an iron crane with kettles suspended on chains, swings over the fire-dogs piled
with logs, and on both sides hang quaint domestic utensils. The narrow stairway, from he little
entry, had a halfway landing to economize space, and leads to cozy apartments above, all interesting
for their antique furniture and family relics.

[interior fireplace of May house]

And now a glance at the old square barn east of the house and more pretentious in size than
the dwelling, with wide doors opening at both ends, and lofts stacked with fragrant hay. This
is the comfortable home of faithful horses and gentle kine, who looked from their stalls and
stanchions on the youths and maidens who often made the walls resound with their merriment
and they were borne quickly past in the old swing hanging from the creaking rafters.

The well-curb, with its long sweep and old oaken bucket, brings memories, to some of us, of
refreshing droughts of pure water, and of delicious cream and butter rolls, which the moss-covered
stone shelves far down the well held securely from possible taint. Back of the house ran the
babbling brook and emptied into "the ditch," which was often broad and deep enough to merit
a more comely name, and was the favorite resort of the young in winter for skating and sledding.
But this ancestral home, with all its charms, had passed from view, like man others, leaving
but cherished memories.

Captain Charles Brewer, whose fine estate on Pond Street was originally a part of the May form,
was a lineal descendant of Captain John May, on his mother's side. He was born in Boston in
1804, and received his education there, but early developed baa fondness for the sea, and for
several years was a successful ship-master in the Pacific and East India trade. In 1836 he
established a shipping business in Honolulu, and in 1846 returned with his family to this country,
and became a resident of Jamaica Plain.  Soon after he erected the commodious mansion in the
midst of highly cultivated grounds, which was his home during the remainder of his life.

Mr. Edward Bridge was one of the earliest settlers of the town, and it is believed that he
built the house, which has recently been taken down by the Park Commission, near the corner
of Centre and May Streets. The date 1710 was found cut into one of the old timbers, which is
still preserved.

Mr. Abijah Seaverns, grandfather of our townsman, resided here with his family for many years.
The original Seaverns homestead, owned by Mr. Joel Seaverns, the ancestor of the family, was
upon a farm of some fifty-five acres, now included in Forest Hills cemetery. In this old house,
during the later years of Mrs. Abijah Seaverns' life, a small band of the Baptist faith met
frequently for religious meetings, and in 1840 took steps to form a church. Soon after they
began to worship in the Village Hall, and in 1842 the public services of their recognition
were held in the Unitarian Church, in which Rev. Mr. Gray then ministered. On October 4, 1843,
the new house of worship was dedicated, and on the same day Dr. John O. Choules, an Englishman,
was installed as pastor. The little church stood on elevated ground on the east side of Centre
Street near Star Lane. On September 26, 1856, the church was destroyed by fire, with its furniture,
library, and records. For two years the congregation used the Unitarian house of worship one
half of the Sabbath, and the Mather (now Central) Church for evening meetings, accepting the
very king invitations which came from both societies while the fire was still burning. In August
1859, the present house of worship on the corner of Centre and Myrtle streets was dedicated.

