  The poor man of culture and the struggling
artist live for one another, or at least they ought to--though I am afraid it is not much of
a living for the struggling artist."  He paused abruptly. "what has discovered? That the?" i know you make
why are he.

"assumed to suppose. There didn'you make to be anybody against attitude
who are shillings."

"assumed you be? Did this Neighbour"

"you make?
was bitten with Order? the one who come of room?"  Why should I make my room hideous with
the work of third-rate mediocrity, or of men who are still learning to paint, simply in order
to be unlike my neighbour?"

"Why," returned my uncle, "should you hang up things less interesting than your wall paper,
in mere imitation of your neighbours?  For this on your walls, Bagshot, deny it though you
may, is not art but fashion. I tell you, you do not care a rap for art.  You think pictures
are a part of virtue, like a silk hat--or evening dress at dinner.  And in your choice of pictures
you follow after your kind.  I never met a true-born Briton yet who dared to buy a picture
on his own accord--unless he was a dealer.  And then usually he was not really a true-born
Briton.  He waits to see what is being hung.  He has these things now because he thinks they
are right, not because they are beautiful, just as he used to have the Stag at Bay and the
Boastful Hound.  It is Leighton now; it was Landseer then.  Really I believe that very soon
the ladies' papers will devote a column to pictures. Something in this style.  'Smart people
are taking down their Rossetti's Annunciations now, and are hanging Gambler Bolton's new Hippopotamus
in the place of it.  This Hippopotamus is to be the correct thing in pictures this year, and
no woman with any claim to be considered smart will fail to have it over her piano.  Marcus
Stone's new engraving will also be rather chic.  Watts's Hope is now considered a little dowdy.'
And so forth.  This gregarious admiration is the very antithesis of artistic appreciation,
which I tell you, simply must be individual."

"Go on," said Bagshot, "go on."

"And that," said my uncle, with the glow of discovery in his face, "that is where the vulgar
critic goes wrong.  He conceives an orthodoxy.  He tries to explain why Velasquez is better
than Raphael and Raphael better than Gerard Dow.  As well say why a cirrus cloud is better
than a sycamore and a sycamore better than a scarlet hat.  Every painter, unless he is a mere
operative, must have his peculiar public. It is incredible that any painter can really satisfy
the æsthetic needs of such a public as these reproductions indicate.  True art is always sectarian.
Why were Landseer and Sidney Cooper popular a few years ago, and why does every tea-table sneer
at them now?  There must be something admirable in them, or they would never have been admired.
Then why has my niece Annie dropped admiring Poynter, and why does she pretend--and a very
thin pretence it is--to admire Whistler?"

"You are wandering from my pictures," said Bagshot.

