This extraordinary circumstance gave me a great deal of thought. Savages, surely, had landed
on our island, and carried off our canoe. We could no longer doubt it when we discovered on
the sands the print of naked feet! It is easy to believe how uneasy and agitated I was. I hastened
to take the road to Tent House, from which we were now more than three leagues distant. I forbade
my sons to mention this event, or our suspicions, to their mother, as I knew it would rob her
of all peace of mind. I tried to console myself. It was possible that chance had conducted
them to the Bay, that they had seen our pretty canoe, and that, satisfied with their prize,
and seeing no inhabitants, they might not return. Perhaps, on the contrary, these islanders
might prove kind and humane, and become our friends. There was no trace of their proceedings
further than the shore. We called at The Farm, on purpose to examine. All appeared in order;
and certainly, if they had reached here, there was much to tempt them: our cotton mattresses,
our osier seats, and some household utensils that my wife had left here. Our geese and fowls
did not appear to have been alarmed, but were pecking about as usual for worms and insects.
I began to hope that we might get off with the loss of our canoe,--a loss which might be repaired.
We were a sufficient number, being well armed, not to be afraid of a few savages, even if they
penetrated further into the island, and showed hostile intentions. I exhorted my sons to do
nothing to irritate them; on the contrary, to meet them with kindness and attention, and to
commit no violence against them unless called on to defend their lives. I also recommended
them to select from the wrecked chest, some articles likely to please the savages, and to carry
them always about with them. "And I beseech you, once more," added I, "not to alarm your mother."
They promised me; and we continued our road unmolested to Falcon's Nest. Jack preceded us,
delighted, he said, to see our castle again, which he hoped the savages had not carried away.
Suddenly, we saw him return, running, with terror painted on his countenance.

"They are there!" said he; "they have taken possession of it; our dwelling is full of them.
Oh! how frightful they are! What a blessing mamma is not there; she would have died of fright
to see them enter."

I confess I was much agitated; but, not wishing to expose my children to danger before I had
done all in my power to prevent it, I ordered them to remain behind till I called them. I broke
a branch from a tree hastily, which I held in one hand, and in the other some long nails, which
I found by chance in the bottom of my pocket; and I advanced thus to my Tree-Castle. I expected
to have found the door of my staircase torn open and broken, and our new guests ascending and
descending; but I saw at once it was closed as I had left it; being of bark, it was not easily
distinguished. How had these savages reached the dwelling, forty feet from the ground? I had
placed planks before the great opening; they were no longer there; the greater part of them
had been hurled down to the ground, and I heard such a noise in our house, that I could not
doubt Jack's report. I advanced timidly, holding up in the air the branch and my offerings,
when I discovered, all at once, that I was offering them to a troop of monkeys, lodged in the
fortress, which they were amusing themselves by destroying. We had numbers of them in the island;
some large and mischievous, against whom we had some difficulty in defending ourselves when
crossing the woods, where they principally dwelt. The frequent report of fire-arms round our
dwelling had kept them aloof till now, when, emboldened by our absence, and enticed by the
figs on our tree, they had come in crowds. These vexatious animals had got through the roof,
and, once in, had thrown down the planks that covered the opening; they made the most frightful
grimaces, throwing down everything they could seize.

Although this devastation caused me much vexation, I could not help laughing at their antics,
and at the humble and submissive manner in which I had advanced to pay homage to them. I called
my sons, who laughed heartily, and rallied "the prince of the monkeys" without mercy, for not
knowing his own subjects. Fritz wished much to discharge his gun amongst them, but I forbade
him. I was too anxious to reach Tent House, to be able to turn my thoughts on these depredators
just now.

We continued our journey--but I pause here; my heart is oppressed. My feelings when I reached
home require another chapter to describe them, and I must summon courage for the task.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XLVII

We soon arrived at Family Bridge, where I had some hopes of meeting Francis, and perhaps his
mother, who was beginning to walk very well; but I was disappointed--they were not there. Yet
I was not uneasy, for they were neither certain of the hour of our return, nor of the way we
might take. I expected, however, to find them in the colonnade--they were not there. I hastily
entered the house; I called aloud, "Elizabeth! Francis! where are you?" No one answered. A
mortal terror seized me--and for a moment I could not move.

"They will be in the grotto," said Ernest.

"Or in the garden," said Fritz.

"Perhaps on the shore," cried Jack; "my mother likes to watch the waves, and Francis may be
gathering shells."

These were possibilities. My sons flew in all directions in search of their mother and brother.
I found it impossible to move, and was obliged to sit down. I trembled, and my heart beat till
I could scarcely breathe. I did not venture to dwell on the extent of my fears, or, rather,
I had no distinct notion of them. I tried to recover myself. I murmured, "Yes--at the grotto,
or the garden--they will return directly." Still, I could not compose myself. I was overwhelmed
with a sad presentiment of the misfortune which impended over me. It was but too soon realized.
My sons returned in fear and consternation. They had no occasion to tell me the result of their
search; I saw it at once, and, sinking down motionless, I cried, "Alas! they are not there!"

Jack returned the last, and in the most frightful state; he had been at the sea-shore, and,
throwing himself into my arms, he sobbed out--

"The savages have been here, and carried away my mother and Francis; perhaps they have devoured
them; I have seen the marks of their horrible feet on the sands, and the print of dear Francis's
boots."

This account at once recalled me to strength and action.

"Come, my children, let us fly to save them. God will pity our sorrow, and assist us. He will
restore them. Come, come!"

They were ready in a moment. But a distracting thought seized me. Had they carried off the
pinnace? if so, every hope was gone. Jack, in his distress, had never thought of remarking
this; but, the instant I named it, Fritz and he ran to ascertain the important circumstance,
Ernest, in the mean time, supporting me, and endeavouring to calm me.

"Perhaps," said he, "they are still in the island. Perhaps they may have fled to hide themselves
in some wood, or amongst the reeds. Even if the pinnace be left, it would be prudent to search
the island from end to end before we leave it. Trust Fritz and me, we will do this; and, even
if we find them in the hands of the enemy, we will recover them. Whilst we are off on this
expedition, you can be preparing for our voyage, and we will search the world from one end
to the other, every country and every sea, but we will find them. And we shall succeed. Let
us put our whole trust in God. He is our Father, he will not try us beyond our strength."

I embraced my child, and a flood of tears relieved my overcharged heart. My eyes and hands
were raised to Heaven; my silent prayers winged their flight to the Almighty, to him who tries
us and consoles us. A ray of hope seemed to visit my mind, when I heard my boys cry out, as
they approached--

"The pinnace is here! they have not carried that away!"

I fervently thanked God--it was a kind of miracle; for this pretty vessel was more tempting
than the canoe. Perhaps, as it was hidden in a little creek between the rocks, it had escaped
their observation; perhaps they might not know how to manage it; or they might not be numerous
enough. No matter, it was there, and might be the means of our recovering the beloved objects
those barbarians had torn from us. How gracious is God, to give us hope to sustain us in our
afflictions! Without hope, we could not live; it restores and revives us, and, even if never
realized below, accompanies us to the end of our life, and beyond the grave!

I imparted to my eldest son the idea of his brother, that they might be concealed in some part
of the island; but I dared not rely on this sweet hope. Finally, as we ought not to run the
risk of abandoning them, if they were still here, and perhaps in the power of the savages,
I consented that my two eldest sons should go to ascertain the fact. Besides, however impatient
I was, I felt that a voyage such as we were undertaking into unknown seas might be of long
duration, and it was necessary to make some preparations--I must think on food, water, arms,
and many other things. There are situations in life which seize the heart and soul, rendering
us insensible to the wants of the body--this we now experienced. We had just come from a painful
journey, on foot, of twenty-four hours, during which we had had little rest, and no sleep.
Since morning we had eaten nothing but some morsels of the bread-fruit; it was natural that
we should be overcome with fatigue and hunger. But we none of us had even thought of our own
state--we were supported, if I may use the expression, by our despair. At the moment that my
sons were going to set out, the remembrance of their need of refreshment suddenly occurred
to me, and I besought them to rest a little, and take something; but they were too much agitated
to consent. I gave Fritz a bottle of Canary, and some slices of roast mutton I met with, which
he put in his pocket. They had each a loaded musket, and they set out, taking the road along
the rocks, where the most hidden retreats and most impenetrable woods lay; they promised me
to fire off their pieces frequently to let their mother know they were there, if she was hidden
among the rocks--they took also one of the dogs. Flora we could not find, which made us conclude
she had followed her mistress, to whom she was much attached.

As soon as my eldest sons had left us, I made Jack conduct me to the shore where he had seen
the footmarks, that I might examine them, to judge of their number and direction. I found many
very distinct, but so mingled, I could come to no positive conclusion. Some were near the sea,
with the foot pointing to the shore; and amongst these Jack thought he could distinguish the
boot-mark of Francis. My wife wore very light boots also, which I had made for her; they rendered
stockings unnecessary, and strengthened her ankles. I could not find the trace of these; but
I soon discovered that my poor Elizabeth had been here, from a piece torn from an apron she
wore, made of her own cotton, and dyed red. I had now not the least doubt that she was in the
canoe with her son. It was a sort of consolation to think they were together; but how many
mortal fears accompanied this consolation! Oh! was I ever to see again these objects of my
tenderest affection!

Certain now that they were not in the island, I was impatient for the return of my sons, and
I made every preparation for our departure. The first thing I thought of was the wrecked chest,
which would furnish me with means to conciliate the savages, and to ransom my loved ones. I
added to it everything likely to tempt them; utensils, stuffs, trinkets; I even took with me
gold and silver coin, which was thrown on one side as useless, but might be of service to us
on this occasion. I wished my riches were three times as much as they were, that I might give
all in exchange for the life and liberty of my wife and son. I then turned my thoughts on those
remaining to me: I took, in bags and gourds, all that we had left of cassava-bread, manioc-roots,
and potatoes; a barrel of salt-fish, two bottles of rum, and several jars of fresh water. Jack
wept as he filled them at his fountain, which he perhaps might never see again, any more than
his dear Valiant, whom I set at liberty, as well as the cow, ass, buffalo, and the beautiful
onagra. These docile animals were accustomed to us and our attentions, and they remained in
their places, surprised that they were neither harnessed nor mounted. We opened the poultry-yard
and pigeon-cote. The flamingo would not leave us, it went and came with us from the house to
the pinnace. We took also oil, candles, fuel, and a large iron pot to cook our provisions in.
For our defence, I took two more guns, and a small barrel of powder, all we had left. I added
besides some changes of linen, not forgetting some for my dear wife, which I hoped might be
needed. The time fled rapidly while we were thus employed; night came on, and my sons returned
not. My grief was inconceivable; the island was so large and woody, that they might have lost
themselves, or the savages might have returned and encountered them. After twenty hours of
frightful terror, I heard the report of a gun--alas! only one report! it was the signal agreed
on if they returned alone; two if they brought their mother; three if Francis also accompanied
them; but I expected they would return alone, and I was still grateful. I ran to meet them;
they were overcome with fatigue and vexation.

They begged to set out immediately, not to lose one precious moment; they were now sure the
island did not contain those they lamented, and they hoped I would not return without discovering
them, for what would the island be to us without our loved ones? Fritz, at that moment, saw
his dear Lightfoot capering round him, and could not help sighing as he caressed him, and took
leave of him.

"May I find thee here," said he, "where I leave thee in such sorrow; and I will bring back
thy young master," added he, turning to the bull, who was also approaching him.

He then begged me again to set out, as the moon was just rising in all her majesty.

"The queen of night," said Ernest; "will guide us to the queen of our island, who is perhaps
now looking up to her, and calling on us to help her."

"Most assuredly," said I, "she is thinking on us; but it is on God she is calling for help.
Let us join her in prayer, my dear children, for herself and our dear Francis."

They fell on their knees with me, and I uttered the most fervent and earnest prayer that ever
human heart poured forth; and I rose with confidence that our prayers were heard. I proceeded
with new courage to the creek that contained our pinnace, where Jack arranged all we had brought;
we rowed out of the creek, and when we were in the bay, we held a council to consider on which
side we were to commence our search. I thought of returning to the great bay, from whence our
canoe had been taken; my sons, on the contrary, thought that these islanders, content with
their acquisition, had been returning homewards, coasting along the island, when an unhappy
chance had led their mother and brother to the shore, where the savages had seen them, and
carried them off. At the most, they could but be a day before us; but that was long enough
to fill us with dreadful anticipations. I yielded to the opinion of my sons, which had a great
deal of reason on its side, besides the wind was favourable in that direction; and, abandoning
ourselves in full confidence to Almighty God, we spread our sails, and were soon in the open sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XLVIII.

A gentle wind swelled our sails, and the current carried us rapidly into the open sea. I then
seated myself at the helm, and employed the little knowledge I had gained during our voyage
from Europe in directing our bark, so that we might avoid the rocks and coral banks that surrounded
our island. My two oldest sons, overcome with fatigue, had no sooner seated themselves on a
bench, than they fell into a profound sleep, notwithstanding their sorrows. Jack held out the
best; his love of the sea kept him awake, and I surrendered the helm to him till I took a momentary
slumber, my head resting against the stern. A happy dream placed me in the midst of my family
in our dear island; but a shout from Ernest awoke me, he was calling on Jack to leave the helm,
as he was contriving to run the vessel among the breakers on the coast. I seized the helm,
and soon set all right, determined not to trust my giddy son again.

Jack, of all my sons, was the one who evinced most taste for the sea; but being so young when
we made our voyage, his knowledge of nautical affairs was very scanty. My elder sons had learnt
more. Ernest, who had a great thirst for knowledge of every kind, had questioned the pilot
on all he had seen him do. He had learned a great deal in theory, but of practical knowledge
he had none. The mechanical genius of Fritz had drawn conclusions from what he saw; this would
have induced me to place much trust in him in case of that danger which I prayed Heaven might
be averted. What a situation was mine for a father! Wandering through unknown and dangerous
seas with my three sons, my only hope, in search of a fourth, and of my beloved helpmate; utterly
ignorant which way we should direct our course, or where to find a trace of those we sought.
How often do we allay the happiness granted us below by vain wishes! I had at one time regretted
that we had no means of leaving our island; now we had left it, and our sole wish was to recover
those we had lost, to bring them back to it, and never to leave it more. I sometimes regretted
that I had led my sons into this danger. I might have ventured alone; but I reflected that
I could not have left them, for Fritz had said, "If the savages had carried off the pinnace,
I would have swum from isle to isle till I had found them." My boys all endeavoured to encourage
and console me. Fritz placed himself at the rudder, observing that the pinnace was new and
well built, and likely to resist a tempest. Ernest stood on the deck silently watching the
stars, only breaking his silence by telling me he should be able by them to supply the want
of the compass, and point out how we should direct our course. Jack climbed dexterously up
the mast to let me see his skill; we called him the cabin-boy, Fritz was the pilot, Ernest
the astronomer, and I was the captain and commander of the expedition. Daybreak showed us we
had passed far from our island, which now only appeared a dark speck. I, as well as Fritz and
Jack, was of opinion that it would be advisable to go round it, and try our fortune on the
opposite coast; but Ernest, who had not forgotten his telescope, was certain he saw land in
a direction he pointed out to us. We took the glass, and were soon convinced he was right.
As day advanced, we saw the land plainly, and did not hesitate to sail towards it. 

The north and shore continues high and rugged. After passing wharf Eboulements, a village, far above
marks on the quay, we round Cap aux Oies, in wide, unromantically, Goose wharf, and, rarely
in front, lies a very great headland, sloping down to malbaie river in les curves. Of this hair
of the headland we can there have to understand nestling in under the cliff what, in the valley, seems
only a side. It is the Cape of the. The still open valley beyond it, stretching across to catch river
à l'aigle, us the mouth of a bay. The Cap, have there twelve miles english, with a surging tide,
rising sometimes eighteen or twenty feet, has the strength and majesty
was perhaps of old Ocean himself.

As we land we see nothing striking. There is just the far Les with some cottages who clustered
at the foot of the cliff. But when we have ascended the stretch of winding road that leads over
the barrier of cliff we detect the real beauties of Malbaie. Before him lies the fir's semi-circle--
almost five miles in his extent; stretching far now is a water, with sides sloping up to rounded
bay-conveyed mountain. It is the break in the mountains and the views up the distance that give
the spot its downward beauty. When the tide is out the eaux itself is only a stretch of brown
sand, into many scattered boulders, and gleaming silver pools of water. Looking at upon it, one
sees a river winding to the waste of sand and rocks. It has made in the long upland three thousand
feet above this level and has risen an arduous peculiar way, now by narrow gorges, more far
across open spaces, where it crawls lazily in the summer sunlight:-- bold bay mortes, the french
Canadians fasten how such stretches.
 This done, quicker than I can write it, he approached us, raised
his brother so that he might relieve himself from the quantity of water he had swallowed; then
turning to me, restored me to my senses by administering to me some drops of rum, and by saying,
"Courage, father! you have saved Jack, and I will save Fritz. He has hold of the rope; he is
swimming strongly; he is coming; he is here!"

He left me to assist his brother, who was soon in the vessel, and in my arms. Jack, perfectly
recovered, joined him; and fervently did I thank God for granting me, in the midst of my trials,
such a moment of happiness. We could not help fancying this happy preservation was an augury
of our success in our anxious search, and that we should bring back the lost ones to our island.

"Oh, how terrified mamma would have been," said Jack, "to see me sink! I thought I was going,
like a stone, to the bottom of the sea; but I pushed out my arms and legs with all my strength,
and up I rose."

He as well as Fritz was quite wet. I had by chance brought some changes of clothes, which I
made them put on, after giving each a little rum. They were so much fatigued, and I was so
overcome by my agitation, that we were obliged to relinquish rowing, most unwillingly, as the
skies threatened a storm. We gradually began to distinguish clearly the island we wished to
approach; and the land-birds, which came to rest on our sails, gave us hopes that we should
reach it before night; but, suddenly, such a thick fog arose, that it hid every object from
us, even the sea itself, and we seemed to be sailing among the clouds. I thought it prudent
to drop our anchor, as, fortunately, we had a tolerably strong one; but there appeared so little
water, that I feared we were near the breakers, and I watched anxiously for the fog to dissipate,
and permit us to see the coast. It finally changed into a heavy rain, which we could with difficulty
protect ourselves from; there was, however, a half-deck to the pinnace, under which we crept,
and sheltered ourselves. Here, crowded close together, we talked over the late accident. Fritz
assured me he was never in any danger, and that he would plunge again into the sea that moment,
if he had the least hope that it would lead him to find his mother and Francis. We all said
the same; though Jack confessed that his friends, the waves, had not received his visit very
politely, but had even beat him very rudely.

"But I would bear twice as much," said he, "to see mamma and dear Francis again. Do you think,
papa, that the savages could ever hurt them? Mamma is so good, and Francis is so pretty! and
then, poor mamma is so lame yet; I hope they would pity her, and carry her."

Alas! I could not hope as my boy did; I feared that they would force her to walk. I tried to
conceal other horrible fears, that almost threw me into despair. I recalled all the cruelties
of the cannibal nations, and shuddered to think that my Elizabeth and my darling child were
perhaps in their ferocious hands. Prayer and confidence in God were the only means, not to
console, but to support me, and teach me to endure my heavy affliction with resignation. I
looked on my three sons, and endeavoured, for their sakes, to hope and submit. The darkness
rapidly increased, till it became total; we concluded it was night. The rain having ceased,
I went out to strike a light, as I wished to hang the lighted lantern to the mast, when Ernest,
who was on deck, called out loudly, "Father! brothers! come! the sea is on fire!" And, indeed,
as far as the eye could reach, the surface of the water appeared in flames; this light, of
the most brilliant, fiery red, reached even to the vessel, and we were surrounded by it. It
was a sight at once beautiful, and almost terrific. Jack seriously inquired, if there was not
a volcano at the bottom of the sea; and I astonished him much by telling him, that this light
was caused by a kind of marine animals, which in form resembled plants so much, that they were
formerly considered such; but naturalists and modern voyagers have entirely destroyed this
error, and furnished proofs that they are organized beings, having all the spontaneous movements
peculiar to animals. They feel when they are touched, seek for food, seize and devour it; they
are of various kinds and colours, and are known under the general name of zoophytes.

"And this which glitters in such beautiful colours on the sea, is called pyrosoma," said Ernest.
"See, here are some I have caught in my hat; you may see them move. How they change colour--orange,
green, blue, like the rainbow; and when you touch them, the flame appears still more brilliant;
now they are pale yellow."

They amused themselves some time with these bright and beautiful creatures, which appear to
have but a half-life. They occupied a large space on the water, and their astonishing radiance,
in the midst of the darkness of the atmosphere, had such a striking and magnificent effect,
that for a few moments we were diverted from our own sad thoughts; but an observation from
Jack soon recalled them.

"If Francis passed this way," said he, "how he would be amused with these funny creatures,
which look like fire, but do not burn; but I know he would be afraid to touch them; and how
much afraid mamma would be, as she likes no animals she does not know. Ah! how glad I shall
be to tell her all about our voyage, and my excursion into the sea, and how Fritz dragged me
by the hair, and what they call these fiery fishes; tell me again, Ernest; py--py--"

"Pyrosoma, Mr. Peron calls them," said Ernest. "The description of them is very interesting
in his voyage, which I have read to mamma; and as she would recollect it, she would not be afraid."

"I pray to God," replied I, "that she may have nothing more to fear than the pyrosoma, and
that we may soon see them again, with her and Francis."

We all said Amen; and, the day breaking, we decided to weigh the anchor, and endeavour to find
a passage through the reefs to reach the island, which we now distinctly saw, and which seemed
an uncultivated and rocky coast. I resumed my place at the helm, my sons took the oars, and
we advanced cautiously, sounding every minute. What would have become of us if our pinnace
had been injured! The sea was perfectly calm, and, after prayer to God, and a slight refreshment,
we proceeded forward, looking carefully round for any canoe of the savages--it might be, even
our own; but, no! we were not fortunate enough to discover any trace of our beloved friends,
nor any symptom of the isle being inhabited; however, as it was our only point of hope, we
did not wish to abandon it. By dint of searching, we found a small bay, which reminded us of
our own. It was formed by a river, broad and deep enough for our pinnace to enter. We rowed
in; and having placed our vessel in a creek, where it appeared to be secure, we began to consider
the means of exploring the whole island.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER XLIX.

I did not disembark on this unknown shore without great emotion: it might be inhabited by a
barbarous and cruel race, and I almost doubted the prudence of thus risking my three remaining
children in the hazardous and uncertain search after our dear lost ones. I think I could have
borne my bereavement with Christian resignation, if I had seen my wife and child die in my
arms; I should then have been certain they were happy in the bosom of their God; but to think
of them in the power of ferocious and idolatrous savages, who might subject them to cruel tortures
and death, chilled my very blood. I demanded of my sons, if they felt courage to pursue the
difficult and perilous enterprise we had commenced. They all declared they would rather die
than not find their mother and brother. Fritz even besought me, with Ernest and Jack, to return
to the island, in case the wanderers should come back, and be terrified to find it deserted;
and to leave him the arms, and the means of trafficking with the savages, without any uneasiness
about his prudence and discretion.

I assured him I did not distrust his courage and prudence, but I showed him the futility of
hoping that the savages would voluntarily carry back their victims, or that they could escape
alone. And should he meet with them here, and succeed, how could he carry his recovered treasures
to the island?

"No, my children," said I, "we will all search, in the confidence that God will bless our efforts."

"And perhaps sooner than we think," said Ernest. "Perhaps they are in this island."

Jack was running off immediately to search, but I called my little madcap back, till we arranged
our plans. I advised that two of us should remain to watch the coast, while the other two penetrated
into the interior. The first thing necessary to ascertain was if the island was inhabited,
which might easily be done, by climbing some tree that overlooked the country, and remarking
if there were any traces of the natives, any huts, or fires lighted, &c. Those who made any
discovery were immediately to inform the rest, that we might go in a body to recover our own.
If nothing announced that the island was inhabited, we were to leave it immediately, to search
elsewhere. All wished to be of the party of discovery. At length, Ernest agreed to remain with
me, and watch for any arrivals by sea. Before we parted, we all knelt to invoke the blessing
of God on our endeavours. Fritz and Jack, as the most active, were to visit the interior of
the island, and to return with information as soon as possible. To be prepared for any chance,
I gave them a game-bag filled with toys, trinkets, and pieces of money, to please the savages;
I also made them take some food. Fritz took his gun, after promising me he would not fire it,
except to defend his life, lest he should alarm the savages, and induce them to remove their
captives. Jack took his lasso, and they set out with our benedictions, accompanied by the brave
Turk, on whom I depended much to discover his mistress and his companion Flora, if she was
still with her friends.

As soon as they were out of sight, Ernest and I set to work to conceal as much as possible
our pinnace from discovery. We lowered the masts, and hid with great care under the deck the
precious chest with our treasure, provisions, and powder. We got our pinnace with great difficulty,
the water being low, behind a rock, which completely concealed it on the land-side, but it
was still visible from the sea. Ernest suggested that we should entirely cover it with branches
of trees, so that it might appear like a heap of bushes; and we began to cut them immediately
with two hatchets we found in the chest, and which we speedily fitted with handles. We found
also a large iron staple, which Ernest succeeded, with a hammer and pieces of wood, in fixing
in the rock to moor the pinnace to. We had some difficulty in finding branches within our reach;
there were many trees on the shore, but their trunks were bare. We found, at last, at some
distance, an extensive thicket, composed of a beautiful shrub, which Ernest recognized to be
a species of mimosa. The trunk of this plant is knotty and stunted, about three or four feet
high, and spreads its branches horizontally, clothed with beautiful foliage, and so thickly
interwoven, that the little quadrupeds who make their dwellings in these thickets are obliged
to open covered roads out of the entangled mass of vegetation.

At the first blow of the hatchet, a number of beautiful little creatures poured forth on all
sides. They resembled the kangaroos of our island, but were smaller, more elegant, and remarkable
for the beauty of their skin, which was striped like that of the zebra.

"It is the striped kangaroo," cried Ernest, "described in the voyages of Peron. How I long
to have one. The female should have a pouch to contain her young ones."

He lay down very still at the entrance of the thicket, and soon had the satisfaction of seizing
two, which leaped out almost into his arms. This animal is timid as the hare of our country.
They endeavoured to escape, but Ernest held them fast. One was a female, which had her young
one in her pouch, which my son took out very cautiously. It was an elegant little creature,
with a skin like its mother, only more brilliant--it was full of graceful antics. The poor
mother no longer wished to escape; all her desire seemed to be to recover her offspring, and
to replace it in its nest. At last, she succeeded in seizing and placing it carefully in security.
Then her desire to escape was so strong, that Ernest could scarcely hold her. He wished much
to keep and tame her, and asked my permission to empty one of the chests for a dwelling for
her, and to carry her off in the pinnace; but I refused him decidedly. I explained to him the
uncertainty of our return to the island, and the imprudence of adding to our cares, and, "certainly,"
added I, "you would not wish this poor mother to perish from famine and confinement, when your
own mother is herself a prisoner?"

His eyes filled with tears, and he declared he would not be such a savage as to keep a poor
mother in captivity. "Go, pretty creature," said he, releasing her, "and may my mother be as
fortunate as you." She soon profited by his permission, and skipped off with her treasure.

We continued to cut down the branches of the mimosa; but they were so entangled, and the foliage
so light, that we agreed to extend our search for some thicker branches.

As we left the shore, the country appeared more fertile: we found many unknown trees, which
bore no fruit; but some covered with delicious flowers. Ernest was in his element, he wanted
to collect and examine all, to endeavour to discover their names, either from analogy to other
plants, or from descriptions he had read. He thought he recognized the melaleuca, several kinds
of mimosa, and the Virginian pine, which has the largest and thickest branches. We loaded ourselves
with as much as we could carry, and, in two or three journeys, we had collected sufficient
to cover the vessel, and to make a shelter for ourselves, if we were obliged to pass the night
on shore. I had given orders to my sons that both were to return before night, at all events;
and if the least hope appeared, one was to run with all speed to tell us. All my fear was that
they might lose their way in this unknown country: they might meet with lakes, marshes, or
perplexing forests; every moment I was alarmed with the idea of some new danger, and never
did any day seem so long. Ernest endeavoured, by every means in his power, to comfort and encourage
me; but the buoyancy of spirit, peculiar to youth, prevented him dwelling long on one painful
thought. He amused his mind by turning to search for the marine productions with which the
rocks were covered: sea-weed, mosses of the most brilliant colours, zoophytes of various kinds,
occupied his attention. He brought them to me, regretting that he could not preserve them.

"Oh! if my dear mother could see them," said he, "or if Fritz could paint them, how they would
amuse Francis!"

This recalled our sorrows, and my uneasiness increased.

       *       *       *       *       *

CHAPTER L.

All was so still around us, and our pinnace was so completely hidden with its canopy of verdure,
that I could not help regretting that I had not accompanied my sons. It was now too late, but
my steps involuntarily turned to the road I had seen them take, Ernest remaining on the rocks
in search of natural curiosities; but I was suddenly recalled by a cry from Ernest--

"Father, a canoe! a canoe!"

"Alas! is it not ours?" I said, rushing to the shore, where, indeed, I saw beyond the reefs
a canoe, floating lightly, apparently filled with the islanders, easy to distinguish from their
dark complexion. This canoe did not resemble ours; it was longer, narrower, and seemed to be
composed of long strips of bark, quite rough, tied together at each end, which gave somewhat
of a graceful form to it, though it evidently belonged to the infancy of the art of navigation.
It is almost inconceivable how these frail barks resist the slightest storm; but these islanders
swim so well, that even if the canoe fills, they jump out, empty it, and take their places
again. When landed, one or two men take up the canoe and carry it to their habitation. This,
however, appeared to be provided with out-riggers, to preserve the equilibrium, and six savages,
with a sort of oars, made it fly like the wind. When it passed the part of the island where
we were, we hailed it as loudly as we could; the savages answered by frightful cries, but showed
no intention of approaching us or entering the bay; on the contrary, they went on with great
rapidity, continuing their cries. I followed them with my eyes as far as I could in speechless
emotion; for either my fancy deceived me, or I faintly distinguished a form of fairer complexion
than the dark-hued beings who surrounded him--features or dress I could not see; on the whole,
it was a vague impression, that I trembled alike to believe or to doubt. Ernest, more active
than I, had climbed a sand-bank, and, with his telescope, had commanded a better view of the
canoe. He watched it round a point of land, and then came down almost as much agitated as myself.
I ran to him and said--

"Ernest, was it your mother?"

"No, papa; I am certain it was not my mother," said he. "Neither was it Francis."

Here he was silent: a cold shuddering came over me.

"Why are you silent?" said I; "what do you think?"

