"So I thought. As for me, I have more important matters in view than interfering with the quarrels
of young hot-heads; but I think that there is yet time for Bussy d'Amboise to be warned, before
he starts to return from the Tuileries."

"M. de Noyard, I thank you," I said, with a bow of genuine respect, and in a moment I was hastening
along the Rue St. Honore.

I understood, of course, the real reasons why De Noyard himself had not gone back to warn Bussy.
Firstly, those in ambush would probably have noticed his turning back, suspected his purpose,
and taken means to defeat it. Secondly, he was a man from whom Bussy would have accepted neither
warning nor assistance; yet he was not pleased that any brave man should be taken by surprise,
and he gave me credit for a similar feeling. I could not but like him, despite my hidden suspicion
that there was something between Mlle. d'Arency and him.

I approached the house with the colonnade, feigning carelessness, as if I were returning to
my military quarters in the faubourg. The Porte St. Honore was still open, although the time
set for its closing was past.

Suddenly a mounted figure appeared in the gateway, which, notwithstanding the dusk, I knew,
by the way the rider sat his horse, to be that of Bussy. I was too late to warn him; I could
only give my aid.

Three figures rushed out from beneath the supported upper story of the house, and made for
Bussy with drawn swords. With a loud oath he reined back his horse on its haunches, and drew
his own weapon, with which he swept aside the two points presented at him from the left. One
of the three assailants had planted himself in front of the horse, to catch its bridle, but
saw himself now threatened by Bussy's sword, which moved with the swiftness of lightning. This
man thereupon fell back, but stood ready to obstruct the forward movement of the horse, while
one of the other two ran around to Bussy's right, so that the rider might be attacked, simultaneously
on both sides.

This much I had time to see before drawing my sword and running up to attack the man on the
horseman's left, whom I suddenly recognized as De Quelus. At the same instant I had a vague
impression of a fourth swordsman rushing out from the colonnade, and, before I could attain
my object, I felt a heavy blow at the base of my skull, which seemed almost to separate my
head from my neck, and I fell forward, into darkness and oblivion.

I suppose that the man, running to intercept me, had found a thrust less practicable than a
blow with the hilt of a dagger.

When I again knew that I was alive, I turned over and sat up. Several men--bourgeois, vagabonds,
menials, and such--were standing around, looking down at me and talking of the affray. I looked
for Bussy and De Quelus, but did not see either. At a little distance away was another group,
and people walked from that group to mine, and vice versa.

"Where is M. Bussy?" I asked.

"Oho, this one is all right!" cried one, who might have been a clerk or a student; "he asks
questions. You wish to know about Bussy, eh? You ought to have seen him gallop from the field
without a scratch, while his enemies pulled themselves together and took to their heels."

"What is that, over there?" I inquired, rising to my feet, and discovering that I was not badly
hurt.

"A dead man who was as much alive as any of us before he ran to help M. Bussy. It is always
the outside man who gets the worst of it, merely for trying to be useful. There come the soldiers
of the watch, after the fight is over."

I walked over to the other group and knelt by the body on the ground. It was that of a gentleman
whom I had sometimes seen in Bussy's company. He was indeed dead. The blood was already thickening
about the hole that a sword had made in his doublet.

The next day the whole court was talking of the wrath of the Duke of Anjou at this assault
upon his first gentleman-in-waiting. I was ashamed of having profited by the influence of De
Quelus, who, I found, had not recognized me on the previous evening. Anjou's rage continued
deep. He showed it by absenting himself from the wedding of Saint-Luc, one of De Quelus's companions
in the King's favor and in the attack on Bussy. Catherine, knowing how the King's authority
was weakened by the squabbles between him and his brother, took the Duke out to Vincennes for
a walk in the park and a dinner at the chateau, that his temper might cool. She persuaded him
to show a conciliatory spirit and attend the marriage ball to be held that night in the great
hall of the Louvre. This was more than she could persuade Marguerite to do, who accompanied
mother and son to Vincennes, sharing the feelings of the Duke for three reasons,--her love
for him, her hatred for her brother, the King, and her friendship for Bussy d'Amboise. It would
have been well had the Duke been, like his sister, proof against his mother's persuasion. For,
when he arrived at the ball, he was received by the King's gentlemen with derisive looks, and
one of them, smiling insolently in the Duke's piggish, pockmarked face, said, "Doubtless you
have come so late because the night is most favorable to your appearance."

Suppose yourself in the Duke's place, and imagine his resentment. He turned white and left
the ball. Catherine must have had to use her utmost powers to keep peace in the royal family
the next day.

On the second morning after the ball, I heard, from De Rilly, that the King had put his brother
under arrest, and kept him guarded in the Duke's own apartment, lest he should leave Paris
and lead the rebellion which the King had to fear, not only on its own account, but because
of the further disrepute into which it would bring him with his people. The King, doubtless,
soon saw, or was made to see, that this conduct towards his brother--who had many supporters
in France and was then affianced to Queen Elizabeth of England--would earn only condemnation;
for, on the day after the arrest, he caused the court to assemble in Catherine's apartments,
and there De Quelus went ironically through the form of an apology to the Duke, and a reconciliation
with Bussy. The exaggerated embrace which Bussy gave De Quelus made everybody laugh, and showed
that this peace-making was not to be taken seriously. Soon after it, Bussy d'Amboise and several
of his followers left Paris.

The next thing I saw, which had bearing on the difference between the King and Monsieur his
brother, was the procession of penitents in which Monsieur accompanied the King through the
streets, after the hollow reconciliation. I could scarcely convince myself that the sanctimonious-looking
person, in coarse penitential robe, heading the procession through the mire and over the stones
of Paris, from shrine to shrine, was the dainty King whom I had beheld in sumptuous raiment
in the gallery of the Louvre. The Duke of Anjou, who wore ordinary attire, seemed to take to
this mummery like a bear, ready to growl at any moment. His demeanor was all that the King's
gentlemen could have needed as a subject for their quips and jokes.

Two evenings after this, I was drinking in the public room of an inn, near my lodgings in the
town, when a young gentleman named Malerain, who, though not a Scot, was yet one of the Scotch
bodyguard, sat down at my table to share a bottle with me.

"More amusement at the palace," he said to me. "To think that, any one of these nights, I may
be compelled to use force against the person of the King's brother, and that some day he may
be King! I wonder if he will then bear malice?"

"What is the new trouble at the Louvre?" I asked.

"It is only the old trouble. Monsieur has been muttering again, I suppose, and this, with the
fact that Bussy d'Amboise keeps so quiet outside of Paris, has led the King to fear that Monsieur
has planned to escape to the country. At least, it has been ordered that every member of the
Duke's household, who does not have to attend at his retiring, must leave the palace at night;
and Messieurs de l'Archant, De Losses, and the other captains, have received orders from the
King that, if Monsieur attempts to go out after dark, he must be stopped. Suppose it becomes
my duty to stop him? That will be pleasant, will it not? To make it worse, I am devoted to
a certain damsel who is devoted to Queen Marguerite, who is devoted to Monsieur, her brother.
And here I am inviting misfortune, too, by drinking wine on the first Friday in Lent. I ought
to have followed the example of the King, who has been doing penance all day in the chapel
of the Hotel de Bourbon."

"Let us hope that the King will be rewarded for his penance by the submission of Monsieur.
I, for one, hope that if Monsieur attempts to get away, he will run across some Scotchman of
the Guard who will not scruple to impede a prince of France. For if he should lead a Huguenot
army against the King, I, as one of the Guards, might be called on to oppose my fellow-Protestants."

"Oh, the Duke does not wish to join the Huguenots. All he desires is to go to the Netherlands,
where a throne awaits him if he will do a little fighting for it."

"I fear he would rather revenge himself on the King for what he has had to endure at court."

Presently Malerain left to go on duty at the Louvre, and soon I followed, to take up my station
in sight of the window where Mlle. d'Arency slept. The night, which had set in, was very dark,
and gusts of cold wind came up from the Seine. The place where, in my infatuation and affectation,
I kept my lover's watch, was quite deserted. The Louvre loomed up gigantic before me, the lights
gleaming feebly in a few of its many windows, serving less to relieve its sombre aspect than
to suggest unknown, and, perhaps, sinister doings within.

I laugh at myself now for having maintained those vigils by night beneath a court lady's window;
but you will presently see that, but for this boyish folly, my body would have been sleeping
in its grave these many years past, and I should have never come to my greatest happiness.

Suddenly my attention was attracted to another window than that on which I had fixed my gaze.
This other window appertained to the apartments of the King's sister, Queen Marguerite, and
what caused me to transfer my attention to it was the noise of its being opened. Then a head
was thrust out of it,--the small and graceful head of Marguerite herself. She looked down at
the moat beneath, and in either direction, and apparently saw no one, I being quite in shadow;
then she drew her head in.

Immediately a rope was let down into the moat, whose dry bed was about five times a tall man's
length below the window, which was on the second story. Out of the window came a man of rather
squat figure, who let himself boldly and easily down the rope. As soon as he had reached the
bed of the moat, he was followed out of the window and down the rope by a second man, who came
bunglingly, as if in great trepidation. This person, in his haste, let go the rope before he
was quite down, but landed on his feet. Then a third figure came out from the chamber and down
the cable, whereupon Marguerite's head again appeared in the opening, and I could see the heads
of two waiting-women behind her. But the Queen of Navarre manifestly had no intention of following
the three men. These now clambered up the side of the moat, and the one who had been first
down turned and waved her a silent adieu, which she returned with a graceful gesture of her
partly bare arm. The three men then rapidly plunged into one of the abutting streets and were
gone. All this time I stood inactive and unobserved.

Marguerite remained at the window to cast another look around. Suddenly, from out the darkness
at the base of the Louvre, as if risen from the very earth at the bottom of the moat, sprang
the figure of a man, who started toward the guard-house as if his life depended on his speed.
Marguerite drew her head in at once with a movement of great alarm. An instant later the rope
was drawn up and the window closed.

Two conjectures came into my head, one after the other, each in a flash. The one was that Marguerite
had availed herself of the fraternal quarrel that occupied the King's attention to plan an
escape to her husband, King Henri of Navarre, and that these three men had gone from a consultation
in her apartments to further the project. The other conjecture was that they were but some
of Monsieur's followers who had transgressed the new rule, requiring their departure from the
palace at nightfall, and had taken this means of leaving to avoid discovery. If the former
conjecture embodied the truth, my sympathies were with the plot; for it little pleased me that
the wife of our Huguenot leader should remain at the French court, a constant subject of scandalous
gossip. If the second guess was correct, I was glad of an opportunity to avert, even slight,
trouble from the wilful but charming head of Marguerite. In either case, I might serve a beautiful
woman, a queen, the wife of a Huguenot king. Certainly, if that man, paid spy or accidental
interloper, should reach the guard-house with information that three men had left the Louvre
by stealth, the three men might be overtaken and imprisoned, and great annoyance brought to
Marguerite. All this occupied my mind but an instant. Before the man had taken ten steps, I
was after him.

He heard me coming, looked around, saw my hand already upon my sword-hilt, and shouted, "The
guard! Help!" I saw that, to avoid a disclosure, I must silence him speedily; yet I dared not
kill him, for he might be somebody whose dead body found so near the palace would lead to endless
investigations, and in the end involve Marguerite, for suppose that the King had set him to
watch her? Therefore I called to him, "Stop and face me, or I will split you as we run!"

The man turned at once, as if already feeling my sword-point entering his back. Seeing that
I had not even drawn that weapon, he, himself, drew a dagger and raised it to strike. But I
was too quick and too long of arm for him. With my gloved fist I gave him a straight blow on
the side of the chin, and he dropped like a felled tree, at the very moat's edge, over which
I rolled him that he might recover in safety from the effects of the shock.

I knew that, when he should awake, he would not dare inform the guard, for the three men would
then be far away, and he would have no evidence to support his story. He would only put himself
in danger of having fabricated a false accusation against the King's sister.

I deemed it best to go from the vicinity of the Louvre at once, and I did so, with a last wistful
look at the windows behind which Mlle. d'Arency might or might not be reposing. I did not reappear
there until the next morning. The first person I then met was Malerain, who was coming from
the church of St. Germain l'Auxerrois, where he had been making up for previous neglect of
devotions.

"Well," I said, as I stood before him, and twisted my up-shooting mustaches, in unconscious
imitation of him, "I trust you found your quarter on duty last night an easy one. You must
thank me for saving you some labor."

"What do you mean?" he asked, with a look of sudden interest.

"Nothing, only that you might have been called on to give chase to some flying bird or other,
if I had not knocked down a rascal who was running to inform the guard."

"And you saw the bird fly?" he said, with increasing astonishment.

"From an opening in that great cage," I replied, looking towards the Louvre.

"Then I, for myself, am glad you knocked down the said rascal who would have made falcons of
us to bring the bird down. But be more cautious. Suppose what you did should reach the ears
of the King?"

"Why should the King concern himself?"

"Monsieur, is it possible that you don't know that the bird that flew from the Louvre last
night was the Duke of Anjou?"

It was now my turn to stare in astonishment.

"But," I said, "what use for him to leave the palace? There would be the gates of Paris to pass."

"There is more than one way to cross the fortifications of Paris, especially when one has such
an ally as Bussy d'Amboise, free, to arrange matters. Monsieur is at this moment certainly
on his way to some stronghold of his own. The King is mad with rage. Queen Marguerite is looking
innocent and astonished, but I'll wager she had a hand in this evasion. My friend, I am under
obligations to you!"

"How?"

"Why, since Queen Marguerite undoubtedly rejoices at her favorite brother's escape, and you
helped to make it good, she owes you gratitude. So do all her maids, who, naturally, share
in her feelings and benefit by her joy. Now, that gratitude extends of course to your friends,
of whom I am one. Therefore a good turn is due me from one of those maids in particular, and
for that I am obliged to you!"

I laughed at this fantastic extension of a debt of gratitude. "Doubtless," I said; "but since
neither Marguerite nor the maid knows anything about my share in the matter, I don't see how
you are going to collect the debt."

Malerain said nothing, but there was already that in his mind which, absurd as it might seem
at that time, was to save me when death should rise threateningly about me on every side. It
is a world in which much comes from little.

I was somewhat agitated at realizing that I had been the means of aiding an escape which might
result in opposing the troops of the King to those of certain Huguenot leaders; but this thought
was suddenly driven from my mind by a sight which caused me to leave Malerain abruptly, and
make for one of the streets that led from the Louvre to the midst of the town.

It was Mlle. d'Arency, mounted on a plumed horse, with tassellated trappings, which was led
by a young equerry who wore Catherine's colors, and followed by two mounted lackeys in similar
livery. Beside her rode the stout, elderly woman who usually attended her. Mlle. d'Arency wore
a mask of black velvet, but that could not conceal her identity from eyes to which every line
of her pretty head, every motion of her graceful person, had become familiar in actual contemplation
and in dreams. Her cloak and gown were, alike, of embroidered velvet of the color of red wine,
as was the velvet toque which sat perched on her dark brown hair.

I followed her at some distance, resolved to find an opportunity for a seemingly accidental
meeting. I supposed that she was going to visit some of the shops,--perhaps for the Queen-mother,
perhaps for herself.

She led me on and on, until I began to wonder what could be her destination. She avoided the
streets of fine shops, such as were patronized by the court, skirted market-places, and continued,
in a general easterly direction, until she had crossed both the Rue St. Denis and the Rue St.
Martin. At last, turning out of the Rue St. Antoine, she reached, by a little street lined
with bakeries, a quiet square before a small church, of which I never even learned the name.
She and the stout woman dismounted, and entered the church, leaving her male attendants outside
with the horse.

"Oho," I mused, stopping at the door of a pastry-cook's at the place where the little street
joined the square; "she chooses an obscure place for her devotions. Evidently she prefers to
mingle solitude with them, so I must not disturb her."

I decided, therefore, to wait at the pastry-cook's till she should come out, and then to encounter
her as if by chance. I would have, at least, a word in payment for having come so far afoot.

The pastry-cook must have been convinced of two things before Mlle. d'Arency came out of church:
first, that his fortune was made if this new customer, myself, should only continue to patronize
him; second, that there existed, at least, one human stomach able to withstand unlimited quantities
of his wares.

I stood back in the shop, devouring one doughy invention after another, with my ear alert for
the sound of her horse's hoofs on the stones. At last it occurred to me that she might have
left the square by some other street. I made for the door of the shop to look. As I did so,
a man rapidly passed the shop, going from the square towards the Rue St. Antoine. Was not that
figure known to me? I hastened to the street. My first glance was towards the church. There
stood her horse, and her three attendants were walking up and down in the sunlight. Then I
looked after the man; I thought that the figure looked like that of De Noyard.

He disappeared into the Rue St. Antoine, having given me no opportunity to see his face. I
would have followed, to make sure, roused into an intolerable jealousy at the idea of a secret
meeting between Mlle. d'Arency and him, but that I now heard the full melodious voice of the
lady herself. Looking around, I saw her on the steps of the church, with her middle-aged companion.
At that instant her eyes met mine.

I advanced, with an exaggerated bow, sweeping the stones of the street with the plumes of my hat.

"So it is true!" I said, making no effort to control my agitation, and restraining my voice
only that the lackeys might not hear; "you love that man!"

She looked at me steadily for a moment, and then said, "Do you mean M. de Noyard?"

"Ah, you admit it!"

"I admit nothing. But if I did love him, what right would you have to call me to account?"

"The right of a man who adores you, mademoiselle."

"That is no right at all. A man's right concerning a woman must be derived from her own actions.
But come inside the church, monsieur."

She made a gesture to her attendants, and reentered the church. I followed her. We stood together
before the font in the dim light.

"And now," she continued, facing me, "suppose I grant that I have so acted as to give you a
right to question me; what then? Is it my fault that you have followed me this morning? Is
it, then, any more my fault that I have been followed, also, by M. de Noyard?"

"But he must have been here before you."

"What does that prove? A score of people in the Louvre knew yesterday that I was coming to
this church to-day."

"But so deserted a church,--so out of the way! Who would come here from the Louvre but for
a tryst?"

She smiled, indulgently. "Can a thing have no cause except the obvious one?" she said. "I visit
this church once every month, because, obscure though it be, it is associated with certain
events in the history of my ancestors."

"But," I went on, though beginning to feel relieved, "if M. de Noyard was thrusting his presence
on you, why did he leave before you did?"

"Probably because he knew that I would not leave the church while he remained to press his
company upon me outside."

The low tones that we had to use, on account of our surroundings, gave our conversation an
air of confidence and secrecy that was delicious to me; and now her voice fell even lower,
when she added:

"I take the pains to explain these things to you, monsieur, because I do not wish you to think
that I have intrigues;" and she regarded me fixedly with her large gray eyes, which in the
dimness of the place were darker and more lustrous than usual.

Delightfully thrilled at this, I made to take her hand and stoop to kiss it, but stopped for
a last doubt.

"Mademoiselle," I said, "I think you only the most adorable woman in the world. But there is
one thing which has cost me many a sleepless hour, many a jealous surmise. If I could be reassured
as to the nature of your errand that night when I first saw you--"

"Oh!" she laughed, "I was coming from an astrologer's."

"But you were not coming from the direction of Ruggieri's house."

"There are many astrologers in Paris, besides Ruggieri. Although the Queen-mother relies implicitly
on him, one may sometimes get a more pleasing prediction from another; or, another may be clear
on a point on which he is vague."

"But the hour--"

"I took the time when I was not on duty, and he kept me late. It was for a friend that I visited
the astrologer,--a friend who was required in the palace all that evening. The astrologer had
to be consulted that night, as my friend wished to be guided in a course that she would have
to take the next morning. Now, Monsieur Curiosity, are you satisfied?"

This time I took her hand and pressed my lips upon it.

She was silent for a moment, noting the look of admiration on my face. Then, quickly, and in
little more than a whisper, she said:

"I have answered your questions, though not admitting your right to ask them. Would you know
how to gain that right?"

"Tell me!" I said, my heart beating rapidly with elation.

"Challenge M. de Noyard, and kill him!"

I stared in astonishment.

"Now you may know whether or not I love him," she added.

"But, mademoiselle,--why--"

"Ah, that is the one thing about which I must always refuse to be questioned! I ask you this
service. Will you grant it?"

"If he has given you offence," I said, "certainly I will seek him at once."

"Not a word of me is to be said between you! He must not know that I have spoken to you."

"But a man is not to be killed without reason."

"A pretext is easily invented."

"Certainly,--a pretext to hide the cause of a quarrel from the world. But the real cause ought
to be known to both antagonists."

"I shall not discuss what ought or ought not to be. I ask you, will you fight this man and
try to kill him? I request nothing unusual,--men are killed every day in duels. You are a good
swordsman; Bussy d'Amboise himself has said so. Come! will you do this?" She looked up at me
with a slight frown of repressed petulance.

"If you will assure me that he has affronted you, and permit me to let him know, privately,
the cause of my quarrel."

"Oh!" she exclaimed, with irritation, "must a lady give a hundred reasons when she requests
a service of a gentleman?"

"One sufficient reason, when it is a service like this."

"Well, I shall give none. I desire his death,--few gentlemen would ask a further reason."

"I had not thought you so cruel, mademoiselle, as to desire the death of any man."

"God forbid that I should desire the death of any other man! So, monsieur, I must understand
that you refuse to serve me in this?"

Her contemptuous look made me sigh. "Can you not see, mademoiselle, that to resolve deliberately
and secretly on a man's death, and with premeditation to create a pretext for a challenge,
is little better than assassination?"

"A fine excuse to avoid risking your life!"

Again I had to endure a look of profound scorn from her.

"Mademoiselle," I replied, patiently, "I would that you might see how ready I am to fight when
an affront is given me or some one needs a defender."

"Oh!" she said, with an ironical smile. "Then to show yourself a lion against De Noyard, you
require only that he shall affront you, or that some one shall need a defender against him!
Suppose that I should ever be in such need?"

"You know that in your defence I would fight an army."

Her smile now lost its irony, and she assumed a look of conciliation, which I was both surprised
and rejoiced to behold.

"Well, monsieur, it is pleasant to know that, if you will not take the offensive for me, you
will, at least, act readily on the defensive if the occasion comes."

Much relieved at the turn the conversation had taken, I now undertook to continue it to my
advantage. After some bantering, maintained with gaiety on her part, she said that she must
return to the Louvre. Then, as she would not have me accompany her in the streets, I begged
her to appoint another meeting. She evaded my petition at first, but, when I took her hand
and refused to release it until she should grant my request, she said, after a little submissive
shrug of her shoulders:

"Very well. Follow me, at a distance, from this church, and observe a house before which I
shall stop for a moment as if to adjust my cloak. It is a house that has been taken by a friend
of mine, one of the Queen-mother's ladies. I shall be there tomorrow afternoon."

"Alas! To-morrow I shall be on duty till six in the evening."

"Then come at seven. Knock three times on the street door." And with that she slipped her hand
from mine, and hastened lightly out of the church. I stood alone by the font, delighted and
bewildered. There was so much to mystify me that I did not even search my mind for explanations.
I thought my happiness about to be attained, and left it for the future to explain,--as it did!

CHAPTER IV.

HOW LA TOURNOIRE WAS ENLIGHTENED IN THE DARK

It was already dark when I started, on the evening appointed, for the house indicated by Mlle.
d'Arency. I went without attendance, as was my custom, relying on my sword, my alertness of
eye, and my nimbleness of foot. I had engaged a lackey, for whose honesty De Rilly had vouched,
but he was now absent on a journey to La Tournoire, whither I had sent him with a message to
my old steward. I have often wondered at the good fortune which preserved me from being waylaid,
by thieving rascals, on my peregrinations, by night, through Paris streets. About this very
time several gentlemen, who went well attended, were set upon and robbed almost within sight
of the quarters of the provost's watch; and some of these lost their lives as well as the goods
upon their persons. Yet I went fearlessly, and was never even threatened with attack.

On the way to the house, I reviewed, for the hundredth time, the conversation in the church.
There were different conjectures to be made. Mlle. d'Arency may have made that surprising request
merely to convince me that she did not love De Noyard, and intending, subsequently, to withdraw
it; or it may have sprung from a caprice, a desire to ascertain how far I was at her bidding,--women
have, thoughtlessly, set men such tasks from mere vanity, lacking the sympathy to feel how
precious to its owner is any human life other than their own;--or she may have had some substantial
reason to desire his death, something to gain by it, something to lose through his continuing
to live. Perhaps she had encouraged his love and had given him a promise from which his death
would be the means of release easiest to her,--for women will, sometimes, to secure the smallest
immunity for themselves, allow the greatest calamities to others. This arises less from an
active cruelty than from a lack of imagination, an inability to suppose themselves in the places
of others. I soon felt the uselessness of searching, in my own mind, for the motive of Mlle.
d'Arency's desire, or pretence of desire, for the death of De Noyard. What had passed between
them I could not guess. So, after the manner of youth, I gave up the question, satisfied with
knowing that I had before me an interview with a charming woman, and willing to wait for disclosures
until events should offer them.

The street in which the house was situated was entirely dark and deserted when I stepped into
it. The house was wider than its neighbors, and each of its upper stories had two chambers
overlooking the street. At the window of one of these chambers, on the second story, a light
shone. It was the only light visible in any of the houses, all of which frowned down menacingly;
and hence it was like a beacon, a promise of cheer and warmth in the midst of this black, cold
Paris.

I knocked three times on the street door, as she had directed me. Presently the wicket at the
side of the door was opened, and a light was held up to it, that my face might be seen by a
pair of eyes that peered out through the aperture. A moment later the bolts of the door were
drawn, and I was let in by the possessor of the eyes. This was the elderly woman who always
attended Mlle. d'Arency when the latter was abroad from the palace. She had invariably shown
complete indifference to me, not appearing aware of my existence, and this time she said only:

"This way, monsieur."

Protecting the flame of her lamp with her hand, she led me forward to a narrow staircase and
we ascended, stopping at a landing on which opened the second story chamber whose street window
had shone with light. She gave three knocks at the door of this chamber. At the last knock,
her lamp went out.

"Curse the wind!" she muttered.

So I stood with her, on the landing, in darkness, expecting the door in front of me to open,
immediately, and admit me to the lighted chamber.

Suddenly I heard a piercing scream from within the chamber. It was the voice of Mlle. d'Arency.

"Help! Help!" she cried. "My God, he will kill me!"

This was followed by one long series of screams, and I could hear her running about the chamber
as though she were fleeing from a pursuer.

I stood for an instant, startled.

"Good God!" cried the old woman at my elbow. "An assassin! Her enemies have planned it! Monsieur,
save her life!"

And the dame began pounding on the door, as if to break into the room to assist her mistress.

I needed no more than this example. Discovering that the door was locked on the inside, and
assuming that Mlle. d'Arency, in the flight which she maintained around the room, could not
get an opportunity to draw the bolt, I threw my weight forward, and sent the door flying open
on its hinges.

To my astonishment, the chamber was in complete darkness. Mlle. d'Arency had doubtless knocked
the light over in her movements around the room.

She was still screaming at the top of her voice, and running from one side to another. The
whiteness of the robe she wore made it possible to descry her in the absence of light.

I stood for a second, just inside the threshold, and drew my sword. At first, I could not see
by whom or what she was threatened; but I heard heavy footsteps, as of some one following her
in her wild course about the place. Then I made out, vaguely, the figure of a man.

"Fear not, mademoiselle!" I cried.

"Oh, monsieur!" she screamed. "Save me! Save my life!"

I thrust my sword at the figure of the man. An ejaculation of pain told me that it touched
flesh. A second later, I heard a sword slide from its scabbard, and felt the wind of a wild
thrust in my direction.

At this moment, Mlle d'Arency appeared between me and the street window of the room. There
was enough light from the sky to enable her head and shoulders to stand out darkly against
the space of the window. Her head was moving with the violent coming and going of her breath,
and her shoulders were drawn up in an attitude of the greatest fright. Is it any wonder that
I did not stop to ascertain who or what her assailant might be, or how he had come there? I
could make out only that the man in the darkness was a large and heavy one, and wielded a swift
blade. All other thoughts were lost in the immediate necessity of dealing with him. The extreme
terror that she showed gave me a sense of his being a formidable antagonist; the prompt response
that he had given to my own thrust showed that he was not to be quelled by a mere command.
In fine, there was nothing to do but fight him as best I could in the blackness; and I was
glad for so early an opportunity to show Mlle. d'Arency how ready I was to do battle for her
when I found her threatened with danger.

From the absence of any sound or other demonstration, except what was made by Mlle. d'Arency
and the man and myself, I knew that we three were the only ones in the room. The elderly woman
had not entered with me,--a fact whose strangeness, in view of the great desire she had first
evinced to reach her mistress's side, did not occur to me until afterward.

I made another thrust at the man, but, despite the darkness, he parried it with his sword;
and a quick backward step was all that saved me from his prompt reply. Angered at having to
give ground in the presence of the lady, I now attacked in turn, somewhat recklessly, but with
such good luck as to drive him back almost to the window. Mlle. d'Arency gave another terrified
scream when he came near her, and she ran past me towards the door of the apartment. Both my
antagonist and myself were now beginning to have a clearer impression of each other's outlines,
and there was sharp sword-work between us by the window. As we stood there, breathing rapidly
with our exertion and excitement, I heard the door close through which I had entered. I knew
from this that Mlle. d'Arency had left the chamber, and I was glad that she was out of danger.
It was natural that she should close the door, instinct impelling her to put any possible barrier
between her assailant and herself.

The man and myself were alone together to maintain the fight which, having once entered, and
being roused to the mood of contest, I had no thought of discontinuing now that Mlle. d'Arency
was out of immediate danger. It had reached a place at which it could be terminated only by
the disarming, the death, or the disabling of one of us.

I gradually acquired the power of knowing all my opponent's movements, despite the darkness.
I supposed that he was equipped with dagger as well as with sword, but as he made no move to
draw the shorter weapon, I did not have recourse to mine. Though I would not take an advantage
over him, even in the circumstances, yet I was not willing to be at a disadvantage. Therefore,
as he was not encumbered with cloak or mantle, I employed a breathing moment to tear off my
own cloak and throw it aside, not choosing to use it on my left arm as a shield unless he had
been similarly guarded.

So we lunged and parried in the darkness, making no sound but by our heavy breathing and an
occasional ejaculation and the tramping of our feet, the knocking of our bodies against unseen
pieces of furniture, and the clashing of our blades when they met. Each of us fenced cautiously
at times, and at times took chances recklessly.

Finally, in falling back, he came to a sudden stop against a table, and the collision disturbed
for an instant his control over his body. In that instant I felt a soft resistance encounter
my sword and yield to it. At once, with a feeling of revulsion, I drew my sword out of the
casing that his flesh had provided, and stood back. Something wet and warm sprinkled my face.
The man gave a low moan and staggered sideways over towards the window. Then he plunged forward
on his face. I stooped beside him and turned him over on his back, wetting my gloves with the
blood that gushed from his wound and soaked his doublet. At that moment a splash of moonlight
appeared on the floor, taking the shape of the window. His head and shoulders lay in this illumined
space. I sprang back in horror, crying out his name:

"De Noyard! My God, it is you!"

"Yes, monsieur," he gasped, "it is De Noyard. I have been trapped. I ought to have suspected."

"But I do not understand, monsieur. Surely you could not have attacked Mlle, d'Arency?"

"Attacked her! I came here by her appointment!"

"But her cry for help?"

"It took me by complete surprise. There was a knock on the door--"

"Yes,--mine. I, too, came by her appointment!"

"Mademoiselle instantly put out the light and began to scream. I thought that the knock frightened
her; then that she was mad. I followed to calm her. You entered; you know the rest."

"But what does it mean?"

"Can you not see?" he said, with growing faintness. "We have been tricked,--I, by her pretense
of love and by this appointment, to my death; you, by a similar appointment and her screams,
to make yourself my slayer. I ought to have known! she belongs to Catherine, to the Queen-mother.
Alas, monsieur! easily fooled is he who loves a woman!"

Then I remembered what De Rilly had told me,--that De Noyard's counsels to the Duke of Guise
were an obstacle to Catherine's design of conciliating that powerful leader, who aspired to
the throne on which her son was seated.

"No, no, monsieur!" I cried, unwilling to admit Mlle. d'Arency capable of such a trick, or
myself capable of being so duped. "It cannot be that; if they had desired your death, they
would have hired assassins to waylay you."

Yet I knew that he was right. The strange request that Mlle. d'Arency had made of me in the
church was now explained.

A kind of smile appeared, for a moment, on De Noyard's face, struggling with his expression
of weakness and pain.

"Who would go to the expense of hiring assassins," he said, "when honest gentlemen can be tricked
into doing the work for nothing? Moreover, when you hire assassins, you take the risk of their
selling your secret to the enemy. They are apt to leave traces, too, and the secret instigator
of a deed may defeat its object by being found out."

"Then I have to thank God that you are not dead. You will recover, monsieur."

"I fear not, my son. I do not know how much blood I lose at every word I speak. Parbleu! you
have the art of making a mighty hole with that toy of yours, monsieur!"

This man, so grave and severe in the usual affairs of life, could take on a tone of pleasantry
while enduring pain and facing death.

"Monsieur," I cried, in great distress, "you must not die. I will save you. I shall go for
a surgeon. Oh, my God, monsieur, tell me what to do to save your life!"

"You will find my lackeys, two of them, at the cabaret at the next corner. It is closed, but
knock hard and call for Jacques. Send him to me, and the other for a surgeon."

De Noyard was manifestly growing weaker, and he spoke with great difficulty. Not daring to
trust to any knowledge of my own as to immediate or temporary treatment of his wound, I made
the greatest haste to follow his directions. I ran out of the chamber, down the stairs, and
out to the street, finding the doors neither locked nor barred, and meeting no human being.
Mlle. d'Arency and her companion had silently disappeared.

I went, in my excitement, first to the wrong corner. Then, discovering my blunder, I retraced
my steps, and at last secured admittance to the place where De Noyard's valets tarried.

To the man who opened the door, I said, "Are you Jacques, the serving-man of Monsieur de Noyard?"

"I am nobody's serving man," was the reply, in a tone of indignation; but a second man who
had come to the door spoke up, "I am Jacques."

"Hallo, Monsieur de la Tournoire," came a voice from a group of men seated at a table. "Come
and join us, and show my friends how you fellows of the French Guards can drink!"

It was De Rilly, very merry with wine.

"I cannot, De Rilly," I replied, stepping into the place. "I have very important business elsewhere."
Then I turned to Jacques and said, quietly, "Go, at once, to your master, and send your comrade
for a surgeon to follow you there. Do you know the house in which he is?"

The servant made no answer, but turned pale. "Come!" he said to another servant, who had joined
him from an obscure corner of the place. The two immediately lighted torches and left, from
which fact I inferred that Jacques knew where to find his master.

"What is all this mystery?" cried De Rilly, jovially, rising and coming over to me, while the
man who had opened the door, and who was evidently the host, closed it and moved away. "Come,
warm yourself with a bottle! Why, my friend, you are as white as a ghost, and you look as if
you had been perspiring blood!"

"I must go, at once, De Rilly. It is a serious matter."

"Then hang me if I don't come, too!" he said, suddenly sobered, and he grasped his cloak and
sword. "That is, unless I should be de trop."

"Come. I thank you," I said; and we left the place together.

"Whose blood is it?" asked De Rilly, as we hurried along the narrow street, back to the house.

"That of M. de Noyard."

"What? A duel?"

"A kind of duel,--a strange mistake!

"The devil! Won't the Queen-mother give thanks! And won't the Duke of Guise be angry!"

"M. de Noyard is not dead yet. His wound may not be fatal."

I led the way into the house and up the steps to the apartment. It was now lighted up by the
torch which Jacques had brought. De Noyard was still lying in the position in which he had
been when I left him. The servant stood beside him, looking down at his face, and holding the
torch so as to light up the features.

"How do you feel now, monsieur?" I asked, hastening forward.

There was no answer. The servant raised his eyes to me, and said, in a tone of unnatural calmness,
"Do you not see that he is dead, M. de la Tournoire?"

Horror-stricken, I knelt beside the body. The heart no longer beat; the face was still,--the
eyes stared between unquivering lids, in the light of the torch.

"Oh, my God! I have killed him!" I murmured.

"Come away. You can do nothing here," said De Rilly, quietly. He caught me by the shoulder,
and led me out of the room.

"Let us leave this neighborhood as soon as possible," he said, as we descended the stairs.
"It is most unfortunate that the valet knows your name. He heard me speak it at the tavern,
and he will certainly recall also that I hailed you as one of the French Guards."

"Why is that unfortunate?" I asked, still deprived of thought by the horror of having killed
so honorable a gentleman, who had not harmed me.

"Because he can let the Duke of Guise know exactly on whom to seek vengeance for the death
of De Noyard."

"The Duke of Guise will seek vengeance?" I asked, mechanically, as we emerged from that fatal
house, and turned our backs upon it.

"Assuredly. He will demand your immediate punishment. You must bespeak the King's pardon as
soon as possible. That is necessary, to protect oneself, when one has killed one's antagonist
in a duel. The edicts still forbid duels, and one may be made to pay for a victory with one's
life, if the victim's friends demand the enforcement of the law,--as in this case the Duke
of Guise surely will demand."

"M. de Quelus can, doubtless, get me the King's pardon," I said, turning my mind from the past
to the future, from regret to apprehension. The necessity of considering my situation prevented
me from contemplating, at that time, the perfidy of Mlle. d'Arency, the blindness with which
I had let myself be deceived, or the tragic and humiliating termination of my great love affair.

"If M. de Quelus is with you, you are safe from the authorities. You will then have only to
guard against assassination at the hands of Guise's followers."

"I shall go to M. de Quelus early in the morning," I said.

"By all means. And you will not go near your lodgings until you have assured your safety against
arrest. You must reach the King before the Duke can see him; for the Duke will not fail to
hint that, in killing De Noyard, you were the instrument of the King or of the Queen-mother.
To disprove that, the King would have to promise the Duke to give you over to the authorities.
And now that I think of it, you must make yourself safe before the Queen-mother learns of this
affair, for she will advise the King to act in such a way that the Duke cannot accuse him of
protecting you. My friend, it suddenly occurs to me that you have got into a rather deep hole!"

"De Rilly," I asked, with great concern, "do you think that I was the instrument of Catherine
de Medici in this?"

"Certainly not!" was the emphatic answer. "The fight was about a woman, was it not?"

"A woman was the cause of it," I answered, with a heavy sigh. "But how do you know?"

"To tell the truth," he said, "many people have been amused to see you make soft eyes at a
certain lady, and to see De Noyard do likewise. Neither young men like you, nor older men like
him, can conceal these things."

Thus I saw that even De Rilly did not suspect the real truth, and this showed me how deep was
the design of which I had been the tool. Everybody would lay the quarrel to rivalry in love.
The presence of so manifest a cause would prevent people from hitting on the truth. Mlle. d'Arency
had trusted to my youth, agility, and supposed skill to give me the victory in that fight in
the dark; and then to circumstances to disclose who had done the deed. "It was De Noyard's
jealous rival," everybody would say. Having found a sufficient motive, no one would take the
trouble to seek the real source,--to trace the affair to the instigation of Catherine de Medici.
The alert mind of De Rilly, it is true, divining the equally keen mind of the Duke of Guise,
had predicted that Guise might pretend a belief in such instigation, and so force the King
to avenge De Noyard, in self-vindication. Mlle. d'Arency well knew that I would not incriminate
a woman, even a perfidious one, and counted also on my natural unwillingness to reveal myself
as the dupe that I had been. Moreover, it would not be possible for me to tell the truth in
such a way that it would appear probable. And what would I gain by telling the truth? The fact
would remain that I was the slayer of De Noyard, and, by accusing the instigators, I would
but compel them to demonstrate non-complicity; which they could do only by clamoring for my
punishment. And how could I prove that things were not exactly as they had appeared,--that
the woman's screams were not genuine: that she was not actually threatened by De Noyard? Clearly
as I saw the truth, clearly as De Noyard had seen it in his last moments, it could never be
established by evidence.

With bitter self-condemnation, and profound rancor against the woman whose tool I had been,
I realized what an excellent instrument she had found for her purpose of ridding her mistress
of an obstacle.

It was not certain that the King, himself, had been privy to his mother's design of causing
De Noyard's death. In such matters she often acted without consulting him. Therefore, when
De Quelus should present my case to him as merely that of a duel over a love affair, Henri
would perhaps give me his assurances of safety, at once, and would hold himself bound in honor
to stand by them. All depended on securing these before Catherine or the Duke of Guise should
have an opportunity to influence him to another course.

I felt, as I walked along with De Rilly, that, if I should obtain immunity from the punishment
prescribed by edict, I could rely on myself for protection against any private revenge that
the Duke of Guise might plan.

De Rilly took me to a lodging in the Rue de L'Autruche, not far from my own, which was in the
Rue St. Honore. Letting myself be commanded entirely by him, I went to bed, but not to sleep.
I was anxious for morning to come, that I might be off to the Louvre. I lay speculating on
the chances of my seeing De Quelus, and of his undertaking to obtain the King's protection
for me. Though appalled at what I had done, I had no wish to die,--the youth in me cried for
life; and the more I desired life, the more fearful I became of failing to get De Quelus's
intercession.

I grew many years older in that night. In a single flash, I had beheld things hitherto unknown
to me: the perfidy of which a woman was capable, the falseness of that self-confidence and
vanity which may delude a man into thinking himself the conqueror of a woman's heart, the danger
of going, carelessly, on in a suspicious matter without looking forward to possible consequences.
I saw the folly of thoughtlessness, of blind self-confidence, of reckless trust in the honesty
of others and the luck of oneself. I had learned the necessity of caution, of foresight, of
suspicion; and perhaps I should have to pay for the lesson with my life.

Turning on the bed, watching the window for the dawn, giving in my mind a hundred different
forms to the account with which I should make De Quelus acquainted with the matter, I passed
the most of that night. At last, I fell asleep, and dreamt that I had told De Quelus my story,
and he had brought me the King's pardon; again, that I was engaged in futile efforts to approach
him; again, that De Noyard had come to life. When De Rilly awoke me, it was broad daylight.

I dressed, and so timed my movements as to reach the Louvre at the hour when De Quelus would
be about to officiate at the King's rising. De Rilly left me at the gate, wishing me good fortune.
He had to go to oversee the labors of some grooms in the King's stables. One of the guards
of the gate sent De Quelus my message. I stood, in great suspense, awaiting the answer, fearing
at every moment to see the Duke of Guise ride into the Place du Louvre on his way to crave
an interview with the King.

At last a page came across the court with orders that I be admitted, and I was soon waiting
in a gallery outside the apartments of the chamberlains. After a time that seemed very long,
De Quelus came out to me, with a look of inquiry on his face.

Ignoring the speech I had prepared for the occasion, I broke abruptly into the matter.

"M. de Quelus," I said, "last night, in a sudden quarrel which arose out of a mistake, I was
so unfortunate as to kill M. de Noyard. It was neither a duel nor a murder,--each of us seemed
justified in attacking the other."

De Quelus did not seem displeased to hear of De Noyard's death.

"What evidence is there against you?" he asked.

"That of M. de Noyard's servant, to whom I acknowledged that I had killed his master. Other
evidence may come up. What I have come to beg is your intercession with the King--"

"I understand," he said, without much interest. "I shall bring up the matter before the King
leaves his bed."

"When may I expect to know?" I asked, not knowing whether to be reassured or alarmed at his
indifference.

"Wait outside the King's apartments. I am going there now," he replied.

I followed him, saw him pass into the King's suite, and had another season of waiting. This
was the longest and the most trying. I stood, now tapping the floor with my foot, now watching
the halberdiers at the curtained door, while they glanced indifferently at me. Various officers
of the court, whose duty or privilege it was to attend the King's rising, passed in, none heeding
me or guessing that I waited there for the word on which my life depended. I examined the tapestry
over and over again, noticing, particularly, the redoubtable expression of a horseman with
lance in rest, and wondering how he had ever emerged from the tower behind him, of which the
gateway was half his size.

A page came out of the doorway through which De Quelus had disappeared. Did he bring word to
me? No. He glanced at me casually, and passed on, leaving the gallery at the other end. Presently
he returned, preceding Marguerite, the Queen of Navarre, whom he had gone to summon.

"More trouble in the royal family," I said to myself. The King must have scented another plot,
to have summoned his sister before the time for the petite levee. I feared that this would
hinder his consideration of my case.

Suddenly a tall figure, wearing a doublet of cloth of silver, gray velvet breeches, gray mantle,
and gray silk stockings, strode rapidly through the gallery, and curtly commanded the usher
to announce him. While awaiting the usher's return, he stood still, stroking now his light
mustaches, and now his fine, curly blonde beard, which was little more than delicate down on
his chin. As his glance roved over the gallery it fell for a moment on me, but he did not know
me, and his splendid blue eyes turned quickly away. His face had a pride, a nobility, a subtlety
that I never saw united in another. He was four inches more than six feet high, slender, and
of perfect proportion, erect, commanding, and in the flower of youth. How I admired him, though
my heart sank at the sight of him; for I knew he had come to demand my death! It was the Duke
of Guise. Presently the curtains parted, he passed in, and they fell behind him.

And now my heart beat like a hammer on an anvil. Had De Quelus forgotten me?

Again the curtains parted. Marguerite came out, but this time entirely alone. As soon as she
had passed the halberdiers, her eyes fell on me, but she gave no sign of recognition. When
she came near me, she said, in a low tone, audible to me alone, and without seeming to be aware
of my presence:

"Follow me. Make no sign,--your life depends on it!"

She passed on, and turned out of the gallery towards her own apartments. For a moment I stood
motionless; then, with a kind of instinctive sense of what ought to be done, for all thought
seemed paralyzed within me, I made as if to return to the chamberlains' apartments, from which
I had come. Reaching the place where Marguerite's corridor turned off, I pretended for an instant
to be at a loss which way to go; then I turned in the direction taken by Marguerite. If the
halberdiers, at the entrance to the King's apartments, saw me do this, they could but think
I had made a mistake, and it was not their duty to come after me. Should I seek to intrude
whither I had no right of entrance, I should encounter guards to hinder me.

Marguerite had waited for me in the corridor, out of sight of the halberdiers.

"Quickly, monsieur!" she said, and glided rapidly on. She led me boldly to her own apartments
and through two or three chambers, passing, on the way, guards, pages, and ladies in waiting,
before whom I had the wit to assume the mien of one who was about to do some service for her,
and had come to receive instructions. So my entrance seemed to pass as nothing remarkable.
At last we entered a cabinet, where I was alone with her. She opened the door of a small closet.

"Monsieur," she said, "conceal yourself in this closet until I return. I am going to be present
at the petite levee of the King. Do not stir, for they will soon be searching the palace, with
orders for your arrest. Had you not come after me, at once, two of the Scotch Guards would
have found you where you waited. I slipped out while they were listening to the orders that
my mother added to the King's."

I fell on my knee, within the closet.

"Madame," I said, trembling with gratitude, "you are more than a queen. You are an angel of
goodness."

"No; I am merely a woman who does not forget an obligation. I have heard, from one of my maids,
who heard it from a friend of yours, how you knocked a too inquisitive person into the moat
beneath my window. I had to burn the rope that was used that night, but I have since procured
another, which may have to be put to a similar purpose!"

And, with a smile, she shut the closet door upon me.

CHAPTER V.

HOW LA TOURNOIRE ESCAPED FROM PARIS

I heard the key turn in the lock, and the Queen of Navarre leave the cabinet. She took the
key with her, so that a tiny beam of light came through the keyhole, giving my dark hiding-place
its only illumination.

I felt complete confidence both in Marguerite's show of willingness to save me, and in her
ability to do so. All I could do was to wait, and leave my future in her hands.

After a long time, I heard steps in the cabinet outside the closet door, the beam of light
from the keyhole was cut off, the key turned again, the door opened, and Marguerite again stood
before me.

"Monsieur," she said, "that we may talk without danger, remain in the closet. I will leave
the door slightly ajar, thus, and will sit here, near it, with my 'Book of Hours,' as if reading
aloud to myself. Should any one come, I can lock your door again and hide the key. Hark! be
silent, monsieur!"

And as she spoke, she shut the door, locked it, drew out the key, and sat down. I listened
to learn what had caused this act of precaution.

"Madame," I heard some one say, "M. de l'Archant desires, by order of the King, to search your
apartments for a man who is to be arrested, and who is thought to have secreted himself somewhere
in the palace."

"Let him enter." said Marguerite. My heart stood still. Then I heard her say, in a tone of
pleasantry:

"What, M. le Capitain, is there another St. Bartholomew, that people choose my apartments for
refuge?"

"This time it is not certain that the fugitive is here," replied Captain de l'Archant, of the
bodyguard. "He is known to have been in the palace this morning, and no one answering his description
has been seen to leave by any of the gates. It was, indeed, a most sudden and mysterious disappearance;
and it is thought that he has run to cover in some chamber or other. We are looking everywhere."

"Who is the man?" asked Marguerite, in a tone of indifference.

"M. de la Tournoire, of the French Guards."

"Very well. Look where you please. If he came into my apartments, he must have done so while
I attended the petite levee of the King; otherwise I should have seen him. What are you looking
at? The door of that closet? He could not have gone there without my knowledge. One of the
maids locked it the other day, and the key has disappeared." Whereupon, she tried the door,
herself, as if in proof of her assertion.

"Then he cannot be there," said De L'Archant, deceived by her manner; and he took his leave.

For some minutes I heard nothing but the monotonous voice of Marguerite as she read aloud to
herself from her "Book of Hours."

Then she opened my door again. Through the tiny crack I saw a part of her head.

"Monsieur," she said to me, keeping her eyes upon the book, and retaining the same changeless
tone of one reading aloud, "you see that you are safe, for the present. No one in the palace,
save one of my maids, is aware that I know you or have reason to take the slightest interest
in you. Your entrance to my apartments was made so naturally and openly that it left no impression
on those who saw you come in. I have since sent every one of those persons on some errand,
so that all who might happen to remember your coming here will suppose that you left during
their absence. It was well that I brought you here; had I merely told you to leave the palace,
immediately, you would not have known exactly how matters stood, and you would have been arrested
at your lodgings, or on your way to your place of duty. By this time, orders have gone to the
city gates to prevent your leaving Paris. Before noon, not only the body-guard, the Provost
of the palace, and the French and Scotch Guards will be on the lookout for you, but also the
gendarmes of the Provost of Paris. That is why we must be careful, and why stealth must be
used in conveying you out of Paris."

"They make a very important personage of me," I said, in a low tone.

"Hush! When you speak imitate my tone, exactly, and be silent the instant I cough. Too many
people are not to be trusted. That you may understand me, you must know precisely how matters
stand. This morning my mother went to see the King in his chamber before he had risen. They
discussed a matter which required my presence, and I was sent for. After we had finished our
family council, my mother and I remained for a few words, in private, with each other. While
we were talking, M. de Quelus came in and spoke for a while to the King. I heard the King reply,
'Certainly, as he preserved you to me, my friend.' De Quelus was about to leave the King's
chamber, when the Duke of Guise was announced. De Quelus waited, out of curiosity, I suppose.
M. de Guise was admitted. He immediately told the King that one of his gentlemen, M. de Noyard,
had been killed by the Sieur de la Tournoire, one of the French Guards. I became interested,
for I remembered your name as that of the gentleman who, according to my maid, had stopped
the spy from whom I had had so much to fear. I recalled, also, that you had the esteem of my
brother's faithful Bussy d'Amboise. My mother immediately expressed the greatest horror at
De Noyard's death, with the greatest sympathy for M. de Guise; and she urged the King to make
an example of you."

I remembered, with a deep sigh, what De Rilly had told me,--that Catherine, to prevent the
Duke of Guise from laying the death of De Noyard to her, would do her utmost to bring me to
punishment.

"The King looked at De Quelus," continued Marguerite. "That gentleman, seeing how things were,
and, knowing that the King now wishes to seem friendly to the Duke, promptly said, 'This is
fortunate. La Tournoire is now waiting for me in the red gallery; I suppose he wishes to beg
my intercession. His presumption will be properly punished when the guards arrest him there.'"

I turned sick, at this revelation of treachery. This was the gentleman who owed his life to
me, and, in the first outburst of gratitude, had promised to obtain for me a captaincy!

"The King," Marguerite went on, "at once ordered two of the Scotch Guards to arrest you. All
this time, I had been standing at the window, looking out, as if paying no attention. My mother
stopped the guards to give them some additional direction. No one was watching me. I passed
carelessly out, and you know what followed. At the petite levee, I learned what was thought
of your disappearance,--that you had seen the Duke of Guise enter the King's apartments, had
guessed his purpose, and had precipitately fled."

I did not dare tell his sister what I thought of a King who would, without hesitation or question,
offer up one of his guards as a sacrifice to appease that King's greatest enemy.

"And now, monsieur," said Marguerite, still seeming to read from her book, "the King and the
Queen, my mother, will make every effort to have you captured, lest it be thought that they
are secretly protecting the slayer of M. de Noyard. To convince you that you may rely on me,
thoroughly, I will confess that it is not solely gratitude for your service the other night
that induces me to help you,--although my gratitude was great. I had seen the spy rise out
of the moat and all night I was in deadly fear that he had reached the guard-house and prevented
my brother's flight, or, at least, betrayed me. When I became convinced that he had not done
so, I thanked Heaven for the unknown cause that had hindered him. So you may imagine, when
my maid told me that a friend of her lover's was that unknown cause, how I felt towards that
friend."

"Madame," I said, with emotion, "I ought to be content to die, having had the happiness of
eliciting your gratitude!"

"But I am not content that you should die, for I wish you to serve me once more, this time
as a messenger to my brother, the Duke of Anjou, who is at Angers; to M. Bussy d'Amboise, who
is with him; and to my husband, the King of Navarre, who is at Nerac, in Gascony. Thus it is
to my own interest to procure your safe escape from Paris. And if you reach Nerac, monsieur,
you cannot do better than to stay there. The King of Navarre will give you some post more worthy
of you than that of a mere soldier, which you hold here."

"I enlisted in the French Guards," I hastened to explain, "because I was unknown, and a Huguenot,
and could expect no higher beginning."

"For the very reason that you are a Huguenot, you can expect a great deal from the King of
Navarre. His kingdom is little more than a toy kingdom, it is true, and his court is but the
distant echo of the court of France, but believe me, monsieur,"--and here Marguerite's voice
indicated a profound conviction,--"there is a future before my husband, the King of Navarre!
They do not know him. Moreover, Paris will never be a safe place for you as long as the Duke
of Guise lives. He does not forget!"

I knew that Marguerite had excellent means of knowing the Duke of Guise, and I did not dispute
her assertion. Moreover, I was now quite willing to go from the city wherein I was to have
achieved such great things. My self-conceit had been shaken a little.

"But if every exit is watched, how can I leave Paris?" I asked.

"The exits were watched to prevent the going of my brother Anjou," said Marguerite, "but he
went. He crossed the Seine with his chamberlain, Simier, and his valet, Cange, and went to
the Abbey of St. Genevieve, of which the gardens are bounded by the city wall. The Abbot Foulon
was secretly with us. M. Bussy had returned to Paris, and was waiting at the Abbey for Monsieur.
They left Paris by way of the Abbey garden. The Abbot is a cautious soul, and to protect himself,
in case of discovery, he had M. Bussy tie him to a chair, and after Monsieur and Bussy had
joined their gentlemen, outside, and galloped off toward Angers, the Abbot came to the Louvre,
and informed the King of Monsieur's escape. Now I suppose we shall have to make use of the
same ingenious Foulon."

"You know what is best, madame," I said.

"But the Abbot of Saint Genevieve would not do for you, or even for me, what he would do for
my brother Anjou. If he knew who you were, he might gladly seize an opportunity to offset,
by giving you up, the suspicion that he had a hand in my brother's escape."

"But if there is a suspicion of that, will they not watch the Abbey now, on my account?"

"No; for you are not of my brother's party, and the Abbot would have no reason for aiding you.
The question is how to make him serve us in this. I must now think and act, monsieur, and I
shall have to lock you up again."

She rose and did so, and again I was left to meditate. It is astonishing how unconcerned I
had come to feel, how reliant on the ingenuity of this charming princess with the small head,
the high, broad forehead, the burning, black eyes the curly blonde hair, the quizzically discrete
expression of face.

After some hours, during which I learned, again, the value of patience, the door was opened,
and Marguerite thrust in some bread and cold meat, which she had brought with her own hand.
I took it in silence, and stooped to kiss the hand, but it was too soon withdrawn, and the
door locked again.

When the door next opened, Marguerite stood before it with a candle in her hand. I therefore
knew that it was night. In her other hand, she held four letters, three of them already sealed,
the fourth open.

"I have made all arrangements," she said, quickly. "This letter is to the Abbot Foulon. Read it."

She handed it to me, and held the candle for me while I read:

This gentleman bears private letters to Monsieur. As he was about to depart with them, I learned
that the King had been informed of his intended mission, and had given orders for his arrest
at the gate. I call upon you to aid him to leave Paris, as you aided my brother Anjou. His
arrest would result in a disclosure of how that matter was conducted.

MARGUERITE.

I smiled, when I had finished reading the letter.

"That letter will frighten Brother Foulon into immediate action," said Marguerite, "and he
will be compelled to destroy it, as it incriminates him. Take these others. You will first
go to Angers, and deliver this to the Duke of Anjou, this to M. de Bussy. Then proceed to Gascony
with this, for the King of Navarre."

"And I am to start?"

"To-night. I shall let you down into the moat, as Monsieur was let down. You cannot cross the
bridges of the Seine, lest you be stopped by guards at the entrances; therefore I have employed,
in this matter, the same boy who served me the other night. Go immediately from the moat to
that part of the quay which lies east of the Hotel de Bourbon. You will find him waiting there
in a boat. He will take you across the river to the Quay of the Augustines, and from there
you will go alone to the Abbey. When Foulon knows that you come in my name, he will at once
admit you. I am sorry that there is not time to have a horse waiting for you outside the fortifications."

"Alas, I must leave my own horse in Paris! I must go forth as a deserter from the Guards!"

"It is better than going to the executioner," said Marguerite, gaily. "For the last time, monsieur,
become a bird in a cage. I am about to retire. As soon as all my people are dismissed, and
the palace is asleep, I shall come for you."

The door closed again upon my prison of a day. I placed the letters within my doublet, and
looked to the fastening of my clothes, as a man who prepares for a race or contest. I straightened
myself up in my place of concealment, and stood ready to attempt my flight from this Paris
of which the King had made a cage to hold me.

More waiting, and then came Marguerite, this time without a candle. She stood in the darkness,
in a white robe de nuit, like a ghost.

"Now, monsieur," she whispered.

I stepped forth without a word, and followed her through the cabinet into a chamber which also
dark. Three of Marguerite's maids stood there, in silence, one near the door, the other two
at the window. One of the latter held a stout stick, to the middle of which was fastened a
rope, which dangled down to the floor and lay there in irregular coils. I saw this by the little
light that came through the window from the clouded night sky.

Marguerite took the stick and held it across the window. It was longer than the width of the
window, and hence its ends overlapped the chamber walls on either side.

"Are you ready, monsieur?" asked Marguerite, in a whisper.

"Ready, madame."

Still holding the stick in position with one hand, she opened the window with the other, and
looked out. She then drew in her head, and passed the loose end of the rope out of the window.
Then she looked at me, and stood a little at one side, that I might have room to pass.

Summoning a bold heart, I mounted the window-ledge, got on my knees with my face towards the
chamber, caught the rope in both hands, lowered my head, and kissed one of the hands of the
Queen of Navarre; then, resting my weight on my elbows, dropped my legs out of the window.
Two more movements took my body after them, and presently I saw before me only the wall of
the Louvre, and was descending the rope, hand after hand, the weight of my body keeping the
stick above in position.

When I was half-way down, I looked up. The wall of the palace seemed now to lean over upon
me, and now to draw back from me. Marguerite was gazing down at me.

At last, looking down, I saw the earth near, and dropped. I cast another glance upward. Marguerite
was just drawing in her head, and immediately the rope's end flew out of my reach.

"There's no going back the way I came!" I said, to myself, and strode along the moat to find
a place where I could most easily climb out of it. Such a place I found, and I was soon in
the street, alone, near where I had been wont to watch under the window of Mlle. d'Arency.
I took a last look at the window of Marguerite's chamber. It was closed, and the rope had disappeared.
My safety was no longer in the hands of the Queen of Navarre. She had pointed out the way for
me, and had brought me thus far; henceforth, I had to rely on myself.

I shivered in the cold. I had left my large cloak beside the dead body of M. de Noyard the
previous night, and had worn to the Louvre, in the morning, only a light mantle by way of outer
covering.

"Blessings on the night for being so dark, and maledictions on it for being so cold!" I muttered,
as I turned towards the river.

I had reached the Hotel de Bourbon, when I heard, behind me, the sound of footsteps in accord.
I looked back. It was a body of several armed men, two of them bearing torches.

Were they gendarmes of the watch, or were they guards of the King? What were they doing on
my track, and had they seen me?

Probably they had not seen me, for they did not increase their gait, although they came steadily
towards me. The torches, which illuminated everything near them, served to blind them to what
was at a distance from them.

Fortunately, I had reached the end of the street, and so I turned eastward and proceeded along
the quay, high walls on one side of me, the river on the other. It had been impossible for
Marguerite to indicate to me the exact place at which the boat was to be in waiting. I did
not think it best, therefore, to go to the edge of the quay and look for the boat while the
soldiers were in the vicinity. They might come upon the quay at the moment of my embarking,
and in that event, they would certainly investigate. So I walked on along the quay.

Presently I knew, by the sound of their steps, that they, too, had reached the quay, and that
they had turned in the direction that I had taken. I was still out of the range of their torchlight.

"How far will I be made to walk by these meddlesome archers?" I asked myself, annoyed at this
interruption, and considering it an incident of ill omen. I looked ahead, to see whither my
walking would lead me.

I saw another body of gendarmes, likewise lighted by torches, just emerging from a street's
end, some distance in front of me. They turned and came towards me.

I stopped, feeling for an instant as if all my blood, all power of motion, had left me. "Great
God!" I thought, "I am caught between two rows of teeth."

I must wait no longer to seek the boat. Would God grant that it might be near, that I might
reach it before either troop should see me?

I ran to the edge of the quay and looked over into the river. Of all the boats that lay at
rest there, not one in sight was unmoored, not one contained a boatman!

The two bodies of men were approaching each other. In a few seconds the two areas of torchlight
would merge together. On one side were walls, frowning and impenetrable; on the other was the
river.

I took off my sword and dagger, on account of their weight, and dropped them with their sheathes
into the river. I started to undo the fastening of my mantle, but the knot held; my fingers
became clumsy, and time pressed. So I gave up that attempt, threw away my hat, let myself over
the edge of the quay, and slid quietly into the icy water. I immediately dived, and presently
came to the surface at some distance from the shore. I then swam for the middle of the river.
God knows what powers within me awoke to my necessity. I endured the cold, and found strength
to swim in spite of the clothes that impeded my movements and added immensely to my weight.

Without looking back, I could tell, presently, from the talking on the quay that the two detachments
of gendarmes had met and were standing still. Had either one descried me, there would have
been loud or hurried words, but there were none. After a while, during which I continued to
swim, the voices ceased, and I looked back. Two torches remained on the quay. The others were
moving away, along the river. I then made a guess, which afterward was confirmed as truth.
The boy sent by Marguerite had been discovered in his boat, had been taken to the guard-house,
and had given such answers as led to the suspicion that he was waiting to aid the flight of
some one. The captain of the Guard, thinking so to catch the person for whom the boatman waited,
had sent two bodies of men out, one to occupy the spot near which the boy had been found, the
other to patrol the river bank in search of questionable persons. I had arrived on the quay
in the interval between the boy's capture and the arrival of the guards.

My first intention was to reach the left bank and proceed to the Abbey of St. Genevieve. But
it occurred to me that, although a boat could not pass down the river, out of Paris, at night,
because of the chain stretched across the river from the Tour du Coin to the Tour de Nesle,
yet a swimmer might pass under or over that chain and then make, through the faubourg outside
the walls, for the open country. Neither Marguerite nor I had thought of this way of leaving
Paris, because of the seeming impossibility of a man's surviving a swim through the icy Seine,
and a flight in wet clothes through the February night. Moreover, there was the necessity of
leaving my sword behind, and the danger of being seen by the men on guard at the towers on
either side of the river. But now that necessity had driven me into the river, I chose this
shorter route to freedom, and swam with the current of the Seine. In front of me lay a dark
mass upon the water in the middle of the river. This was the barge moored there to support
the chain which stretched, from either side, across the surface of the water, up the bank and
to the Tour de Nesle on the left side, and to the Tour du Coin on the right. I might pass either
to the right or to the left of this barge. Naturally, I chose to avoid the side nearest the
bank from which I had just fled, and to take the left side, which lay in the shadow of the
frowning Tour de Nesle.

By swimming close to the left bank of the river, I might pass the boundary without diving under
the chain, for the chain ascended obliquely from the water to the tower, leaving a small part
of the river's surface entirely free. But this part was at the very foot of the tower, and
if I tried passage there I should probably attract the attention of the guard. I was just looking
ahead, to choose a spot midway between the barge and the left bank, when suddenly the blackness
went from the face of things, a pale yellow light took its place, and I knew that the moon
had come from behind the clouds. A moment later, I heard a cry from the right bank of the river,
and knew that I was discovered. The shout came from the soldiers whom I had so narrowly eluded.

I knew that it was a race for life now. The soldiers would know that any man swimming the Seine
on a February night was a man whom they ought to stop. I did not look back,--the one thing
to do was to pass the Tour de Nesle before the guards there should be put on the alert by the
cries from the right bank. So on I swam, urging every muscle to its utmost.

Presently came the crack of an arquebus, and spattering sounds behind me told me where the
shot had struck the water. I turned to swim upon my left side, and so I got a glimpse of the
quay that I had left. By the hurried movement of torches, I saw that the body that had gone
to patrol the river bank was returning to rejoin the other force. Of the latter, several men
were unmooring and manning a large boat. I turned on my back to have a look at the sky. I saw
that very soon a heavy mass of black cloud would obscure the moon. At once I turned, and made
towards the left bank, as if not intending to pass the chain. I could hear the men in the boat
speaking rapidly at this, as if commenting on my change of course. Again looking back, I saw
that the boat had pushed off, and was making towards that point on the left bank for which
I seemed to be aiming. And now I had something else to claim my attention: the sound of voices
came from the Tour de Nesle. I cast a glance thither. A troop of the watch was out at last,
having taken the alarm from the movements on the right bank. This troop from the Tour de Nesle
was moving towards the place for which I seemed to be making; hence it was giving its attention
solely to that part of the left bank which was inside the fortifications. I felt a thrill of
exultation. The moon passed under the clouds. I changed my course, and struck out for the chain.
The light of the torches did not reach me. Both the boat from the right bank and the watch
from the Tour de Nesle continued to move towards the same point. I approached the chain, took
a long breath, dived, felt the stifling embrace of the waters for a season, rose to the surface,
breathed the air of heaven again, and cast a look behind. The chain stretched between me and
the distant boat and torches. I was out of Paris.

I swam on, past the mouth of the Paris moat, and then made for the left bank. Exhaustion seized
me as I laid hold of the earth, but I had strength to clamber up. I fell into a sitting posture
and rested my tired arms and legs. What pains of cold and heat I felt I cannot describe. Presently,
with returning breath, came the strength to walk,--a strength of which I would have to avail
myself, not only that I might put distance between myself and Paris, but also to keep my wet
clothes from freezing. I rose and started.

Choosing not to follow the left bank of the Seine, which was unknown territory to me, I turned
southeastward, in the hope of finding the road by which I had entered Paris. To reach this,
I had but to traverse the Faubourg St. Germaine, along the line of the wall of Paris. I had
already gone some distance along the outer edge of the moat, with the sleeping faubourg on
my right, when I heard, behind me, the sound of men treading a bridge. I looked back. The bridge
was that which crossed the moat from the Tour de Nesle.

Had the guards at last discovered my way of eluding pursuit, and was I now being sought outside
the walls? It appeared so, for, after crossing the moat, the troop divided into two bodies,
one of which went toward the left bank below the chain, where I had landed, while the other
came along the moat after me. I began to run. The moon came out again.

"Look! he is there!" cried one of my pursuers. I heard their footsteps on the frozen earth,--they,
too, were running. But I had the advantage in one respect: I had no weapons to impede me. The
coming out of the moon did not throw me into despair; it only increased my determination to
make good the escape I had carried so far. Though nature, herself, became the ally of the King
of France and the Duke of Guise against me, I would elude them. I was filled with hate and
resolution.

Suddenly, as I ran, it occurred to me that I was a fool to keep so near the fortifications,
for, at any of the gates, guards might emerge, alarmed by the shouts of my pursuers; and even
as I thought this, I looked ahead and saw a number of halberdiers coming from the Porte St.
Germaine. My situation was now as it had been on the quay, with this disadvantage, that I was
seen by my enemies, and this advantage, that I had a way of retreat open on my right; and I
turned and sped along a street of the Faubourg St. Germaine, towards the country.

It matters not how many pursue you, if you can run faster and longer than the best of them
all. Gradually, as I went, panting and plunging, onward, heedless of every obstacle, I increased
the distance between me and the cries behind. Soon I was out of the faubourg, but I did not
stop. I do not know what ground I went over, save that I went southward, or what village I
presently went through, save that it was silent and asleep. I came upon a good road, at last,
and followed it, still running, though a pain in my side warned me that soon I must halt. All
my hunters had abandoned the chase now but one. Every time I half turned for a backward look,
I saw this one coming after me. He had dropped his weapons, and so had enabled himself to keep
up the chase. Not being weakened by a previous swim in the Seine, he was in better form than
I, and I knew that he would catch me in time. And what then? He was a large fellow, but since
the struggle must come, I would better let it come ere I should be utterly exhausted. So I
pretended to stagger and lurch forward, and presently came to my knees and then prone upon
the ground. With a grunt of triumph, the man rushed up to me, caught me by the collar of my
doublet, and raised me from the ground. Hanging limp, and apparently senseless, I put him quite
off his guard.

"Stand up!" he cried. "Stomach of the Pope! Have I come so far only to take a dead man back?"

While he was trying to make me stand, I suddenly gathered all my energy into my right arm and
gave him a quick blow in the pit of the stomach. With a fearful howl, he let me go and fell
upon his knees. A blow in the face then made him drop as limp as I had pretended to be; and
I resumed my flight, this time at a more leisurely pace.

And now all my physical powers seemed to be leaving me. Pains racked my head, and I seemed
at one time to freeze and burn all over, at another time to freeze in one part and burn in
another. I ached in my muscles, my bones, my stomach. At every step, I felt that it was vastly
difficult to take another, that it would be ineffably sweet to sink down upon the earth and
rest. Yet I knew that one taste of that sweetness meant death, and I was determined not to
lose a life that had been saved from so great peril by so great effort. Despite all the soldiers
at their command, the King of France and the Duke of Guise should not have their will with
me. At last,--I know not how far from Paris,--I came to an inn. There were still a few crowns
in my pocket. Forgetting the danger from which I had fled, not thinking that it might overtake
me here, feeling only the need of immediate shelter and rest, I pounded on the door until I
got admittance. I have never had any but the vaguest recollection of my installation at that
inn, so near to insensibility I was when I fell against its door. I have a dim memory of having
exchanged a few words with a sleepy, stolid host; of being glad of the darkness of the night,
for it prevented him from noticing my wet, frozen, begrimed, bedraggled, half-dead condition;
of my bargaining for the sole occupancy of a room; of his leading me up a winding stairway
to a chamber; of my plunging from the threshold to the bed as soon as the door was opened.
I slept for several hours. When I awoke, it was about noon, and I was very hungry and thirsty.
My clothes had dried upon me, and I essayed to put them into a fairly presentable condition.
I found within my doublet the four letters, which had been first soaked and then stiffened.
The now useless one addressed to the Abbot Foulon, I destroyed; then I went down to the kitchen,
and saw, with relief, that it was empty. I ate and drank hurriedly but ravenously. Again the
fear of capture, the impulse to put Paris further and further behind, awoke in me. I bought
a peasant's cap from the landlord, telling him that the wind had blown my hat into the river
the previous night, and set forth. It was my intention to walk to La Tournoire, that my money
might last. Afoot I could the better turn from the road and conceal myself in woods or fields,
at any intimation of pursuit. At La Tournoire, I would newly equip myself with clothes, weapons,
horse, and money; and thence I would ride to Angers, and finally away, southward, to Nerac.

It was a fine, sunlit day when I stepped from the inn to take the road going southward. I had
not gone four steps when I heard horses coming from the north. I sought the shelter of a shed
at the side of the inn. There was a crack between two boards of this shed, through which I
could look. The horses came into sight, ten of them. The riders were brown-faced men, all armed
with swords and pistols, and most of them having arquebusses slung over their backs. Their
leader was a large, broad, black-bearded man, with a very ugly red face, deeply scarred on
the forehead, and with fierce black eyes. He and his men rode up to the inn, beat on the door,
and, when the host came, ordered each a stirrup-cup. When the landlord brought the wine, the
leader asked him some questions in a low tone. The landlord answered stupidly, shaking his
head, and the horsemen turned to resume their journey. Just as they did so, there rode up,
from the south, a merry-looking young cavalier followed by two mounted servants. This newcomer
gaily hailed the ill-looking leader of the troop from the north with the words:

"Ah, M. Barbemouche, whither bound, with your back towards Paris?"

"For Anjou, M. de Berquin," growled the leader.

"What!" said the other, with a grin. "Have you left the Duke of Guise to take service with
the Duke of Anjou?"

"No, M. le Vicomte," said the leader. "It is neither for nor against the Duke of Anjou that
we go into his province. It is to catch a rascal who may be now on the way to hide on his estate
there, and whom my master, the Duke of Guise, would like to see back in Paris."

"Indeed? Who is it that has given the Duke of Guise so great a desire for his company?"

"The Sieur de la Tournoire," replied Barbemouche. "Have you met him on the road?"

"I have never heard of him, before," said the young cavalier, indifferently; and he rode on
northward, while Barbemouche and his men silently took the opposite direction.

He had never heard of me, as he said, nor I of him; yet he was to know much of me at a time
to come, was the Vicomte de Berquin; and so was Barbemouche, the scowling man who was now riding
towards Anjou in search of me.

CHAPTER VI.

HOW HE FLED SOUTHWARD

When one is pursued, one's best course is to pursue the pursuer. So, when M. Barbemouche and
his troop of Guisards had gone some distance down the road, I came forth from the shed and
followed them, afoot, keeping well to the roadside, ready to vanish, should any of them turn
back. It was evident that Barbemouche had little or no hope of catching me on the road. His
plan was to surprise me at my chateau, or to lie there in wait for me. He had not shown any
persistence in questioning the landlord. The latter, through laziness or sheer stupidity, or
a fear of incurring blame for having sheltered a fugitive, had not given him any information
that might lead him to suspect that the man he was seeking was so near. So I could follow,
in comparative safety, into Anjou.

Their horses constantly increased the distance between the Guise man-hunters and me, their
desired prey. In a few hours they were out of sight. Thus they would arrive at La Tournoire
long before I could. Not finding me there, they would probably put the servants under restraint,
and wait in ambush for me. Several days of such waiting, I said to myself, would exhaust their
patience; thereupon, they would give up the hope of my seeking refuge at La Tournoire, and
would return to their master. My best course, therefore, would be to take my time on the road,
to be on the alert on coming near La Tournoire, and to lie in hiding until I should be assured
of their departure. In order to consume as much time as I could, and to wear out the enemy's
patience without putting my own to the test, I decided to go first to Angers, deliver Marguerite's
letters to Monsieur and Bussy d'Amboise, and then make for La Tournoire. Therefore, when, after
a few days of walking, I came to LeMans, I did not turn southward, towards La Tournoire, but
followed the Sarthe southwestward to Angers.

On this journey, I skirted Rambouillet, Anneau, and the other towns in my way, and avoided
large inns, for fear of coming up with the Guise party. I made my money serve, too, by purchasing
cheaply the hospitality of farmers and woodmen. My youth had withstood well the experiences
attending my escape from Paris, and enabled me to fare on the coarse food of the peasantry.
There was plenty of healthy blood in my veins to keep me warm. Outside of my doublet, my shoulders
had no covering but the light mantle, of which I was now glad that I had been unable to rid
myself in my swim down the Seine. People who saw me, with my rumpled clothes and shapeless
ruff and peasant's cap, probably took me for a younger son who had endured hard fortune.

Such was my condition when I reached Angers and presented myself at the gate of the chateau
wherein the Duke of Anjou had taken residence. There were many soldiers in and about the town,
and horsemen were arriving and departing. I might not easily have obtained audience of the
Duke, had not Bussy d'Amboise ridden up at the head of a small troop of horse, while I was
waiting at the gate. I called out his name, and he recognized me, showing surprise at my appearance.
I gave him his letter, and he had me conducted to the Duke, who was striding up and down the
hall of the chateau. His mind was evidently preoccupied, perhaps already with fears as to the
outcome of his rebellious step, and he did not look at me when he took the letter. His face
brightened, though, when he saw the inscription in Marguerite's handwriting, and he went, immediately,
to a window to read the letter. Bussy d'Amboise, who had dismounted and come in with me, now
beckoned me to follow him, and when we were outside, he offered to supply me with a horse,
money and arms, proposing that I enter the service of the Duke of Anjou. But I told him that
I was bound for Gascony, and when he still offered me some equipment, I protested that I would
refurnish myself at my own chateau; so he let me go my way. I could see that he was in haste
to break the seal of Marguerite's letter.

I had gone two leagues or more northward from Angers, and was about to turn eastward toward
La Tournoire, when I saw a long and brilliant cortege approaching from the direction of Paris.
Several men-at-arms were at the head, then came a magnificent litter, then a number of mounted
ladies and gentlemen, followed by a host of lackeys, a number of mules with baggage, and another
body of soldiers. This procession was winding down the opposite hillside. The head of it was
already crossing the bridge over a stream that coursed through the valley toward the Sarthe.
Slowly it came along the yellow road, the soldiers and gentlemen holding themselves erect on
their reined-in horses, the ladies chatting or laughing, and looking about the country, the
wind stirring the plumes and trappings, the sunlight sparkling on the armor and halberds of
the guards, the sword-hilts of the gentlemen, the jewels and rich stuffs which shone in the
attire of the riders. There were velvet cloaks and gowns; satin and silk doublets, breeches,
and hose; there were cloth of gold and cloth of silver. Here and there the cavalcade passed
clumps of trees that lined the road, and it was then like pictures you have seen in tapestry.

Concealment had lately become an instinctive act with me, and I now sought refuge in the midst
of some evergreen bushes, at a little distance from the road, from which I could view the cavalcade
as it passed. On it came, the riders throwing back their shoulders as they filled their lungs
with the bracing country air. The day was a mild one for the time of year, and the curtains
of the litter were open. Inside sat a number of ladies. With a start, I recognized two of the
faces. One was Mlle. d'Arency's; the other was the Queen-mother's. Mlle. d'Arency was narrating
something, with a derisive smile, to Catherine, who listened with the slightest expression
of amusement on her serene face.

Catherine was going to try to persuade her son, the Duke of Anjou, to give up his insurrectionary
designs and return to the court of his brother. I guessed this much, as I lay hidden in the
bushes, and I heartily wished her failure. As for Mlle. d'Arency, I have no words for the bitterness
of my thoughts regarding her. I grated my teeth together as I recalled how even circumstance
itself had aided her. She could have had no assurance that in the combat planned by her I should
kill De Noyard, or that he would not kill me, and yet what she had desired had occurred. When
the troop had passed, I arose and started for La Tournoire. It seemed to me that a sufficient
number of days had now passed to tire the patience of Barbemouche, and that I might now visit
my chateau for the short time necessary.

Nevertheless, it was with great caution that I approached the neighborhood in which all my
life, until my departure for Paris, had been passed. At each bend of the road, I stopped and
listened before going on. When I entered a piece of woods, I searched, with my eyes, each side
of the road ahead, for a possible ambush. When I approached the top of a hill, it was with
my ears on the alert for the sound of horsemen or of human feet, and, when I reached the crest,
I found some spot where, lying on my stomach or crouching behind underbrush, I could survey
the lowland ahead. And so, meeting no indication of peril, treading familiar and beloved ground,
I at last reached the hill-top from which I would have my long-expected view of La Tournoire.
It was just sunset; with beating heart, I hastened forward, risking something in my eagerness
to look again upon the home of my fathers. I gazed down, ready to feast my eyes on the dear
old tower, the peaceful garden, the--

And I saw only a smouldering pile of ruins, not one stone of my chateau left upon another,
save a part of the stables, before which, heeding the desolation no more than crows are repelled
by the sight of a dead body, sat M. Barbemouche and two of his men throwing dice. Only one
tree was left in the garden, and from one of its limbs hung the body of a man, through which
a sword was thrust. By the white hair of the head, I knew the body was that of old Michel.

So this was the beginning of the revenge of the Duke of Guise upon a poor gentleman for having
eluded him; thus he demonstrated that a follower of his might not be slain with impunity. And
the Duke must have had the assurance of the King that this deed would be upheld; nay, probably
the King, in his design of currying favor with his powerful subject, had previously sanctioned
this act, or even suggested it, that the Duke might have no ground for suspecting him of protecting
me.

Grief at the sight of the home of my youth, the house of my ancestors, laid low, gave way to
rage at the powerful ones to whom that sight was due,--the Duke who despoiled me, the King
who had not protected me, the Queen as whose unknowing tool I had made myself liable to this
outrage. As I stood on that hill-top, in the dusk, and looked down on the ruins of my chateau,
I declared myself, until death, the enemy to that Queen, that Duke, and that King,--most of
all to that King; for, having saved the life of his favorite, having taken humble service in
his Guards, and having received from him a hinted promise of advancement, I had the right to
expect from him a protection such as he gave every day to worthless brawlers.

At nightfall, I went to the hovel of a woodman, on whose fidelity I knew I could depend. At
my call, he opened the door of his little hut, and received me with surprise and joy. With
him was a peasant named Frolichard.

"Then you are alive, monsieur?" cried the woodman, closing the door after me, and making for
me a seat on his rude bed.

"As you see," I replied. "I have come to pass the night in your hut. To-morrow I shall be off
for the south."

"Alas, you have seen what they have done! I knew nothing of it until Michel was dead, and the
servants came fleeing through the woods. They have gone, I know not where, and the tenants,
too. All but Frolichard. As yet, the soldiers have not found this hut."

By questioning him, I learned that M. Barbemouche had denounced me as a heretic and a traitor
(I could see how my desertion from the French Guards might be taken as implying intended rebellion
and treason), and had told Michel that my possessions were confiscated. What authority he pretended
to have, I could not learn. It was probably in wrath at not finding me that he had caused the
destruction of my chateau, to make sure that it might not in any circumstances shelter me again.

I well knew that, whatever my rights might be, my safety lay far from La Tournoire; and so
did my means of retaliation.

"If I had but a horse and a sword left!" I said.

"There is a horse which I have been using, in my shed," replied the forester; "and I made one
of the servants leave here the swords that he was carrying away in his flight. Moreover, he
had filled a bag with crowns from Michel's strong box. So you need not leave entirely unprovided."

I thanked the faithful fellow as he brought forth the swords and the little bag of gold pieces
from under his bed, and then I lay down to sleep. The peasant Frolichard was already dozing
in a corner by the fire.

I was awakened suddenly by a shake of the shoulder. The woodman stood by the bed, with every
sign of alarm on his face.

"Monsieur," he whispered, "I fear you would best eat and begone. That cursed rascal, Frolichard,
left while I was asleep. I am sure that the devil has been too much for him. He has probably
gone to tell the soldiers that you are here. Eat, monsieur!"

I sprang up, and saw that the forester had already prepared some porridge for me.

"It is nearly dawn," he added, as I looked around I swallowed a few mouthfuls of the porridge,
and chose the better one of the swords. Then I took up the little bag of golden crowns, and
went out to mount horse. The animal that the woodman held for me was a sorry one, the ugliest
and oldest of my stable.

Yet I rode blithely through the woods, happy to have again a horse under me, and a sword at
my side. I knew that the forester could take care of himself as long as there should remain
woods to hunt in or streams to fish in.

When I reached, the road it was daylight. I made for the hill-top, and stopped for a last look
at my fields. I did not have to hesitate as to my course. In my doublet was Marguerite's letter,
to be borne to the King of Navarre. Yet there was another reason why I should not attach myself
to the Duke of Anjou, although he was already in rebellion against the King: the look on his
face, when I saw him at Angers, had convinced me that he would not hold out. Should Catherine
not win him back to allegiance, his own weakness would. I would place my hopes in the future
of Henri of Navarre. Nothing could, as yet, be predicted with assurance concerning this Prince,
who, being the head of the house of Bourbon, which constituted the younger branch of the Royalty
of France, was the highest, by blood, of the really Huguenot leaders. Some, however, whispered
that there was more in him than appeared in his amours and his adventures of the chase.

I was just about to turn my horse's head towards the south, when a man came out of my half-ruined
stable and looked up at me. Instantly he called to some one in the stable, and two or three
other soldiers came out. I recognized the burly form of one of these as that of Barbemouche.
Another figure, a limp and cringing one, was that of Frolichard the peasant. Barbemouche gave
some orders, and two or three brought horses out of the stable. I knew what all this meant.

I turned my horse, and galloped off towards the south. In a few moments I heard the footfalls
of galloping horses behind me. Again I was the object of a chase.

When I had gone some distance, I looked back and saw my hunters coming, ten of them, down the
hillside behind me. But the morning was bracing, and my horse had more life in him than at
first sight appeared. I put another hill behind me, but in time my followers appeared at its
crest. Now they gained on me, now I seemed to leave them further behind. All day this race
continued. I bore directly southward, and hence passed far east of Angers. I soon made up my
mind that M. Barbemouche was a man of persistence. I did not stop anywhere for food or drink.
Neither did M. Barbemouche. I crossed the Loire at Saumur. So did he.

"Very well," I said. "If my horse only holds out, I will lead you all the way to Gascony."

Once I let my horse eat and rest; twice I let him drink.

At nightfall, the sound of the hoofs behind me gradually died away. My own beast was foaming
and panting, so I reined in to a walk. Near Loudun, I passed an inn whose look of comfort,
I thought, would surely tempt my tired pursuers to tarry, if, indeed, they should come so far.
Some hours later, coming to another and smaller inn, and hearing no sound of pursuit behind
me, I decided to stop for a few hours, or until the tramp of horses' feet should disturb the
silence of the night.

The inn kitchen, as I entered, was noisy with shouts and curses. One might have expected to
find a whole company of soldiers there, but to my surprise, I saw only one man. This was a
robust young fellow, with a big round face, piercing gray eyes, fiercely up-sprouting red mustache,
and a double--pointed reddish beard. There was something irresistibly pugnacious, and yet good-natured,
in the florid face of this person. He sat on a bench beside a table, forcibly detaining an
inn maid with his left arm, and holding a mug of wine in his right hand. Beside him, on the
bench, lay a sword, and in his belt was a pistol. He wore a brown cloth doublet, brown breeches,
and green hose.

"A thousand devils!" he roared, as I entered. "Must a fighting man stand and beg for a kiss
from a tavern wench? I don't believe in any of your painted saints, wooden or ivory, but I
swear by all of them, good-looking girls are made to be hugged, and I was made to hug them!
Here, you ten times damned dog of a landlord, bring me another bottle of your filthy wine,
or I'll make a hole in your barrel of a body! Be quick, or I'll roast you on your own spit,
and burn down your stinking old inn!" At this moment he saw me, as I stood in the doorway.
"Come, monsieur!" he cried, "I'm not fastidious, curse me, and you might drink with me if you
were the poxy old Pope himself! Here, wench, go and welcome the gentleman with a kiss!" And
he shoved the girl towards me and began to pound, in sheer drunken turbulence, on the table
with his mug.

I left the kitchen to this noisy guest, and took a room up-stairs, where the landlord presently
brought me light and supper.

I paid in advance for my night's lodging, and arranged to have access, at any time during the
night, to the shed in which was my horse, so that at the least alarm I might make hasty flight.
I opened my window, that the sound of horses on the road might be audible to me from a distance.
Then, having eaten, I put out my light and lay down, in my clothes, ready on occasion to rise
and drop from the window, take horse, and be off.

From the kitchen, below, came frequent sounds emitted or caused by the tipsy young Hercules
in the brown doublet. Now he bellowed for wine, now he thundered forth profanity, now he filled
the place with the noise of Gargantuan laughter; now he sang at the top or the depth of his
big, full voice; then could be heard the crash of furniture in collision. These sounds continued
until far into the night.

I had intended not to sleep, but to lie with ears alert. I could not yet bring myself to feel
that I was safe from pursuit. So used had I become to a condition of flight, that I could not
throw off the feeling of being still pursued. And yet, I had hoped that Barbemouche would tire
of the chase. My plan had not been to confuse him as to my track, by taking by-roads or skirting
the towns, but merely to outrun him. Because I wished to reach Nerac at the earliest possible
moment, and because the country was new to me and I desired not to lose my way, I had held
to the main road southward, being guided in direction by the sun or the stars. Moreover, had
I made detours, or skirted cities, Barbemouche might have gone ahead by the main road and lain
in wait further south for my coming up, for Frolichard, the peasant, had heard me tell the
woodman my destination. So, in that first day's flight, I had trusted to the speed of my horse,
and now there was some reason to believe that Barbemouche had abandoned pursuit, as the soldiers
had done who chased me from Paris. And yet, it seemed to me that this ugly Barbemouche was
not one to give up his chosen prey so soon.

Despite my intention, I feel asleep, and when I awoke it was daylight. I sprang up and went
cautiously down-stairs, sword in hand. But there was no danger. Only the host and a servant
were stirring in the inn. I made a rapid breakfast, and went to see my horse fed. Before the
shed, I saw the young man who had made such drunken tumult in the kitchen the previous night.
He was just about to mount his horse; but there was now nothing of the roysterer about his
look or manner. He had restored neatness to his attire, and his expression was sedate and humble,
though strength and sturdiness were as apparent in him as ever.

"A fine morning," I said, as the inn-servant brought out my own horse.

"Yes, monsieur," said the young man, in a very respectful tone. "A sunrise like this is a gift
from the good God."

"Yet you look pensive."

"It is because I know how little I deserve such mercy as to live on such a day," answered the
man, gravely; and he bowed politely, and rode southward.

This devoutness and humility impressed me as being strangely out of harmony with the profanity
and turbulence of the night before, yet the one seemed no less genuine than the other.

My horse fed, I mounted and rode after the sturdy youth.

Not far from Mirebeau, happening to turn my head towards the north, I saw, in the distance,
a group of horsemen approaching at a steady gallop. From having looked back at this group many
times during the preceding day, I had stamped certain of its figures on my memory, and I now
recognized it as Barbemouche and his party.

"Another day of it," I said, to myself, and spurred my horse to a gallop.

An increase in their own pace told me that they in turn had recognized me.

"This grows monotonous," I mused. "If there were only fewer of them, or more of me, I would
make a stand."

Presently I came up with the young man in the brown doublet. He stared at me with a look of
inquiry as I passed at such speed; then he looked back and saw the distant horsemen coming
on at equal speed. He appeared to realize the situation at a glance. Without a word, he gave
his own horse a touch of the spur, with the manifest intention of keeping my company in my flight.

"You have a good horse," I said to him, at the same time watching him out of the corner of
my eye, seeking some indication that might show whether, on occasion, he would stand as my
friend or my enemy.

"Better than yours, I fear, monsieur," he replied.

"Mine has been hard run," I said, lightly.

Presently he looked back, and said:

"Ah, the devil! Your friends, back there, are sending out an advance guard. Three of them are
making a race of it, to see which shall have the honor of first joining you."

I looked back. It was true; three of them were bearing down with great speed, evidently on
fresh horses. Barbemouche remained back with the rest.

I urged on my horse.

"It is useless, monsieur," said the young man at my side. "Your beast is no match for theirs.
Besides, you will not find a better place to make a stand than the bridge yonder." And he pointed
ahead to a bridge that crossed a narrow stream that lay between high banks.

"What, face ten men?" I said.

"There are only three. The thing may be over before the others come up."

I laughed. "Well, admitting that, three against one--" I began.

"Oh, there will be two of us," replied the other.

My heart gave a joyous bound, but I said, "I cannot expect you to risk your life in my quarrel."

And he answered, "By God! I myself have a quarrel with every man that wears on his hat the
white cross of the Guises!" His grey eyes flashed, his face became red with wrath. "Let us
stop, monsieur."

We stopped and turned our horses on the narrow bridge. We both drew sword and waited. My new-found
ally threw back his hat, and I saw across his forehead a deep red scar, which I had not before
noticed.

The three men rode up to the attack. They all stopped suddenly before they reached the bridge.

"Give up your sword and come with us, monsieur," cried one of them to me.

I said nothing. "Go to hell!" roared my companion. And with that he charged with the fury of
a wild beast, riding between two of the horsemen, and thrusting his sword through the eye and
into the brain of one before either could make the least show of defence. His horse coming
to a quick stop, he drew his weapon out of the slain man's head and turned on the other. While
there was some violent fencing between the two, and while the dead man's horse reared, and
so rid itself of its bleeding burden, the third horseman urged his horse towards me. I turned
the point of his rapier, whereupon he immediately backed, and then came for me again just as
I charged on him. Each was too quick to meet the other's steel with steel. His sword passed
under my right arm and my sword under his right arm, and we found ourselves linked together,
arm to arm. I saw him reach with his left hand for his dagger, and I grew sick at the thought
that I had no similar weapon with which to make matters even. He plucked the dagger from his
belt, and raised it to plunge it into my back; but his wrist was caught in a clutch of iron.
My man in the brown doublet, in backing his horse to make another charge on his still remaining
opponent, had seen my antagonist's motion, and now, with a twist of his vigorous fingers, caused
the dagger to fall from a limp arm. Then my comrade returned to meet his own enemy, and I was
again on equal terms with mine. We broke away from each other. I was the quicker to right myself,
and a moment later he fell sidewise from his horse, pierced through the right lung.

I backed my horse to the middle of the bridge, and was joined by my stalwart friend, who had
done for his second man with a dagger thrust in the side.

"Whew!" he panted, holding his dripping weapons on either side of him, so as not to get any
more blood on his clothes. Then a grin of satisfaction appeared on his perspiring face, and
he said:

"Three Guisards less to shout 'Vive la messe.' It's a pity we haven't time to exchange horses
with these dead whelps of hell. But the others are coming up, and we ought to rest awhile."

We sheathed our weapons and spurred on our horses, again southward. Looking back, soon, we
saw that the other pursuers, on coming up to their dead comrades, had chosen first to look
after the belongings of the latter rather than to avenge their deaths. And while Barbemouche
and his men, of whom there were now six, tarried over the dead bodies, we made such good speed
that at last we were out of sight of them.

My first use of my returned breath was to thank my stalwart ally.

He received my gratitude with great modesty, said that the Lord had guided his arm in the fight,
and expressed himself with a humility that was in complete contrast to the lion-like fury shown
by him in the combat. Judging him, from his phrases, to be a Huguenot, I asked whether he was
one, by birth, as I was.

"By birth, from my mother," he replied. "My father was a Catholic, and in order to win my mother,
he pretended to have joined the reformers. That deceit was the least of his many rascally deeds.
He was one of the chosen instruments of the devil,--a violent, roystering cut-throat, but a
good soldier, as was shown in Italy and at St. Quentin, Calais, Jarnac, and elsewhere. My mother,
though only the daughter of an armorer's workman, was, in goodness, an angel. I thank God that
she sometimes has the upper hand in me, although too often it is my father that prevails in
me." He sighed heavily, and looked remorseful.

In subsequent talk, as we rode, I learned that he was a soldier who had learned war, when a
boy, under Coligny. He had fought at his father's side against Italians, Spanish, and English,
and against his father in civil war. His father had died of a knife-wound, received, not in
battle, but from a comrade in a quarrel about a woman, during the sacking of a town. His mother,
when the news of the fate of her unworthy spouse reached the village where she lived, died
of grief. The son was now returning from that village, which was near Orleans, and whither
he had been on a visit to his relations, to Gascony, where he had been employed as a soldier
in the small army with which Henri of Navarre made shift to garrison his towns.

I told him that I hoped to find a place in that little army.

"You do well, monsieur," said the young soldier, whose intelligence and native dignity made
him, despite his peasant origin, one with whom a gentleman might converse. "Some day they will
learn in France of what stuff the little Bearnaise King is made. I have stood watching him
when he little supposed that a common soldier might take note of such things, and I have seen
on his face the sign of great intentions. More goes on under that black hair than people guess
at,--he can do more than drink and hunt and make love and jest and swear."

He was in no haste to reach Gascony, he said, and so he intended to visit a former comrade
who dwelt in a village some leagues from my road. In the afternoon, coming to the by-road which
led to this place, he left me, with the words:

"My name is Blaise Tripault, and should it happen that you ever enroll a company for the King
of Navarre--"

"The first name on my list shall be Blaise Tripault," I replied, smiling, and rode on, alone.

Whenever I heard riders behind me, I looked back. At evening I reached an eminence which gave
a good view of the country through which I had passed. Two groups of horsemen were visible.
One of these consisted of seven men. The chief figure was a burly one which I could not mistake,--
that of Barbemouche.

"Peste!" I muttered, frowning. "So they are following me into Poitou! Am I never to have any rest?"

I took similar precautions that night to those which I had taken the night before. The next
day, about noon, emerging out of a valley, I saw my pursuers on the top of the hill at my rear.
Plainly, they intended to follow me to the end of the earth. I hoped they would stop in Poitiers
and get drunk, but they tarried there no more than I. And so it was, later, at Civray and at
Angouleme.

Every day I got one or two glimpses of this persistent pack of hounds. Every night I used like
measures to make sudden flight possible. One night the sound for which I kept my ears expectant
reached them,--the sound of horses' hoofs on the hard road. I dropped from the open window
of the inn at which I was, led out my horse from the shed, and made off, southward. The noise
made by their own horses prevented my pursuers from hearing that made by mine. Presently the
clatter abruptly ceased, whereupon I knew that they had stopped at the inn which I had left.
My relief at this was offset by chagrin at a discovery made by me at the same moment: I had
left my bag of golden crowns in the inn chamber. I dared not now go back for them. Well, Nerac
could not be far away, now. I had traversed a good part of Guienne. The Dordogne was behind me.

I was glad that I had taken better care of the letter from Marguerite to her husband than I
had taken of my crowns. Fortunately it had not left my doublet. I felt that my future depended
on the delivery of that letter. There could be no doubt that Marguerite had recommended me
in it with a favor that would obtain for me both protection and employment from the King of
Navarre.

Daylight came, and with it hunger. I stopped at an inn, and was about to dismount, when I remembered
that I had no money.

I could do without food for a time, but my horse could not. I told the landlord,--a short,
heavy, square-faced, small-eyed man,--that I would, later, send him payment for a breakfast.
He looked at me with a contempt that even a peasant dare show to a gentleman, when the gentleman
has no money.

"Very well, then," I said. "I will leave you security."

He looked more respectful at this, and made a quick examination of me with his eyes.

"Unless you have some jewelry about you," he said, "your sword is the only thing that I would
accept."

"You clod," I exclaimed, in a rage. "I ought to give you my sword through the body."

"A gentleman ought not to demand, for nothing, that which a poor man makes his living by selling,"
answered the host, turning to go in.

I looked down at my horse, which had already shown an endurance beyond its stock, and which
now turned its eyes, hungrily, towards the inn stable. At the same time I thought I heard the
sound of hoofs, away northward. After all, the delivery of the letter depended more on the
horse than on my sword, for one horse is more likely to beat seven horses than one sword to
beat seven swords.

To try whether it were possible, I made one movement, as if to hand over the weapon. But my
arm refused. As well try to pluck the heart out of my body, and give it to the dog's keeping.
Rather kill the man on his own threshold and, like a brigand, help myself. But I chose to be
merciful.

"Be quick, then," I said. "Bring me some wine, and feed my horse as it stands here. I could
take, for nothing, what you ask such high security for."

"And I have three strong sons," said the innkeeper, impudently. But he brought the wine, and
ordered one of his sons to bring oats for the horse. So we made our breakfast there, horse
and man, standing before the inn door. When the animal had licked up the last grain, I suddenly
hurled the heavy wine-mug at the innkeeper's head, wheeled my horse about, and galloped off,
shouting back to the half-stunned rascal, "Your three sons must be swift, as well as strong,
to take my sword." And I rode on, southward.

"Will the Guisards follow me over this river, also?" I asked myself, as I crossed the Garonne.

In the afternoon, I stopped for another look backward. There was not a soul to be seen on the road.

"Adieu, M. Barbemouche!" I said. "I believe you have grown tired of me at last."

At that instant a group appeared at the distant turn of the road. I counted them. Seven! And
they were coming on at the speed of the wind.

I patted my horse on his quivering neck. "Come, old comrade," I said. "Now for one last, long
race. In your legs lies my future."

He obeyed the spur, and his increased pace revealed a slight lameness, which had not before
been perceptible.

"We have only to reach some Gascon town," I said to him. "The soldiers of the King of Navarre
will protect the bearer of a letter to him from their Queen."

I turned in my saddle, and looked back. They were gaining ground.

"They know that this is their last chance," I said. "We are near the country held by the King
of Navarre, and so they make a last effort before giving up the chase. On, my staunch fellow!
You shall have fine trappings, and shall fare as well as your master, for this!"

The animal maintained its pace as if it understood; but it panted heavily and foamed, its eyes
took on a wild look, and its lameness increased.

"They are coming nearer, there is no doubt of it!" I told myself. "Have I escaped from the
Louvre and from Paris, led my enemies a chase through five provinces, to be taken when refuge
is at last in sight? Shall Marguerite's letter to Henri of Navarre fall into the hands of those
who wish him no good?"

Tears gushed from my eyes as I thought of the cruelty of destiny, which had sustained me so
far in order to betray me at the end. I took the letter from my doublet, and held it ready
to tear into pieces should I indeed be caught. Although Marguerite was thought to have secrets
with the Duke of Guise, it was likely that she would not wish him to know what she might write
to her husband, whose political ally she always was.

And now my horse dropped its head lower at each bound forward. The seven horses behind showed
no sign of tiring.

"Thank God, I kept my sword! I can kill one of them, at least!"

I no longer looked back. Blindly forward I went, impelled only to defer the end to the last
possible moment. God knew what might yet intervene.

Suddenly my horse gave a snort of pain, stumbled blindly, and fell to his knees. He slid forward
a short distance, carried on by his impetus, and then turned over on his side, and lay quivering.
I had taken my feet from the stirrups at his stumble, so that I now stood over his body.

I heard the loud clank of the hoofs behind. I stepped over the horse, and drew my sword. A
short distance ahead was a clump of scrubby pines; there I would turn and make my stand.

Then was the time when I might have torn up the letter, had I not suddenly forgotten my intention.
I held it clutched in my hand, mechanically, as I ran. I was conscious of only one thing,--that
death was bearing down on me. The sound of the horses' footfalls filled my ears. Louder and
louder came that sound, drowning even the quick panting of my breath. Again came that aching
in the side, that intolerable pain which I had felt in my flight from Paris.

I pressed my hand to my side, and plunged forward. Suddenly the road seemed to rise and strike
me in the face. I had fallen prostrate, and now lay half-stunned on the earth. I had just time
to turn over on my back, that I might face my pursuers, when the foremost horse came up.

"Well, my man," cried the rider, in a quick, nervous voice, as I looked stupidly up at his
short, sturdy figure, hooked nose, keen eyes, black hair and beard, and shrewd, good-natured
face, "did you think the devil was after you, that you ran so hard? Ventre Saint Gris! You
would make an excellent courier."

"I am a courier," I answered, trying to rise. "I ran so fast that I might soon reach Nerac
with this letter for your majesty."

And I held the letter out to King Henri of Navarre.

CHAPTER VII.

HOW HE ANNOYED MONSIEUR DE LA CHATRE

I had never seen Henri of Navarre, before, but had often heard him described, and no other
man exactly fitted his description. His favorite oath confirmed my recognition.

He took the letter, saying, "It looks as if it had been through fire and flood"

"I had to swim the Seine with it," I said.

He read it, sitting on his horse in the middle of the road, I standing beside the horse, the
other six riders eyeing me curiously.

Having finished it, he looked at me with some interest and approval. "And what made you run
from us?" he asked.

"Sire, there were seven horsemen left in the party that has been chasing me for some days past.
Counting seven in your group, I too quickly assumed that it was the same."

The King of Navarre laughed, and ordered one of the lackeys to give me his horse and proceed
afoot to the nearest town. When I was mounted, he asked me to ride beside him.

"The speed at which you rode excited our curiosity," he explained, "and that is why we gave chase."

I learned, later, that Henri and three of his gentlemen, with three valets, had been inspecting
the defences of one of his Gascon towns, and were now returning to Nerac. He sometimes traversed
those parts of his French provinces where his authority as governor was recognized, without
any state, and often without a guard.

In reply to his questions, I said that I preferred a military position to a civil one, but
confessed my inexperience. He told me that I might serve as ensign in one of his regiments,
at Nerac, until I should acquire some knowledge of military affairs, when he would give me
a captain's commission, and I might enlist a company.

I told him of the destruction of my chateau, and the loss of my money. He thereupon required
me to accept the horse on which I rode, and a purse which one of the valets handed over to
me. As he then beckoned one of his gentlemen to his side, I fell back. We entered Nerac in
the evening. As soon as the gate was passed, the King and his followers turned towards the
chateau, and I took the main street to an inn.

The King of Navarre kept his promises. I had been ensign for only a few months, stationed at
Nerac, when he sent for me, and informed me that he intended to augment his army, and that
he would maintain a company of my raising. He caused a captain's commission to be given to
me before I left the chateau. I walked thence, down the avenue of fine trees, which were now
in full leaf, before the chateau, debating with myself the possibility of easily raising a
company. When I reached the square before the inn, I heard from within a human roar which had
a familiar sound. Entering, I found that it proceeded from the stentorian lungs of Blaise Tripault,
the young soldier who had aided my flight to Gascony by killing two Guisards in my defence.
He was sitting at a table, very drunk.

"Ah, Blaise Tripault," I cried, "I see that your father prevails in you now!"

He recognized me, threw his bottle of wine out of the open window, and made an attempt at sobriety.

"You have been long on the way to Nerac," I went on, "but you come just in time to keep your
promise. I enroll you first in the company which the King has commissioned me to raise."

"I thank you, monsieur," he replied. "I will now go to bed, and will come to you as soon as
I am sober."

He was of great use to me in enlisting the company. He scoured the country daily, and brought
me recruits. When the roll was complete, I was ordered to remain at Nerac for a time. Subsequently,
I was sent to garrison different towns, one after another, not only in Gascony and parts of
Guienne but also in Henri's principality of Bearn and his little kingdom of Navarre.

I am proud to have had a share in the constant efforts made by Henri of Navarre, while the
world thought him given over entirely to gallantry at his small but agreeable court, to increase
his territory and his resources against the time when he was to strike the great blows that
no one yet dreamed he was meditating. Thanks to the unwillingness, or inability, of the King
of France to put him in actual possession of his governorship of Guienne, we had the pleasant
task, now and then, of wresting some town from the troops of the League or of Henri III. Our
Henri had to take by force the places ceded to him by the King of France as Marguerite's dower,
but still withheld from him. One of these was Cahors, in the taking of which I fought for days
in the streets, always near our Henri, where the heart of the fighting was. It was there that
Blaise Tripault covered himself with glory and the blood of the enemy, and was openly praised
by the King.

But my life in the south had other pleasures besides those of fighting. As Henri's was a miniature
kingdom, so was his court, at cheerful Nerac or sombre Pau, a miniature court; yet it had its
pretty women and gallant gentlemen. Gaiety visited us, too, from the greater world. When the
King of France and the Queen-mother thought it to their interest to seem friendly to our Henri,
they ordered Marguerite to Nerac. Catherine herself came with her, bringing the Flying Squadron,
that Henri and his Huguenots might be seduced into the onesided treaties desired by her. Catherine
was one of the few, I think, who foresaw Henri's possible future. Her astrologer, Cosmo Ruggieri,
had predicted that he would succeed her three sons to the throne of France, and I suppose she
could not endure the thought of this. Better a Guise than a Bourbon, the son of Jeanne d'Albret.
But our Henri might be useful to her as an instrument to check the Duke of Guise in any attempted
usurpation during the life of her son. Therefore, Henri was to be cajoled while he was being
restrained. But he was not fooled into disadvantageous compacts or concessions. All that he
lost was a single town, which Catherine caused to be attacked while he was at a fete; but he
learned of this at the fete, and retaliated by taking a town of the French King's on the same
night.

I was presented to Catherine while she was at Nerac. No allusion was made to the circumstances
which had caused my flight from Paris, or, indeed, to my having ever been in Paris. Yet, from
her scrutiny of my features, I knew that she recalled those circumstances with my name. But
Nerac was not the place where it would serve her to concern herself about me. I learned from
one of Catherine's gentlemen that Mlle. d'Arency, who had not come with her to Nerac, had wedded
the Marquis de Pirillaume, who was jealous and kept her on his estate in Dauphiny, away from
the court. I wished him joy of her.

When Catherine and her troop went back to the French court, leaving Marguerite at Nerac, they
could boast of a few Huguenot gentlemen won over to their designs, but I was not one of the
few. I do not say that I did not amuse myself where charming women abounded, but I kept my
heart to myself. I had not resolved to become invulnerable to woman, but I had determined that
she by whom I would let myself be wounded should be one vastly unlike any in Catherine's train.
When I should find the woman pure as beautiful, incapable of guile, I would love. "Somewhere
in France," I often said to myself, "that woman exists. I shall know her when I see her." As
in the former affair, I had my ideal already formed, and was already in love, watching for
the embodiment of that ideal to appear. But this second ideal was different from the first.
And it is time to tell how at last I met her,--and how, for a while, the reality seemed worse
even than the first The death of the Duke of Anjou, after his reconciliation with the King,
his brother, and his failure to win the crown he sought in the Netherlands, was a great event
for us in Gascony. It left our Henri of Navarre next in succession to the throne of France.
And our Henri was a sturdy man, while Henri III. seemed marked by destiny to follow the three
other sons of Catherine to an early grave. It appeared that Marguerite monopolized all the
longevity granted to the family. But we knew that the Guises and their League would not let
our Huguenot Henri peacefully ascend his throne. Therefore, Henri's policy was to strengthen
himself against the time when the death of Henri III. should leave the throne vacant for him.
It was his interest also to prevent a usurpation of that throne during the life of Henri III.,
for such a usurpation would eventually exclude himself also. Thus circumstance made him the
natural ally of Henri III. It was, conversely, the interest of the Guises to sow enmity between
the two kings. The power of the League in France, and particularly in Paris, was now so great
that Henri III. dared not oppose the wishes of the Duke of Guise. He was reduced to devices
for gaining time. And so, against his own interest, he sanctioned the war which the League
presently demanded against the Huguenots,--a war which might do two things for the Duke of
Guise: destroy the next heir to the throne, and deprive the present King of his chief resource
against a usurpation. For the present, the Duke of Guise cloaked his design by having the Pope
proclaim the old Cardinal de Bourbon heir to the throne, our Henri being declared ineligible
on account of heresy.

In the summer of 1585, the King of France issued anti-Huguenot edicts required by the League.
Governors of provinces were ordered to make it uncomfortable for the "heretics." Several of
them promptly obeyed, arresting some Huguenots for remaining in their provinces, and arresting
others for trying to escape therefrom. By this time, Henri of Navarre had gathered a sufficient
army and acquired a sufficient number of towns to hold his own in Guienne, and, indeed, throughout
southwestern France. The Prince de Conde also put a Huguenot army in the field. Pending the
actual opening of war, which the edicts of Henri III. foreshadowed, our Henri maintained a
flying camp in Guienne. Every day recruits came, some of them with stories of persecution to
which they had been subjected, some with accounts of difficulty in escaping from their provinces.
One day I was summoned to the presence of Henri of Navarre.

"M. de la Tournoire," said he, speaking with his usual briskness and directness, "there are,
in most of the provinces of France, many Huguenots who have publicly recanted, to save their
lives and estates. Many of these are secretly for us. They would join me, but they fear to
do so lest their estates be confiscated. These are to be assured that what they may lose now
by aiding me shall some day be restored to them. Here is a list of a number of such gentlemen
in the province of Berry, and you are to give them the assurances necessary to enlist them
in our cause. Use what persuasions you can. Take your company, and find some place of concealment
among the hills of the southern border of Berry. You can thus provide escort in crossing the
border for those who may need it. Where you can in any way aid a Huguenot to escape from the
province, where you can rescue one from death or prison, do so, always on condition of promised
service in our cause. As for the gentlemen whose names are on this list, have them bring, as
contributions, what money and arms they can. We are in even greater need of these than of men.
Impress upon these gentlemen that their only hope of ultimate security lies in our triumph.
It is a task of danger with which I charge you, monsieur, and I know that you will, therefore,
the more gladly undertake it. The governor of Berry, M. de la Chatre, is one of the bulwarks
of the League. I learn that he is enforcing the edicts of Henri III. against the Protestants
with the greatest zeal. He is devoted to the Duke of Guise, and is one of our most formidable
enemies. It will not, therefore, be well for you to fall into his hands. Go, monsieur, and
God be with you!"

I bowed my thanks for the favor of this dangerous mission, and went away with the list in my
doublet, proud of having been made the confidant of Henri's resolution to fight for his rights
to the end. I was elated, too, at the opportunity to work against the King of France and the
Duke of Guise.

To annoy and hamper M. de la Chatre in his work of carrying out the public edicts of the King
and the secret designs of the Duke, would give me the keenest joy. For once, both my great
enemies, usually so opposed to each other in interest, could be injured at the same time by
the same deeds; and such deeds would help my beloved captain, by whom I had been chosen to
perform them. I could hardly contain my happiness when I returned to my company, and ordered
immediate preparations for a night's march northward.

We set out, myself and Tripault mounted, the others afoot, with several horses bearing provisions
and supplies. Marching at night, and concealing ourselves in the forests by day, we at last
reached the mountains that form part of the southern boundary of Berry. They were thickly wooded,
and though the month of August made them a series of masses of deep green, they presented a
sombre aspect.

"It is somewhere up there," I said, pointing toward the still and frowning hills before us,
"that we are to find a burrow, from which to issue forth, now and then, to the plains on the
other side."

"The only man in the company who knows this country," replied my devoted squire, Blaise Tripault,
"is Frojac, but he makes up for the ignorance of the others by knowing it very well. He can
lead us to the most deserted spot among these mountains, where there is an abandoned chateau,
which is said to be under a curse."

"If part of it is under a roof as well, so much the better," I answered. "Bring Frojac to me."

Blaise rode back along the irregular line formed by my rude soldiers, picked out an intelligent
looking young arquebusier, and led him forward to me. I made this man, Frojac, our guide.

After toilsome marches, forcing our way up wooded ascents devoid of human habitation, and through
almost impenetrable thickets of brushwood, we crossed the highest ridge of the mountain chain,
and from a bare spot, a natural clearing, gazed down on the Creuse, which wound along the line
formed by the northern base of the mountains. Beyond that lay the province of Berry, which
was to be the scene of our operations. Some leagues to the northeast, crowning a rocky eminence
that rose from the left bank of the Creuse, stood a mass of grim-looking towers and high gray
walls. From the southern side of this edifice, a small town ran down the declivity to the plain.

"What is that place yonder?" I asked.

"It is the town and chateau of Clochonne," said Frojac.

"Who occupies the chateau?"

"It belongs to M. de la Chatre, the governor of the province, who sometimes comes there. A
part of it is occupied by a garrison."

We resumed our progress through the forest, now descending the northern slope of the ridge.
After some hours, when night was already beginning to fall in the woods, Frojac pointed ahead
to a knoll covered with huge trees between whose trunks the space was choked with lesser vegetation.

"There it is," he said. "The Chateau de Maury."

We made our way through the thicket, and came suddenly upon ruined walls, rising in the midst
of trees. Wild growths of various kinds filled up what had been the courtyard, and invaded
the very doors. The broken walls and cracked towers themselves seemed as much a part of nature
as the trees and bushes were. Branches thrust themselves through apertures in the crumbling
stone. Southward from the foot of the knoll rose the mountains, eastward and westward extended
an undulating natural platform that interrupted the descent of the mountain side. Northward
the ground fell in a steep precipice to the left bank of the Creuse, along which ran a little-used
road from Clochonne, which was northeast, to Narjec, which was southwest.

"Is there a path down the slope, by which we could reach that road, should we wish to go north
by way of Clochonne?" I asked.

"I do not think so," replied Frojac. "But there used to be a road from here to Clochonne, through
the forest. It has not been used since the Sieur de Maury left, twenty years ago, to hunt for
gold in the new world. They said that, before going, he made a compact with the devil, here,
by which Satan was to lead him to a land of gold across the sea. The devil is believed to be
taking care of his estate until he returns. Perhaps this road has not been entirely wiped out
by the forest."

A part of the chateau was yet under roof. This portion included the hall and three or four
chambers above it. On the day after our arrival, we found the road through the forest still
sufficiently open to serve us for expeditious egress. This abandoned way did not itself go
to Clochonne, but it ran into a road that went from that town southward across the mountain.
At the point of junction was the abode of an old woodman and his wife, where the couple maintained
a kind of inn for the entertainment of people crossing the mountain. This man, Godeau, was
rheumatic, bent, thin, timid, shrill-voiced, and under the domination of his large, robust,
strong-lunged spouse, Marianne. By means of a little flattery, a gold piece, promises of patronage,
and hints of dire vengeance upon any who might betray me, I secured this woman's complete devotion.
These two were the only human dwellers within two leagues of our chosen hiding-place.

In Guienne, my master considered as enemies those who did not acknowledge his authority, and
he provisioned his army at their expense. Inasmuch as the province of Berry was making war
on our party, I treated it as hostile country, subject to pillage, according to the customs
of war. It is true, some of its people were friendly to our cause, but it was as much their
duty to contribute to our maintenance, since we were fighting in their behalf, as it was our
right to take from those to whom our relation was one of warfare. So I gave my men permission
to forage, putting but one condition upon them,--that of losing their lives rather than allow
our hiding-place to be disclosed. Thus, by virtue of many nightly visits to farms in the vicinity
of Clochonne and Narjec, we contrived to avoid the pangs of an empty stomach.

Having established my company on a living basis at Maury, I began with relish the work of annoying
M. de la Chatre. I sent out certain of my men, severally, to different parts of southern Berry
as seekers of information. In the guise of peasants, or of soldiers going to serve in the army
which the Governor, La Chatre, was then augmenting, they learned much that was valuable to
me. It is written, under the title of "How the Lord Protected His Own and Chastised His Enemies
in Berry," in the book called "The Manifold Mercies of God to His Children," by the pastor
Laudrec, who has reported rightly what I related to him: how we made recruits for Henri of
Navarre by finding out Huguenots in towns and villages and convincing them that they were sure
to be arrested should they remain in Berry; how we guided these out of the province by various
ways of our own discovery, across the mountain; how we interrupted the hanging of several men
at Issoudun, who had been condemned for heresy and treason, and sent them in safety to Guienne;
how certain of my men, without my authority, despoiled Catholic churches of their instruments
of idolatry, and thus helped to replenish the treasury of our master; how I once marched my
company by night to a wood near Bourges, lay in wait there until a guard came, conducting captured
Huguenots for trial, attacked the guard, rescued the prisoners, and protected them in a hurried
flight to the border, whence they proceeded to swell the army of our Henri; and how we served
our cause in numerous other exploits, which I need not relate here, as you may read them in
Laudrec's book, printed in Geneva.

The many secret departures of Huguenots from southern Berry, despite the vigilance of the garrisons
at Clochonne and other frontier strongholds, must naturally have attracted the attention of
the authorities, and so must the sudden public appearances that I made with my company on occasions
like that at Issoudun and that near Bourges. My men, who moved, unknown, among the people,
began to hear reports of a mysterious captain who hid in the southern hills and sallied forth
at night to spirit Huguenots away. To this mysterious captain and his band were attributed
not only all the exploits that we did accomplish, but many that we did not; and some daring
robberies, of which we were innocent, were laid to our charge.

Finally, in September, I had evidence that our deeds had begun to make an impression on M.
de la Chatre, the illustrious governor of the province and of the Orleannais as well. One of
my men, Roquelin, saw in the market-place of Chateauroux an offer of five hundred crowns for
the capture of this unknown rebel captain, which document was signed by La Chatre. I here saw
an opportunity to make myself known in high places as one capable of harming and defying his
enemies, despite their greatness. I was rejoiced at the hope of acquainting the Duke of Guise
and the King of France with the fact that I had survived to work defiantly against their cause,
under the very nose of one of their most redoubtable servants. I had not been of sufficient
consequence for the Duke to fear, or for the King to protect, but now I was of sufficient consequence,
as their enemy, for a price to be put on my head. So I sent one of my clever fellows, Sabray,
to fasten by night beside La Chatre's placard in Chateauroux, a proclamation of my own, in
which I offered ten crowns for the head of M. de la Chatre, and twenty crowns for that of his
master, the Duke of Guise. I appended this signature: "The Sieur de la Tournoire, who does
not forget." I knew that some of La Chatre's enemies would take great pleasure in making this
known to the Duke of Guise, and that the latter would reproach the King with my continued existence.
It irritates the great to be defied by the small, and to irritate these two great ones was
my delight.

I soon learned, with glee, that my return of compliments had reached the knowledge of the governor.
Maugert brought me word of a notice posted in Clochonne, in which La Chatre doubled his offer
and termed me the "heretic, rebel, traitor, and robber calling himself Sieur de la Tournoire."

While I gave myself the pleasure of annoying M. de la Chatre, I did not neglect the more important
service imposed on me by Henri of Navarre. Accompanied only by Blaise Tripault, and travelling
by night, I visited, one after another, the gentlemen named on my master's list, and used what
eloquence I had, pointing out the expediency of assuring future security by making present
sacrifices for our cause. Many of them required very little persuasion. On hearing that Henri
of Navarre had given his word to defend his succession with his sword, they nobly left their
estates and went to join his army, carrying with them what money and arms they could take.
Thanks to the guidance of my men, they eluded the garrisons on the border.

It was in early October, when the forests were turning yellow, brown, and red, and the fallen
leaves began to lie in the roads, that I started out with Blaise Tripault to visit the gentleman
named last on the list.

"Monsieur," said Blaise, as we neared the end of our hidden forest road and were approaching
the inn of Godeau, "I have in me a kind of feeling that this, being our last excursion, is
likely to be the most dangerous. It would doubtless please Fortune to play us an ugly trick
after having served us so well hitherto."

"Nonsense!" I replied.

"I believe that is what the famous Bussy d'Amboise said when he was warned not to keep his
appointment with Mme. de Monsoreau," returned Blaise; "yet he was, none the less, killed by
the rascals that lay in ambush with her husband."

"Thanks to the most kingly King of France, Henri III., who advised M. de Monsoreau to force
his wife to make the fatal appointment with Bussy. Thanks, also, to the truly grateful Duke
of Anjou, who rewarded Bussy for his faithful service by concurring in the plot for his assassination."

"The Duke was worse than the King, for the King has been loyal to his chosen favorites. Think
of the monument he erected in honor of De Quelus, and the others who got their deaths in that
great duel in the horse-market. Par dieu! I should like to have seen those girl-men of the
King and those Guisards killing one another!"

"I have observed, Blaise, that you take an extraordinary pleasure in the slaughter of Guisards."

"I was in Coligny's house, monsieur, on the night of the St. Bartholomew. I was one of those
who, at the Admiral's command, fled to the roof, and from the roof of the next house I saw
Coligny's body thrown into his courtyard, and the Duke of Guise turn it over with his foot
and wipe the blood from the face to see if it were indeed my old captain's. Since then, the
sight of the white cross of Guise stirs in me all the hell that my diabolical father transmitted
to me. And I should not like to see you fall into the hands of this Chatre, who is the right
arm of the Duke of Guise in Berry. That is why I give heed to the premonition that troubles
me regarding this journey."

"Certainly we cannot abandon the journey."

"No, but we can take unusual precautions, monsieur. Reports of our doings are everywhere. Has
it never occurred to you that you are, in appearance, exactly the sort of man who would be
taken for our leader? Ought you not to disguise yourself?"

"An excellent idea, Blaise! I shall put on your clothes, and you shall put on mine,--I shall
pass as your lackey. It will be quite amusing."

"That is not the disguise I should have suggested," said Blaise, looking not too well pleased
with the idea. "It would require me to pass as a gentleman."

But I saw possibilities of fun in the thing, and welcomed any means of enlivening our excursion.
Therefore, we dismounted at Godeau's inn, and made the exchange of attire, much against the
liking of Blaise, who now repented of having advised any disguise at all. My clothes were a
little too tight for Blaise, for I was of medium size, and he puffed and turned red in the
face, and presented a curious appearance of fierceness and discomfort. When I looked at him,
I could not help laughing, and he met my glance with a grim and reproachful countenance. I
did not think that his brown doublet and breeches and brown felt hat and feather were much
disguise for me. As we rode along, I diverted myself by trying to assume a servile mien, which
did not easily fit my rather bold face, prominent nose, keen gray eyes, up-curling brown mustache
and pointed brown beard. With his curly reddish hair and beard, defiant mustache, honest, big,
blue eyes, swelling red cheeks, and robust body, Blaise looked like one who must have had his
dignities thrust upon him very recently.

We reached, without accident, our destination,--the chateau of the Baron d'Equinay,--and that
gentleman was speedily won by the assurances that I bore him from Henri of Navarre. He desired,
before starting for Guienne, to go to Paris, where he had resources, and he rode off northward
at the same moment when we departed southward to return to Maury.

"It is well!" I cried to Blaise, as we rode in the bracing air of the October morning. "We
have carried our King's message to every one of his chosen adherents in Berry. We ride through
the province of M. de la Chatre, breathe his fresh air, absorb his sunshine as freely as he
does himself. You see how reliable were your premonitions when we last set out from Maury."

"It is not too late yet, monsieur," growled Blaise, whose temper was ill while he wore my clothes;
"we are not yet back at Maury."

"You will talk less dismally over a bottle of good wine, Blaise. Therefore, I intend to stop
at the first inn on the way. I hope it is a good one, for I am very hungry."

"There is an inn at this end of Fleurier," said Blaise, "but I would not stop if I were you."

But I was not to be moved from my intention. When a man has finished a set task, it is time
to eat and drink. Therefore, we stopped at the little inn at the northern edge of Fleurier.
A gray, bent innkeeper, very desirous of pleasing, welcomed us and went to look after our horses,
while Blaise, acting the part of master, ordered a black-eyed, pretty inn-maid to serve us
dinner in a private chamber. The room assigned us was at the head of a stairway leading from
the kitchen. We had no sooner seated ourselves than our ears were assailed by the clatter of
many horses on the road outside. They stopped before the inn, and we heard the voices of two
men who entered the kitchen, and of a great number who remained without. When the inn-maid
brought us a bottle of wine, Blaise asked her whose cavalcade it was that waited before the inn.

"It is that of the governor of the province, M. de la Chatre," said she, "who is below with
his secretary, M. de Montignac."

And she left the room in haste to help serve so distinguished a guest.

CHAPTER VIII.

A SWEET LADY IN DISTRESS

Blaise looked at me solemnly, with a face that seemed to say, "Did I not warn you?" We had
seated ourselves at either side of a small, rough table, I on the edge of the bed, Blaise on
a three-legged stool. For a moment I sat returning Blaise's gaze across the table; then noticing
that the maid had left the door of our chamber slightly ajar, I arose and walked stealthily
to the crack, through which I could see a part of the kitchen below. Blaise remained seated
at the table, glumly watching me.

I saw the maid bearing wine to a table near the window, where sat the two guests whose names
she had mentioned. The landlord was carrying a tray full of bottles and drinking-cups out to
La Chatre's men, who remained before the inn, some having dismounted, some still on horse.
I could hear their talk, their oaths and cries to one another and to their horses, the snorts
and pawings of their steeds. A shout of welcome greeted the coming of the landlord with the wine.

With curiosity I fastened my gaze on the two at the table. I knew instantly that the stout,
erect, authoritative gentleman with the carefully trimmed gray beard, full cheeks, proud brow,
fearless eyes, and soldierly air, must be Claude de la Chatre, governor of the Orleannais and
Berri; and that the slender, delicately formed, sinuous, graceful youth with smooth-shaven
face, fine sharply cut features, intelligent forehead, reddish hair, intent gray eyes, and
mien of pretended humility, was the governor's secretary, Montignac. La Chatre's look was frank,
open, brave. Montignac had the face of a man assuming a character, and awaiting his opportunity,
concealing his ambition and his pride, suppressing the scorn that strove to disclose itself
at the corners of his womanish mouth. La Chatre wore a rich black velvet doublet and breeches,
and black leather riding-boots. Montignac was dressed, in accordance with his pretence of servility,
in a doublet of olive-colored cloth, breeches of the same material, and buff boots. He sat
entirely motionless, looking across the table at his master with an almost imperceptibly mocking
air of profound attention.

Monsieur de la Chatre appeared to be in a bad humor. He gulped down his wine hastily, seeming
not to taste it. With a frown of irritation he drew from his belt a letter, of which the seal
was already broken. Opening it with quick, angry motions, he held it before him, and frowned
the more deeply.

"Peste!" he exclaimed, when the maid had left the kitchen; and then he went on in a rich, virile,
energetic voice: "To be met on the road by such a letter! When I saw the courier in the distance
I felt that he was bound for me, and that he brought annoyance with him. The duke has never
before used such a tone to me. If he were on the ground, and knew the trouble these dogs of
heretics give me, he would doubtless change his manner of speech."

"Monseigneur the Duke of Guise certainly wrote in haste, and therefore his expressions have
an abruptness that he did not intend," replied Montignac, in a low, discreet, deferential voice,
whose very tone was attuned to the policy of subtle flattery which he employed towards his
master. "And he acknowledges, as well, your many successes as he complains of your failure
to catch this Sieur de la Tournoire."

So the letter by which the governor was so irritated came from the Duke of Guise, and concerned
myself! My work in Berri had not been in vain. Instinctively I grasped the hilt of my sword,
and at the same time I smiled to myself to think how La Chatre might have felt had he known
that, while himself and his secretary were the only persons in the inn kitchen, the Sieur de
la Tournoire saw and heard them from the crack of the slightly open door at the top of the
stairway. To make myself safer from discovery, I now took my eye from the crack, keeping my
ear sufficiently near to catch the words of my enemies. I glanced at Blaise, who had heard
enough to acquaint him with the situation, and whose open-eyed face had taken on an expression
of alertness and amazement comical to behold. He, too, had mechanically clutched the handle
of his sword. Neither of us moving or speaking, we both listened. But the governor's next words
were drowned by the noise that came from outside, as the landlord opened the front door to
reenter the inn. La Chatre's men, now supplied with wine, had taken up a song with whose words
and tune we were well acquainted.

"Hang every heretic high,
   Where the crows and pigeons pass!
Let the brood of Calvin die;
   Long live the mass!
A plague on the Huguenots, ah!
   Let the cry of battle ring:
Huguenots, Huguenots, Huguenots, ah!
   Long live the king!"

The singers uttered the word "Huguenots," and the exclamation "ah," with an expression of loathing
and scorn which could have been equalled only by the look of defiance and hate that suddenly
alighted on the face of Blaise. He gave a deep gulp, as if forcing back, for safety, some answering
cry that rose from his breast and sought exit. Then he ground his teeth, and through closed
lips emitted from his throat a low growl, precisely like that of a pugnacious dog held in restraint.

The landlord closed the door, and the song of La Chatre's men sank into a rudely melodious
murmur. The host then went out by a rear door, and the governor resumed the conversation.

"Corboeuf! He is a fox, this Tournoire, who makes his excursions by night, and who cannot be
tracked to his burrow."

"We know, at least," put in the secretary, in his mild way, "that his burrow is somewhere in
the wooded mountains at the southern border of the province."

"Then he knows those mountains better than the garrisons do," said La Chatre. "The troops from
the southern towns have hunted the hills in vain."

"When such a task as the capture of this rebel is entrusted to many, it is not undertaken with
zeal. The chance of success, the burden of responsibility, the blame of failure, are alike
felt to be divided."

This observation on the part of the youthful secretary seemed to be regarded by the governor
as presumptuous. It elicited from him a frown of reproof. His look became cold and haughty.
Whereupon Montignac gently added:

"As you, monsieur, remarked the other day."

La Chatre's expression immediately softened.

"The governor's brains are in the head of the secretary," thought I; "and their place in his
own head is taken by vanity."

"I remember," returned La Chatre. "And I added, did I not, that--ahem, that--"

"That the finding of this Huguenot nuisance ought to be made the particular duty of one chosen
person, who should have all to gain by success, or, better still, all to lose by failure."

And the suave secretary looked at his master with an expression of secret contempt and amusement,
although the innocent governor doubtless saw only the respect and solicitude which the young
man counterfeited.

"You are right," said the governor, with unconcealed satisfaction. "I ought to reward you for
reminding me. But your reward shall come, Montignac. The coming war will give me the opportunity
to serve both the King and the Duke of Guise most effectually, and by whatever favor I gain,
my faithful secretary shall benefit."

"My benefit will be due to your generosity, not to my poor merit, monsieur," replied Montignac,
with an irony too delicate for the perception of the noble governor.

"Oh, you have merit, Montignac," said La Chatre, with lofty condescension. Then he glanced
at the letter, and his face clouded. "But meanwhile," he added, in obedience to a childish
necessity of communicating his troubles, "my favor depends, even for its continuance in its
present degree, on the speedy capture of this Tournoire. The rascal appears to have obtained
the special animosity of the Duke by some previous act. Moreover, he is an enemy to the King,
also a deserter from the French Guards, so that he deserves death on various accounts, old
and new."

Herein I saw exemplified the inability of the great to forget or forgive any who may have eluded
their power.

"Let me, therefore," continued the governor, "consider as to what person shall be chosen for
the task of bagging this wary game."

And he was silent, seeming to be considering in his mind, but really, I thought, waiting for
the useful Montignac to suggest some one.

"It need not be a person of great skill," said Montignac, "if it be one who has a strong motive
for accomplishing the service with success. For, indeed, the work is easy. The chosen person,"
he went on, as if taking pleasure in showing the rapidity and ingenuity of his own thoughts,
"has but to go to the southern border, pretending to be a Huguenot trying to escape the penalties
of the new edicts. In one way or another, by moving among the lower classes, this supposed
fugitive will find out real Huguenots, of whom there are undoubtedly some still left at Clochonne
and other towns near the mountains. Several circumstances have shown that this Tournoire has
made himself, or his agents, accessible to Huguenots, for these escapes of heretics across
the border began at the same time when his rescues of Huguenot prisoners began. Without doubt,
any pretended Protestant, apparently seeking guidance to Guienne, would, in associating with
the Huguenots along the Creuse, come across one who could direct him to this Tournoire."

"But what then?" said the governor, his eagerness making him forget his pretence of being wiser
than his secretary. "To find him is not to make him prisoner,--for the Duke desires him to
be taken alive. He probably has a large following of rascals as daring and clever as himself."

"Knowing his hiding-place, you would send a larger body of troops against him."

"But," interposed the governor, really glad to have found a weak point in the plan suggested
by his secretary, "in order to acquaint me with his hiding-place, if he has a permanent hiding-place,
my spy would have to leave him. This would excite his suspicions, and he would change his hiding-place.
Or, indeed, he may be entirely migratory, and have no fixed place of camping. Or, having one,
he might change it, for any reason, before my troops could reach it. Doubtless, his followers
patrol the hills, and could give him ample warning in case of attack."

"Your spy," said Montignac, who had availed himself of the governor's interruption to empty
a mug of wine, "would have to find means of doing two things,--the first to make an appointment
with La Tournoire, which would take him from his men; the second, to inform you of that appointment
in time for you to lead or send a company of soldiers to surprise La Tournoire at the appointed
place."

"Par dieu, Montignac!" cried the governor, with a laugh of derision. "Drink less wine, I pray
you! Your scheme becomes preposterous. Of what kind of man do you take him to be, this Sieur
de la Tournoire, who offers a reward, in my own province, for my head and that of the Duke
of Guise?"

"The scheme, monsieur," said Montignac, quietly, not disclosing to the governor the slightest
resentment at the latter's ridicule, "is quite practicable. This is the manner in which it
can be best conducted. Your chosen spy must be provided with two messengers, with whom he may
have communication as circumstances may allow. When the spy shall have met La Tournoire, and
learned his hiding-place, if he have a permanent one, one messenger shall bring the information
to you at Bourges, that you may go to Clochonne to be near at hand for the final step. Having
sent the first messenger, the spy shall fall ill, so as to have apparent reason for not going
on to Guienne. On learning of your arrival at Clochonne,--an event of which La Tournoire is
sure to be informed,--your spy shall make the appointment of which I spoke, and shall send
the second messenger to you at Clochonne with word of that appointment, so that your troops
can be at hand."

"The project is full of absurdities, Montignac," said the governor, shaking his head.

"Enumerate them, monsieur," said Montignac, without change of tone or countenance.

"First, the lesser one. Why impede the spy with the necessity of communicating with more than
one messenger?"

"Because the spy may succeed in learning the enemy's hiding-place, if there be one, and yet
fail in the rest of the design. To learn his hiding-place is at least something worth gaining,
though the project accomplish nothing more. Moreover, the arrival of the first messenger will
inform you that the spy is on the ground and has won La Tournoire's confidence, and that it
is time for you to go to Clochonne. The appointment must not be made until you are near at
hand, for great exactness must be observed as to time and place, so that you can surely surprise
him while he is away from his men."

"Montignac, I begin to despair of you," said the governor, with a look of commiseration. "How
do you suppose that La Tournoire could be induced to make such an appointment? What pretext
could be invented for requesting such a meeting? In what business could he be interested that
would require a secret interview at a distance from his followers?"

I thought the governor's questions quite natural, and was waiting in much curiosity for the
answer of Montignac, of whose perspicacity I was now beginning to lose my high opinion, when
the inn-maid entered the kitchen, and the secretary repressed the reply already on his lips.
She took from the spit a fowl that had been roasting, and brought it to our chamber. To avoid
exciting her suspicions I had to leave my place of observation and reseat myself on the bed.

Having placed the fowl, hot and juicy, on the table between us, the maid went away, again leaving
the door partly open. Blaise promptly attacked the fowl, but I returned to my post of outlook.

"Lack of zeal?" I heard the governor say. "Par-dieu, where have I let a known Huguenot rest
in peace in my provinces since the edicts have been proclaimed? And I have even made Catholics
suffer for Showing a disposition to shield heretics. There was that gentleman of this very town--"

"M. de Varion," put in Montignac.

"Ay, M. de Varion,--a good Catholic. Yet I caused his arrest because he hid his old friend,
that Polignart, who had turned heretic. Mon dieu, what can I do more? I punish not only heretics,
but also those who shield heretics. Yet the Duke of Guise hints that I lack zeal!"

"As to M. de Varion," said Montignac; "what is your intention regarding him?"

"To make an example of him, that hereafter no Catholic will dare shelter a Huguenot on the
score of old friendship. Let him remain a prisoner in the chateau of Fleurier until the judges,
whom I will instruct, shall find him guilty of treason. Then his body shall hang at the chateau
gate for the nourishment of the crows."

"Fortunately," said Montignac listlessly, "he has no family to give trouble afterward."

"No son," replied the governor. "Did not M. de Brissard say that there was a daughter?"

"Yes, an unmarried daughter who was visiting some bourgeois relation in Bourges at the time
of her father's arrest."

"When she learns of her father's incarceration she will probably pester me with supplications
for his release. See to it, Montignac, that this Mlle. de Varion be not suffered to approach me."

My eavesdropping was again interrupted by the return of the inn-maid. On going out of the chamber
this time, she closed the door. Hunger and prudence, together, overcoming my curiosity, I did
not open it, but joined Blaise in disposing of the dinner. The table at which we ate was near
the window of the chamber, and we could look out on the grassy space of land before the inn.
La Chatre's men were moving about, looking to their horses and harness, talking in little groups,
and watching for their master's appearance at the inn door.

Presently four new figures came into view, all mounted. From our window we could see them plainly
as they approached the inn. One of these newcomers was a young lady who wore a mask. At her
side rode a maid, slim, youthful, and fresh-looking. Behind these were two serving boys, one
tall, large, and strong; the other small and agile.

"By the blue heaven!" Blaise blurted out; "a dainty piece of womankind!"

"Silence, Blaise!" I said, reprovingly. "How dare you speak with such liberty of a lady?"

"I thought I was supposed to be masquerading as a gentleman," he growled. "But it was not of
the lady that I spoke. It was the maid."

The lady had the slender figure of a woman of twenty. Over a tight-fitting gown of blue cloth,
she wore a cloak of brown velvet, which was open at the front. Fine, wavy brown hair was visible
beneath her large brown velvet hat. She wore brown gloves and carried a riding whip. As for
her face, her black mask concealed the upper part, but there were disclosed a delicate red
mouth and a finely cut chin. The throat was white and full.

The maid was smaller than the mistress. She had a pretty face, rather bold blue eyes, an impudent
little mouth, an expression of self-confidence and challenge.

La Chatre's men made room for this little cavalcade to pass to the inn. The maid looked at
them disdainfully, but the lady glanced neither to right nor left. Having ridden up close to
the inn, they dismounted and entered, thus passing out of our sight.

I would fain have again looked down into the kitchen, now that these attractive guests had
arrived to disturb the governor's confidential talk, but the inn-maid had closed our chamber
door tight, and I might have attracted the governor's attention by opening it. Moreover, I
could not long cherish the idea of watching, unobserved, the movements of a lady. So, for some
time, Blaise and I confined our attention to the dinner, Blaise frequently casting a glance
at the door as if he would have liked to go down-stairs and make a closer inspection of the
pretty face of the maid.

Several times we heard voices, now that of a lady, now that of the governor, as if the two
were conversing together, but the words spoken were not distinguishable. It did not please
me to think that the lady might have come hither to join the governor.

At last the noise of La Chatre's men remounting told us that the governor had rejoined them
from the inn. Looking out of the window, we saw him at their head, a splendid, commanding figure.
Montignac, studious-looking, despite the horse beneath him, was beside the governor. I noticed
that the secretary sat a horse as well as any of the soldiers did. I observed, too, and with
pleasure, that the lady was not with them; therefore, she was still in the inn. I was glad
to infer that her acquaintance with La Chatre was but casual, and that her meeting with him
at the inn had been by chance.

The governor jerked his rein, and the troop moved off, northward, bound I knew not whither,
the weapons and harness shining in the sunlight. I turned to Blaise with a smile of triumph.

"And now what of your croakings?" I asked. "As if the safest place in all France for us was
not within sound of M. de la Chatre's voice, where he would never suppose us to be! It did
not even occur to him to ask what guests were in the upper chamber! What would he have given
to know that La Tour noire sat drinking under the same roof with him! Instead of coming to
disaster, we have heard his plans, and are thus put on our guard. More of your evil forebodings,
my amiable Blaise! They mean good."

But Blaise looked none the less gloomy. "There is yet time for evil to come of this journey,
my captain," he said gravely.

I now made haste to finish my meal, that I might go down into the kitchen ere the lady in the
brown robe should depart.

Presently, Blaise, glancing out of the window, exclaimed, "The devil! We are not yet rid of
our friends! There is one of them, at least!"

I looked out and saw two mounted gentlemen, one of whom was Montignac, the governor's secretary,
who had ridden back. The other, with whom he was talking in low tones, and with an air of authority,
was a man of my own age, dressed in the shabby remains of rich clothes. His face showed the
marks of dissipation, and had a cynical, daredevil look. Now and then a sarcastic smile broke
suddenly over the handsome and once noble features.

"I have seen that man, somewhere, before," said I to Blaise.

While I stood searching my memory, and the man sat talking to Montignac, both having stopped
their horses in front of the inn, there tramped up, from the South, four other travellers,
all of a kind very commonly seen on the highways, in those days of frequent war. They were
ragged soldiers of fortune, out at elbows, red of cheek and nose, all having the same look
of brow-beating defiance, ready to turn, in a moment, into abject servility. The foremost of
these was a big burly fellow with a black beard, and a fierce scowl.

As he came up towards the gentleman with whom Montignac was talking, there suddenly came on
me a sense of having once, in the dim past, been in strangely similar circumstances to those
in which I was now. Once, long ago, had I not looked out in danger from a place of concealment
upon a meeting of those two men before an inn?

The burly rascal saluted the mounted gentleman, saying, in a coarse, strident voice:

"At your service, M. le Vicomte de Berquin."

"Know your place, Barbemouche!" was the quick reply. "I am talking with a gentleman."

Then I remembered the morning after my flight from Paris, seven years before. Montignac's reckless-looking
companion had been the gay gentleman going north, at whom I had looked from an inn shed. The
other was the man who had afterwards chased me southward at the behest of the Duke of Guise.
But he no longer wore on his hat the white cross of Lorraine, and the Vicomte de Berquin's
apparel was no longer gay and spotless. The two had doubtless fallen on hard ways. Both showed
the marks of reverses and hard drinking. Barbemouche's sword was, manifestly, no longer in
the pay of the Duke of Guise, but was ready to serve the first bidder.

Barbemouche shrugged his shoulders at De Berquin's reproof, and led his three sorry-looking
companions to a bench in front of the inn, where they searched their pockets for coin before
venturing to cross the threshold.

Montignac now pointed to the inn, spoke a few last earnest words to Berquin, handed the latter
a few gold pieces, cast at him a threatening look at parting, and galloped off to rejoin M.
de la Chatre, whose cavalcade was now out of our sight. De Berquin gave him an ironical bow,
kissed the gold pieces before pocketing them, dismounted, and entered the inn, replying only
with a laugh to the supplicating looks of the moneyless Barbemouche and his hungry-looking
comrades on the bench.

"Now I wonder what in the devil's name the governor's secretary was saying to that man?" growled
Blaise Tripault.

For reply, I gave a look which reflected the surmise that I saw in Blaise's own eyes.

"Well," I said, "if it be that, the Vicomte de Berquin will be a vastly ingenious gentleman
if he can either find our hiding-place, or delude me away from my men. To think that they should
have chosen the first mercenary wretch they met on their way! Yet doubtless the perspicacious
Montignac knows his man."

"The secretary pointed to this inn as if he were telling him that you were here," observed
Blaise, meditatively.

"But inasmuch as the secretary does not know that I am here," said I, "his pointing to the
inn could not have accompanied that information. He was doubtless advising his friend to begin
his enterprise with a hearty meal, which was very good advice. And now, as this Vicomte de
Berquin does not know me by sight, let us go down and make his acquaintance. Remember that
you are the master, and make a better pretence of it than you have usually made."

"I pretend the master no worse than you pretend the servant," muttered Blaise, while I opened
the door of our chamber. A moment later we were descending the stairs leading to the kitchen.

An unexpected sight met our eyes. M. de Berquin stood with his back to a rear door, his arms
extended, as if to prevent the departure of the lady, who stood facing him, in the attitude
of shrinking back from him. She still wore her mask. Beside her stood her maid, who darted
looks of indignation at the smiling De Berquin. These three were the only ones in the kitchen.

"I do not know you, monsieur!" the lady was saying, in a low voice of great beauty.

"Death of my life! But you shall know me, mademoiselle," replied De Berquin, who had not noticed
the entrance of myself and Blaise; "for I intend to guard you from harm on the rest of your
journey, whether you will or not!"

Blaise shot at me a glance of interrogation. To keep up our assumed characters, it was for
him, not me, to interfere in behalf of this lady; yet he dared not act without secret direction
from me. But I forgot our pretence and hastened forward, my hand on my sword-hilt.

"I fear monsieur is annoying mademoiselle," I said, gently, assuming that De Berquin had been
correct in addressing her as mademoiselle.

Startled at the voice of a newcomer, the three turned and looked at me in surprise. Blaise,
at a loss as to what he ought to do, remained in the background.

"But," I added, "monsieur will not do so again for the present."

De Berquin took me in at a glance, and, deceived by my dress, said carelessly, "Go to the devil!"
Then, turning from me to Blaise, as one turns from an inferior to an equal, he remarked:

"You have a most impudent servant, monsieur!"

Blaise, embarrassed by the situation, and conscious that the curious eyes of the lady and the
maid were upon him, could only shrug his shoulders in reply. The maid, whom he had so much
admired, turned to her mistress with a look of astonishment at his seeming indifference. Seeing
this, Blaise became very red in the face.

It was I who answered De Berquin, and with the words:

"And your servant, if you have one, has a most impudent master."

De Berquin turned pale with rage at the insulting allusion to his somewhat indigent appearance.

"Your master shall answer for your impertinence!" he cried, drawing his sword and making for
Blaise.

In an instant my own sword was out, and I was barring his way.

"Let us argue the matter, monsieur!" said I.

"Peste!" he hissed. "I fight not lackeys!"

"You will fight me," I said, "or leave the presence of this lady at once!"

Impelled by uncontrollable wrath, he thrust at me furiously. With a timely twist, I sent his
sword flying from his hand to the door. I motioned him to follow it.

Completely astonished, he obeyed my gesture, went and picked up his sword, opened the door,
and then turned to Blaise and spoke these words, in a voice that trembled with rage:

"Monsieur, since you let your menial handle your sword for you, I cannot hope for satisfaction.
But though I am no great prophet, I can predict that both you and your cur shall yet feel the
foot of my lackey on your necks. And, mademoiselle," he added, removing his look to the lady,
"this is not the end of it with you!"

With which parting threats, he strode out of the inn, closing the door after him.

Blaise, deprived by his false position of the power of speech, stood with frowning brow and
puffed-out cheeks, nervously clutching at his sword-hilt. The lady and her maid looked at him
with curiosity, as if a gentleman who would stand idly and speechlessly by, while his servant
resented an insult to a lady, was a strange being, to be viewed with wonder.

"Mademoiselle," said I, laying my sword on a table, "heaven is kind to me in having led me
where I might have the joy of serving you."

The lady, whose musical voice had the sound of sadness in it, answered with the graciousness
warranted by the occasion:

"My good man, your sword lifts you above your degree, even," and here she glanced at Blaise,
and continued in a tone of irrepressible contempt, "as the tameness of some gentlemen lowers
them beneath theirs."

Blaise, from whose nature tameness was the attribute farthest removed, looked first at the
lady, in helpless bewilderment, then at me, with mute reproach for having placed him in his
ridiculous position, and lastly at the maid, who regarded him with open derision. To be laughed
at by this piquant creature, to whose charms he had been so speedily susceptible, was the crowning
misery. His expression of woe was such that I could not easily retain my own serious and respectful
countenance.

Having to make some answer to the lady, I said:

"An opportunity to defend so fair a lady would elevate the most ignoble."

The lady, not being accustomed to exchanging compliments with a man-servant, went to her maid
and talked with her in whispers, the two both gazing at Blaise with expressions of mirth.

Blaise strode to my side with an awkwardness quite new to him. His face was in a violent perspiration.

"The devil!" he whispered. "How they laugh at me! Won't you explain?"

"Impossible!"

"I object to being taken for a calf," said Blaise, ready to burst with anger. Then, suddenly
reaching the limit of his endurance, he faced the lady and blurted out:

"Mademoiselle, I would have run your pursuer through quickly enough, but I dared not rob my
master--"

I coughed a warning against his betraying us. He hesitated, then despairingly added, in a voice
of resignation:

"--my master, the King, of a single stroke of this sword, which I have devoted entirely to
his service."

"I do not doubt," said the lady, with cold irony, "that your sword is active enough when drawn
in the service of your King."

"My King," replied Blaise with dignity, "had the goodness to make a somewhat similar remark
when he took Cahors!"

"Cahors?" repeated the lady in a tone of perplexity. "But the King never took Cahors!"

"The King of France,--no!" cried Blaise; "but the King of Navarre did!"

"Blaise!" I cried, in angry reproof at his imprudence.

The tone in which I spoke had so startled the lady that she dropped her mask, and I saw the
sweetest face that ever gladdened the eyes of a man. It was the face of a girl naturally of
a cheerful nature, but newly made acquainted with sorrow. Grief had not rendered the nature,
or the face, unresponsive to transient impressions of a pleasant or mirthful kind. Hers was
one of those hearts in which grief does not exclude all possibility of gaiety. Sorrow might
lie at the bottom, never forgotten and never entirely concealed, but merriment might ripple
on the surface. As for its outlines, the face, in every part, harmonized with the grace and
purity of the chin and mouth. Her eyes were blue and large, with an eloquence displayed without
intent or consciousness.

"What does it mean?" she said, in a charming bewilderment. "The servant reproves the master.
Ah! I see! The servant is the master."

And she smiled with pleasure at her discovery.

"But still your servant, mademoiselle," was all that I could say.

Blaise vented a great breath of relief. "I feel better now," he said, heartily, and he turned
with a beaming countenance to the maid, who looked at his stalwart form and promptly revised
her opinion of him. The two were soon in conversation together, at the fireplace, and I was
left to complete explanations with the lady, who did not attempt the coquetry of replacing
her mask.

"Our secret is yours, mademoiselle, and our safety is in your hands."

"Your secret is safe, monsieur," she said, modestly averting her eyes from my frankly admiring
look. "And now I understand why it was you who drew sword."

"A privilege too precious to be resigned," I answered in a low tone, "even for the sake of
my secret and my safety."

My words were spoken so tenderly that she sought relief from her charming embarrassment by
taking up my sword from the table, and saying, with a smile:

"I have you in my power, monsieur, follower of the King of Navarre! What if I were minded,
on behalf of the governor of this province, to make you a prisoner?"

"My faith!" I could only reply, "you need no sword to make prisoners of men."

"You hope to purchase your freedom with a compliment," she said, continuing the jest; "but
you cannot close my eyes with flattery."

"It would be a crime beyond me to close eyes so beautiful!"

She gave a pretty little smile and shrug of helplessness, as if to say, "I cannot help it,
monsieur, if you will overwhelm me with compliments which are not deserved, I am powerless
to prevent you." But the compliments were all the more deserved because she seemed to think
them not so.

Her modesty weakened my own audacity, and her innocent eyes put me into a kind of confusion.
So I changed the subject.

"It appears to me, mademoiselle," I said, "that I have had the honor of ridding you of unpleasant
company."

Her face quickly clouded, as if my words had brought to her mind a greater trouble than the
mere importunities of an insolent adventurer.

"De Berquin!" she said, and then heaved a deep sigh; "I had forgotten about him."

"I would not commit his offence of thrusting unwelcome company on you," I replied; "but I would
gladly offer you for a few leagues the sword that has already put him to flight."

She was for some time silent. Then she answered slowly in a low voice, "I ride towards Clochonne,
monsieur."

Taking this for an acceptance of my offer, I sheathed my sword, and replied with an animation
that betrayed my pleasure:

"And I towards the same place, mademoiselle. When you choose to set out, I am ready."

"I am ready now, monsieur--," she said, lingering over the word "monsieur," as if trying to
recall whether or not I had told her my name.

It was no time at which to disclose the title under which I was known throughout the province
as one especially proscribed, and yet I was unwilling to pass under a false name. Therefore,
I said:

"I am M. de Launay, once of Anjou, but now of nowhere in particular. The great have caused
my chateau to be scattered over my lands, stone by stone, and have otherwise encouraged my
taste for travel and adventure."

At this moment, glancing towards Blaise, I saw on his face a look of alarm and disapproval,
as if he feared that the lady or her maid might be aware that De Launay and La Tournoire were
one man, but it was manifest from their faces that he had no cause for such an apprehension.

The lady smiled at my description, and adjusting her gloves, replied:

"And I am Mlle. de Varion, daughter of a gentleman of Fleurier--"

"What!" I interrupted, "the Catholic gentleman who has been imprisoned for sheltering a Huguenot?"

"Yes," she answered, sorrowfully, and then with a strange trepidation she went on: "and it
is to save myself from imprisonment that I have determined to flee to the south, in the hope
of finding refuge in one of the provinces controlled by your King of Navarre."

"But," I interposed, "how can you be in danger of imprisonment? It was not you, but your father,
who violated the edict."

"Nevertheless," she answered, in a low and unsteady voice, averting her glance to the floor,
"M. de la Chatre, the governor of the province, has threatened me with imprisonment if I remain
in Berry."

"Doubtless," I said with indignation, "the governor does this in order to escape the importunities
you would make in your father's behalf. He would save his tender heart from the pain of being
touched by your pleadings."

"It may be so," she answered faintly.

I did not tell her that the idea of releasing her father had already entered my head. In order
to bring him safe out of the Chateau of Fleurier, it would be necessary for me to return to
Maury for my company. The attempt would be a hazardous one, and I might fail, and I did not
wish to raise hopes in her for disappointment. She should not learn of my intention until after
its fulfillment. In the meantime, less because I thought she would really undergo danger by
remaining at Fleurier, than because I was loth to lose the new-found happiness that her presence
gave me, I would conduct her to Maury, on the pretext of its being the best place whence to
make, at a convenient time, a safe flight to Guienne.

Having summoned the landlord and paid him, I waited for Mlle. de Varion to precede me out of
the door. There was a moment's delay while her maid sought the riding whip which mademoiselle
had laid down on one of the tables. At this moment, there came to me the idea of a jest which
would furnish me with amusement on the road southward, and afford mademoiselle an interesting
surprise on her arrival at Maury.

"It occurs to me, mademoiselle," said I, "that you will be glad to have some guidance across
the border. Let me recommend to you one, whose services I think I can assure you, and whom
we may fall in with in the vicinity of Clochonne,--the Sieur de la Tournoire."

Mademoiselle turned white, and stared at me with a look of terror on her face.

"Decidedly," I thought, "as the mere mention of my name produces such an effect on her, it
is well that I am not going to introduce myself until she shall have learned that I am not
such a terrible cutthroat as the Catholics in this province think me." And I said aloud:

"Fear not, mademoiselle. He is not as bad as his enemies represent him."

"I shall be glad to have his guidance," she said, still pale.

We left the inn and took horse, being joined, outside, by mademoiselle's two serving-boys.
Resuming his character of gentleman, Blaise rode ahead with the lady, while I followed at the
side of the maid, he casting many an envious glance at the place I occupied, and I reciprocating
his feelings if not his looks. Nevertheless, I was sufficiently near mademoiselle to be able
to exchange speeches with her. The day was at its best. The sun shone; a gentle breeze played
with the red and yellow leaves in the roadway, and I was happy.

Looking down a byway as we passed, I saw, at some distance, M. de Berquin talking to Barbemouche,
while the latter's three scurvy-looking companions stood by, as if awaiting the outcome of
the conversation between the two.

"Oho, M. de Berquin!" I said to myself, with an inward laugh; "I do not know whether you are
bargaining for help to persecute Mlle. de Varion, or to spy on the Sieur de la Tournoire; but
it has come to pass that you can do both at the same time."

CHAPTER IX.

THE FOUR RASCALS

We rode southward at an easy pace, that mademoiselle might not be made to suffer from fatigue.
Aside from the desirability of our reaching safe territory, there was no reason for great haste.
M. de Varion had not yet been tried, and the attempt to deliver him from prison need not be
made immediately. Time would be required in which I might form a satisfactory plan of action
in this matter. It would be necessary to employ all my men in it, and to bring them secretly
from Maury by night marches, but I must not take the first step until the whole design should
be complete in my mind.

I suggested to mademoiselle that we first go to her father's house, in Fleurier, where she
might get such of her belongings as she wished to take with her. But she desired to take no
more along than was already in the portmanteaus that her boys, Hugo and Pierre, carried with
them on their horses. She had come directly from Bourges with this baggage, having been visiting
an unmarried aunt, in that city, when news of her father's arrest reached her.

When I questioned her as to her conduct on the reception of that news, her face clouded, and
she showed embarrassment and a wish to avoid the subject. Nevertheless, she gave me answers,
and I finally learned that her purpose on leaving Bourges had been to seek the governor of
the province, immediately, and petition for her father's release. It was by accident that she
had met M. de la Chatre at the inn, where she had stopped that her horses might be baited.
My persistent, though deferential, inquiries elicited from her, in a wavering voice, that she
had not previously possessed the governor's acquaintance; that her entreaties had evoked only
the governor's wrathful orders to depart from the province on pain of sharing her father's
fate; and that La Chatre had refused to allow her even to see her father in his dungeon in
the Chateau of Fleurier.

Her agitation as she disclosed these things to me became so great that I presently desisted
from pursuing the subject, and sought to restore brightness to the face of one whose tenderness
and youth made her misfortune ineffably touching.

I found that, with a woman's intelligence, she had a child's ingenuousness. I had no difficulty
in leading her to talk about herself. Artlessly she communicated to me the salient facts of
her life. Her father, the younger son of a noble family, had passed his days in study on his
little portion of land near Fleurier. Like myself, she had when very young become motherless.
As for her education, her unmarried aunt had taught her those accomplishments which a woman
can best impart, while her father had instructed her concerning the ancients, the arts, and
the sciences. She had been to Paris but once, and knew nothing of the court.

Most of my conversation with mademoiselle was had while we traversed a deserted stretch of
road, where I could, with safety, ride by her side and allow Blaise to take my place with the
maid, Jeannotte. I could infer how deeply the good fellow had been smitten with the petite
damsel by the means which he took to impress her in return. Far from showing himself as the
wounded, sighing lover, he swelled to large dimensions, assumed his most martial frown, and
carried himself as a most formidable personage. He boasted sonorously of his achievements in
battle.

"And the scar on your forehead," I heard her say, as she inspected his visage with a coquettish
side glance; "at what battle did you get that?"

His reply was uttered in a voice whose rancorous fierceness must have set the maid trembling.

"In the battle of the Rue Etienne," he said, "which was fought between myself and a hell-born
Papist, on St. Bartholomew's night, in 1572. From the next house-roof, I had seen Coligny's
body thrown, bleeding, from his own window into his courtyard, for I was one of those who were
with him when his murderers came, and whom he ordered to flee. I ran from roof to roof, hoping
to reach a house where a number of Huguenots were, that I might lead them back to avenge the
admiral's murder. I dropped to the street and ran around a corner straight into the arms of
one of the butchers employed by the Duke of Guise that night to decorate the streets of Paris
with the best blood in France. Seeing that I did not wear the white cross on my arm, he was
good enough to give me this red mark on my forehead. But in those days I was quick at repartee,
and I gave him a similar mark on a similar place. Then I was knocked down from behind, and
when I awoke it was the next day. The dogs had thought me dead. As for the man who gave me
this mark, I have not seen him since, but for thirteen years I have prayed hard to the bountiful
Father in Heaven to bring us together again some day, and the good God in His infinite kindness
will surely do so!"

Now and then mademoiselle turned in her saddle to look behind. It was when she did this for
the ninth or tenth time that she gave a start, and her lips parted with a half-uttered ejaculation
of alarm. I followed her look and saw five mounted figures far behind us, on the road. It was
most probable that these were De Berquin, Barbemouche, and the latter's three ragged comrades.
But in this sight I found no reason to be disturbed. If mademoiselle was the object of De Berquin's
quest, I felt that our party was sufficiently strong to protect her. If he had abandoned the
intention of annoying her with further importunities, and was merely proceeding to Clochonne
in order to act as the governor's spy against me, there could be no immediate danger in his
presence, for he did not suspect that I was the Sieur de la Tournoire.

"Be assured, mademoiselle," I said, "you have nothing whatever to fear from M. de Berquin."

"I do not fear for myself," she replied, with a pathetic little smile. "It cannot be possible
that, having seen me only once, he should put himself to so much trouble merely to inflict
his attentions on me."

"Then you never saw him before the meeting at the inn to-day?" I asked, in surprise.

"Never. When he addressed me and introduced himself, I was surprised that he should already
know my name."

I then recalled that the governor's secretary, Montignac, at one time, during his talk with
De Berquin outside our window, had pointed towards the inn. Was it, then, of Mlle. de Varion
that he had been talking? Montignac, of course, having witnessed the interview between mademoiselle
and the governor, had learned her name. It must have been he who had communicated it to De
Berquin. Had the subtle secretary entrusted the unscrupulous cavalier with some commission
relative to mademoiselle, as well as with the task of betraying me? It was in vain that I tried
to find satisfactory answers to these questions.

I asked mademoiselle whether she had ever known Montignac before this day.

"Never," she answered, with a kind of shudder, which seemed to express both abhorrence and
fear. Again she grew reticent; again the shadow and the look of confusion appeared on her face.
I could make nothing of these signs. To attempt a solution by interrogating her was only to
cause her pain, and rather than do that I preferred to remain mystified.

Once more mademoiselle cast an uneasy look at the riders in the distance rearward.

"Ah!" said I, with a smile, "you have no fear for yourself, yet you continue to look back with
an expression that very nearly resembles that of fright."

"I do not fear for myself," she said, quite artlessly; "it is for you that I fear. M. de Berquin
will surely try to revenge himself for the humiliation you gave him."

A joyous thrill sent the blood to my cheeks. Without disguising my feelings, I turned and looked
at her. Doubtless the gladness that shone in my eyes told her what was in my heart. Realizing
that her frank and gentle demonstration of solicitude was a confession to be received with
ineffable delight by the man to whom it was tendered, she dropped her eyes and a deep blush
overspread her face. For some time no word passed between us; enough had been said. I knew
that the look in my eyes had told more, a thousand times, than all the extravagant compliments
with which I had, half banteringly, deluged her at the inn.

We might, by hard riding, have reached Maury on the night of that day, but mademoiselle's comfort
was to be considered, and, moreover, I desired to throw De Berquin off our track before going
to our hiding-place. Therefore, when Clochonne was yet some leagues before us, we turned into
a by-way, and stopped at an obscure inn at the end of a small village. This hostelry was a
mere hut, consisting of a kitchen and one other apartment, and was kept by an old couple as
stupid and avaricious as any of their class. The whole place, such as it was, was at our disposal.
The one private room was given over to mademoiselle and Jeannotte for the night, it being decided
that I and Blaise should share the kitchen with the inn-keeper and his wife, while the two
boys should sleep in an outer shed with the horses.

Roused from sluggishness by the sight of a gold piece, which Blaise displayed, the old couple
succeeded in getting for us a passable supper, which we had served to us on the end of an old
wine-butt outside the inn, as the kitchen was intolerably smoky.

"A poor place, mademoiselle," said I, ashamed of having conducted so delicate a creature to
this miserable hovel.

"What would you have?" she replied, with a pretty attempt to cover her dejection by a show
of cheerfulness. "One cannot flee, for one's liberty, through the forest, and live in a chateau
at the same time."

As for the others, hunger and fatigue made any fare and shelter welcome. Blaise, in particular,
found the wine acceptable. Conscious of the glances of Jeannotte, now flashing, now demure,
he strove to outdo himself in one of his happiest accomplishments, that of drinking. The two
boys, Hugo and Pierre, emulated his achievements, and only the presence of mademoiselle deterred
our party from becoming a noisy one.

Blaise became more and more exuberant as he made the wine flow the more generously. Seeing
a way of diverting mademoiselle from her sad thoughts, I set him to telling of the things he
had done in battle when controlled by the sanguinary spirit of his father. He had a manner
of narrating these deeds of slaughter, which took all the horror out of them, and made them
rather comical than of any other description. He soon had mademoiselle smiling, the maid laughing,
and the two boys looking on him with open-eyed admiration. Finding Jeannotte and the boys so
well entertained, mademoiselle allowed them to remain with Blaise when she retired to her room.

I followed her to the inn door, and bade her rest without fear, assuring her that I would die
ere the least harm should befall her.

"Nay," she answered smiling, "I would endure much harm rather than buy security at such a price."

For an instant her smooth and delicate fingers lay in mine. Then they were swiftly withdrawn,
and she passed in, while I stood outside to muse, in the gathering dusk, upon the great change
that had come over the world since my first meeting with her, six hours before. The very stars
and sky seemed to smile upon me; the moonlight seemed to shine for me consciously with a greater
softness; the very smell of the earth and grass and trees had grown sweeter to me. I thought
how barren, though I had not known it, the world had been before this transformation, and how
unendurable to me would be a return of that barrenness.

I rejoined the now somewhat boisterous party at the wine-butt in time to catch Blaise making
an attempt to kiss Jeannotte, who was maintaining a fair pretence of resistance. She seemed
rather displeased at my return, for as Blaise, unabashedly, continued his efforts, she was
compelled, in order to make her coyness seem real to me, to break from him, and flee into the inn.

Blaise, in whom the spirit of his father was now manifestly gaming the ascendancy, consoled
himself for the absence of Jeannotte by drinking more heroically and betaking to song. The
boys labored assiduously to keep him company. Finally the stalwart fellow, Hugo, succumbed
to the effects of the wine, and staggered off to the shed. Pierre followed him a few minutes
later, and Blaise was left alone with the remains of the wine. The landlord and his wife had
retired to rest, on their pallets on the kitchen floor, some time before. Blaise sat on a log,
singing to himself and cursing imaginary enemies, until all the wine at hand was exhausted.
Then he let me lead him into the kitchen, where he immediately dropped to the floor, rolled
over on his back, and began snoring with the vigor that characterized all his vocal manifestations.

Making a pillow of my cloak, I lay down beside him, and tried to sleep; but the stale air of
the kitchen, the new thoughts to which my mind clung with delight, the puzzling questions that
sought to displace those thoughts, and the tremendous snoring of both the landlord and his
wife, as well as of Blaise, made slumber impossible to me. I therefore rose, and went out of
the inn. At a short distance away was a smooth, grassy knoll, now bathed in moonlight. I decided
to make this my couch. I had proceeded only a few steps from the inn when the silence of the
early night was disturbed by the sound of footsteps on the crisp, fallen leaves in the woods
close at hand.

The smallness of the village and the obscurity of the locality gave importance to every sound,
proceeding from a human source, at this hour. I, therefore, dropped behind the thick stump
of a tree, where I might see and hear without being observed. Presently a figure emerged from
the edge of the wood and moved cautiously towards the inn. It stopped, made a gesture towards
the wood, and then continued its course. Three more figures then came out of the wood, one
very tall, one exceedingly broad, and the third extremely thin. They came on with great caution,
and finally joined the first comer near the inn. By this time I had recognized the leader as
my old friend, Barbemouche. The others were his companions.

I awaited their further proceedings with curiosity. Was it in quest of us, at the behest of
De Berquin, that they had come hither so cautiously and without their horses? Very probably.
Doubtless, from afar, they had seen us turn into the byway which, as one or more of them perhaps
knew, led to this inn and to no other. It was not likely that, having certainly made some bargain
with De Berquin, and being moneyless, they had quitted his service so soon. Yet, if they were
now carrying out orders of his against mademoiselle or against me, the supposed lackey who
had incurred his wrath, why was he not with them? I hoped soon to see these questions answered
by the doings of the rascals themselves.

The fat ruffian sank down, with a heavy sigh of relief, on the log where Blaise had sat. He
pulled down with him the thin fellow, who had been clutching his arm as if for support. The
latter had a wavy, yellow beard, a feminine manner, and a dandified air, as if he might once
have been a fop at the court before descending to the rags which now covered him. The fat hireling
had a face on which both good nature and pugnacity were depicted. At present he was puffing
from his exertions afoot. The most striking figure of the group was that of the tall rascal.
He was gaunt, angular and erect, throwing out his chest, and wearing a solemn and meditative
mien upon his weather-beaten face. This visage, long enough in its frame-work, was further
extended by a great, pointed beard. There was something of grandeur about this cadaverous,
frowning, Spanish-looking wreck of a warrior, as he stood thoughtfully leaning upon a huge
two-handed sword, which he had doubtless obtained in the pillage of some old armory.

"The place seems closed as tight as the gates of Heaven to a heretic," growled Barbemouche,
scrutinizing the inn.

The tall fellow here awoke from his reverie, and spoke in solemn, deliberate tones:

"Would it not be well to wake up the landlord and try his wine?"

"Wake up the devil!" cried Barbemouche angrily. "Nobody is to be waked up. We are simply to
find out whether they are here, and then go back to the Captain. Your unquenchable thirst will
take you to hell before your time, Francois."

"It is astonishing," put in the fat fellow, looking at the tall, lean Francois, "how so few
gallons of body can hold so many gallons of wine."

"Would I had your body to fill with wine, Antoine," said Francois, longingly; and then, casting
an unhappy look at the inn, he added, "and the wine to fill it with."

"What are you shaking for, Jacques?" asked fat Antoine of his slim comrade at his side. "One
would think you were afraid. Haven't you told us that love of fighting was the one passion
of your life?"

"Death of the devil, so it is!" replied Jacques in a soft voice, and with a lisp worthy of
one of the King's painted minions. "That is what annoys me, for if this insignificant matter
should come to a fight, and I should accidentally be killed in so obscure an affair, how could
I ever again indulge my passion for fighting?"

Meanwhile, Barbemouche had gone to the door and cautiously opened it, no one having barred
it after my departure from the kitchen. I could hear the sound of Blaise's superb snoring,
mingled with the less resonant efforts of the old couple. Barbemouche surveyed as much of the
kitchen as the moonlight disclosed to him. Then he quietly shut the door and turned to his fellows.

"It is well," he said. "The gentleman himself is snoring his lungs away just inside the door.
There is another room, and it is there that the women must be. The others are probably in the
shed. Let us go quietly, as it would not be polite to disturb their sleep."

Whereupon Barbemouche led the way back to the woods, followed by fat Antoine, who toiled puffingly,
Jacques, who stepped daintily and seemed fearful of treading on stones and briars, and last
of all Francois, who moved at a measured pace, with long strides, retaining his air of profound
meditation. The sound of the crushing of leaves beneath their feet became more distant, and
finally died out entirely.

In vain I asked myself the meaning of this strange investigation. Manifestly the present object
of De Berquin was nothing more than to keep himself informed of our whereabouts. But why had
he sent all four of his henchmen to find out whether we were at this inn, when one would have
sufficed? I abandoned the attempt to deduce what his exact intentions were. Drowsiness now
coming over me, and the night air having grown colder, I repaired to the shed for the purpose
of obtaining there the repose that had been denied me in the kitchen. I was satisfied in mind
that whatever blow De Berquin intended to strike for the possession of mademoiselle, or for
revenge upon myself, would be attempted at a time and place more convenient to him. Knowing
that my slumbers invariably yielded to any unusual noise, I allowed myself to fall asleep on
a pile of straw in the shed.

I know not how long I had slept, when I suddenly awoke with a start and sat upright. What noise
had invaded my sleep, I could not, at that moment, tell. The place was then perfectly quiet,
save for the regular breathing of the two boys, and an occasional movement of one of the horses.
The shed was still entirely dark, excepting where a thin slice of moonlight entered at a crack.
I sat still, listening.

Presently a low sound struck my ear, something between a growl and a groan. I quickly arose,
left the shed, and ran to a clump of bushes at the side of the inn, whence the sound proceeded.
Separating the bushes I saw, lying prone on the ground among them, the stalwart body of Blaise.

"What is the matter?" I cried. "Speak! Are you wounded?"

The only reply was a kind of muffled roar. Looking closer, I saw that Blaise's mouth and head
were tightly bound by the detached sleeve of a doublet, and this had deterred him from articulating.
I saw, also, that his legs had been tied together, and his hands fastened behind him with a rope.

I rapidly released his legs, and he stood up. Then I undid his hands, and he stretched out
his arms with relief. Finally I unbound his mouth and he spoke:

"Oh, the whelps of hell! To fall on a man when he is sleeping off his wine, and tie him up
like a trussed fowl! I will have the blood of every cursed knave of them! And the maid! Grandmother
of the devil! They have taken the maid! Come, monsieur, let us cut them into pieces, and save
the maid!"

But I held him back, and cried: "And mademoiselle, what of her? Speak, you drunken dog! Have
you let her be harmed?"

"She is perfectly safe," he answered, in his turn holding me back from rushing to the inn.
"I do not think that she was even awakened. What use to let her know what has happened? If
we rescue the maid and the maid will hold her tongue, mademoiselle will never know what danger
she has escaped."

"Or what vigilant protectors she has had to guard her sleep," I said, with bitter self-reproach,
no longer daring to blame Blaise for a laxity of which I had been equally guilty. "You are
right," I went on, "she must know nothing. Now tell me at once exactly what has occurred."

Blaise would rather have looked for his sword, and started off immediately to the rescue of
the maid, but I made him stand with me in the shadow of the inn and relate.

"From the time when I fell asleep on the kitchen floor," he said, "I knew nothing until a little
while ago, when I awoke, and found myself still where I had lain down, but tied up as you found
me yonder. Four curs of hell were lifting me to carry me out. I tried to strike, but the deep
sleep, induced by that cursed wine, had allowed them to tie me up as neatly as if I had been
a dead deer. Neither could I speak, though I tried hard enough to curse, you may be sure. So
they brought me out, and laid me down there by the inn-door. 'Would it not be best to stick
a sword into him?' said one of the rascals, a soft speaking, womanish pup. A hungry-looking
giant put the point of an old two-handed sword at my breast, as if to carry out the suggestion;
but a heavy, black-bearded scoundrel, whose voice I think I have heard before, pushed the sword
away and said: 'No, the captain has a quarrel to adjust with him in person. We are to concern
ourselves entirely with the lady. Lay him yonder.' So they carried me over to the bushes. 'And
now for the others,' said the giant. 'Why lose time over them?' said the burly fellow, who
seemed to be the leader; 'they are sleeping like pigs in the shed. Come! We can do the business
without waking them up,'

"So they left me lying on the ground and went into the inn again, very quietly. They must have
gone, without waking the landlord or his wife, into the room of mademoiselle and her maid.
Presently they came out again, carrying the maid. When they had gone about half way to the
woods, they stopped and set her on her feet. So far, I suppose, it was the wine that kept her
asleep; but now she awoke, and I could see her looking around, very scared, from one to the
other of the four rascals. Then she gave a scream. At that instant, there came rushing from
the woods, with his sword drawn, your friend, the Vicomte de Berquin. 'Stand off, rascals!'
he shouted, as he ran up to them. They drew their weapons, and made a weak pretense of resisting
him; then, when each one had exchanged a thrust with him, they all turned tail, and made off
into the woods.

"M. de Berquin now turned to the maid, who had fallen to her knees in fright. Taking her hand,
he said, 'Mademoiselle, I thank Heaven I arrived in time to give you the aid your own escort
failed to afford. Perhaps now you will be the less unwilling to accept my protection!'--the
maid now looked up at him, and he got a good view of her face. He started back as if hell had
opened before him, threw her hand from his, turned towards the woods, and shouted to the four
rascals, 'You whelps of the devil, you have made a mistake and brought the maid!' He was about
to follow them, when it probably occurred to him that if left free the maid would disclose
his little project; for he stood thinking a moment, then grasped the frightened maid by the
wrist, and ran off into the woods, dragging her after him. All this I saw through an opening
in the bushes while I lay helpless and speechless. By industriously working my jaw, I at last
succeeded in making my mouth sufficiently free to produce the sounds which brought you to me.
Now, monsieur, let us hasten after the maid, for mademoiselle will be vastly annoyed to lose
her precious Jeannotte."

I saw that Blaise knew with what argument I was quickest to be moved.

"Blaise," I said, "do not pretend that it is only for mademoiselle's sake that you are concerned.
In your anxiety about the maid, you forget the danger in which mademoiselle still lies, and
which requires me to remain here. When the ingenious De Berquin learns, from his four henchmen,
that mademoiselle was not awakened, he will certainly repeat his attempt. He thinks to win
her favor by appearing to be her rescuer from these four pretended assailants, and, at the
same time, to make us seem unworthy to protect her. He does not know that she has seen the
four rascals in his company. He wishes to work with his own hand his revenge upon us, and so
he has let us live. I see the way to make him so ridiculous in the eyes of mademoiselle that
he will never dare show his face to her again."

"But the maid!" persisted Blaise.

"They will doubtless secure her somewhere in the woods, and return here to enact, with mademoiselle
herself, the sham rescue which they mistakenly carried out with the maid. Go and seek your
precious Jeannotte, if you please, but do not let them discover you. Wait until they leave
her before you try to release her."

Blaise was quick to avail himself of this conditional commission. He went with me into the
kitchen, where the old couple were sleeping as noisily as ever, and found his sword where he
had laid it before supper. The door to mademoiselle's room was ajar. Standing at the threshold,
I could hear her breathing peacefully, unaware of the peril from which, by a blunder, she had
been saved. Through the small window of the room came a bar of moonlight which lighted up her
face. It was a face pale, sad, innocent,--the face of a girl transformed, in an instant, to
womanhood by a single grief.

Leaving her door as I had found it, I went from the inn to the shed, still wearing my sword,
which I had put on in first leaving the kitchen after my futile attempt to sleep. Blaise was
already making rapidly for the woods.

I quietly awoke Hugo and Pierre, and bade them put on their weapons and remain ready to respond
to my call. I then posted myself again behind the tree stump near the inn door and awaited
occurrences.

By this time clouds had arisen, and the moonlight was frequently obscured. I had waited about
half an hour, when, again, the sound of breaking leaves and sticks warned me that living beings
were approaching through the woods. At last I made out the four figures of De Berquin's hirelings
as they cautiously paused at the edge of the open space. Apparently assured by the silence
that their presence was unsuspected, they came on to the inn. In a moment of moonlight, I perceived,
also, the figure of De Berquin, who stood at the border of the woods watching the proceedings
of his varlets. Even as I looked, he withdrew into the shadow. At the same time a heavy mass
of cloud cast darkness over the place.

But I could descry the black forms of the four rascals huddled together at the door of the
inn, which the foremost cautiously opened. A moment later they had all entered the kitchen.

I glided rapidly through the darkness after them, and took my stand just within the door, where
any one attempting to pass out must encounter me. The four rascals were now at the inner door
leading to the room of mademoiselle.

"Stand off, rascals!" I cried, assuming the tone of De Berquin. In the same moment, I gently
punctured the back of the nearest rascal with my sword.

Surprised at what they took for the premature advent of their master, the fellows turned and
stood for a moment undecided. But, by thrusting my sword among them, I enabled them to make
up their minds. They could but blindly obey their instructions, and so they came towards me
with a feeble pretense of attack. In the darkness it was impossible for them to make out my
features. I met their sham assault with much greater vigor than De Berquin had led them to
expect from him. This they might have been moved to resist, in earnest, but for the fear of
losing their pay, which De Berquin, in order to secure himself against treachery on their part,
would certainly have represented as being, not on his person, but somewhere awaiting his call.
Thus deterred from making a sufficient defence against my sword-play, and as mademoiselle,
awakened by the noise, had hastened to her door and was looking on, the four adventurers soon
considered that their pretense of battle had lasted long enough. A howl of pain from Barbemouche,
evoked by a wound in the groin, was the signal for their general flight. As I still stood in
the doorway to bar all exit there, they sought other ways of egress. The slim Jacques ran past
mademoiselle into her room and bolted through the window. Barbemouche managed to go through
the rear window of the kitchen, and the fat Antoine tried to follow him, but succeeded only
as to his head, arms, and shoulders. Squeezed tightly into the opening, he remained an irresistible
temptation to the point of my sword, and at every thrust he beat the air with his legs, and
shrieked piteously. The tall Francois, in attempting to reach this window at one stride, had
stumbled against the bodies of the terrified innkeeper and his wife, and he now labored, vainly,
to release his leg from the grasp of the old woman, who clung to it with the strength of desperation.

I took mademoiselle by the hand and led her out into the air. Here we were joined by Hugo and
Pierre, who had run around from the shed at the noise. I was just about to answer her look
of bewilderment and inquiry, when there came a loud cry:

"Stand off, rascals!"

And on rushed De Berquin from the woods, making a great flourish with his sword as he came.
In the darkness, seeing mademoiselle standing with three men, one of whom had led her rapidly
from the inn, the inventive Vicomte had taken us three for his own zealous henchmen.

And so he came, like some giant-slaying chevalier of the old days, crying again: "Stand off,
rascals!" and adding, "You hounds, release this lady!"

"Fear not for the lady; her friends are here!" I said, motioning Hugo and Pierre aside and
stepping forward with mademoiselle, my drawn sword in my right hand.

The moon reappeared, and showed De Berquin standing with open mouth, as if turned to stone.
In a moment this astonishment passed.

"Thousand devils!" he cried. "The cursed lackey!"

And he made a wrathful thrust at me, but I disarmed him now as neatly as at the inn. Thereupon,
he picked up his sword and made rapidly off to the woods. Turning towards the inn, I saw the
tall fellow and his fat comrade leaving it, the former bearing his huge sword on his shoulder.
They avoided us by a detour, and followed De Berquin. The two who had escaped by windows had,
doubtless, already reached the protection of the trees. I began to explain to mademoiselle,
and was asking myself how best to account for the absence of Jeannotte, when I saw Blaise coming
from the woods, bearing the maid in his arms. To prevent her from returning to the inn, De
Berquin had caused Barbemouche to bind her to a tree. When her captors had departed to make
a second attempt against mademoiselle, the maid had set up a moaning, and this had guided Blaise
to her side.

It was now impossible to conceal any of the night's events from mademoiselle, but she, far
from blaming our lack of vigilance, feigned to think herself indebted to us for a second rescue
from the attentions of her persecutor. During the rest of that night her slumbers were more
faithfully guarded, although they were not threatened again.

CHAPTER X.

A DISAPPEARANCE

The next morning we resumed our way southward. The weather was clear and fine, yet Mlle. de
Varion seemed more heavy at heart than she had been on the preceding day. This could not be
attributed to any apprehension of further annoyance from De Berquin, for, as her talk showed,
she believed that he would not again trouble her after his having cut so poor a figure with
his attempt at an intended rescue. But though I did not tell her, I had good reason to believe
that we were not yet done with him. The failure of his attempt with regard to mademoiselle,
whether or not that attempt had been dictated by Montignac, would not make him abandon the
more important mission concerning the Sieur de la Tournoire. Therefore, I was likely to encounter
him again, and probably nearer Maury, and, as it was my intention that mademoiselle should
remain under my protection until after my venture in behalf of her father, it was probable
that she, too, would see more of her erstwhile pursuer. I would allow events to dictate precautions
against the discovery of my hiding-place by De Berquin, against his interference with my intended
attempt to deliver M. de Varion, and against his molesting Mlle. de Varion during my absence
from her on that attempt. I might have killed De Berquin when I disarmed him on the previous
night, but I did not wish to make him, in the least, an object of mademoiselle's pity, and,
moreover, I was curious to see what means he would adopt towards hunting me down and betraying me.

Not only the dejection of Mlle. de Varion made our ride a melancholy one, despite the radiance
of the autumn morning. Blaise, repentant of his overindulgence, and still feeling the humiliation
of the easy capture made of him by four scurvy knaves, had taken refuge in one of those moods
of pious reflection which he attributed to maternal influence. Piqued at this reticence, the
maid, Jeannotte, maintained a sulky silence. The two boys, devoted to their mistress, now faithfully
reflected her sad and uneasy demeanor.

"Look, mademoiselle!" said I, glad of having found objects toward which to draw her attention,
"yonder is the Chateau of Clochonne. Beyond that, and to the right, are the mountains for which
we are bound. It is there that I shall introduce to you the Sieur de la Tournoire."

Mademoiselle looked at the distant towers and the mountains beyond with an expression of dread.
She gave a heavy sigh and shuddered in her saddle.

"Nay, mademoiselle," I said; "you have nothing to fear there."

She turned pale, and answered, in a trembling voice:

"Alas, monsieur! Am I not about to put those mountains between myself and my father?"

I thought of the joy that I should cause and the gratitude that I should win, should I succeed
in bringing her father safe to her on those mountains, but I kept the thought to myself.

We skirted Clochonne by a wide detour, fording the Creuse at a secluded place, and ascended
the wooded hills in single file. After a long and toilsome progress through pathless and deeply
shaded wilds, we reached, in the afternoon, the forest inn kept by Godeau and his wife. It
had been my intention to stop and rest here, and to send Blaise ahead to Maury, that one of
the rooms of our ruined chateau might be made fit for mademoiselle's reception. I had expected
to find the inn, as usual, without guests, but on approaching it we heard the sound of music
proceeding from a stringed instrument. We stopped at the edge of the small, cleared space before
the inn and sent Blaise to reconnoitre. He boldly entered and presently returned, followed
by the decrepit Godeau and his strapping wife, Marianne. Both gave us glad welcome, the old
man with obsequious bows which doubtless racked his rheumatic joints, the woman with bustling
cordiality.

"Be at ease, monsieur," said Marianne. "We have no one within except two gypsies, who will
make music for you and tell your fortunes. Godeau, look to the horses."

I dismounted and assisted mademoiselle to descend. Then, on the pretext of giving an order,
I took Marianne and Godeau aside, and bade them to address me as M. de Launay, not on any account
as M. de la Tournoire. The old man then saw to our horses, and Marianne brought us wine.

"Before sunset," I said to mademoiselle, as I raised my glass, "you shall meet the Sieur de
la Tournoire at his hiding-place."

