ALDEN,--dear and ancient friend--it is a solemn moment. You have now reached the age of discretion.
You have been a long time arriving. Many years ago you docked me on an article because the
subject was too old; later, you docked me on an article because the subject was too new; later
still, you docked me on an article because the subject was betwixt and between. Once, when
I wrote a Letter to Queen Victoria, you did not put it in the respectable part of the Magazine,
but interred it in that potter's field, the Editor's Drawer. As a result, she never answered
it. How often we recall, with regret, that Napoleon once shot at a magazine editor and missed
him and killed a publisher. But we remember, with charity, that his intentions were good.

You will reform, now, Alden. You will cease from these economies, and you will be discharged.
But in your retirement you will carry with you the admiration and earnest good wishes of the
oppressed and toiling scribes. This will be better than bread. Let this console you when the
bread fails.

You will carry with you another thing, too--the affection of the scribes; for they all love
you in spite of your crimes. For you bear a kind heart in your breast, and the sweet and winning
spirit that charms away all hostilities and animosities, and makes of your enemy your friend
and keeps him so. You have reigned over us thirty-six years, and, please God, you shall reign
another thirty-six--"and peace to Mahmoud on his golden throne!"

                    Always yours
                                   MARK

     A copyright bill was coming up in Washington and a delegation of
     authors went down to work for it.  Clemens was not the head of the
     delegation, but he was the most prominent member of it, as well as
     the most useful.  He invited the writer to accompany him, and
     elsewhere I have told in detail the story of that excursion,--[See
     Mark Twain; A Biography, chap.  ccli,]--which need be but briefly
     touched upon here.

     His work was mainly done aside from that of the delegation.  They
     had him scheduled for a speech, however, which he made without notes
     and with scarcely any preparation.  Meantime he had applied to
     Speaker Cannon for permission to allow him on the floor of the
     House, where he could buttonhole the Congressmen.

     This was mainly a joke.  Mark Twain did not expect any "thanks," but
     he did hope for access to the floor, which once, in an earlier day,
     had been accorded him.  We drove to the Capitol and he delivered his
     letter to "Uncle Joe" by hand.  "Uncle Joe" could not give him the
     privilege of the floor; the rules had become more stringent.  He
     declared they would hang him if he did such a thing.  He added that
     he had a private room down-stairs, where Mark Twain might establish
     headquarters, and that he would assign his colored servant, Neal, of
     long acquaintanceship with many of the members, to pass the word
     that Mark Twain was receiving.

     The result was a great success.  All that afternoon members of
     Congress poured into the Speaker's room and, in an atmosphere blue
     with tobacco smoke, Mark Twain talked the gospel of copyright to his
     heart's content.

     The bill did not come up for passage that session, but Mark Twain
     lived to see his afternoon's lobbying bring a return.  In 1909,
     Champ Clark, and those others who had gathered around him that
     afternoon, passed a measure that added fourteen years to the
     copyright term.

     The next letter refers to a proposed lobby of quite a different
     sort.

*****

To Helen Keller, in Wrentham, Mass.:

                                                       21 FIFTH AVENUE,
                                                       Dec.  23, '06.

DEAR HELEN KELLER,--... You say, "As a reformer, you know that ideas must be driven home again
and again."

Yes, I know it; and by old experience I know that speeches and documents and public meetings
are a pretty poor and lame way of accomplishing it. Last year I proposed a sane way--one which
I had practiced with success for a quarter of a century--but I wasn't expecting it to get any
attention, and it didn't.

Give me a battalion of 200 winsome young girls and matrons, and let me tell them what to do
and how to do it, and I will be responsible for shining results. If I could mass them on the
stage in front of the audience and instruct them there, I could make a public meeting take
hold of itself and do something really valuable for once. Not that the real instruction would
be done there, for it wouldn't; it would be previously done privately, and merely repeated there.

But it isn't going to happen--the good old way will be stuck to: there'll be a public meeting:
with music, and prayer, and a wearying report, and a verbal description of the marvels the
blind can do, and 17 speeches--then the call upon all present who are still alive, to contribute.
This hoary program was invented in the idiot asylum, and will never be changed. Its function
is to breed hostility to good causes.

Some day somebody will recruit my 200--my dear beguilesome Knights of the Golden Fleece--and
you will see them make good their ominous name.

Mind, we must meet! not in the grim and ghastly air of the platform, mayhap, but by the friendly
fire--here at 21.

                         Affectionately your friend,
                                   S. L. CLEMENS.

     They did meet somewhat later that winter in the friendly parlors of
     No. 21, and friends gathered in to meet the marvelous blind girl and
     to pay tribute to Miss Sullivan (Mrs. Macy) for her almost
     incredible achievement.