On our way back to the village, my uncle spoke not a word during the space of a whole hour,
but whistled with great vehemence the tune of "Why should we quarrel for riches," etc. his
visage being contracted all the while into a most formidable frown. At length his pace increased
to such a degree that I was left behind a considerable way: then he waited for me; and when
I was almost up with him, called out in a surly tone, "Bear a hand, damme! must I bring to
every minute for you, you lazy dog." Then, laying hold of me by the arm, hauled me along, until
his good nature (of which he had a great share) and reflection getting the better of his he
said, "Come, my boy, don't be cast down,--the old rascal is in hell, that's some satisfaction;
you shall go to sea with me, my lad. Though this proposal did not at all suit my inclination,
I was afraid of discovering my aversion to it, lest I should disoblige the only friend I had
in the world; and he was so much a seaman that he never dreamt I could have had any objection
to his design; consequently gave himself no trouble in consulting my approbation. But this
resolution was soon dropped, by the device of our usher, who assured Mr. Bowling, it would
be a thousand pities to balk my genius, which would certainly one day make my fortune on shore,
provided it received due cultivation. Upon which, this generous tar determined (though he could
ill afford it) to give me university education; and accordingly settled my board and other
expenses, at a town not many miles distant, famous for its colleges, whither we repaired in
a short time. But, before the day of our departure, the schoolmaster, who no longer had the
fear of my grandfather before his eyes, laid aside all decency and restraint, and not only
abused me in the grossest language his rancour could suggest, as a wicked, proffigate, dull,
beggarly miscreant, whom he had taught out of charity; but also inveighed in the most bitter
manner against the memory of the judge (who by the by had procured that settlement for him),
hinting, in pretty plain terms, that the old gentleman's soul was damned to all eternity for
his injustice in neglecting to pay for my learning. This brutal behaviour, added to the sufferings
I had formerly undergone made me think it high time to be revenged on this insolent pedagogue.
Having consulted my adherents, I found them all staunch in their promises to stand by me; and
our scheme was this:--In the afternoon preceding to the day of our departure for the University,
I resolved to take the advantage of the usher's going out to make water (which he regularly
did at four o'clock), and shut the great door, that he might not come to the assistance of
his superior. This being done, the assault was to be begun by my advancing to my master and
spitting in his face. I was to be seconded by two of the strongest boys in the school, who
were devoted to me; their business was to join me in dragging the tyrant to a bench, over which
he was to be laid, and his bare posteriors heartily flogged, with his own birch, which we proposed
to wrest from him in his struggle; but if we should find him too many for us all three, we
were to demand the assistance of our competitors, who should be ready to enforce us, or oppose
anything that might be undertaken for the master's relief. One of my principal assistants was
called Jeremy Gawky, son and heir of a wealthy gentleman in the neighbourhood; and the name
of the other, Hugh Strap, the cadet of a family which had given shoemakers to the village time
out of mind. I had once saved Gawky's life, by plunging into a river and dragging him on shore,
when he was on the point of being drowned. I had often rescued him from the clutches of those
whom his insufferable arrogance had provoked to a resentment he was not able to sustain; and
many times saved his reputation and posteriors, by performing his exercises at school; so that
it is not to be wondered at, if he had a particular regard for me and my interests. The attachment
of Strap flowed from a voluntary, disinterested inclination, which had manifested itself on
many occasions in my behalf, he having once rendered me the same service that I had rendered
Gawky, by saving my life at the risk of his own; and often fathered offences that I had committed,
for which he suffered severely, rather than I should feel the weight of the punishment. These
two champions were the more willing to engage in this enterprise, because they intended to
leave the school next day, as well as I; the first being ordered by his father to return into
the country, and the other being bound apprentice to his barber, at a market town not far off.

In the meantime, my uncle, being informed of my master's behaviour to me, was enraged at his
insolence, and vowed revenge so heartily that I could not refrain from telling him the scheme
I had concerted, while he heard with great satisfaction, at every sentence squirting out a
mouthful of spittle, tinctured with tobacco, of which he constantly chewed a large quid. At
last, pulling up his breeches, he cried, "No, no, z--ds! that won't do neither; howsoever,
'tis a bold undertaking, my lad, that I must say, i'faith; but lookee, lookee, how do you propose
to get clear off--won't the enemy give chase, my boy?--ay, ay, that he will, I warrant, and
alarm the whole coast; ah! God help thee, more sail than ballast, Rory. Let me alone for that--leave
the whole to me. I'll show him the foretopsail, I will. If so be your shipmates are jolly boys,
and won't flinch, you shall see, you shall see; egad, I'll play him such a salt-water trick
I'll bring him to the gangway and anoint him with a cat-and-nine-tails; he shall have a round
dozen doubled, my lad, he shall--and be left lashed to his meditations." We were very proud
of our associate, who immediately went to work, and prepared the instrument of his revenge
with great skill and expedition; after which, he ordered our baggage to be packed up and sent
off, a day before our attempt, and got horses ready to be mounted, as soon as the affair should
be over. At length the hour arrived, when our auxiliary, seizing the opportunity of the usher's
absence, bolted in, secured the door, and immediately laid hold of the pedant by his collar
who bawled out, "Murder, Thieves," with the voice of a Stentor. Though I trembled all over
like an aspen leaf, I knew there was no time to be lost, and accordingly got up, and summoned
our associates to our assistance. Strap, without any hesitation, obeyed the signal, and seeing
me leap upon the master's back, ran immediately to one of his legs, which pulling with all
his force, this dreadful adversary was humbled to the ground; upon which Gawky, who had hitherto
remained in his place, under the influence of a universal trepidation, hastened to the scene
of action, and insulted the fallen tyrant with a loud huzza, in which the whole school joined.
The noise alarmed the usher, who, finding himself shut out, endeavoured, partly by threats
and partly by entreaties, to procure admission. My uncle bade him have a little patience, and
he would let him in presently; but if he pretended to stir from that place, it should fare
the worse with the son of a bitch his superior, on whom he intended only to bestow a little
wholesome chastisement, for his barbarous usage of Rory, "to which," said he, "you are no stranger."
By this time we had dragged the criminal to a post, to which Bowling tied him with a rope he
had provided on purpose; after having secured his hands and stripped his back. In this ludicrous
posture he stood (to the no small entertainment of the boys, who crowded about him, and shouted
with great exultation at the novelty of the sight), venting bitter imprecations against the
lieutenant, and reproaching his scholars with treachery and rebellion; when the usher was admitted,
whom my uncle accosted in this manner: "Harkee, Mr. Syntax, I believe you are an honest man,
d'ye see--and I have a respect for you--but for all that, we must, for our own security, d'ye
see, belay you for a short time." With these words, he pulled out some fathoms of cord, which
the honest man no sooner saw than he protested with great earnestness he would allow no violence
to be offered to him, at the same time accusing me of perfidy and ingratitude. But Bowling
representing that it was in vain to resist, and that he did not mean to use him with violence
and indecency, but only to hinder him from raising the hue and cry against us before we should
be out of their power, he allowed himself to be bound to his own desk, where he sat a spectator
of the punishment inflicted on his principal. My uncle, having upbraided this arbitrary wretch
with his inhumanity to me, told him, that he proposed to give him a little discipline for the
good of his soul, which he immediately put in practice, with great vigour and dexterity. This
smart application to the pedant's withered posteriors gave him such exquisite pain that he
roared like a mad bull, danced, cursed, and blasphemed, like a frantic bedlamite. When the
lieutenant thought himself sufficiently revenged, he took his leave of him in these words:
"Now, friend, you'll remember me the longest day you have to live; I have given you a lesson
that will let you know what flogging is, and teach you to have more sympathy for the future.
Shout, boys, shout!"

This ceremony was no sooner over than my uncle proposed they should quit the school, and convey
their old comrade Rory to the public-house, about a mile from the village, where he would treat
them all. His offer being joyfully embraced, he addressed himself to Mr. Syntax, and begged
him to accompany us; but this invitation he refused with great disdain, telling my benefactor
he was not the man he took him to be. "Well, well, old surly," replied my uncle, shaking his
hand, "thou art an honest fellow notwithstanding; and if ever I have the command of a ship,
thou shalt be our schoolmaster, i'faith." So saying he dismissed the boys, and locking the
door, left the two preceptors to console one another; while we moved forwards on our journey,
attended by a numerous retinue, whom he treated according to his promise.

We parted with many tears, and lay that night at an inn on the road, about ten miles short
of the town where I was to remain, at which we arrived next day, and I found I had no cause
to complain of the accommodations provided for me, in being boarded at the house of an apothecary,
who had married a distant relation of my mother. In a few days after, my uncle set out for
his ship, having settled the necessary funds for my maintenance and education.

CHAPTER VI

I make great progress in my Studies--am caressed by Everybody--my female Cousins take notice
of me--I reject their Invitation--they are incensed, and conspire against me--am left destitute
by a Misfortune that befalls my Uncle-Gawky's Treachery--my Revenge

As I was now capable of reflection, I began to consider my precarious situation; that I was
utterly abandoned by those whose duty it was to protect me: and that my sole dependence was
on the generosity of one man, who was not only exposed by his profession to continual dangers,
which might one day deprive me of him for ever; but also (no doubt) subject to those vicissitudes
of disposition which a change of fortune usually creates, or which a better acquaintance with
the world might produce; for I always ascribed his benevolence to the dictates of a heart as
yet undebauched by a commerce with mankind. Alarmed at these considerations, I resolved to
apply myself with great care to my studies, and enjoy the opportunity in my power: this I did
with such success that, in the space of three years, I understood Greek very well, was pretty
far advanced in the mathematics, and no stranger to moral and natural philosophy: logic I made
no account of; but, above all things, I valued myself on my taste in the belles lettres, and
a talent for poetry, which had already produced some pieces that had met with a favourable
reception. These qualifications, added to a good face and shape, acquired the esteem and acquaintance
of the most considerable people in town, and I had the satisfaction to find myself in some
degree of favour with the ladies; an intoxicating piece of good fortune to one of my amorous
complexion! which I obtained, or at least preserved, by gratifying their propensity to scandal,
in lampooning their rivals.

Two of my female cousins lived in this place, with their mother, since the death of their father,
who left his whole fortune equally divided between them; so that, if they were not the most
beautiful, they were at least the richest toasts in town; and received daily the addresses
of all the beaux and cavaliers of the country. Although I had hitherto been looked upon by
them with the most supercilious contempt, my character now attracted their notice so much that
I was given to understand I might be honoured with their acquaintance, if I pleased.

The reader will easily perceive that this condescension either flowed from the hope of making
my poetical capacity subservient to their malice, or at least of screening themselves from
the lash of my resentment, which they had effectually provoked. I enjoyed this triumph with
great satisfaction, and not only rejected their offer with disdain, but in all my performances,
whether satire or panegyric, industriously avoided mentioning their names, even while I celebrated
those of their intimates: this neglect mortified their pride exceedingly and incensed them
to such a degree that they were resolved to make me repent of my indifference. The first stroke
of their revenge consisted in their hiring a poor collegian to write verses against me, the
subject of which was my own poverty, and the catastrophe of my unhappy parents; but, besides
the badness of the composition (of which they themselves were ashamed), they did not find their
account in endeavouring to reproach me with those misfortunes which they and their relations
had brought upon me; and which consequently reflected much more dishonour on themselves than
on me, who was the innocent victim of their barbarity and avarice.

Finding this plan miscarry, they found means to irritate a young gentleman against me, by telling
him I had lampooned his mistress; and so effectually succeeded in the quality of incendiaries
that this enraged lover determined to seize me next night as I returned to my lodgings from
a friend's house that I frequented: with this view, he waited in the street, attended by two
of his companions, to whom he had imparted his design of carrying me down to the river, in
which proposed to have me heartily ducked, notwithstanding the severity of the weather, it
being then about the middle of December. But this stratagem did not succeed; for, being apprised
of their ambush, I got home another way, and by the help of my landlord's apprentice, discharged
a volley from the garret window, which did great execution upon them, and next day occasioned
so much mirth at their expense that they found themselves under a necessity of leaving the
town, until the adventure should be entirely forgotten.

My cousins (though twice baffled in their expectation) did not, however, desist from persecuting
me, who had now enraged them beyond a possibility of forgiveness by detecting their malice
and preventing its effects: neither should I have found them more humane, had I patiently submitted
to their rancour, and borne without murmuring the rigour of their unreasonable hate; for I
have found by experience, that though small favours may be acknowledged and slight injuries
atoned, there is no wretch so ungrateful as he whom you have most generously obliged, and no
enemy so implacable as those who have done you the greatest wrong. These good-natured creatures,
therefore, had recourse to a scheme which conspired with a piece of bad news I soon after received,
to give them all the satisfaction they desired: this plan was to debauch the faith of my companion
and confidant, who betrayed the trust I reposed in him, by imparting to them the particulars
of my small amours, which they published with such exaggerations that I suffered very much
in the opinion of everybody, and was utterly discarded by the dear creatures whose names had
been called in question.

While I was busy in tracing out the author of this treachery, that I might not only be revenged
on him, but also vindicate my character to my friends, I one day perceived the looks of my
landlady much altered, when I went home to my dinner, and inquiring into the cause, she screwed
up her mouth, and fixed her eyes on the ground, told me her husband had received a letter from
Mr. Bowling, with one inclosed for me. She was very sorry for what had happened, both for my
sake and his own--people should be more cautious of their conduct--she was always afraid his
brutal behaviour would bring him into some misfortune or other. As for her part, she should
be very ready to befriend me; but she had a small family of her own to maintain. The world
would do nothing for her if she should come to want--charity begins at home: she wished I had
been bound to some substantial handicraft, such as a weaver or a shoemaker, rather than loiter
away my time in learning foolish nonsense, that would never bring me in a penny but some folks
are wise, and some are otherwise.

I was listening to this mysterious discourse with great amazement, when her husband entered,
and, without speaking a syllable, put both the letters into my hand. I received them trembling,
and read what follows:

    'To Mr. Roger Potion
    'Sir,
    'This is to let you know that I have quitted the Thunder
    man of war, being obliged to sheer off for killing my
    captain, which I did fairly on the beach, at Cape
    Tiberoon, in the Island of Hispaniola; having received
    his fire and returned it, which went through his body:
    and I would serve the best man so that ever stepped
    between stem and stern, if so be that he struck me, as
    Captain Oakum did. I am (thank God) safe among the
    French, who are very civil, thof I don't understand
    their lingo; and I hope to be restored in a little time,
    for all the great friends and parliamentary interest of
    the captain, for I have sent over to my landlord in Deal
    an account of the whole affair, with our bearings and
    distances while we were engaged, whereby I have desired
    him to lay it before his majesty, who (God bless him)
    will not suffer an honest tar to be wronged. My love to
    your spouse, and am your loving friend and servant to
    command, while
                             'Thomas Bowling,'

    'To Roderick Random

    'Dear Rory,
    'Don't be grieved at my misfortune, but mind your book,
    my lad. I have got no money to send you, but what of
    that? Mr. Potion will take care of you for the love he
    bears to me, and let you want for nothing; and it shall
    go hard but I will see him one day repaid. No more at
    present, but rests
         'Your dutiful uncle
           'and servant, till death,
             'Thomas Bowling.'

This letter (which, with the other, was dated from Port Lonis, in Hispaniola) I had no sooner
read than the apothecary, shaking his head, began: "I have a very great regard for Mr. Bowling
that's certain; and could be well content--but times are very hard. There's no such thing as
money to be got; I believe 'tis all vanished under ground, for my part. Besides, I have been
out of pocket already, having entertained you since the beginning of this month, without receiving
a sixpence, and God knows if ever I shall; for I believe it will go hard with your uncle. And
more than that, I was thinking of giving you warning, for I want your apartment for a new prentice,
whom I expect from the country every hour. So I desire you will this week provide yourself
with another lodging."

The indignation which this harangue inspired gave me spirits to support my reverse of fortune,
and to tell him I despised his mean selfish disposition so much that I would rather starve
than be beholden to him for one single meal. Upon which, out of my pocket money, I paid him
to the last farthing of what I owed, and assured him, I would not sleep another night under
his roof.

This said, I sallied out in a transport of rage and sorrow, without knowing whither to fly
for shelter, having not one friend in the world capable of relieving me, and only three shillings
in my purse. After giving way for a few minutes to the dictates of my rage, I went and hired
a small bedroom, at the rate of one shilling and sixpence per week, which I was obliged to
pay per advance, before the landlord would receive me: thither I removed my luggage; and next
morning got up, with a view of craving the advice and assistance of a person who had on all
occasions loaded me with caresses and made frequent offers of friendship, while I was under
no necessity of accepting them. He received me with his wonted affability, and insisted on
my breakfasting with him, a favour which I did not think fit to refuse. But when I communicated
the occasion of my visit, he appeared so disconcerted that I concluded him wonderfully affected
with the misery of my condition and looked upon him as a man of the most extensive sympathy
and benevolence. He did not leave me long under this mistake; for, recovering himself from
his confusion, he told me he was grieved at my misfortune, and desired to know what had passed
between my landlord, Mr. Potion, and me. Whereupon I recounted the conversation; and, when
I repeated the answer I made to his ungenerous remonstrance with regard to my leaving his house,
this pretended friend affected a stare, and exclaimed, "Is it possible you could behave so
ill to the man who had treated you so kindly all along?"

My surprise at hearing this was not at all affected, whatever his might be; and I gave to understand
with some warmth, that I did not imagine he would so unreasonably espouse the cause of a scoundrel
who ought to be expelled from every social community. This heat of mine gave him all the advantage
he desired over me, and our discourse, after much altercation, concluded in his desiring never
to see me again in that place; to which desire I yielded my consent, assuring him, that, had
I been as well acquainted with his principles formerly as I was now, he never should have had
an opportunity of making that request. And thus we parted.

On my return, I met my comrade, Squire Gawky, whom his father had sent, some time ago, to town,
for his improvement in writing, dancing, fencing, and other modish qualifications. As I had
lived with him since his arrival on the footing of our old intimacy, I made no scruple of informing
him of the lowness of my circumstances, and asking a small supply of money, to answer my present
expense; upon which he pulled out a handful of halfpence with a shilling or two among them,
and swore that was all he had to keep his pocket till next quarter-day he having lost the greatest
part of his allowance the night before at billiards. Though this assertion might very well
be true, I was extremely mortified at his indifference: for he neither expressed any sympathy
for my mishap nor desire of alleviating my distress; and accordingly I left him without uttering
one word: but, when I afterwards understood that he was the person who had formerly betrayed
me to the malice of my cousins, to whom likewise he had carried the tidings of my forlorn situation,
which afforded them great matter of triumph and exultation, I determined with myself to call
him to a severe account for which purpose I borrowed a sword, and wrote a challenge, desiring
him to meet me at a certain time and place, that I might have an opportunity of punishing his
perfidy, at the expense of his blood. He accepted the invitation, and I betook myself to the
field, though not without feeling considerable repugnance to the combat, which frequently attacked
me in cold sweats by the way; but the desire of revenge, the shame of retracting, and hope
of conquest, conspired to repel these unmanly symptoms of fear; and I appeared on the plain
with a good grace: there I waited an hour beyond the time appointed, and was not ill pleased
to find he had no mind to meet me, because I should have an opportunity of exposing his cowardice,
displaying my own courage, and of beating him soundly wheresoever I should find, without any
dread of the consequence.

Elevated with these suggestions, which entirely banished all thoughts of my deplorable condition,
I went directly to Gawky's lodgings, where I was informed of his precipitate retreat, he having
set out for the country in less than an hour after he had received my billet; and I was vain
enough to have the whole story inserted in the news, although I was fain to sell a gold laced
hat to my landlord for less than half-price, to defray the expenses and contribute to my subsistence.

CHAPTER VII

I am entertained by Mr. Crab--a description of him--I acquire the Art of Surgery--consult Crab's
Disposition--become necessary to him--an Accident happens--he advises me to launch out into
the world--assists me with Money--I set out for London

The fumes of my resentment being dissipated, as well as the vanity of my success, I found myself
deserted to all the horrors of extreme want, and avoided by mankind as a creature of a different
species, or rather as a solitary being, noways comprehended within the scheme or protection
of Providence. My despair had rendered me almost quite stupified, when I was one day told,
that a gentleman desired to see me at a certain public-house, whither immediately I repaired;
and was introduced to one Mr. Launcelot Crab, a surgeon in town, who was engaged with two more
in drinking a liquor called pop-in, composed by mixing a quartern of brandy with a quart of
small beer. Before I relate the occasion of this message, I believe it will not be disagreeable
to the reader, if I describe the gentleman who sent for me, and mention some circumstances
of his character and conduct which may illustrate what follows, and account for his behaviour
to me.

This member of the faculty was aged fifty, about five feet high, and ten round the belly; his
face was as capacious as a full moon, and much of the complexion of a mulberry: his nose, resembling
a powder-horn, was swelled to an enormous size, and studded all over with carbuncles; and his
little gray eyes reflected the rays in such an oblique manner that, while he looked a person
full in the face, one would have imagined he was admiring the buckle of his shoe. He had long
entertained an implacable resentment against Potion, who, though a younger practitioner, was
better employed than he, and once had the assurance to perform a cure, whereby he disappointed
and disgraced the prognostic of the said Crab. This quarrel which was at one time upon the
point of being made up, by the interposition and mediation of friends, had been lately inflamed
beyond a possibility of reconciliation by the respective wives of the opponents, who, chancing
to meet at a christening, disagreed about precedence, proceeded from invectives to blows, and
were with great difficulty, by the gossips, prevented from converting the occasion of joy into
a scene of lamentation.

The difference between these rivals was in the height of rancour, when I received the message
of Crab, who received me as civilly as I could have expected from one of his disposition; and,
after desiring me to sit, inquired into the particulars of my leaving the house of Potion;
which when I had related, he said, with a malicious grin, "There's a sneaking dog! I always
thought him a fellow without a soul, d--n me, a canting scoundrel, who has crept into business
by his hypocrisy, and kissing the a--e of every body."--"Ay, ay," says another, "one might
see with half an eye that the rascal has no honesty in him, by his going so regularly to church."

This sentence was confirmed by a third, who assured his companions that Potion was never known
to be disguised in liquor but once, at a meeting of the godly, where he had distinguished himself
by an extempore prayer an hour long. After this preamble, Crab addressed himself to me in these
words: "Well, my lad, I have heard a good character of you, and I'll do for you. You may send
your things to my house when you please. I have given orders for your reception. Zounds! What
does the booby stare at? If you have no mind to embrace my courteous offer, you may let it
alone, and be d--d." I answered with a submissive bow, that I was far from rejecting his friendly
offer, which I would immediately accept, as soon as he should inform me on what footing I was
to be entertained. "What footing! D--n my blood," cried he, "d'ye expect to have a footman
and a couple of horses kept for you?" "No, sir," I replied, "my expectations are not quite
so sanguine. That I may be as little burthensome as possible, I would willingly serve in your
shop, by which means I may save you the expense of a journeyman, or porter at least, for I
understand a little pharmacy, having employed some of my leisure hours in the practice of that
art, while I lived with Mr. Potion; neither am I altogether ignorant of surgery, which I have
studied with great pleasure and application."--"Oho! you did," says Crab. "Gentlemen, here
is a complete artist! Studied surgery! What? in books, I suppose. I shall have you disputing
with me one of these days on points of my profession. You can already account for muscular
motion, I warrant, and explain the mystery of the brain and nerves--ha! You are too learned
for me, d--n me. But let's have no more of this stuff. Can you blood and give a clyster, spread
a plaster, and prepare a potion?" Upon my answering in the affirmative, he shock his head,
telling me, he believed he should have little good of me, for all my promises; but, however,
he would take me in for the sake of charity. I was accordingly that very night admitted to
his house, and had an apartment assigned to me in the garret, which I was fain to put up with,
notwithstanding the mortification my pride suffered in this change of circumstances.

I was soon convinced of the real motives which induced Crab to receive me in this manner; for,
besides the gratification of his revenge, by exposing the selfishness of his antagonist, in
opposition to his own generosity, which was all affectation, he had occasion for a young man
who understood something of the profession, to fill up the place of his eldest apprentice,
lately dead, not without violent suspicion of foul play from his master's brutality. The knowledge
of this circumstance, together with his daily behaviour to his wife and the young apprentice,
did not at all contribute to my enjoying my new situation with ease; however, as I did not
perceive how I could bestow myself to better advantage, I resolved to study Crab's temper with
all the application, and manage it with all the address in my power. And it was not long before
I found out a strange peculiarity of humour which governed his behaviour towards all his dependents.
I observed, when he was pleased, he was such a niggard of his satisfaction that, if his wife
or servants betrayed the least symptom of participation, he was offended to an insupportable
degree of choler and fury, the effects of which they seldom failed to feel. And when his indignation
was roused, submission and soothing always exasperated it beyond the bounds of reason and humanity.
I therefore pursued a contrary plan; and one day, when he honoured me with the names of ignorant
whelp and lazy ragamuffin, I boldly replied, I was neither ignorant nor lazy, since I both
understood and performed my business as well as he could do for his soul; neither was it just
to call me ragamuffin, for I had a whole coat on my back, and was descended from a better family
than any he could boast an alliance with.

He gave tokens of great amazement at this assurance of mine, and shook his cane over my head,
regarding me all the time with a countenance truly diabolical. Although I was terribly startled
at his menacing looks and posture, I yet had reflection enough left to convince me I had gone
too far to retract, and that this was the critical minute which must decide my future lot in
his service; I therefore snatched up the pestle of a mortar, and swore, if he offered to strike
me without a cause, I should see whether his skull or my weapon was hardest.

He continued silent for some time, and at last broke forth into these ejaculations: "This is
fine usage from a servant to his master--very fine! damnation! but no matter, you shall pay
for this, you dog, you shall; I'll do your business--yes, yes, I'll teach you to lift your
hand against me." So saying, he retired, and left me under dreadful apprehensions, which vanished
entirely at our next meeting, when he behaved with unusual complacency, and treated me with
a glass of punch after dinner.

By this conduct I got the ascendancy over him in a short time, and became so necessary to him,
in managing his business while he was engaged at the bottle, that fortune began to wear a kinder
aspect; and I consoled myself for the disregard of my former acquaintance, with the knowledge
I daily imbibed by a close application to the duties of my employment, in which I succeeded
beyond my own expectation. I was on very good terms with my master's wife, whose esteem I acquired
and cultivated, by representing Mrs. Potion in the most ridiculous lights my satirical talents
could invent, as well as by rendering her some Christian offices, when she had been too familiar
with the dram bottle, to which she had oftentimes recourse for consolation, under the affliction
she suffered from a barbarous husband.

In this manner I lived, without hearing the least tidings of my uncle for the space of two
years, during which time I kept little or no company, being neither in a humour to relish nor
in a capacity to maintain much acquaintance; for the Nabal my master allowed me no wages, and
the small perquisites of my station scarcely supplied me with the common necessaries of life.
I was no longer a pert unthinking coxcomb, giddy with popular applause, and elevated with the
extravagance of hope: my misfortunes had taught me how little the caresses of the world, during
a man's prosperity, are to be valued by him; and how seriously and expeditiously he ought to
set about making himself independent of them. My present appearance, therefore, was the least
of my care, which was wholly engrossed in laying up a stock of instruction that might secure
me against the caprice of fortune for the future. I became such a sloven, and contracted such
an air of austerity, that everybody pronounced me crestfallen; and Gawky returned to town without
running any risk from my resentment, which was by this time pretty much cooled, and restrained
by prudential reasons so effectually that I never so much as thought of obtaining satisfaction
for the injuries he had done me.

When I deemed myself sufficiently master of my business I began to cast about for an opportunity
of launching into the world, in hope of finding some provision that might make amends for the
difficulties I had undergone; but, as this could not be effected without a small sum of money
to equip me for the field, I was in the utmost perplexity how to raise it, well knowing that
Crab, for his own sake, would never put me in a condition to leave him, when his interest was
so much concerned in my stay. But a small accident, which happened about this time, determined
him in my favour. This was no other than the pregnancy of his maidservant, who declared her
situation to me, assuring me at the same time that I was the occasion of it.

Although I had no reason to question the truth of this imputation, I was not ignorant of the
familiarities which had passed between her master and her, taking the advantage of which I
represented to her the folly of laying the burden at my door, when she might dispose of it
to much better purpose with Mr. Crab. She listened to my advice, and next day acquainted him
with the pretended success of their mutual endeavours. He was far from being overjoyed at this
proof of his vigour, which he foresaw might have very troublesome consequences; not that he
dreaded any domestic grumblings and reproaches from his wife, whom he kept in perfect subjection;
but because he knew it would furnish his rival Potion with a handle for insulting and undermining
his reputation, there being no scandal equal to that of uncleanness, in the opinion of those
who inhabit the part of the island where he lived. He therefore took a resolution worthy of
himself, which was, to persuade the girl that she was not with child, but only afflicted with
a disorder incidental to young women, which he could easily remove: with this view (as he pretended)
he prescribed for her such medicines as he thought would infallibly procure abortion; but in
this scheme he was disappointed, for the maid, being advertised by me of his design, and at
the same time well acquainted with her own condition, absolutely refused to follow his directions;
and threatened to publish her situation to the world if he would not immediately take some
method of providing for the important occasion, which she expected in a few months. It was
not long before I guessed the result of his deliberation, by his addressing himself to me one
day in this manner: "I am surprised that a young fellow like you discovers no inclination to
push his fortune in the world. Before I was of your age I was broiling on the coast of Guinea.
D--e! what's to hinder you from profiting by the war which will certainly be declared in a
short time against Spain? You may easily get on board of a king's ship in quality of surgeon's
mate, where you will certainly see a great deal of practice, and stand a good chance of getting
prize-money."

I laid hold of this declaration, which I had long wished for, and assured him I would follow
his advice with pleasure, if it were in my power; but that it was impossible for me to embrace
an opportunity of that kind, as I had no friend to advance a little money to supply me with
what necessaries I should want, and defray the expenses of my journey to London. He told me
that few necessaries were required; and, as for the expense of my journey, he would lend me
money, sufficient not only for that purpose, but also to maintain me comfortably in London
until I should procure a warrant for my provision on board of some ship.

I gave him a thousand thanks for his obliging offer (although I was very well apprised of his
motive, which was no other than a design to lay the bastard to my charge after my departure),
and accordingly set out in a few weeks for London; my whole fortune consisting of one suit
of clothes, half a dozen ruffled shirts, as many plain, two pair of worsted and a like number
of threaded stockings; a case of pocket instruments, a small edition of Horace, Wiseman's Surgery,
and ten guineas in cash; for which Crab took my bond, bearing five per cent interest; at the
same time giving me a letter to a member of parliament for our town, which he said would do
my business effectually.

CHAPTER VIII

I arrive at Newcastle--meet with my old Schoolfellow Strap--we determine to walk together to
London--set out on our Journey--put up at a solitary Alehouse--are disturbed by a strange Adventure
in the Night

There is no such convenience as a waggon in this country, and my finances were too weak to
support the expense of hiring a horse: I determined therefore to set out with the carriers,
who transport goods from one place to another on horseback; and this scheme I accordingly put
in execution on the 1st day of September, 1739, sitting upon a pack-saddle between two baskets,
one of which contained my goods in a knapsack. But by the time we arrived at Newcastle-upon-Tyne
I was so fatigued with the tediousness of the carriage, and benumbed with the coldness of the
weather, that I resolved to travel the rest of my journey on foot, rather than proceed in such
a disagreeable manner.

The ostler of the inn at which we put up, understanding I was bound for London, advised me
to take my passage in a collier which would be both cheap and expeditious and withal much easier
than to walk upwards of three hundred miles through deep roads in the winter time, a journey
which he believed I had not strength enough to perform. I was almost persuaded to take his
advice, when one day, stepping into a barber's shop to be shaved, the young man, while he lathered
my face, accosted me thus: "Sir, I presume you are a Scotchman." I answered in the affirmative.
"Pray," continued he, "from what part of Scotland?" I no sooner told him, than he discovered
great emotion, and not confining his operation to my chin and upper lip, besmeared my whole
face with great agitation. I was so offended at this profusion that starting up, I asked him
what the d--l he meant by using me so? He begged pardon, telling me his joy at meeting with
a countryman had occasioned some confusion in him, and craved my name. But, when I declared
my name was Random, he exclaimed in rapture, "How! Rory Random?" "The same," I replied, looking
at him with astonishment. "What!" cried he, "don't you know your old schoolfellow, Hugh Strap?"

At that instant recollecting his face, I flew into his arms, and in the transport of my joy,
gave him back one-half of the suds he had so lavishly bestowed on my countenance; so that we
made a very ludicrous appearance, and furnished a great deal of mirth for his master and shopmates,
who were witnesses of this scene. When our mutual caresses were over I sat down again to be
shaved, but the poor fellow's nerves were so discomposed by this unexpected meeting that his
hand could scarcely hold the razor, with which, nevertheless, he found means to cut me in three
places in as many strokes. His master, perceiving his disorder, bade another supply his place,
and after the operation was performed, gave Strap leave to pass the rest of the day with me.

We retired immediately to my lodgings, where, calling for some beer, I desired to be informed
of his adventures, which contained nothing more than that his master dying before his time
was out, he had come to Newcastle about a year ago, in expectation of journeywork, along with
three young fellows of his acquaintance who worked in the keels; that he had the good fortune
of being employed by a very civil master, with whom he intended to stay till the spring, at
which time he proposed to go to London, where he did not doubt of finding encouragement. When
I communicated to him my situation and design, he did not approve of my taking a passage by
sea, by reason of the danger of a winter voyage, which is very hazardous along that coast,
as well as the precariousness of the wind, which might possibly detain me a great while, to
the no small detriment of my fortune; whereas, if I would venture by land, he would bear me
company, carry my baggage all the way, and if we should be fatigued before we could perform
the journey it would be no hard matter for us to find on the road either return horses or waggons,
of which we might take the advantage for a very trifling expense.

I was so ravished at this proposal that I embraced him affectionately, and assured him he might
command my purse to the last farthing; but he gave me to understand he had saved money sufficient
to answer his own occasions; and that he had a friend in London who would soon introduce him
into business in that capital, and possibly have it in his power to serve me also.

Having concerted the plan and settled our affairs that night, we departed next morning by daybreak,
armed with a good cudgel each (my companion being charged with the furniture of us both crammed
into one knapsack), and our money sewed between the linings and waistbands of our breeches,
except some loose silver for our immediate expenses on the road, We travelled all day at a
round pace, but, being ignorant of the proper stages, were benighted at a good distance from
any inn, so that we were compelled to take up our lodging at a small hedge alehouse, that stood
on a byroad, about half-a-mile from the highway: there we found a pedlar of our own country,
in whose company we regaled ourselves with bacon and eggs, and a glass of good ale, before
a comfortable fire, conversing all the while very sociably with the landlord and his daughter,
a hale buxom lass, who entertained us with great good humour, and in whose affection I was
vain enough to believe I had made some progress. About eight o'clock we were all three, at
our own desire, shown into an apartment furnished with two beds, in one of which Strap and
I betook ourselves to rest, and the pedlar occupied the other, though not before he had prayed
a considerable time extempore, searched into every corner of the room, and fastened the door
on the inside with a strong iron screw, which he carried about with him for that use.

I slept very sound till midnight when I was disturbed by a violent motion of the bed, which
shook under me with a continual tremor. Alarmed at this phenomenon, I jogged my companion,
whom, to my no small amazement, I found drenched in sweat, and quaking through every limb;
he told me, with a low faltering voice, that we were undone; for there was a bloody highwayman,
loaded with pistols, in the next room; then, bidding me make as little noise as possible, he
directed me to a small chink in the board partition through which I could see a thick-set brawny
fellow, with a fierce countenance, sitting at a table with our young landlady, having a bottle
of ale and a brace of pistols before him.

I listened with great attention, and heard him say, in a terrible tone, "D--n that son of a
b--h, Smack the coachman; he has served me a fine trick, indeed! but d--ion seize me, if I
don't make him repent it! I'll teach the scoundrel to give intelligence to others while he
is under articles with me."

Our landlady endeavoured to appease this exasperated robber, by saying he might be mistaken
in Smack, who perhaps kept no correspondence with the other gentleman that robbed his coach;
and that, if an accident had disappointed him to-day, he might soon find opportunities enough
to atone for his lost trouble. "I'll tell thee what, my clear Bet," replied he, "I never had,
nor ever shall, while my name is Rifle, have such a glorious booty as I missed to-day. Z--s!
there was £400 in cash to recruit men for the king's service, besides the jewels, watches,
swords, and money belonging to the passengers. Had it been my fortune to have got clear off
with so much treasure, I would have purchased a commission in the army, and made you an officer's
lady, you jade, I would." "Well, well," cries Betty, "we must trust to Providence for that.
But did you find nothing worth taking which escaped the other gentlemen of the road?" "Not
much, faith," said the lover; "I gleaned a few things, such as a pair of pops, silver mounted
(here they are): I took them loaded from the captain who had the charge of the money, together
with a gold watch which he had concealed in his breeches. I likewise found ten Portugal pieces
in the shoes of a quaker, whom the spirit moved to revile me with great bitterness and devotion;
but what I value myself mostly for is, this here purchase, a gold snuffbox, my girl, with a
picture on the inside of the lid; which I untied out of the tail of a pretty lady's smock."

Here, as the devil would have it, the pedlar snored so loud, that the highwayman, snatching
his pistols, started up, crying, "Hell and d-n-n! I am betrayed! Who's that in the next room?"
Mrs. Betty told him he need not be uneasy: there were only three poor travellers, who, missing
the road, had taken up their lodgings in the house, and were asleep long ago. "Travellers,"
says he, "spies, you b--ch! But no matter; I'll send them all to hell in an instant!" He accordingly
ran towards our door; when his sweetheart interposing, assured him, there was only a couple
of poor young Scotchmen, who were too raw and ignorant to give him the least cause of suspicion;
and the third was a presbyterian pedlar of the same nation, who had often lodged in the house
before.

This declaration satisfied the thief, who swore he was glad there was a pedlar, for he wanted
some linen. Then, in a jovial manner, he put about the glass, mingling his discourse to Betty
with caresses and familiarities, that spoke him very happy in his amours. During that part
of the conversation which regarded this, Strap had crept under the bed, where he lay in the
agonies of fear; so that it was with great difficulty I persuaded him our danger was over,
and prevailed on him to awake the pedlar, and inform him of what he had seen and heard.

The itinerant merchant no sooner felt somebody shaking him by the shoulder, than he started
up, called, as loud as he could, "Thieves, thieves! Lord have mercy upon us!" And Rifle, alarmed
at this exclamation, jumped up, cocked one of his pistols, and turned towards the door to kill
the first man that should enter; for he verily believed himself beset: when his Dulcinea, after
an immoderate fit of laughter, persuaded him that the poor pedlar, dreaming of thieves, had
only cried out in his sleep.

Meanwhile, my comrade had undeceived our fellow-lodger, and informed him of his reason for
disturbing him; upon which, getting up softly, he peeped through the hole, and was so terrified
with what he saw, that, falling down on his bare knees, he put up a long petition to Heaven
to deliver him from the hands of that ruffian, and promised never to defraud a customer for
the future of the value of a pin's point, provided he might be rescued from the present danger.
Whether or not his disburthening his conscience afforded him any ease I knew not, but he slipped
into bed again, and lay very quiet until the robber and his mistress were asleep, and snored
in concert; then, rising softly, he untied a rope that was round his pack, which making fast
to one end of it, he opened the window with as little noise as possible, and lowered his goods
into the yard with great dexterity: then he moved gently to our bedside and bade us farewell,
telling us that, as we ran no risk we might take our rest with great confidence, and in the
morning assure the landlord that we knew nothing of his escape, and, lastly, shaking us by
the hands, and wishing us all manner of success, he let himself drop from the window without
any danger, for the ground was not above a yard from his feet as he hung on the outside.

Although I did not think proper to accompany him in his flight, I was not at all free from
apprehension when I reflected on what might be the effect of the highwayman's disappointment;
as he certainly intended to make free with the pedlar's ware. Neither was my companion at more
ease in his mind, but on the contrary, so possessed with the dreadful idea of Rifle, that he
solicited me strongly to follow our countryman's example, and so elude the fatal resentment
of that terrible adventurer, who would certainly wreak his vengeance on us as accomplices of
the pedlar's elopement. But I represented to him the danger of giving Rifle cause to think
we know his profession, and suggested that, if ever he should meet us again on the road, he
would look upon us as dangerous acquaintance, and find it his interest to put us out of the
way. I told him, withal, my confidence in Betty's good nature, in which he acquiesced; and
during the remaining part of the night we concerted a proper method of behaviour, to render
us unsuspected in the morning.

It was no sooner day than Betty, entering our chamber, and perceiving our window open, cried
out, "Odds-bobs! sure you Scotchmen must have hot constitutions to lie all night with the window
open in such cold weather." I feigned to start out of sleep, and, withdrawing the curtain,
called, "What's the matter?" When she showed me, I affected surprise, and said, "Bless me!
the window was shut when we went to bed." "I'll be hanged," said she, "if Sawney Waddle, the
pedlar, has not got up in a dream and done it, for I heard him very obstropulous in his sleep,
Sure I put a chamberpot under his bed!"

With these words she advanced to the bed, in which he lay, and, finding the sheets cold, exclaimed,
"Good lackadaisy! The rogue is fled." "Fled," cried I, with feigned amazement, "God forbid!
Sure he has not robbed us!" Then, springing up, I laid hold of my breeches, and emptied all
my loose money into my hand; which having reckoned, I said, "Heaven be praised, our money is
all safe! Strap, look to the knapsack." He did so, and found all was right. Upon which we asked,
with seeming concern, if he had stolen nothing belonging to the house. "No, no," replied she,
"he has stole nothing but his reckoning;" which, it seems, this pious pedlar had forgot to
discharge in the midst of his devotion.

Betty, after a moment's pause withdrew, and immediately we could hear her waken Rifle, who
no sooner heard of Waddle's flight than he jumped out of bed and dressed, venting a thousand
execrations, and vowing to murder the pedlar if ever he should set eyes on him again: "For,"
said he "the scoundrel has by this time raised the hue and cry against me."

Having dressed himself in a hurry, he mounted his horse, and for that time rid us of his company
and a thousand fears that were the consequence of it.

While we were at breakfast, Betty endeavoured, by all the cunning she was mistress of, to learn
whether or no we suspected our fellow-lodger, whom we saw take horse; but, as we were on our
guard, we answered her sly questions with a simplicity she could not distrust; when, all of
a sudden, we heard the trampling of a horse's feet at the door. This noise alarmed Strap so
much, whose imagination was wholly engrossed by the image of Rifle, that, with a countenance
as pale as milk, he cried, "O Lord! there is the highwayman returned!"

Our landlady, staring at these words, said, "What highwayman, young man? Do you think any highwaymen
harbour here?"

Though I was very much disconcerted at this piece of indiscretion in Strap, I had presence
of mind enough to tell her we had met a horseman the day before, whom Strap had foolishly supposed
to be a highwayman, because he rode with pistols; and that he had been terrified at the sound
of a horse's feet ever since.

She forced a smile at the ignorance and timidity of my comrade; but I could perceive, not without
great concern, that this account was not at all satisfactory to her.

CHAPTER IX

We proceed on our Journey--are overtaken by a Highwayman who fires at Strap--is prevented from
shooting me by a Company of Horsemen, who ride in pursuit of him--Strap is put to Bed at an
Inn--Adventures at that Inn

After having paid our score and taken leave of our hostess, who embraced me tenderly at parting,
we proceeded on our journey, blessing ourselves that we had come off so well. We had not walked
above five miles, when we observed a man on horseback galloping after us, whom we in a short
time recognised to be no other than this formidable hero who had already given us so much vexation.
He stopped hard by me, and asked if I knew who he was? My astonishment had disconcerted me
so much that I did not hear his question, which he repeated with a volley of oaths and threats;
but I remained as mute as before.

Strap, seeing my discomposure, fell upon his knees in the mud, uttering, with a lamentable
voice, these words: "For Christ's sake, have mercy upon us, Mr. Rifle! we know you very well."
"Oho!" cried the thief, "you do! But you never shall be evidence against me in this world,
you dog!" So saying, he drew a pistol, and fired it at the unfortunate shaver, who fell flat
upon the ground without speaking one word.

My comrade's fate and my own situation riveted me to the place where I stood, deprived of all
sense and reflection; so that I did not make the least attempt either to run away or deprecate
the wrath of this barbarian, who snapped a second pistol at me; but, before he had time to
prime again, perceiving a company of horsemen coming up, he rode off, and left me standing
motionless as a statue, in which posture I was found by those whose appearance had saved my
life. This company consisted of three men in livery, well armed, with an officer, who (as I
afterwards learned,) was the person from whom Rifle had taken the pocket pistols the day before;
and who, making known his misfortune to a nobleman he met on the road, and assuring him his
non-resistance was altogether owing to his consideration for the ladies in the coach, procured
the assistance of his lordship's servants to go in quest of the plunderer. This holiday captain
scampered up to me with great address, and asked who fired the pistol which he had heard.

As I had not yet recovered my reason, he, before I could answer, observed a body lying on the
ground, at which sight his colour changed, and he pronounced, with a faltering tongue, "Gentlemen,
here's murder committed! Let us alight." "No, no," said one of his followers, "let us rather
pursue the murderer. Which way went he, young man?"

By this time I had recollected myself so far as to tell them that he could not be a quarter
of a mile before; and to beg one of them to assist me in conveying the corpse of my friend
to the next house, in order to it being interred. The captain, foreseeing that, in case he
should pursue, he must soon come to action, began to curb his horse, and gave him the spur
at the same time, which treatment making the creature rear up and snort, he called out, his
horse was frightened, and would not proceed; at the same time wheeling him round and round,
stroking his neck, whistling and wheedling him with "Sirrah, sirrah--gently, gently." etc.
"Z--ds!", cried one of the servants, "sure my lord's Sorrel is not resty!"

With these words he bestowed a lash on his buttocks, and Sorrel, disdaining the rein sprang
forward with the captain at a pace that would have soon brought him up with the robber, had
not the girtle (happily for him) given way, by which means he landed in the dirt; and two of
his attendants continued their pursuit, without minding his situation. Meanwhile one of the
three who remained at my desire, turning the body of Strap, in order to see the wound which
had killed him, found him still warm and breathing: upon which, I immediately let him blood,
and saw him, with inexpressible joy, recover; he having received no other wound than what his
fear had inflicted. Having raised him upon his legs, we walked together to an inn, about half
a mile from the place, where Strap, who was not quite recovered, went to bed; and in a little
time the third servant returned with the captain's horse and furniture, leaving him to crawl
after as well as he could.

This gentleman of the sword, upon his arrival, complained grievously of the bruise occasioned
by his fall; and, on the recommendation of the servant, who warranted my ability, I was employed
to bleed him, for which service he rewarded me with half-a-crown.

The time between this event and dinner I passed in observing a game at cards between two farmers,
an exciseman, and a young fellow in a rusty gown and cassock, who, as I afterwards understood,
was curate of a neighbouring parish. It was easy to perceive that the match was not equal;
and that the two farmers, who were partners, had to do with a couple of sharpers, who stripped
them of all their cash in a very short time. But what surprised me very mach, was to hear this
clergyman reply to one of the countrymen, who seemed to suspect foul play, in these words:
"D--n me, friend, d'ye question my honour?"

I did not at all wonder to find a cheat in canonicals, this being a character frequent in my
own country; but I was scandalised at the indecency of his behaviour, which appeared in the
oaths he swore, and the bawdy songs which he sung. At last, to make amends in some sort, for
the damage he had done to the unwary boors, he pulled out a fiddle from the lining of his gown,
and, promising to treat them at dinner, began to play most melodiously, singing in concert
all the while. This good humour of this parson inspired the company with so much glee that
the farmers soon forgot their losses, and all present went to dancing in the yard.

While we were agreeably amused in this manner, our musician, spying a horseman a riding towards
the inn, stopped all of a sudden, crying out, "Gad so! gentlemen, I beg your pardon, there's
our dog of a doctor coming into the inn." He immediately commended his instrument, and ran
towards the gate, where he took hold of the vicar's bridle, and helped him off, inquiring very
cordially into the state of his health.

This rosy son of the church, who might be about the age of fifty, having alighted and entrusted
the curate with his horse, stalked with great solemnity, into the kitchen, where sitting down
by the fire, he called for a bottle of ale and a pipe; scarce deigning an answer to the submissive
questions of those who inquired about the welfare of his family. While he indulged himself
in this state, amidst a profound silence, the curate, approaching him with great reverence,
asked him if he would not be pleased to honour him with his company at dinner? To which interrogation
he answered in the negative, saying, he had been to visit Squire Bumpkin, who had drank himself
into a high fever at the last assizes; and that he had, on leaving his own house, told Betty
he should dine at home. Accordingly when he had made an end of his bottle and pipe, he rose,
and moved with prelatical dignity to the door, where his journeyman stood ready with his nag.
He had no sooner mounted than the facetious curate, coming into the kitchen, held forth in
this manner: "There the old rascal goes, and the d--l go with him. You see how the world wags,
gentlemen. By gad, this rogue of a vicar does not deserve to live; and yet he has two livings
worth four hundred pounds per annum, while poor I am fain to do all his drudgery, and ride
twenty miles every Sunday to preach--for what? why, truly, for twenty pounds a year. I scorn
to boast of my own qualifications but--comparisons are odious. I should be glad to know how
this wag-bellied doctor deserves to be more at ease than me. He can loll in his elbow chair
at home, indulge himself in the best of victuals and wine and enjoy the conversation of Betty,
his housekeeper. You understand me, gentlemen. Betty is the doctor's poor kinswoman, and a
pretty girl she is; but no matter for that; ay, and dutiful girl to her parents, whom she visits
regularly every year, though I must own I could never learn in what county they live, My service
t'ye, gentlemen."

By this time dinner being ready, I waked my companion, and we ate altogether with great cheerfulness.
When our meal was ended, and every man's share of the reckoning adjusted, the curate went out
on pretence of some necessary occasion, and, mounting his house, left the two farmers to satisfy
the host in the best manner they could. We were no sooner informed of this piece of finesse,
than the exciseman, who had been silent hitherto, began to open with a malicious grin: "Ay,
ay this is an old trick of Shuffle; I could not help smiling when he talked of treating. You
must know this is a very curious fellow. He picked up some scraps of learning while he served
young Lord Trifte at the university. But what he most excels in is pimping. No one knows his
talents better than I, for I was valet-de-chambre to Squire Tattle an intimate companion of
Shuffle's lord. He got him self into a scrape by pawning some of his lordship's clothes on
which account he was turned away; but, as he was acquainted with some particular circumstances
of my lord's conduct, he did not care to exasperate him too much, and so made interest for
his receiving orders, and afterwards recommended him to the curacy which he now enjoys. However,
the fellow cannot be too much admired for his dexterity in making a comfortable livelihood,
in spite of such a small allowance. You hear he plays a good stick, and is really diverting
company; these qualifications make him agreeable wherever he goes; and, as for playing at cards
there is not a man within three counties for him. The truth is, he is a d--able cheat, and
can shift a card with such address that it is impossible to discover him."

Here he was interrupted by one of the farmers, who asked, why he had not justice enough to
acquaint them with these particulars before they engaged in play. The exciseman replied, without
any hesitation, that it was none of his business to intermeddle between man and man; besides,
he did not know they were ignorant of Shuffle's character, which was notorious to the whole
country. This did not satisfy the other, who taxed him with abetting and assisting the curate's
knavery, and insisted on having his share of the winnings returned; this demand the exciseman
as positively refused affirming that, whatever sleights Shuffle might practise on other occasions,
he was very certain that he had played on the square with them, and would answer it before
any bench in Christendom; so saying, he got up and, having paid his reckoning, sneaked off.

The Landlord, thrusting his neck into the passage to see if he was gone, shook his head, saying,
"Ah! Lord help us! if every sinner was to have his deserts. Well, we victuallers must not disoblige
the excisemen. But I know what; if parson Shuffle and he were weighed together, a straw thrown
into either scale would make the balance kick the beam. But, masters, this is under the rose,"
continued Boniface with a whisper.

CHAPTER X

The Highwayman is taken--we are detained as Evidence against him--proceed to the next village--he
escapes--we arrive at another inn, where we go to Bed--in the Night we are awaked by a dreadful
Adventure--next night we lodge at the house of a Schoolmaster--our Treatment there

Strap and I were about to depart on our journey, when we perceived a crowd on the road coming
towards us, shouting and hallooing all the way. As it approached, we could discern a man on
horseback in the middle, with his hands tied behind him, whom we soon knew to be Rifle. The
highwayman, not being so well mounted as the two servants who went in pursuit of him, was soon
overtaken, and, after having discharged his pistols, made prisoner without any further opposition.
They were carrying him in triumph, amidst the acclamations of the country people, to a justice
of peace in a neighbouring village, but stopped at our inn to join their companions and take
refreshment.

When Rifle was dismounted and placed in the yard, within a circle of peasants, armed with pitchforks,
I was amazed to see what a pitiful dejected fellow he now appeared, who had but a few hours
before filled me with such terror and confusion. My companion was so much encouraged by this
alteration in his appearance that, going up to the thief, he presented his clenched fists to
his nose, and declared he would either cudgel or box with the prisoner for a guinea, which
he immediately produced, and began to strip, but was dissuaded from this adventure by me, who
represented to him the folly of the undertaking, as Rifle was now in the hands of justice,
which would, no doubt, give us all satisfaction enough.

But what made me repent of our impertinent curiosity was our being detained by the captors,
as evidence against him, when we were just going to set forward. However, there was no remedy;
we were obliged to comply, and accordingly joined in the cavalcade, which luckily took the
same road that we had proposed to follow. Abort the twilight we arrived at the place of our
destination, but as the justice was gone to visit a gentleman in the country, with whom (we
understood) he would probably stay all night, the robber was confined in an empty garret, three
stories high, from which it seemed impossible for him to escape; this, nevertheless, was the
case; for next morning when they went up stairs to bring him before the justice, the bird was
flown, having got out at the window upon the roof from whence he continued his route along
the tops of the adjoining houses, and entered another garret where he skulked until the family
were asleep; at which time he ventured down stairs, and let himself out by the street-door,
which was open.

This event was a great disappointment to those that apprehended him, who were flushed with
the hopes of the reward; but gave me great joy, as I was permitted now to continue my journey,
without any further molestation. Resolving to make up for the small progress we had hitherto
made, we this day travelled with great vigour and before night reached a market town twenty
miles from the place from whence we set out in the morning, without meeting any adventure worth
notice. Here having taken up our lodging at an in, I found myself so fatigued that I began
to despair of performing our journey on foot, and desired Strap to inquire if there were any
waggon, return horses, or any cheap carriage in this place, to depart for London next day.
He was informed that the waggon from Newcastle to London had halted there two nights ago, and
that it would be an easy matter to overtake it, if not the next day, at farthest, the day after
the next. This piece of news gave us some satisfaction; and, after having made a hearty supper
on hashed mutton, we were shown to our room, which contained two beds, the one allotted for
us, and the other for a very honest gentleman, who, we were told, was then drinking below.
Though we could have very well dispensed with his company, we were glad to submit to this disposition,
as there was not another bed empty in the house; and accordingly went to rest, after having
secured our baggage under the bolster. About two or three o'clock in the morning I was awaked
out of a very profound sleep by a dreadful noise in the chamber, which did not fail to throw
me into an agony of consternation, when I heard these words pronounced with a terrible voice:
"Blood and wounds! run the halbert into the guts of him that's next you, and I'll blow the
other's brains out presently."

This dreadful salutation had no sooner reached the ears of Strap than, starting out of bed,
he ran against somebody in the dark, and overturned him in an instant; at the same time bawling
out, "Fire! murder! fire!" a cry which in a moment alarmed the whole house, and filled our
chamber with a crowd of naked people. When lights were brought, the occasion of all this disturbance
soon appeared; which was no other than a fellow lodger, whom we found lying on the floor, scratching
his head, with a look testifying the utmost astonishment at the concourse of apparitions that
surrounded him.

This honest gentleman was, it seems, a recruiting sergeant, who, having listed two country
fellows over night, dreaded they had mutinied, and threatened to murder him and the drummer
who was along with him. This made such an impression on his imagination, that he got up in
his sleep and expressed himself as above. When our apprehension of danger vanished, the company
beheld one another with great surprise and mirth; but what attracted the notice of everyone
was our landlady, with nothing on her but her shift and a large pair of buckskin breeches,
with the backside before, which she had slipped on in the hurry, and her husband with her petticoat
about his shoulders; one had wrapped himself in a blanket, another was covered with a sheet,
and the drummer, who had given his only shirt to be washed, appeared in cuerpo with a bolster
rolled about his middle.

When this affair was discussed, everybody retired to his own apartment, the sergeant slipped
into bed, and my companion and I slept without any further disturbance till morning, when we
got up, went to breakfast, paid our reckoning, and set forward in expectation of overtaking
the waggon; in which hope, however, we were disappointed for that day. As we exerted ourselves
more than usual, I found myself quite spent with fatigue, when we entered a small village in
the twilight. We inquired for a public-house, and were directed to one of a very sorry appearance.
At our entrance the landlord, who seemed to be a venerable old man, with long gray hair, rose
from a table placed by a large fire in a very neat paved kitchen, and with a cheerful countenance
accosted us in these words: "Salvete, pueri. Ingredimini." I was not a little pleased to hear
our host speak Latin, because I was in hope of recommending myself to him by my knowledge in
that language; I therefore answered, without hesitation, "Dissolve frigus, ligna super foco--large
reponens." I had no sooner pronounced these words, than the old gentleman, running towards
me, shook me by the hand, crying, "Fili mi dilectissime! unde venis?--a superis, ni fallor?"
In short, finding we were both read in the classics, he did not know how to testify his regard
enough; but ordered his daughter, a jolly rosy-cheeked damsel who was his sole domestic, to
bring us a bottle of his quadrimum, repeating from Horace at the same time, "Deprome quadrimum
sabina, O Tholiarche, merum diota." This was excellent ale of his own brewing, of which he
told us he had always an amphora four years old, for the use of himself and friends.

In the course of our conversation, which was interlarded with scraps of Latin, we understood
that this facetious person was a schoolmaster, whose income being small, he was fain to keep
a glass of good liquor for the entertainment of passengers by which he made shift to make the
two ends of the year meet. "I am this day," said he, "the happiest old fellow in his majesty's
dominions. My wife, rest her soul, is in heaven. My daughter is to be married next week; but
the two chief pleasures of my life are these (pointing to the bottle and a large edition of
Horace that lay on the table). Carpe diem, quam minimum credula postero.'"

As he was very inquisitive about our affairs, we made no scruple of acquainting him with our
situation, which when he had learned, he enriched us with advices how to behave in the world,
telling us that he was no stranger to the deceits of mankind. In the meantime he ordered his
daughter to lay a fowl to the fire for supper, for he was resolved this night to regale his
friends--permittens divis caetera. While our entertainment was preparing, our host recounted
the adventures of his own life, which, as they contained nothing remarkable, I forbear to rehearse.
When we had fared sumptuously, and drunk several bottles of his I expressed a desire of going
to rest, which was with some difficulty complied with, after he had informed us that we should
overtake the waggon by noon next day; and that there was room enough in it for half-a-dozen,
for there were only four passengers as yet in that convenience.

Before my comrade and I fell asleep, we had some conversation about the good humour of our
landlord, which gave Strap such an idea of his benevolence, that he positively believed we
should pay nothing for our lodging and entertainment. "Don't you observe," said he, "that he
has conceived a particular affection for us--nay, even treated us at supper with extraordinary
fare, which, to be sure, we should not of ourselves have called for?"

I was partly of Strap's opinion; but the experience I had of the world made me suspend my belief
till the morning, when, getting up betimes, we breakfasted with our host and his daughter on
hasty-pudding and ale, and desired to know what we had to pay. "Biddy will let you know, gentlemen,"
said he; "for I never mind these matters. Money matters are beneath the concern of one who
lives upon the Horatian plan--Crescentum sequitur cura pecuniam." Meanwhile, Biddy, having
consulted a slate that hung in the corner, told us our reckoning came to 8s. 7d. "Eight shillings
and seven pence!" cried Strap, "'tis impossible! you must be mistaken, young woman." "Reckon
again, child," says her father, very deliberately; "perhaps you have miscounted." "No, indeed,"
replied she, "I know my business better." I could contain my indignation no longer, but said
it was an unconscionable bill, and demanded to know the particulars; upon which the old man
got up, muttering, "Ay, ay, let us see the particulars--that's but reasonable." And, taking
pen, ink, and paper, wrote the following items:

    To bread and beer             0 6
    To a fowl and sausages        2 6
    To four bottles of quadrim.   2 0
    To fire and tobacco           0 7
    To lodging                    2 0
    To breakfast                  1 0
                                 ----
                                  8 7

As he had not the appearance of a common publican, and had raised a sort of veneration in me
by his demeanour the preceding night, it was not in my power to upbraid him as he deserved;
therefore, I contented myself with saying I was sure he did not learn to be an extortioner
from Horace. He answered, I was but a young man and did not know the world, or I would not
tax him with extortion, whose only aim was to live contentus parvo, and keep off importuna
pauperies. My fellow traveller could not so easily put up with this imposition; but swore he
should either take one-third of the money or go without. While we were engaged in this dispute,
I perceived the daughter go out, and, conjecturing the occasion, immediately paid the exorbitant
demand, which was no sooner done than Biddy returned with two stout fellows, who came in on
pretence of taking their morning draught, but in reality to frighten us into compliance. Just
as we departed, Strap, who was half-distracted on account of this piece of expense, went up
to the schoolmaster, and, grinning in his face, pronounced with great emphasis--"Semper avarus
eget." To which the pedant replied, with a malicious smile--"Animum rege, qui, nisi paret,
imperat."

CHAPTER XI

We descry the Waggon--get into it--arrive at an inn--our Fellow Travellers described--a Mistake
is committed by Strap, which produces strange things

We travelled half-a-mile without exchanging one word; my thoughts being engrossed by the knavery
of the world, to which I must be daily exposed, and the contemplation of my finances, which
began sensibly to diminish. At length, Strap, who could hold no longer, addressed me thus:
"Well, fools and their money are soon parted. If my advice had been taken, that old skin-flint
should have been d--n'd before he had got more than the third of his demand. 'Tis a sure sign
you came easily by your money, when you squander it away in this manner. Ah! God help you,
how many bristly beards must I have mowed before I earned four shillings and threepence-halfpenny,
which is all thrown to the dogs! How many days have I sat weaving hair till my toes were numbed
by the cold, my fingers cramped, and my nose as blue as the sign of the periwig that hung over
the door! What the devil was you afraid of? I would have engaged to box with any one of those
fellows who came in for a guinea--I'm sure--I have beat stouter men than either of them." And,
indeed, my companion would have fought anybody when his life was in no danger; but he had a
mortal aversion to fire-arms and all instruments of death. In order to appease him, I assured
him no part of this extraordinary expense should fall upon his shoulders; at which declaration
he was affronted, and told me he would have me to know that, although he was a poor barber's
boy, yet he had a soul to spend big money with the best squire of the land.

Having walked all day at a great pace, without halting for a refreshment, we descried, toward
the evening, to our inexpressible joy, the waggon about a quarter of a mile before us; and,
by that time we reached it, were both of us so weary that I verily believe it would have been
impracticable for us to have walked one mile farther. We, therefore, bargained with the driver,
whose name was Joey, to give us a cast to the next stage for a shilling; at which place we
should meet the master of the waggon, with whom we might agree for the rest of the journey.

Accordingly the convenience stopped, and Joey having placed the ladder, Strap (being loaded
with our baggage) mounted first; but, just as he was getting in, a tremendous voice assailed
his ears in these words: "God's fury! there shall no passengers come here." The poor shaver
was so disconcerted at this exclamation, which both he and I imagined proceeded from the mouth
of a giant, that he descended with great velocity and a countenance as white as paper. Joey,
perceiving our astonishment, called, with an arch sneer, "Waunds, coptain, whay woant yau sooffer
the poor waggoneer to meake a penny? Coom, coom, young man, get oop, get oop, never moind the
coptain; I'se not afeard of the coptain."

This was not encouragement sufficient to Strap, who could not be prevailed upon to venture
up again; upon which I attempted, though not without a quaking heart, when I heard the same
voice muttering, like distant thunder--"Hell and the devil confound me, if I don't make you
smart for this!" However, I crept in, and by accident got an empty place in the straw, which
I immediately took possession of, without being able to discern the faces of my fellow-travellers
in the dark. Strap following, with the knapsack on his back, chanced to take the other side,
and, by a jolt of the carriage, pitched directly upon the stomach of the captain, who bellowed
out, in a most dreadful manner, "Blood and thunder! where's my sword?" At these words my frighted
comrade started up, and, at one spring, bounced against me with such force that I thought he
was the supposed son of Anak, who intended to press me to death. In the meantime a female voice
cried, "Bless me! what is the matter, my dear?" "The matter," replied the captain, "d--n my
blood! my guts are squeezed into a pancake by that Scotchman's hump." Strap, trembling all
the while at my back, asked him pardon, and laid the blame of what had happened upon the jolting
of the waggon; and the woman who spoke before went on: "Ay, ay, my dear, it is our own fault;
we may thank ourselves for all the inconveniences we meet with. I thank God I never travelled
so before. I am sure if my lady or Sir John were to know where we are they would not sleep
this night for vexation. I wish to God we had writ for the chariot; I know we shall never be
forgiven." "Come, come, my dear," replied the captain, "it don't signify fretting now; we shall
laugh it over as a frolic; I hope you will not suffer in your health. I shall make my lord
very merry with our adventures in this diligence."

The discourse gave me such a high notion of the captain and his lady that I durst not venture
to join in the conversation; but immediately after another female voice began: "Some people
give themselves a great many needless airs; better folks than any here have travelled in waggons
before now. Some of us have rode in coaches and chariots, with three footmen behind them, without
making so much fuss about it. What then? We are now all upon a footing; therefore let us be
sociable and merry. What do you say, Isaac? Is not this a good motion, you doting rogue? Speak,
you old cent per cent fornicator? What desperate debt are you thinking of? What mortgage are
you planning? Well, Isaac, positively you shall never gain my favour till you turn over a new
leaf, grow honest, and live like a gentleman. In the meantime give me a kiss, you old fumbler."
These words, accompanied with a hearty smack, enlivened the person to whom they were addressed
to such a degree that he cried, in transport, though with a faltering voice, "Ah! you wanton
baggage--upon my credit, you are a waggish girl--he, he, he!" This laugh introduced a fit of
coughing, which almost suffocated the poor usurer (such we afterwards found was the profession
of this our fellow-traveller).

About this time I fell asleep, and enjoyed a comfortable nap till such time as we arrived at
the inn where we put up. Here, having alighted from the waggon, I had an opportunity of viewing
the passengers in order as they entered. The first who appeared was a brisk, airy girl, about
twenty years old, with a silver-laced hat on her head instead of a cap, a blue stuff riding-suit,
trimmed with silver very much tarnished, and a whip in her hand. After her came, limping, an
old man, with a worsted nightcap buttoned under his chin, and a broad-brimmed hat slouched
over it, an old rusty blue cloak tied about his neck, under which appeared a brown surtout,
that covered a threadbare coat and waistcoat, and, as he afterwards discerned, a dirty flannel
jacket. His eyes were hollow, bleared, and gummy; his face was shrivelled into a thousand wrinkles,
his gums were destitute of teeth, his nose sharp and drooping, his chin peaked and prominent,
so that, when he mumped or spoke, they approached one another like a pair of nutcrackers: he
supported himself on an ivory-headed cane and his whole figure was a just emblem of winter,
famine, and avarice. But how was I surprised, when I beheld the formidable captain in the shape
of a little thin creature, about the age of forty, with a long withered visage, very much resembling
that of a baboon, through the upper part of which two little gray eyes peeped: he wore his
own hair in a queue that reached to his rump, which immoderate length, I suppose, was the occasion
of a baldness that appeared on the crown of his head when he deigned to take off his hat, which
was very much of the size and cock of Pistol's.

Having laid aside his great-coat, I could not help admiring the extraordinary make of this
man of war: he was about five feet and three inches high, sixteen inches of which went to his
face and long scraggy neck: his thighs were about six inches in length, his legs resembling
spindles or drumsticks, five feet and a half, and his body, which put me in mind of extension
without substance, engrossed the remainder: so that on the whole, he appeared like a spider
or grasshopper erect, and was almost a vox et praeterea nihil. His dress consisted of a frock
of what is called bearskin, the skirts of which were about half a foot long, an hussar waistcoat,
scarlet breeches reaching half way down his thighs, worsted stockings rolled up almost to his
groin, and shoes with wooden heels at least two inches high; he carried a sword very near as
long as himself in one hand, and with the other conducted his lady, who seemed to be a woman
of his own age, and still retained some remains of an agreeable person, but so ridiculously
affected, that, had I not been a novice in the world, I might have easily perceived in her
the deplorable vanity and second-hand airs of a lady's woman.

We were all assembled in the kitchen, when Captain Weazel (for that was his name) desired a
room with a fire for himself and spouse, and told the landlord they would up by themselves.
The innkeeper replied that he could not afford them a room by themselves; and as for supping,
he had prepared victuals for the passengers in the waggon, without respect of persons, but
if he could prevail on the rest to let him have his choice in a separate manner, he should
be very well pleased. This was no sooner said than all of us declared against the proposal,
and Miss Jenny (our other female passenger), observed that, if Captain Weazel and his lady
had a mind to sup by themselves, they might wait until we should have done. At this hint the
captain put on a martial frown, and looked very big, without speaking; while his yokefellow,
with a disdainful toss of her nose, muttered something about "Creature!" which Miss Jenny overhearing,
stepped up to her, saying, "None of your names, good Mrs. Abigail. Creature, quotha--I'll assure
you no such creature as you neither--no ten-pound sneaker--no quality-coupler." Here the captain
interposed, with a "D--e, madam, what do you mean by that?" "D--n you sir, who are you?" replied
Miss Jenny, "who made you a captain, you pitiful, trencher-scraping, pimping curler? 'Sdeath!
the army is come to a fine pass, when such fellows as you get commissions. What, I suppose
you think I don't know you? Egad, you and your helpmate are well met--a cast-off mistress and
a bald valet-de-chambre are well yoked together." "Blood and wounds!" cried Weazel, "d'ye question
the honour of my wife, madam? Hell and d-ion! No man in England durst say so much--I would
flay him, carbonado him! Fury and destruction! I would have his liver for my supper." So saying,
he drew his sword and flourished with it, to the great terror of Strap; while Miss Jenny, snapping
her fingers, told him she did not value his resentment a louse.

In the midst of this quarrel the master of the waggon alighted, who, understanding the cause
of the disturbance, and fearing the captain and his lady would take umbrage and leave his carriage,
was at great pains to have everything made up, which he at last accomplished, and we sat down
to supper altogether. At bedtime we were shown to our apartments; the old usurer, Strap, and
I, to one room; the captain, his wife, and Miss Jenny, to another. About midnight, my companion's
bowels being disordered, he got up, in order to go backward, but in his return, mistaking one
door for another, entered Weazel's chamber, and without any hesitation went to bed to his wife,
who was fast asleep, the captain being at another end of the room groping for some empty vessel,
in lieu of his own chamberpot, which was leaky: as he did not perceive Strap coming in, he
went towards his own bed, after having found a convenience; but no sooner did he feel a rough
head, covered with a cotton nightcap, than it came into his mind that he had mistaken Miss
Jenny's bed instead of his own, and that the head he felt was that of some gallant, with whom
she had made an assignation. Full of his conjecture, and scandalised at the prostitution of
his apartment, he snatched up the vessel he had just before filled, and emptied it at once
on the astonished barber and his own wife, who waking at that instant, broke forth into lamentable
cries, which not only alarmed the husband beyond measure, but frighted poor Strap almost out
of his senses; for he verily believed himself bewitched, especially when the incensed captain
seized him by the throat, with a volley of oaths, asking him how he durst have the presumption
to attempt the chastity of his wife. Poor Strap was so amazed and confounded, that he could
say nothing but--"I take God to witness she's a virgin for me."

Mrs. Weazel, enraged to find herself in such a pickle through the precipitation of her husband,
arose in her shift, and with the heel of her shoe which she found by the bedside, belaboured
the captain's bald pate till he roared "Murder." "I'll teach you to empty your stinkpots on
me," cried she, "you pitiful hop-o'-my-thumb coxcomb. What, I warrant you're jealous, you man
of lath. Was it for this I condescended to take you to my bed, you poor, withered, sapless twig?"

The noise occasioned by this adventure had brought the master of the waggon and me to the door,
where we overheard all that passed with great satisfaction. In the meantime we were alarmed
with the cry of "Rape! Murder! Rape!" which Jenny pronounced with great vociferation. "Oh!
You vile abominable old villain," said she, "would you rob me of my virtue? But I'll be revenged
of you, you old goat! I will! Help! for heaven's sake! help! I shall be ravished! ruined! help!"
Some servants of the inn, hearing this cry, came running upstairs with lights, and such weapons
as chance afforded; when we beheld a very diverting scene. In one corner stood the poor captain
shivering in his shirt, which was all torn to rags: with a woeful visage, scratched all over
by his wife, who had by this time wrapped the counterpane about her, and sat sobbing on the
side of her bed. At the other end lay the old usurer, sprawling on Miss Jenny's bed, with his
flannel jacket over his shirt, and his tawny meagre limbs exposed to the air; while she held
him fast by the two ears, and loaded him with execrations. When he asked what was the matter,
she affected to weep, told us she was afraid that wicked rogue had ruined her in her sleep,
and bade us take notice of what we saw, for she intended to make use of our evidence against
him. The poor wretch looked like one more dead than alive, and begged to be released; a favour
which he had no sooner obtained than he protested she was no woman, but a devil incarnate--that
she had first seduced his flesh to rebel, and then betrayed him. "Yes, cockatrice," continued
he, "you know you laid this snare fur me--but you shan't succeed--for I will hang myself before
you shall get a farthing of me." So saying, he crawled to his own bed, groaning all the way.
We then advanced to the Captain, who told us, "Gentlemen, here has been a d--d mistake; but
I'll be revenged on him who was the cause of it. That Scotchman who carries the knapsack shall
not breathe this vital air another day, if my name be Weazel. My dear, I ask you ten thousand
pardons; you are sensible, I could mean no harm to you." "I know not what you meant," replied
she, sighing, "but I know I have got enough to send me to my grave." At length they were reconciled.
The wife was complimented with a share of Miss Jenny's bed (her own being overflowed), and
the master of the waggon invited Weazel to sleep the remaining part of the night with him.
I retired to mine, where I found Strap mortally afraid, he having stolen away in the dark while
the captain and his lady were at loggerheads.

CHAPTER XII

Captain Weazel challenges Strap, who declines the Combat--an Affair between the Captain and
me--the Usurer is fain to give Miss Jenny five Guineas for a Release--we are in Danger of losing
a Meal--the Behaviour of Weazel, Jenny, and Joey, on that Occasion--an Account of Captain Weazel
and his Lady--the Captain's Courage tried--Isaac's mirth at the Captain's Expense

Next morning I agreed to give the master of the waggon ten shillings for my passage to London,
provided Strap should be allowed to take my place when I should be disposed to walk. At the
same time I desired him to appease the incensed captain, who had entered the kitchen with a
drawn sword in his hand, and threatened with many oaths to sacrifice the villain who attempted
to violate his bed; but it was to no purpose for the master to explain the mistake, and assure
him of the poor lad's innocence, who stood trembling behind me all the while: the more submission
that appeared in Strap, the more implacable seemed the resentment of Weazel, who swore he must
either fight him or he would instantly put him to death. I was extremely provoked at this insolence,
and told him, it could not be supposed that a poor barber lad would engage a man of the sword
at his own weapon; but I was persuaded he would wrestle or box with him. To which proposal
Strap immediately gave assent, by saying, "he would box with him for a guinea." Weazel replied
with a look of disdain, that it was beneath any gentleman of his character to fight like a
porter, or even to put himself on a footing, in any respect, with such a fellow as Strap. "Odds
bodikins!" cries Joey, "sure, coptain, yaw would not commit moorder! Here's a poor lad that
is willing to make atonement for his offence; and an that woan't satisfie yaw, offers to fight
yaw fairly. And yaw woan't box, I dare say, he will coodgel with yaw. Woan't yaw, my lad?"
Strap, after some hesitation, answered, "Yes, yes, I'll cudgel with him." But this expedient
being also rejected by the captain, I began to smell his character, and, tipping Strap the
wink, told the captain that I had always heard it said, the person who receives a challenge
should have the choice of the weapons; this therefore being the rule in point of honour, I
would venture to promise on the head of my companion, that he would even fight Captain Weazel
at sharps; but it should be with such sharps as Strap was best acquainted with, namely, razors.
At my mentioning razors: I could perceive the captain's colour change while Strap, pulling
me by the sleeve, whispered with great eagerness: "No, no, no; for the love of God, don't make
any such bargain." At length, Weazel, recovering himself, turned towards me, and with a ferocious
countenance asked, "Who the devil are you? Will you fight me?" With these words, putting himself
in a posture, I was grievously alarmed at seeing the point of a sword within half a foot of
my breast; and, springing to one side, snatched up a spit that stood in the chimney-corner,
with which I kept my formidable adversary at bay, who made a great many half-longes, skipping
backward at every push, till at last I pinned him up in a corner, to the no small diversion
of the company. While he was in this situation his wife entered, and, seeing her husband in
these dangerous circumstances, uttered a dreadful scream: in this emergency, Weazel demanded
a cessation, which was immediately granted; and at last was contented with the submission of
Strap, who, falling on his knees before him, protested the innocence of his intention, and
asked pardon for the mistake he had committed. This affair being ended without bloodshed, we
went to breakfast, but missed two of our company, namely, Miss Jenny and the usurer. As for
the first, Mrs. Weazel informed us, that she had kept her awake all night with her groans;
and that when she rose in the morning, Miss Jenny was so much indisposed that she could not
proceed on her journey. At that instant, a message came from her to the master of the waggon,
who immediately went into her chamber, followed by us all. She told him in a lamentable tone,
that she was afraid of a miscarriage, owing to the fright she received last night from the
brutality of Isaac; and, as the event was uncertain, desired the usurer might be detained to
answer for the consequence. Accordingly, this ancient Tarquin was found in the waggon, whither
he had retired to avoid the shame of last night's disgrace, and brought by force into her presence.
He no sooner appeared than she began to weep and sigh most piteously, and told us, if she died,
she would leave her blood upon the head of that ravisher. Poor Isaac turned up his eyes and
hands to heaven, prayed that God would deliver him from the machinations of that Jezebel; and
assured us, with tears in his eyes, that his being found in bed with her was the result of
her own invitation. The waggoner, understanding the case, advised Isaac to make it up, by giving
her a sum of money: to which advice he replied with great vehemence, "A sum of money!--a halter
for the cockatrice!" "Oh! 'tis very well," said Miss Jenny; "I see it is in vain to attempt
that flinty heart of his by fair means. Joey, be so good as to go to the justice, and tell
him there is a sick person here, who wants to see him on an affair of consequence." At the
name of justice Isaac trembled, and bidding Joey stay, asked with a quavering voice, "What
she would have? She told him that, as he had not perpetrated his wicked purpose, she would
be satisfied with a small matter. And though the damage she might sustain in her health might
be irreparable, she would give him a release for a hundred guineas." "A hundred guineas!" cried
he in an ecstacy, "a hundred furies! Where should a poor old wretch like me have a hundred
guineas? If I had so much money, d'ya think I should be found travelling in a waggon, at this
season of the year?" "Come, come," replied Jenny, "none of your miserly artifice here. You
think I don't know Isaac Rapine, the money-broker, in the Minories. Ah! you old rogue! many
a pawn have you had of me and my acquaintance, which was never redeemed." Isaac, finding it
was in vain to disguise himself, offered twenty shillings for a discharge, which she absolutely
refused under fifty pounds: at last, however, she was brought down to five, which he paid with
great reluctancy, rather than be prosecuted for a rape. After which accommodation, the sick
person made a shift to get into the waggon, and we set forward in great tranquillity; Strap
being accommodated with Joey's horse, the driver himself choosing to walk. The morning and
forenoon we were entertained with an account of the valour of Captain Weazel, who told us he
had once knocked down a soldier that made game of him; tweaked a drawer by the nose, who found
fault with his picking his teeth with a fork, at another time; and that he had moreover challenged
a cheesemonger, who had the presumption to be his rival: for the truth of which exploits he
appealed to his wife. She confirmed whatever he said, and observed, "The last affair happened
that very day on which I received a love-letter from Squire Gobble, and don't you remember,
my dear, I was prodigiously sick that very night with eating ortolans, when my Lord Diddle
took notice of my complexion's being altered, and my lady was so alarmed that she had well
nigh fainted?" "Yes, my dear," replied the captain, "you know my lord said to me, with a sneer,
'Billy, Mrs. Weazel is certainly breeding.' And I answered cavalierly, 'My lord, I wish I could
return the compliment.' Upon which the whole company broke out into an immoderate fit of laughter;
and my lord, who loves a repartee dearly, came round and bussed me." We travelled in this manner
five days, without interruption or meeting anything worth notice: Miss Jenny, who soon recovered
her spirits, entertaining us every day with diverting songs, of which she could sing a great
number; and rallying her own gallant, who, notwithstanding, would never be reconciled to her.
On the sixth day, while we were about to sit down to dinner, the innkeeper came and told us,
that three gentlemen, just arrived, had ordered the victuals to be carried to their apartment,
although he had informed them that they were bespoke by the passengers in the waggon. To which
information they had replied, "the passengers in the waggon might be d--d, their betters must
be served before them; they supposed it would be no hardship on such travellers to dine upon
bread and cheese for one day." This was a terrible disappointment to us all; and we laid our
heads together how to remedy it; when Miss Jenny observed that Captain Weazel, being by profession
a soldier, ought in this case to protect and prevent us from being insulted. But the Captain
excused himself, saying, he would not for all the world be known to have travelled in a waggon!
swearing at the same time, that could he appear with honour, they should eat his sword sooner
than his provision. Upon this declaration, Miss Jenny, snatching his weapon, drew it, and ran
immediately into the kitchen, where she threatened to put the cook to death if he did not send
the victuals into our chamber immediately. The noise she made brought the three strangers down,
one of whom no sooner perceived her than he cried, "Ha! Jenny Ramper! what the devil brought
thee hither?" "My dear Jack Rattle!" replied she, running into his arms, "is it you? Then Weazel
may go to hell for a dinner--I shall dine with you."

They consented to this proposal with a great deal of joy; and we were on the point of being
reduced to a very uncomfortable meal, when Joey, understanding the whole affair, entered the
kitchen with a pitchfork in his hand, and swore he would be the death of any man who should
pretend to seize the victuals prepared for the waggon. The menace had like to have produced
fatal consequences; the three strangers drawing their swords, and being joined by their servants,
and we ranging ourselves on the side of Joey; when the landlord, interposing, offered to part
with his own dinner to keep the peace, which was accepted by the strangers; and we sat down
at table without any further molestation. In the afternoon, I chose to walk along with Joey,
and Strap took my place. Having entered into a conversation with this driver, I soon found
him to be a merry, facetious, good-natured fellow, and withal very arch; he informed me, that
Miss Jenny was a common girl upon the town, who, falling into company with a recruiting officer,
he carried her down in the stage coach from London to Newcastle, where he had been arrested
for debt, and was now in prison; upon which she was fain to return to her former way of life,
by this conveyance. He told me likewise, that one of the gentleman's servants, who were left
at the inn, having accidentally seen Weazel, immediately knew him, and acquainted Joey with
some particulars of his character. That he had served my Lord Frizzle in quality of valet-de-chambre
many years, while he lived separate from his lady; but, upon their reconciliation, she expressly
insisted upon Weazel's being turned off, as well as the woman he kept: when his lordship, to
get rid of them both with a good grace, proposed that he should marry his Mistress, and he
would procure a commission for him in the army: this expedient was agreed to, and Weazel is
now, by his lordship's interest, ensigned in --'s regiment. I found he and I had the same sentiments
with regard to Weazel's courage, which he resolved to put to the trial, by alarming the passengers
with the cry of a 'highwayman!' as soon as a horseman should appear.

This scheme we put in practice, towards the dusk, when we descried a man on horseback approaching
us. Joey had no sooner intimated to the people in the waggon, that he was afraid we should
be all robbed than a general consternation arose: Strap jumped out of the waggon, and hid himself
behind a hedge. The usurer put forth ejaculations, and made a rustling among the straw, which
made us conjecture he had hid something under it. Mrs. Weazel, wringing her hands uttered lamentable
cries: and the captain, to our great amazement, began to snore; but this artifice did not succeed;
for Miss Jenny, shaking him by the shoulder, bawled out, "Sdeath! captain, is this a time to
snore, when we are going to be robbed? Get up for shame, and behave like a soldier and man
of honour!" Weazel pretended to be in a great passion for being disturbed, and swore he would
have his nap out if all the highwaymen in England surrounded him. "D--n my blood! what are
you afraid of?" continued he; at the same time trembling with such agitation that the whole
carriage shook. This singular piece of behaviour incensed Miss Ramper so much that she cried,
"D--n your pitiful soul, you are as arrant a poltroon, as ever was drummed out of a regiment.
Stop the waggon, Joey--let me out, and by G--d, if I have rhetoric enough, the thief shall
not only take your purse, but your skin also." So saying she leaped out with great agility.
By this time the horseman came up and happened to be a gentleman's servant well known to Joey,
who communicated the scheme, and desired him to carry it on a little further, by going into
the waggon, and questioning those within. The stranger, consenting for the sake of diversion,
approached it, and in a terrible tone demanded, "Who have we got here?" Isaac replied, with
a lamentable voice, "Here's a poor miserable sinner, who has got a small family to maintain,
and nothing in the world wherewithal, but these fifteen shillings which if you rob me of we
must all starve together." "Who's that sobbing in the other corner?" said the supposed highwayman.
"A poor unfortunate woman," answered Mrs. Weazle, "upon whom I beg you, for Christ's sake,
to have compassion." "Are you maid or wife," said he. "Wife, to my sorrow," said she. "Who,
or where is your husband?" continued he. "My husband," replied Mrs. Weazel, "is an officer
in the army and was left sick at the last inn where we dined." "You must be mistaken, madam,"
said he, "for I myself saw him get into the waggon this afternoon. But pray what smell is that?
Sure your lapdog has befouled himself; let me catch hold of the nasty cur, I'll teach him better
manners." Here he laid hold of one of Weazel's legs, and pulled him out from under his wife's
petticoat, where he had concealed himself. The poor trembling captain, being detected in his
inglorious situation, rubbed his eyes, and affecting to wake out of sleep, cried, "What's the
matter? What's the matter?" "The matter is not much," answered the horseman; "I only called
in to inquire after your health, and so adieu, most noble captain." He clapped spurs to his
horse, and was out of sight in a moment.

It was some time before Weazel could recollect himself, but at length reassuming the big look,
he said, "D--n the fellow! why did he ride away before I had time to ask him how his lord and
lady do I? Don't you remember Tom, my dear?" addressing himself to his wife. "Yes," replied
she, "I think I do remember something of the fellow, but you know I seldom converse with people
of his station." "Hey-day!" cried Joey, "do yaw knaw the young mon, coptain?" "Know him," said
Weazel, "many a time has he filled a glass of Burgundy for me, at my Lord Trippett's table."
"And what may his name be, coptain?" said Joey. "His name!--his name," replied Weazel, "is
Tom Rinser." "Waunds," cried Joey, "a has changed his own neame then! for I'se lay a wager
he was christened John Trotter." This observation raised a laugh against the captain, who seemed
very much disconcerted; when Isaac broke silence, and said, "It is no matter who or what he
was, since he has not proved the robber we suspected, and we ought to bless God for our narrow
escape." "Bless God," said Weazel, "bless the devil! for what? Had he been a highwayman, I
should have eaten his blood, body, and guts, before he had robbed me, or any one in this diligence."
"Ha, ha, ha," cried Miss Jenny, "I believe you will eat all you kill, indeed, captain." The
usurer was so well pleased at the event of this adventure, that he could not refrain from being
severe, and took notice that Captain Weazel seemed to be a good Christian, for he had armed
himself with patience and resignation, instead of carnal weapons; and worked out his salvation
with fear and trembling. This piece of satire occasioned a great deal of mirth at Weazel's
expense, who muttered a great many oaths, and threatened to cut Isaac's throat. The usurer,
taking hold of this menace, said, "Gentlemen and ladies, I take you all to witness, that in
my life is in danger from this bloody-minded officer; I'll have him bound over to the peace."
This second sneer produced another laugh against him, and he remained crestfallen during the
remaining part of our journey.

CHAPTER XIII

Strap and I are terrified by an Apparition--Strap's Conjecture--the Mystery explained by Joey--we
arrive in London--our Dress and Appearance described--we are insulted in the Street--an Adventure
in an Alehouse--we are imposed upon by a waggish Footman--set to rights by a Tobacconist--take
Lodgings--dive for a Dinner--an Accident at our Ordinary

We arrived at our inn, supped, and went to bed; but Strap's distemper continuing, he was obliged
to rise in the middle of the night, and taking the candle in his hand, which he had left burning
for the purpose, he went down to the house of office, whence in a short time he returned in
a great hurry, with his hair standing on end, and a look betokening horror and astonishment.
Without speaking a word, he set down the light and jumped into bed behind me, where he lay
and trembled with great violence. When I asked him what was the matter, he replied, with a
broken accent, "God have mercy on us! I have seen the devil!" Though my prejudice was not quite
so strong as his, I was not a little alarmed at this exclamation, and much more so when I heard
the sound of bells approaching our chamber, and felt my bedfellow cling close to me, uttering
these words, "Christ have mercy upon us; there he comes!" At that instance a monstrous overgrown
raven entered our chamber, with bells at his feet, and made directly towards our bed. As this
creature is reckoned in our country a common vehicle for the devil and witches to play their
pranks in, I verily believed we were haunted; and, in a violent fright, shrank under the bedclothes.
This terrible apparition leaped upon the bed, and after giving us several severe dabs with
its beak through the blankets, hopped away, and vanished. Strap and I recommended ourselves
to the protection of heaven with great devotion, and, when we no longer heard the noise, ventured
to peep up and take breath. But we had not been long freed from this phantom, when another
appeared, that had well nigh deprived us both of our senses. We perceived an old man enter
the room, with a long white beard that reached to his middle; there was a certain wild peculiarity
in his eyes and countenance that did not savour of this world; and his dress consisted of a
brown stuff coat, buttoned behind and at the wrists, with an odd-fashioned cap of the same
stuff upon his head. I was so amazed that I had not power to move my eyes from such a ghastly
object, but lay motionless and saw him come straight up to me: when he reached the bed, he
wrung his hands, and cried, with a voice that did not seem to belong to a human creature, "Where
is Ralph?" I made no reply: upon which he repeated, in an accent still more preternatural,
"Where is Ralpho?" He had no sooner pronounced these words than I heard the sound of the bells
at a distance; which the apparition, having listened to, tripped away, and left me almost petrified
with fear. It was a good while before I could recover myself so far as to speak; and, when
at length I turned to Strap, I found him in a fit, which, however, did not last long. When
he came to himself, I asked his opinion of what had happened; and he assured me that the first
must certainly be the soul of some person damned, which appeared by the chain about his legs
(for his fears had magnified the creature to the bigness of a horse, and the sound of small
morice-bells to the clanking of massy chains). As for the old man, he took it to be the spirit
of somebody murdered long ago in this place, which had power granted to forment the assassin
in the shape of a raven, and that Ralpho was the name of the said murderer. Although I had
not much faith in this interpretation, I was too much troubled to enjoy any sleep: and in all
my future adventures never passed a night so ill.

In the morning Strap imparted the whole affair to Joey, who, after an immoderate fit of laughter,
explained the matter, by telling him that the old man was the landlord's father, who had been
an idiot some years, and diverted himself with a tame raven, which, it seems, had hopped away
from his apartment in the night, and induced him to follow it to our chamber, where he had
inquired after it under the name of Ralpho.

Nothing remarkable happened during the remaining part of our journey, which continued six or
seven days longer: at length we entered the great city, and lodged all night at the inn where
the waggon put up. Next morning all the passengers parted different ways, while my companion
and I sallied out to inquire for the member of parliament, to whom I had a letter of recommendation
from Mr. Crab. As we had discharged our lodging at the inn, Strap took up our baggage and,
marched behind me in the street with the knapsack on his back, as usual, so that we made a
very whimsical appearance. I had dressed myself to the greatest advantage; that is, put on
a clean ruffled shirt, and my best thread stockings: my hair (which was of the deepest red)
hung down upon my shoulders, as lank and straight as a pound of candles; and the skirts of
my coat reached to the middle of my leg; my waistcoat and breeches were of the same piece,
and cut in the same taste; and my hat very much resembled a barber's basin, in the shallowness
of the crown and narrowness of the brim. Strap was habited in a much less awkward manner: but
a short crop-eared wig, that very much resembled Scrub's in the play, and the knapsack on his
back, added to what is called a queer phiz, occasioned by a long chin, a hook nose, and high
cheek bones, rendered him, on the whole, a very fit subject of mirth and pleasantry. As he
walked along, Strap, at my desire, inquired of a carman, whom we met, whereabouts Mr. Cringer
lived: and was answered by a stare, accompanied with the word "Anan!" Upon which I came up,
in order to explain the question, but had the misfortune to be unintelligible likewise, the
carman damning us for a lousy Scotch guard, whipping his horses with a "Gee ho!" which nettled
me to the quick, and roused the indignation of Strap so far that, after the fellow was gone
a good way, he told me he would fight him for a farthing.

While we were deliberating upon what was to be done, a hackney coachman, driving softly along,
and perceiving us standing by the kennel, came up close to us, and calling, "A coach, master!"
by a dexterous management of the reins made his horses stumble in the wet, and bedaub us all
over with mud. After which exploit he drove on, applauding himself with a hearty laugh, in
which several people joined, to my great mortification; but one, more compassionate than the
rest, seeing us strangers, advised me to go into an alehouse, and dry myself. I thanked him
for his advice, which I immediately complied with; and, going into the house he pointed out,
called for a pot of beer, and sat down by a fire in the public room where we cleaned ourselves
as well as we could. In the meantime, a wag, who sat in a box, smoking his pipe, understanding,
by our dialect, that we were from Scotland, came up to me and, with a grave countenance asked
how long I had been caught. As I did not know the meaning of this question, I made no answer;
and he went on, saying it could not be a great while, for my tail was not yet cut; at the same
time taking hold of my hair, and tipping the wink to the rest of the company, who seemed highly
entertained with his wit. I was incensed at this usage, but afraid of resenting it, because
I happened to be in a strange place, and perceived the person who spoke to me was a brawny
fellow, for whom I thought myself by no means a match. However, Strap, having either more courage
or less caution, could not put up with the insults I suffered, but told him in a peremptory
tone, "He was an uncivil fellow for making so free with his betters." Then the wit going toward
him, asked him what he had got in his knapsack? "Is it oatmeal or brimstone, Sawney?" said
he, seizing him by the chin, which he shook, to the inexpressible diversion of all present.
My companion, feeling himself assaulted in such an opprobrious manner, disengaged himself in
a trice, and lent his antagonist such a box on the ear as made him stagger to the other side
of the room; and, in a moment, a ring was formed for the combatants. Seeing Strap beginning
to strip, and my blood being heated with indignation, which banished all other thoughts, I
undressed myself to the skin in an instant, and declared, that as the affront that occasioned
the quarrel was offered to me, I would fight it out myself; upon which one or two cried out,
"That's a brave Scotch boy; you shall have fair play." His assurance gave me fresh spirits,
and, going up to my adversary, who by his pale countenance did not seem much inclined to the
battle, I struck him so hard on the stomach, that he reeled over a bench, and fell to the ground.
Then I attempted to keep him down, in order to improve my success, according to the manner
of my own country, but was restrained by the spectators, one of whom endeavoured to raise up
my opponent, but in vain; for he protested he would not fight, for he was not quite recovered
of a late illness. I was very well pleased with this excuse, and immediately dressed myself,
having acquired the good opinion of the company for my bravery, as well as of my comrade Strap,
who shook me by the hand, and wished me joy of the victory.

After having drunk our pot, and dried our clothes, we inquired of the landlord if he knew Mr.
Cringer, the member of parliament, and were amazed at his replying in the negative; for we
imagined he must be altogether as conspicuous here as in the borough he represented; but he
told us we might possibly hear of him as we passed along. We betook ourselves therefore to
the street, where seeing a footman standing at the door, we made up to him, and asked if he
knew where our patron lived? This member of the particoloured fraternity, surveying us both
very minutely, said he knew Mr. Cringer very well, and bade us turn down the first street on
our left, then turn to the right, and then to the left again, after which perambulation we
would observe a lane, through which we must pass, and at the other end we should find an alley
that leads to another street, where we should see the sign of the Thistle and Three Pedlars,
and there he lodged. We thanked him for his information, and went forwards, Strap telling me,
that he knew this person to be an honest friendly man by his countenance, before he opened
his mouth; in which opinion I acquiesced, ascribing his good manners to the company he daily
saw in the house where he served.

We followed his directions punctually, in turning to the left, and to the right, and to the
left again; but instead of seeing a lane before us, found ourselves at the side of the river,
a circumstance that perplexed us not a little; and my fellow-traveller ventured to pronounce,
that we had certainly missed our way. By this time we were pretty much fatigued with our walk,
and not knowing how to proceed, I went into a small snuff-shop hard by, encouraged by the sign
of the Highlander, where I found, to my inexpressible satisfaction, the shopkeeper was my countryman.
He was no sooner informed of our peregrination, and the directions we had received from the
footman, than he informed us we had been imposed upon, telling us, Mr. Cringer lived in the
other end of the town and that it would be to no purpose for us to go thither to-day, for by
that time he was gone to the House. I then asked, if he could recommend us a lodging. He really
gave us a line to one of his acquaintance who kept a chandler's shop not far from St. Martin's
Lane; there we hired a bed-room, up two pair of stairs, at the rate of two shillings per week,
so very small, that when the bed was let down, we were obliged to carry out every other piece
of furniture that belonged to the apartment, and use the bedstead by way of chairs. About dinner-time,
our landlord asked how we proposed to live? to which interrogation we answered, that we would
be directed by him. "Well, then," says he, "there are two ways of eating in this town for people
of your condition--the one more creditable and expensive than the other: the first is to dine
at an eating-house frequented by well-dressed people only; and the other is called diving,
practised by those who are either obliged or inclined to live frugally." I gave him to understand
that, provided the last was not infamous, it would suit much better with our circumstances
than the other. "Infamous!" cried he, "not at all; there are many creditable people, rich people,
ay, and fine people, that dive every day. I have seen many a pretty gentleman with a laced
waistcoat dine in that manner very comfortably for three pence halfpenny, and go afterwards
to the coffee-house, where he made a figure with the best lord in the land; but your own eyes
shall bear witness--I will go along with you to-day and introduce you."

He accordingly conducted us to a certain lane, where stopping, he bade us observe him, and
do as he did, and, walking a few paces, dived into a cellar and disappeared in an instant.
I followed his example, and descending very successfully, found myself in the middle of a cook's
shop, almost suffocated with the steams of boiled beef, and surrounded by a company of hackney
coachmen, chairmen, draymen, and a few footmen out of place or on board-wages; who sat eating
shin of beef, tripe, cow-heel, or sausages, at separate boards, covered with cloths which turned
my stomach. While I stood in amaze, undetermined whether to sit down or walk upwards again,
Strap, in his descent, missing one of the stops, tumbled headlong into this infernal ordinary,
and overturned the cook as she carried a porringer of soup to one of the guests. In her fall,
she dashed the whole mess against the legs of a drummer belonging to the foot-guards, who happened
to be in her way, and scalded him so miserably, that he started up, and danced up and down,
uttering a volley of execrations that made my hair stand on end.

While he entertained the company in this manner, with an eloquence peculiar to himself, the
cook got up, and after a hearty curse on the poor author of this mischance, who lay under the
table with a woful countenance, emptied a salt-cellar in her hand, and, stripping down the
patient's stocking, which brought the skin along with it, applied the contents to the sore.
This poultice was scarce laid on, when the drummer, who had begun to abate of his exclamations,
broke forth into such a hideous yell as made the whole company tremble, then, seizing a pewter
pint pot that stood by him, squeezed the sides of it together, as if it had been made of pliant
leather, grinding his teeth at the same time with a most horrible grin. Guessing the cause
of this violent transport, I bade the woman wash off the salt, and bathe the part with oil,
which she did, and procured him immediate ease. But here another difficulty occurred, which
was no other than the landlady's insisting on his paying for the pot he had rendered useless.
He said, he would pay for nothing but what he had eaten, and bade her be thankful for his moderation,
or else he would prosecute her for damages. Strap, foreseeing the whole affair would lie at
his door, promised to satisfy the cook, and called for a dram of gin to treat the drummer,
which entirely appeased him, and composed all animosities. After this accommodation, our landlord
and we sat down at a board, and dined upon shin of beef most deliciously; our reckoning amounting
to twopence halfpenny each, bread and small beer included.

CHAPTER XIV

We visit Strap's friend--a description of him--his advice--we go to Mr. Cringer's house--are
denied admittance--an Accident befalls Strap--his behaviour thereupon--an extraordinary adventure
occurs, in the course of which I lose all my money

In the afternoon my companion proposed to call at his friend's house, which, we were informed,
was in the neighbourhood, whither we accordingly went, and were so lucky as to find him at
home. This gentleman, who had come from Scotland three or four years before, kept a school
in town, where he taught the Latin, French, and Italian languages; but what he chiefly professed
was the pronunciation of the English tongue, after a method more speedy and uncommon than any
practised heretofore, and, indeed, if his scholars spoke like their master, the latter part
of his undertaking was certainly performed to a tittle: for although I could easily understand
every word of what I had heard hitherto since I entered England, three parts in four of his
dialect were as unintelligible to me as if he had spoken in Arabic or Irish. He was a middle-sized
man, and stooped very much, though not above the age of forty; his face was frightfully pitted
with the small-pox, and his mouth extended from ear to ear. He was dressed in a night-gown
of plaid, fastened about his middle with a sergeant's old sash, and a tie-periwig with a foretop
three inches high, in the fashion of King Charles the Second's reign.

After he had received Strap, who was related to him, very courteously, he inquired of him who
I was; and being informed, he took me by the hand, telling me he was at school with my father.
When he understood my situation, he assured me that he would do me all the service in his power,
both by his advice and otherwise, and while he spoke these words eyed me with great attention,
walking round me several times, and muttering, "Oh, dear! Oh, dear! fat a saight is here!"
I soon guessed the reason of his ejaculation, and said, "I suppose, sir, you are not pleased
with my dress." "Dress," answered he, "you may caal it fat you please in your country, but
I vow to Gad 'tis a masquerade here. No Christian will admit such a figure into his house.
Upon my conscience, I wonder the dogs did not hunt you. Did you pass through St. James's market?
Bless my eyesaight! you are like a cousin-german of an ourangoutang." I began to be a little
serious at this discourse, and asked him, if he thought I should obtain entrance to-morrow
at the house of Mr. Cringer, on whom I chiefly depended for an introduction into business?
"Mr. Cringer, Mr. Cringer," replied he, scratching his cheek, "may be a very honest gentleman--I
know nothing to the contrary; but is your sole dependence upon him? Who recommended you to
him?" I pulled out Mr. Crab's letter, and told him the foundation of my hopes, at which he
stared at me, and repeated "Oh dear! Oh dear!" I began to conceive bad omens from this behaviour
of his, and begged he would assist me with his advice, which he promised to give very frankly;
and as a specimen, directed us to a periwig warehouse in the neighbourhood, in order to be
accommodated; laying strong injunctions on me not to appear before Mr. Cringer till I had parted
with my carroty locks, which, he said, were sufficient to beget an antipathy against me in
all mankind. And as we were going to pursue this advice, he called me back and bade me be sure
to deliver my letter into Mr. Cringer's own hand.

As we walked along, Strap triumphed greatly in our reception with his friend, who, it seems,
had assured him he would in a day or two provide for him with some good master; "I and now,"
says he, "I you will see how I will fit you with a wig. There's ne'er a barber in London (and
that's a bold word) can palm a rotten caul, or a pennyweight of dead hair, upon me." And, indeed,
this zealous adherent did wrangle so long with the merchant, that he was desired twenty times
to leave the shop, and see if he could get one cheaper elsewhere. At length I made choice (if
a good handsome bob), for which I paid ten shillings, and returned to our lodging, where Strap
in a moment rid me of that hair which had given the schoolmaster so much offence.

We got up next day betimes, having been informed that Mr. Cringer gave audience by candle-light
to all his dependents, he himself being obliged to attend the levee of my Lord Terrier at break
of day, because his lordship made one at the minister's between eight and nine o'clock. When
we came to Mr. Cringer's door, Strap, to give me all instance of his politeness, ran to the
knocker, which he employed so loud and so long, that he alarmed the whole street; and a window
opening in the second story of the next house, a vessel was discharged upon him so successfully,
that the poor barber was wet to the skin, while I, being luckily at some distance, escaped
the unsavoury deluge. In the meantime, a footman opening the door, and seeing nobody in the
street but us, asked, with a stern countenance, if it was I who made such a noise, and what
I wanted. I told him I had business with his master, whom I desired to see. Upon which he slapped
the door in my face, telling me I must learn better manners before I could have access to his
master. Vexed at this disappointment, I turned my resentment against Strap, whom I sharply
reprimanded for his presumption; but he, not in the least regarding what I said, wrung the
wet out of his periwig, and lifting up a large stone, flung it with such force against the
street door of that house from whence he had been bedewed, that the lock giving way, it flew
wide open, and he took to his heels, leaving me to follow him as I could. Indeed, there was
no time for deliberation; I therefore pursued him with all the speed I could exert, until we
found ourselves about the dawn in a street we did not know. Here, as we wandered along gaping
about, a very decent sort of a man, passing by me, stopped of a sudden and took up something,
which having examined, he turned and presented to me with these words: "Sir, you have dropped
half-a-crown." I was not a little surprised at this instance of honesty, and told him it did
not belong to me; but he bade me recollect, and see if all my money was safe; upon which I
pulled out my purse, for I had bought one since I came to town, and, reckoning my money in
my hand, which was now reduced to five guineas seven shillings and twopence, assured him I
had lost nothing. "Well, then, says he, so much the better; this is a godsend, and as you two
were present when I picked it up, you are entitled to equal shares with me." I was astonished
at these words, and looked upon this person to be a prodigy of integrity, but absolutely refused
to take any part of the sum. "Come, gentlemen," said he, "you are too modest--I see you are
strangers, but you shall give me leave to treat you with a whet this cold raw morning." I would
have declined the invitation, but Strap whispered to me that the gentleman would be affronted,
and I complied. "Where shall we go?" said the stranger; "I am quite ignorant of this part of
the town." I informed him that we were in the same situation; upon which he proposed to go
into the first public-house we should find open; and as we walked together, he began in this
manner: "I find by your tongues you are from Scotland, gentlemen; my grandmother by the father's
side was of your country, and I am so prepossessed in its favour, that I never meet a Scotchman
but my heart warms. The Scots are very brave people. There is scarce a great family in the
kingdom that cannot boast of some exploits performed by its ancestors many hundred years ago.
There's your Douglasses, Gordons, Campbells, Hamiltons. We have no such ancient families here
in England. Then you are all very well educated. I have known a pedlar talk in Greek and Hebrew
as well as if they had been his mother-tongue. And for honesty--I once had a servant, his name
was Gregor Macgregor, I would have trusted him with untold gold."

This eulogium of my native country gained my affections so strongly, that I believe I could
have gone to death to serve the author; and Strap's eyes swam in tears. At length, as we passed
through a dark narrow lane, we perceived a public-house, which we entered, and found a man
sitting by the fire, smoking a pipe, with a pint of purl before him. Our new acquaintance asked
us if ever we had drunk egg-flip? To which question we answering in the negative, he assured
us of a regale, and ordered a quart to be prepared, calling for pipes and tobacco at the same
time. We found this composition very palateable, and drank heartily; the conversation, which
was introduced by the gentleman, turning upon the snares that young inexperienced people are
exposed to in this metropolis. He described a thousand cheats that are daily practised upon
the ignorant and unwary, and warned us of them with so much good nature and concern, that we
blessed the opportunity which threw us in his way. After we had put the can about for some
time, our new friend began to yawn, telling us he had been up all night with a sick person;
and proposed we should have recourse to some diversion to keep him awake. "Suppose," said he,
"we should take a hand at whist for pastime. But let me see: that won't do, there's only three
of us; and I cannot play at any other game. The truth is, I seldom or never play, but out of
complaisance, or at such a time as this, when I am in danger of falling asleep."

Although I was not much inclined to gaming, I felt no aversion to pass an hour or two at cards
with a friend; and knowing that Strap understood as much of the matter as I, made no scruple
of saying, "I wish we could find a fourth hand." While we were in this perplexity the person
whom we found in the house at our entrance, overhearing our discourse, took the pipe from his
mouth very gravely, and accosted us thus: "Gentlemen, my pipe is out, you see," shaking the
ashes into the fire, "and rather than you should be balked, I don't care if I take a hand with
you for a trifle--but remember I won't play for anything of consequence." We accepted his proffer
with pleasure. Having cut for partners, it fell to my lot to play with him against our friend
and Strap, for threepence a game. We were so successful, that in a short time I was half-a-crown
gainer; when the gentleman whom we had met in the street observing he had no luck to-day, proposed
to leave off, or change partners. By this time I was inflamed with my good fortune and the
expectation of improving it, as I perceived the two strangers played but indifferently; therefore
I voted for giving him his revenge: and cutting again, Strap and I, to our mutual satisfaction,
happened to be partners. My good fortune attended me still, and in less than an hour we had
got thirty shillings of their money, for as they lost they grew the keener, and doubled stakes
every time. At last the inconstant goddess began to veer about, and we were very soon stripped
of all our gains, and about forty shillings of our own money. This loss mortified me extremely,
and had a visible effect on the muscles of Strap's face, which lengthened apace; but our antagonists
perceiving our condition, kindly permitted us to retrieve our loss, and console ourselves with
a new acquisition. Then my companion wisely suggested it was time to be gone; upon which the
person who had joined us in the house began to curse the cards, and muttered that we were indebted
to fortune only for what we had got, no part of our success being owing to our good play. This
insinuation nettled me so much that I challenged him to a game at piquet for a crown: and he
was with difficulty persuaded to accept the invitation. This contest ended in less than an
hour to my inexpressible affliction, who lost every shilling of my own money, Strip absolutely
refusing to supply me with a sixpence.

The gentleman at whose request we had come in, perceiving by my disconsolate looks the situation
of my heart, which well nigh burst with grief and resentment, when the other stranger got up,
and went away with my money, began in this manner:--"I am truly afflicted at your bad luck,
and would willingly repair it, were it in my power. But what in the name of goodness could
provoke you to tempt your fate so long? It is always a maxim with gamesters to pursue success
as far us it will go, and to stop whenever fortune shifts about. You are a young man, and your
passions are too impetuous; you must learn to govern them better. However, there is no experience
like that which is bought; you will be the better for this the longest day you have to live.
As for the fellow who has got your money, I don't half like him. Did not you see me tip you
the wink to leave off in time?" I answered, "No." "No," continued he; "you was too eager to
mind anything but the game. But, harkee," said he in a whisper, "are you satisfied of that
young man's honesty? His looks are a little suspicious--but I may be mistaken; he made a great
many grimaces while he stood behind you, this is a very wicked town." I told him I was very
well convinced of my comrade's integrity and, that the grimaces he mentioned were doubtless
owing to his anxiety of my loss. "Oh ho! if that be the case, I ask his pardon. Landlord, see
what's to pay." The reckoning amounted to eighteenpence, which, having discharged, the gentleman
shook us both by the hand, and, saying he should be very glad to see us again, departed.

CHAPTER XV

Strap moralises--presents his purse to me--we inform our landlord of our misfortune--he unravels
the mystery--I present myself to Cringer--he recommends and turns me over to Mr. Staytape--I
become acquainted with a fellow dependent, who explains the character of Cringer and Staytape--and
informs me of the method to be pursued at the Navy Office and Surgeons' Hall--Strap is employed

In our way to our lodging, after a profound silence on both sides, Strap, with a hideous groan,
observed that we had brought our pigs to a fine market. To this observation I made no reply,
and he went on: "God send us well out of this place; we have not been in London eight and forty
hours, and I believe we have met with eight and forty thousand misfortunes. We have been jeered,
reproached, buffeted, and at last stript of our money; and I suppose by and bye we shall be
stript of our skins. Indeed as to the money part of it, that was owing to our own folly.--Solomon
says, 'Bray a fool in a mortar, and he will never be wise.' Ah! God help us, an ounce of prudence
is worth a pound of gold." This was no time for him to tamper with my disposition, already
mad with my loss, and inflamed with resentment against him for having refused me a little money
to attempt to retrieve it. I therefore turned towards him with a stern countenance, and asked,
who he called fool? Being altogether unaccustomed to such looks from me, he stood still, and
stared in my face for some time; then, with some confusion, uttered, "Fool! I called nobody
fool but myself; I am sure I am the greatest fool of the two, for being so much concerned at
other people's misfortunes; but 'Nemo omnibus horis sapit'--that's all, that's all." Upon which
a silence ensued, which brought us to our lodging, where I threw myself upon the bed in an
agony of despair, resolved to perish rather than apply to my companion, or any other body,
for relief; but Strap, who knew my temper, and whose heart bled within him for my distress,
after some pause came to the bedside, and, putting a leathern purse into my hand, burst into
tears, crying, "I know what you think, but I scorn your thought. There's all I have in the
world, take it, and I'll perhaps get more for you before that be done. If not, I'll beg for
you, steal for you, go through the wide world with you, and stay with you; for though I be
a poor cobbler's son, I am no scout." I was so much touched with the generous passion of this
poor creature, that I could not refrain from weeping also, and we mingled our tears together
for some time. Upon examining the purse, I found in it two half-guineas and half-a-crown, which
I would have returned to him, saying, he knew better than I how to manage it, but he, absolutely
refused my proposal and told me it was more reasonable and decent that he should depend upon
me, who was a gentleman, than that I should be controlled by him.

After this friendly contest was over, and our minds more at ease, we informed our landlord
of what had happened to us, taking care to conceal the extremity to which we were reduced.
He no sooner heard the story, than he assured us we had been grievously imposed upon by a couple
of sharpers, who were associates; and that this polite, honest, friendly, humane person, who
had treated us so civilly, was no other than a rascally money-dropper, we made it his business
to decoy strangers in that manner to one of his own haunts, where an accomplice or two were
always waiting to assist in pillaging the prey he had run down. Here the good man recounted
a great many stories of people who has been seduced, cheated, pilfered, beat--nay, even murdered
by such villains. I was confounded at the artifice and wickedness of mankind; and Strap, lifting
up his eyes and hands to heaven, prayed that God would deliver him from such scenes of iniquity,
for surely the devil had set up his throne in London. Our landlord being curious to know what
reception we had met with at Mr. Cringer's, we acquainted him with the particulars, at which
he shook his head, and told us we had not gone the right way to work; that there was nothing
to be done with a member of parliament without a bribe; that the servant was commonly infected
with the master's disease, and expected to be paid for his work, as well as his betters. He
therefore advised me to give the footman a shilling the next time I should desire admittance
to my patron, or else I should scarce find an opportunity to deliver my letter. Accordingly,
next morning, when the door was opened, I slipped a shilling into his hand, and told him I
had a letter for his master. I found the good effect of my liberality; for the fellow let me
in immediately, and, taking the letter out of my hand, desired me to wait in a kind of passage
for an answer. In this place I continued standing for three-quarters-of-an-hour, during which
time I saw a great many young fellows whom I formerly knew in Scotland pass and repass, with
an air of familiarity, in their way to and from the audience-chamber; while I was fain to stand
shivering in the cold, and turn my back to them that they might not perceive the lowness of
my condition. At length, Mr. Cringer came out to see a young gentleman to the door, who was
no other than Squire Gawky, dressed in a very gay suit of clothes; at parting Mr. Cringer shook
him by the hand and told him he hoped to have the pleasure of his company at dinner. Then turning
about towards me, asked what were my commands? When he understood I was the person who had
brought the letter from Mr. Crab, he affected to recollect my name, which, however, he pretended
he could not do till he had consulted the letter again; to save him the trouble, I told him
my name was Random. Upon which he went on, "Ay, ay, Random, Random, Random--I think I remember
the name:" and very well he might, for this very individual, Mr. Cringer, had many a time rode
before my grandfather's cloak-bag, in quality of a footman. "Well," says he, "you propose to
go on board a man-of-war as surgeon's mate." I replied by a low bow. "I believe it will be
a difficult matter," continued he, "to procure a warrant, there being already such a swarm
of Scotch surgeons at the Navy Office, in expectation of the next vacancy, that the commissioners
are afraid of being torn to pieces, and have actually applied for a guard to protect them.
However, some ships will soon be put in commission, and then we shall see what's to be done."
So saying, he left me, exceedingly mortified at the different reception Mr. Gawky and I had
met with from this upstart, proud, mean member, who, I imagined, would have been glad of an
opportunity to be grateful for the obligations he owed to my family.

At my return, I was surprised with the agreeable news of Strap's being employed, on the recommendation
of his friend, the schoolmaster, by a periwig-maker in the neighbourhood, who allowed him five
shillings per week besides bed and board. I continued to dance attendance every other morning
at the levee of Mr. Cringer, during a fortnight; in which time I became acquainted with a young
fellow of my own country and profession, who also depended on the member's interest, but was
treated with much more respect than I, both by the servants and master, and often admitted
into a parlour, where there was a fire for the convenience of the better sort of those who
waited for him. Thither I was never permitted to penetrate, on account of my appearance, which
was not at all fashionable; but was obliged to stand blowing my fingers in a cold lobby, and
take the first opportunity of Mr. Cringer's going to the door to speak with him.

One day, while I enjoyed this occasion a person was introduced, whom Mr. Cringer no sooner
saw, than, running towards him, he saluted him with a low bow to the very ground, and afterwards
shaking him by the hand with great heartiness and familiarity, called him his good friend,
and asked very kindly after Mrs. Staytape and the young ladies; then, after a whisper, which
continued some minutes, wherein I overheard the word 'honour' repeated several times with great
emphasis, Mr. Cringer introduced me to this gentleman, as to a person whose advice and assistance
I might depend upon; and having given me his direction, followed me to the door, where he told
me I need not give myself the trouble to call at his house any more, for Mr. Staytape would
do my business. At that instant my fellow-dependent, coming out after me, overheard the discourse
of Mr. Cringer, and, making up to me in the street, accosted me very civilly: this address
I looked upon as no small honour, considering the figure he made, for he was dressed in a blue
frock with a button, a green silk waistcoat, trimmed with gold, black velvet breeches, white
silk stockings, silver buckles, a gold-laced hat, a spencer-wig, and a silver-hilted hanger,
with a fine clouded can in his hand. "I perceive," says he, "you are but lately come from Scotland;
pray what may your business with Mr. Cringer be? I suppose it is no secret and I may possibly
give you some advice that will be serviceable, for I have been surgeon's second mate on board
of a seventy-gun ship, and consequently know a good deal of the world."

I made no scruple to disclose my situation, which, when he had learned, he shook his head,
and told me he had been pretty much, in the same circumstances about a year ago: that he had
relied on Cringer's promises, until his money (which was considerable) as well as his credit,
was quite exhausted; and when he wrote to his relations for a fresh supply, instead of money
he received nothing but reproaches, and the epithets of idle, debauched fellow. That after
he had waited at the Navy Office many months for a warrant to no purpose, he was fain to pawn
some of his clothes, which raised a small sum wherewith he bribed the secretary, who soon procured
a warrant for him, notwithstanding he had affirmed the same day, that there was not one vacancy.
That he had gone on board, where he remained nine months, at the end of which the ship was
put out of commission, and he said the company were to be paid off in Broad Street the very
next day. That relations being reconciled to him, had charged him to pay his devoirs regularly
to Mr. Cringer, who had informed them by letter that his interest alone had procured the warrant;
in obedience to which command he came to his levee every morning; as I saw, though he looked
upon him to be a very pitiful scoundrel. In conclusion, he asked me if I had yet passed at
Surgeons' Hall? To which question I answered, I did not so much as know it was necessary. "Necessary:"
cried he, "Oh then I find I must instruct you: come along with me, and I'll give you information
about that matter." So Saying, he carried me into an ale-house, where I called for some beer,
and bread and cheese, on which we breakfasted. While we sat in this place, he told me I must
first go to the Navy Office, and write to the Board, desiring them to order a letter for me
to Surgeon's Hall, that I might be examined, touching my skill in surgery. That the surgeons,
after having examined me, would give me my qualification sealed up in form of a letter directed
to the commissioners, which qualification I must deliver to the secretary of the Board, who
would open it in my presence, and read the contents; after which I must employ my interest
to be provided for as soon as possible. That the expense of his qualification for second mate
of a third-rate, amounted to thirteen shillings, exclusive of the warrant, which cost him half-a-guinea
and half-a-crown, besides a present to the secretary, which consisted of a three-pound twelve
piece. This calculation was like a thunderbolt to me, whose whole fortune did not amount to
twelve shillings. I accordingly made him acquainted with this part of my distress, after having
thanked him for his information and advice. He condoled me on this occasion; but bade me be
of good cheer, for he had conceived a friendship for me, and would make all things easy. He
was ran out at present, but to-morrow or next day, he was certain of receiving a considerable
sum; of which he would lend me what would be sufficient to answer my exigencies. This frank
declaration pleased me so much, that I pulled out my purse, and emptied it before him, begging
him to take what he pleased for pocket-expense, until he should receive his own money. With
a good deal of pressing, he was prevailed upon to take five shillings telling me that he might
have what money he wanted at any time for the trouble of going into the city; but as he had
met with me, he would defer his going thither till tomorrow, when I should go along with him,
and he would put me in the way of acting for myself, without a servile dependence on that rascal
Cringer, much less on the tailor to whom he heard him turn me over. "How!" cried I, "is Mr.
Staytape a tailor." "No less, I assure you," answered he, "and, I confess, more likely to serve
you than the member; for, provided you can entertain him with politics and conundrums, you
may have credit with him for as many and as rich clothes as you please." I told him, I was
utterly ignorant of both, and so incensed at Cringer's usage, that I would never set foot within
his door again.

After a good deal more conversation, my new acquaintance and I parted, having made an appointment
to meet next day at the same place; in order to set out for the city. I went immediately to
Strap and related everything which had happened, but he did not at all approve of my being
so forward to lend money to a stranger, especially as we had already been so much imposed upon
by appearances. "However," said he, "if you are sure he is a Scotchman, I believe you are safe."

CHAPTER XVI

My new acquaintance breaks an appointment--I proceed, by myself, to the Navy Office--address
me to a person there, who assists me with advice--write to the Board, they grant me a letter
to the Surgeons at the Hall--am informed of the beau's name and character--find him--he makes
me his confidant in an amour--desires me to pawn my linen for his occasions--recover what I
lent him--some curious observations on Strap on that occasion--his vanity.

In the morning I rose and went to the place of rendezvous, where I waited two hours in vain,
and was so exasperated against him for breaking his appointment, that I set out for the city
by myself, in hope of finding the villain, and being revenged on him for his breach of promise.
At length I found myself at the Navy Office, which I entered, and saw crowds of young fellows
walking below, many of whom made no better appearance than myself. I consulted the physiognomy
of each, and at last made up to one whose countenance I liked, and asked, if he could instruct
me in the form of the letter which was to be sent to the Board to obtain an order for examination?
He answered me in broad Scotch, that he would show me the copy of what he had writ for himself,
by direction of another who know the form, and accordingly pulled it out of his pocket for
my perusal; and told me that, if I was expeditious, I might send it into the Board before dinner,
for they did no business in the afternoon. He then went with me to coffee-house hard by, where
I wrote the letter, which was immediately delivered to the messenger, who told me I might expect
an order to-morrow about the same time.

Having transacted this piece of business, my mind was a good deal composed; and as I had met
with so much civility from the stranger, I desired further acquaintance with him, fully resolved,
however, not to be deceived by him so much to my prejudice as I had been by the beau. He agreed
to dine with me at the cook's shop which I frequented; and on our way thither carried me to
'Change, where I was in hopes of finding Mr. Jackson (for that was the name of the person who
had broke his appointment), I sought him there to no purpose, and on our way towards the other
end of the town imparted to my companion his behaviour towards me; upon which he gave me to
understand, that he was no stranger to the name of Bean Jackson (so he was called at the Navy
Office), although he did not know him personally; that he had the character of a good-natured
careless fellow, who made no scruple of borrowing from any that would lend; that most people
who knew him believed he had a good principle at bottom, but his extravagance was such, he
would probably never have it in his power to manifest the honesty of his intention. This made
me sweat for my five shillings, which I nevertheless did not altogether despair of recovering,
provided I could find out the debtor.

This young man likewise added another circumstance of Squire Jackson's history, which was,
that being destitute of all means to equip himself for sea, when he received his last warrant,
he had been recommended to a person who lent him a little money, after he had signed a will
entitling that person to lift his wages when they should become due, as also to inherit his
effects in case of his death. That he was still under the tutorage and direction of that gentleman,
who advanced him small sums from time to time upon this security, at the rate of fifty per
cent. But at present his credit was very low, because his funds would do little more than pay
what he had already received, this moderate interest included. After the stranger (whose name
was Thompson) had entertained me with this account of Jackson, he informed me that he himself
had passed for third mate of a third-rate, about four months ago; since which time he had constantly
attended at the Navy Office, in hope of a warrant, having been assured from the beginning,
both by a Scotch member, and one of the commissioners to whom the member recommended him, that
he should be put into the first vacancy; notwithstanding which promise, he had the mortification
to see six or seven appointed in the same station almost every week--that now being utterly
impoverished, his sole hope consisted in the promise of a friend lately come to town, to lend
him a small matter, for a present to the secretary; without which he was persuaded he might
wait a thousand years to no purpose. I conceived a mighty liking for this young fellow, which
(I believe) proceeded from the similitude of our fortunes. We spent the whole day together;
and as he lived at Wapping I desired him to take a share of my bed.

Next day we returned to the Navy Office, where, after being called before the Board, and questioned
about the place of my nativity and education, they ordered a letter to be made out for me,
which, upon paying half-a-crown to the clerk, I received, and delivered into the hands of the
clerk at Surgeons' Hall, together with a shilling for his trouble in registering my name. By
this time my whole stock was diminished to two shillings, and I saw not the least prospect
of relief, even for present subsistence, much less to enable me to pay the fees at Surgeons'
Hall for my examination, which would come on in a fortnight. In this state of perplexity, I
consulted Strap, who assured me he would pawn everything he had in the world, even to his razors,
before I should want: but this expedient I absolutely rejected, telling him, I would a thousand
times rather list for a soldier, of which I had some thoughts, than be any longer a burden
to him. At the word soldier, he grew pale as death, and begged on his knees I would think no
more of that scheme. "God preserve us all in our right wits!" cried he, "would you turn soldier,
and perhaps be sent abroad against the Spaniards, where you must stand and be shot at like
a woodcock? Heaven keep cold lead out of my carcase, and let me die in a bed like a Christian,
as all my forefathers have done. What signifies all earthly riches and honour, if one enjoys
not content? and, hereafter, there is no respect of persons. Better be a poor honest barber
with a good conscience, and time to repent of my sins upon my death-bed, than be cut off (God
bless us!) by a musket-shot, as it were in the very flower of one's age, in the pursuit of
riches and fame. What signify riches, my dear friend? do they not make unto themselves wings
and fly away? as the wise man saith. I could also mention many other sayings in contempt of
riches, both from the Bible and other good books; but I know you are not very fond of those
things, I shall only assure you, that if you take on to be a soldier, I will do the same; and
then if we should both be slain, you will not only have your own blood to answer for, but mine
also: and peradventure the lives of all those whom we shall kill in battle. Therefore I pray
you, consider whether you will sit down contented with small things and share the fruits of
my industry in peace, till Providence shall send better tidings; or, by your despair, plunge
both our souls and bodies into everlasting perdition, which God of his infinite mercy forbid!"
I could not help smiling at this harangue, which was delivered with great earnestness, the
tears standing in his eyes all the time, and promised to do nothing of that sort without his
consent and concurrence. He was much comforted with this declaration; and told me in a few
days he should receive a week's wages, which should be at my service, but advised me in the
meantime to go in quest of Jackson, and recover, if possible, what he had borrowed of me. I
accordingly trudged about from one end of the town to the other, for several days, without
being able to learn anything certain concerning him: and, one day being extremely hungry, and
allured by the steams that regaled my nostrils from a boiling cellar, I went down with an intention
to gratify my appetite with a twopennyworth of beef; when to my no small surprise found Mr.
Jackson sitting at dinner with a footman. He no sooner perceived me than he got up and shook
me by the hands saying, he was glad to see me, for he intended to have called at my lodgings
in the afternoon. I was so well pleased at this rencounter and the apologies he made for not
keeping his appointment, that I forgot my resentment, and sat down to dinner, with the happy
expectation of not only recovering my own money before we should part, but also of reaping
the benefit of his promise to lend me wherewithal to pass examination; and this hope my sanguine
complexion suggested, though the account Thompson gave me of him ought to have moderated my
expectation.

When we had feasted sumptuously, he took his leave of the footman, and adjourned with me to
an ale-house hard by, where, after shaking me by the hand again, he began thus: "I suppose
you think me a sad dog, Mr. Random, and I do confess that appearances are against me. But I
dare say you will forgive me when I tell you, my not coming at the time appointed was owing
to a peremptory message I received from a certain lady, whom, harkee! (but this is a great
secret) I am to marry very soon. You think this strange, perhaps, but it is not less true for
all that--a five thousand pounder, I'll assure you, besides expectations. For my own part,
devil take me if I know what any woman can see engaging about me--but a whim, you know--and
then one would not balk one's good fortune. You saw that footman who dined with us--he's one
of the honestest fellows that ever wore livery. You must know it was by his means I was introduced
to her, for he made me first acquainted with her woman, who is his mistress--ay, many a crown
has he and his sweetheart had of my money--but what of that? things are now brought to a bearing.
I have--(come a little this way) I have proposed marriage, and the day is fixed--she's a charming
creature, and writes like an angel! She can repeat all the English tragedies as well as ever
a player in Drury Lane!-and, indeed, is so fond of plays, that to be near the stage she has
taken lodgings in a court hard by the theatre; but you shall see--you shall see--here's the
last letter she sent me." With these words, he put it into my hand, and I read (to the best
of my remembrance) as follows:

    'Dear Creeten--As you are the animable hopjack of my
    contemplayshins, your aydear is infernally skimming before
    my keymerycal fansee, when Murfy sends his puppies to the heys
    of slipping mortals; and when Febus shines from his merry dying
    throne; whereupon I shall canseif old time has lost his
    pinners, as also cubit his harrows, until thou enjoy sweet
    propose in the loafseek harms of thy very faithfool to commend,
                     Clayrender
          Wingar Yard, Drury Lane, January 12th.'

While I was reading, he seemed to be in an ecstasy, rubbing his hands, and bursting out into
fits of laughter; at last he caught hold of my hand, and squeezing it, cried, "There--a style
for you! What do you think of this billet-doux?" I answered, "It might be ablime for aught
I knew, for it was altogether above my comprehension." "Oh, ho!" said he, "I believe it is--both
tender and sublime; she's a divine creature! and so doats upon me! Let me see--what shall I
do with this money, when I have once got it into my hands? In the first place, I shall do for
you. I'm a man of few words---but say no more that's determined; whether would you advise me,
to purchase some post, by which I may rise in the state, or lay out my wife's fortune in land,
and retire to the country at once?" I gave my opinion without hesitation, that he could not
do better than buy an estate and improve; especially since he had already seen so much of the
world. Then I launched out into the praises of a country life, as described by the poets whose
works I had read. He seemed to relish my advice, but withal told me, that although he had seen
a great deal of the world both at land and sea, having cruised three whole months in the Channel,
yet he should not be satisfied until he had visited France, which he proposed to do before
he should settle; and to carry his wife along with him. I had nothing to object to his proposal;
and asked how soon he hoped to be happy. "As to that," he replied, "nothing obstructs my happiness
but the want of a little ready cash; for you must know, my friend in the city has gone out
of town for a week or two, but I unfortunately missed my pay at Broad Street, by being detained
too long by the dear charmer--but there will be a recall at Chatham next week, whither the
ship's books are sent, and I have commissioned a friend in that place to receive the money."
"If that be all," said I, "there's no great harm in deferring your marriage a few days." "Yes,
faith, but there is," said he; "you don't know how many rivals I have, who would take all advantages
against me. I would not balk the impatience of her passion for the world--the least appearance
of coldness or indifference would ruin all; and such offers don't occur every day."

I acquiesced in this observation, and inquired how he intended to proceed. At this question
he rubbed his chin, and said, "Why, truly, I must be obliged to some friend or other--do you
know nobody that would lend me a small sum for a day or two?" I assured him, I was such an
utter stranger in London, that I did not believe I could borrow a guinea if my life depended
upon it. "No!" said he, "that's hard--that's hard! I wish I had anything to pawn--upon my soul,
you have got excellent linen (feeling the sleeve of my shirt); how many shirts of that kind
have you got?" I answered, "Six ruffled, and six plain." At which he testified great surprise,
and declared that no gentleman ought to have more than four. "How many d'ye think I have got?"
continued he; "but this and another, as I hope to be saved! and I dare say we shall be able
to raise a good sum out of your superfluity: let me see--let me see--each of these shirts is
worth sixteen shillings at a moderate computation--now, suppose we pawn them for half-price--eight
times eight is sixty-four, that's three pounds four; that will do--give me your hand." "Softly,
softly, Mr. Jackson," said I; "don't dispose of my linen without my consent: first pay me the
crown you owe me, and then we shall talk of other matters." He protested that he had not above
one shilling in his pocket, but that he would pay me out of the first of the money raised from
the shirts. This piece of assurance incensed me so much that I swore I would not part with
him until I had received satisfaction for what I had lent him; and as for the shirts, I would
not pawn one of them to save him from the gallows.

At this expression he laughed aloud, and then complained it was very hard that I should refuse
him a trifle that would infallibly enable him not only to make his own fortune but mine also.
"You talk of pawning my shirts," said I; "suppose you should sell this hanger, Mr. Jackson.
I believe it would fetch a good round sum." "No, hang it!" said he, "I can't appear decently
without my hanger, lest it should go." However, seeing me inflexible with regard to my linen,
he at length unbuckled his hanger, and, showing me the three blue balls, desired me to carry
it thither and pawn it for two guineas. This office I would by no means have performed, had
I seen any likelihood of having my money otherwise; but not willing, out of a piece of false
delicacy, to neglect the only opportunity I should perhaps ever have, I ventured into a pawnbroker's
shop, where I demanded two guineas on the pledge, in the name of Thomas Williams. "Two guineas!"
said the pawnbroker, looking at the hanger; "this piece of goods has been here several times
before for thirty shillings: however, since I believe the gentleman to whom it belongs will
redeem it, he shall have what he wants; and accordingly he paid me the money, which I carried
to the house where I had left Jackson; and, calling for change, counted out to him seven and
thirty shillings, reserving the other five for myself." After looking at the money some time,
he said, "Well! it don't signify--this won't do my business; so you may as well take half-a-guinea,
or a whole one, as the five shillings you have kept." I thanked him kindly, but refused to
accept of any more than was my due, because I had no prospect of repaying it. Upon which declaration,
he stared in my face, and told me, I was excessively raw or I would not talk in that manner.
"Upon my word," cried he, "I have a very bad opinion of a young fellow who won't borrow of
his friend when he is in want--'tis the sign of a sneaking spirit. Come, come, Random, give
me back the five shillings, and take this half-guinea, and if ever you are able to pay me,
I believe you will: if not, I shall never ask it."

When I reflected upon my present necessity, I suffered myself to be persuaded, and after making
my acknowledgments to Mr. Jackson, who offered to treat me with a play, I returned to my lodgings
with a much better opinion of this gentleman than I had in the morning; and at night imparted
my day's adventure to Strap, who rejoiced at my good luck, saying, "I told you if he was a
Scotchman you was safe enough--and who knows but this marriage may make us all. You have heard,
I suppose, as how a countryman of ours, a journeyman baker, ran away with a great lady of this
town, and now keeps his coach. I say nothing; but yesterday morning as I was shaving a gentleman
at his own house, there was a young lady in the room, and she threw so many sheep's eyes at
a certain person whom I shall not name, that my heart went knock, knock, knock, like a fulling
mill, and my hand sh-sh-shook so much that I sliced a piece of skin off the gentleman's nose;
whereby he uttered a deadly oath, and was going to horsewhip me, when she prevented him, and
made my peace. Is not a journeyman barber as good as a journeyman baker? The only difference
is, the baker uses flour for the belly, and the barber rises it for the head: and as the head
is a more noble member than the belly, so is a barber more noble than a baker--for what's the
belly without the head? Besides, I am told, he could neither read nor write; now you know I
can do both, and moreover, speak Latin--but I will say no more, for I despise vanity--nothing
is more vain than vanity." With these words, he pulled out of his pocket a wax-candle`s end,
which he applied to his forehead; and upon examination, I found had combed his own hair over
the toupee of his wig, and was, indeed, in his whole dress, become a very smart shaver. I congratulated
him on his prospect with a satirical smile, which he understood very well; and, shaking his
head, observed, I had very little faith, but the truth would come to light in spite of my incredulity.

CHAPTER XVII

I go to Surgeons' Hall, when I meet Mr. Jackson-am examined--a fierce dispute arises between
two of the examiners--Jackson disguises himself to attract respect--irises himself to attract
respect--is detected--in hazard of being sent to Bridewell--he treats us at a Tavern--carries
us to a Night-house--A troublesome adventure there--we are committed to the Round-house--carried
before a Justice--his behaviour

With the assistance of this faithful adherent, who gave me almost all the money he earned,
I preserved my half-guinea entire till the day of examination, when I went with a quaking heart
to Surgeons' Hall, in order to undergo that ceremony. Among a crowd of young fellows who walked
in the outward hall, I perceived Mr. Jackson, to whom I immediately went up; and, inquiring
into the state of his love affair, understood it was still undetermined, by reason of his friend's
absence, and the delay of the recall at Chatham, which put it out of his power to bring it
to a conclusion. I then asked what his business was in this place; he replied, he was resolved
to have two strings to his bow, that in case the one failed, he might use the other; and, with
this view, he was to pass that night for a higher qualification. At that instant, a young fellow
came out from the place of examination, with a pale countenance, his lip quivering, and his
looks as wild as if he had seen a ghost. He no sooner appeared, than we all flocked about him
with the utmost eagerness to know what reception he had met with; which, after some pause,
he described, recounting all the questions they had asked, with the answers he made. In this
manner we obliged no less than twelve to recapitulate, which, now the danger was past, they
did with pleasure, before it fell to my lot: at length the beadle called my name, with a voice
that made me tremble. However, there was no remedy. I was conducted into a large hall, where
I saw about a dozen of grim faces sitting at a long table: one of whom bade me come forward,
in such an imperious tone, that I was actually for a minute or two bereft of my senses. The
first question he put to me was, "Where was you born?" To which I answered, "In Scotland."
"In Scotland," said he; "I know that very well--we have scarce any other countrymen to examine
here--you Scotchmen have overspread us of late as the locusts did Egypt. I ask you in what
part of Scotland was you born?" I named the place of my nativity, which he had never heard
of; he then proceeded to interrogate me about my age, the town where I served my time, with
the term of my apprenticeship; and when I informed him that I served three years only, he fell
into a violent passion, swore it was a shame and a scandal to send such raw boys into the world
as surgeons; that it was great presumption in me, and all affront upon the English, to pretend
sufficient skill in my business, having served so short a time, when every apprentice in England
was bound seven years at least: that my friends would have done better if they had made me
a weaver or shoemaker; but their pride would have me a gentleman, he supposed, at any rate,
and their poverty could not afford the necessary education. This exordium did not at all contribute
to the recovery of my spirits; but on the contrary, reduced me to such a situation that I was
scarcely able to stand; which being perceived by a plump gentleman who sat opposite to me with
a skull before him, he said, Mr. Snarler was too severe upon the young man; and, turning towards
me, told me I need not be afraid, for nobody would do me any harm: then, bidding me take time
to recollect myself, he examined me, touching the operation of the trepan, and was very well
satisfied with my answers. The next person who questioned me was a wag, who began by asking
if I had ever seen amputation performed; and I replying in the affirmative, he shook his head
and said, "What! upon a dead subject, I suppose?" "If," continued he, "during an engagement
at sea, a man should be brought to you with his head shot off, how would you behave?" After
some hesitation, I owned such a case had never come under my observation, neither did I remember
to have seen any method of care proposed for such an accident, in any of the systems of surgery
I had perused.

Whether it was owing to the simplicity of my answer, or the archness of the question, I know
not, but every member at the board deigned to smile, except Mr. Snarler, who seemed to have
very little of the 'animal risible' in his constitution. The facetious member, encouraged by
the success of his last joke, went on thus: "Suppose you was called to a patient of a plethoric
habit, who has been bruised by a fall, what would you do?" I answered, "I would bleed him immediately."
"What!" said he, "before you had tied up his arm?" But this stroke of wit not answering his
expectation, he desired me to advance to the gentleman who sat next him; and who, with a pert
air, asked, what method of cure I would follow in wounds of the intestines. I repeated the
method of care as it is prescribed by the best chirurgical writers, which he heard to an end,
and then said with a supercilious smile, "So you think with such treatment the patient might
recover?" I told him I saw nothing to make me think otherwise. "That may be," resumed he; "I
won't answer for your foresight, but did you ever know a case of this kind succeed?" I acknowledged
I did not, and was about to tell him I had never seen a wounded intestine; but he stopt me,
by saying, with some precipitation, "Nor never will! I affirm that all wounds of the intestines,
whether great or small, are mortal." "Pardon me, brother," says the fat gentleman, "there is
very good authority--" Here he was interrupted by the other with--"Sir, excuse me, I despise
all authority--Nullius in verbo--I stand on my own bottom." "But sir, sir," replied his antagonist,
"the reason of the thing shows--" "A fig for reason," cries this sufficient member; "I laugh
at reason; give me ocular demonstratio." The corpulent gentleman began to wax warm, and observed,
that no man acquainted with the anatomy of the parts would advance such an extravagant assertion.
This inuendo enraged the other so much, that he started up, and in a furious tone exclaimed:
"What, Sir! do you question my knowledge in anatomy?"

By this time, all the examiners had espoused the opinion of one or other of the disputants,
and raised their voices altogether, when the chairman commanded silence, and ordered me to
withdraw. In less than a quarter of an hour, I was called in again, received my qualification
scaled up, and was ordered to pay five shillings. I laid down my half-guinea upon the table,
and stood some time, until one of them bade me begone; to this I replied, "I will when I have
got my change:" upon which another threw me five shillings and sixpence, saying, I should not
be a true Scotchman if I went away without my change. I was afterwards obliged to give three
shillings and sixpence to the beadles, and a shilling to an old woman who swept the hall: this
disbursement sank my finances to thirteen-pence halfpenny, with which I was sneaking off, when
Jackson, perceiving it, came up to me, and begged I would tarry for him, and he would accompany
me to the other end of the town, as soon as his examination should be over. I could not refuse
this to a person that was so much my friend; but I was astonished at the change of his dress
which was varied in half-an-hour from what I have already described to a very grotesque fashion.
His head was covered with an old smoke tie-wig that did not boast one crooked hair, and a slouched
hat over it, which would have very well become a chimney-sweeper, or a dustman; his neck was
adorned with a black crape, the ends of which he had twisted, and fixed in the button-hole
of a shabby greatcoat that wrapped up his whole body; his white silk stockings were converted
into black worsted hose: and his countenance was rendered venerable by wrinkles, and a beard
of his own painting. When I expressed my surprise at this metamorphosis, he laughed, and told
me it was done by the advice and assistance of a friend, who lived over the way, and would
certainly produce something very much to his advantage; for it gave him the appearance of age,
which never fails of attracting respect. I applauded his sagacity, and waited with impatience
for the effects of it. At length he was called in; but whether the oddness of his appearance
excited a curiosity more than small in the board, or his behaviour was not suitable to his
figure, I know not, he was discovered to be an imposter, and put into the hands of the beadle
in order to be sent to Bridewell. So that instead of seeing him come out with a cheerful countenance,
and a surgeon's qualification in his hand, I perceived him led through the outer hall as a
prisoner; and was very much alarmed, and anxious to know the occasion; when he called with
a lamentable voice, and a piteous aspect to me, and some others who know him, "For God's sake,
gentlemen bear witness that I am the same individual John Jackson who served as surgeon's second
mate on board the Elizabeth, or else I shall go to Bridewell!"

It would have been impossible for the most austere hermit that ever lived to have refrained
from laughing at his appearance and address: we therefore indulged ourselves a good while at
his expense, and afterwards pleaded his cause so effectually with the beadle who was gratified
with half-a-crown, that the prisoner was dismissed, and in a few moments renewed his former
gaiety--swearing, since the board had refused his money, he would spend every shilling before
he went to bed, in treating his friends; at the same time inviting us all to favour him with
our company. It was now ten o'clock at night, and, as I had a great way to walk through streets
that were utterly unknown to me, I was prevailed on to be of their party, in hopes he would
afterwards accompany me to my lodgings, according to his promise. He conducted me to his friend's
house, who kept a tavern over the way where we continued drinking punch, until the liquor mounted
up to our heads, and made us all extremely frolicsome. I, in particular, was so much elevated,
that nothing would serve me but a wench; at which demand Jackson expressed much joy, and assured
me I should have my desire before we parted Accordingly, when he had paid the reckoning, we
sallied out, roaring and singing; and were conducted by our leader to a place of nocturnal
entertainment, where Mr. Jackson's dress attracted the assiduities of two or three nymphs,
who loaded him with caresses, in return for the arrack punch with which he treated them, till
at length sleep began to exert his power over us all, and our conductor called "To pay." When
the bill was brought, which amounted to twelve shillings, he put his hand in his pocket, but
might have saved himself the trouble, for his purse was gone. This accident disconcerted him
a good deal at first; but after some recollection, he seized the two ladies who sat by him,
one in each hand, and swore if they did not immediately restore his money he would charge a
constable with them. The good lady at the bar, seeing what passed, whispered something to the
drawer, who went out; and then with great composure, asked what was the matter? Jackson told
her he was robbed, and swore if she refused him satisfaction, he would have her and her female
friends committed to Bridewell. "Robbed!" cried she, "robbed in my house! Gentlemen and Ladies,
I take you all to witness, this person has scandalised my reputation." At that instant, seeing
the constable and watch enter, she proceeded "What! you must not only endeavour by your false
aspersions to ruin my character, but even commit an assault upon my family! Mr. Constable,
I charge you with this uncivil person, who has been guilty of a riot here; I shall take care
and bring an action against him for defamation."

While I was reflecting on this melancholy event, which had made me quite sober, one of the
ladies, being piqued at some repartee that passed between us, cried, "They are all concerned!"
and desired the constable to take us all into custody; an arrest which was performed instantly,
to the utter astonishment and despair of us all, except Jackson, who having been often in such
scrapes, was very little concerned, and charged the constable, in his turn, with the landlady
and her whole bevy; upon which we were carried altogether prisoners to the round-house, where
Jackson after a word of comfort to us, informed the constable of his being robbed, to which
he said he would swear next morning before the justice. In a little time the constable, calling
Jackson into another room, spoke to him thus: "I perceive that you and your company are strangers,
and am very sorry for your being involved in such an ugly business. I have known this woman
a great while; she has kept a notorious house in the neighbourhood this many years; and although
often complained of as a nuisance, still escapes through her interest with the justices, to
whom she and all of her employment pay contribution quarterly for protection. As she charged
me with you first, her complaint will have the preference, and she can procure evidence to
swear whatsoever she shall please to desire of them; so that, unless you can make it up before
morning, you and your companions may think yourselves happily quit for a month's hard labour
in Bridewell. Nay, if she should swear a robbery or an assault against you, you will be committed
to Newgate and tried at the next session at the Old Bailey for your life." This last piece
of information had such an effect upon Jackson, that he agreed to make it up, provided his
money might be restored. The constable told him, that, instead of retrieving what he had lost,
he was pretty certain it would cost him some more before they could come to any composition.
But, however, he had compassion on him, and would, if he pleased, sound them about a mutual
release. The unfortunate beau thanked him for his friendship, and returning to us, acquainted
us with the substance of this dialogue; while the constable, desiring to speak in private with
our adversary, carried her into the next room, and pleaded, our cause so effectually, that
she condescended to make him umpire: he accordingly proposed an arbitration, to which we gave
our assent; and he fined each party in three shillings, to be laid out in a bowl of punch,
wherein we drowned all animosities, to the inexpressible joy of my two late acquaintances and
me, who had been extremely uneasy ever since Jackson mentioned Bridewell and Newgate. By the
time we had finished our bowl--to which, by the bye, I had contributed my last shilling--it
was morning, and I proposed to move homeward, when the constable gave me to understand, he
could discharge no prisoners but by order of the justice, before whom we must appear. This
renewed my chagrin, and I cursed the hour in which I had yielded to Jackson's invitation.

About nine o'clock, we were escorted to the house of a certain justice not many miles distant
from Covent Garden, who no sooner saw the constable enter with a train of prisoners at his
heels, than he saluted him as follows: "So Mr. Constable, you are a diligent man. What den
of rogues have you been scouring?" Then looking at us, who appeared very much dejected, he
continued: "Ay, ay, thieves. I see--old offenders; oh, your humble servant, Mrs. Harridan!
I suppose these fellows have been taken robbing your house. Yes, yes, here's an old acquaintance
of mine. You have used expedition," said he to me, "in returning from transportation; but we
shall save you that trouble for the future--the surgeons will fetch you from your next transportation,
at their expense." I assured his worship he was mistaken in me, for he had never seen me in
his life before. To this declaration he replied, "How! you impudent rascal, dare you say so
to my face? Do you think I am to be imposed upon by that northern accent, which you have assumed?
But it shan't avail you--you shall find me too far north for you. Here, clerk, write this fellow's
mittimus. His name is Patrick Gaghagan." Here Mr. Jackson interposed, and told him I was a
Scotchman lately come to town, descended of a good family, and that my name was Random. The
justice looked upon this assertion as an outrage upon his memory, on which he valued himself
exceedingly; and strutting up to Jackson, with a fierce countenance, put his hands in his side,
and said, "Who are you, sir? Do you give me the lie? Take notice, gentlemen, here's a fellow
who affronts me upon the bench but I'll lay you fast, sirrah, I will--for notwithstanding your
laced jacket, I believe you are a notorious felon." My friend was so much abashed at this menace,
which was thundered out with great vociferation, that he changed colour, and remained speechless.
This confusion his worship took for a symptom of guilt, and, to complete the discovery, continued
his threats, "Now, I am convinced you are a thief--your face discovers it, you tremble all
over, your conscience won't lie still--you'll be hanged, sirrah," raising his voice, "you'll
be hanged; and happy had it been for the world, as well as for your own miserable soul, if
you had been detected, and cut off in the beginning of your career. Come hither, clerk, and
take this man's confession." I was in an agony of consternation, when the constable, going
into another room with his worship, acquainted him with the truth of the story; which having
learned, he returned with a smiling countenance, and, addressing himself to us all, said it
was always his way to terrify young people when they came before him, that his threats might
make a strong impression on their minds, and deter them from engaging in scenes of riot and
debauchery, which commonly ended before the judge. Thus, having cloaked his own want of discernment
under the disguise of paternal care, we were dismissed, and I found myself as much lightened
as if a mountain had been lifted off my breast.

CHAPTER XVIII

I carry my qualification to the Navy Office--the nature of it--the behaviour of the Secretary--Strap's
concern for my absence--a battle betwixt him a blacksmith--the troublesome consequences of
it--his harangue to me--his friend the schoolmaster recommends me to a French Apothecary, who
entertains me as a journeyman

I would most willingly have gone home to sleep, but was told by my companions, that we must
deliver our letters of qualification at the Navy office, before one o'clock. Accordingly, we
went thither, and gave them to the secretary, who opened and read them, and I was mightily
pleased to find myself qualified for second mate of a third-rate. When he had stuck them all
together on a file, one of our company asked if there were any vacancies; to which interrogation
he answered "No!" Then I ventured to inquire if may ships were to be put in commission soon.
At which question he surveyed me with a look of ineffable contempt; and, pushing us out of
his office, locked the door without deigning us another word. We went down stairs, and conferred
together on our expectations, when I understood that each of them had been recommended to one
or other of the commissioners, and each of them promised the first vacancy that should fall;
but that none of them relied solely upon that interest, without a present to the secretary,
with whom some of the commissioners went snacks. For which reason, each of them had provided
a small purse; and I was asked what I proposed to give This was a vexatious question to me
who (far from being in a capacity to gratify a ravenous secretary) had not wherewithal to purchase
a dinner. I therefore answered, I had not yet determined what to give; and sneaked off toward
my own lodging, lamenting my fate all the way, and inveighing with much bitterness against
the barbarity of my grandfather, and the sordid avarice of my relations, who left me a prey
to contempt and indigence.

Full of these disagreeable reflections, I arrived at the house where I lodged, and relieved
my landlord from great anxiety on my account; for this honest man believed I had met with some
dismal accident, and that he never should see me again. Strap, who had come to visit me in
the morning, understanding I had been abroad all night, was almost distracted, and after having
obtained leave of his master, had gone in quest of me, though he was even more ignorant of
the town than I. Not being willing to inform the landlord of my adventure, I told him I had
met an acquaintance at Surgeons' Hall, with whom I spent the evening and night; but being very
much infested with bugs, I had not slept much, and therefore intended to take a little repose;
so saying, I went to bed, and desired to be awakened if Strap should happen to come wile I
should be asleep. I was accordingly roused by my friend himself, who entered my chamber about
three o'clock in the afternoon, and presented a figure to my eyes that I could scarce believe
real. In short, this affectionate shaver, setting out towards Surgeons' Hall, had inquired
for me there to no purpose: from whence he found his way to the Navy Office, where he could
hear no tidings of me, because I was unknown to everybody then present; he afterwards went
upon 'Change, in hopes of seeing me upon the Scotch walk, but without success. At last, being
almost in despair of finding me, he resolved to ask everybody he met in the street, if perchance
anyone could give him information about me! and actually put his resolution in practice, in
spite of the scoffs, curses, and reproaches with which he was answered; until a blacksmith's
'prentice seeing him stop a porter with a burden on his back, and hearing his question, for
which he received a hearty curse, called to him, and asked if the person he inquired after
was not a Scotchman? Strap replied with great eagerness, "Yes, and had on a brown coat, with
long skirts." "The same!" said the blacksmith. "I saw him pass by an hour ago," "Did you so?"
cried Strap, rubbing his hands, "Odd! I am very glad of that--which way went he?" "Towards
Tyburn in a cart," said he, "if you make good speed, you may get thither time enough to see
him hanged." This piece of wit incensed my friend to such a degree, that he called the blacksmith
scoundrel, and protested he would fight him for half-a-farthing. "No, no!" said the other,
stripping; "I'll have none of your money--you Sootchmen seldom carry anything about you; but
I'll fight you for love." Were was a ring immediately formed by the mob: and Strap, finding
he could not get off honourably without fighting, at the same time burning with resentment
against his adversary, quitted his clothes to the care of the multitude, and the battle began
with great violence on the side of Strap, who in a few minutes exhausted his breath and spirits
on his patient antagonist, who sustained the assault with great coolness, till finding the
barber quite spent, he returned the blows he had lent him, with such interest, that Strap,
after having received three falls on the hard stones, gave out, and allowed the blacksmith
to be the better man.

The victory being thus decided, it was proposed to adjourn to a cellar hard by, and drink friends.
But when my friend began to gather up his clothes, he perceived that some honest person or
other had made free with his shirt, neckcloth, hat, and wig, which were carried off; and probably
his coat and waistcoat would have met with the same fate, had they been worth stealing. It
was in vain for him to make a noise, which only yielded mirth to the spectators; he was fain
to get off in this manner, which he accomplished with much difficulty and appeared before me
all besmeared with blood and dirt. Notwithstanding this misfortune, such was his transport
at finding me safe and sound, that he had almost stifled and stunk me to death with his embraces.
After he had cleaned himself, and put on one of my shirts, and a woollen nightcap, I recounted
to him the particulars of my night's campaign, which filled him with admiration, and made him
repeat with great energy an observation which was often in his mouth, namely, 'that surely
London is the devil's drawing-room.' As neither of us had dined, he desired me to get up, and
the milkwoman coming round at that instant, he went downstairs, and brought up a quart, with
a penny loaf, on which we made a comfortable meal. He then shared his money with me, which
amounted to eighteen-pence, and left me with an intention to borrow an old wig and hat of his
friend the schoolmaster.

He was no sooner gone, than I began to consider my situation with great uneasiness, and revolved
all the schemes my imagination could suggest, in order to choose and pursue some one that would
procure me bread; for it is impossible to express the pangs I felt, when I reflected on the
miserable dependence in which I lived at the expense of a poor barber's boy, My pride took
the alarm, and having no hopes of succeeding at the Navy Office, I came to a resolution of
enlisting in the foot-guards next day, be the event what it would. This extravagant design,
by flattering my disposition, gave great satisfaction; and I was charging the enemy at the
head of my own regiment, when Strap's return interrupted my reverie. The schoolmaster had made
him a present of the tie-wig which he wore, when I was introduced to him, together with an
old hat, whose brims would have overshadowed a Colossus. Though Strap had ventured to wear
them in the dusk, he did not choose to entertain the mob by day; therefore went to work immediately,
and reduced them both to a moderate size. While he was employed in this office, he addressed
me thus: "To be sure, Mr. Random, you are born a gentleman, and have a great deal of learning--and,
indeed, look like a gentleman; for, as to person, you may hold up your head with the best of
them. On the other hand, I am a poor but honest cobbler's son: my mother was as industrious
a woman as ever broke bread, till such time as she took to drinking, which you very well know;
but everybody has failings--Humanum est errare. Now myself, I am a poor journeyman barber,
tolerably well made and understand some Latin, and have a smattering of Greek; but what of
that? Perhaps I might also say, that I know a little of the world; but that is to no purpose,--though
you be gentle, and I simple, it does not follow, but that I who am simple may do a good office
to you who are gentle. Now this is the case: my kinsman, the schoolmaster--perhaps you did
not know he how nearly he is related to me--I'll satisfy you in that presently; his mother
and my grandmother's sister's nephew--no, that's not it!--my grandfather's brother's daughter--rabbit
it! I have forgot the degree. But this I know, he and I are cousins seven times removed." My
impatience to know the good office he had done me, got the better of my temper, and I interrupted
him at this place with the exclamation, "If the schoolmaster or you can be of any advantage
to me, why don't you tell me without all this preamble?" When I pronounced these words with
some vehemence, Strap looked at me for same time with a grave countenance, and then went on:
"I'm very sorry to see such an alteration in your temper of late; you were always fiery, but
now you are grown as crabbed as old Periwinkle the drunken tinker, on whom you and I (God forgive
us!) played so many unlucky tricks while we were at school--but I will no longer detain you
in suspense, because (doubtless) nothing is more uneasy than doubt--Dubio procul dubio nil
dubius. My friend or relation, or which you will, or both, the schoolmaster, being informed
of the regard I have for you; for you may be sure I did not fail to let him know of your good
qualities--by the bye, he has undertaken to teach you the pronunciation of the English tongue,
without which, he says, you will be unfit for business in this country--I say my relation has
spoke in your behalf to a French apothecary who wants a journeyman; and on his recommendation
you may have fifteen pounds a year, bed and board, whenever you please." I was too much interested
in this piece of news to entertain it with indifference; but, jumping up, insisted on Strap's
immediately accompanying me to the house of his friend, that I might not lose this opportunity
through the least delay or neglect on my part.

We were informed, that the schoolmaster was in company at a publichouse in the neighbourhood,
whither we repaired, and found him drinking with the very individual apothecary in question.
When he was called to the door at our desire, and observed my impatience, he broke out into
his usual term of admiration. "Oh! I suppose, when you heard of this offer, you did not take
leisure enough to come downstairs, but leaped out of the window: did you overturn no porter
nor oyster-woman in your way? It was a mercy of God you did not knock your brains out against
some post in your career. Oh, my conscience! I believe, had I been in the inmost recesses of
my habitation--the very penetralia--your eagerness would have surmounted bolts, bars, decency,
and everything. The den of Cacus, or sanctum sanctorum, could not have hid me from you. But
come along the gentleman of whom I spoke is in the house; I will present you to him forthwith."
When I entered the room, I perceived four or five people smoking, one of whom the schoolmaster
accosted thus: "Mr. Lavement, here's the young man of whom I spoke to you." The apothecary,
who was a little old withered man, with a forehead about an inch high, a nose turned up at
the end, large cheek-bones that helped to form a pit for his little gray eyes, a great bag
of loose skin hanging down on each side in wrinkles, like the alforjos of a baboon, and a mouth
so much accustomed to that contraction which produces grinning, that he could not pronounce
a syllable without discovering the remains of his teeth, which consisted of four yellow fangs,
not improperly, by anatomists, called canine. This person, I say, after having eyed me some
time, said, "Oho, 'tis ver well, Monsieur Concordance; young man, you are ver welcome, take
one coup of bierre--and come to mine house to-morrow morning; Monsieur Concordance vil show
you de way." Upon this I made my bow, and as I went out of the room could hear him say, "Ma
foi! c'est un beau garcon; c'est un gaillard."

As I had by my own application, while I served Crab, acquired the French tongue well enough
to read authors written in that language and understand anything that occurred in conversation,
I determined to pretend ignorance to my new master, that he and his family, whom I supposed
to be of the same country, not being on the reserve before me, I might possibly discover something
in discourse, which would either yield me amusement or advantage. Next morning Mr. Concordance
carried me to the apothecary's house, where the bargain was made, and orders given to provide
an apartment for me immediately. But before I entered upon business the schoolmaster recommended
me to his tailor, who gave me credit for a suit of clothes, to be paid out of the first moiety
of my wages, and they were begun upon that very day; he afterwards accommodated me with a new
hat on the same term: so that in a few days I hoped to make a very fashionable appearance.
In the meantime, Strap conveyed my baggage to the place allotted for me, which was a back room
up two pair of stairs, furnished with a pallet for me to lie upon, a chair without a back,
a bottle by way of candlestick, and a triangular piece of glass instead of a mirror; the rest
of its ornaments having been lately removed to one of the garrets, for the convenience of the
servant of an Irish captain, who lodged in the first floor.

CHAPTER XIX

The character of Mr. Lavement, his wife and daughter--some anecdotes of the family--the mother
and daughter rivals--I am guilty of a mistake that gives me present satisfaction, but is attended
with troublesome consequences

Next day, while I was at work in the shop, a bouncing damsel well dressed came on pretence
of finding a vial for some use or other; and taking an opportunity, when she thought I did
not mind her, of observing me narrowly, went away with a silent look of disdain. I easily guessed
her sentiments, and my pride took the resolution of entertaining the same indifference and
neglect towards her. At dinner the maids, with whom I dined in the kitchen, gave me to understand
that this was my master's only daughter, who would have a very handsome fortune, on account
of which, and her beauty, a great many young gentlemen made their addresses to her--that she
had been twice on the brink of marriage, but disappointed by the stinginess of her father,
who refused to part with a shilling to promote the match; for which reason the young lady did
not behave to her father with all the filial veneration that might be expected. In particular
she harboured the most perfect hatred for his countrymen; in which disposition she resembled
her mother, who was an English-woman; and, by the hints they dropped, I learned the gray mare
was the better horse--that she was a matron of a high spirit, which was often manifested at
the expense of her dependents; that she loved diversions, and looked upon miss as her rival
in all parties--which was indeed the true cause of her disappointments; for had the mother
been hearty in her interest, the father would not have ventured to refuse her demands. Over
and above this intelligence, I, of myself, soon made more discoveries. Mr. Lavement's significant
grins at his wife, while she looked another way, convinced me that he was not at all content
with his lot; and his behaviour in presence of the captain made me believe his chief torment
was jealousy. As for my own part, I was considered in no other light than that of a menial
servant, and had been already six days in the house without being honoured with one word from
either mother or daughter; the latter (as I understood from the maids) having at table one
day expressed some surprise that her papa should entertain such an awkward mean-looking journeyman.
I was nettled at this piece of information, and next Sunday (it being my turn to take my diversion)
dressed myself in my new clothes to the greatest advantage, and, vanity apart, made no contemptible
figure.

After having spent most part of the day in company with Strap and some of his acquaintance,
I came home in the afternoon, and was let in by miss, who not knowing me, dropped a low curtsey
as I advanced, which I returned with a profound bow, and shut the door. By the time I had turned
about, she had perceived her mistake, and changed colour, but did not withdraw. The passage
being narrow, I could not get away without jolting her; so I was forced to remain where I was
with my eyes fixed to the ground, and my face glowing with blushes. At length, her vanity coming
to her assistance, she went away tittering, and I could hear her pronounce the word 'creature!'
From this day forward, she came into the shop fifty times, every day upon various pretences,
and put in practice so many ridiculous airs, that I could easily perceive her opinion of me
was changed, and that she did not think me altogether an unworthy conquest. But my heart was
so steeled against her charms by pride and resentment, which were two chief ingredients in
my disposition, that I remained insensible to all her arts; and notwithstanding some advances
she made, could not be prevailed upon to yield her the least attention. This neglect soon banished
all the favourable impressions she felt for me, and the rage of a slighted woman took place
in her heart; this she manifested not only in all the suggestions her malice could invent to
my prejudice with her father, but also in procuring for me such servile employments as she
hoped would sufficiently humble my spirit. One day in particular, she ordered me to brush my
master's coat; but I refusing, a smart dialogue ensued, which ended in her bursting into tears
of rage; when her mother interposing, and examining into the merits of the cause, determined
it in my favour: and this good office I owed not to any esteem or consideration she had for
me, but solely to the desire of mortifying her daughter, who on this occasion observed, that
let people be never so much in the right, there were some folks who would never do them justice,
but, to be sure, they had their reasons for it, which some people were ignorant of, although
they despised their little arts. This insinuation of some people and some folks put me upon
observing the behaviour of my mistress more narrowly for the future: and it was not long before
I had reason to believe that she looked upon her daughter as a rival in the affections of Captain
O'Donnell, who lodged in the house.

In the meantime, my industry and knowledge gained me the goodwill of my master, who would often
say in French, "Mardy! c'est un bon garcon." He had a great deal of business; but he was mostly
employed among his fellow refugees, his profits were small. However, his expense for medicines
was not great; for he was the most expert man at a succedaneum of any apothecary in London,
so that I have been sometimes amazed to see him, without the least hesitation, make up a physician's
prescription, though he had not in his shop one medicine mentioned in it. Oyster-shells he
could convert into crab's eyes; common oil into oil of sweet almonds; syrup of sugar into balsamic
syrup; Thames water into aqua cinnamoni; and a hundred more costly preparations were produced
in an instant, from the cheapest and coarsest drugs of the materia medica: and when any common
thing was ordered for a patient, he always took care to disguise it in colour or taste, or
both, in such a manner that it could not possibly be known; for which purpose cochineal and
oil of cloves were of great service. Mr. Lavement had attempted more than once to introduce
a vegetable diet into his family, by launching out into the praise of roots and greens, and
decrying the use of flesh, both as a physician and philosopher; but all his rhetoric could
not make one proselyte to his opinion, and even the wife of his bosom declared against the
proposal.

One afternoon, when her husband was abroad, and his daughter gone to visit, this lady ordered
me to call a hackney-coach, in which she and the captain drove towards Covent Garden. Miss
came home in the evening, and, supping at her usual hour, went to bed. About eleven o'clock
my master entered, and asked if his wife was gone to sleep: upon which I told him, my mistress
went out in the afternoon, and was not yet returned. This was like a clap of thunder to the
poor apothecary, who starting back, cried, "Mort de ma vie! vat you tell a me? My vife not
at home!" At that instant a patient's servant arrived with a prescription for a draught, which
my master taking, went into the shop to make it up with his own hand. While he rubbed the ingredients
in a glass mortar, he inquired of me, whether or no his wife went out alone; and no sooner
heard that she was in company with the captain, than with one blow he split the mortar into
a thousand pieces, and grinning like the head of a bass viol, exclaimed, "Ah, traitresse!"
It would have been impossible for me to have preserved my gravity a minute longer, when I was
happily relieved by a rap at the door, which I opened, and perceived my mistress coming out
of the coach. She flounced immediately into the shop, and addressed her husband thus: "I suppose
you thought I was lost, my dear. Captain O'Donnell has been so good as to treat me with a play."
The reply, it may be supposed, was anything but courteous but the captain, who had been all
the time at the door discharging the coach, entered, and Mr. Lavement, changing his tone, saluted
him with all the usual politesse of a Frenchman.

Shortly after this event, by the knowledge which I acquired of the family secrets, my life
became much more agreeable; and as I every day improved in my knowledge of the town I shook
off my awkward air by degrees, and acquired the character of a polite journeyman apothecary.

CHAPTER XX

I am assaulted and dangerously wounded-suspect O'Donnell, and am confirmed in my opinion--concert
a scheme of revenge, and put it into execution--O'Donnell robs his own servant and disappears--make
my addresses to a lady, and am miraculously delivered from her snare

One night, at about twelve o'clock, as I returned from visiting a patient at Chelsea, I received
a blow on my head from an unseen hand, that stretched me senseless on the ground; and was left
for dead with three stabs of a sword in my body. The groans I uttered when I recovered the
use of my reason alarmed the people of a solitary alehouse that stood near the spot where I
lay: and they were humane enough to take me in, and send for a surgeon, who dressed my wounds,
and assured me they were not mortal. One of them penetrated through the skin and muscles of
one side of my belly in such a manner, that doubtless the assassin imagined he had run me through
the entrails. The second slanted along one of my ribs; and the last, which was intended for
the finishing stroke, having been directed to my heart, the sword snapped upon my breast-bone,
and the point remained sticking in the skin. When I reflected upon this event, I could not
persuade myself that I had been assaulted by a common footpad, because it is not usual for
such people to murder though they rob, especially when they meet with no resistance; and I
found my money, and everything else about me but my carcase, safe. I concluded, therefore,
that I must either have been mistaken for another, or obliged to the private resentment of
some secret enemy for what had happened; and as I could remember nobody who had the least cause
of complaint against me, except Captain O'Donnell and my master's daughter, my suspicion settled
upon them, though I took care to conceal it, that I might the sooner arrive at confirmation.

With this view, I went home in the chair about ten o'clock in the morning; and as the chairman
supported me into the house, met the captain in the passage, who no sooner saw me than he started
back and gave evident signs of guilty confusion, which he would have accounted for from surprise
occasioned by the seeing me in such a condition. My master having heard my story, condoled
me with a good deal of sympathy, and when he understood my wounds were not dangerous, ordered
me to be carried upstairs to bed; though not without some opposition from his wife, who was
of opinion that it would be better for me to go to an hospital, where I should be more carefully
attended. My meditation was employed in concerting with myself some method of revenge against
Squire O'Donnell and his inamorata, whom I looked upon as the author of my misfortune; when
miss, who was not at home at my arrival, entered my chamber, and saying she was sorry for the
accident that had befallen me, asked if I suspected anybody to be the assassin; upon which
I fixed my eyes steadfastly upon her and answered, "Yes." She discovered no symptom of confusion,
but replied hastily, "If that be the case, why don't you take out a warrant, to have him apprehended?
It will cost but a trifle--if you have no money, I'll lend you." This frankness not only cured
me of my suspicion with respect to her, but even staggered my belief with regard to the captain,
of whose guilt I resolved to have further proof before I should enterprise anything in the
way of revenge. I thanked her kindly for her generous offer, which, however, I had no occasion
to accept, being determined to do nothing rashly: for though I could plainly perceive the person
who attacked me to be a soldier, whose face I thought was familiar to me, I could not swear
with a safe conscience to any particular man; and, granting I could, my prosecution of him
would not much avail.

This uncertainty I pretended, lest the captain, hearing from her that I knew the person who
wounded me, might think proper to withdraw before I could be in a condition to requite him.
In two days I was up and able to do a little business, so that Mr. Lavement made shift to carry
on his practice without hiring another journeyman in my room.

The first thing I attempted towards a certain discovery of my secret enemy, was to get into
O'Donnell's apartment, while he was abroad in an undress, and examine his sword, the point
of which being broken off, I applied the fragment that was found sticking in my body, and found
it answered the fractured part exactly. There was no room left for doubt; and all that remained
was to fix upon a scheme of revenge, which almost solely engrossed my thoughts during the space
of eight nights and days. Sometimes I was tempted to fall upon him in the same manner as he
had practised upon me, and kill him outright. But this assault my honour opposed as a piece
of barbarous cowardice, in which he was not to be imitated. At other times I entertained thoughts
of demanding satisfaction in an honourable way; but was diverted from this undertaking by considering
the uncertainty of the event, and the nature of the injury he had done me, which did not entitle
him to such easy terms. At last I determined to pursue a middle course, and actually put my
design in execution after this manner. Having secured the assistance of Strap and two of his
acquaintance whom he could depend upon, we provided ourselves with disguises, and I caused
the following letter to be delivered to him by one of our associates in livery, one Sunday
evening:--

"Sir--If I may be allowed to judge from appearance, it will not be disagreeable for you to
hear that my husband is gone to Bagshot to visit a patient, and will not return till to-morrow
night; so that, if you have anything to propose to me (as your behaviour on many occasions
has seemed to insinuate), you will do well to embrace the present opportunity of seeing, Yours,
etc." This letter was signed with the Dame of an apothecary's wife who lived in Chelsea, of
whom I had heard O'Donnell was an admirer. Everything succeeded to our wish. The hero hastened
towards the place of appointment, and was encountered by us in the very place where he had
assaulted me. We rushed upon him all at once, secured his sword, stripped off his clothes even
to the skin, which was scourged with nettles till he was blistered from head to foot, notwithstanding
all the eloquence of his tears and supplications. When I was satisfied with the stripes I had
bestowed, we carried off his clothes, which we hid in a hedge near the place, and left him
stark naked to find his way home in the best manner he could, while I took care to be there
before him. I afterwards understood that, in his way to the lodgings of a friend, who lived
in the skirts of the town, he was picked up by the watch, who carried him to the round-house,
from whence he sent for clothes to his lodgings, and next morning arrived at the door in a
chair, wrapt up in a blanket he had borrowed; for his body was so sore and swelled, that he
could not bear to be confined in his wearing apparel. He was treated with the utmost tenderness
by my mistress and her daughter, who vied with each other in their care and attendance of him;
but Lavement himself could not forbear expressing his joy, by several malicious grins, while
he ordered me to prepare an unguent for his sores. As to myself, nobody can doubt my gratification,
when I had every day an opportunity of seeing my revenge protracted on the body of my adversary,
by the ulcers of which I had been the cause; and, indeed, I not only enjoyed the satisfaction
of having flea'd him alive, but another also which I had not foreseen. The story of his being
attacked and stripped in such a place having been inserted in the news, gave information to
those who found his clothes next day, whither to bring them; and accordingly he retrieved everything
he had lost except a few letters, among which was that which I had writ to him in the name
of the apothecary's wife. This, and the others, which were all on the subject of love (for
this Hibernian hero was one of those people who are called fortune-hunters), fell into the
hands of a certain female author, famous for the scandal she has published; who, after having
embellished them with some ornaments of her own invention, gave them to the to town in print.
I was very much shocked on reflection, that I might possibly be the occasion of a whole family's
unhappiness on account of the letter I had written; but was eased of that apprehension, when
I understood that the Chelsea apothecary had commenced a lawsuit against the printer for defamation,
and looked upon the whole as a piece of forgery committed by the author, who had disappeared.
But whatever might be his opinion of the matter, our two ladies seemed to entertain a different
idea of it: for as soon as the pamphlet appeared, I could perceive their care of their patient
considerably diminish, till at last it ended in a total neglect. It was impossible for him
to be ignorant of this change, any more than of the occasion of it; but as he was conscious
to himself of having deserved worse than contempt at their hands, he was glad to come off so
cheaply, and contented himself with muttering curses and threats against the apothecary, who,
as he imagined, having got an inkling of the appointment with his wife, had taken revenge of
him in the manner described. By the time he had got a new scarf skin his character was become
so notorious, that he thought it high time for him to decamp; and his retreat he performed
in one night, without beat of drum, after having robbed his own servant of everything that
belonged to him except the clothes he had on his back.

A few days after he disappeared, Mr. Lavement, for his own security, took into his custody
a large old trunk which he had left; and as it was very heavy, made no question that the contents
were sufficient to indemnify him for what O'Donnell owed in lodging. But a month being elapsed
without hearing any tidings of this adventurer, and my master being impatient to know what
the trunk contained, he ordered me to break it open in his presence, which task I performed
with the pestle of our great mortar, and discovered, to his inexpressible astonishment and
mortification, a heap of stones.

About this time, my friend Strap informed me of an offer he had to go abroad with a gentleman
in quality of valet de chambre and at the same time assured me that, whatever advantage he
might propose to himself from this prospect, he could not bear the thoughts of parting from
me, so much was he attached to my fortune. In spite of all the obligations I owed to this poor,
honest fellow, ingratitude is so natural to the heart of man, that I began to be tired of his
acquaintance: and now that I had contracted other friendships which appeared more creditable,
was even ashamed to see a journeyman barber inquiring after me with the familiarity of a companion.
I therefore, on pretence of consulting his welfare, insisted upon his accepting the proposal,
which he at last determined to embrace, with great reluctance, and in a few days, took his
leave of me, shedding a flood of tears, which I could not behold without emotion. I now began
to look upon me as of a gentleman in reality; learned to dance, frequented plays during the
holidays; became the oracle of an ale-house, where every dispute was referred to my decision;
and at length contracted an acquaintance with a young lady, who found means to make a conquest
of my heart, and upon whom I prevailed, after much attendance and solicitation, to give me
a promise of marriage. As this beautiful creature passed for a rich heiress, I blessed my good
fortune, and was actually on the point of crowning all my wishes by matrimony, when I made
such a discovery as effectually turned me from my design, and I abandoned all thoughts of marriage
for the future.

CHAPTER XXI

Squire Gawky comes to lodge with my master--is involved in a troublesome affair, out of which
he is extricated by me--he marries my master's daughter--they conspire against me--I am found
guilty of theft, discharged--deserted by my friends, I hire a room in St. Gile's--where, by
accident, I find the lady to whom I paid my addresses in a miserable condition--I relieve her

When I enjoyed myself at large in this temper of mind, Lavement let his first floor to my countryman
and acquaintance, Squire Gawky, who by this time had got a lieutenancy in the army, and such
a martial ferocity in his appearance that I was afraid he would remember what happened between
us in Scotland, and atone for his breach of appointment then by his punctuality now; but whether
he had actually forgot me, or was willing to make me believe so, he betrayed not the least
symptom of recognition at sight of me, and I remained quite cured of my apprehension; though
I had occasion not long after to be convinced, that howsoever his externals might be altered,
he was at bottom the same individual Gawky, whom I have already described. For coming home
late one night from the house of a patient, I heard a noise in the street, and as I approached,
perceived two gentlemen in custody, of three watchmen. The prisoners, who were miserable, disfigured
with dirt, complained bitterly of the loss of their hats and wigs; and one of them, whom by
his tongue I know to be a Scotchman, lamented most piteously, offering a guinea for his liberty,
which the watchman refused, alleging that one of his companions was wounded grievously, and
that he must stand to the consequence. My prejudice in favour of my native country was so strong,
that I could not bear to see anybody belonging to it in distress, and therefore, with one blow
of my faithful cudgel, knocked down the watchman who had hold of the person for whom I was
chiefly concerned. He was no sooner disengaged, than he betook himself to his heels, and left
me to maintain the dispute as I should think proper; and, indeed, I came off but scurvily,
for, before I could avail myself of my speed, I received a blow on the eye, from one of the
other two, that had well nigh deprived me of the use of that organ. However, I made shift to
get home, where I was informed of Captain Gawky's being robbed and abused by a company of footpads,
and was ordered by my master to prepare an emollient glyster and paregoric draught, in order
to allay and compose the ferment of his spirits, occasioned by the barbarous treatment he had
undergone, while he took twelve ounces of blood from him immediately.

When I inquired into the particulars of this adventure, and understood by the servant that
he came in just before me, without hat and wig, I made no scruple of believing him to be the
person I had released, and was confirmed in my belief upon hearing his voice, to which (before
that event) I had long been a stranger.

My eye being considerably swelled and inflamed, I could not reflect upon my enterprise without
cursing my own folly, and even resolving to declare the truth the truth of the whole story
in order to be revenged on the cowardly wretch for whom I had suffered: accordingly, next day
after he had told, in presence of my master, his wife and daughter, who came to him, a thousand
lies concerning the prowess he had shown in making his escape, I ventured to explain the mystery,
and, calling in the evidence of my contused eye, upbraided him with cowardice and ingratitude.
Gawky was so astonished at this that he could not answer one word, and the rest of the company
stared at one another; till at length my mistress reprimanded me for my insolent behaviour,
and threatened to turn me away for my presumption. Upon which, Gawky (having recollected himself)
observed, as the young man might have mistaken another person for him, he could forgive his
insinuations, more especially as he seemed to have suffered for his incivility; but advised
me to be more certain in my conjectures for the future, before I ventured to publish them to
the prejudice of any man. Miss applauded the Captain's generosity in pardoning one who had
so villainously aspersed him, and I began to imagine her praise was not at all disinterested.
But the apothecary, who perhaps had more penetration or less partiality than his wife and daughter,
differed from them in their sentiments of the matter, and expressed himself to me in the shop
in this manner: "Ah mon pauvre Roderique! you have more of de veracite dan of de prudence--bot
mine vife and dater be diablement sage, and Monsieur le Capitaine un fanfaron, pardieu!"

This eulogium on his wife and daughter, though spoken ironically by him, was nevertheless literally
just; by espousing the cause of Gawky, the one obliged a valuable lodger, and the other acquired
a husband at a juncture when one was absolutely necessary. The young lady insinuated herself
so artfully into the affection of this new lodger, that in less than a fortnight, on pretence
of going to the play, they drove away together to the Fleet, where they were married; and in
the morning came home, where they asked her father's and mother's blessing. The prudent parents,
notwithstanding the precipitation with which the match was carried on, did not think fit to
refuse their approbation; for the apothecary was not ill pleased to find his daughter married
to a young man of a good prospect, who had not mentioned one syllable on the article of her
dowry; and his wife was rejoiced at being rid of a rival and a spy upon her. Whatever face
Gawky put on the matter, my discovery of the adventure before related, and the reproaches I
vented against him, had stung him to the soul, and cherished the seeds of enmity so strongly
in his breast, that he imparted his indignation to his wife, who being as desirous as himself
to accomplish the ruin of one that not only slighted her caresses, but was able on any occasion
to discover particulars not at all advantageous to her character, readily joined in a conspiracy
against me, which (had it taken effect as they expected) would infallibly have brought me to
an ignominious death.

My master having several times missed large quantities of medicines, of which I could give
no account, at last lost all patience, and in plain terms taxed me with having embezzled them
for my own use. As I could only oppose my single asseveration to his suspicion, he told me
one day, "Your vord not be give me de satisfaction--me find necessaire to chercher for my medicine;
pardonnez moi--il faut chercber--me demand le clef of your coffre a cette heure." Then raising
his voice to conceal the fright he was in lest I should make any opposition, he went on, "Oui!
I charge you rendez le clef of your cofrre--moi--si, moi qui vous parle." I was fired with
so much resentment and disdain at this accusation, that I burst into tears, which he took for
a sign of guilt; and pulling out my key, told him he might satisfy himself immediately, though
he would not find it so easy to satisfy me for the injury my reputation had suffered from his
unjust suspicion. He took the key and mounted up to my chamber, attended by the whole family,
saying, "Eh bien, nous verrons--nous verrons." But what was my horror and amazement, when,
opening my chest, he pulled out a handful of the very things that were missing, and pronounced,
"Ah, ha, vous etes bienvenu--mardy, Mons. Roderique, you be fort innocent!" I had not power
to utter one word in my own vindication, but stood motionless and silent, while everybody present
made their respective remarks on what appeared against me. The servants said they were sorry
for my misfortune, and went away repeating, "Who would have thought it?" My mistress took occasion
from this detection to rail against the practice of employing strangers in general; and Mrs.
Gawky, after having observed that she never had a good opinion of my fidelity, proposed to
have me carried before the justice and committed to Newgate immediately. Her husband was actually
upon the stairs in his way for a constable, when Mr. Lavement knowing the cost ant trouble
of a prosecution to which he must bind himself, and at the same time dreading lest some particulars
of my confession might affect his practice, called out. "Restez, mon fils! restez, it be veritablement
one grand crime which dis pauvre diable have committed--bot peut-etre de good God give him
de penitence, and me vill not have upon mine head de blood of one sinner." The captain and
his lady used all the Christian arguments their zeal could suggest to prevail upon the apothecary
to pursue me to destruction, and represented the injustice he did to the community of which
he was a member, in letting a villain escape, who would not fail of doing more mischief in
the world when he should reflect on his coming off so easily now; but their eloquence made
no impression on my master, who turning to me said, "Go, miserable, go from mine house quick,
quick!--and make reparation for your mauvaise actions." By this time my indignation had roused
me from the stupefaction in which I had hitherto remained and I began in this manner:--"Sir,
appearances I own condemn me; but you are imposed upon as much as I am abused: I have fallen
a sacrifice to the rancour of that scoundrel" (pointing to Gawky) "who has found means to convey
your goods hither, that the detection of them might blast my reputation, and accomplish my
destruction. His hatred to me is owing to a consciousness of his having wronged me in my own
country--for which injury he in a cowardly manner, refused me the satisfaction of a gentleman;
he knows, moreover, that I am no stranger to his dastardly behaviour in this town, which I
have recounted before, and he is unwilling that such a testimony of his ingratitude and pusillanimity
should live upon the earth; for this reason he is guilty of the most infernal malice to bring
about my ruin. And I am afraid, madam (turning to Mrs. Gawky) you have too easily entered into
the sentiments of your husband. I have often found you my enemy, and am well acquainted with
the occasion of your being so, which I don't at present think proper to declare; but I would
advise you, for your own sake, not to drive me to extremity." This address enraged her so much
that with a face as red us scarlet and the eyes of a fury, she strutted up to me and putting
her hands in her side, spat in my face, saying, I was a scandalous villain, but she defied
my malice; and that unless her papa would not prosecute me like a thief as I was, she would
not stay another night under his roof. At the same time, Gawky assuming a big look, told me,
he scorned what lies I could invent against him; but that, if I pretended to asperse his wife,
he would put me to death. To this threat I answered, "I wish I could meet with thee in a desert,
that I might have an opportunity of punishing thee for thy perfidy towards me, and rid the
world of such a rascal. What hinders me this moment," said I, seizing an old bottle that stood
by, "from doing myself that justice?" I had no sooner armed myself in this manner, than Gawky
and his father-in-law retired in such a hurry, that the one overturned the other, and they
rolled together down stairs, while my mistress swooned away with fear, and her daughter asked
if I intended to murder her. I gave her to understand, that nothing was farther from my intention,
that I would leave her to the stings of her own conscience; but was firmly resolved to slit
her husband's nose, whenever fortune should offer a convenient opportunity. Then going down
stairs, I met Lavement coming up trembling with the pestle in his hand, and Gawky behind armed
with his sword, pushing him forward. I demanded a parley: and having assured him of my pacific
disposition, Gawky exclaimed, "Ah, villain! you have killed my dear wife." And the apothecary
cried, "Ah, coquin! vere is my shild?" "The lady," said I, "is above stairs, unhurt by me,
and will, a few months hence, I believe reward your concern." Hero she called to them, and
desired they would let the wretch go, and trouble themselves no further about him. To which
request her father consented, observing, nevertheless, that my conversation was 'very mysterious.'

Finding it impossible to vindicate my innocence, I left the house immediately, and went to
the schoolmaster, with an intention of clearing myself to him, and asking his advice with regard
to my future conduct; but, to my inexpressible vexation, he was gone to the country, where
he would stay two or three days. I returned with a design of consulting some acquaintance I
had acquired in the neighbourhood; but my story had taken air through the officiousness of
the servants, and not one of my friends would vouchsafe me a hearing. Thus I found myself,
by the iniquity of mankind, in a much more deplorable condition than ever: for though I had
been formerly as poor, my reputation was without blemish, and my health unimpaired till now;
but at present my good name was lost, my money gone, my friends were alienated, my body was
infected by an odious distemper; and my faithful Strap, who alone could yield me pity and assistance,
absent I knew not where.

The first resolution I could take in this melancholy conjuncture, was to remove my clothes
to the house of the person with whom I had formerly lodged, where I remained two days in hopes
of getting another place by the interest of Mr. Concordance, to whom I made no doubt of being
able to vindicate my character; but in this supposition I reckoned without my best, for Lavement
took care to be beforehand with me; and when I attempted to explain the whole affair to the
schoolmaster, I found him so prepossessed against me, that he would scarce hear me to an end;
but when I had finished my justification, shook his head, and beginning with his usual exclamation
said, "That won't go down with me. I am very sorry I should have the misfortune of being concerned
in the affair, but, however, shall be more cautious for the future. I will trust no man from
henceforward--no, not my father who begat me, nor the brother who lay with me in my mother's
womb: should Daniel rise from the dead, I would think him an impostor; and were the genius
of truth to appear, would question its veracity!" I told him, that one day it was possible
he might be convinced of the injury I had suffered, and repent of his premature determination.
To which remark he answered, the proof of my innocence would make his bowels vibrate with joy;
"but till that shall happen," continued he, "I mast beg to have no manner of connection with
you--my reputation is at stake. I shall be looked upon as your accomplice and abettor--people
will say Jonathan Wild was but a type of me-boys will hoot at me as I pass along; and the cinder-wenches
belch forth reproaches wafted in a gale impregnated with gin: I shall be notorious--the very
butt of slander, and sink of infamy!" I was not in a humour to relish the climax of expressions
upon which this gentleman valued himself in all his discourses; but, without any ceremony,
took my leave, cursed with every sentiment of horror which my situation could suggest. I considered,
however, in the intervals of my despondence, that I must, in some shape suit my expense to
my calamitous circumstances, and with that view hired an apartment in a garret near St. Giles's,
at the rate of nine-pence per week.

I one day, when I sat in this solitary retreat musing upon the unhappiness of my fate, was
alarmed by a groan that issued from s chamber contiguous to mine, into which I immediately
ran, and found a woman stretched on a miserable truckle bed, without any visible signs of life.
Having applied a smelling bottle to her nose, the blood began to revisit her cheeks, and she
opened her eyes; but, good heaven! what were the emotions of my soul, when I discovered her
to be the same individual lady who had triumphed over my heart, and to whose fate I had almost
been inseparably joined! Her deplorable situation filled my breast with compassion. She knew
me immediately; and, straining me gently in her arms, shed a torrent of tears, which I could
not help increasing. At length, casting a languishing look at me, she pronounced with a feeble
voice, "Dear Mr. Random, I do not deserve this concern at your hands: I am a vile creature,
who had a base design upon your person--suffer me, to expiate that, and all my other crimes,
by a miserable death, which will not fail to overtake me in a few hour." I encouraged her as
much as I could, told her I forgave all her intentions with regard to me; and that, although
my circumstances were extremely low, I would share my last farthing with her. I begged in the
meantime to know the immediate cause of that fit from which she had just recovered, and said,
I would endeavour by my skill to prevent any more such attacks. She seemed very much affected
with this expression, took my hand, and pressed it to her lips, saying, "You are too generous!
I wish I could live to express my gratitude--but alas! I perish for want." Then shutting her
eyes, she relapsed into another swoon. Such extremity of distress must have waked the most
obdurate heart to sympathy and compassion; what effect then must it have had on mine, that
was naturally prone to every tender passion? I ran downstairs, and sent my landlady to a chemist's
shop for some cinnamon water, while I, returning to this unfortunate creature's chamber, used
all the means in my power to bring her to herself; this aim with much difficulty I accomplished,
and made her drink a glass of the cordial to recruit her spirits: then I prepared a little
mulled red vine and a toast, which having taken, she found herself thoroughly revived, and
informed me, that she had not tasted food for eight and forty hours before. As I was impatient
to know the occasion and nature of her calamity, she gave me to understand, that she was a
woman of the town by profession; that in the course of her adventures she found herself dangerously
infected with a distemper, to which all of her class are particularly subject; that her malady
gaining ground every day, she became loathsome to herself and offensive to others: when she
resolved to retire to some obscure corner where she might be cured with as little noise and
expense as possible; that she had accordingly chosen this place of retreat, and put herself
into the hands of an advertising doctor, who having fleeced her of all the money she had, or
could procure, left her three days ago in a worse condition than that in which he found her;
that except the clothes on her back, she had pawned or sold everything that belonged to her
to satisfy that rapacious quack, and quiet the clamour of her landlady, who still persisted
in her threats to turn her out into the street. After having moralised upon these particulars,
I proposed that she should lodge in the same room with me, an expedient that would save some
money: and assured her, I would undertake to cure her as well as my own, during which she should
partake of all the conveniences that I could afford to myself. She embraced my offer with unfeigned
acknowledgment, and I began to put it in practice immediately. I found her not only an agreeable
companion, whose conversation greatly alleviated my chagrin, but also a careful nurse, who
served me with the utmost fidelity and affection. One day, while I testified my surprise that
a woman of her beauty, good sense, and education (for she had a large portion of each), could
be reduced to such an infamous and miserable way of life, she answered with a sigh, "These
very advantages were the cause of my undoing." This remarkable reply inflamed my curiosity
to such a degree, that I begged she would favour me with the particulars of her story, and
she complied in these words.

CHAPTER XXII

The History of Miss Williams

'My father was an eminent merchant in the city who having, in the course of trade, suffered
very considerable losses, retired in his old age with his wife to a small estate in the country,
which he had purchased with the remains of his fortune. At that time, I being but eight years
of age, was left in town for the convenience of education, boarded with an aunt, who was a
rigid presbyterian, and confined me so closely to what she called the duties of religion, that
in time I grew weary of her doctrines, and by degrees received an aversion for the good books,
she daily recommended to my perusal. As I increased in age, and appeared with a person not
disagreeable, I contracted a good deal of acquaintance among my own sex; one of whom, after
having lamented the restraint I was under from the narrowness of my aunt's sentiments, told
me I must now throw off the prejudices of opinion imbibed under her influence and example,
and learn to think for myself; for which purpose she advised me to read Shaftsbury, Tindal,
Hobbes, and all the authors that are remarkable for their deviation from the old way of thinking,
and by comparing one with the other, I should soon be able to form a system of my own. I followed
her advice; and whether it was owing to my prepossession against what I had formerly read,
or the clearness of argument in these my new instructors, I know not; but I studied them with
pleasure, and in a short time became a professed freethinker. Proud of my improvement, I argued
in all companies, and that with such success, that I soon acquired the reputation of a philosopher,
and few people durst undertake me in a dispute. I grew vain upon my good fortune, and at length
pretended to make my aunt a proselyte to my opinion; but she no sooner perceived my drift than,
taking the alarm, she wrote to my father an account of my heresy, and conjured him, as he tendered
the good of my soul, to remove me immediately from the dangerous place where I had contracted
such sinful principles. Accordingly, my father ordered me into the country, where I arrived
in the fifteenth year of my age, and, by his command gave him a detail of all the articles
of my faith, which he did not find so unreasonable as they had been represented. Finding myself
suddenly deprived of the company and pleasures of the town, I grew melancholy and it was some
time before I could relish my situation. But solitude became every day more and more familiar
to me and I consoled myself in my retreat with the enjoyment of a good library, at such times
as were not employed in the management of the family (for my mother had been dead three years),
in visiting, or some other party of rural diversion. Having more imagination than judgment,
I addicted myself too much to poetry and romance; and, in short, was looked upon as a very
extraordinary person by everybody in the country where I resided.

'I had one evening strayed, with a book in my hand, into a wood that bordered on the high road,
at a little distance from my father's house, when a certain drunken squire, riding by, perceived
me, and crying, "Holloa, there's a charming creature!" alighted in a moment, caught me in his
arms, and treated me so rudely that I shrieked as loud as I could, and in the meantime opposed
his violence with all the strength that rage and resentment could inspire. During this struggle,
another horseman came up, who, seeing a lady so unworthily used, dismounted, and flew to my
assistance. The squire, mad with disappointment, or provoked with the reproaches of the other
gentleman, quitted me, and running to his horse, drew a pistol from the saddle, and fired it
at my protector, who happily receiving no damage, went up, and, with the butt-end of his whip
laid him prostrate on the ground before he could use the other, which his antagonist immediately
seized, and, clapping to the squire's breast, threatened to put him to death for his cowardice
and treachery. In this dilemma I interposed and begged his life, which was granted to my request,
after he had asked pardon, and swore his intention was only to obtain a kiss. However, my defender
thought proper to unload the other pistol, and throw away the flints, before he gave him his
liberty. This courteous stranger conducted me home, where my father having learned the signal
service he had done me, loaded him with caresses, and insisted on his lodging that night at
our house. If the obligation he had conferred upon me justly inspired me with sentiments of
gratitude, his appearance and conversation seemed to entitle him to somewhat more. He was about
the age of two-and-twenty, among the tallest of the middle size; had chestnut-coloured hair,
which he wore tied up in a ribbon; a high polished forehead, a nose inclining to the aquiline,
lively blue eyes, red pouting lips, teeth as white as snow, and a certain openness of countenance--but
why need I describe any more particulars of his person? I hope you will do me the justice to
believe I do not flatter, when I say he was the exact resemblance of you; and if I had not
been well acquainted with his family and degree, I should have made no scruple of concluding
that you was his brother. He spoke and seemed to have no reserve: for what he said was ingenuous,
sensible, and uncommon. "In short," said she, bursting into tears, "he was formed for the ruin
of our sex. His behaviour was modest and respectful, but his looks were so significant, that
I could easily observe he secretly blessed the occasion that introduced him to my acquaintance.
We learned from his discourse that he was the eldest son of a wealthy gentleman in the neighbourhood,
to whose name we were no strangers--that he had been to visit an acquaintance in the country,
from whose house he was returning home, when my shrieks brought him to my rescue."

'All night long my imagination formed a thousand ridiculous expectations: there was so much
of knight-errantry in this gentleman's coming to the relief of a damsel in distress, with whom
he immediately became enamoured, that all I had read of love and chivalry recurred to my fancy;
and I looked upon myself as a princess in some region of romance, who being delivered from
the power of some brutal giant or satyr, by a generous Oroondates, was bound in gratitude,
as well as led by inclination, to yield up my affections to him without reserve. In vain did
I endeavour to chastise these foolish conceits by reflections more reasonable and severe: the
amusing images took full possession of my mind, and my dreams represented my hero sighing at
my feet, in the language of a despairing lover. Next morning after breakfast he took his leave,
when my father begged the favour of further acquaintance with him; to which request he replied
by a compliment to him, and a look to me so full of eloquence and tenderness, that my whole
soul received the soft impression. In a short time he repeated his visit; and as a recital
of the particular steps he pursued to ruin me would be tedious and impertinent, let it suffice
to say, he made it his business to insinuate himself into my esteem, by convincing me of his
own good sense, and at the same time flattering my understanding. This task he performed in
the most artful manner, by seeming to contradict me often through misapprehension, that I might
have an opportunity of clearing myself the more to my own honour. Having thus secured my good
opinion, he began to give me some tokens of a particular passion, founded on a veneration of
the qualities of my mind, and, as an accidental ornament, admired the beauties of my person;
till at being fully persuaded of his conquest, he chose a proper season for the theme, and
disclosed his love in terms so ardent and sincere, that it was impossible for me to disguise
the sentiments of my heart, and he received my approbation with the most lively transport.
After this mutual declaration, we contrived to meet more frequently in private interviews,
where we enjoyed the conversation of one another, in all the elevation of fancy and impatience
of hope that reciprocal adoration can inspire. He professed his honourable intentions, of which
I made no question; lamented the avaricious disposition of his father, who had destined him
for the arms of another, and vowed eternal fidelity with such an appearance of candour and
devotion--that I became a dupe to his deceit. Cursed be the day on which I gave away my innocence
and peace! Cursed be my beauty that first attracted the attention of the seducer! Cursed be
my education, that, by refining my sentiments, made my heart the more susceptible! Cursed be
my good sense, that fixed me to one object, and taught me the preference I enjoyed was but
my due! Had I been ugly, nobody would have tempted me; had I been ignorant, the charms of my
person would not have atoned for the coarseness of my conversation; had I been giddy, my vanity
would have divided my inclinations, and my ideas would have been so diffused, that I should
never have listened to the enchantments of one alone.

'But to return to my unfortunate story. After some months, the visits of my lover became less
frequent, and his behaviour less warm: I perceived his coldness, my heart took the alarm, my
tears reproached him, and I insisted upon the performance of his promise to espouse me, that,
whatever should happen, my reputation might be safe. He seemed to acquiesce in my proposal,
and left me on pretence of finding a proper clergyman to unite us in the bands of wedlock.
But alas! the inconstant had no intention to return. I waited a whole week with the utmost
impatience; sometimes doubting his honour, at other times inventing excuses for him, and condemning
myself for harbouring suspicions of his faith. At length I understood from a gentleman who
dined at our house, that this perfidious wretch was on the point of setting out for London
with his bride, to buy clothes for their approaching nuptials. This information distracted
me! Rage took possession of my soul; I denounced a thousand imprecations, and formed as many
schemes of revenge against the traitor who had undone me. Then my resentment would subside
to silent sorrow. I recalled the tranquillity I lost, I wept over my infatuation, and sometimes
a ray of hope would intervene, and for a moment cheer my drooping heart; I would revolve all
the favourable circumstances of his character, repeat the vows he made, ascribe his absence
to the vigilance of a suspicious father who compelled him to a match his soul abhorred, and
comfort myself with the expectation of seeing him before the thing should be brought to any
terms of agreement. But how vain was my imagination! That villain left me without remorse,
and in a few days the news of his marriage were spread all over the country. My horror was
then inconceivable; and had not the desire of revenge diverted the resolution, I should infallibly
have put an end to my miserable life. My father observed the symptoms of my despair: and though
I have good reason to believe he guessed the cause, was at a great deal of pains to seem ignorant
of my affliction, while he endeavoured with parental fondness to alleviate my distress. I saw
his concern, which increased my anguish, and raised my fury against the author of my calamity
to an implacable degree.

'Having furnished myself with a little money, I made an elopement from this unhappy parent
in the night-time, and about break of day arrived at a small town, from whence a stage coach
set out for London, in which I embarked, and next day alighted in town; the spirit of revenge
having supported me all the way against every other reflection, My first care was to hire a
lodging, in which I kept myself very retired, assumed a feigned name, that my character and
situation might be better concealed. It was not long before I found out the house of my lover,
whither I immediately repaired in a transport of rage, determined to act some desperate deed
for the satisfaction of my despair, though the hurry of my spirits would not permit me to concert
or resolve upon a particular plan. When I demanded admission to Lothario (so let me call him),
I was desired to send up my name and business; but this I refused, telling the porter I had
business for his master's private ear; upon which I was conducted into a parlour until he should
be informed of my request. There I remained about a quarter of an hour, when a servant entered
and told me his master was engaged with company, and begged to be excused at that time. My
temper could hold out no longer. I pulled out a poniard from my bosom, where I had concealed
it, and rushing out flew up stairs like a fury, exclaiming, "Where's this perfidious villain?
could I plunge this dagger into his false heart, I should then die satisfied!" The noise I
made alarmed not only the servants, but the company also, who hearing my threats came forward
to the staircase to see was the matter. I was seized, disarmed, and withheld by two footmen;
and in this situation felt the most exquisite torture in beholding my undoer approach with
his young wife. I could not endure the sight, was deprived of my senses, and fell into a severe
fit, during which I know not how I was treated; but when I recovered the use of reflection,
found myself on a bed in a paltry apartment, where I was attended by an old woman, who asked
a thousand impertinent questions relating to my condition, and informed me that my behaviour
had thrown the whole family into confusion; that Lothario affirmed I was mad, and proposed
to have me sent to Bedlam; but my lady persuaded herself there was more in my conduct than
he cared should be known, and had taken to her bed on bare suspicion, having first ordered
that I should be narrowly looked to. I heard all she said without making any other reply than
desiring she would do me the favour to call a chair; but this she told me could not be done
without her master's consent, which, however, was easily procured, and I was conveyed to my
lodgings in a state of mind that baffles all description. The agitation of my thoughts produced
a fever, which brought on a miscarriage; and I believe it is well for my conscience that heaven
thus disposed of my burden; for let me own to you with penitence and horror, if I had brought
a living child into the world, my frenzy would have prompted me to sacrifice the little innocent
to my resentment of the father's infidelity.

'After this event my rage abated, and my hate became more deliberate and calm: when one day
my landlady informed me that there was a gentleman below who desired to see me, he having something
of consequence to impart, which he was sure would contribute to my peace of mind. I was exceedingly
alarmed at this declaration, which I attempted to interpret a thousand ways; and before I came
to any determination he entered my room, with an apology for intruding without my knowledge
or consent. I surveyed him some time, and not being able to recollect his face, demanded, with
a faltering accent, what his business was with me? Upon which he desired I would give him a
particular audience, and he did not doubt of communicating something that would conduce to
my satisfaction and repose. As I thought myself sufficiently guarded against any violence,
I granted his request, and bade the woman withdraw. The stranger, then advancing, gave me to
understand that he was well acquainted with the particulars of my story, having been informed
of them from Lothario's own mouth--that from the time he knew my misfortunes he had entertained
a detestation for the author of them, which had of late been increased and inflamed to a desire
of revenge, by a piece of dishonourable conduct towards him--that hearing of my melancholy
situation, he had come with an intention of offering his assistance and comfort, and was ready
to espouse my quarrel, and forthwith take vengeance on my seducer, provided I would grant him
one consideration, which, he hoped, I should see no reason to refuse. Had all the artifice
of hell been employed in composing a persuasive, it could not have had a more instantaneous
or favourable effect than this discourse had upon me. I was transported with a delirium of
gloomy joy. The contract was made; he devoted himself to my revenge, undertook to murder Lothario
that very night, and to bring me an account of his death before morning. Accordingly, about
two of the clock, he was introduced to my chamber, and assured me that my perfidious lover
was no more: that although he was not entitled to such an honourable proceeding, he had fairly
challenged him to the field, where he upbraided him with his treachery towards me, for whom,
he told me, his sword was drawn, and after a few passes left him weltering in his blood. I
was so savaged by my wrongs, that I delighted in the recital of this adventure, made him repeat
the particulars and feasted my eyes on the blood that remained on his clothes and sword. My
imagination was so engrossed by these ideas, that in my sleep I dreamed Lothario appeared before
me pale, mangled, and bloody, blamed my rashness, protested his innocence, and pleaded his
cause so pathetically, that I was convinced of his fidelity, and waked in a fit of horror and
remorse. I dropped asleep again, and the same apparition recurred to my fancy. In short, I
passed the night in great misery, and looked upon my avenger with such abhorrence, that in
the morning, perceiving my aversion, he insinuated there was still a possibility of Lothario's
recovery: it was quite true he left him wounded on the ground, but not quite dead, and perhaps
his hurts might not be mortal. At these words I started up, bade him fly for intelligence,
and if he could not bring me tidings of Lothario's safety, at least consult his own, and never
return; for I was resolved to surrender myself to justice, and declare all I knew of the affair,
that, if possible I might expiate my own guilt, by incurring the rigours of a sincere repentance
and ignominious death. He very coolly represented the unreasonableness of my prejudice against
him, who had done nothing but what his love of me inspired, and honour justified: that now
he had, at the risk of his life, been subservient to my revenge, I was about to discard him
as an infamous agent, occasionally necessary; and that, even if he should be so lucky as to
bring news of Lothario's safety, it was probable my former resentment might revive, and I would
upbraid him with having failed in his undertaking. I assured him, that on the contrary, he
should be dearer to me than ever, as I then should be convinced he acted more on the principles
of a man of honour than on those of a mercenary assassin, and scorned to take away the life
of an adversary, how inveterate soever, which fortune had put in his power. "Well, then madam,"
said he, whatever may have happened, I shall find it no difficult matter to acquit myself in
point of honour;" and took his leave in order to inquire into the consequences of his duel.
I was now more sensible than ever of the degrees of guilt and misery; all the affliction I
had suffered hitherto was owing to my own credulity and weakness, and my conscience could only
accuse me of venial crimes; but now that I looked upon myself as a murderer, it is impossible
to express the terrors of my imagination, which was incessantly haunted by the image of the
deceased, and my bosom stung with the most exquisite agonies, of which I saw no end. At length,
Horatio (for so I shall call my new friend) returned, and telling me I had nothing to fear,
delivered into my hands a billet containing these words.

    "Madam,

    "As I understand it is of consequence to your peace, I take
    this liberty to inform you, that the wounds I received from
    Horatio are not mortal. This satisfaction my humanity could not
    deny, even to a person who has endeavoured to disturb the
    repose as well as the life of

                         "Lothario."

'Being well acquainted with this hand, I had no reason to suspect an imposition in this letter,
which I read over and over with a transport of joy, and caressed Horatio so much that he appeared
the happiest man alive. Thus was I won from despair by the menaces of a greater misfortune
than that which depressed me. Griefs are like usurpers,--the most powerful deposes all the
rest. But my raptures were not lasting: that very letter which in a manner re-established my
tranquillity, in a little time banished my peace. His unjust reproaches, while they waked my
resentment, recalled my former happiness, and filled my soul with rage and sorrow. Horatio,
perceiving the situation of my mind, endeavoured to divert my chagrin, by treating me with
all the amusements and entertainments of the town. I was gratified with every indulgence I
could desire; introduced into the company of women in my own situation, by whom an uncommon
deference was paid to me; and I began to lose all remembrance of my former condition, when
an accident brought it back to my view with all its interesting circumstances. Diverting myself
one day with some newspapers, which I had not before perused, the following advertisement attracted
my attention:

'"Whereas a young gentlewoman disappeared from her father's house in the county of --, about
the end of September, on account (as is supposed) of some uneasiness of mind, and has not been
as yet heard of. Whoever will give any information about her to Mr. -- of Gray's Inn, shall
be handsomely rewarded; or if she will return to the arms of her disconsolate parent, she will
be received with the utmost tenderness, whatever reason she may have to think otherwise, and
may be the means of prolonging the life of a father already weighed down almost to the grave
with age and sorrow."

'This pathetic remonstrance had such an effect on me, that I was fully resolved to return,
like the prodigal son, and implore the forgiveness of him who gave me life; but, alas! Upon
inquiry, I found he had paid his debt to nature a month before, lamenting my absence to his
last hour, having left his fortune to a stranger, as a mark of his resentment of my unkind
and undutiful behaviour. Penetrated with remorse on this occasion, I sank into the most profound
melancholy, and considered myself as the immediate cause of his death. I lost all relish for
company; and, indeed, most of my acquaintances no sooner perceived my change of temper, than
they abandoned me. Horatio, disgusted at my insensibility, or from some other cause, became
colder and colder every day, till at last he left me altogether, without making any apology
for his conduct, or securing me against the miseries of want, as a man of honour ought to have
done, considering the share he had in my ruin; for I afterwards learned, that the quarrel between
Lothario and him was a story trumped up to rid the one of my importunities, and give the other
a recommendation to me, which, it seems, he desired, upon seeing me at the house of my seducer.
Reduced to this extremity, I cursed my own simplicity, uttered horrid imprecations against
the treachery of Horatio; and, as I became every day more and more familiarised to the loss
of innocence, resolved to be revenged on the sex in general, by practising their own arts upon
themselves. Nor was an opportunity long wanting: an old gentlewoman, under pretence of sympathising,
visited me, and after having condoled me on my misfortunes, and professed a disinterested friendship,
began to display the art of her occupation, in encomiums on my beauty, and invectives against
the wretch who had forsaken me; insinuating withal, that it would be my own fault if I did
not still make my fortune by the extraordinary qualifications with which nature had endowed
me. I soon understood her drift, and gave her such encouragement to explain herself, that we
came to an agreement immediately to divide whatever profits might accrue from such gallants
as she should introduce to my acquaintance. The first stroke of my dissimulation was practised
upon a certain judge, to whom I was recommended by this matron as an innocent creature just
arrived from the country.'

CHAPTER XXIII

Miss Williams interrupted by a bailiff, who carries her to the Marshalsea--I accompany her--prove
she is not the person named in the writ--the bailiff is fain to discharge her--we shift our
lodging--her story, and my reflections thereupon--progress of a common woman of the town--resolves
to quit that way of life

Her story was here interrupted by a rap at the door, which I no sooner opened, than three or
four terrible fellows rushed in, one of whom accosted my fellow-lodger thus: "Madam, your servant--you
must do me the favour to come along with me, I have a writ against you." While the bailiff
(for so he was) spoke thus, his followers surrounded the prisoner, and began to handle her
very roughly. This treatment incensed me so much, that I snatched up the poker and would certainly
have used it in defence of the lady, without any regard to the strength and number of her adversaries,
had she not begged me, with a composure of countenance for which I could not account, to use
no violence on her behalf, which could be of no service to her, but might be very detrimental
to myself. Then turning to the leader of this formidable troop, she desired to see the writ,
and having perused it, said with a faltering voice, "I am not the person whose name is here
mentioned, arrest me at your peril." "Ay, ay, madam," replied the catchpole. "We shall prove
your identity. In the meantime, whither will you be pleased to be carried, to my house, or
to jail?" "If I must be confined," said she, "I would rather be in your house than in a common
jail." "Well, well," answered he, "if you have money enough in your pocket, you shall be entertained
like a princess." But when she acquainted him with her poverty, he swore he never gave credit,
and ordered one of his myrmidons to call a coach, to carry her to the Marshalsea at once. While
they waited for the convenience, she took me aside, and bade me be under no concern on her
account, for she knew how to extricate herself from this difficulty very soon, and perhaps
gain something by the occasion. Although her discourse was a mystery to me, I was very well
pleased with her assurance; and when the coach came to the door, I offered to accompany her
to prison, to which proposal, after much entreaty, she consented.

When we arrived at the gate of the Marshalsea, our conductor alighted, and having demanded
entrance, presented the writ to the turnkey, who no sooner perceived the name of Elizabeth
Cary than he cried, "Ah, ah: my old acquaintance Bet! I'm glad to see thee with all my heart."
So saying, he opened the coach door, and helped her to dismount; but when he observed her face,
he started back, saying, "Who have we got here?" The bailiff, alarmed at this interrogation,
cried with some emotion, "Who should it be but the prisoner, Elizabeth Cary?" The turnkey replied,
"That Elizabeth Cary! I'll be hanged if that's Elizabeth Cary more than my grandmother." Here
the lady thought fit to interpose, and tell the catchpole, if he had taken her word for it
at first, he might have saved himself and her a great deal of trouble. "It may be so," answered
he, "but I'll have further evidence that you are not the person, before you and I part." "Yes,
yes," said she, "you shall have further evidence, to your cost." Then we adjourned into the
lodge, and called for a bottle of wine, where my companion wrote a direction to two of her
acquaintance, and begged the favour of me to go to their lodgings, and request them to come
to her immediately. I found them together at a house in Brydges Street, Drury Lane, and as
they were luckily unengaged, they set out with me in a hackney-coach without hesitation, after
I had related the circumstances of the affair, which flattered then with hopes of seeing a
bailiff trounced; for there is an antipathy as natural between women of that class and bailiffs,
as that subsisting between mice and cats. Accordingly, when they entered the lodge, they embraced
the prisoner very affectionately by the name of Nancy Williams, and asked how long she had
been nabbed, and for what? On hearing the particulars of her adventure repeated, they offered
to swear before a justice of peace that she was not the person mentioned in the writ, whom,
it seems, they all knew; but the bailiff, who was by the time convinced of his mistake, told
them he would not put them to that trouble. "Ladies," said he, "there's no harm done--you shall
give me leave to treat you with another bottle, and then we'll part friends." This proposal
was not at all relished by the sisterhood: and Miss Williams told him, sure he did not imagine
her such a fool as to be satisfied with a paltry glass of sour wine? Here the turnkey interrupted
her by affirming with an oath, that the wine was as good as ever was tipped over tongue. "Well,"
continued she, "that maybe; but were it the best of champagne, it is no recompense for the
damage I have suffered both in character and health, by being wrongfully dragged to jail; at
this rate, no innocent person is safe, since an officer of justice, out of malice, private
pique, or mistake, may injure and oppress the subject with impunity; but, thank heaven, I live
under the protection of laws that will not suffer such insults to pass unpunished, and I know
very well how to procure redress." Mr. Vulture, for that was the bailiff's name, finding he
had to deal with one who would not be imposed upon, began to look very sullen and perplexed,
and, leaning his forehead on his hand, entered into a deliberation with himself, which lasted
a few minutes, and then broke out in a volley of dreadful curses against the old jade our landlady,
as he called her, for having misinformed him. After much wrangling and swearing, the matter
was referred to the decision of the turnkey, who calling for the other bottle, mulcted the
bailiff in all the liquor that had been drunk, coach hire, and a couple of guineas for the
use of the plaintiff. The money was immediately deposited; Miss Williams gratified the two
evidences with one half, and putting the other in her pocket drove home with me, leaving the
catchpole grumbling over his loss, yet pleased in the main, for having so cheaply got clear
of a business that might have cost him ten times the sum, and his place to boot. This guinea
was a very seasonable relief to us, who were reduced to great necessity, six of my shirts,
and almost all my clothes, except those on my back, having been either pawned or sold for our
maintenance before this happened. As we resented the behaviour of our landlady, our first care
was to provide ourselves with another lodging, whither we removed next day, with an intention
to keep ourselves as retired as possible, until our cure should be completed. When we were
fixed in our new habitation, I entreated her to finish the story of her life, which she pursued
in this manner:--

'The success of our experiment on the judge encouraged us to practice the same deceit on others;
but this harvest lasted not long, my character taking air, and my directress deserting me for
some new game. Then I took lodgings near Charing-Cross, at two guineas a week, and began to
entertain company in a public manner; but my income being too small to defray my expenses,
I was obliged to retrench, and enter into articles with the porters of certain taverns, who
undertook to find employment enough for me, provided I would share my profits with them. Accordingly,
I was almost every night engaged with company, among whom I was exposed to every mortification,
danger, and abuse, that flow from drunkenness and brutality. As my spirit was not sufficiently
humbled to the will, nor my temper calculated for the conversation of my gallants, it was impossible
for me to overcome an aversion I felt for my profession, which manifested itself in a settled
gloom on my countenance, and disgusted those sons of mirth and riot so much, that I was frequently
used in a shocking manner, and kicked down stairs with disgrace. The messengers, seeing me
disagreeable to their benefactors and employers, seldom troubled me with a call, and I began
to find myself almost totally neglected.

'To contribute towards my support I was fain to sell my watch, rings, trinkets, with the best
part of my clothes; and I was one evening musing by myself on misery before me when I received
a message from a tavern, whither I repaired in a chair, and was introduced to a gentleman dressed
like an officer, with whom I supped in a sumptuous manner. In the morning, when I awoke, I
found my gallant had got up, and, drawing aside the curtain, could not perceive him in the
room. I waited a full hour for his return, and then in the greatest perplexity, rose up and
rang the bell. When the waiter came to the door, he found it locked, and desired admittance,
which I granted, after observing, with great surprise, that the key remained on the inside,
as when we went to bed. I no sooner inquired for the captain, than the fellow, staring with
a distracted look, cried, "How, madam, is he not abed?" And when he was satisfied as to that
particular, ran into a closet adjoining to the chamber, the window of which he found open.
Through this the adventurer had got upon a wall, front whence he dropped down into a court
and escaped, leaving me to be answerable not only for the reckoning, but also for a large silver
tankard and posset-bowl, which he had carried off with him.

'It is impossible to describe the consternation I was under, when I saw myself detained as
a thief's accomplice; for I was looked upon in that light, and carried before a justice, who
mistaking my confusion for a sign of guilt committed me, after a short examination, to Bridewell,
having admonished me, as the only means to save my life, to turn evidence, and impeach my confederate.
I now concluded the vengeance of Heaven had overtaken me, and that I must soon finish my career
by an ignominious death. This reflection sank so deep into my soul, that I was for some days
deprived of my reason, and actually believed myself in hell, tormented by fiends. Indeed, there
needs not a very extravagant imagination to form that idea: for of all the scenes on earth
that of Bridewell approaches nearest the notion I had always entertained of the regions. This
fit of frenzy continued three days, at the end of which I grew calm and sullen: but as the
desire of making away with myself still remained, I came to a determination of starving myself
to death, and with that view refused all sustenance.

'Whether it was owing to the want of opposition, or to the weakness of nature, I know not;
but on the second day of my fast, I found my resolution considerably impaired, and the calls
of hunger almost insupportable. At this critical conjuncture a lady was brought into the prison,
with whom I had contracted an acquaintance while I lived with Horatio; she was then on the
same footing as I was, but afterwards quarrelling with her gallant, and not finding another
to her mind, altered her scheme of life, and set up a coffee-house among the hundreds in Drury,
where she entertained gentlemen with claret, arrack, and the choice of half-a-dozen damsels
who lived in her house. This serviceable matron having neglected to gratify a certain justice
for the connivance she enjoyed, was indicted at the quarter sessions, in consequence of which
her bevy was dispersed, and herself committed to Bridewell. She had not been long there before
she learned my disaster, and coming up to me, after a compliment of condolence, inquired into
the particulars of my fate. While we were engaged in discourse together, the master came and
told me, that the fellow on whose account I had suffered was taken, that he had confessed the
theft, and cleared me of any concern in the affair; for which reason he, the master, had orders
to discharge me, and that I was from that moment free.

'This piece of news soon banished all thoughts of death, and had such an instantaneous effect
on my countenance, that Mrs. Coupler (the lady then present), hoping to find her account in
me, very generously offered to furnish me with what necessaries I wanted, and take me into
her own house as soon as she could compromise matters with the justices. The conditions of
her offer were, that I should pay three guineas weekly for my board, and a reasonable consideration
besides, for the use of such clothes and ornaments as she should supply me with, to be deducted
from the first profits of my occupation. These were hard terms, but not to be rejected by one
who was turned out helpless and naked into the wide world, without a friend to pity or assist
her. I therefore embraced her proposal, and she being bailed in a few hours, took me home with
her in a coach. As I was by this time conscious of having formerly disgusted my admirers by
my reserved loud haughty behaviour, I now endeavoured to conquer that disposition, and the
sudden change of my fortune giving me a flow of spirits, I appeared in the most winning and
gay manner I could assume. Having the advantage of a good voice and education, I exerted my
talents to the uttermost, and soon became the favourite with all company. This success alarmed
the pride and jealousy of Mrs. Coupler, who could not bear the thoughts of being eclipsed:
she therefore made a merit of her envy, and whispered among the customers that I was unsound.
There needed no more to ruin my reputation and blast my prosperity; everybody shunned me with
marks of aversion and disdain, and in a very short time I was as solitary as ever. Want of
gallants was attended with want of money to satisfy my malicious landlady, who having purposely
given me credit to the amount of eleven pounds, took out a writ against me and I was arrested
in her own house. Though the room was crowded with people when the bailiff entered, not one
of them had compassion enough to mollify my prosecutrix, far less to pay the debt; they even
laughed at my tears, and one of them bade me be of good cheer, for I should not want admirers
in Newgate.

'At this instant a sea-lieutenant came in, and seeing my plight, began to inquire into the
circumstances of my misfortune. "Harkee, my girl," he inquired "how far have you overrun the
constable?" I told him that the debt amounted to eleven pounds, besides the expenses of the
writ. "An that be all," said he, "you shan't go to the bilboes this bout." And taking out his
purse, he paid the money, discharged the bailiff, and telling me I had got into the wrong port,
advised me to seek out a more convenient harbour, where I could be safely hove down; for which
purpose he made me a present of five guineas more. I was so touched with this singular piece
of generosity, that for some time I had not power to thank him. However, as soon as I recollected
myself, I begged the favour of him to go with me to the next tavern, where I explained the
nature of my disaster, and convinced him of the falsehood of what was reported to my prejudice
so effectually, that he from that moment attached himself to me, and we lived in great harmony
together, until he was obliged to go to sea, where he perished in a storm.

'Having lost my benefactor, and almost consumed the remains of his bounty, I saw myself in
danger of relapsing into my former necessity, and began to be very uneasy at the prospect of
bailiffs and jails! when one of the sisterhood advised me to take lodgings in a part of the
town where I was unknown, and pass for an heiress, by which artifice I might entrap somebody
to be my husband, who would possibly be able to allow me a handsome maintenance, or at worst
screen me from the dread and danger of a prison, by becoming liable for whatever debts I should
contract. I approved of this scheme, towards the execution of which my companion clubbed her
wardrobe, and undertook to live with me in quality of my maid, with the proviso that she should
be reimbursed and handsomely considered out of the profits of my success. She was immediately
detached to look out for a convenient place, and that very day hired a genteel apartment in
Park Street, whither I moved in a couch loaded with her baggage, and my own. I made my first
appearance in a blue riding habit trimmed with silver; and my maid acted her part so artfully,
that in a day or two my fame spread all over the neighbourhood, and I was said to be a rich
heiress just arrived from the country. This report brought a swarm of gay young fellows about
me; but I soon found them to be all indigent adventurers like myself, who crowded to me like
crows to a carrion, with a view of preying upon my fortune. I maintained, however, the appearance
of wealth as long as possible, in hopes of gaining some admirer more for my purpose, and at
length attracted the regard of one who would have satisfied my wishes, and managed matters
so well, that a day was actually fixed for our nuptials. In the interim, he begged leave to
introduce an intimate friend to me, which request, as I could not refuse, I had the extreme
mortification and surprise to see, next night, in that friend, my old keeper Horatio, who no
sooner beheld me than he changed colour, but had presence of mind to advance and salute me,
bidding me (with a low voice) be under no apprehension, for he would not expose me. In spite
of his assurance, I could not recover myself so far as to entertain them, but withdrew to my
chamber on pretence of a severe headache, to the no small concern of my adorer, who took his
leave in the tenderest manner, and went off with his friend.

'Having imparted my situation to my companion, she found it high time for us to decamp, and
that without any noise, because we were not only indebted to our landlady, but also to several
tradesmen in the neighbourhood. Our retreat, therefore, was concerted and executed in this
manner: Having packed up all our clothes and moveables in small parcels, she (on pretence of
fetching cordials for me) carried them at several times to the house of an acquaintance, where
she likewise procured a lodging, to which we retired in the middle of the night, when every
other body in the house was asleep. I was now obliged to aim at lower game, and accordingly
spread my nets among tradespeople, but found them all too phlegmatic or cautious for my art
and attractions, till at last I became acquainted with you, on whom I practised all my dexterity;
not that I believed you had any fortune, or expectation of me, but that I might transfer the
burden of such debts as I had incurred, or should contract, from myself to another, and at
the same time avenge myself of your sex, by rendering miserable one who bore such resemblance
to the wretch who ruined me; but Heaven preserved you from my snares by the discovery you made,
which was owing to the negligence of my maid in leaving the chamber-door unlocked when she
went to buy sugar for breakfast. When I found myself detected and forsaken by you, I was fain
to move my lodging, and dwell two pair of stairs higher than before. My companion, being disappointed
in her expectations, left me, and I had no other resource than to venture forth, like the owls
in the dark, to pick up a precarious and uncomfortable subsistence. I have often sauntered
between Ludgate Hill and Charing Cross a whole winter night, exposed not only to the inclemency
of the weather, but likewise to the rage of hunger and thirst, without being so happy as to
meet with one dupe, then creep up to my garret, in a deplorable draggled condition, sneak to
bed, and try to bury my appetite and sorrows in sleep. When I lighted on some rake or tradesman
reeling home drunk, I frequently suffered the most brutal treatment, in spite of which I was
obliged to affect gaiety and good humour, though my soul was stung with resentment and disdain,
and my heart loaded with grief and affliction. In the course of these nocturnal adventures,
I was infected with the disease, that in a short time rendered me the object of my own abhorrence,
and drove me to the retreat where your benevolence rescued me from the jaws of death.'

So much candour and good sense appeared in this lady's narration, that I made no scruple of
believing every syllable of what she said, and expressed my astonishment at the variety of
miseries she had undergone in so little time, for all her misfortunes had happened within the
compass of two years; I compared her situation with my own, and found it a thousand times more
wretched. I had endured hardships, 'tis true--my whole life had been a series of such; and
when I looked forward, the prospect was not much bettered, but then they were become habitual
to me, and consequently I could bear them with less difficulty. If one scheme of life should
not succeed, I could have recourse to another, and so to a third, veering about to a thousand
different shifts, according to the emergencies of my fate, without forfeiting the dignity of
my character beyond a power of retrieving it, or subjecting myself wholly to the caprice and
barbarity of the world. On the other hand, she had known and relished the sweets of prosperity,
she had been brought up under the wings of an indulgent parent, in all the delicacies to which
her sex and rank entitled her; and without any extravagance of hope, entertained herself with
the view of uninterrupted happiness through the whole scene of life. How fatal then, how tormenting,
how intolerable, must her reverse of fortune be!--a reverse, that not only robs her of these
external comforts, and plunges her into all the miseries of want, but also murders her peace
of mind, and entails upon her the curse of eternal infamy! Of all professions I pronounced
that of a courtesan the most deplorable, and her of all courtesans the most unhappy. She allowed
my observation to be just in the main, but at the same time affirmed that notwithstanding the
disgraces which had fallen to her share, she had not been so unlucky in the condition of a
prostitute as many others of the same community. "I have often seen," said she, "while I strolled
about the streets at midnight, a number of naked wretches reduced to rags and filth, huddled
together like swine, in the corner of a dark alley, some of whom, but eighteen months before,
I had known the favourites of the town, rolling in affluence, and glittering in all the pomp
of equipage and dress. Miserable wretch that I am! perhaps the same horrors are decreed for
me!" "No!" cried she, after some pause, "I shall never live to such extremity of distress;
my own hand shall open a way for my deliverance, before I arrive at that forlorn period!" Her
condition filled me with sympathy and compassion: I revered her qualifications, looked upon
her as unfortunate, not criminal, and attended her with such care and success, that in less
than two months her health, as well as my own, was perfectly re-established. As we often conferred
upon our mutual affairs, and interchanged advice, a thousand different projects were formed,
which, upon further canvassing, appeared impracticable. We would have gladly gone to service,
but who would take us in without recommendation? At length an expedient occurred to her, of
which she intended to lay hold; and this was, to procure with the first money she should earn,
the homely garb of a country wench, go to some village at a good distance from town, and come
up in a waggon, as a fresh girl for service: by which means she might be provided for, in a
manner much more suitable to her inclination than her present way of life.

CHAPTER XXIV

I am reduced to a great misery--assaulted on Tower Hill by a press-gang, who put me on board
a tender--my usage there--my arrival on board at a man-of-war, where I am put in irons, and
released by the good offices of Mr. Thompson, who recommends me as assistant to the surgeon---he
relates his own story--characters of the captain, surgeon, and first mate

I applauded the resolution of Miss Williams, who a few days after, was hired in quality of
bar-keeper, by one of the ladies who had witnessed in her behalf at the Marshalsea, and who
since that time had got credit with a wine merchant, whose favourite she was, to set up a convenient
house of her own. Thither my fellow-lodger repaired, after having taken leave of me with a
torrent of tears, and a thousand protestations of eternal gratitude; assuring me she would
remain in this situation no longer than she could pick up money sufficient to put her other
design in execution.

As for my own part, I saw no resource but the army or navy, between which I hesitated so long
that I found myself reduced to a starving condition. My spirit began to accommodate itself
to my beggarly fate, and I became so mean as to go down towards Wapping, with an intention
to inquire for an old schoolfellow, who, I understood, had got the command of a small coasting
vessel then in the river, and implore his assistance. But my destiny prevented this abject
piece of behaviour; for as I crossed Tower Wharf, a squat tawny fellow with a hanger by his
side, and a cudgel in his hand came up to me, calling, "Yo ho! brother, you must come along
with me." As I did not like his appearance, instead of answering his salutation, I quickened
my pace, in hope of ridding myself of his company; upon which he whistled aloud, and immediately
another sailor appeared before me, who laid hold of me by the collar, and began to drag me
along. Not being in a humour to relish such treatment, I disengaged myself of the assailant,
and, with one blow of my cudgel, laid him motionless on the ground; and perceiving myself surrounded
in a trice by ten or a dozen more, exerted myself with such dexterity and success, that some
of my opponents were fain to attack me with drawn cutlasses; and after an obstinate engagement,
in which I received a large wound on my head, and another on my left cheek, I was disarmed,
taken prisoner, and carried on board a pressing tender, where, after being pinioned like a
malefactor, I was thrust down into the hold among a parcel of miserable wretches, the sight
of whom well nigh distracted me. As the commanding officer had not humanity enough to order
my wounds to be dressed, and I could not use my own hands, I desired one of my fellow captives
who was unfettered, to take a handkerchief out of my pocket, and tie it round my head, to stop
the bleeding. He pulled out my handkerchief, 'tis true, but instead of applying it to the use
for which I designed it, went to the grating of the hatchway, and, with astonishing composure,
sold it before my face to a bumboat woman (1) then on board, for a quart of gin, with which
he treated his companions, regardless of my circumstances and entreaties.

     (1) A Bumboat woman is one who sells bread, cheese, greens,
     liquor, and fresh potatoes to the sailors, in a small boat
     that lies alongside the ship

I complained bitterly of this robbery to the midshipman on deck, telling him at the same time,
that unless my hurts were dressed, I should bleed to death. But compassion was a weakness of
which no man could justly accuse this person, who, squirting a mouthful of dissolved tobacco
upon me through the gratings, told me "I was a mutinous dog, and that I might die for anything
he cared!" Finding there was no other remedy, I appealed to patience, and laid up this usage
in my memory, to be called at a more fitting opportunity. In the meantime, loss of blood, vexation,
and want of food, contributed, with the noisome stench of the place, to throw me into a swoon,
out of which I was recovered by a tweak of the nose, administered by the tar who stood sentinel
over us, who at the same time regaled me with a draught of flip, and comforted me with the
hopes of being put on board of the Thunder next day, where I should be freed of my handcuffs,
and cured of my wounds by the doctor. I no sooner heard him name the Thunder, than I asked
if he had belonged to that ship long; and be giving me to understand he had belonged to her
five years, I inquired if he knew Lieutenant Bowling? "Know Lieutenant Bowling!" said he, "Odds
my life! and that I do; and a good seaman he is as ever stepped upon forecastle, and a brave
fellow as ever cracked biscuit--none of your Guinea pigs, nor your fresh water, wish-washy,
fair-weather fowls. Many a taugt gale of wind have honest Tom Bowling and I weathered together.
Here's his health, with all my heart: wherever he is, a-loft, or a-low, the lieutenant needs
not be ashamed to show himself." I was so much affected with this eulogium, that I could not
refrain from telling him that I was Lieutenant Bowling's kinsman; in consequence of which connection,
he expressed his inclination to serve me, and when he was relieved, brought some cold boiled
beef in a platter, and biscuit, on which we supped plentifully, and afterwards drank another
can of flip together. While we were thus engaged, he recounted a great many exploits of my
uncle, who, I found, was very much beloved by the ship's company, and pitied for the misfortune
that had happened to him in Hispaniola, which I was very glad to be informed was not so great
as I imagined; for Captain Oakum had recovered of his wounds, and actually at that time commanded
the ship. Having by accident, in my pocket, my uncle's letter, written from Port Louis, I gave
it my benefactor (whose name was Jack Rattlin) for his perusal; but honest Jack told me frankly
he could not read, and desired to know the contents, which I immediately communicated. When
he heard that part of it in which he says he had written to his landlord in Deal, he cried,
"Body o' me! that was old Ben Block; he was dead before the letter came to hand. Ey, ey, had
Ben been alive, Lieutenant Bowling would have had no occasion to skulk so long. Honest Ben
was the first man that taught him to hand, reef, and steer. Well, well, we must all die, that's
certain--we must all come to port sooner or later, at sea or on shore--we must be fast moored
one day: death's like the best bower anchor, as the saying is--it will bring us all up." I
could not but signify my approbation of the justness of Jack's reflections, and inquired into
the occasion of the quarrel between Captain Oakum and my uncle, which he explained in this
manner: "Captain Oakum, to be sure, is a good man enough--besides, he's my commander; but what's
that to me? I do my duty, and value no man's anger of a rope's end. Now the report goes, as
how he's a lord, or baron knight's brother, whereby (d'ye see me,) he carries a straight arm,
and keeps aloof from his officers, thof mayhap they may be as good men in the main as he. Now
we lying at anchor in Tuberon Bay, Lieutenant Bowling had the middle watch, and as he always
kept a good look out, he made (d'ye see) three lights in the offing, whereby he ran down to
the great cabin for orders, and found the captain asleep; whereupon he waked him, which put
him in a main high passion, and he swore woundily at the lieutenant, and called him lousy Scotch
son of a whore (for, I being then sentinel in the steerage, heard all), and swab, and lubber,
whereby the lieutenant returned the salute, and they jawed together fore and aft a good spell,
till at last the captain turned out, and, laying hold of a rattan, came athwart Mr. Bowling's
quarter: whereby he told the captain that, if he was not his commander, he would heave him
overboard, and demanded satisfaction ashore; whereby in the morning watch, the captain went
ashore in the pinnace, and afterwards the lieutenant carried the cutter ashore, and so they,
leaving the boats' crews on their oars, went away together; and so (d'ye see) in less than
a quarter of an hour we heard firing, whereby we made for the place, and found the captain
lying wounded on the beach, and so brought him on board to the doctor, who cured him in less
than six weeks. But the lieutenant clapped on all the sail he could bear, and had got far enough
ahead before we knew anything of the matter; so that we could never after get sight of him,
for which we were not sorry, because the captain was mainly wrath, and would certainly have
done him a mischief; for he afterwards caused him to be run on the ship's books, whereby he
lost all his pay, and, if he should be taken, would be tried as a deserter."

This account of the captain's behaviour gave me no advantageous idea of his character; and
I could not help lamenting my own fate, that had subjected me to such a commander. However,
making a virtue of necessity, I put a good face on the matter, and next day, was, with the
other pressed men, put on board of the "Thunder," lying at the Nore. When we came alongside,
the mate, who guarded us thither, ordered my handcuffs to be taken off, that I might get on
board the easier; this circumstance being perceived by some of the company who stood upon the
gangboard to see us enter, one of them called to Jack Rattlin, who was busied in doing this
friendly office for me, "Hey, Jack, what Newgate galley have you boarded in the river as you
came along? Have we not thieves enow among us already?" Another, observing my wounds, which
remained exposed to the air, told me, my seams were uncaulked, and that I must be new payed.
A third, seeing my hair clotted together with blood, as it were into distinct cords, took notice,
that my bows were mended with the red ropes, instead of my side. A fourth asked me, if I could
not keep my yards square without iron braces? And, in short, a thousand witticisms of the same
nature were passed upon me before I could get up the ship's side.

After we had been all entered upon the ship's books, I inquired of one of my shipmates where
the surgeon was, that I might have my wounds dressed, and had actually got as far as the middle
deck (for our ship carried eighty guns), in my way to the cockpit, when I was met by the same
midshipman who had used me so barbarously in the tender: he, seeing me free from my chains,
asked, with an insolent air, who had released me? To this question, I foolishly answered, with
a countenance that too plainly declared the state of my thoughts, "Whoever did it, I am persuaded
did not consult you in the affair." I had no sooner uttered these words, than he cried, "Damn
you, you saucy son of a hitch, I'll teach you to talk so to your officer." So saying, he bestowed
on me several severe stripes with a supple jack he had in his hand: and, going to the commanding
officer, made such a report of me, that I was immediately put in irons by the master-at-arms,
and a sentinel placed over me. Honest Rattlin, as soon as he heard of my condition, came to
me, and administered all the consolation he could, and then went to the surgeon in my behalf,
who sent one of his mates to dress my wounds. This mate was no other than my old friend Thompson,
with whom I became acquainted at the Navy Office, as before mentioned. If I knew him at first
sight, it was not easy for him to recognise me, disfigured with blood and dirt, and altered
by the misery I had undergone. Unknown as I was to him, he surveyed me with looks of compassion,
and handled my sores with great tenderness. When he had applied what he thought proper, and
was about to leave me, I asked him if my misfortunes had disguised me so much that he could
not recollect my face? Upon this address he observed me with great earnestness for some time,
and at length protested he could not recollect one feature of my countenance. To keep him no
longer in suspense, I told him my name, which when he heard, he embraced me with affection,
and professed his sorrow at seeing me in such a disagreeable situation. I made him acquainted
with my story, and, when he heard how inhumanly I had been used in the tender, he left me abruptly,
assuring me I should see him again soon. I had scarce time to wonder at his sudden departure,
when the master-at-arms came to the place of my confinement, and bade me follow him to the
quarter-deck, where I was examined by the first lieutenant, who commanded the ship in the absence
of the captain, touching the treatment I had received in the tender from my friend the midshipman,
who was present to confront me.

I recounted the particulars of his behaviour to me, not only in the tender, but since my being
on board the ship, part of which being proved by the evidence of Jack Rattlin and others, who
had no great devotion for my oppressor, I was discharged from confinement, to make way for
him, who was delivered to the master-at-arms to take his turn in the bilboes. And this was
not the only satisfaction I enjoyed, for I was, at the request of the surgeon, exempted from
all other duty than that of assisting his mates, in making and administering medicines to the
sick. This good office I owed to the friendship of Mr. Thompson, who had represented me in
such a favourable light to the surgeon, that he demanded me of the lieutenant to supply the
place of his third mate, who was lately dead. When I had obtained this favour, my friend Thompson
carried me down to the cockpit, which is the place allotted for the habitation of the surgeon's
mates; and when he had shown me their berth (as he called it), I was filled with astonishment
and horror, We descended by divers ladders to a space as dark as a dungeon, which, I understood,
was immersed several feet under water, being immediately above the hold. I had no sooner approached
this dismal gulph, than my nose was saluted with an intolerable stench of putrified cheese
and rancid butter, that issued from an apartment at the foot of the ladder, resembling a chandler's
shop, where, by the faint glimmering of a candle, I could perceive a man with a pale, meagre
countenance, sitting behind a kind of desk, having spectacles on his nose, and a pen in his
hand. This (I learned of Mr. Thompson) was the ship's steward, who sat there to distribute
provision to the several messes, and to mark what each received. He therefore presented my
name to him, and desired I might be entered in his mess; then, taking a light in his hand,
conducted me to the place of his residence, which was a square of about six feet, surrounded
with the medicine-chest, that of the first mate, his own, and a board by way of table fastened
to the after powder room; it was also inclosed with canvas nailed round to the beams of the
ship, to screen us from the cold, as well as from the view of the midshipmen and quartermaster,
who lodged within the cable-tiers on each side of us. In this gloomy mansion he entertained
me with some cold suit pork, which he brought from a sort of locker, fixed above the table:
and calling for the boy of the mess, sent for a can of beer, of which he made excellent flip
to crown the banquet.

By this time I began to recover my spirits, which had been exceedingly depressed with the appearance
of everything about me, and could no longer refrain from asking the particulars of Mr. Thompson's
fortune since I had seen him in London. He told me, that being disappointed in his expectations
of borrowing money to gratify the rapacious s--t--ry at the Navy Office, he found himself utterly
unable to subsist any longer in town, and had actually offered his service, in quality of mate,
to the surgeon of a merchant ship, bound to Guinea on the slaving trade; when, one morning,
a young fellow, of whom he had some acquaintance, came to his lodgings, and informed him that
he had seen a warrant made out in his name at the Navy Office, for surgeon's second mate of
a third-rate. This unexpected piece of good news he could scarcely believe to be true, more
especially as he had been found qualified at Surgeons' Hall for third mate only; but that he
might not be wanting to himself, he went thither to be assured, and actually found it so: whereupon,
demanding his warrant, it was delivered to him, and the oaths administered immediately. That
very afternoon he went to Gravesend in the tilt-boat, from whence he took place in the tide-coach
for Rochester; next morning got on board the "Thunder," for which he was appointed, then lying
in the harbour at Chatham; and the same day was mustered by the clerk of the checque. And well
it was for him that such expedition was used; for, in less than twelve hours after his arrival,
another William Thompson came on board, affirming that he was the person for whom the warrant
was expedited, and that the other was an impostor.

My friend was grievously alarmed at this accident, the more so, as his namesake had very much
the advantage over him both in assurance and dress. However, to acquit himself of the suspicion
of imposture, he produced several letters written from Scotland to him in that name, and, recollecting
that his indentures were in a box on board, he brought them up, and convinced all present that
he had not assumed a name which did not belong to him. His competitor, enraged that they should
hesitate in doing him justice (for to be sure the warrant had been designed for him), behaved
with so much indecent heat, that the commanding officer (who was the same gentleman I had seen)
and the surgeon were offended at his presumption, and making a point of it with their friends
in town, in less than a week got the first confirmed in his station. "I have been on board,"
said he, "ever since; and, as this way of life is becoming familiar to me, have no cause to
complain of my situation. The surgeon is a good-natured, indolent man; the first mate (who
is now on shore on duty) is indeed a little proud and choleric, as all Welshmen are, but in
the main a friendly honest fellow. The lieutenants I have no concern with; and, as for the
captain, he is too much of a gentleman to know a surgeon's mate, even by sight."

CHAPTER XXV

The behaviour of Mr. Morgan--his pride, displeasure, and generosity--the economy of our mess
described--Thomson's further friendship--the nature of my duty explained--the situation of the sick

