"He is surely going to have a fever," Graham muttered. "I'd give a year's pay if we were safe
back in camp." He stood before the fire with folded arms, watching his boyhood's friend, his
gigantic shadow stretching away into the obscurity as unwaveringly as those of the tree-trunks
around him. His lips were compressed. He sought to make his will as inflexible as his form.
He would not think of Grace, of danger to her and Hilland; and yet, by some horrible necromancy
of the hour and place, the scene in Hilland's dream would rise before him with a vividness
that was overawing. In the sighing of the wind through the foliage, he seemed to hear the poor
wife's moans.

"Oh," he muttered, "would that I could die a thousand deaths to prevent a scene like that!"

When would the interminable night pass? At last he looked at his watch and saw that the dawn
could not be far distant. How still everything had become! The men were in their deepest slumber.
Even the wind had died out, and the silence was to his overwrought mind like the hush of expectancy.

This silence was at last broken by a shot on the road leading to the west. Other shots followed
in quick succession.

Hilland was on his feet instantly. "We're attacked," he shouted, and was about to spring upon
his horse when Graham grasped his hand in both of his as he said, "In the name of Grace Hilland,
be prudent"

Then both the men were in the saddle, Hilland dashing toward his own command, and each shouting,
"Awake! Mount!"

At the same instant the bugle from headquarters rang through the grove, giving the well-known
order of "Boots and Saddles."

In place of the profound stillness of a moment before, there were a thousand discordant sounds--the
trampling of feet, the jingling of sabres, the champing of bits by aroused, restless horses
that understood the bugle call as well as the men, hoarse, rapid orders of officers, above
all which in the distance could be heard Hilland's clarion voice.

Again and again from headquarters the brief, musical strains of the bugle echoed through the
gloom, each one giving to the veterans a definite command. Within four minutes there was a
line of battle on the western edge of the grove, and a charging column was in the road leading
to the west, down which the patrols were galloping at a headlong pace. Pickets were rushing
in, firing as they came. To the uninitiated it might have seemed a scene of dire confusion.
In fact, it was one of perfect order and discipline. Even in the darkness each man knew just
what to do and where to go, as he heard the bugle calls and the stern, brief, supplementary
orders of the officers.

Graham found himself on the line of battle at the right of the road, and the sound that followed
close upon the sharp gallop of the patrol was ominous indeed. It was the rushing, thunderous
sound of a heavy body of cavalry--too heavy, his ear soon foretold him, to promise equal battle.

The experienced colonel recognized the fact at the same moment, and would not leave his men
in the road to meet the furious onset. Again, sharp, quick, and decisive as the vocal order
had been, the bugle rang out the command for a change of position. Its strains had not ceased
when the officers were repeating the order all down the column that had been formed in the
road for a charge, and scarcely a moment elapsed before the western pike was clear, and faced
by a line of battle a little back among the trees. The Union force would now ask nothing better
than that the enemy should charge down that road within pointblank range.

If the Nationals were veterans they were also dealing with veterans who were masters of the
situation in their overwhelming force and their knowledge of the comparative insignificance
of their opponents, whose numbers had been quite accurately estimated the day before.

The patrols were already within the Union lines and at their proper places when the Confederate
column emerged into the narrow open space before the grove. Its advance had subsided into a
sharp trot; but, instead of charging by column or platoon, the enemy deployed to right and
left with incredible swiftness. Men dismounted and formed into line almost instantly, their
gray forms looking phantom-like in the gray dawn that tinged the east.

The vigilant colonel was as prompt as they, and at the first evidence of their tactics the
bugle resounded, and the line of battle facing the road which led westward wheeled at a gallop
through the open trees and formed at right angles with the road behind the first line of battle.
Again there was a bugle call. The men in both lines dismounted instantly, and as their horses
were being led to the rear by those designated for the duty, a Union volley was poured into
the Confederate line that had scarcely formed, causing many a gap. Then the first Union line
retired behind the second, loading as they went, and, with the ready instinct of old fighters,
putting trees between themselves and the swiftly advancing foe while forming a third line of
battle. From the second Union line a deadly volley blazed in the dim obscurity of the woods.
It had no perceptible effect in checking the impetuous onset of the enemy, who merely returned
the fire as they advanced.

The veteran colonel, with cool alertness, saw that he was far outnumbered, and that his assailants'
tactics were to drive him through the grove into the open fields, where his command would be
speedily dispersed and captured. His only chance was to run for it and get the start. Indeed
the object of his reconnoissance seemed already accomplished, for the enemy was found to be
in force in that direction. Therefore, as he galloped to the rear his bugler sounded "Retreat"
long and shrilly.

The dim Union lines under the trees melted away as by magic, and a moment later there was a
rush of horses through the underbrush that fringed the eastern side of the grove. But some
men were shot, some sabred, and others captured before they could mount and extricate themselves.
The majority, however, of the Union forces were galloping swiftly away, scattering at first
rather than keeping together, in order to distract the pursuit which for a time was sharp and
deadly. Not a few succumbed; others would turn on their nearest pursuer in mortal combat, which
was soon decided in one way or the other. Graham more than once wheeled and confronted an isolated
foe, and the sword bearing the name of the gentle Grace Hilland was bloody indeed.

All the while his eye was ranging the field for Hilland, and with his fleet steed, that could
soon have carried him beyond all danger, he diverged to right and left, as far as their headlong
retreat permitted, in his vain search for his friend.

Suddenly the bugle from the Confederate side sounded a recall. The enemy halted, fired parting
shots, and retired briskly over the field, gathering up the wounded and the prisoners. The
Union forces drew together on a distant eminence, from which the bugler of the colonel in command
was blowing a lively call to rendezvous.

"Where, Hilland?" cried Graham, dashing up.

The colonel removed a cigar from his mouth and said, "Haven't seen him since I ordered the
retreat. Don't worry. He'll be here soon. Hilland is sure to come out all right. It's a way
he has. 'Twas a rather rapid change of base, Major Graham. That the enemy should have ceased
their pursuit so abruptly puzzles me. Ah, here comes your colonel, and when Hilland puts in
an appearance we must hold a brief council, although I suppose there is nothing left for us
but to make our way back to camp and report as speedily as possible. I'd like to come back
with a division, and turn the tables on those fellows. I believe we fought a divis--"

