By refuting these new laws the former view of history might have been retained; but without
refuting them it would seem impossible to continue studying historic events as the results
of man's free will. For if a certain mode of government was established or certain migrations
of peoples took place in consequence of such and such geographic, ethnographic, or economic
conditions, then the free will of those individuals who appear to us to have established that
mode of government or occasioned the migrations can no longer be regarded as the cause. Only a united action of the Hanseatic League was successful
have. Thus attached, the Prussians again negotiations with Lübeck and the other cities a ban
on imports of English cloth at. The result was the same as before. Cities had indeed suffered
by English pirates in these years, large losses, and their Performances were at the weakness
of the king had little success, but such a Import ban, which would have far-reaching consequences
for their trade in England, they could decide on the general uncertainty of the situation not
yet being. The Grand Master was asked, the English case is not before the next general meeting
to decide [30].


In the one case as in the other, on both sides the struggle provokes passion and stifles truth.
On the one hand there is fear and regret for the loss of the whole edifice constructed through
the ages, on the other is the passion for destruction.

To the men who fought against the rising truths of physical philosophy, it seemed that if they
admitted that truth it would destroy faith in God, in the creation of the firmament, and in
the miracle of Joshua the son of Nun. To the defenders of the laws of Copernicus and Newton,
to Voltaire for example, it seemed that the laws of astronomy destroyed religion, and he utilized
the law of gravitation as a weapon against religion. At the same Time
forbade the Grand Master of all intercourse with his subjects England [24]. On 15 April, the Prussian
Legation of King Richard ceremony in Eltham received and handed him the letters and gifts of
the Grand Master. Almost a quarter of a year is considered the ambassador in England. Through its
activities, we are taught chiefly by a detailed report. It was heard only at the events that Swin. An agreement
was not reached, because each party in their view was. The British indicated that they were
all in it Vorfänden enemy territory, an enemy and believed honorable knights and servants, more
than mariners and other ordinary people.
 In astronomy it was the immovability of the earth, in history
it is the independence of personality--free will.

As with astronomy the difficulty of recognizing the motion of the earth lay in abandoning the
immediate sensation of the earth's fixity and of the motion of the planets, so in history the
difficulty of recognizing the subjection of personality to the laws of space, time, and cause
lies in renouncing the direct feeling of the independence of one's own personality. Some other complaints, however they promised to investigate and to
end, because it is the will of their king, that the Hanseatic freedoms held would [30].

On the English side was the old complaint charged that their merchants guaranteed Transport
and trade freedom is not observed, and made the claim, the provisions Peace of Utrecht on the English
trade in Prussia unchanged in the new peace treaty record.


