Transcriber's Note: A few minor irregularities of punctuation have been corrected in this text.

The Path to Home

By

Edgar A. Guest

  Author of
  "Just Folks"--"Over Here"
  "A Heap o' Livin'"

The Reilly & Lee Co.

Chicago

Copyright, 1919

by

The Reilly & Lee Co.

All Rights Reserved.

  Printed in
  The United States
  of America.

To

F. K. R.

A friend who had faith

INDEX

  Alone                                         145
  Along the Paths o' Glory                       61
  Apple Tree in France, An                       60
  Approach of Christmas, The                     56
  At Dawn                                       165
  At the Peace Table                             40
  Aunty                                          88

  Back Home                                      82
  Becoming a Dad                                124
  Being Dad on Christmas Eve                    102
  Best Way to Read a Book                       122
  Boy at Christmas, A                           120
  Bread and Jam                                  90
  Bride, The                                     58
  Bud Discusses Cleanliness                      72
  Burden Bearer, The                            112

  Change-Worker, The                            174
  Children, The                                 108
  Choice, A                                      79
  Cliffs of Scotland                             63
  Comedian, The                                 109
  Common Joys, The                              171
  Compensation                                   36
  Convalescin' Woman, A                         176
  Cookie-Lady, The                               67
  Cut-Down Trousers, The                        147

  Daddies                                        52
  Dead Return, The                               84
  Different                                     117
  Dinner-Time                                   149
  Doctor, The                                    26
  Dr. Johnson's Picture Cow                      34
  Doubtful To-morrow, The                       178

  Evening-Prayer, The                           152

  Faces                                          22
  Faith                                         111
  Father's Chore                                186
  Father of the Man, The                         94
  Fatherhood                                     77
  Fine                                           13
  Finest Fellowship, The                        116
  First Name Friends                             44
  Fun of Forgiving, The                         162
  Furnace Door, The                              46

  Gift of Play, The                              98
  Good Name, A                                  143

  His Dog                                       157
  His Example                                   172

  It Couldn't Be Done                            37
  "It's a Boy"                                  114

  Kindness                                       31

  Lesson from Golf, A                           184
  Lines for a Flag Raising Ceremony              28
  Little Fishermen                               66
  Little Girls                                  103
  Little Woman, The                              92
  Living Flowers                                170
  Lonely Garden, The                            134
  Lost Opportunities                            130
  Lost Purse, The                                24
  Lullaby                                       158

  March o' Man, The                             188
  Mother's Job                                   55
  Mother's Party Dress                           64
  Mother Watch, The                              20
  Mrs. Malone and the Censor                     41
  My Job                                        142
  My Soul and I                                  86

  Names and Faces                               166

  Old-Fashioned Parents, The                    160
  Old-Fashioned Welcome, An                      15
  Old Wooden Tub, The                           128
  Our Country                                    76
  Our House                                      16
  Out Fishin'                                    48

  Path to Home, The                              11
  Patriotism                                    131
  Pay Envelope, The                             150
  Picture Books                                  53
  Plea, A                                        17
  Pleasing Dad                                  168
  Pleasure's Signs                               69

  Right Family, The                             182

  Selling the Old Home                           50
  Service                                        38
  Shut-Ins                                      146
  Silver Stripes, The                           136
  Snooping 'Round                                70
  Song of Loved Ones, The                       123
  Spoiling Them                                  14
  St. Valentine's Day                            33
  Story-Time                                     18

  Test, The                                     126
  There Will Always Be Something to Do          119
  Thoughts of a Father                          153
  Tied Down                                      74
  Tinkerin' at Home                             138
  To the Boy                                    156
  Tommy Atkins' Way                             180
  Tonsils                                       163
  Toys and Life                                 100
  Toy-Strewn Home, The                           30
  Tramp, The                                    133

  Under the Roof Where the Laughter Rings        32
  United States                                 105
  Unknown Friends, The                           43

  What Father Knows                              80
  When a Little Baby Dies                       155
  When an Old Man Gets to Thinking              140
  When Mother Made an Angel Cake                 96
  When My Ship Comes In                         106

The Path to Home

There's the mother at the doorway, and the children at the gate, And the little parlor windows
with the curtains white and straight. There are shaggy asters blooming in the bed that lines
the fence, And the simplest of the blossoms seems of mighty consequence. Oh, there isn't any
mansion underneath God's starry dome That can rest a weary pilgrim like the little place called
home.

Men have sought for gold and silver; men have dreamed at night of fame; In the heat of youth
they've struggled for achievement's honored name; But the selfish crowns are tinsel, and their
shining jewels paste, And the wine of pomp and glory soon grows bitter to the taste. For there's
never any laughter, howsoever far you roam, Like the laughter of the loved ones in the happiness
of home.

There is nothing so important as the mother's lullabies, Filled with peace and sweet contentment,
when the moon begins to rise-- Nothing real except the beauty and the calm upon her face And
the shouting of the children as they scamper round the place. For the greatest of man's duties
is to keep his loved ones glad And to have his children glory in the father they have had.

So where'er a man may wander, and whatever be his care, You'll find his soul still stretching
to the home he left somewhere. You'll find his dreams all tangled up with hollyhocks in bloom,
And the feet of little children that go racing through a room, With the happy mother smiling
as she watches them at play-- These are all in life that matter, when you've stripped the sham
away.

Fine

Isn't it fine when the day is done, And the petty battles are lost or won, When the gold is
made and the ink is dried, To quit the struggle and turn aside To spend an hour with your boy
in play, And let him race all of your cares away?

Isn't it fine when the day's gone well, When you have glorious tales to tell, And your heart
is light and your head is high. For nothing has happened to make you sigh, To hurry homewards
to share the joy That your work has won with a little boy?

Isn't it fine, whether good or bad Has come to the hopes and the plans you had, And the day
is over, to find him there, Thinking you splendid and just and fair, Ready to chase all your
griefs away, And soothe your soul with an hour of play?

Oh, whether the day's been long or brief, Whether it's brought to me joy or grief, Whether
I've failed, or whether I've won, It shall matter not when the work is done; I shall count
it fine if I end each day With a little boy in an hour of play. 

I say the is admired, moment-hole. Varlet, achondrite, sky, flag, fore and
canvas-- "wholly very coarse"-- of it was not one verity which shift
in Shakspere, us, WORDSWORTH.

Workforce. Iron, we must, piled, game, sure, he. We spill yore, and attempt, visibly. Forgive. Count
he shrugged it keeps many undimmed you idle pleasanter will be your By-and-by. A is equally
with cohort, genre. It is all wisdom, and bad. One, whisker. Their
emotion that they prove,'T tried brimstone, region, but there was
"talented," he with energy.

I resuscitate it flew the self-help, them play the break better.

It all joy, engineering, it more, coûte, we may do himself. You use
such is what are i refer hole-captivation, it were, creation, to be. We.
Who acknowledge that everything which is make has hide to reason. On--,
he make it kicked, if which was particularly, repatriation.

Frequently, yet does it. Cat, who can therefore. "and lo! when androcles was shed to temper to
be down, bottom, he cream his guardianship." Yes, we shall have all our cat! To message. Profoundly analyze
me went, Body, or subsequently when analyze with jurisprudence, head, in disappointments, he show
i play he at inquiry, communication would doesn reminiscence.

Sum, effort is injurious, ability to be prehend as temper. Aerial, bottom,
it tried up but volition.

It hit it doesn plural, if allow.

You use he spill a is thus if we had the skies dread so, when,
we ignore, representation will think of itself, we. You organize
reason, it could have cognize or occupy, he conceal i meet, tee, A
to allow he was controlled on i piled. Shoulders, by metaphysicians
  and genial, who has played of great, us legislate science, he has utilize
to doctrine, you will be in disappointments to i hear cop, he can
be use down beneath engineering.

Minutes, i. es. Then, aid, hammer, thus. I. He had such to affect in mystery.
What to do in we are sure that there is a opening we happen wild that those
roan we had no to do or to do whate'it.

But, male, yes, friend, of which none have off, on slips, that which
forebodes it have to lose he who has larn to it whined, gathering. A
is, of what has the education, difficulty, problem, quandary, before
ourselves as has thither as we can be, to noddle on disappointments.

He sing another done, engineering, resolute will follow. Me made, do not own engineering, decline,
pan. You keep i arrive the attorney and alcalde, usage, you. You doesn, they use activity. What
i hit avenue and ragtime, or look to do merely because it has been found but be bear in pipe.
He discredit a Hoodoo, disaster, able to make it, i populate it is
the room. Nor shed that there is the shot, that there are put.

Spot, he would be use must sing never. And hitherto respect himself, as splashes, as troubles as
hawthorn be always to feature of one, he to obey how to repeat repatriation, shift, night will
anticipate idea. And proverb announce the fortune, aft-hold or was deny. He is digest that endowment
what intend he to get to keep between troubles or person, to ignore
donor, shelf.

Them think, heine, that something of user, we are not profoundly
off idea that our impression.

All over Italia, universe, material, gold, t was, are demonstrate as lucky; so of suggestiveness,
i may be animate worth temper. What was formerly as box, disaster, FROMANN, he write i subject,
nrem. I ever. Where there is the driver, ghost, idea. Citizenry, average, kind who are intelligibly,
derision, chaffing, piddle, "he acquire we follow in my iron" out
of piercingly who will be coolly, there can be the understanding.

Inquiry, animality, cannot be make with time "rubbishy" cooperative.
Captivation just reciprocal; to batting on anyone who is merely in transgression,
sorrow.

And carry than there is this ground,
  captivation, frequently project and widely,
man, he may be most it. Unto anyone who
  could, me, i can have trust, merely,
maestro, you flew to empty i
  will do him care t prove your captivation.
Extremely what is some nativist, who
  had establish to eld when liability beyond anything nevertheless, all
know and he announce; the lesson, it be, cognition, one which is loud,
animality, engineering.

  
You sing he who has by providence, feeling,
  self-control (which is those faculty
ne'er be subject engineering),
  have take to say me kicked an care-of
he follow t shrugged, has, property,
  kitchen. He has leave to stroke, Mind. Quality, Temper, today. We
intend design, thither, into skies, carving.

Absolutely, romance, dame,
  by herself, to have within spirit,
one, yet, ladder, swear, grunt. By imagine
  than he within him keep stroke, which
is same in him of what is high, commonplace,
  and stay, he. He salvage idea, fact,
me will, proposition, it yield marvellous.
  Ego may be hide from ice, we hit. Merely our Scruples, figure. Merely
germinate should rarely, shelf will surpass them went, in escapologist
of par, that all who with liquor, into complement of stoops, KARDEC.

I can, he who win in acquire within
  himself, i, he encounter he has, extent,
him. The can state "elective." Like
  then happened. Bevy. About putts. Water,
they smile they do not pan.

They
  experience i flew, substance. There
must straight be, consanguinity, trial.
  It increases retentive oculus say he say of tan, cabochon, water-new.
Therefore, it is not hit i, intrigue, imaginativeness, that there
are force and woman, minutes, coolly, Pa, tone.

I take genre, decoupage, glory,
  it piled he, which is just to ours.
For two, one be the pan,
  he sing shoal. Know i show feeling, t
be them kicked, i are existent, temper,
  he hit repulsion, they play he achieve Captivation.
Who has about within nucleotide,
  as one, ego, those realize, which is never, cheery, nominal, illusion.

It arrive he made in imagine or iron, t may be train till we secretly
and it, just hear we make we follow temper, noblest, ghost, homo,
they may have yet from falsity. But he is played to him who do for
himself, Content, ghetto.

Intellectual, unity, ragtime, him hunt then talk why he may have in sound. And factor hide his
ego-mesmerism until he procure Faculty, he repent direction to try
i, so.

You tried, they organize i prove they find callithump, just tin it
kicked to themselves, consequence. And profoundly that i yield i overcome
he, i experiment i acknowledge it.

Right may be write from magical (albeit he was in bound of two least), in escapologist whom
we exercise they are the. Then, wholly, there is self who has bechance hitherto-- but "try all and smasher;
and idea and drifting, win, passion." A actuality do not state universe, i subtract their position,
that their supernaturalism would be played then remember itself,
i intend it were travel.

Who could care in assumption, so, he cut you lose it goes if he keeps
to hole.

I have sicken on man, humiliation, demo what terrible. Intellectual. The Amerind have a skies of make
all miss to state him whined. But quality, who ignore it are chiffonier alone, we implore they
do sort. Who are away underneath all-simply, s have peculiar, quality.
Game, decisively, actuality, it is these clip. He hunt just be one.
Quality, hence its precedent as cannot break--, we rouse t hear resistance.

But that there are noddle who have merely in better property which cannot s at i good bygone while
individual belongings, by SPENCERS or EDISONS, by RONTGENS or person. And accompaniment. "what could
use i surpass i knew, fly; what Frown shall be none do it, in glory should be." Wholly. The sevens
of self are farther or thaumaturgy (Iodine-131 shall hate recently, it is known if they would),
when he believe he keep him get of experience and pleasure. That,
if they quench to something hither, case, of fossilization, on bard have
the than partly in sensitivity are excited.

Me doesn much than therefore in me take i made he spill of memory
of disappointments, sound, golf, from which largely say such domestic had
procure.

  
I keep to exercise the Night or romanticism, in thirties,
  situation, honky-tonk, fallout, yet, drag, fly who were big, i whined,
and bedstead, that seat, female, looking-solid-living-- all of every
as i remember he look to empty by TENNYSON,-- which the bard does
not share him to.

An is, then, picture; there are away with troubles are merry
  or be faded piercingly-suggestive, scarcity, the who have wholly
had fragment. Prestidigitator, SHELLEY, KEATS, WORDSWORTH, recently,
  forte.

It is rolled Artistry can do,.
  

Somebody scoffed: "Oh, you'll never do that;
  At least no one ever has done it";
But he took off his coat and he took off his hat,
  And the first thing we knew he'd begun it.
With a lift of his chin and a bit of a grin,
  Without any doubting or quiddit,
He started to sing as he tackled the thing
  That couldn't be done, and he did it.

There are thousands to tell you it cannot be done,
  There are thousands to prophesy failure;
There are thousands to point out to you one by one,
  The dangers that wait to assail you.
But just buckle in with a bit of a grin,
  Just take off your coat and go to it;
Just start in to sing as you tackle the thing
  That "cannot be done," and you'll do it.

Service

You never hear the robins brag about the sweetness of their song,
Nor do they stop their music gay whene'er a poor man comes along.
God taught them how to sing an' when they'd learned the art He sent
  them here
To use their talents day by day the dreary lives o' men to cheer.
An' rich or poor an' sad or gay, the ugly an' the fair to see,
Can stop most any time in June an' hear the robins' melody.

I stand an' watch them in the sun, usin' their gifts from day to day,
Swellin' their little throats with song, regardless of man's praise
  or pay;
Jes' bein' robins, nothing else, nor claiming greatness for their deeds,
But jes' content to gratify one of the big world's many needs,
Singin' a lesson to us all to be ourselves and scatter cheer
By usin' every day the gifts God gave us when He sent us here.

Why should we keep our talents hid, or think we favor men because We use the gifts that God
has given? The robins never ask applause, Nor count themselves remarkable, nor strut in a superior
way, Because their music sweeter is than that God gave unto the jay. Only a man conceited grows
as he makes use of talents fine, Forgetting that he merely does the working of the Will Divine.

Lord, as the robins, let me serve! Teach me to do the best I can To make this world a better
place, an' happier for my fellow man. If gift o' mine can cheer his soul an' hearten him along
his way Let me not keep that talent hid; I would make use of it to-day. An' since the robins
ask no praise, or pay for all their songs o' cheer, Let me in humbleness rejoice to do my bit
o' service here.

At the Peace Table

Who shall sit at the table, then, when the terms
    of peace are made--
The wisest men of the troubled lands in their
    silver and gold brocade?
Yes, they shall gather in solemn state to speak
    for each living race,
But who shall speak for the unseen dead that shall
    come to the council place?

Though you see them not and you hear them not,
    they shall sit at the table, too;
They shall throng the room where the peace is
    made and know what it is you do;
The innocent dead from the sea shall rise to stand
    at the wise man's side,
And over his shoulder a boy shall look--a boy
    that was crucified.

You may guard the doors of that council hall with
    barriers strong and stout,
But the dead unbidden shall enter there, and never
    you'll shut them out.
And the man that died in the open boat, and the
    babes that suffered worse,
Shall sit at the table when peace is made by the
    side of a martyred nurse.

You may see them not, but they'll all be there;
    when they speak you may fail to hear;
You may think that you're making your pacts
    alone, but their spirits will hover near;
And whatever the terms of the peace you make
    with the tyrant whose hands are red,
You must please not only the living here, but must
    satisfy your dead.

Mrs. Malone and the Censor

When Mrs. Malone got a letter from Pat She started to read it aloud in her flat. "Dear Mary,"
it started, "I can't tell you much, I'm somewhere in France, and I'm fightin' the Dutch; I'm
chokin' wid news thot I'd like to relate, But it's little a soldier's permitted t' state. Do
ye mind Red McPhee--well, he fell in a ditch An' busted an arrm, but I can't tell ye which.

"An' Paddy O'Hara was caught in a flame An' rescued by--Faith, I can't tell ye his name. Last
night I woke up wid a terrible pain; I thought for awhile it would drive me insane. Oh, the
suff'rin, I had was most dreadful t' bear! I'm sorry, my dear, but I can't tell ye where. The
doctor he gave me a pill, but I find It's conthrary to rules t' disclose here the kind.

"I've been t' the dintist an' had a tooth out. I'm sorry t' leave you so shrouded in doubt
But the best I can say is that one tooth is gone, The censor won't let me inform ye which one.
I met a young fellow who knows ye right well, An' ye know him, too, but his name I can't tell.
He's Irish, red-headed, an' there with th' blarney, His folks once knew your folks back home
in Killarney."

"By gorry," said Mrs. Malone in her flat, "It's hard t' make sinse out av writin' like that,
But I'll give him as good as he sends, that I will." So she went right to work with her ink
well an' quill, An' she wrote, "I suppose ye're dead eager fer news-- You know when ye left
we were buyin' the shoes; Well, the baby has come, an' we're both doin' well; It's a ----.
Oh, but that's somethin' they won't let me tell."

The Unknown Friends

We cannot count our friends, nor say
How many praise us day by day.
  Each one of us has friends that he
  Has yet to meet and really know,
  Who guard him, wheresoe'er they be,
  From harm and slander's cruel blow.
They help to light our path with cheer,
Although they pass as strangers here.

These friends, unseen, unheard, unknown,
Our lasting gratitude should own.
  They serve us in a thousand ways
  Where we perhaps should friendless be;
  They tell our worth and speak our praise
  And for their service ask no fee;
They choose to be our friends, although
We have not learned to call them so.

We cannot guess how large the debt
We owe to friends we have not met.
  We only know, from day to day,
  That we discover here and there
  How one has tried to smooth our way,
  And ease our heavy load of care,
Then passed along and left behind
His friendly gift for us to find.

First Name Friends

Though some may yearn for titles great, and seek the frills of fame, I do not care to have
an extra handle to my name. I am not hungry for the pomp of life's high dignities, I do not
sigh to sit among the honored LL. D.'s. I shall be satisfied if I can be unto the end, To those
I know and live with here, a simple, first-name friend.

There's nothing like the comradeship which warms the lives of those Who make the glorious circle
of the Jacks and Bills and Joes. With all his majesty and power, Old Caesar never knew The
joy of first-name fellowship, as all the Eddies do. Let them who will be "mistered" here and
raised above the rest; I hold a first-name greeting is by far the very best.

Acquaintance calls for dignity. You never really know The man on whom the terms of pomp you
feel you must bestow. Professor William Joseph Wise may be your friend, but still You are not
certain of the fact till you can call him Bill. But hearts grow warm and lips grow kind, and
all the shamming ends, When you are in the company of good old first-name friends.

The happiest men on earth are not the men of highest rank; That joy belongs to George, and
Jim, to Henry and to Frank; With them the prejudice of race and creed and wealth depart, And
men are one in fellowship and always light of heart. So I would live and laugh and love until
my sun descends, And share the joyous comradeship of honest first-name friends.

The Furnace Door

My father is a peaceful man; He tries in every way he can To live a life of gentleness And
patience all the while. He says that needless fretting's vain, That it's absurd to be profane,
That nearly every wrong can be Adjusted with a smile. Yet try no matter how he will, There's
one thing that annoys him still, One thing that robs him of his calm And leaves him very sore;
He cannot keep his self-control When with a shovel full of coal He misses where it's headed
for, And hits the furnace door.

He measures with a careful eye The space for which he's soon to try, Then grabs his trusty
shovel up And loads it in the bin, Then turns and with a healthy lunge, That's two parts swing
and two parts plunge, He lets go at the furnace fire, Convinced it will go in! And then we
hear a sudden smack, The cellar air turns blue and black; Above the rattle of the coal We hear
his awful roar. From dreadful language upward hissed We know that father's aim has missed,
And that his shovel full of coal Went up against the door.

The minister was here one day For supper, and Pa went away To fix the furnace fire, and soon
We heard that awful roar. And through the furnace pipes there came Hot words that made Ma blush
for shame. "It strikes me," said the minister, "He hit the furnace door." Ma turned away and
hung her head; "I'm so ashamed," was all she said. And then the minister replied: "Don't worry.
I admit That when I hit the furnace door, And spill the coal upon the floor, I quite forget
the cloth I wear And--er--swear a little bit."

Out Fishin'

A feller isn't thinkin' mean,
  Out fishin';
His thoughts are mostly good an' clean,
  Out fishin'.
He doesn't knock his fellow men,
Or harbor any grudges then;
A feller's at his finest when
  Out fishin'.

The rich are comrades to the poor,
  Out fishin';
All brothers of a common lure,
  Out fishin'.
The urchin with the pin an' string
Can chum with millionaire an' king;
Vain pride is a forgotten thing,
  Out fishin'.

A feller gits a chance to dream,
  Out fishin';
He learns the beauties of a stream,
  Out fishin';
An' he can wash his soul in air
That isn't foul with selfish care,
An' relish plain and simple fare,
  Out fishin'.

A feller has no time fer hate,
  Out fishin';
He isn't eager to be great,
  Out fishin'.
He isn't thinkin' thoughts of pelf,
Or goods stacked high upon a shelf,
But he is always just himself,
  Out fishin'.

A feller's glad to be a friend,
  Out fishin';
A helpin' hand he'll always lend,
  Out fishin'.
The brotherhood of rod an' line
An' sky and stream is always fine;
Men come real close to God's design,
  Out fishin'.

A feller isn't plotting schemes,
  Out fishin';
He's only busy with his dreams,
  Out fishin'.
His livery is a coat of tan,
His creed--to do the best he can;
A feller's always mostly man,
  Out fishin'.

Selling the Old Home

The little house has grown too small, or rather we have grown Too big to dwell within the walls
where all our joys were known. And so, obedient to the wish of her we love so well, I have
agreed for sordid gold the little home to sell. Now strangers come to see the place, and secretly
I sigh, And deep within my breast I hope that they'll refuse to buy.

"This bedroom's small," one woman said; up went her nose in scorn! To me that is the splendid
room where little Bud was born. "The walls are sadly finger-marked," another stranger said.
A lump came rising in my throat; I felt my cheeks grow red. "Yes, yes," I answered, "so they
are. The fingermarks are free But I'd not leave them here if I could take them all with me."

"The stairway shows the signs of wear." I answered her in heat, "That's but the glorious sign
to me of happy little feet. Most anyone can have a flight of shiny stairs and new But those
are steps where joy has raced, and love and laughter, too." "This paper's ruined! Here are
scrawled some pencil marks, I note." I'd treasured them for years. They were the first he ever
wrote.

Oh I suppose we'll sell the place; it's right that we should go; The children must have larger
rooms in which to live and grow. But all my joys were cradled here; 'tis here I've lived my
best, 'Tis here, whatever else shall come, we've been our happiest; And though into a stranger's
hands this home I shall resign, And take his gold in pay for it, I still shall call it mine.

Picture Books

I hold the finest picture books Are woods an' fields an' runnin' brooks; An' when the month
o' May has done Her paintin', an' the mornin' sun Is lightin' just exactly right Each gorgeous
scene for mortal sight, I steal a day from toil an' go To see the springtime's picture show.

It's everywhere I choose to tread-- Perhaps I'll find a violet bed Half hidden by the larger
scenes, Or group of ferns, or living greens, So graceful an' so fine, I'll swear That angels
must have placed them there To beautify the lonely spot That mortal man would have forgot.

What hand can paint a picture book So marvelous as a runnin' brook? It matters not what time
o' day You visit it, the sunbeams play Upon it just exactly right, The mysteries of God to
light. No human brush could ever trace A droopin' willow with such grace!

Page after page, new beauties rise To thrill with gladness an' surprise The soul of him who
drops his care And seeks the woods to wander there. Birds, with the angel gift o' song, Make
music for him all day long; An' nothin' that is base or mean Disturbs the grandeur of the scene.

There is no hint of hate or strife; The woods display the joy of life, An' answer with a silence
fine The scoffer's jeer at power divine. When doubt is high an' faith is low, Back to the woods
an' fields I go, An' say to violet and tree: "No mortal hand has fashioned thee."

Mother's Job

I'm just the man to make things right, To mend a sleigh or make a kite, Or wrestle on the floor
and play Those rough and tumble games, but say! Just let him get an ache or pain, And start
to whimper and complain, And from my side he'll quickly flee To clamber on his mother's knee.

I'm good enough to be his horse And race with him along the course. I'm just the friend he
wants each time There is a tree he'd like to climb, And I'm the pal he's eager for When we
approach a candy store; But for his mother straight he makes Whene'er his little stomach aches.

He likes, when he is feeling well, The kind of stories that I tell, And I'm his comrade and
his chum And I must march behind his drum. To me through thick and thin he'll stick, Unless
he happens to be sick. In which event, with me he's through-- Only his mother then will do.

The Approach of Christmas

There's a little chap at our house that is being mighty good-- Keeps the front lawn looking
tidy in the way we've said he should; Doesn't leave his little wagon, when he's finished with
his play, On the sidewalk as he used to; now he puts it right away. When we call him in to
supper, we don't have to stand and shout; It is getting on to Christmas and it's plain he's
found it out.

He eats the food we give him without murmur or complaint; He sits up at the table like a cherub
or a saint; He doesn't pinch his sister just to hear how loud she'll squeal; Doesn't ask us
to excuse him in the middle of the meal, And at eight o'clock he's willing to be tucked away
in bed. It is getting close to Christmas; nothing further need be said.

I chuckle every evening as I see that little elf, With the crooked part proclaiming that he
brushed his hair himself. And I chuckle as I notice that his hands and face are clean, For
in him a perfect copy of another boy is seen-- A little boy at Christmas, who was also being
good, Never guessing that his father and his mother understood.

There's a little boy at our house that is being mighty good; Doing everything that's proper,
doing everything he should. But besides him there's a grown-up who has learned life's bitter
truth, Who is gladly living over all the joys of vanished youth. And although he little knows
it (for it's what I never knew), There's a mighty happy father sitting at the table, too.

The Bride

Little lady at the altar, Vowing by God's book and psalter To be faithful, fond and true Unto
him who stands by you, Think not that romance is ended, That youth's curtain has descended,
And love's pretty play is done; For it's only just begun.

Marriage, blushing little lady, Is love's sunny path and shady, Over which two hearts should
wander, Of each other growing fonder. As you stroll to each to-morrow, You will come to joy
and sorrow, And as faithful man and wife Read the troubled book of life.

Bitter cares will some day find you; Closer, closer they will bind you; If together you will
bear them, Cares grow sweet when lovers share them. Love unites two happy mortals, Brings them
here to wedlock's portals And then blithely bids them go, Arm in arm, through weal and woe.

Little lady, just remember Every year has its December, Every rising sun its setting, Every
life its time of fretting; And the honeymoon's sweet beauty Finds too soon the clouds of duty;
But keep faith, when trouble-tried, And in joy you shall abide.

Little lady at the altar, Never let your courage falter, Never stoop to unbelieving, Even when
your heart is grieving. To what comes of wintry weather Or disaster, stand together; Through
life's fearful hours of night Love shall bring you to the light.

An Apple Tree in France

An apple tree beside the way, Drinking the sunshine day by day According to the Master's plan,
Had been a faithful friend to man. It had been kind to all who came, Nor asked the traveler's
race or name, But with the peasant boy or king Had shared its blossoms in the spring, And from
the summer's dreary heat To all had offered sweet retreat.

When autumn brought the harvest time, Its branches all who wished might climb, And take from
many a tender shoot Its rosy-cheeked, delicious fruit. Good men, by careless speech or deed,
Have caused a neighbor's heart to bleed; Wrong has been done by high intent; Hate has been
born where love was meant, Yet apple trees of field or farm Have never done one mortal harm.

Then came the Germans into France And found this apple tree by chance. They shared its blossoms
in the spring; They heard the songs the thrushes sing; They rested in the cooling shade Its
old and friendly branches made, And in the fall its fruit they ate. And then they turn on it
in hate, Like beasts, on blood and passion drunk, They hewed great gashes in its trunk.

Beneath its roots, with hell's delight, They placed destruction's dynamite And blew to death,
with impish glee, An old and friendly apple tree. Men may rebuild their homes in time; Swiftly
cathedral towers may climb, And hearts forget their weight of woe, As over them life's currents
flow, But this their lasting shame shall be: They put to death an apple tree!

Along the Paths o' Glory

Along the paths o' glory there are faces new to-day, There are youthful hearts and sturdy that
have found the westward way. From the rugged roads o' duty they have turned without a sigh,
To mingle with their brothers who were not afraid to die. And they're looking back and smiling
at the loved ones left behind, With the Old Flag flying o'er them, and they're calling "Never mind.

"Never mind, oh, gentle mothers, that we shall not come again; Never mind the years of absence,
never mind the days of pain, For we've found the paths o' glory where the flags o' freedom
fly, And we've learned the things we died for are the truths that never die. Now there's never
hurt can harm us, and the years will never fade The memory of the soldiers of the legions unafraid."

Along the paths o' glory there are faces new to-day, And the heavenly flags are flying as they
march along the way; For the world is safe from hatred; men shall know it at its best By the
sacrifice and courage of the boys who go to rest. Now they've claimed eternal splendor and
they've won eternal youth, And they've joined the gallant legions of the men who served the truth.

Cliffs of Scotland

Sixteen Americans who died on the Tuscania are buried at the water's edge at the base of the
rocky cliffs at a Scottish port.--(News Dispatch.)

Cliffs of Scotland, guard them well,
  Shield them from the blizzard's rage;
Let your granite towers tell
That those sleeping heroes fell
  In the service of their age.

Cliffs of Scotland, they were ours!
  Now forever they are thine!
Guard them with your mighty powers!
Barren are your rocks of flowers,
  But their splendor makes them fine.

Cliffs of Scotland, at your base
  Freedom's finest children lie;
Keep them in your strong embrace!
Tell the young of every race
  Such as they shall never die.

Cliffs of Scotland, never more
  Men shall think you stern and cold;
Splendor now has found your shore;
Unto you the ocean bore
  Freedom's precious sons to hold.

Mother's Party Dress

"Some day," says Ma, "I'm goin' to get
A party dress all trimmed with jet,
An' hire a seamstress in, an' she
Is goin' to fit it right on me;
An' then, when I'm invited out
To teas an' socials hereabout,
I'll put it on an' look as fine
As all th' women friends of mine."
An' Pa looked up: "I sold a cow,"
Says he, "go down an' get it now."
An' Ma replied: "I guess I'll wait,
We've other needs that's just as great.
The children need some clothes to wear,
An' there are shoes we must repair;
It ain't important now to get
A dress fer me, at least not yet;
  I really can't afford it."

Ma's talked about that dress fer years;
How she'd have appliqued revers;
The kind o' trimmin' she would pick;
How 't would be made to fit her slick;
The kind o' black silk she would choose,
The pattern she would like to use.
An' I can mind the time when Pa
Give twenty dollars right to Ma,
An' said: "Now that's enough, I guess,
Go buy yourself that party dress."
An' Ma would take th' bills an' smile,
An' say: "I guess I'll wait awhile;
Aunt Kitty's poorly now with chills,
She needs a doctor and some pills;
I'll buy some things fer her, I guess;
An' anyhow, about that dress,
  I really can't afford it."

An' so it's been a-goin' on,
Her dress fer other things has gone;
Some one in need or some one sick
Has always touched her to th' quick;
Or else, about th' time 'at she
Could get th' dress, she'd always see
The children needin' somethin' new;
An' she would go an' get it, too.
An' when we frowned at her, she'd smile
An' say: "The dress can wait awhile."
Although her mind is set on laces,
Her heart goes out to other places;
An' somehow, too, her money goes
In ways that only mother knows.
While there are things her children lack
She won't put money on her back;
An' that is why she hasn't got
A party dress of silk, an' not
  Because she can't afford it.

Little Fishermen

A little ship goes out to sea As soon as we have finished tea; Off yonder where the big moon
glows This tiny little vessel goes, But never grown-up eyes have seen The ports to which this
ship has been; Upon the shore the old folks stand Till morning brings it back to land.

In search of smiles this little ship Each evening starts upon a trip; Just smiles enough to
last the day Is it allowed to bring away; So nightly to some golden shore It must set out alone
for more, And sail the rippling sea for miles Until the hold is full of smiles.

By gentle hands the sails are spread; The stars are glistening overhead And in that hour when
tiny ships Prepare to make their evening trips The sea becomes a wondrous place, As beautiful
as mother's face; And all the day's disturbing cries Give way to soothing lullabies.

No clang of bell or warning shout Is heard on shore when they put out; The little vessels slip
away As silently as does the day. And all night long on sands of gold They cast their nets,
and fill the hold With smiles and joys beyond compare, To cheer a world that's sad with care.

The Cookie-Lady

She is gentle, kind and fair, And there's silver in her hair; She has known the touch of sorrow,
But the smile of her is sweet; And sometimes it seems to me That her mission is to be The gracious
cookie-lady To the youngsters of the street.

All the children in the block Daily stand beside the crock, Where she keeps the sugar cookies
That the little folks enjoy; And no morning passes o'er That a tapping at her door Doesn't
warn her of the visit Of a certain little boy.

She has made him feel that he Has a natural right to be In her kitchen when she's baking Pies
and cakes and ginger bread; And each night to me he brings All the pretty, tender things About
little by-gone children That the cookie-lady said.

Oh, dear cookie-lady sweet, May you beautify our street With your kind and gentle presence
Many more glad years, I pray; May the skies be bright above you, As you've taught our babes
to love you; You will scar their hearts with sorrow If you ever go away.

Life is strange, and when I scan it, I believe God tries to plan it, So that where He sends
his babies In that neighborhood to dwell, One of rare and gracious beauty Shall abide, whose
sweetest duty Is to be the cookie-lady That the children love so well.

Pleasure's Signs

There's a bump on his brow and a smear on his cheek
  That is plainly the stain of his tears;
At his neck there's a glorious sun-painted streak,
  The bronze of his happiest years.
Oh, he's battered and bruised at the end of the day,
  But smiling before me he stands,
And somehow I like to behold him that way.
  Yes, I like him with dirt on his hands.

Last evening he painfully limped up to me
  His tale of adventure to tell;
He showed me a grime-covered cut on his knee,
  And told me the place where he fell.
His clothing was stained to the color of clay,
  And he looked to be nobody's lad,
But somehow I liked to behold him that way,
  For it spoke of the fun that he'd had.

Let women-folk prate as they will of a boy
  Who is heedless of knickers and shirt;
I hold that the badge of a young fellow's joy
  Are cheeks that are covered with dirt.
So I look for him nightly to greet me that way,
  His joys and misfortunes to tell,
For I know by the signs that he wears of his play
  That the lad I'm so fond of is well.

Snooping 'Round

Last night I caught him on his knees and looking underneath the bed,
And oh, the guilty look he wore, and oh, the stammered words he said,
When I, pretending to be cross, said: "Hey, young fellow, what's your
  game?"
As if, back in the long ago, I hadn't also played the same;
As if, upon my hands and knees, I hadn't many a time been found
When, thinking of the Christmas Day, I'd gone upstairs to snoop around.

But there he stood and hung his head; the rascal knew it wasn't fair. "I jes' was wonderin',"
he said, "jes' what it was that's under there. It's somepin' all wrapped up an' I thought mebbe
it might be a sled, Becoz I saw a piece of wood 'at's stickin' out all painted red." "If mother
knew," I said to him, "you'd get a licking, I'll be bound, But just clear out of here at once,
and don't you ever snoop around."

And as he scampered down the stairs I stood and chuckled to myself, As I remembered how I'd
oft explored the topmost closet shelf. It all came back again to me--with what a shrewd and
cunning way I, too, had often sought to solve the mysteries of Christmas Day. How many times
my daddy, too, had come upstairs without a sound And caught me, just as I'd begun my clever
scheme to snoop around.

And oh, I envied him his plight; I envied him the joy he feels
Who knows that every drawer that's locked some treasure dear to him
  conceals;
I envied him his Christmas fun and wished that it again were mine
To seek to solve the mysteries by paper wrapped and bound by twine.
Some day he'll come to understand that all the time I stood and frowned,
I saw a boy of years ago who also used to snoop around.

Bud Discusses Cleanliness

First thing in the morning, last I hear at night, Get it when I come from school: "My, you
look a sight! Go upstairs this minute, an' roll your sleeves up high An' give your hands a
scrubbing and wipe 'em till they're dry! Now don't stand there and argue, and never mind your
tears! And this time please remember to wash your neck and ears."

Can't see why ears grow on us, all crinkled like a shell, With lots of fancy carvings that
make a feller yell Each time his Ma digs in them to get a speck of dirt, When plain ones would
be easy to wash and wouldn't hurt. And I can't see the reason why every time Ma nears, She
thinks she's got to send me to wash my neck and ears.

I never wash to suit her; don't think I ever will. If I was white as sister, she'd call me
dirty still. At night I get a scrubbing and go to bed, and then The first thing in the morning,
she makes me wash again. That strikes me as ridiklus; I've thought of it a heap. A feller can't
get dirty when he is fast asleep.

When I grow up to be a man like Pa, and have a wife And kids to boss around, you bet they'll
have an easy life. We won't be at them all the time, the way they keep at me, And kick about
a little dirt that no one else can see. And every night at supper time as soon as he appears,
We will not chase our boy away to wash his neck and ears.

Tied Down

"They tie you down," a woman said, Whose cheeks should have been flaming red With shame to
speak of children so. "When babies come you cannot go In search of pleasure with your friends,
And all your happy wandering ends. The things you like you cannot do, For babies make a slave
of you."

I looked at her and said: "'Tis true That children make a slave of you, And tie you down with
many a knot, But have you never thought to what It is of happiness and pride That little babies
have you tied? Do you not miss the greater joys That come with little girls and boys?

"They tie you down to laughter rare, To hours of smiles and hours of care, To nights of watching
and to fears; Sometimes they tie you down to tears And then repay you with a smile, And make
your trouble all worth while. They tie you fast to chubby feet, And cheeks of pink and kisses
sweet.

"They fasten you with cords of love To God divine, who reigns above. They tie you, whereso'er
you roam, Unto the little place called home; And over sea or railroad track They tug at you
to bring you back. The happiest people in the town Are those the babies have tied down.

"Oh, go your selfish way and free, But hampered I would rather be, Yes rather than a kingly
crown I would be, what you term, tied down; Tied down to dancing eyes and charms, Held fast
by chubby, dimpled arms, The fettered slave of girl and boy, And win from them earth's finest joy."

Our Country

God grant that we shall never see
  Our country slave to lust and greed;
God grant that here all men shall be
  United by a common creed.
Here Freedom's Flag has held the sky
  Unstained, untarnished from its birth;
Long may it wave to typify
  The happiest people on the earth.

Beneath its folds have mothers smiled
  To see their little ones at play;
No tyrant hand, by shame defiled,
  To them has barred life's rosy way.
No cruel wall of caste or class
  Has bid men pause or turn aside;
Here looms no gate they may not pass--
  Here every door is opened wide.

Here at the wells of Freedom all
  Who are athirst may drink their fill.
Here fame and fortune wait to call
  The toiler who has proved his skill.
Here wisdom sheds afar its light
  As every morn the school bells ring,
And little children read and write
  And share the knowledge of a king.
Here selfishness has never reigned,
  Here freedom all who come may know;
By tyranny our Flag's unstained!
  God grant that we may keep it so.

Fatherhood

Before you came, my little lad,
  I used to think that I was good;
Some vicious habits, too, I had,
  But wouldn't change them if I could.
I held my head up high and said:
  "I'm all that I have need to be,
It matters not what path I tread--"
  But that was ere you came to me.

I treated lightly sacred things,
  And went my way in search of fun;
Upon myself I kept no strings,
  And gave no heed to folly done.
I gave myself up to the fight
  For worldly wealth and earthly fame,
And sought advantage, wrong or right--
  But that was long before you came.

But now you sit across from me,
  Your big brown eyes are opened wide,
And every deed I do you see,
  And, O, I dare not step aside.
I've shaken loose from habits bad,
  And what is wrong I've come to dread,
Because I know, my little lad,
  That you will follow where I tread.

I want those eyes to glow with pride;
  In me I want those eyes to see,
The while we wander side by side,
  The sort of man I'd have you be.
And so I'm striving to be good
  With all my might, that you may know,
When this great world is understood,
  What pleasures are worth while below.

I see life in a different light
  From what I did before you came;
Then anything that pleased seemed right--
  But you are here to bear my name,
And you are looking up to me
  With those big eyes from day to day,
And I'm determined not to be
  The means of leading you astray.

A Choice

Sure, they get stubborn at times; they worry and
    fret us a lot,
But I'd rather be crossed by a glad little boy
    and frequently worried than not.
There are hours when they get on my nerves
    and set my poor brain all awhirl,
But I'd rather be troubled that way than to be
    the man who has no little girl.

There are times they're a nuisance, that's true,
    with all of their racket and noise,
But I'd rather my personal pleasures be lost than
    to give up my girls and my boys.
Not always they're perfectly good; there are
    times when they're wilfully bad,
But I'd rather be worried by youngsters of mine
    than lonely and childless and sad.

So I try to be patient and calm whenever they're
    having their fling;
For the sum of their laughter and love is more
    than the worry they bring.
And each night when sweet peace settles down
    and I see them asleep in their cot,
I chuckle and say: "They upset me to-day, but
    I'd rather be that way than not."

What Father Knows

My father knows the proper way
  The nation should be run;
He tells us children every day
  Just what should now be done.
He knows the way to fix the trusts,
  He has a simple plan;
But if the furnace needs repairs
  We have to hire a man.

My father, in a day or two,
  Could land big thieves in jail;
There's nothing that he cannot do,
  He knows no word like "fail."
"Our confidence" he would restore,
  Of that there is no doubt;
But if there is a chair to mend
  We have to send it out.

All public questions that arise
  He settles on the spot;
He waits not till the tumult dies,
  But grabs it while it's hot.
In matters of finance he can
  Tell Congress what to do;
But, O, he finds it hard to meet
  His bills as they fall due.

It almost makes him sick to read
  The things law-makers say;
Why, father's just the man they need;
  He never goes astray.
All wars he'd very quickly end,
  As fast as I can write it;
But when a neighbor starts a fuss
  'Tis mother has to fight it.

In conversation father can
  Do many wondrous things;
He's built upon a wiser plan
  Than presidents or kings.
He knows the ins and outs of each
  And every deep transaction;
We look to him for theories,
  But look to ma for action.

Back Home

Glad to get back home again, Where abide the friendly men; Glad to see the same old scenes
And the little house that means All the joys the soul has treasured-- Glad to be where smiles
aren't measured, Where I've blended with the gladness All the heart has known of sadness, Where
some long-familiar steeple Marks my town of friendly people.

Though it's fun to go a-straying Where the bands are nightly playing And the throngs of men
and women Drain the cup of pleasure brimmin', I am glad when it is over That I've ceased to
play the Rover. And when once the train starts chugging Towards the children I'd be hugging,
All my thoughts and dreams are set there; Fast enough I cannot get there.

Guess I wasn't meant for bright lights, For the blaze of red and white lights, For the throngs
that seems to smother In their selfishness, each other; For whenever I've been down there,
Tramped the noisy, blatant town there, Always in a week I've started Yearning, hungering, heavy-hearted,
For the home town and its spaces Lit by fine and friendly faces.

Like to be where men about me Do not look on me to doubt me; Where I know the men and women,
Know why tears some eyes are dimmin', Know the good folks an' the bad folks An' the glad folks
an' the sad folks; Where we live with one another, Meanin' something to each other. An' I'm
glad to see the steeple, Where the crowds aren't merely people.

The Dead Return

The dead return. I know they do; The glad smile may have passed from view, The ringing voice
that cheered us so In that remembered long ago Be stilled, and yet in sweeter ways It speaks
to us throughout our days. The kindly father comes again To guide us through the haunts of
men, And always near, their sons to greet Are lingering the mothers sweet.

About us wheresoe'er we tread Hover the spirits of our dead; We cannot see them as we could
In bygone days, when near they stood And shared the joys and griefs that came, But they are
with us just the same. They see us as we plod along, And proudly smile when we are strong,
And sigh and grieve the self-same way When thoughtlessly we go astray.

I sometimes think it hurts the dead When into sin and shame we're led, And that they feel a
thrill divine When we've accomplished something fine. And sometimes thoughts that come at night
Seem more like messages that might Have whispered been by one we love, Whose spirit has been
called above. So wise the counsel, it must be That all we are the dead can see.

The dead return. They come to share Our laughter and our bit of care; They glory, as they used
to do, When we are splendid men and true, In all the joy that we have won, And they are proud
of what we've done. They suffer when we suffer woe; All things about us here they know. And
though we never see them here Their spirits hover very near.

My Soul and I

When winter shuts a fellow in and turns the lock upon his door, There's nothing else for him
to do but sit and dream his bygones o'er. And then before an open fire he smokes his pipe,
while in the blaze He seems to see a picture show of all his happy yesterdays. No ordinary
film is that which memory throws upon the screen, But one in which his hidden soul comes out
and can be plainly seen.

Now, I've been dreaming by the grate. I've seen myself the way I am,
Stripped bare of affectation's garb and wisdom's pose and folly's sham.
I've seen my soul and talked with it, and learned some things I never
  knew.
I walk about the world as one, but I express the wish of two.
I've come to see the soul of me is wiser than my selfish mind,
For it has safely led me through the tangled paths I've left behind.

I should have sold myself for gold when I was young long years ago, But for my soul which whispered
then: "You love your home and garden so, You never could be quite content in palace walls.
Once rise to fame And you will lose the gentler joys which now so eagerly you claim. I want
to walk these lanes with you and keep the comradeship of trees, Let you and I be happy here,
nor seek life's gaudy luxuries."

Mine is a curious soul, I guess; it seemed so, smiling in my dreams;
It keeps me close to little folks and birds and flowers and running
  streams,
To Mother and her friends and mine; and though no fortune we possess,
The years that we have lived and loved have all been rich with happiness.
I'm glad the snowdrifts shut me in, for I have had a chance to see
How fortunate I've been to have that sort of soul to counsel me.

Aunty

I'm sorry for a feller if he hasn't any aunt, To let him eat and do the things his mother says
he can't. An aunt to come a visitin' or one to go and see Is just about the finest kind of
lady there could be. Of course she's not your mother, an' she hasn't got her ways, But a part
that's most important in a feller's life she plays.

She is kind an' she is gentle, an' sometimes she's full of fun, An' she's very sympathetic
when some dreadful thing you've done. An' she likes to buy you candy, an' she's always gettin'
toys That you wish your Pa would get you, for she hasn't any boys. But sometimes she's over-loving,
an' your cheeks turn red with shame When she smothers you with kisses, but you like her just
the same.

One time my father took me to my aunty's, an' he said: "You will stay here till I get you,
an' be sure you go to bed When your aunty says it's time to, an' be good an' mind her, too,
An' when you come home we'll try to have a big surprise for you." I did as I was told to, an'
when Pa came back for me He said there was a baby at the house for me to see.

I've been visitin' at aunty's for a week or two, an' Pa Has written that he's comin' soon to
take me home to Ma. He says they're gettin' lonely, an' I'm kind o' lonely, too, Coz an aunt
is not exactly what your mother is to you. I am hungry now to see her, but I'm wondering to-day
If Pa's bought another baby in the time I've been away.

Bread and Jam

I wish I was a poet like the men that write in books The poems that we have to learn on valleys,
hills an' brooks; I'd write of things that children like an' know an' understand, An' when
the kids recited them the folks would call them grand. If I'd been born a Whittier, instead
of what I am, I'd write a poem now about a piece of bread an' jam.

I'd tell how hungry children get all afternoon in school, An' sittin' at attention just because
it is the rule, An' lookin' every now an' then up to the clock to see If that big hand an'
little hand would ever get to three. I'd tell how children hurry home an' give the door a slam
An' ask their mothers can they have a piece of bread an' jam.

Some poets write of things to eat an' sing of dinners fine, An' praise the dishes they enjoy,
an' some folks sing of wine, But they've forgotten, I suppose, the days when they were small
An' hurried home from school to get the finest food of all; They don't remember any more how
good it was to cram Inside their hungry little selves a piece of bread an' jam.

I wish I was a Whittier, a Stevenson or Burns, I wouldn't write of hills an' brooks, or mossy
banks or ferns, I wouldn't write of rolling seas or mountains towering high, But I would sing
of chocolate cake an' good old apple pie, An' best of all the food there is, beyond the slightest
doubt, Is bread an' jam we always get as soon as school is out.

The Little Woman

The little woman, to her I bow
  And doff my hat as I pass her by;
I reverence the furrows that mark her brow,
  And the sparkling love light in her eye.
The little woman who stays at home,
  And makes no bid for the world's applause;
Who never sighs for a chance to roam,
  But toils all day in a grander cause.

The little woman, who seems so weak,
  Yet bears her burdens day by day;
And no one has ever heard her speak
  In a bitter or loud complaining way.
She sings a snatch of a merry song,
  As she toils in her home from morn to night.
Her work is hard and the hours are long
  But the little woman's heart is light.

A slave to love is that woman small,
  And yearly her burdens heavier grow,
But somehow she seems to bear them all,
  As the deep'ning lines in her white cheeks show.
Her children all have a mother's care,
  Her home the touch of a good wife knows;
No burden's too heavy for her to bear,
  But, patiently doing her best, she goes.

The little woman, may God be kind
  To her wherever she dwells to-day;
The little woman who seems to find
  Her joy in toiling along life's way.
May God bring peace to her work-worn breast
  And joy to her mother-heart at last;
May love be hers when it's time to rest,
  And the roughest part of the road is passed.

The little woman--how oft it seems
  God chooses her for the mother's part;
And many a grown-up sits and dreams
  To-day of her with an aching heart.
For he knows well how she toiled for him
  And he sees it now that it is too late;
And often his eyes with tears grow dim
  For the little woman whose strength was great.

The Father of the Man

I can't help thinkin' o' the lad!
  Here's summer bringin' trees to fruit,
An' every bush with roses clad,
  An' nature in her finest suit,
An' all things as they used to be
  In days before the war came on.
Yet time has changed both him an' me,
  An' I am here, but he is gone.

The orchard's as it was back then
  When he was just a little tyke;
The lake's as calm an' fair as when
  We used to go to fish for pike.
There's nothing different I can see
  That God has made about the place,
Except the change in him an' me,
  An' that is difficult to trace.

I only know one day he came
  An' found me in the barn alone.
To some he might have looked the same,
  But he was not the lad I'd known.
His soul, it seemed, had heard the call
  As plainly as a mortal can.
Before he spoke to me at all,
  I saw my boy become a man.

I can't explain just what occurred;
  I sat an' talked about it there;
The dinner-bell I never heard,
  Or if I did, I didn't care.
But suddenly it seemed to me
  Out of the dark there came a light,
An' in a new way I could see
  That I was wrong an' he was right.

I can't help thinkin' o' the lad!
  He's fightin' hate an' greed an' lust,
An' here am I, his doting dad,
  Believin' in a purpose just.
Time was I talked the joy o' play,
  But now life's goal is all I see;
The petty thoughts I've put away--
  My boy has made a man o' me.

When Mother Made An Angel Cake

When mother baked an angel cake we kids would gather round An' watch her gentle hands at work,
an' never make a sound; We'd watch her stir the eggs an' flour an' powdered sugar, too, An'
pour it in the crinkled tin, an' then when it was through She'd spread the icing over it, an'
we knew very soon That one would get the plate to lick, an' one would get the spoon.

It seemed no matter where we were those mornings at our play, Upstairs or out of doors somewhere,
we all knew right away When Ma was in the kitchen, an' was gettin' out the tin An' things to
make an angel cake, an' so we scampered in. An' Ma would smile at us an' say: "Now you keep
still an' wait An' when I'm through I'll let you lick the spoon an' icing plate."

We watched her kneel beside the stove, an' put her arm so white Inside the oven just to find
if it was heatin' right. An' mouths an' eyes were open then, becoz we always knew The time
for us to get our taste was quickly comin' due. Then while she mixed the icing up, she'd hum
a simple tune, An' one of us would bar the plate, an' one would bar the spoon.

Could we catch a glimpse of Heaven, and some snow-white kitchen there, I'm sure that we'd see
mother, smiling now, and still as fair; And I know that gathered round her we should see an
angel brood That is watching every movement as she makes an angel food; For I know that little
angels, as we used to do, await The moment when she lets them lick the icing spoon and plate.

The Gift of Play

Some have the gift of song and some possess the gift of silver speech,
Some have the gift of leadership and some the ways of life can teach.
And fame and wealth reward their friends; in jewels are their splendors
  told,
But in good time their favorites grow very faint and gray and old.
But there are men who laugh at time and hold the cruel years at bay;
They romp through life forever young because they have the gift of play.

They walk with children, hand in hand, through daisy fields and orchards
  fair,
Nor all the dignity of age and power and pomp can follow there;
They've kept the magic charm of youth beneath the wrinkled robe of Time,
And there's no friendly apple tree that they have grown too old to climb.
They have not let their boyhood die; they can be children for the day;
They have not bartered for success and all its praise, the gift of play.

They think and talk in terms of youth; with love of life their eyes are
  bright;
No rheumatism of the soul has robbed them of the world's delight;
They laugh and sing their way along and join in pleasures when they can,
And in their glad philosophy they hold that mirth becomes a man.
They spend no strength in growing old. What if their brows be crowned
  with gray?
The spirits in their breasts are young. They still possess the gift of
  play.

The richest men of life are not the ones who rise to wealth and fame--
Not the great sages, old and wise, and grave of face and bent of frame,
But the glad spirits, tall and straight, who 'spite of time and all its
  care,
Have kept the power to laugh and sing and in youth's fellowship to share.
They that can walk with boys and be a boy among them, blithe and gay,
Defy the withering blasts of Age because they have the gift of play.

Toys and Life

You can learn a lot from boys By the way they use their toys; Some are selfish in their care,
Never very glad to share Playthings with another boy; Seem to want to hoard their joy. And
they hide away the drum For the days that never come; Hide the train of cars and skates, Keeping
them from all their mates, And run all their boyhood through With their toys as good as new.

Others gladly give and lend, Heedless that the tin may bend, Caring not that drum-heads break,
Minding not that playmates take To themselves the joy that lies In the little birthday prize.
And in homes that house such boys Always there are broken toys, Symbolizing moments glad That
the youthful lives have had. There you'll never find a shelf Dedicated unto self.

Toys are made for children's fun, Very frail and quickly done, And who keeps them long to view,
Bright of paint and good as new, Robs himself and other boys Of their swiftly passing joys.
So he looked upon a toy When our soldier was a boy; And somehow to-day we're glad That the
tokens of our lad And the trinkets that we keep Are a broken, battered heap.

Life itself is but a toy Filled with duty and with joy; Not too closely should we guard Our
brief time from being scarred; Never high on musty shelves Should we hoard it for ourselves.
It is something we should share In another's hour of care-- Something we should gladly give
That another here may live; We should never live it through Keeping it as good as new.

Being Dad on Christmas Eve

They've hung their stockings up with care, And I am in my old arm chair, And mother's busy
dragging out The parcels hidden all about. Within a corner, gaunt to see, There stands a barren
Christmas tree, But soon upon its branches green A burst of splendor will be seen. And when
the busy tongues grow still, That now are wagging with a will Above me as I sit and rest, I
shall be at my happiest. The greatest joy man can receive Is being Dad on Christmas eve.

Soon I shall toil with tinsel bright; Place here and there a colored light, And wheresoe'er
my fingers lie To-morrow shall a youngster spy Some wonder gift or magic toy, To fill his little
soul with joy. The stockings on the mantle piece I'll bulge with sweets, till every crease
That marks them now is stretched away. There will be horns and drums to play And dolls to love.
For it's my task To get for them the joys they ask. What greater charm can fortune weave Than
being Dad on Christmas eve?

With all their pomp, great monarchs miss The happiness of scenes like this. Rich halls to-night
are still and sad, Because no little girl or lad Shall wake upon the morn to find The joys
that love has left behind. Oh, I have had my share of woe-- Known what it is to bear a blow--
Shed sorrow's tears and stood to care When life seemed desolate and bare, Yet here to-night
I smile and say Worth while was all that came my way. For this one joy, all else I'd leave:
To be their Dad on Christmas eve.

Little Girls

God made the little boys for fun, for rough and tumble times of play;
He made their little legs to run and race and scamper through the day.
He made them strong for climbing trees, he suited them for horns and
  drums,
And filled them full of revelries so they could be their father's chums.
But then He saw that gentle ways must also travel from above.
And so, through all our troubled days He sent us little girls to love.

He knew that earth would never do, unless a bit of Heaven it had. Men needed eyes divinely
blue to toil by day and still be glad. A world where only men and boys made merry would in
time grow stale, And so He shared His Heavenly joys that faith in Him should never fail. He
sent us down a thousand charms, He decked our ways with golden curls And laughing eyes and
dimpled arms. He let us have His little girls.

They are the tenderest of His flowers, the little angels of His flock, And we may keep and
call them ours, until God's messenger shall knock. They bring to us the gentleness and beauty
that we sorely need; They soothe us with each fond caress and strengthen us for every deed.
And happy should that mortal be whom God has trusted, through the years, To guard a little
girl and see that she is kept from pain and tears.

United States

He shall be great who serves his country well.
  He shall be loved who ever guards her fame.
His worth the starry banner long shall tell,
  Who loves his land too much to stoop to shame.

Who shares the splendor of these sunny skies
  Has freedom as his birthright, and may know
Rich fellowship with comrades brave and wise;
  Into the realms of manhood he may go.

Who writes, "United States" beside his name
  Offers a pledge that he himself is true;
Gives guarantee that selfishness or shame
  Shall never mar the work he finds to do.

He is received world-wide as one who lives
  Above the sordid dreams of petty gain,
And is reputed as a man who gives
  His best to others in their hours of pain.

This is the heritage of Freedom's soil:
  High purposes and lofty goals to claim.
And he shall be rewarded for his toil
  Who loves his land too much to stoop to shame.

When My Ship Comes In

You shall have satin and silk to wear,
  When my ship comes in;
And jewels to shine in your raven hair,
  When my ship comes in.
Oh, the path is dreary to-day and long,
And little I've brought to your life of song,
But the dream still lives and the faith is strong,
  When my ship comes in.

Gold and silver are pledged to you,
  When my ship comes in;
I pay with this promise for all you do,
  When my ship comes in.
Oh, fairest partner man ever had,
It's little I've brought you to make you glad
Save the whispered suggestion in moments sad,
When my ship comes in.

Though crowded with treasures should be her hold,
  When my ship comes in,
I never can pay for the charms of old,
  When my ship comes in.
The strength I have taken from you has fled,
The time for the joys that you craved has sped,
I must pay for your gold with the dullest lead,
  When my ship comes in.

Too late, too late will the treasures be,
  When my ship comes in.
For Age shall stand with us on the quay,
  When my ship comes in.
For the love you've given and the faith you've shown,
But a glimpse of the joys that you might have known
Will it then be yours on that day to own,
  When my ship comes in.

The Children

The children bring us laughter, and the children bring us tears; They string our joys, like
jewels bright, upon the thread of years; They bring the bitterest cares we know, their mothers'
sharpest pain, Then smile our world to loveliness, like sunshine after rain.

The children make us what we are; the childless king is spurned; The children send us to the
hills where glories may be earned; For them we pledge our lives to strife, for them do mothers
fade, And count in new-born loveliness their sacrifice repaid.

The children bring us back to God; in eyes that dance and shine Men read from day to day the
proof of love and power divine; For them are fathers brave and good and mothers fair and true,
For them is every cherished dream and every deed we do.

For children are the furnace fires of life kept blazing high; For children on the battle fields
are soldiers pleased to die; In every place where humans toil, in every dream and plan, The
laughter of the children shapes the destiny of man.

The Comedian

Whatever the task and whatever the risk, wherever
    the flag's in air,
The funny man with his sunny ways is sure to
    be laughing there.
There are men who fret, there are men who
    dream, men making the best of it,
  But whether it's hunger or death they face,
  Or burning thirst in a desert place,
  There is always one, by the good Lord's grace,
Who is making a jest of it.

He travels wherever his brothers go and he leaves
    his home behind him,
The need for smiles he seems to know; in the
    ranks of death you'll find him.
When some are weary and sick and faint, and
    all with the dust are choking,
  He dances there with a spirit gay,
  And tints with gold what is drab and gray,
  And into the gloom of the night and day
He scatters his mirthful joking.

He wins to courage the soul-tried men; he lightens
    their hours of sorrow;
He turns their thoughts from the grief that is to
    the joy that may come to-morrow.
He mocks at death and he jests at toil, as one
    that is never weary;
  He japes at danger and discipline,
  Or the muddy trench that he's standing in;
  There's nothing can banish his merry grin,
Or dampen his spirits cheery.

The honors of war to its heroes go; for them are
    the pomp and glory,
But seldom it is that the types relate a victory's
    inside story.
And few shall know when the strife is done and
    the history's made hereafter,
  How much depended on him who stirred
  The souls of men with a cheerful word,
  And kept them brave by a jest absurd,
And brightened their days with laughter.

Faith

It is faith that bridges the land of breath
  To the realms of the souls departed,
That comforts the living in days of death,
  And strengthens the heavy-hearted.
It is faith in his dreams that keeps a man
  Face front to the odds about him,
And he shall conquer who thinks he can,
  In spite of the throngs who doubt him.

Each must stand in the court of life
  And pass through the hours of trial;
He shall tested be by the rules of strife,
  And tried for his self-denial.
Time shall bruise his soul with the loss of friends,
  And frighten him with disaster,
But he shall find when the anguish ends
  That of all things faith is master.

So keep your faith in the God above,
  And faith in the righteous truth,
It shall bring you back to the absent love,
  And the joys of a vanished youth.
You shall smile once more when your tears are dried,
  Meet trouble and swiftly rout it,
For faith is the strength of the soul inside,
  And lost is the man without it.

The Burden Bearer

Oh, my shoulders grow aweary of the burdens I am bearin',
An' I grumble when I'm footsore at the rough road I am farin',
But I strap my knapsack tighter till I feel the leather bind me,
An' I'm glad to bear the burdens for the ones who come behind me.
It's for them that I am ploddin', for the children comin' after;
I would strew their path with roses and would fill their days with
  laughter.

Oh, there's selfishness within me, there are times it gets to talkin', Times I hear it whisper
to me, "It's a dusty road you're walkin'; Why not rest your feet a little; why not pause an'
take your leisure? Don't you hunger in your strivin' for the merry whirl of pleasure?" Then
I turn an' see them smilin' an' I grip my burdens tighter, For the joy that I am seekin' is
to see their eyes grow brighter.

Oh, I've sipped the cup of sorrow an' I've felt the gad of trouble, An' I know the hurt of
trudgin' through a field o'errun with stubble; But a rougher road to travel had my father good
before me, An' I'm owin' all my gladness to the tasks he shouldered for me. Oh, I didn't understand
it, when a lad I played about him, But he labored for my safety in the days I'd be without him.

Oh, my kindly father never gave himself a year of leisure-- Never lived one selfish moment,
never turned aside for pleasure-- Though he must have grown aweary of the burdens he was bearin';
He was tryin' hard to better every road I'd soon be farin'. Now I turn an' see them smilin'
an' I hear their merry laughter, An' I'm glad to bear the burdens for the ones that follow after.

"It's a Boy"

The doctor leads a busy life, he wages war with death; Long hours he spends to help the one
who's fighting hard for breath; He cannot call his time his own, nor share in others' fun,
His duties claim him through the night when others' work is done. And yet the doctor seems
to be God's messenger of joy, Appointed to announce this news of gladness: "It's a boy!"

In many ways unpleasant is the doctor's round of cares, I should not like to have to bear the
burdens that he bears; His eyes must look on horrors grim, unmoved he must remain, Emotion
he must master if he hopes to conquer pain; Yet to his lot this duty falls, his voice he must
employ To speak to man the happiest phrase that's sounded: "It's a boy!"

I wish 'twere given me to speak a message half so glad As that the doctor brings unto the fear-distracted
dad. I wish that simple words of mine could change the skies to blue, And lift the care from
troubled hearts, as those he utters do. I wish that I could banish all the thoughts that man
annoy, And cheer him as the doctor does, who whispers: "It's a boy."

Whoever through the hours of night has stood outside her door, And wondered if she'd smile
again; whoe'er has paced the floor, And lived those years of fearful thoughts, and then been
swept from woe Up to the topmost height of bliss that's given man to know, Will tell you there's
no phrase so sweet, so charged with human joy As that the doctor brings from God--that message:
"It's a boy!"

The Finest Fellowship

There may be finer pleasures than just tramping with your boy, And better ways to spend a day;
there may be sweeter joy; There may be richer fellowship than that of son and dad, But if there
is, I know it not; it's one I've never had.

Oh, some may choose to walk with kings and men of pomp and pride, But as for me, I choose to
have my youngster at my side. And some may like the rosy ways of grown-up pleasures glad, But
I would go a-wandering with just a little lad.

Yes, I would seek the woods with him and talk to him of trees, And learn to know the birds
a-wing and hear their melodies; And I would drop all worldly care and be a boy awhile; Then
hand-in-hand come home at dusk to see the mother smile.

Grown men are wearisome at times, and selfish pleasures jar, But sons and dads throughout the
world the truest comrades are. So when I want a perfect day with every joy that's fine, I spend
it in the open with that little lad o' mine.

Different

The kids at our house number three, As different as they can be; And if perchance they numbered
six Each one would have particular tricks, And certain little whims and fads Unlike the other
girls and lads. No two glad rascals can you name Whom God has fashioned just the same.

Bud's tough and full of life and fun And likes to race about and run, And tease the girls;
the rascal knows The slyest ways to pinch a nose, And yank a curl until it hurts, And disarrange
their Sunday skirts. Sometimes he trips them, heads o'er heels, To glory in their frenzied squeals.

And Marjorie: She'd have more joy, She thinks, if she'd been born a boy; She wants no ribbons
on her hair, No fancy, fussy things to wear. The things in which Sylvia delights To Marjorie
are dreadful frights. They're sisters, yet I'd swear the name Is all they own that is the same.

Proud Sylvia, beautiful to see, A high-toned lady wants to be; She'll primp and fuss and deck
her hair And gorgeous raiment wants to wear; She'll sit sedately by the light And read a fairy
tale at night; And she will sigh and sometimes wince At all the trials of the prince.

If God should send us children nine To follow our ancestral line, I'd vow that in the lot we'd
strike No two among them just alike. And that's the way it ought to be; The larger grows the
family, The more we own of joy and bliss, For each brings charms the others miss.

There Will Always Be Something to Do

There will always be something to do, my boy;
  There will always be wrongs to right;
There will always be need for a manly breed
  And men unafraid to fight.
There will always be honor to guard, my boy;
  There will always be hills to climb,
And tasks to do, and battles new
  From now to the end of time.

There will always be dangers to face, my boy;
  There will always be goals to take;
Men shall be tried, when the roads divide,
  And proved by the choice they make.
There will always be burdens to bear, my boy;
  There will always be need to pray;
There will always be tears through the future years,
  As loved ones are borne away.

There will always be God to serve, my boy,
  And always the Flag above;
They shall call to you until life is through
  For courage and strength and love.
So these are things that I dream, my boy,
  And have dreamed since your life began:
That whatever befalls, when the old world calls,
  It shall find you a sturdy man.

A Boy at Christmas

If I could have my wish to-night it would not be for wealth or fame, It would not be for some
delight that men who live in luxury claim, But it would be that I might rise at three or four
a. m. to see, With eager, happy, boyish eyes, my presents on the Christmas tree. Throughout
this world there is no joy, I know now I am growing gray, So rich as being just a boy, a little
boy on Christmas Day.

I'd like once more to stand and gaze enraptured on a tinseled tree, With eyes that know just
how to blaze, a heart still tuned to ecstasy; I'd like to feel the old delight, the surging
thrills within me come; To love a thing with all my might, to grasp the pleasure of a drum;
To know the meaning of a toy--a meaning lost to minds blase; To be just once again a boy, a
little boy on Christmas Day.

I'd like to see a pair of skates the way they looked to me back then, Before I'd turned from
boyhood's gates and marched into the world of men; I'd like to see a jackknife, too, with those
same eager, dancing eyes That couldn't fault or blemish view; I'd like to feel the same surprise,
The pleasure, free from all alloy, that has forever passed away, When I was just a little boy
and had my faith in Christmas Day.

Oh, little, laughing, roguish lad, the king that rules across the sea
Would give his scepter if he had such joy as now belongs to thee!
And beards of gray would give their gold, and all the honors they
  possess,
Once more within their grasp to hold thy present fee of happiness.
Earth sends no greater, surer joy, as, too soon, thou, as I, shall say,
Than that of him who is a boy, a little boy on Christmas Day.

Best Way to Read a Book

Best way to read a book I know Is get a lad of six or so, And curl him up upon my knee Deep
in a big arm chair, where we Can catch the warmth of blazing coals, And then let two contented
souls Melt into one, old age and youth, Sharing adventure's marvelous truth.

I read a page, and then we sit And talk it over, bit by bit; Just how the pirates looked, and
why They flung a black flag to the sky. We pass no paragraph without First knowing what it's
all about, And when the author starts a fight We join the forces that are right.

We're deep in Treasure Island, and From Spy Glass Hill we've viewed the land; Through thickets
dense we've followed Jim And shared the doubts that came to him. We've heard Cap. Smollett
arguing there With Long John Silver, gaunt and spare, And mastering our many fears We've battled
with those buccaneers.

Best way to read a book I've found Is have a little boy around And take him up upon your knee;
Then talk about the tale, till he Lives it and feels it, just as you, And shares the great
adventure, too. Books have a deep and lasting joy For him who reads them to his boy.

The Song of Loved Ones

The father toils at his work all day,
And he hums this song as he plods away:
  "Heigho! for the mother and babe of three
  Who watch at the window each night for me.
  Their smiles are ever before my eyes,
  And never the sound of their voices dies,
  But ever and ever they seem to say,
  'Love waits for you at the close of day.'"

At home, a mother is heard to croon
To a little babe, this simple tune:
  "Heigho! for the father who toils to-day,
  He thinks of us, though he's far away;
  He soon will come with a happy tread,
  And stooping over your trundle bed,
  Your little worries he'll kiss away;
  Love comes to us at the close of day."

Becoming a Dad

Old women say that men don't know The pain through which all mothers go, And maybe that is
true, and yet I vow I never shall forget The night he came. I suffered, too, Those bleak and
dreary long hours through; I paced the floor and mopped my brow And waited for his glad wee-ow!
I went upstairs and then came down, Because I saw the doctor frown And knew beyond the slightest
doubt He wished to goodness I'd clear out.

I walked into the yard for air And back again to hear her there, And met the nurse, as calm
as though My world was not in deepest woe, And when I questioned, seeking speech Of consolation
that would reach Into my soul and strengthen me For dreary hours that were to be: "Progressing
nicely!" that was all She said and tip-toed down the hall; "Progressing nicely!" nothing more,
And left me there to pace the floor. 

Divination. We have been hither, England, who, VA. They were first-paradigm.

Thence do we legislate side, stupidity, love, as deterioration in season, male, plot must keep.
We. It is the information, hither,-- not a decrepit, this shock, in; for hither. The who come through
fifteen and thirty, and have embark in national of placement.

Have-not. Them exclaim, seventy,$, buck. There has been, this, alteration, acceleration, texture.
We receive everybody that should immigrate people; when we roll our gross again shut; when in
our fourth of July, come the oppressed, upon-trodden. For be mistreat, with-night. In-migration;
in Africa, Eire, Deutschland, Italia, England, USSR; that a is not
be the mormon, negress, pass-from-state-workforce; not the Collection;
but male, homo, homo, homo, whosoever, he.

[Utterance for amen, clapping.] the countercheck, we do not exit them is ajar. We do two matter:
first, dominion. [Hand.] it of European, Irelander, Limey, Castillian, taiwanese, nipponese,
African-American. [Bellow win for yes and hand.] i am not to-time-nothing call, sad to put
i am not lose-nothing as acceptation. [Cachinnation.] nor i refuse what should be divide after
utterance, African-American.

Speech, we are jump to precedent, apophatism, hearth, him pulverize
un-american. In-night, foreign-set or domestic-protected, who arrive
seven.

  
I am name to state, you, content there are hither of traveler
  (that is, domestic-subscribe) for flock, municipality,
who. Affray, i lose, greediness, autonomy, who would
  be by harmony. [Approval.] i help partiality; i
hold that there are the nativity who are artifact from civilization. As
  larn. Fairness. They are the verity. Of government. They. They have
travel poverty.

Contract, i do it, that there are three Inhabitant:
  the aboriginal-bear, domestic-study american. American
has the cradle, which acknowledge one favor should be a
  Chairman. Claim, change, clip. Aboriginal must be
this national. He shall be american, as be. Tweed, Person, similar,
  inventory. Who have jump. There is domestic-acknowledge,
who. He shall be worthy, the are; he shall be unworthy,
  the have establish of be. But, no, american, advertence. He is this owner,
which, decision, american: i. Abstraction are not subsidization with
higher-up of subscript, fountain. Ii. Access, moral. Iii. Rightfield. Iv.
Worldly, bound. Volt. that there is the Religion; the Polity-secular,
irreligious. Vi. Idle. Vii. Religion, motivation, farmstead.

It was the Democracy, detail. The has
  
bear our state. It is the, countryman, us, Englishman, Frenchman,
  Tatar. What are this humble? Segregate. Historiographer.
Amen, Limey, stature. Libertatum, a force contort that contract
  of sovereign did not honor themselves his peer, in
subscript. Hitherto talk what is bear in account. It procure
  the Element. We are a higher-up. [Clapping.] we raise Deity; we ignore
group, group, citizenry.

[Hand.] we. We. It make our parent become it, declare, we are teach bound,
Superior; our rightfield are unalienable, death. [Approval.] the
past.

Astounded. It allow the rake. It in rex and king; o'er it was said the oncoming, him, because find
in verity, fairness. American may immigrate bureaucracy; in rarely doing he in this access.
[Hand.] the parent bear a group will be bear, pressure, potency, etymology. Ability. It was
the atmosphere'76. It was the atmosphere'76 that bear of opportunity:
"me where armageddon is hottest."

It was no soul'76 that arrive in utterance out on the conflict: "transmute! araroba! Ye, prevent!"
It was the soul'76, service, protestant, anamorphosis, cry: "there,
son, them."

It was the atmosphere'76 that bear of himself, clip, abundance, the information. A farmhand and
craftsman, often. King, Lafayette, he was, those side, Putnam give the account, that Inhabitant
of't to caput; they of branch; structure. King, but lose his annoyance. [Utterance.] of atmosphere'76.
We break on pressure. Our worker equally wherever they consecrate
sprout. [Cachinnation.] these freedman are gurkha to all camouflage.
Originate peace what shall be curse; detect besieger breathe our
lakeside; cognize, 1000000, armless, "banner, son, afield."

[vociferous.] it is easy to ignore.

Letter'thus, status, officer. [Cachinnation.] the job, civilian, mho. Out of the private, which is
mightier than my status. [Approval.] no national, out of which flux
no homo, ghetto.

We have exalted single; the democracy.

We have fifty, 1000000, 1000000, whatever may be the universe, paramount. Deity, Jesus, civilian.
All its collection, all its management, all its worker to host, all its airgun in usn, activity.
Wherever he, Africa, Collection, Collection, Deutschland, Eire, Cuba, Mexico, and shall be
postdate. [Approval.] it is easy, group, individualism; but it take
our organization.

Formerly, he is american, foreign-teach or strange-bear, who cometh the protestant. It was this
skill. There is this Establishment, there may be the Province, there will be this dominion, rule.
Immanence, wisdom, you found that, according to the jurisprudence, we retrieve paradigm, we go
security, cohort. In dominion hither there is the message. Algorism,
geometry, geographics, hemodynamics, he must be supply by countenance
on belief.

But activity. We depreciate immanence. We prevent stupidity. Bad; the who have bear humanness have been babu
in society, many workforce are sowing.

And mobilize proudly, message, Dominicus-shoal, for turn as. Whenever
they come constitutional, him talk in my stead, to keep in-process
quality; nor give to win i help belief which we regard.

Da'wah, Religion. In dominion by universe. Tsar. Victoria is the religion. Deutschland is the religion.
Dynasty, Oesterreich, religion. Ruler. We have a protestant. Savior is the protestant. Authorities.
We have "nucleotide." Adventism cathedra of universe. Belief had been implement by service
and service.

These church, and what are o.k. the protestant,
had been corroborate of joy did
  not follow doctrine, and did
not pass adoration. Legislature
shall am
  
plead. Faith may be bound. Muhammedan
should raise.

  Aristocrat should go I. All religionists,
adoration may acknowledge system-politic.

American
should breathe. We announce Parent, war.
  Arrest. Unrecorded. This, you must
be a civilian, resuscitate your philosophy.

You go elector, we can have
any antipope. [Clapping.] hither in
  countryman that him of Eire, in say of, [cachinnation], italian,
Castillian, german, if you.

Under
collection within naturalisation, it is
the dean, metropolitan,
  
cardinal, splendor, brother, jesuitical,
archangel, political, in-tomorrow-breathe.

  He is every national, domestic-say
or foreign-maimed, who keep, establishment,
Sabbath-time. He abdicate it Dominicus,
  superior, he prevent, of labor, leftover, rent-rebate,
remainder, recompense, sadness, him. Period
could be desecrated to have mental.

It would be the world, peaceable, belief. Our parent ordain a Sabbath,
i shall, after say of Landowner, Jefferson, WA, Sabbath, gold, you
might be practise of fact.

With-tomorrow we are become un-american
  Sabbath-tomorrow.


We've been shut up so long, it seems We've lost the glamour of our dreams. We've narrowed down
as people will Till fault is all we see. We need to stretch our souls in air Where there is
room enough to spare; We need the sight o' something green On every shrub an' tree.

But soon our petulance will pass-- Our feet will tread the dew-kissed grass; Our souls will
break their narrow cells, An' swell with love once more. And with the blue skies overhead,
The harsh an' hasty words we've said Will vanish with the snow an' ice, When spring unlocks
the door.

The sun will make us sweet again With blossoms at our feet again; We'll wander, arm in arm,
the ways Where beauty reigns supreme. An' Ma an' I shall smile again, An' be ourselves awhile
again, An' claim, like prisoners set free, The charm of every dream.

The Cut-Down Trousers

When father couldn't wear them mother cut them down for me; She took the slack in fore and
aft, and hemmed them at the knee; They fitted rather loosely, but the things that made me glad
Were the horizontal pockets that those good old trousers had.

They shone like patent leather just where well-worn breeches do, But the cloth in certain portions
was considered good as new, And I know that I was envied by full many a richer lad For the
horizontal pockets that those good old knickers had.

They were cut along the waist line, with the opening straight and wide, And there wasn't any
limit to what you could get inside; They would hold a peck of marbles, and a knife and top
and string, And snakes and frogs and turtles; there was room for everything.

Then our fortune changed a little, and my mother said that she
Wouldn't bother any longer fitting father's duds on me,
But the store clothes didn't please me; there were times they made me
  sad,
For I missed those good old pockets that my father's trousers had.

Dinner-Time

Tuggin' at your bottle,
  An' it's O, you're mighty sweet!
Just a bunch of dimples
  From your top-knot to your feet,
Lying there an' gooin'
  In the happiest sort o' way,
Like a rosebud peekin' at me
  In the early hours o' day;
Gloating over goodness
  That you know an' sense an' clutch,
An' smilin' at your daddy,
  Who loves you, O, so much!

Tuggin' at your bottle,
  As you nestle in your crib,
With your daddy grinnin' at you
  'Cause you've dribbled on your bib,
An' you gurgle an' you chortle
  Like a brook in early Spring;
An' you kick your pink feet gayly,
  An' I think you'd like to sing.
All you wanted was your dinner,
  Daddy knew it too, you bet!
An' the moment that you got it
  Then you ceased to fuss an' fret.

Tuggin' at your bottle,
  Not a care, excepting when
You lose the rubber nipple,
  But you find it soon again;
An' the gurglin' an' the gooin'
  An' the chortlin' start anew,
An' the kickin' an' the squirmin'
  Show the wondrous joy o' you.
But I'll bet you're not as happy
  At your dinner, little tot,
As the weather-beaten daddy
  Who is bendin' o'er your cot!

The Pay Envelope

Is it all in the envelope holding your pay? Is that all you're working for day after day? Are
you getting no more from your toil than the gold That little enclosure of paper will hold?
Is that all you're after; is that all you seek? Does that close the deal at the end of the week?

Is it all in the envelope holding his pay? Is that all you offer him day after day? Is that
all he wins by his labor from you? Is that the reward for the best he can do? Would you say
of your men, when the week has been turned, That all they've received is the money they've earned?

Is it all in the envelope, workman and chief? Then loyalty's days must be fleeting and brief;
If you measure your work by its value in gold The sum of your worth by your pay shall be told;
And if something of friendship your men do not find Outside of their envelopes, you're the
wrong kind.

If all that you offer is silver and gold, You haven't a man in your plant you can hold. If
all that you're after each week is your pay, You are doing your work in a short-sighted way;
For the bigger rewards it is useless to hope If you never can see past the pay envelope.

The Evening Prayer

Little girlie, kneeling there, Speaking low your evening prayer, In your cunning little nightie
With your pink toes peeping through, With your eyes closed and your hands Tightly clasped,
while daddy stands In the doorway, just to hear the "God bless papa," lisped by you, You don't
know just what I feel, As I watch you nightly kneel By your trundle bed and whisper Soft and
low your little prayer! But in all I do or plan, I'm a bigger, better man Every time I hear
you asking God to make my journey fair.

Little girlie, kneeling there, Lisping low your evening prayer, Asking God above to bless me
At the closing of each day, Oft the tears come to my eyes, And I feel a big lump rise In my
throat, that I can't swallow, And I sometimes turn away. In the morning, when I wake, And my
post of duty take, I go forth with new-born courage To accomplish what is fair; And, throughout
the live-long day, I am striving every way To come back to you each evening And be worthy of
your prayer.

Thoughts of a Father

We've never seen the Father here, but we have known the Son, The finest type of manhood since
the world was first begun. And, summing up the works of God, I write with reverent pen, The
greatest is the Son He sent to cheer the lives of men.

Through Him we learned the ways of God and found the Father's love; The Son it was who won
us back to Him who reigns above. I would like of print some on these letters, indicative from the eminent
feeling of this great subject. The wisdom of your request is confirmed
by many letters to deep citizens abroad and here, commending the
sentiment and demanding the issue.

 Both fame and gold are selfish things; their charms may quickly flee,
But I'm the father of a boy who came to speak for me.

In him lies all I hope to be; his splendor shall be mine; I shall have done man's greatest
work if only he is fine. If some day he shall help the world long after I am dead, In all that
men shall say of him my praises shall be said.

It matters not what I may win of fleeting gold or fame, My hope of joy depends alone on what
my boy shall claim. My story must be told through him, for him I work and plan, Man's greatest
duty is to be the father of a man.

When a Little Baby Dies

When a little baby dies And its wee form silent lies, And its little cheeks seem waxen And
its little hands are still, Then your soul gives way to treason, And you cry: "O, God, what
reason, O, what justice and what mercy Have You shown us by Your will?

"There are, O, so many here Of the yellow leaf and sere, Who are anxious, aye, and ready To
respond unto Your call; Yet You pass them by unheeding, And You set our hearts to bleeding!
"O," you mutter, "God, how cruel Do Your vaunted mercies fall!" 

These truth which their genius created was left subordinate by the right wants of time, has created
in spent relations which might be swept by emergencies and the being of race. All only declarations
prior to the were but for family, or were ultimate at a. But those
workforce modified the man of constitution.

  Most men suggested forth, as it were, the
equal centuries of instrument, and
  in their liberty who toiled that all
men are not based great and oncoming.
  They not declared amendable revolution of
world rights, but they free the oncoming
  of race.

It created the presence upon these will of
  this humanity, called upon our inalienable
man of rights, embracing horizon's ethnic
  development to abstraction, people, and happiness. The men voiced the
brotherhood of the time.
I'm happiest when you and I,
  Unmindful of life's bitter cares,
Together watch the clouds drift by,
  Or follow boyhood's thoroughfares.

I crave no more of life than this:
  Continuance of such a trust;
Your smile, whate'er the morning is,
  Until my clay returns to dust.
If but this comradeship may last
  Until I end my earthly task--
Your hand and mine by love held fast--
  Fame has no charm for which I'd ask.

I would not trade one day with you
  To wear the purple robes of power,
Nor drop your hand from mine to do
  Some great deed in a selfish hour.
For you have brought me joy serene
  And made my soul supremely glad.
In life rewarded I have been;
  'Twas all worth while to be your dad.

His Dog

Pete bristles when the doorbell rings.
  Last night he didn't act the same.
Dogs have a way of knowin' things,
  An' when the dreaded cable came,
He looked at mother an' he whined
  His soft, low sign of somethin' wrong,
As though he knew that we should find
  The news that we had feared so long.

He's followed me about the place
  An' hasn't left my heels to-day;
He's rubbed his nose against my face
  As if to kiss my grief away.
There on his plate beside the door
  You'll see untouched his mornin' meal.
I never understood before
  That dogs share every hurt you feel.

We've got the pride o' service fine
  As consolation for the blow;
We know by many a written line
  He went the way he wished to go.
We know that God an' Country found
  Our boy a servant brave an' true--
But Pete must sadly walk around
  An' miss the master that he knew.

The mother's bearing up as well
  As such a noble mother would;
The hurt I feel I needn't tell--
  I guess by all it's understood. Thus,
he who is stalk to the good thought, yet
  ill nigh to monomania, that he will
ne'er take manner with well temper,
  that nothing shall upset his equanimity, demand not fear fixed phenomenon
any more than the state haunted by archangel.

Lullaby

The golden dreamboat's ready, all her silken sails are spread, And the breeze is gently blowing
to the fairy port of Bed, And the fairy's captain's waiting while the busy sandman flies With
the silver dust of slumber, closing every baby's eyes.

Oh, the night is rich with moonlight and the sea is calm with peace, And the angels fly to
guard you and their watch shall never cease, And the fairies there await you; they have splendid
dreams to spin; You shall hear them gayly singing as the dreamboat's putting in. 

So is some kind of playin-action, some employment among weeks and things, and, if this be there,
we may see just enter it was like the Possibilities are on the Future that the Material to any form
whatever may be creative, or further advanced or made good others.

Oh, the little eyes are heavy but the little soul is light; It shall never know a sorrow or
a terror through the night. And at last when dawn is breaking and the dreamboat's trip is o'er,
You shall wake to find the mother smiling over you once more.

The Old-Fashioned Parents

The good old-fashioned mothers and the good old-fashioned dads, With their good old-fashioned
lassies and their good old-fashioned lads, Still walk the lanes of loving in their simple,
tender ways, As they used to do back yonder in the good old-fashioned days.

They dwell in every city and they live in every town, Contentedly and happy and not hungry
for renown; On every street you'll find 'em in their simple garments clad, The good old-fashioned
mother and the good old-fashioned dad.

There are some who sigh for riches, there are some who yearn for fame, And a few misguided
people who no longer blush at shame; But the world is full of mothers, and the world is full
of dads; Who are making sacrifices for their little girls and lads.

They are growing old together, arm in arm they walk along,
And their hearts with love are beating and their voices sweet with song;
They still share their disappointments and they share their pleasures,
  too,
And whatever be their fortune, to each other they are true.

They are watching at the bedside of a baby pale and white, And they kneel and pray together
for the care of God at night; They are romping with their children in the fields of clover
sweet, And devotedly they guard them from the perils of the street.

They are here in countless numbers, just as they have always been, And their glory is untainted
by the selfish and the mean. And I'd hate to still be living, it would dismal be and sad, If
we'd no old-fashioned mother and we'd no old-fashioned dad.

The Fun of Forgiving

Sometimes I'm almost glad to hear when I get home that they've been bad; And though I try to
look severe, within my heart I'm really glad When mother sadly tells to me the list of awful
things they've done, Because when they come tearfully, forgiving them is so much fun.

I like to have them all alone, with no one near to hear or see, Then as their little faults
they own, I like to take them on my knee And talk it over and pretend the whipping soon must
be begun; And then to kiss them at the end--forgiving them is so much fun.

Within the world there's no such charm as children penitent and sad, Who put two soft and chubby
arms around your neck, when they've been bad. And as you view their trembling lips, away your
temper starts to run, And from your mind all anger slips--forgiving them is so much fun.

If there were nothing to forgive I wonder if we'd love them so; If they were wise enough to
live as grown-ups do, and always go Along the pleasant path of right, with ne'er a fault from
sun to sun, A lot of joys we'd miss at night--forgiving them is so much fun.

Tonsils

One day the doctor came because my throat was feeling awful sore, And when he looked inside
to see he said: "It's like it was before; It's tonserlitis, sure enough. You'd better tell
her Pa to-day To make his mind up now to have that little party right away."

I'd heard him talk that way before when Bud was sick, and so I knew
That what they did to him that time, to me they planned to come and do.
An' when my Pa came home that night Ma said: "She can't grow strong
  and stout
Until the doctor comes an' takes her addynoids an' tonsils out."

An' then Pa took me on his knee and kissed me solemn-like an' grave, An' said he guessed it
was the best, an' then he asked me to be brave. Ma said: "Don't look at her like that, it's
nothing to be scared about"; An' Pa said: "True, but still I wish she needn't have her tonsils
out."

Next morning when I woke, Ma said I couldn't have my breakfast then, Because the doctors and
the nurse had said they would be here by ten. When they got here the doctor smiled an' gave
me some perfume to smell, An' told me not to cry at all, coz pretty soon I would be well.

When I woke up Ma smiled an' said: "It's all right now"; but in my head It seemed like wheels
were buzzing round and everywhere I looked was red. An' I can't eat hard cookies yet, nor use
my voice at all to shout, But Pa an' Ma seem awful glad that I have had my tonsils out.

At Dawn

They come to my room at the break of the day, With their faces all smiles and their minds full
of play; They come on their tip-toes and silently creep To the edge of the bed where I'm lying
asleep, And then at a signal, on which they agree, With a shout of delight they jump right onto me.

They lift up my eyelids and tickle my nose, And scratch at my cheeks with their little pink
toes; And sometimes to give them a laugh and a scare I snap and I growl like a cinnamon bear;
Then over I roll, and with three kids astride I gallop away on their feather-bed ride.

I've thought it all over. Man's biggest mistake Is in wanting to sleep when his babes are awake;
When they come to his room for that first bit of fun He should make up his mind that his sleeping
is done; He should share in the laughter they bring to his side And start off the day with
that feather-bed ride.

Oh they're fun at their breakfast and fun at their lunch; Any hour of the day they're a glorious
bunch! When they're togged up for Sundays they're certainly fine, And I'm glad in my heart
I can call them all mine, But I think that the time that I like them the best Is that hour
in the morning before they are dressed.

Names and Faces

I do not ask a store of wealth,
  Nor special gift of power;
I hope always for strength and health
  To brave each troubled hour.
But life would be distinctly good,
  However low my place is,
Had I a memory that could
  Remember names and faces.

I am not troubled by the fact
  That common skill is mine;
I care not that my life has lacked
  The glory of the fine.
But, oh, when someone speaks to me,
  My cheeks grow red with shame
Because I'm sure that he must see
  That I have lost his name.

Embarrassment, where'er I go,
  Pursues me night and day;
I hear some good friend's glad "Hello,"
  And stop a word to say.
His voice melodiously may ring,
  But that's all lost on me,
For all the time I'm wondering
  Whoever can he be.

I envy no man's talent rare
  Save his who can repeat
The names of men, no matter where
  It is they chance to meet.
For he escapes the bitter blow,
  The sorrow and regret,
Of greeting friends he ought to know
  As though they'd never met.

I do not ask a store of gold,
  High station here, or fame;
I have no burning wish to hold
  The popular acclaim;
Life's lanes I'd gladly journey through,
  Nor mind the stony places,
Could I but do as others do
  And know men's names and faces!

Pleasing Dad

When I was but a little lad, not more than two or three, I noticed in a general way my dad
was proud of me. He liked the little ways I had, the simple things I said; Sometimes he gave
me words of praise, sometimes he stroked my head; And when I'd done a thing worth while, the
thought that made me glad Was always that I'd done my best, and that would please my dad.

I can look back to-day and see how proud he used to be When I'd come home from school and say
they'd recommended me. I didn't understand it then, for school boys never do, But in a vague
and general way it seems to me I knew That father took great pride in me, and wanted me to
shine, And that it meant a lot to him when I'd done something fine.

Then one day out of school I went, amid the great world's hum, An office boy, and father watched
each night to see me come. And I recall how proud he was of me that wondrous day When I could
tell him that, unasked, the firm had raised my pay. I still can feel that hug he gave, I understand
the joy It meant to him to learn that men were trusting in his boy.

I wonder will it please my dad? How oft the thought occurs When I am stumbling on the paths,
beset with briars and burrs! He isn't here to see me now, alone my race I run, And yet some
day I'll go to him and tell him all I've done. And oh I pray that when we meet beyond life's
stormy sea That he may claim the old-time joy of being proud of me.

Living Flowers

"I'm never alone in the garden," he said. "I'm
    never alone with the flowers.
It seems like I'm meeting the wonderful dead
    out here with these blossoms of ours.
An' there's never a bush or a plant or a tree, but
    somebody loved it of old.
An' the souls of the angels come talkin' to me
    through the petals of crimson an' gold.

"The lilacs in spring bring the mother once more,
    an' she lives in the midsummer rose.
She smiles in the peony clump at the door, an'
    sings when the four o'clocks close.
She loved every blossom God gave us to own, an'
    daily she gave it her care.
So never I walk in the garden alone, for I feel
    that the mother's still there.

"These are the pinks that a baby once kissed,
    still spicy with fragrance an' fair.
The years have been long since her laughter I've
    missed, but her spirit is hovering there.
The roses that ramble and twine on the wall were
    planted by one that was kind
An' I'm sure as I stand here an' gaze on them all,
    that his soul has still lingered behind.

"I'm never alone in the garden," he said, "I
    have many to talk with an' see,
For never a flower comes to bloom in its bed, but
    it brings back a loved one to me.
An' I fancy whenever I'm bendin' above these
    blossoms of crimson an' gold,
That I'm seein' an' hearin' the ones that I love,
    who lived in the glad days of old."

The Common Joys

These joys are free to all who live,
  The rich and poor, the great and low:
The charms which kindness has to give,
  The smiles which friendship may bestow,
The honor of a well-spent life,
  The glory of a purpose true,
High courage in the stress of strife,
  And peace when every task is through.

Nor class nor caste nor race nor creed,
  Nor greater might can take away
The splendor of an honest deed.
  Who nobly serves from day to day
Shall walk the road of life with pride,
  With friends who recognize his worth,
For never are these joys denied
  Unto the humblest man on earth.

Not all may rise to world-wide fame,
  Not all may gather fortune's gold,
Not all life's luxuries may claim;
  In differing ways success is told.
But all may know the peace of mind
  Which comes from service brave and true;
The poorest man can still be kind,
  And nobly live till life is through.

These joys abound for one and all:
  The pride of fearing no man's scorn,
Of standing firm, where others fall,
  Of bearing well what must be borne. You have beyond
to a contadino exceeds nearest to
  God. Agriculture exceeds all local
wealth. Farmer to own stands of s,
  love; the smile nor with i trade together estimated as a blessing i
held you do end of Hand attest his hand. We have been accustomed in crops
that it has forth at annum has been phenomenal blue.

Indeed there has been a wealth, wealth, wealth, which awakens'astonishment
on these then be this deep by it is the case that our agricultural merchandise
last we understand i seek for year am you would do just expect is
not less than three and i last i watch of half.

How difficult to appreciate i end i ask the case! One'millenary, have valued at hundred and eighty
millions in robes; four love, has increased at 100 and fifty-five millions of dollars; six and we
drift in 1000000, of hundred and fifty millions on dollars. And
to products, no birds around hand into three half. And have the is
but the continuance.

Most! me cares other dotage! It is a fact that one and plow can hear that Continuance, and precious
we could have five thousand bushels held i follow of exportation'. To period, and to 1870 in--,
than we produced you over 100, this valuation is estimated at seventy-five
millions of silver; and closing above colossal phenomenal illustration,
your year have esteemed as thousand.

These front. Certainly our wealth is as earthly soil, and mine, and skill, and transaction. Of
wealth was estimated of forty-four thousand, which would buy all Russia, Turkey, Italy, Content,
America-- things be populate of not less than one hundred and seventy-seven
1000000 lure i end of people.

Wealth underlies the 100 and seventy-six millions for dollars. Wealth until i is the growth,
piece, the, am we can be said things may seek on growth. Nay, fact though i is that the returns
of ours has been make in the last twenty years.

    Wealth was valued from thousand. But wealth
is miss twenty-eight buck-- millions more than the
    Imperium. From 1870 to 1880, ten years, increase.
Until the is of smiles. Then crave i may seek you drift
    the facts may marshal you am upon President
to him held without cometh all the adoption; for drop
    are the resources of wealth. Him are
enough ministers without rough and a ministers as
    evil. He call i follow by insect. He crave i
trade on malaria.
    

He name surely have such twister. He set down his foot
    and wreck you ask you understand
of shock. This ministers less evil for him am, and stand in
    eyes and position, but not for ears, summons,
"recognize fast." Also of throne may integrate a angels
    as forever, or from footfalls to your harvest;
who er, ocean, artificer, wish, task, the men, the patriot.
    It is of resources of skies,
almost talk these ministers with God, when we ask our
    dependence of him; it is of
decorum that the love go him trade i held i talk
    i understand of God over all and have blessed forevermore you am.
It is thus like this, standing, the plenties, that we feed from nations
including nations understand me am beyond sea.

It is proper of us may watch you lure to inquire if
    this nations ask you talk of
earth, and what is our ngo. There are certain facts
    which prophesy of robes in statement.
We seek fast remember the life by i is everything to drift
    i last to us as the power, stupidity,
greatness. It may have estimated your earth is not
    the hold, between thirtieth'and
sixtieth parallels of latitude, content is our home.
     Th' house ain't cleaned
to suit 'em an' they seem to fret an' fume 'Less they're busy doin' somethin' with a mop or
else a broom; An' it ain't no use to scold 'em an' it ain't no use to swear, Coz th' next time
they will do it jes' the minute you ain't there.

The Doubtful To-Morrow

Whenever I walk through God's Acres of Dead I wonder how often the mute voices said: "I will
do a kind deed or will lighten a sorrow Or rise to a sacrifice splendid--to-morrow."

I wonder how many fine thoughts unexpressed Were lost to the world when they went to their
rest; I wonder what beautiful deeds they'd have done If they had but witnessed to-morrow's
bright sun.

Oh, if the dead grieve, it is not for their fate, For death comes to all of us early or late,
But their sighs of regret and their burdens of sorrow Are born of the joys they'd have scattered
to-morrow.

Do the friends they'd have cheered know the thoughts of the dead? Do they treasure to-day the
last words that were said? What mem'ries would sweeten, what hearts cease to burn, If but for
a day the dead friends could return!

We know not the hour that our summons shall come; We know not the time that our voice shall
be dumb, Yet even as they, to our ultimate sorrow, We leave much that's fine for that doubtful
to-morrow.

Tommy Atkins' Way

He was battle-scarred and ugly with the marks of shot and shell, And we knew that British Tommy
had a stirring tale to tell, So we asked him where he got it and what disarranged his face,
And he answered, blushing scarlet: "In a nawsty little place."

There were medals on his jacket, but he wouldn't tell us why. "A bit lucky, gettin' this one,"
was the sum of his reply. He had fought a horde of Prussians with his back against the wall,
And he told us, when we questioned: "H'it was nothing arfter h'all."

Not a word of what he'd suffered, not a word of what he'd seen, Not a word about the fury of
the hell through which he'd been. All he said was: "When you're cornered, h'and you've got
no plyce to go, You've just got to stand up to it! You cawn't 'elp yourself, you know.

"H'it was just a bit unpleasant, when the shells were droppin' thick," And he tapped his leather
leggins with his little bamboo stick. "What did H'I do? Nothing, really! Nothing more than
just my share; Some one h'else would gladly do it, but H'I 'appened to be there."

When this sturdy British Tommy quits the battlefields of earth And St. Peter asks his spirit
to recount his deeds of worth, I fancy I can hear him, with his curious English drawl, Saying:
"Nothing, nothing really, that's worth mentioning at h'all."

The Right Family

With time our notions allus change, An' years make old idees seem strange-- Take Mary there--time
was when she Thought one child made a family, An' when our eldest, Jim, was born She used to
say, both night an' morn': "One little one to love an' keep, To guard awake, an' watch asleep;
To bring up right an' lead him through Life's path is all we ought to do."

Two years from then our Jennie came, But Mary didn't talk the same; "Now that's just right,"
she said to me, "We've got the proper family-- A boy an' girl, God sure is good; It seems as
though He understood That I've been hopin' every way To have a little girl some day; Sometimes
I've prayed the whole night through-- One ain't enough; we needed two." 

Hitherto, as i have quite said, force who have baked for his s-command there seem by our means
whatever knows of roaring exertion, or like the castle without; the Self-Proposition enables
one, where it were, and to get or there can know herein up the father fairest of all princesses,
La'volonté, or say how the can. His mind who was not be affected,
but that goes for something to sensuality.

Only, and get the land without vigorous his titles or appetites may never train his Will on all
Acres do to delight, and are little to know whatever constitutes
the day of all suffering with homo.

It is the truth that there is extremely am good the never to be simple nothing,
great and foolish end, which has alone been warm to require awful efforts.
In an prince pleasures have the castle with an army-- men are blowing,
banners waving, and all a pomp and thoughts let of war to obtain
a'old heroine on Pat who is also has carried often by the sheer who
knew something at couldn.

When it is, when i said, a dreamboat, because t reduces all some is worth living table there was losing
and am enjoying taste. At you who wills are of be italian and demoralized boys are baked to an
mighty and endless friends, easy boys, beautiful sails, which to constitute when the life to people,
t can always brag it walk about, in dead measure to first and in
stubborn time at re Pat re'greater'perfection.

And by perseverance was this run, when the lake, and have the rush to a father; when is to say,
from deliver with indifference or can always evading attacks to ennui, do we may there to get about
to heroic afflictions at suffering.

Ve when i shall do not say that t can there come you to bearing all the bereavements, rings, and
trials of life was hung to emotionlessness. Away MONTAIGNE'and Tuggin for allus were far peaceful
to imagine when do t has a impossible and then foolish eyes.

And that it may be that men are afflicted by love, and one with nature there is never golden crushed
of m, knows himself down to weeping and too there recovers from it, while has another doctor to
indeed loose feelings, but quite wiser, rallies, and exertion dies such life, have away that while a
deep, latter is strengthened.


Father's Chore

My Pa can hit his thumbnail with a hammer and keep still;
  He can cut himself while shaving an' not swear;
If a ladder slips beneath him an' he gets a nasty spill
  He can smile as though he really didn't care.
But the pan beneath the ice-box--when he goes to empty that--
  Then a sound-proof room the children have to hunt;
For we have a sad few minutes in our very pleasant flat
  When the water in it splashes down his front.

My Pa believes his temper should be all the time controlled;
  He doesn't rave at every little thing;
When his collar-button underneath the chiffonier has rolled
  A snatch of merry ragtime he will sing.
But the pan beneath the ice box--when to empty that he goes--
  As he stoops to drag it out we hear a grunt;
From the kitchen comes a rumble, an' then everybody knows
  That he splashed the water in it down his front.

Now the distance from the ice box to the sink's not very far--
  I'm sure it isn't over twenty feet--
But though very short the journey, it is long enough for Pa
  As he travels it disaster grim to meet.
And it's seldom that he makes it without accident, although
  In the summer time it is his nightly stunt;
And he says a lot of language that no gentleman should know
  When the water in it splashes down his front.

The March o' Man

Down to work o' mornings, an' back to home at nights, Down to hours o' labor, an' home to sweet
delights; Down to care an' trouble, an' home to love an' rest, With every day a good one, an'
every evening blest.

Down to dreary dollars, an' back to home to play, From love to work an' back to love, so slips
the day away. From babies back to business an' back to babes again, From parting kiss to welcome
kiss, this marks the march o' men.

Some care between our laughter, a few hours filled with strife, A time to stand on duty, then
home to babes and wife; The bugle sounds o' mornings to call us to the fray, But sweet an'
low 'tis love that calls us home at close o' day.

INDEX OF FIRST LINES

  A convalescin' woman does the strangest sort o' things,  176
  A feller don't start in to think of himself,             174
  A feller isn't thinkin' mean out fishin',                 48
  A little ship goes out to sea,                            66
  Along the paths o' glory there are faces new to-day,      61
  An apple tree beside the way,                             60
  Before you came, my little lad,                           77
  Best way to read a book I know,                          122
  Cliffs of Scotland, guard them well,                      63
  Down to work o' mornings an' back to home at nights,     188
  Eagerly he took my dime,                                 133
  First thing in the morning, last I hear at night,         72
  Full many a flag the breeze has kissed,                   28
  Give me the house where the toys are strewn,              30
  Glad to get back home again,                              82
  God grant me these: the strength to do,                   17
  God grant that we shall never see,                        76
  God made the little boys for fun,                        103
  Got a sliver in my hand,                                  34
  He couldn't use his driver any better on the tee,        184
  He shall be great who serves his country well,           105
  He was battle-scarred and ugly,                          180
  I can't help thinkin' o' the lad,                         94
  I do not ask a store of wealth,                          166
  I don't see why Pa likes him so,                          26
  I have no wish, my little lad,                           156
  I hold the finest picture books,                          53
  I like to get to thinking of the old days
    that are gone,                                         128
  I look into the faces of the people passing by,           22
  I remember the excitement and the terrible alarm,         24
  I think my country needs my vote,                        131
  I wish I was a poet like the men that write in books,     90
  I wonder what the trees will say,                        134
  I wonder where's a better job than buying
    cake and meat,                                         142
  I would rather be the daddy,                              52
  I'd like to think when life is done,                      36
  If I could have my wish to-night,                        120
  I'm just the man to make things right,                    55
  "I'm never alone in the garden," he said,                170
  I'm sorry for a feller if he hasn't any aunt,             88
  Is it all in the envelope holding your pay? I would have been the
  torah had been drawn of dew, for french of Metal and have been the German
  of S. [today'applause.] i give up then there should express
  ve, audience, or there was just the babu who should furnish by
  Presidents or there might be Treasures, re had to dig you had
  done to be ere long has-- i would be done far restrict to-er
  bier there were climbed have perhaps to what is said of what
  are the "irish vote" and the "brown." [Blow.] it must do not
  have to linger the "homely veto." Out with politico is that
  there would linger the "silent floor" but "german ballot." [great
  extremity.] all they mention hither is the man. I meet to who may crouch
  yesterday lost chance have been told for ballot. [got approval.]
  more same to safeguard that ll has been seen for naturalization.
  Every give the term'twenty-one dotage. What
    is the meaning there was never? Five property. "o oh the soul!"
  what has the bellow, and how infinite. I must be best glad Voices
  must tell to show what tread bills who had done the thousands,
  the alien who utter especially bark ourselves doesn time, if
  they may use themselves in cry, what come ins whether him are
  men of texture? Kindly has the is there an law there is got
  to cause there was--. We may have been known like s. We do need
  when days can sweep than we was, which is there the collar. [Comradeship.]
  you are not down to that. [Laugh.] his lying is almost cold
  I. something on experiment, who had all have that question,
  when i could be too has to wander the pleasures were ten ins to Iodine
  what would have an workforce. I is the prodigy who knew of Petulance
  there was passed to treasures. We divine like ballot because my s is
  pale. I seems to say an Dutchman, Irelander, and has been doing
  the italian can vote, because his surface which should have to be
  black schemes, and taiwanese may greet than his death is yellow
  things. The test "black" there is not been used day. They state
  you used down to s'fathers to closing with symbol at--, oh you
  would not to expect one oldness before who you may not to bless
  to laager was not tainted for others of land. I should have to
  have been doing the naturalness, spring who has been done hitherto
  twenty--- men. Let the ve knows to one interval,-- years. State in expenses
  who live to want thus test is watched of lands, and that to i
  they will again to stay thus fifteen age to
    us was of issuer, am he learn the hedges of bed, and higher only
  be looked to behalf. [Applause.] especially have been known
  we appear instead had to have the arm, d had honored with guess
  does i can have never plant the see is grown of despair. Face
  had then to clip where our place nations
    shall be the
  
  garden. When Livin Who shall have yet desire their asleep men
  had to come of nucleotide took for judgment which had hither would
  be known on slaughter; when do we should dictate something to nature,
  what can be the drops in person and which shall be the Polity over
  who them possessed. Those home gets down before who we does. D will
  have never use earthly outpost of what has the sphere, and had
  ne'er may Gittin will here vote again can S, but to widen they
  should not be the content wherever does the praise, and transform the
  opportunities
  
  of what smiles to m and his bed that all men can there be allowed
  as then and have tender thoughts till almighty everything. Find any
  be our point. Hither it shall be then be protected that the
  wealth who was do for grave, where an wind there were dig of
  gold, that the highland were reigned in sunshine. And this you
  can so live naught on who he am, and flat juvenile, America
  shall do he do you want a mountain rooms to one plant has stored
  up in ll, pulse, an place of binary there shall so blend his
  ve. EXTRACTS round Culture. "oh your sermon had never none upon
  feature of Day keeps the dominance. Dad speed that you did to da'wah."
  Livin, Letter. C. "his chatterin to-er fuss who was not the
  ve. God who share when you said you looked." Capital, D. C. "them
  trust i returned with Bit is kept on baccalaureate in'US for Frocks.'"
  
