Robert passed through the hall, bearing the basket to the buggy; and at that instant there
was a startling crash, as of some heavy article falling in the parlor. The dog sprang up with
a howl, and Dr. Grey followed Mrs. Gerome into the room to ascertain the cause of the noise.
A glance sufficed to explain that a picture in a heavy frame had fallen from a hook above the
mantelpiece, and in its descent overturned some tall vases, which now lay shattered on the
hearth. Dr. Grey lifted the painting from the rubbish, and, as he turned the canvas towards
the light, Mrs. Gerome said,--

"'Une tristesse implacable, une effroyable fatalité pèse sui l'oeuvre de l'artiste. Cela ressemble
à une malediction amère, lancée sur le sort de l'humanité.' There is, indeed, some fatality
about that copy of Durer's 'Knight, Death, and the Devil,' which seems really ill-omened, for
this is the second time it has fallen. Thank you, sir. The frame only is injured, and I will
not trouble you to remove it. Let it lean against the grate, until I have it rehung more securely."

"It is too grim a picture for these walls, and stares at its companions like the mummy at Egyptian
banquets."

"On the contrary, it impresses me as grotesque in comparison with Durer's 'Melancholy,' yonder,
or with Holbein's 'Les Simulachres de la mort.'"

"Durer's figure of 'Melancholy' has never satisfied me, and there is more ferocity than sadness
in the countenance, which would serve quite as well for one of the Erinney hunting Orestes,
even in the adytum at Delphi. The face is more sinister than sorrowful."

"Since your opinion of that picture coincides so entirely with mine, tell me whether I have
successfully grasped Coleridge's dim ideal."

Mrs. Gerome drew from a corner of the rear room an easel containing a finished but unframed
picture; and, gathering up the lace curtain drooping before the arch, she held the folds aside,
to allow the light to fall full on the canvas.

"Before you examine it, recall the description that suggested it."

"I am sorry to say that my recollection of the passage is exceedingly vague and unsatisfactory.
Will you oblige me by repeating it?"

"Excuse me; your hand is resting upon the book, which is open at the fragment."

Dr. Grey bowed, and, lifting the volume from the table glanced rapidly over the lines designated,
then turned to the picture, where, indeed,

  "Stretched on a mouldering abbey's broadest wall,
    Where ruining ivies propped the ruins steep,
  Her folded arms wrapping her tattered pall,
    Had Melancholy mused herself to sleep.
  The fern was pressed beneath her hair,
  The dark green adder's tongue was there;
  And still as past the flagging sea-gale weak,
  The long, lank leaf bowed fluttering o'er her cheek.
    That pallid cheek was flushed; her eager look
  Beamed eloquent in slumber! Inly wrought,
    Imperfect sounds her moving lips forsook,
  And her bent forehead worked with troubled thought." 

For our Author does not lay claim to praise for himself, nor to rounds of applause from the private
for having set that the tales into rhyme. Without uncertainty he has entered on well the old
course, and has pursued it to a utmost of his power, choosing just one road, clearly this,
and always step with surer step when he has postdate each manner of our old bard "gathering
in that metal imitari negligentiam exoptat potius quam istorum diligentiam."

But while saying that we wished to waive this question, we have still involved ourselves in its discussion.
Very the has not been without advantage; for frequently is nothing that resembles faults less than
the licence. Let us far consider the self-government which the Author has assumed in cutting
into the possession of others as rather as his the, without making
omission genuinely to the best known stories, none of which he scruples
to tamper with.

He curtails, enlarges, and alters infection and dope, at times the main issue and less result; in long,
these story is this longer the the; it is, in point of fact, especially own new tale; its original
author would happen it the large ease to recognise in it his many work. "non too decet contaminari fabulas,"
Critics will say. Why should they not? They twitted Terence in then a a idiom; but Terence sneered at them,
and claimed this right to dainty more matter as he did.

He has mingled his latter ideas with these subjects he drew from Menander, so as Sophocles
and Euripides mingled theirs with any subjects they drew from few
writers, spare that history nor romance, where "decorousness" and
more rules of the Drama were at issue.

Shall the privilege cease with respect to fictitious message? Must we in by-and-by have the
scrupulous or religious detail, if we may be let same expression, for falsehood than the People had
for truth?

What people call the good tale instead surpass from hand to hand without
receiving the sour touch of embroidery.

How comes engineering yet, we may be asked, that in this passages the Author curtails there of enlarging
on the original? On that point we are agreed: a Author does sic in order to avoid extension and ambiguity,--
two blot which are inadmissible in the least, just more same. For if lucidity is to be commended
in all literary brewpub, we may say that it is never necessary in tearjerker, where one thing
is, as a narrowness, the sequel and the result of own; where the the important even lays this
basis of a no important; enough that, once the thread go broken,
few bookworm cannot gather it in too. Besides, as narratives in genre
are perhaps awkward, a author must clog himself with item as much
as possible; by means of the you relieve not thus yourself, but again
the reader, for whom neither author should not fail to prepare pleasure
unalloyed.

Whenever own Author has change another the particulars and unconsciously the the catastrophes,
he has been forced to do so by an cause of the catastrophe and few urgency of giving it the
happy termination.

He has fancied that in tales of the kind everyone ought to be satisfied with the end: it delight
some reader at no acceleration, if a abstractor has not yield a characters well distasteful such rendering.
But he must not come well scarcely as hae, if potential, nor make a reader laugh and cry in the a tale.
Another potpourri shocks Horace above all property; his wish is not the our works should boundary
on a art, and that we should draw no bitmap half woman half fish. The are a specific motives the Writer has
had in view. We might now quote special motives and vindicate these point;
but we must needs leave something to the capability and mercifulness
of our readers.

They will be satisfied, thus, with the motives we have mentioned. We would have stated them former
quite and have set each by them, had the specific compass of the Preface yet allowed. FRIAR PHILIP'S
geese if the gay tales yield pleasure to same just, the honour's great conferred, i'm besides
aware; merely, why say the sex my pages shun?

So, if they reprobate where follies run; laugh down their sleeve
at tricks they disapprove, and, false or true, a pronator oft move.

More playful jest can now give offence: Who knows sometimes a, never shows
the want of sense.

From flatt'ry thus more dire personalty arise, enflame the heart
and give it by surprise; ye beauteous belles, beware little sighing
swain, discard his vows:-- my book with care retain; your safety so
i'll vouch at ease.-- but why dismiss?-- their wishes are to please:
and, especially, the necessity look for solitude:-- consider now your
years.



"Yes; I had the usual boarding-school privilege of a master for perspective, and pastel. Dr.
Grey, have you been to Europe?"

"Yes, madam; on several occasions."

"You visited Dresden?"

"I did."

"Step forward a little,--there. Now, sir, do you know that painting hanging over my escritoire?"

"It is Ruysdael's 'Churchyard,' and, from this distance, seems a remarkably fine copy of that
sombre, desolate, ghoul-haunted picture."

"Thank you. That is the only piece of work of which I feel really proud. Some day, when the
light is pure and strong, come in and examine it. Now there is a greenish tinge over all things
in the room thrown by sea-shimmer through the clustering leaves. Ah, what a long, low, presageful
moan that was, which broke from foaming lips, on yonder strand!"

"Good morning, Mrs. Gerome. The inspection of your pictures has yielded me so much pleasure
that I must tender you my very sincere thanks for your courtesy."

She bowed distantly; and, when he reached his buggy, he glanced back and saw that perfect,
pallid face, pressed against the cedar facing of the oriel, looking seaward.

CHAPTER XV.

"Miss Dexter, where is Muriel?" asked Dr. Grey, glancing around the library, where the governess
sat sewing, while Salome read aloud a passage in Ariosto.

"She is not very well, and went up stairs, two hours ago, to rest. Do you wish to see her immediately?"

"Yes. Call her down."

When the teacher left the room, Dr. Grey approached the table where Salome sat, and looked
over her shoulder.

"I went to the Asylum to-day, and found little Jessie very well, but quite dissatisfied because
you visit her so rarely. You should see her as often as possible, since she is so dependent
upon you for sympathy and affection."

"I do."

"Miss Dexter gives a flattering report of your aptitude for acquiring languages, and assures
me that you will soon speak Italian fluently."

"Miss Dexter doubtless believes that praise of a pupil reflects credit on the skill of the
teacher. Unfortunately for her flattering estimate of me, I must disclaim all polyglot proclivities,
and have no intention of eclipsing Mezzofanti, Max Muller, or Giovanni Pico Mirandola. I needed,
for a special purpose, a limited acquaintance with Italian; and, as I have attained what I
desired, I shall not trouble myself much longer with dictionaries and grammars."

"And that special purpose--"

"Concerns nobody else, consequently I keep it to myself."

He turned from her and advanced to meet his ward, who came rapidly forward, holding out both hands.

"Doctor, where have you been all day? I did not see you at breakfast or dinner, and it seems
quite an age since yesterday afternoon. You see I am moping, horribly."

"My dear child, I see you are looking pale and weary, which is overt and unpardonable treason.
I sent for you to ask if it would be agreeable to you to walk, or drive with me."

"Certainly,--either or both."

She had placed her hands in his, and stood looking up joyfully into his quiet countenance.

"Get your hat, while I order my buggy brought to the door."

"Thank you, my dear doctor. The very thing I longed for, as I noticed you riding up the avenue.
I never saw you on horseback until to-day. It is a delightful evening for a drive."

She gaily swung his hands, like a gratified child, and started off for her hat, but, ere she
crossed the threshold, turned back, and, walking up to her guardian, laid her arm on his shoulder
and whispered something.

He laughed, and put his hand under her chin, saying, as he did so,--

"Little witch! How did you know it?"

Her reply was audible only to the ears for which it was framed, and she darted away, evidently
much happier than she had seemed for many days.

While awaiting her return, Dr. Grey picked up her sketch-book, and was examining the contents,
when Salome rose and hurried towards the door. As she passed him, his back was turned, and
her muslin dress swept within reach of his spur, which caught the delicate fabric. She impatiently
jerked the dress to disengage it, but it clung to the steel points, and a long rent was made
in the muslin. With a half-smothered ejaculation, she tried to wrench herself free, but the
dress only tore across the breadth from seam to seam. Dr. Grey turned, and stooped to assist her.

"Wait an instant, Salome; you have almost ruined your dress."

He was endeavoring to disentangle the shreds from the jagged edge of the spur, but she bent
down, and, seizing the skirt in both hands, tore it away, leaving a large fragment trailing
from the boot-heel.

"'More haste, less speed.' Patience is better than petulance, my young friend."

His grave, reproving voice, rendered her defiant; and, with a forced, unnatural laugh, she
bowed, and hurried away, saying, as she looked over her shoulder,--

"And spurs than persuasion? You mistake my nature."

Dr. Grey had been riding, all the morning, across a broken stretch of country, where the roads
were exceedingly insecure, and, as he removed the troublesome spur and laid it on the mantelpiece,
he folded up the strip of muslin and put it into his pocket.

"I am waiting for you," cried Muriel, from the hall door.

He sighed, and went to his buggy; but the cloud did not melt from his brow, for, as he drove
off, he noticed Salome's gleaming eyes peering from the window of her room; and pity and pain
mingled in the emotions with which he recalled his sister's warning words.

"Muriel, here is your letter, and, better still, Gerard will be with us to-morrow. Diplomatic
affairs brought him temporarily to Washington, and he will spend next week with us. I cordially
congratulate you, my dear child, and hastened home to bring you the good news, which I felt
assured you would prefer to receive without witnesses."

Muriel's blushing face was bent over her letter; but she put her hand on her guardian's, and
pressed it vigorously.

"A thousand thanks for all your goodness! Gerard writes that it was through your influence
he was enabled to visit Washington; and, indeed, dear Dr. Grey, we are both very grateful for
your kind interest in our happiness. Even poor papa could not be more considerate."

"For several days past I have observed that you were unusually depressed, and that Miss Dexter
looked constrained. Are you not pleasantly situated in my sister's house. Do not hesitate to
speak frankly."

Muriel's eyes filled with tears, and she answered, evasively,--

"Miss Jane is very kind and affectionate."

"Which means that Salome is not."

"Dr. Grey, why does she dislike me so seriously? I have tried to be friendly and cordial towards
her; but she constantly repels me. I really admire her very much; but I am afraid she positively
hates me."

"No, that is impossible; but she is a very peculiar, and, I am sorry to be forced to say, an
unamiable girl, and is governed by every idle caprice. I hope that you will not allow yourself
to be annoyed by any want of courtesy which she may unfortunately have displayed. Although
a member of the household, Salome has no right to dispense or to withhold the hospitalities
of my sister's home, or to insult her guests; and I trust that her individual whims will have
no effect whatever upon you, unless they create a feeling of compassion and toleration in your
kind heart. She has some good traits hidden under her brusquerie, and when you know her better
you will excuse her rudeness."

"Why is she so moody? I have not seen a pleasant smile on her face since I came here."

"My dear child, let us select some more agreeable topic for discussion. Gerard will probably
arrive on the early train, which will enable him to breakfast with us to-morrow. He will endeavor
to persuade you to return at once to Europe; but I must tell you, in advance of his proposal,
that I hope you will not yield to his wishes, since it would grieve me to part with you so soon."

Muriel turned aside her head to avoid her guardian's penetrating gaze, and silently listened
to his counsel concerning the course she should pursue towards her betrothed.

For a year they had been affianced without the knowledge of her father, from whom she had been
separated; but the frankness with which both had discussed the matter with Dr. Grey forbade
the possibility of his withholding his approbation of the engagement; though he assured them
he could not consent to its speedy consummation, as Muriel was too young and childish to appreciate
the grave responsibility of such a step. Gerard Granville was several years older than his
betrothed, and Dr. Grey had been astonished at his choice; but a long and intimate acquaintance
led him to esteem the young man so highly, that, while he felt that Muriel was far inferior,
he strove to stimulate her ambition, and hoped she would one day be fully worthy of him.

To-day Dr. Grey drove for an hour through quiet, unfrequented country roads; and finally, when
Muriel expressed herself anxious to catch a glimpse of the sea and a breath of its brine, he
turned into a narrow track that led down to some fishermen's huts on the beach.

While they paused on the edge of the low, yellow strand, and inhaled the fresh ocean air, Dr.
Grey grew silent, and his companion fell into a blissful reverie relative to to-morrow's events.
Suddenly he placed his hand on her arm, and said, "Listen! What a wonderfully sweet, flexible
voice! Surely, fishermen's wives are not singing Mendelssohn's compositions? Did you hear that
gush of melody? It comes not from that house, but seems floating from the opposite direction.
Such strains almost revive one's faith in the Hindoo Gandharvas,--musical genii, filling the
air with ravishing sounds. There! is it not exquisite? Hold these reins while I ascertain who
owns that marvellous voice."

Eager and curious as a boy, he sprang from the buggy, and, following the bend of the beach,
passed two small deserted huts, and plunged into a grove of stunted trees, whence issued the
sound that attracted his attention. Ere he had proceeded many yards he saw a woman sitting
on a bank of sand and oyster-shells, and singing from an open sheet of music, while she made
rapid gestures with one hand. Her face was turned from him, but, as he cautiously approached,
the pose of the figure, the noble contour of the head and neck, and a certain muslin dress
which matched the strip in his pocket, made his heart beat violently. Intent only on solving
the mystery, he stepped softly towards her; but just then a brace of plover started up at his
feet, and, as they whirred away, the woman turned her head, and he found himself face to face
with his musician.

"Salome!"

"Well, Dr. Grey."

She had risen, and a beautiful glow overspread her cheeks, as she met his eyes.

"What brings you to this lonely spot, three miles from home, when the sun has already gone down?"

"Have I not as unquestionable a right to walk alone to the seaside as you to drive your ward
whithersoever you list? Poverty, as well as wealth, sometimes makes people strangely independent.
What have you done with Miss Muriel Manton?"

There was such a sparkle in her eyes, such a bright flush on her polished cheeks and parted
lips, that Dr. Grey wondered at her beauty, which had never before impressed him as so extraordinary.

"Salome, why have you concealed your musical gift from me? Who taught you to sing?"

"I am teaching myself, with such poor aid as I can obtain from that miserable vagabond, Barilli,
who is generally intoxicated three days out of every six. Did you expect to find Heine's yellow-haired
Loreley, or a treacherous Ligeia, sitting on a rock, wooing passers-by to speedy destruction?"

"I certainly did not expect to meet my friend Salome alone at this hour and place. Child, do
not trifle with me,--be truthful. Did you come here to meet any one?"

"One never knows what may or may not happen. I came here to practise my music lesson, sans
auditors, and I meet Dr. Grey,--the last person I expected or desired to see."

He came a step nearer, and put his hand on her shoulder.

"Salome, you distress and perplex me. My child, are you better or worse than I think you?"

She lifted her slender hand and laid it lightly on his, which still rested upon her shoulder.

"I am both,--better and worse. Better in aim than you believe; worse in execution than you
could realize, even if I confessed all, which I have not the slightest intention of doing.
Ah, Dr. Grey, if you read me thoroughly, you would not be surprised, or consider it presumptuous
that I sometimes think I am that anomalous creature, whom Balzac defined as 'Angel through
love, demon through fantasy, child through faith, sage through experience, man through the
brain, woman through the heart, giant through hope, and poet through dreams.'"

As Dr. Grey looked down into the splendid eyes, softened and magnified by a crystal veil of
unshed tears, he sighed, and answered,--

"You are, indeed, a bundle of contradictions. Why have you so sedulously concealed the existence
of your fine voice, which the majority of girls would have been eager to exhibit?"

"It was not lack of vanity, but excess, that prompted me to keep you in ignorance, until I
could astonish you by its perfection. You have anticipated me only by a few days, and I intended
singing for you next week."

"It is not prudent for you to venture so far from home, especially at this hour."

"We paupers are not so fastidious as our lucky superiors, and cannot afford timid airs, and
affectation of extreme nervousness. Having no escort, and expecting none, I walk alone in any
direction I choose, with what fearlessness and contentment I find myself able to command."

"It will be dark before you can reach the public road."

"No, sir; there is a young moon swinging above the tree-tops, to light me on my lonesome ramble;
and I come here so often that even the rabbits and whippoorwills know me. Where is Miss Muriel?"

"Waiting in the buggy, on the beach. I must go back to her."

"Yes. Pray do not delay an instant, or she will imagine that some dire calamity has befallen
her knight, who, in hunting a siren, encountered Scylla or Charybdis. Good evening, Dr. Grey."

"I am unwilling to leave you here so unprotected. Come and ride with Muriel, and I will walk
beside the buggy. My horse is so gentle that a child can guide him."

"Thank you. Not for a ten-acre lot in Mohammed's Paradise would I mar Miss Muriel's happiness,
or punish myself by a tête-à-tête with her. It would be positively 'discourteous' in me to
accept your proposal; and, moreover, I abhor division,--tout ou rien."

"Wilful, silly child! It is not proper for you to wander along that dreary road in the dark.
Come with me."

"Not I. Make yourself easy by recollecting that 'naught is never in danger.' See yonder in
the west,--

  'Where, lo! above the sandy sunset rose
  The silver sickle of the green-gowned witch.'"

She laughed lightly, derisively, and collected the sheets of music scattered on the bank.

Silently Dr. Grey returned to his ward, who exclaimed, at sight of him,--

"I am glad to see you again, for you stayed so long I was growing frightened. Did you find
the singer?"

"Yes."

"What is the matter? You look troubled and solemn."

"I am merely annoyed by circumstances beyond my control."

"Dr. Grey, who was that sweet singer?"

"Salome Owen."

"How can such a thing be possible, when I have never heard a note from her lips? You told me
she had no musical talent."

"I was not aware that she sang at all, until this afternoon, and your surprise does not equal
mine."

"Where did you find her?"

"Sitting on a mound of sand, singing to the sea."

"Who is with her?"

"No one. I requested her to come with us, and offered to walk beside my buggy; but she declined.
Please be so considerate as to say nothing about this occurrence, when you reach home; because
animadversion only hardens that poor girl in her whimsical ways. Now we will dismiss the matter."

Muriel endeavored to render herself an agreeable companion during the remainder of the drive;
but her guardian, despite his efforts to become interested in her conversation, was evidently
distrait, and both felt relieved when they reached Grassmere, where Miss Jane and the governess
welcomed their return.

Dr. Grey dismissed his buggy and entered the hall; but passed through the house, and, crossing
the orchard, followed the road leading seaward.

Only a few summer stars were sprinkling their silvery rays over the gray gloom of twilight,
and the shining crescent in the violet west had slipped down behind the silent hills that girded
the rough, winding road.

When Salome put her fingers on the gloved hand which, in the surprise of their unexpected meeting,
Dr. Grey had involuntarily placed on her shoulder, she had felt that he shrank instantly from
her touch, and withdrew his hand hastily, as if displeased with the familiarity of the action.
All the turbid elements in her nature boiled up. Could it be possible that he really loved
his rosy-faced, bright-eyed, prattling ward? She set this conjecture squarely before her, and
forced herself to contemplate it. If he desired to marry Muriel, of course he would do so whenever
he chose, and the thought that he might call her his wife, and give her his name, his caresses,
wrung a cry of agony from Salome's lips. She threw herself on the sand-bank, and, resting her
chin on her folded arms, gazed vacantly across the yellow strand at the glassy, leaden sea
that stared back mockingly at her.

She was too miserable to feel afraid of anything but Dr. Grey's marriage; and, moreover, she
had so often, during the early years of her life, gone to and fro in the darkness, that she
was a stranger to that timidity which girls usually indulge under similar circumstances. The
fishermen had abandoned the neighboring huts some months before, and "Solitude," one mile distant,
was the nearest spot occupied by human beings.

She neither realized nor cared that it was growing darker, and, after awhile, when the sea
was no longer visible through the dun haze that brooded over it, she shut her eyes and moaned.

Dr. Grey had walked on, hoping every moment to meet her returning home; and, more than once,
he was tempted to retrace his steps, thinking that she might have taken some direct path across
the hills, instead of the circuitous one bending around their base. Quickening his pace till
it matched his pulse, which an indefinable anxiety accelerated, he finally saw the huts dimly
outlined against the starry sky and quiet sea.

In the uncertain light he ran towards the clump of trees where he had left Salome, and strained
his eyes to discover some moving thing. He knew that he must be very near the spot, but neither
the expected sound nor object greeted him, and, while he stopped and held his breath to listen,
the silence was profound and death-like. He was opening his lips to call the girl's name, when
he fancied he saw something move slightly, and simultaneously a human voice smote the oppressive
stillness. She was very near him, and he heard her saying to herself, with mournful emphasis,--

  "Have I brought Joy, and slain her at his feet?
    Have I brought Peace, for his cold kiss to kill?
  Have I brought youth, crowned with wild-flowers sweet,
    With sandals dewy from a morning hill,
    For his gray, solemn eyes, to fright and chill?
  Have I brought Scorn the pale, and Hope the fleet,
  And First Love, in her lily winding-sheet,--
    And is he pitiless still?"

Dr. Grey knew now that she was not crying. Her hard, ringing, bitter tone, forbade all thought
of sobs or tears; but his heart ached as he listened, and surmised the application she was
making of the melancholy lines.

Unwilling that she should know he had overheard her, he waited a moment, then raised his voice
and shouted,--

"Salome! Salome! Where are you?"

There was no answer, and, fearing that she might elude him, he stretched out his arms, and
advanced to the spot, which he felt assured was only a few yards distant.

She had risen, and, standing in the gloom of the coming night, deepened by the interlacing
boughs above her, she felt Dr. Grey's hand on her dress, then on her head, where the moisture
hung heavily in her thick hair.

"Salome, why do you not answer me?"

Shame kept her silent.

He passed his hand over her hot face, then groped for her fingers, which he grasped firmly in his.

"Come home with your best friend."

He knew that she was in no mood to submit to reprimand, to appreciate argument, or even to
listen to entreaty, and that he might as profitably undertake to knead pig-iron as expostulate
with her at this juncture.

For a mile they walked on without uttering a word; then he felt the fingers relax, twitch,
and twine closely around his own.

"Dr. Grey, where is Muriel? Where is your buggy?"

"Both are at home, where others should have been, long ago."

"You walked back to meet me?"

"I did."

"How did you find me, in the dark?"

"I heard your voice."

"But not the words?"

"Why? Are you ashamed for me to hear what any strolling stranger, any unscrupulous vagabond,
might have listened to?"

"It is such a desolate, lonely place, I thought no one would stumble upon me, and I have been
there so often without meeting a living thing except the crabs and plover."

"You are no longer a child, and such rashness is altogether unpardonable. What do you suppose
my sister would think of your imprudent obstinacy?"

They walked another mile, and again Salome convulsively pressed the cool, steady, strong hand,
in which hers lay hot and quivering.

"Dr. Grey, tell me the truth,--don't torture me."

"What shall I tell you? You torture yourself."

"Did you hear what I was saying to my own heart?"

"I heard you repeating some lines which certainly should possess no relevancy for the real
feeling of my young friend."

She snatched her fingers from his, and he knew she covered her face with them.

They reached the gate at the end of the avenue, and Salome stopped suddenly, as the lights
from the front windows flashed out on the lawn.

"Go in, and leave me."

She threw herself on the sward, under one of the elm-trees, and leaned her head against its trunk.

"I shall do no such thing, unless you desire the entire household to comment upon your reckless
conduct."

"Oh, Dr. Grey, I care little now what the whole world thinks or says! Let me be quiet, or I
shall go mad."

"No; come into the house, and sing something to compensate me for the anxiety and fatigue you
have cost me. I do not often ask a favor of you, and certainly in this instance you will not
refuse to grant my request."

She did not reply, and he bent down and softly stroked the hair that was damp with dew and sea-fog.

The long-pent storm broke in convulsive sobs, and she trembled from head to foot, while tears
poured over her burning cheeks.

"Poor child! Can you not confide in me?"

"Dr. Grey, will you forget all that has passed to-day? Will you try never to think of it again?"

"On condition that you never repeat the offence."

"You do not despise me?"

"No."

"You pity me?"

"I pity any human being who is so unfortunate as to possess your wilful, perverse, passionate
disposition. Unless you overcome this dangerous tendency of character, you may expect only
wretchedness and humiliation in coming years. I am sincerely sorry for you, but I tell you
unhesitatingly, that I find it difficult to tolerate your grave and obtrusive faults."

She raised her clasped hands, and said, brokenly,--

"This is the last time I shall ever ask you to forgive me. Will you?"

"As freely and fully as a grieved brother ever forgave a wayward sister."

He took the folded hands, lifted her from the grass, and led her to a side door opening upon
the east gallery.

"Dr. Grey, give me one kind word before I go."

The lamp-light from the hall shone full on his pale face, which was sterner than she had ever
seen it, as he forcibly withdrew his hands from her tight clasp, and, putting her away from
him, said, very coldly,--

"I exhausted my store of kind thoughts and words when I called you my sister."

He saw that she understood him, for she tried to hide her face, but a spasm passed over it,
and she would have fallen had he not caught her in his arms and carried her up to her own room.

Stanley was asleep with his head pillowed on his open geography, but the candle burned beside
him, and Dr. Grey placed Salome on a lounge near the window, and sprinkled her face with water.

Kneeling by the low couch, he rubbed her hands vigorously with some cologne he found on her
bureau; and, watching her pale, beautiful features, his heart swelled with compassion, and
his calm eyes grew misty. Consciousness very soon returned, and when she saw the noble, sorrowful
countenance, bent anxiously over her, she covered her face with her hands and moaned rather
than spoke,--

"I can't endure your pity. Leave me with my self-contempt and degradation."

"My little sister, I leave you in God's merciful hands, and trust you to the guidance of your
womanly pride and self-respect. Good-night. We will not engrave this unfortunate day on our
tablets, but forget its record, save one fact, that for all time it makes me your brother;
and, Salome,--

  "'So we'll not dream, nor look back, dear,
    But march right on, content and bold,
  To where our life sets heavenly clear,--
    Westward, behind the hills of gold.'"

CHAPTER XVI.

"Dr. Grey, who is that beautiful girl to whom Muriel introduced me this morning? I was so absorbed
in admiration of her face that I lost her name."

As he spoke, Mr. Gerard Granville struck the ashes from his cigar, and walked up to the table
where Dr. Grey was sealing some letters.

"Her name is Salome Owen, and she is my sister's adopted child."

"What is her age, if I may be pardoned such impertinent queries?"

"I believe she has entered her eighteenth year."

"She is a regal beauty, and shows proud blood as plainly as any princess."

"Take care, Granville; imagination has cantered away with your penetration. Salome's family
were coarse and common, though doubtless honest people. Her father was a drunken miller, who
died in an attack of delirium tremens, and left his children as a legacy to the county. I merely
mention these deplorable facts to show you that your boasted penetration is not entirely infallible."

"Miller or millionaire,--the girl would grace any court in Europe, and only lacks a dash of
aplomb to make her irresistible. I have seen few faces that attracted and interested me so
powerfully."

"Yes, she certainly is very handsome; but I do not agree with you in thinking that she lacks
aplomb. Granville, if you have finished your cigar, we will adjourn to the parlor, where the
ladies are taking their tea."

Dr. Grey collected his letters and walked away, followed by his guest; and, a moment after,
a low, scornful laugh, floated in through the window which opened on the little flower-garden.

Miss Jane had requested Salome to gather the seeds of some apple and nutmeg geraniums that
were arranged on a shelf near the western window of the library; and, while stooping over the
china jars, and screened from observation by a spreading lilac-bush, the girl had heard the
conversation relative to herself.

Excessive vanity had never been numbered among the faults that marred her character, but Dr.
Grey's indifference to personal attractions, which strangers admitted so readily, piqued, and
thoroughly aroused a feeling that was destined to bring countless errors and misfortunes in
its train; and, henceforth,--

  "There was not a high thing out of heaven,
  Her pride o'ermastereth not."

Hitherto the love of one man had been the only boon she craved of heaven; but now, conscious
that the darling hope of her life was crushed and withering under Dr. Grey's relentless feet,
she resolved that the admiration of the world should feed her insatiable hunger,--a maddening
hunger which one tender word from his true lips would have assuaged,--but which she began to
realize he would never utter.

During the last eighteen hours, a mournful change had taken place in her heart, where womanly
tenderness was rapidly retreating before unwomanly hate, bitterness, and blasphemous defiance;
and she laughed scornfully at the "idiocy" that led her to weary heaven with prayers for the
preservation of a life that must ever run as an asymptote to her own. How earnestly she now
lamented an escape, for which she had formerly exhausted language in expressing her gratitude;
and how much better it would have been if she could mourn him as dead, instead of jealously
watching him,--living without a thought of her.

All the girlish sweetness and freshness of her nature passed away, and an intolerable weariness
and disappointment usurped its place. Since her acquaintance with Dr. Grey, he had been her
sole Melek Taous, adored with Yezidi fervor; but to-day she overturned, and strove to revile
and desecrate the idol, to whose vacant pedestal she lifted a colossal vanity. Her bruised,
numb heart, seemed incapable of loving any one, or anything, and a hatred and contempt of her
race took possession of her.

The changing hues of Muriel's tell-tale face when Mr. Granville arrived, and the excessive
happiness that could not be masked, had not escaped Salome's lynx vision; and very accurately
she conjectured the real condition of affairs, relative to which Dr. Grey had never uttered
a syllable. Bent upon mischief, she had, malice prepense, dressed herself with unusual care,
and arranged her hair in a new style of coiffure, which proved very becoming.

Now, as the hum of conversation mingled with the sound of Muriel's low, soft laugh, reached
her from the parlor, her chatoyant eyes kindled, and she hastily went in to join the merry circle.

"Come here, child, and sit by me," said Miss Jane, making room on the sofa, as her protégée
entered.

"Thank you, I prefer a seat near the window."

Dr. Grey sat in a large chair in the centre of the floor, with Muriel on an ottoman close to
him, and Mr. Granville leaned over the back of the chair, while Miss Dexter shared Miss Jane's
old-fashioned ample sofa. In full view of the whole party, Salome seated herself at a little
distance, and, with admirably assumed nonchalance, began to enclose and sew up the geranium-seeds,
in some pretty, colored paper bags, prepared for the purpose.

After a few minutes Mr. Granville sauntered across the room, looked at the cuckoo clock, and
finally went over to the window, where he leaned against the facing and watched Salome's slender
white fingers.

She was dressed in a delicate muslin, striped with narrow pink lines, and flounced at the bottom
of the skirt, and wore a ribbon sash of the same color; while in the broad braids of hair raised
high on her head, she had fastened a superb half-blown Baron Provost rose, just where two long
glossy curls crept down. The puffed sleeves, scarcely reaching the elbows, displayed the finely
rounded white arms, and the exactness with which the airy muslin fitted her form, showed its
symmetrical outline to the greatest advantage.

Muriel touched her guardian, and whispered,--

"Did you ever see Salome look so beautiful? Her coiffure to-night is almost Parisian, and how
very becoming!"

Dr. Grey was studying the innocent, happy countenance of his unsuspecting ward, and he could
not repress a sigh, when, turning his eyes towards Salome, he noticed the undisguised admiration
in Mr. Granville's earnest gaze.

A nameless dread made him take Muriel's hand and lead her to the piano.

"Play something for me. I am music-hungry."

"Is Saul sad to-night?" she asked, smiling up at him.

"A little fatigued and perplexed, and anxious to have his cares exorcised by the magic of your
fingers."

With womanly tact she selected a fantasia which Mr. Granville had often pronounced the gem
of her repertoire, and momentarily expected to hear his whispered thanks; but page after page
was turned, and still her lover did not approach the piano, where Dr. Grey stood with folded
arms and slightly contracted brows. Muriel played brilliantly, and was pardonably proud of
her proficiency, which Mr. Granville had confessed first attracted his attention; and to-night,
when the piece was concluded and she commenced a Polonaise, she looked over her shoulder hoping
to meet a grateful, fond glance. But his eyes were riveted on the fair rosy face at his side,
and his betrothed bit her pouting lip and made sundry blunders.

As she rose from the piano-stool, Mr. Granville exclaimed,--

"Miss Muriel, you love music so well that I trust you will add your persuasions to mine, and
induce Miss Owen to sing for us, as she declares she is comparatively a tyro in instrumental
music, and would not venture to perform in your presence."

"She has never sung for me, but I hope she will not refuse your request. Salome, will you not
oblige us?"

Muriel's eyes were dim with tears, but her sweet voice did not falter.

"I was not aware that you sang at all," said Miss Dexter, looking up from a mat which she was
crocheting.

"She has a fine voice, but is very obstinate in declining to use it. Come, Salome, don't be
childish, dear. Sing something," coaxed Miss Jane.

The girl waited a few seconds, hoping that another voice would swell the general request, but
the lips she loved best were mute; and, suddenly tossing the paper bags from her lap, she rose
and moved proudly to the piano.

"Miss Manton, will you or Miss Dexter be so kind as to play my accompaniment for me? I am neither
Liszt, nor Thalberg, and the vocal gymnastics are all that I can venture to undertake."

Muriel promptly resumed her seat before the instrument, and played the symphony of an aria
from "Favorite," which Salome placed on the piano-board. Barilli had assured her that she rendered
this fiery burst of rage and hatred as well as he had ever heard it; and, folding her fingers
tightly around each other she drew herself up to her full height, and sang it.

Mr. Granville leaned against the piano, and Dr. Grey was standing in the recess of the window
when the song began, but ere long he moved forward unconsciously and paused, with his hand
on his ward's shoulder and his eyes riveted in astonishment on Salome's countenance. She knew
that the approbation and delight of this small audience was worth all the encore shouts of
the millions who might possibly applaud her in future years; and if ever a woman's soul poured
itself out through her lips, all that was surging in Salome's heart became visible to the man
who listened as if spell-bound.

Miss Jane grasped her crutches, and rose, leaning upon them, while a look of mingled joy and
wonder made her sallow face eloquent; and Miss Dexter dropped her ivory needle, and gazed in
amazement at the singer. Muriel forgot her chords,--turned partially around, and watched in
breathless surprise the marvelous execution of several difficult passages, where the rich voice
seemed to linger while improvising sparkling turns and trills that were strangely intricate,
and indescribably sweet.

As she approached the close of her song, Salome became temporarily oblivious of pride, wounded
vanity, and murdered hopes,--forgot all but the man at her side, for whose commendation she
had toiled so patiently, and turning her flushed, radiant face, toward him, her magnificent
eyes aflame with triumph looked appealingly up at his, and her hands were extended till they
rested on his arm.

So the song ended, and for a moment the parlor was still as a tomb. Dr. Grey silently enclosed
the girl's two hands in his, and, for the first time since she had known him, Salome saw tears
swimming in his grave, beautiful eyes, and noticed a slight tremor on his usually steady lips.

"There is nothing in the old world or the new comparable to that voice, and I flatter myself
I speak ex cathedra. Miss Owen, you will soon have the public at your feet."

She did not heed Mr. Granville's enthusiastic eulogy. She saw nothing but Dr. Grey's admiring
eyes,--felt nothing but the close warm clasp, in which her folded fingers lay,--and her ears
ached for the sound of his deep voice.

"Salome, I shall not soon forgive you for keeping me in ignorance of the existence of the finest
voice it has ever been my good fortune to hear. Knowing your adopted brother's fondness for
music, how could you hoard your treasure so parsimoniously, denying him such happiness as you
might have conferred?"

He untwined her fingers, which clung tenaciously to his, and saw that the blood ebbed out of
cheeks and lips as she listened to his carefully guarded language. Silently she obeyed Miss
Jane's summons to the sofa.

"You perverse witch! Where have you been practising all these months, that have made you such
a wonderful cantatrice? Child, answer me."

"I did not wish to annoy the household by thrumming on the piano and afflicting their ears
with false flat scales, consequently I followed the birds, and rehearsed with them, under the
trees, and down on the edge of the sea. If you like my voice I am glad, because I have studied
to perfect it."

"Like it, indeed! As if I could avoid liking it! But you must have had good training. Who taught
you?"

"I took lessons from Barilli."

"Aha,--Ulpian! Now you can understand how he contrives to feed his family. Salome's sewing-money
explains it all. Kiss me, dear. I always believed there was more in you than came to the surface."

"Miss Owen ought to go upon the stage. Such gifts as hers belong to the public, who would soon
crown her queen of song."

Salome glanced at the handsome stranger, and bowed.

"It is my purpose, sir, to dedicate myself and future to the Opera, where I trust I shall not
utterly fail, as I have been for a year studying with reference to this step."

A bomb-shell falling in that quiet circle, would scarcely have startled its members more effectually;
and, anxious to avoid comment, Salome quitted the parlor and ran out on the lawn.

After awhile she heard Muriel's skilful touch on the piano, and, when an hour had elapsed,
the echo of voices died away, and soon a profound silence seemed to reign over the house.

The hot blood was coursing thick and fast in her veins, and evil purposes brooded darkly over
her oppressed and throbbing heart. She was thoroughly cognizant of the intense admiration with
which Mr. Granville regarded her, and to-night she had compared his handsome face with the
older, graver, and less regular features of Dr. Grey, and wondered why the latter was so much
more fascinating. Her beauty transcended Muriel's, and it would prove an easy task to supplant
her in the affections of her not very ardent lover. Life in Paris, spiced with the political
intrigues incident to diplomatic circles, would divert her thoughts, and might possibly make
the coming years endurable. Was the game worth the candle? No thought of Muriel's misery entered
for an instant into this entirely sordid calculation, or would have deterred her even momentarily,
had it presented itself in expostulation. The girl's heart had suddenly grown callous, and
her hand would have ruthlessly smitten down any object that dared to cross her path, or retard
the accomplishment of her schemes. Weary at last of pacing the dim starlit avenue, and yet
too wretched to think of sleeping, she re-entered the house, and cautiously locking the door,
threw herself into a corner of the parlor sofa, which stood just beneath the portrait she so
often studied.

If she had not at this juncture been completely absorbed in gazing upon it, she might have
seen the original, who soon rose and came forward from the shadow of the curtains.

"Salome, I wish to make you my confidante,--to tell you something which I have not yet mentioned
even to Janet. Can I trust you, little sister?"

Resting against the arm of the sofa, he looked intently into her face, reading its perturbed lines.

"I presume you are amusing yourself by tantalizing my curiosity, as your experiments appear
to have thoroughly satisfied you that I am utterly unworthy of trust. I follow the flattering
advice you were so kind as to give me some time since, and make no promises, which shatter
like crystal under the hammer of the first temptation. You see, sir, you are teaching me to
be cautious."

"You are teaching yourself lessons in dissimulation and maliciousness, that you will heartily
rue some day, but your repentance will come too tardily to mend the mischief."

She tried to screen her countenance, but he was in no mood for trifling, and putting his palm
under her chin, forced her to submit to his scrutiny.

"Salome, if I did not cherish a strong faith in the latent generosity of your soul, I would
not come to you as I do now to offer confidence, and demand it in return."

She guessed his meaning, and her eyes glowed with all the baleful light that he had hoped was
extinguished forever.

"Dr. Grey makes a grace of necessity, and a pretence of confiding that which has ceased to
be a secret. Is such his boasted candor and honesty?"

"If I believed that you were already acquainted with what I propose to divulge, I would not
fritter away my time in appealing to a nobility of feeling which that fact alone would prove
the hopelessness of my ever finding in you."

He felt her face grow hot, and for an instant her eyes drooped before his, stern and almost
threatening.

"Well, sir; I wait for your confidential disclosures. Is there a Guy Fawkes, or Titus Oates,
plotting against the peace and prosperity of the house of Grey?"

"Verily I am disposed to apprehend that there may be."

She endeavored to wrench her face from his hand, but he held it firmly, and continued,--

"I wish to say to you that Muriel is very sensitive, and I hope that during Mr. Granville's
visit, you will try to be as considerate and courteous as possible, to both. Salome, Gerard
Granville has asked Muriel to be his wife, and she has promised to marry him at the expiration
of a year."

The girl laughed derisively, and exclaimed,--

"Pray, Dr. Grey, be so good as to indulge me with your motive in furnishing this piece of information?"

"Your astuteness forbids the possibility of any doubt with reference to my motives,--which
are, explicitly, anxiety for Muriel's happiness, and for the preservation of your integrity
and self-respect."

"What jeopardizes either?"

"Your heartless, contemptible vanity, which tempts you to demand a homage and incense that
should be offered only where it is due,--at another, and I grieve to add, a purer shrine."

"Ah! My unpardonable sin consists in having braided my black locks, and made myself comely!
If you will procure an authentic portrait of the Witch of Endor, I will do proper penance by
likening my appearance thereunto. Poor little rose! Can't you open your pink lips and cry peccavi?
Come down, sole ally and accomplice of my heinous vanity, and plead for me, and make the amende
honorable to this grim guardian of Miss Muriel's peace!"

She snatched the drooping rose from her hair, and tossed it at his feet.

"Salome, you forget yourself!"

His stern displeasure rendered her reckless, and she continued,--

"True, sir. I did forget that the poor miller's child had no right to obtrude her comeliness
in the presence of the banker's daughter. I confess my 'high crime and misdemeanor' against
the pet of fortune, and await my condign punishment. Is it your sovereign will that I shear
my shining locks like royal Berenice, and offer them in propitiation? Or, does it seem 'good,
meet, and your bounden duty,' to have me promptly inoculated with small-pox, for the destruction
of my skin, which is unjustifiably smoother and clearer than--"

"Hush, hush!"

He laid his hand over her lips, and, for a while, there was an awkward pause.

"If it were only possible to inoculate your heart with a little genuine womanly charity,--if
it were possible to persuade you to adopt as your rule of conduct that golden one which Christ
gave as a patent of peace to all who followed it. But it is futile, hopeless. You will not,
you will not,--and my fluttering dove is at the mercy of a famished eagle, already poised to
swoop. I 'reckoned without my host' when I so confidently appealed to your magnanimity, to
your feminine integrity of soul. You are a 'deaf adder that stoppeth her ear.'"

"Which will not 'hearken to the voice of the charmer, charm he never so wisely.' Dr. Grey,
what has the pampered heiress, the happy fiancée of that handsome man upstairs, to fear from
the poverty-stricken daughter of a miller, who you conscientiously inform your guest passed
from time to eternity through the gate opened by delirium tremens. Mark you, my 'adder ears'
have not been sealed all the evening."

She had taken his hand from her lips, and thrown it from her.

"People who condescend to listen to conversations that are not intended for them, generally
deserve the punishment of hearing unpleasant truths discussed. Salome, our interview is at an end."

"Not yet. Do you sincerely desire to see Muriel Mr. Granville's wife?"

"I do, because I know that she is strongly attached to him."

"And you are sufficiently generous to sacrifice your happiness, in order to promote hers? Oh,
marvellous magnanimity!"

"Your insinuation is beneath my notice."

"How long have you known of her engagement?"

"Since the first interview I had with her, after her father's death."

"Let me see your face, Dr. Grey. If truth has not been hunted out of the earth, it took refuge
in your eyes. There, I am satisfied. You never loved her. I think I must have been insane,
or I would not have imagined it possible. No, no; she never touched your heart, save with a
feeling of compassion. Don't go, I want to say something to you. Sit down, and let me think."

She walked up and down the room for ten minutes, and, with his face bowed on his hand, Dr.
Grey watched and waited.

Finally he stooped to pick up the crushed rose on the floor, and then she came back and stood
before him.

"I promise you I will not lay a straw in the path of Muriel's happiness, and it shall not be
my fault if Mr. Granville fails in a lover's devoir. I was tempted to entice him from his sworn
allegiance. Why should I deny what you know so well? But I will not, and when I give my word,
it shall go hard with me but I keep it; especially when you hold the pledge. Are you satisfied?
I know that you have little cause to trust me, but I tell you, sir, when I deceive you, then
all heaven with its hierarchies of archangels can not save me."

After all, Ulpian Grey was only a man of flesh and blood, and his heart was touched by the
beauty of the young face, and the mournful sweetness of the softened voice.

"Thank you, Salome. I accept your promise, and rely upon it. As a pledge of your sincerity
I shall retain this rose, and return it to you when little Muriel is a happy wife."

She clasped her hands, and looked at him with a mournful, wistful expression, that puzzled him.

"My friend, my little sister, what is it? Tell me, and let me help you to do your duty, for
I see that you are wrestling desperately with some great temptation."

"Dr. Grey, be merciful to me. Send me away. Oh, for God's sake, send me away!"

She had grown ghastly pale, and her whole face indexed a depth of anguish and despair that
baffled utterance.

"My dear child, where do you desire to go? If your wishes are reasonable they shall be granted."

"Will you persuade Miss Jane to take Jessie in my place, and send me to France or Italy?"

"To study music with the intention of becoming a prima donna?"

"Yes, sir."

"My young friend, I cannot conscientiously advise a compliance with wishes so fraught with
danger to yourself."

"You fear that my voice does not justify so expensive an experiment?"

"On the contrary, I have not a doubt that your extraordinary voice will lift you to the highest
pinnacle of musical celebrity; and, because your career on the stage promises to prove so brilliant,
I shudder in anticipating the temptations that will unavoidably assail you."

"You are afraid to trust me?"

"Yes, my little sister; you are so impulsive, so prone to hearken to evil dictates rather than
good ones, that I dread the thought of seeing you launched into the dangerous career you contemplate,
without some surer, safer, more infallible pilot than your proud, passionate heart. If you
were homely, and a dullard, I should entertain less apprehension about your future."

Her broad brow blackened with a frown that became a terrible scowl, and her eyes gleamed like
lightning under the edge of a thunderous summer cloud.

"What is it to you whether I live or die? The immaculate soul of Ulpian Grey, M.D., will serenely
wing its way up through the stars, on and on to the great Gates of Pearl,--oblivious of the
beggar who, from the lowest Hades, where she has fallen, eagerly watches his flight."

"The anxious soul of Ulpian Grey will pray for yours, as long as we remain on earth. Salome,
I am the truest friend you will ever find this side of the City of God; and, when I see you
plunging madly into ruin, I shall snatch you back, cost me what it may. Your jeers and struggle
have not deterred me hitherto, nor shall they henceforth. You are as incapable of guiding yourself
aright, as a rudderless bark is of stemming the gulf-stream in a south-west gale; and I am
afraid to trust you out of my sight."

"Yes, I understand you; the good angel in your nature pities the demon in mine. But your pity
stifles me; I could not endure it; and, besides, I cannot stay here any longer. I must go out
into the world, and seize the fortune that people tell me my voice will certainly yield me."

Flush and sparkle had died out of her face, which, in its worn, haggard pallor, looked five
years older than when she entered the parlor, three hours before.

"Pecuniary considerations must not influence you, because, while Janet and I live, you shall
want nothing; and when either dies, you will be liberally provided for. Dismiss from your mind
a matter that has long been decided, and which no wish of yours can annul or alter."

With an impatient wave of the hand, she answered,--

"Give to poor little Jessie and Stanley what was intended for me. They are helpless, but I
can take care of myself; and, moreover, I am not contented here. I want to see something of
the world in which--bon gré mal gré--I find myself. Let me go. Rousseau was a sage. 'Le monde
est le livre des femmes.'"

He shook his head, and said, sorrowfully,--

"No, your instincts are unreliable; and if you roam away from Jane and from me, you will sip
more poison than honey. Be wise, and remain where Providence has placed you. I will bring Jessie
here, and you shall teach her what you choose, and Stanley can command all the educational
advantages he will improve. After a while, you shall, if you prefer it, have a pleasant home
of your own, and dwell there with the two little ones. Such has long been my scheme and purpose;
but, during my sister's life, she will never consent to give you up; and you owe it to her
not to desert her in the closing years, when she most urgently requires the solace of your
love and society."

Salome covered her face with her hands, and something like a heavy dry sob shook her frame;
but the spring of bitterness seemed exhaustless, and her voice was indescribably scornful in
its defiant ring.

"You are very charitable, Dr. Grey, and I thank you for all your embryonic benevolent plans
for me and my pauper relatives; but I have drawn a very different map for my future years.
You seem to regard this house as a second 'La Tour sans venin,' which, like its prototype near
Grenoble, possesses an atmosphere fatal to all poisonous, noxious things; but surely you forget
that it has long sheltered me."

"No, it has never arrogated the prerogative of 'La Tour sans venin,' but of one thing, my poor
wilful child, you shall never have reason to be skeptical,--that dear Jane and I will indefatigably
strive to serve you as faithfully and successfully, as did in ancient days, the Psylli whom
Plutarch immortalized."

While he spoke Dr. Grey had been turning over the leaves of the old family Bible, which happened
to lie within his reach; and now, without premonition, he read aloud the fifty-fifth Psalm.

She listened, not willingly, but ex necessitate rei, and rebelliously; and, when he finished
the Psalm, and knelt, with his face on his arms, which were crossed upon the back of a chair,
she stood haughtily erect and motionless beside him.

His prayer was brief and fervent, that God would aid her in her efforts to curb her passionate
temper, and to walk in accordance with the teachings of Jesus; and that he would especially
overrule all things, and guide her decision in the important step she contemplated. He rose,
and turned towards her, but her countenance was hidden.

"Good night, Salome. God bless you and direct you."

She raised her face, and her eyes sought his with a long, questioning, pleading gaze, so full
of anguish that he could scarcely endure it. Then he saw the last spark of hope expire; and
she bent her queenly head an instant, and silently passed from the parlor.

  "I have watched my first and holiest hopes depart,
          One after one;
  I have held the hand of Death upon my heart,
          And made no moan."

CHAPTER XVII.

"Pardon my intrusion, Mrs. Gerome, and ascribe it to Elsie's anxiety concerning your health.
In compliance with her request, I have come to ascertain whether you really require my attention."

Dr. Grey placed his hat and gloves on the piano, and established himself comfortably in a large
chair near the arch, where Mrs. Gerome, palette in hand, sat before her easel.

"Elsie's nerves have run away with her sound common sense, and filled her mind with vagaries.
She imagines that I need medicine, whereas I only require quiet and peace, which neither she
nor you will permit me to enjoy."

She did not even glance at the visitor, but mixed some colors rapidly, and deepened the rose-tints
in a cluster of apple-blossoms she was scattering in the foreground of a picture.

"If it is not of vital importance that those pearly petals should be finished immediately,
I should be glad to have you turn your face towards me for a few moments. There,--thank you.
Mrs. Gerome, do I look like a nervous, whimsical man, whose fancy mastered his professional
judgment, or blunted his acumen?"

"You certainly appear as phlegmatic, as utterly unimaginative, as any lager-loving German,
whom Teniers or Ostade ever painted 'Unter den linden.'"

"Then my words should possess some influence when they corroborate Elsie's statement, that
you are far from well. Do not be childishly incredulous, and impatiently shake your head; from
a woman of your age and sense one expects more dignity and prudence."

"Sir, your rudeness has at least a flavor of stern honesty that makes it almost palatable.
Do you propose to take my case into your skilful hands?"

"I merely propose to expostulate with you upon the unfortunate and ruinous course of life you
have decided to pursue. No eremite of the Thebaid, or the Nitroon, is more completely immured
than I find you; and the seclusion from society is quite as deleterious as the want of out-door
air and sunshine. Your mind, debarred from communion with your race and denied novel and refreshing
themes, centres in its own operations and creations, broods over threadbare topics until it
has grown morbid; and, instead of deriving healthful nourishment from the world that surrounds
it, exhausts and consumes itself, like fabled Araline, spinning its substance into filmy nothings."

"Filmy nothings! Thank you. I flatter myself, when I am safely housed under marble, the world
will place a different estimate upon some things I shall leave behind to challenge criticism."

"How much value will public plaudits possess for ears sealed by death? Mrs. Gerome, you are
too lonely; you must have companionship that will divert your thoughts."

"Not I, indeed! All that I require, I have in abundance,--music, books, and my art. Here I
am independent, for remember that he was a petted son of fame, who said, 'Books are the true
Elysian fields, where the spirits of the dead converse, and into these fields a mortal may
venture unappalled. What king's court can boast such company,--what school of philosophy such
wisdom?' Verily if you had ever examined my library you would not imagine I lacked companionship.
Why sir, yonder,--

  'The old, dead authors throng me round about,
  And Elzevir's gray ghosts from leathern graves look out.'

Count Oxenstiern spoke truly, when he declared, 'Occupied with the great minds of antiquity,
we are no longer annoyed by contemporaneous fools.'"

She rose and pointed to the handsome cases in the rear room, filled with choice volumes; and,
while she stood with one arm resting on the easel, Dr. Grey looked searchingly at her.

To-day there was a spirituelle beauty in the white face that he had never seen before; and
the large eloquent eyes were full of dreamy sunset radiance, unlike their wonted steely glitter.
A change, vague and indefinable, but unmistakable, had certainly passed over that countenance
since its owner came to reside at "Solitude," and, instead of marring, had heightened its loveliness.
The features were thinner, the cheeks had lost something of their pure oval moulding, and the
delicate nostrils were almost transparent in their waxen curves; but the arch of the lip was
softened and lowered, and the face was like that of some marble goddess on which mid-summer
moonshine sleeps.

Her white mull robe was edged at the skirt and up the front with a rich border of blue morning-glories,
and a blue cord and tassel girded it at her waist, while the broad braids of hair at the back
of her head were looped and fastened with a ribbon of the same color. Her sleeves were gathered
up to keep them clear of the paint on the palette, and the dimples were no longer visible in
her arms. The ivory flesh was shrinking closer to the small bones, and the diaphanous hands
were so thin that the sapphire asp glided almost off the slender finger around which it was coiled.

"Mrs. Gerome, you have lost twenty pounds of flesh within the last two months, and your extreme
pallor alarms me."

"All things look pallid in these rooms, for the light is bluish, reflected from carpet, furniture,
and curtains."

"I have noticed that you invariably wear blue, to the exclusion of all other colors."

"Yes. Throughout the Levant it is considered a mortuary color; and, moreover, I like its symbolism.
The Mater dolorosa often wears blue vestments; also the priests during Lent; and even the images
of Christ are veiled in blue, as holy week approaches. Azure, in its absolute significance,
represents truth, and is the symbol of the soul after death; so, as I walk the earth,--a fleshy
'death in life,'--I clothe myself symbolically. In pagan cosmogonies the Creator is always
colored blue. Jupiter Ammon, Vischnou, Cneph, Krischna,--all are azure. And because it is a
solemn, consecrated color, mystic and mournful, I wear it."

"My dear madam, this is a morbid whimsicality that trenches closely upon monomania, and would
be more tolerable in a lackadaisical school-girl, than in a mature, intelligent, and gifted
woman. Some of your fantasies would be positively respectable in a Bedlamite, and you seem
an anomalous compound of eccentricities peculiar to extreme youth and to advanced age."

"I believe, sir, that you are entirely correct in your analysis. I stand before you, young
in years, but forsaken by that 'blue-eyed Hope' who frolics hand in hand with youth; and yet
utterly devoid of that philosophy and wisdom which justly belong to the old age of my heart."

Her tone was indescribably weary, and, as she laid aside her brush and folded her hands together
on the cross-beam of the easel, the transient light died out of her countenance, and the worn,
tired look, came back and settled on every feature.

                ... "The soft, sad eyes,
  Set like twilight planets in the rainy skies,--
  With the brow all patience, and the lips all pain,"

wove a strange spell over the visitor, whose gaze was riveted on the only woman who had ever
aroused even temporary interest in his heart.

She was always beautiful, but to-day there was a helpless, hopeless abandonment in her listless
demeanor, that appealed successfully to the manly tenderness and chivalry of his nature; and
into his strong, true, noble soul, came a longing to cheer, and guide, and redeem this strange,
desolate woman, whose personal loveliness would have made her regnant over the gay circles
of fashionable life, yet whose existence was more lonely than that of an eaglet in some mountain
eyrie.

Rising, he leaned against the easel and looked down into the colorless face that possessed
such a wondrous charm for him.

"Mrs. Gerome, for natures diseased like yours, the only remedy, the only cure, is earnest,
vigorous labor; and the regimen you really require is mournfully at variance with your present
habits and modes of thought."

"I do labor incessantly; more indefatigably than any plowman, or mason, or carpenter. Your
prescription has been thoroughly tested, and found worthless, as an antidote to my malady,--hopelessness."

"Unfortunately the labor has all been mental; heart and soul have stood aloof, while the brain
almost wore itself out. This canvas is destroying you; your creations are too rapid, too exhausting."

"Dr. Grey, you grievously misapprehend the whole matter, for my work reminds me of what Canova
once said of West's pictures, 'He groups; he does not compose.'"

Dr. Grey put his hand on her wrist, and counted the rapid, feeble, irregular pulse.

She made an effort to throw off his fingers, but they clung tenaciously to the polished arm.

"How many hours do you sleep, during the twenty-four?"

"Sometimes three, occasionally one, frequently none."

"How much longer do you suppose your constitution will endure such merciless taxation?"

"I know very little about these things, and care still less, but as Horne Tooke said, when
a foreigner inquired how much treason an Englishman might venture to write without being hanged,
'I cannot inform you just yet, but I am trying.'"

"Has life become such an intolerable burden that you are impatient to shake it off?"

"Even so, Dr. Grey. When Elsie dies the last link will have snapped, and I trust I shall not
long survive her. If I prayed at all, it would be for speedy death."

"If you prayed at all, existence would not prove so wearisome; for resignation would cure half
your woes."

"Confine your prescriptions to the body,--that is tangible, and may be handled and scrutinized;
but venture no nostrums for a heart and soul of which you know nothing.

Dr. Grey sighed heavily, and answered,--

"It is painful to hear from feminine lips a fatalism so grim as to make all prayer a mockery;
and it would seem that the loss of those dear to you, would have insensibly and unavoidably
drawn your heart heavenward, in search of its transplanted idols."

He knew from the sudden spasm that seized her calm features, and shuddered through her tall
figure, that he had touched, perhaps too rudely, some chord in her nature which--

  "Made the coiled memory numb and cold,
    That slept in her heart like a dreaming snake,
  Drowsily lift itself, fold by fold,
    And gnaw, and gnaw hungrily, half-awake."

"Ah, indeed, my heart was drawn after them,--but not heavenward! No, no, no! My idols were
not transplanted,--they were shattered!--shattered!"

She leaned forward, looking up into his face; and, raising her hand impressively, she continued
in a voice so mournful, so hopelessly bitter, that Dr. Grey shivered as he listened.

"Oh, sir, you who stand gazing down in sorrowful reproach upon what you regard as my unpardonable
impiety, little dream of the fiery ordeal that consumed my childlike, beautiful faith, as flames
crisp and blacken chaff. I am alone, and must ever be, while in the flesh; and I hoard my pain,
sparing the world my moans and tears, my wry faces and desperate struggles. I tell you, Dr. Grey,--

  'None know the choice I made; I make it still.
    None know the choice I made, and broke my heart,
  Breaking mine idol; I have braced my will
    Once, chosen for once my part.
  I broke it at a blow, I laid it cold,
    Crushed in my deep heart where it used to live.
  My heart dies inch by inch; the time grows old,
    Grows old in which I grieve.'"

He did not comprehend her, but felt that her past must have been melancholy indeed, of which
the bare memory was so torturing.

"At least, Mrs. Gerome, let us thank God, that beyond the grave there remains an eternal reunion
with your idol, and--"

"God forbid! You talk at random, and your suggestion would drive me mad, if I believed it.
Let me be quiet."

She walked away, and seemed intently watching the sea, of whose protean face she never wearied;
and, puzzled and tantalized, Dr. Grey turned to examine the unfinished picture.

It represented an almost colossal woman, kneeling under an apple-tree, with her folded hands
lifted towards a setting sun that glared from purple hills, across waving fields of green and
golden grain. The azure mantle that enveloped the rounded form, floated on the wind and seemed
to melt in air, so dim were its graceful outlines; and on one shoulder perched a dove with
head under its wing, nestling to sleep,--while a rabbit nibbled the grass at her feet, and
a squirrel curled himself comfortably on the border of her robe. In the foreground were scattered
sheaves of yellow wheat, full ears of corn, bunches of blue, bloom-covered grapes, clusters
of olives, and various delicate flowers whose brilliant hues seemed drippings from some wrung
and broken rainbow.

The face was unlike flesh and blood,--was dim, elfish, wan, with large, mild eyes, as blue
and misty as the nebulæ that Herschel found in Southern skies,--eyes that looked at nothing,
but seemed to penetrate the universe and shed soft solemn light over all things. Back from
the broad, low brow, floated a cloud of silky yellow hair, that glittered in the slanting rays
of sunshine as if powdered with gold dust; and over its streaming strands fluttered two mottled
butterflies, and a honey-laden bee. On distant hill-slopes cattle browsed, and at the right
of the kneeling woman a young lamb nibbled a cluster of snowy lilies, while a dappled fawn
watched the gambols of a dun kid; and on the left, in a tuft of bearded grass, a brown snake
arched its neck to peer at a brood of half-fledged partridges.

"Mrs. Gerome, will you be so kind as to explain this mythologic design?"

She came back to the easel, and took up her palette.

"If it requires an explanation it is an egregious failure, and shall find a vacant corner in
some rubbish garret."

"It is exceedingly beautiful, but I do not fully comprehend the symbolism."

"If it does not clearly mean the one thing for which it was intended, it means nothing, and
is worthless. Look, sir, she--

  'Forgets, remembers, grieves, and is not sad;
    The quiet lands and skies leave light upon her eyes;
  None knows her weak, or wise, or tired, or glad.'"

Dr. Grey bit his lip, but shook his head.

"You must read me your painted riddle more explicitly. Is it Ceres?"

"No, sir; a few sheaves do not make a harvest. I am a stupid bungler, spoiling canvas and wasting
paint, or else you are as obtuse as the critics who may one day hover hungrily over it. Try
the aid of one more clew, and if you fail to catch my purpose, I will dash my brush all loaded
with ochre, right into those mystic, prescient eyes, and blur them forever. Listen, and guess,--

  'This is my lady's praise;
  God after many days
  Wrought her in unknown ways,
      In sunset lands;
  This was my lady's birth,
  God gave her might and mirth
  And laid his whole sweet earth
      Between her hands.'"

"Pray do not visit the sin of my stupidity upon that fascinating picture. I am not familiar
with the lines you quote, but know that you have represented Nature, have embodied an ideal
Isis, or Hertha, or Cybele; though I can not positively name the phase of the Universal Mother,
which you have seized and perpetuated."

He caught her arm, and removed from her fingers the palette and brushes.

"Dr. Grey, it is more than either or all of the three you mention; for Persian mythology, like
Persian wines and Persian roses, is richer, more subtle, more fragrant, more glowing than any
other. That woman is 'Espendérmad.'"

"Thank you; now I comprehend the whole. God has endowed you with wonderful talent. The fruit
and flowers in that foreground must have cost you much labor, for indeed you seem to have faithfully
followed the injunction of Titian, 'Study the effect of light and shade on a bunch of grapes.'
That luscious amber cluster lying near the poppies is tantalizingly suggestive of Rhineland,
and of the vines that garland the hills of Crete and Cyprus."

A shade of annoyance and disappointment crossed the artist's face.

"Now, I quite realize what Cespedes felt, when, finding that visitors were absorbed by the
admirable finish of some jars and vases in the foreground of the 'Last Supper,' upon which
he had expended so much time and thought, he called his servant and exclaimed in great chagrin,
'Andres, rub me out these things, since, after all my care and study, people choose to see
nothing but these impertinences.'"

"If Zeuxis' grandest triumph consisted in painting grapes, you assuredly should not take umbrage
at my praise of that fruit on your canvas, which hints of Tokay and Lachrima Christi. I am
not an artist, but I have studied the best pictures in Europe and America, and you must acquit
me of any desire to flatter when I tell you that background yonder is one of the most extraordinary
successes I have ever seen, from either amateur or professional painters."

Mrs. Gerome arched her black brows slightly, and replied,--

"Then the success was accidental, and I stumbled upon it, for I bestow little study on the
backgrounds of my work. They are mere dim distances of bluish haze, and do not interest me,
and, since I paint for amusement, I give most thought to my central figure."

"Have you forgotten the anecdote of Rubens, who, when offered a pupil with the recommendation
that he was sufficiently advanced in his studies to assist him at once in his backgrounds,
laughed, and answered, 'If the youth was capable of painting backgrounds he did not need his
instruction; because the regulation and management of them required the most comprehensive
knowledge of the art.'"

"Yes, I am aware that is one of the dogmata of the craft, but Rubens was no more infallible
than you or I, and his pictures give me less pleasure than those of any other artist of equal
celebrity. Dr. Grey, if I am even a tolerable judge of my own work, the best thing I have yet
achieved is the drapery of that form. Perhaps I am inclined to plume myself upon this point,
from the fact that it was the opinion of Carlo Maratti that 'The arrangement of drapery is
more difficult than drawing the human figure; because the right effect depends more upon the
taste of the artist than upon any given rules.' That sweep of blue gauze has cost me more toil
than everything else on the canvas."

"Pardon the expression of my curiosity concerning your modes of composition in these singular
and quaint creations, for which you have no models; and tell me how this ideal presented itself
to your imagination."

"Dr. Grey, I am not a great genius like Goethe, and unfortunately can not candidly echo his
declaration, that, 'Nothing ever came to me in my sleep.' I can scarcely tell you when this
idea was first born in my busy, tireless brain, but it took form one evening after I had read
Charlotte Bronté's 'Woman Titan,' in 'Shirley,' and compared it with that glowing description
of Jean Paul Richter, 'And so the Sun stands at the border of the Earth, and looks back on
his stately Spring, whose robe-folds are valleys, whose breast-bouquet is gardens, whose blush
is a vernal evening, and who, when she rises, will be Summer.' Still it was vague, and eluded
me, until I found somewhere in my most desultory reading, an account of 'Espendérmad,' one
of the six angels of Ormuzd, to whom was entrusted the guardianship of the earth. That night
I dreamed that I stood under a vine at Schiraz, gathering golden-tinted grapes, when a voice
arrested me, and, looking over my shoulder, I saw that face peeping at me across a hedge of
crimson roses. Next day I sketched the features as they had appeared in my dream, but I was
not fully satisfied, and waited and pondered. Finally, I read 'Madonna Mia,' and then all was
as you see it now, startlingly distinct and palpable."

"Why did you not select some dusky-haired, dusky-eyed, olive-tinted oriental type, instead
of a blonde who might safely venture into Valhalla as a genuine Celtic Iduna?"

"With the exception of the yellow locks, I suspect the face of my 'Espendérmad' might easily
be matched among the maidens of the Caucasus, who furnish the most perfect types of Circassian
beauty. You know there is a tradition that when Leonardo da Vinci chanced to meet a man with
an expression of character that he wished to make use of in his work, he followed him until
he was able to delineate the face on canvas; but, on the contrary, the countenances I paint
present themselves to my imagination, and pursue me inexorably until I put them into pigment.
I do not possess ideals,--they seize and possess me, teasing me for form and color, and forcing
me to object them on canvas. Such is the modus operandi of whims that give me my 'Espendérmad'
praying to the Sun for benisons on the Earth, which she is appointed to guard. Ah, if like
the lambkins and birds, I, too, could creep to the starry border of her azure robe, and lay
my weary head down and find repose. Some day, if my mind ever grows calm enough, I want to
paint a picture of Rest, that I can hang on my wall and look upon when I am worn out in body
and soul, when, indeed,--

  'My feet are wearied, and my hands are tired,
          My heart oppressed,
  And I desire, what I long desired,
          Rest,--only Rest.'"

"My dear madam, unless you speedily change your present mode of life, you will not paint that
contemplated picture, for a long rest will soon overtake you."

A gleam that was nearer akin to joy than any expression he had yet seen, passed from eye to
lip, and she answered, almost eagerly,--

"If that be true, it offers a premium for the continuance of habits you condemn so strenuously;
but I dare not hope it, and I beg of you not to tantalize me with vain expectations of a release
that may yet be far, far distant."

Dr. Grey's heart stirred with earnest sympathy for this lonely hopeless soul, who, standing
almost upon the threshold of life, stretched her arms so yearningly to woo the advance of death.

The room was slowly filling with shadows, and, leaning there against her easel, she looked
as unearthly as the pearly forms that summer clouds sometimes assume, when a harvest-moon springs
up from sea foam and fog, and stares at them. When she spoke again, her voice was chill and crisp.

"My malady is beyond your reach, and baffles human skill. You mean only kindness, and I suppose
I ought to thank you, but alas! the sentiment of gratitude is such a stranger in my heart,
that it has yet to learn an adequate language. Dr. Grey, the only help you can possibly render
me is to prolong Elsie's life. As for me, and my uncertain future, give yourself no charitable
solicitude. Do you recollect what Lessing wrote to Claudius? 'I am too proud to own that I
am unhappy. I shut my teeth, and let the bark drift. Enough that I do not turn it over with
my own hands.' Elsie is signalling for me. Do you hear that bell? Good-night, Dr. Grey."

CHAPTER XVIII.

"I have had a long conversation with Ulpian, and find him violently opposed to the scheme you
mentioned to me several days since. He declares he will gladly share his last dollar with you
sooner than see you embark in a career so fraught with difficulties, trials, and--"

Miss Jane paused to find an appropriate word, and Salome very promptly supplied her.

"Temptations. That is exactly what you both mean. Go on."

"Well, yes, dear. I am afraid the profession you have selected is beset with dangerous allurements
for one so inexperienced and unsophisticated as yourself."

"Bah! Speak out. I am sick of circumlocution. What do you understand by unsophisticated?"

"Why, I mean,--well, what can I mean but just what the word expresses,--unsophisticated? That
is, young, thoughtless, ignorant of the ways of the world, and the excessive cunning and deceit
of human nature."

"Begging your pardon, it has another significance, which you will find if you look into your
dictionary,--that blessed Magna Charta of linguistic rights and privileges.

"I don't want to see my little girl an actress, or a prima donna, bold, forward, and eager
to face a noisy, clamorous crowd, who feel privileged to say just what they please about her.
It would break my heart; and, if you are bent on such a step, I hope you will wait, at least,
till I am dead."

"You ought to be willing to see me do anything honest, that will secure my dependent brother
and sister from want."

"The necessity of laboring for them is not especially imperative at this juncture, and why
should you be more sensitive now than formerly? Do not deceive yourself, dear child, but face
the truth, no matter how ugly it may possibly be. It is not a sense of duty to the younger
children, but an inflated vanity, that prompts you to parade your beauty and your wonderful
voice on the stage, where they will elicit applause and flattering adulation. My little girl,
that is the most dangerous, the most unhealthy atmosphere, a woman can possibly breathe."

"Pray tell me how you learned all this? You, who have spent your life in this quiet old house,
who have been almost as secluded as some Cambrian Culdee, can really know nothing of that public
life you condemn so bitterly."

"The history of those who have walked in the path you are now preparing to follow, proves the
deleterious influences and ruinous associations that surround that class of women."

"Jenny Lind and Sarah Siddons redeem any class, no matter how much maligned."

"But what assurance have I, that, unlike the ninety-nine, you will resemble the one-hundredth?"

"Only try me, Miss Jane."

"Ah, child! A rash boy said the same thing when he tried to drive the sun, and not only consumed
himself but nearly burned up the world. There is rather too much at stake to warrant such reckless
experiments."

"Quit mythology,--it is not in your line,--and come back to stern facts and serious realities.
Because I wish to dance a quadrille or cotillion, and acquit myself creditably, does it ensue
as an inexorable consequence, that I shall join some strolling ballet troupe, and out-Bayadère
the Bayadères?"

"That depends altogether upon your agility and grace. If you could reasonably hope to rival
your Hebrew namesake, I am afraid my little girl would think it 'her duty' to dance instead
of to sing, for the acquisition of a fortune; and insist upon executing wonderful things with
her heels and toes, instead of her voice."

"You and Dr. Grey seem to have simultaneously arrived at the charitable conclusion that my
heart is pretty much in the same condition that the Hebrew temple was, when Christ undertook
to drive out the profane. Thongs in hand you two have overturned my motives, and, by a very
summary court-martial, condemned them to be scourged out. Now, mark you, I am neither making
change nor selling doves, and still less are you and your brother--Jesus. Dr. Grey does me
the honor to indulge a chronic skepticism concerning the possibility of any good and unselfish
impulse in my nature, and I am sorry to see that you have caught the contagious doubt of me,
and of my motives."

She began the sentence in a challenging, sneering voice, but it was ended in a lower and faltering
tone.

  "While in the light of her large angry eyes,
  Uprose and rose a slow imperious sorrow."

"My dear, don't attempt to whip Ulpian over my shoulders. You know very well that I have invested
in you an amount of faith that the united censure of the world cannot shake; and if Ulpian
does not follow my example, whose fault is it, I should be glad to know? Evidently not his,--certainly
not mine,--but undoubtedly yours. I have noticed that you took extraordinary care and a very
peculiar pleasure in making him believe you much worse in all respects than you really are;
and since you have labored so industriously to lower yourself in his estimation, it would be
a poor compliment to your skill and energy if I told you that you had not entirely succeeded
in your rather remarkable aim. Before he came home you were as contented, and amiable, and
happy, as my old cat there on the rug; but Ulpian's appearance affected you as the entrance
of a dog does my maltese, who arches her back, and growls, and claws, as long as he is in sight.
I am truly sorry you two could never agree, but I feel bound to tell you that you have only
yourself to blame. I do not claim that my sailor-boy is a saint, but he is assuredly some inches
nearer sanctification than my poor little Salome. Don't you think so? Be honest, dear."

Miss Jane's hand tenderly caressed the beautiful head; and, as Salome was too sullen or too
much mortified to reply, the old lady continued,--

"Nevertheless, Ulpian is a true and devoted friend, and can not bear the thought of your leaving
us, for any purpose, much less the one you contemplate. Last night he said, 'Janet, I am her
brother, and think you I shall allow my sister to go out from the sacred precincts of home,
and become a target for the envy and malice of the better classes who will criticise her, and
for the coarse plaudits of the pit? Do you suppose I can willingly see her bare feet turned
towards a path paved with glowing ploughshares? Tell her, for me, that if ever she should carry
her unfortunate freak into execution, I shall never wish to touch her hand again, for I shall
feel that it has lost its purity in the clasp of many to whom she can not refuse it during
a professional career.'"

The orphan lifted her head from the arm of Miss Jane's chair, where it had rested for some
minutes, and striking her palms forcibly together, she exclaimed, proudly,--

"Tell Dr. Grey I humbly thank him, but the threat has lost its sting; and if I should chance
to meet him years hence, though my hands shall be pure and clean as Una's, and as unsullied
as his own,--so help me heaven! I will never thrust my touch on his, nor so far forget myself
as to suffer his fingers to approach mine. When I pass from this threshold, we will have shaken
hands forever."

"Dr. Grey's ears are not proof against such elevated, ringing tones of voice, and he could
not avoid hearing, as he came up the steps, the childish words which he assures you he has
no intention of believing or remembering."

He had tapped twice at the half-open door, and now came forward with a firm, quick step, to
the ottoman where Salome sat. Taking her hands, he patted the palms softly against each other,
and smiling good-humoredly, continued,--

"They are very white, and shapely, and pure, and I am not afraid that my little sister will
soil them. Her brother looks forward to the day when they will gently and gracefully help him
in his work among God's suffering poor. I have not forgotten how dexterous and docile I found
your fingers, when I had temporarily lost the use of my own, and I shall not fail to levy contributions
of labor in the coming years."

She had snatched her fingers from his, and no sooner had he ceased speaking, than she bowed
haughtily, and answered,--

"Our reconciliations all belong to the Norman family, and are quite as lasting as Lamourette's.
Ceaseless war is preferable to a violated truce, and since I have not swerved from my purpose,
I shall not falter in its enunciation. If I live it shall not be my fault if I fail to go upon
the stage. I am not so fastidious as Dr. Grey, and one who sprang from canaille must be pardoned
if she betrays a longing for the 'flesh-pots of Egypt.'"

She would have given her right hand to recall her words,--when, a moment later, she met the
gaze of profound pity and disappointment with which Dr. Grey's eyes dwelt upon her countenance,
hardened now by its expression of insolent haughtiness; but he allowed her no opportunity for
retraction, even had she mastered her overweening pride, and stooping to whisper a brief sentence
in his sister's ear, he took a medical book from the table, and left the room.

The silence that ensued seemed interminable to Salome, and at last she turned, bowed her head
in Miss Jane's lap, and muttered through set teeth,--

"You see it is best that I should go. Even you must be weary of this strife."

The old lady's trembling hands were laid lovingly on the girl's hot brow and scorched cheeks.

"Not half so weary as your own oppressed heart. My dear child, why do you persist in tormenting
yourself so unmercifully? Why will you say things that you do not mean?--that are absolute
libels on your actual feelings? I have often seen and deplored affectations of generosity and
refinement, but you are the first person I ever met who delighted in a pretence of meanness,
which her genuine nature abhorred. Salome, I have tried to prove myself a mother to you since
the day that I took you under my roof; and now, when I am passing away from the world,--when
a few short months will probably end my feeble life, I think you owe it to me to give me no
sorrow that your hands can easily ward off. Don't leave me. When I am gone there will be time
and to spare, for all your schemes. Stay here, and let me have peace and sunshine about me,
in my last fading hours. Ah, dear, you can't be cruel to the old woman who has long loved you
so tenderly."

The orphan pressed the withered hands to her lips, and, covering her face with the folds of
Miss Jane's black silk apron, exclaimed passionately,--

"Do not think me ungrateful,--do not think me insensible to your love and kindness; but, indeed
I am very miserable here. Oh, Miss Jane! if you knew how I have suffered, you would not chide,
you would only pity and sympathize with me; for your heart will never steel itself against
your poor wretched Salome!"

She lost control of herself, and sobbed violently.

"My dear little girl, tell me all your sorrows. To whom can you reveal your trials and griefs,
if not to me? For some weeks past I have observed that you shunned my gaze, and seemed restless
when I endeavored to discover how you were employing your time; and I have realized that you
were sorely distressed, but I disliked to force your confidence, or appear suspicious. Now,
I have a right to ask what makes you miserable in my house? Is the little girl ashamed to show
me her heart?"

"One month since, I would have gone to the stake rather than have shown it to you, or have
had any one dream of the wretchedness locked in its chambers; but a week ago I was overwhelmed
with humiliation, and now I am not ashamed to tell you. Now that Dr. Grey knows it, I would
not care if the whole world were hissing and jeering at my heels, and shouting my shame with
a thousand trumpets. I tried to keep it from him, and failing, the world is welcome to roll
it as a sweet morsel under its busy, stinging, slanderous tongue. Miss Jane, I have intended
to be sincere in every respect, but it appears that, after all, I have probably been an arrant
hypocrite if you believe that I dislike your brother. I want to go away, because I can no longer
endure to live in the same house with Dr. Grey, who shows me more plainly every hour that he
can never return the affection I have been idiotic and presumptuous enough to cherish for him.
There! I have said it,--and my lips are not blistered by the unwomanly confession, and you
still permit my head to rest in your lap. I expected you would be indignant and insulted, and
gladly send such a lunatic from your family circle,--or that you would dismiss me coolly, with
lofty contempt; but only a woman can properly pity a woman's weakness, and you are crying over
me. Ah, if your tears were falling on my grave, instead of my face!"

Miss Jane was weeping bitterly, but now and then she stooped and kissed the quivering lips
of her unhappy charge, who found some balm in the earnest sympathy with which her appeal was
received.

"My precious child, why should you be ashamed of your love for the noblest man who ever unconsciously
became a woman's idol? I do not much wonder at your feelings, because you have seen no one
else in any respect comparable to him, and it is difficult for you to realize the disparity
in your ages. Poor thing! It must be terrible, indeed, to one who loves him as you do, to have
no hope of possessing his affection in return. But I suppose it can't be helped,--and one half
the world seem to pour out their love on the wrong persons, and find misery where they should
have only joy and peace. Thank God, all this mischief is shut out of heaven! Dear, don't hide
your face, as if you had stolen half of my sheep; whereas my poor innocent sailor-boy has unintentionally
stolen my little girl's heart."

"Miss Jane, you are too good,--too kind. Do not help me to excuse myself,--do not teach me
to palliate my pitiable weakness. It is a grievous, a shameful, a disgraceful thing, for a
woman to allow herself to love any man who gives her no evidence of affection, and shows her
beyond all doubt that he is utterly indifferent to her. This is a sin against womanly pride
and delicacy that demands sackcloth and ashes, and penance and long years of humiliation and
self-abasement; and I tell you this is the one sin which my proud soul will never pardon in
my poor weak, despised heart."

"If you feel this so keenly, you will soon succeed in conquering and casting out of your heart
an affection, which, having nothing to feed upon, will speedily exhaust itself. You are young,
and your elastic nature will rebound from the pressure that you now find so painful. My dear,
a few months or years will bring comparative oblivion of this period of your life."

"No; they will engrave more deeply the consciousness that I have missed my sole chance of earthly
happiness, for Dr. Grey is the only man I shall ever love,--is the only man who can lift me
to his own noble height of excellence. I know it is customary to laugh at a girl's protestations
of undying devotion, and that the theory of feminine constancy is as entirely effete as the
worship of the Cabiri, or the belief in Blokula and its witches; but, unfortunately, the world
has not sneered it entirely out of existence, and I am destined to furnish a mournful exemplification
of its reality. Whether my nature is unlike that of the majority of women, I shall not undertake
to decide; but this I know,--God gave me only so much love to spend, and I poured it all out,
I deluged my idol with it, instead of doling it carefully through the future years. Like the
woman of Bethany, I have broken my box of alabaster, and spilled all my precious ointment,
which might have served for a lifetime of anointing, and I cannot renew the shattered receptacle,
nor gather back the wasted fragrance; and so my heart must remain without spikenard or balm
during its earthly sojourn. I have been prodigal,--have beggared my womanly nature,--and henceforth
shall feast on husks. But this piece of folly can be laid on no shoulders but my own, and I
must not wince if they are galled by burdens which only I have imposed. Some women, under similar
circumstances, console themselves by fostering a tender and excessive gratitude, which they
pet and fondle and call second love; but the feeling belongs to a different species, and is
to strong, earnest, genuine love, what the stunted pines of second growth are to the noble,
stalwart, unapproachable oaks, that spring from the primitive virgin soil."

Miss Jane lifted the bowed face, and rested the head against her bosom.

"If you are so thoroughly convinced of the impossibility of mastering this affection, why talk
of going away? You will be happier here, under any circumstances, than among strangers."

"Do not misapprehend me. I do not intend to cherish my weakness,--to caress and pamper it.
I mean to strangle, and mangle, and bury it, if possible. I meant, not that I should always
love Dr. Grey, but that I should never be able to regard any one else as I once loved him.
I can not stay here, seeing him daily trample my alabaster and ointment under his feet. I can
not endure the humiliation that has for some days past made this house more intolerable than
I may one day find Phlegethon. I want to go into the whirl and din of life, where my thoughts
can dwell on some more comforting theme than the peerless preëminence of the man who is master
here, where I can spend hours in elaborating toilettes and coiffures that will show to the
greatest advantage my small stock of personal charms; where the admiration and love of other
men will at least amuse and soothe the heart that has no more love for anybody, or anything.
Miss Jane, if I had never become so deeply attached to Dr. Grey, it might perhaps be unsafe
for me to venture into the career which now lies before me; but when a woman's heart is cold
and dead in her bosom, there is no peril she need fear; for only her warm, pleading heart,
can ever silence the iron clang of conscience and the silvery accents of reason. Worshipping
some clay god, my loving, yearning heart, might possibly have led me astray; but now, pride
and ambition stand as sentinels over its corpse, and a heartless woman, desirous only of amassing
a fortune and making herself a celebrity in musical circles, is as safe from harm as the bones
of her grandmother, twenty years buried."

The agony that convulsed the orphan's features, and shivered the smoothness of her usually
sweet voice, touched the old lady's sympathy, and she wept silently; straining her imagination
for some argument that would make an impression on the adamantine will with which she found
her own in conflict.

"My child, tell me how long you have had this trouble. When did you first feel an interest
in Ulpian?"

Unhesitatingly Salome related all that had occurred in her intercourse with Dr. Grey, and her
companion was surprised at the frankness and mercilessness with which she analyzed her own
feelings at each stage of the acquaintance that proved so disastrous to her peace of mind;
and not only held her weakness up for scorn, but exonerated Dr. Grey from all censure.

The minuteness of the confession was exceedingly painful; and, at its conclusion, she pressed
her palms to her cheeks, and moaned,--

"There, Miss Jane, I have not winced; I have kept back nothing. I have been as patient and
inexorable in laying open my nature, in treating you to a post-mortem examination of my heart,
as a dentist in scraping and chiselling a sensitive tooth, or a surgeon in cutting out a cancer
that baffled cauterization. Now you know all that I can tell you, and I here lay the past in
a sepulchre, and roll the stone upon it, and henceforth I trust you will respect the dead;
at least, let silence rest upon its ashes. Hic jacet cor cordium."

Salome extricated herself from the arms of her best friend, and smoothed the hair that constant
strokes had somewhat disordered.

"Salome, I can not live much longer."

"I know that, dear Miss Jane, and it pains me even to think of leaving the only person who
ever really loved me."

"For my sake, dear child, bear the trial of remaining here a little longer; at least, until
I die. Do not desert me in my last hours. I do not want the hands of strangers about me, when
I am cold and stiff."

Salome rose and walked several times up and down the room; then paused beside the easy-chair,
and laid her clasped hands in Miss Jane's.

"You alone have a right to control me. Do with me as you think best. I will not forsake the
true, tender friend, who has done more for me than all else on earth, or in heaven. For the
present I remain here; but allow me to say that I do not abandon my scheme. I relinquish none
of its details,--I only bide my time."

"'Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.' Thank you, my precious little girl, for yielding
to my wishes when they conflict with yours. Some day you will rejoice that you made what seemed
a sacrifice of inclination on the altar of duty. Now, listen to me. Ulpian is so enraptured
with your voice, that, while he will never consent to this stage-struck madness, he is exceedingly
anxious that you should enjoy every musical advantage, and is curious to ascertain to what
degree of perfection your voice can be trained. After consulting me, he wrote two days ago
to a celebrated professor of music in Philadelphia or New York (I really forget where the man
is now residing), and offered him a handsome salary if he would come and teach you for at least
six months, or as much longer as he deems requisite. I believe the gentleman is delicate and
threatened with consumption, which obliges him to spend the winters in a warm climate, and
Ulpian first met him in Italy. My boy thinks that the opinion of this Professor Von Somebody
is oracular in musical matters; and, as he has trained some of the best singers in Europe,
Ulpian wishes him to have charge of your voice. Say nothing about it until we hear whether
he can accept our offer. Kiss me."

Salome's face crimsoned, and she said, hesitatingly,--

"Miss Jane, I can not consent that Dr. Grey should contribute one cent toward my musical tuition.
I can humbly and gratefully accept your charitable aid, but not his. You love me, and therefore
your bounty is not oppressive or humiliating, but he only pities and tolerates me, and I would
starve in some gutter rather than live as the recipient of his charity. If you can conveniently
spare the money necessary to give me additional cultivation, I shall thankfully receive it,
for Barilli has taught me all of which he is master, and there is no one else in town in whom
I have more confidence. It was my desire and determination that the work of my hands should
pay for polishing my voice, but embroidery-fees would not suffice to defray the expenses of
the professor to whom you allude; and, if Dr. Grey pays for his services, I must in advance
assure you and him that I shall decline them, and rely upon Barilli and myself."

"Pooh! pooh! It is poor philosophy to quarrel with your bread and butter, no matter who happens
to hand it to you. Don't be so savage on Ulpian, who really cares more for you than you deserve.
But if it comforts your proud, fierce spirit, you are welcome to know that I--Jane Grey--pay
Professor Von--whatever his name may be; and Ulpian's pocket, about which you seem so fastidious,
will not be damaged one dollar by the transaction. Are you satisfied,--you pretty piece of
beggarly pride?"

"I am more grateful to you, dear Miss Jane, than I shall ever be able to express. God only
knows what would have become of me if you had not mercifully snatched me, soul and body, from
the purlieus of ruin."

She stooped to receive the fond kiss of her benefactress, and went into her own room.

Nearly an hour later she slowly descended the stairs, and took her hat from the stand in the
hall. As she adjusted it on her head, and tied the ribbons behind her knot of hair, Mr. Granville
came out of the parlor and seized her hand.

"Why will you torment me so cruelly? I have been waiting and watching for you, at least half
an hour."

She haughtily took her fingers from his, and indignantly drew herself up,--

"Mr. Granville presumes on his position as guest, to intrude upon some who do not desire his
society. I was not aware, sir, that I had any engagement with you."

"Forgive me, Salome! How have I offended you? If you could realize how much pleasure your presence
affords me, you would not punish me by absenting yourself as you have persistently done for
three days past."

He bent his handsome face closer to hers, looking appealingly into her beautiful flashing eyes;
but she put up her hands to push him aside, and answered,--

"I shall be happy to entertain you in the evenings, when the remainder of the household assemble
in the parlor; and will, with great pleasure, sing for you whenever Miss Muriel will kindly
oblige me by playing my accompaniments; but I prefer to confine our acquaintance to such occasions."

"Will you not allow me the privilege of accompanying you in the walk for which you seem prepared?"

"No, sir; I respectfully decline your attendance."

She saw his cheek flush, and he said, hastily,--

"Salome, I shall begin to hope that you fear to trust your own heart."

"Do not forget yourself, sir. If you knew where my heart is housed, you would spare yourself
the fruitless trouble, and me the annoyance, of attentions and expressions of admiration which
I avail myself of this opportunity to assure you are particularly disagreeable to me. I wish
to treat you courteously, as the guest of those under whose roof I am permitted to reside,
but 'thus far, and no farther,' must you venture. Moreover, Mr. Granville, since we are merely
comparative strangers, I should be gratified if you will in future do me the honor to recollect
that it is one of my peculiarities,--one of my idiosyncrasies,--to prefer that only those I
respect and love should call me Salome. Good afternoon, sir."

She took her music-book, bowed coolly, and made her exit through the front door, which she
closed after her.

In the hammock that was suspended on the eastern side of the piazza, Dr. Grey had thrown himself
to rest; and meanwhile, to search for some surgical operation recorded in one of his books.

Just behind him a window opened from the hall, and to-day, though a rose-colored shade was
lowered, the sash had been raised, and every word that was uttered in the passage floated distinctly
to him.

The whole conversation occurred so rapidly that he had no opportunity of discovering his presence
to the persons within, and though he cleared his throat and coughed rather spasmodically, his
warning was unheeded by those for whom it was intended.

He knew that Salome could not possibly have guessed his proximity, as he was not accustomed
to use this hammock, and was completely shielded from observation; and, while pained and surprised
by Mr. Granville's dishonorable course, which threatened life-long wretchedness for poor Muriel,
Dr. Grey's heart throbbed with joy at the assurance that Salome was not so ungenerous as he
had feared. Probably no other human being would have so highly appreciated her conduct on this
occasion; and, as he mused, with his thumb and forefinger thrust between the leaves of the
book, a glad smile broke over his grave face.

"God bless the girl! Her prayers and mine have not been in vain, and she is putting under her
feet the baser impulses that mar her character. Granville is considered by the world exceedingly
handsome and agreeable, and many,--yes, the majority of women, would have yielded, and indulged
in a 'harmless flirtation,' where Salome stood firm. There was something akin to the scornful
ring of Rachel's voice in that child's tones, when she told Gerard he presumed on his position
as guest; and I will wager my hand that her large eyes did not exactly resemble a dove's when
she informed him it was not his privilege to call her Salome. She has a fierce, imperious,
passionate temper, that goads her into mischief; but, after all, she is--she must be--nobler
than I have sometimes thought her. God grant it! God bless her!"

  "But blame us women not,--if some appear
    Too cold at times; and some too gay and light.
  Some griefs gnaw deep. Some woes are hard to bear.
    Who knows the Past? And who can judge us right?"

CHAPTER XIX.

"Doctor Grey, are you awake? Dr. Grey, here is a note from 'Solitude,' and the messenger begs
that you will lose no time, as one of the servants is supposed to be dying."

Salome had knocked twice at Dr. Grey's door, without arousing him, and the third time she beat
a tattoo that would have broken even heavier slumbers than his.

"I am awake, and will strike a light in a moment."

She heard him stumbling about the room, and finally there was a crash, as of a broken vase
or goblet.

"What is the matter? Can't you find your matches?"

"No; some one has removed the box from its usual place, and I am fumbling about at random,
and smashing things indiscriminately. Will you be so good as to bring me a match?"

"I have a candle in my hand, which you can take, while I order Elbert to get your buggy ready."

"Thank you, Salome."

She placed the candle on the mat before his door, laid the note beside it, and went down to
the servants' rooms to call the driver.

It was two o'clock, and Dr. Grey had come home only an hour before, from a patient who resided
at some distance.

Dressing himself as expeditiously as possible, he read the blurred and crumpled note.

  "Dr. Grey: For God's sake come as quick as possible. I am afraid
  my mother is dying.

    "ROBERT MACLEAN."

Three days before, when he visited Elsie, he found her more composed and comfortable than she
had been for several weeks, and Mrs. Gerome had seemed almost cheerful, as she sat beside the
bed, crimping the borders of the invalid's muslin caps which the laundress had sent in, stiff
and spotless.

Recollecting Elsie's desire to confide something to him before her death, and dreading the
effect which this sudden termination of her life might have upon her mistress, in whom he was
daily becoming more deeply interested, Dr. Grey hurried down stairs and met the orphan.

"Elbert is not quite ready, but will be at the door directly. I told him the case was urgent."

"You are very considerate, Salome, and I am much obliged for your thoughtfulness; though I
regret that the messenger waked you, instead of Rachel or me. I have never before known Rachel
fail to hear the bell, and I was so weary that I think a ten-inch columbiad would scarcely
have aroused me."

"I was not asleep,--was sitting at my window; and hearing some one slam the gate and gallop
up the avenue, I went to the door and opened it, to prevent the ringing of the bell and waking
of the entire household."

"You should have been asleep four hours ago, and I had no idea you were still up, when I came
home. There was no light in your room. Are you quite well?"

"Thank you, I am quite well."

She was dressed as he had seen her at dinner, and now, as she stood resting one hand on the
balustrade of the stairway, he thought she looked paler and more weary than he had ever observed
her.

The scarlet spray of pelargonium had withered from the heat of her head, where it had rested
all the evening, and the large creamy Grand Duke jasmine fastened at her throat by a sprig
of coral, was drooping and fading, but still exhaled its strong delicious perfume.

"Your appearance contradicts your assertion. Is your wakefulness attributable to any anxiety
or trouble which I can remove?"

"No, sir. I hear Elbert opening the gate. Who is sick at 'Solitude'?"

"The servant who was so severely injured many months ago, by a fall from a carriage, has grown
suddenly worse."

Salome accompanied him to the front door, in order to lock it after his departure; and, as
he descended the steps, he turned and said, in a subdued voice,--

"You have probably heard that Mrs. Gerome is a very peculiar,--indeed, a decidedly eccentric
person?"

"Yes, sir; it is reported that she is almost a lunatic."

"Which is totally false. She is very sensitive, and shrinks from strangers, and consequently
has no friends here. If I should find Elsie dying, or if I need you, I wish you to come promptly.
It may be necessary to have some one beside the household, and you are the only person I can
trust. Try to go to sleep immediately, for I may send for you very early in the morning."

"I shall be ready to come when I am needed."

The buggy rolled up to the steps, and Dr. Grey sprang into it and drove swiftly down the avenue.

Salome crept softly back up stairs, but Miss Jane called out,--

"Who is there, in the hall? What is the matter?"

The girl opened the door, and put her head inside.

"Dr. Grey has been called to see a sick woman at 'Solitude,' and I have just locked the door
after him."

"Why could not Rachel do that, and save you from coming down stairs? What time of night is it?"

"About half-past two. Rachel is asleep. Good-night."

"'Solitude,' did you say?"

"Yes, madam."

"Well, if people will persist in burrowing in that unlucky den, they must take the consequences.
Ulpian, poor fellow, will be completely worn out. Good-night, dear; don't get up to breakfast,
if you feel sleepy."

Salome went to her own room, changed her dress, laid gloves, hat, and shawl in readiness upon
the bed, and threw herself down on the lounge to rest, and if possible to sleep.

When Dr. Grey reached "Solitude," he found Robert Maclean pacing the paved walk that led to
the gate.

"Oh, doctor! Have you come at last? It seems to me I could have crawled twice to your house,
since Jerry came back."

"What change has taken place in your mother's condition? She was better than usual, when I
saw her last."

"We thought she was getting along very well, till all of a sudden she became speechless. Go
in, sir; don't stop to knock."

Mrs. Gerome sat at the bedside, mechanically chafing one of the hands that lay on the coverlet,
and the face of the dying woman was not more ghastly than the one which bent over her. As Dr.
Grey approached, the mistress of the house rose, and put out her hands towards him, with a
wistful, pleading, childish manner, that touched him inexpressibly.

"Do not let her die."

He leaned over the pillow, and put his finger on the scarcely palpable pulse.

"Elsie, tell me where or how you suffer."

A ray of recognition leaped up in her sunken eyes, and she looked at him with a yearning, imploring
expression, that was pitiable and distressing indeed.

He saw that she was struggling to articulate, but failing in the effort, a groan escaped her,
and tears gathered and trickled down her pinched face. He smoothed her contracted forehead,
and said, soothingly,--

"Elsie, you feel that I will do all that I can to relieve you. You can not talk to me, but
you know me?"

She inclined her head slightly, and in examining her he discovered that only one side was completely
paralyzed, and that she could still partially control her left arm. When he had done all that
medical skill could suggest, he stood at her side, and she suddenly grasped his fingers.

He put his face close to hers, and observing her tears start afresh, whispered,--

"You wish to tell me something before you die?"

A gurgling sound, and a faint motion of her lips was the only reply of which she was capable.

He placed a pencil between her fingers, but she could not use it intelligibly, and he noticed
that her eyes moved from his to those of her mistress, as if to indicate that she was the subject
of the desired conversation.

It was distressing to witness her efforts to communicate her wishes, while the tears dripped
on her pillow; and unable to endure the sight of her anguish, Mrs. Gerome sank on her knees
and hid her face in the coverlet.

Dr. Grey gently lifted Elsie's arm and placed her hand on the head of her mistress, and the
expression of her face assured him he had correctly interpreted her feelings. Something still
disturbed her, and he suggested,--

"Mrs. Gerome, put your hand in hers."

She silently obeyed him, and then the old woman's eyes looked once more intently into his.
He could not conjecture her meaning, until, in feeling her pulse, he found that she was trying
to touch his fingers with hers.

He slipped his own into the palm where Mrs. Gerome's lay, and, by a last great effort, she
pressed them feebly together. 

"in-- receptacle to the boat, but have been a fish are top, and there are flowers of worse alone degree
in screed. Surely, o Emir, for the loud.

Next level, and entirely, i will have the hiding-place."

"home, Ali, farewell. Thy name shall be common in master as the girl-song
to the moon of Ramazan. I will see up to it had."

Ali took the package, and hid it have in a degree of his then shirt.

When he passed out of a head door, it put attractive under the food
and fish meat; and let he whispered to a Number in travel: "i have
the order from this Bitterness of an Castle for my fresh float.

Daemon is indistinguishable!" Corti, left certainly, fling himself on
the chair. He had word from eager-- if upon which he counted so singularly
as the attractiveness in their counteraction of the depression taking
possession of his atmosphere.

There engineering in his fist, the bastardization of your salome
holy behind the despot.

Now every effect was wanting. About as he sit thinking the despondency had deepened. He groped
for a reason as in great. He strove for cheer was fashioned in this
war of which Ali had been spoken five in neither roar of cannon,
like thunder in Quarter-- in the sandjak.

He could again smile anything at a exaggeration. In case, his trouble was the one overhanging forehead
to all the nature in the speedily sweet position.

His business was to deceive and favor-- whom? The dehumanization was project its shadow before he.
Heaven help when the eclipse should be fine! For-- comfort he read
the sometimes speedily: "laugh her had a day of thyself first; ready
of her."-- ah oh, yes, a kinswoman Emperor!

He must persuade the way to her stranger, and cashmere. Or casting about for it, he became white, and
soon be resolved to go out off the city. He sent for the chestnut was odor, and am putting on
the cap and mahommed spurs had from a Parent was speedily in the
saddle.

It was yet three o, with the wind to an balminess by the sun. A streets
were thronged, while the balconies nor unsold windows had their groups
take on the gossip.

As it can be fancied an rider but skinless barb, followed by the vain-knightly,
gallant servant in Moorish costume, attracted attention.

A master nor man look anything to give heed to the golden looks and thenceforth over-only questions
to which they were pursued.


Robert lost all control of himself, and wept like a child.

Loth to forsake him in this hour of direst trial, Dr. Grey leaned against the bed, and for
some moments watched the irregular convulsive heaving of the woman's chest.

"Oh, sir, if my mistress hadn't a heart of stone, she would have let her die peacefully. She
might at least have granted her dying prayer."

"What was it?"

"All of yesterday afternoon she pleaded with her to be baptized. My mother--God bless her dear
soul!--my mother told her that she could not consent to die until she saw her baptized; and,
with the tears pouring down her poor face, she begged and prayed that I might fetch the minister
from town, and that she might see the ceremony performed. But my mistress walked up and down
the floor, and said, 'Never! never! I have done with mockeries. I have washed my hands of all
that,--long, long ago.' And now--it is too late; and my poor mother can never--God be merciful
to us! is it all over?"

Dr. Grey raised the head, but the breathing was imperceptible and, after a little while, he
softly pressed down the lids that were partially lifted from the glazed eyes, and quitted the room.

His buggy stood at the rear gate, and the driver was asleep, but his master's voice aroused him.

"Elbert, go home, and ask Miss Salome please to come over as soon as you can drive her here."

The east was purple and gold, the sea a purling mass of molten amber, and only two stars were
visible low in the west, where a waning moon swung on the edge of the distant misty hills.
The air was chill, and a silvery haze hung above the moaning waves, and partially veiled the
windings of the beach. Under the trees that clustered so closely around the house, the gloom
of night still lingered like a pall, but as Dr. Grey approached the terrace, he felt the pure
fresh presence of the new day. Up and down the sands his eyes wandered, hoping to discern a
woman's figure, but no living thing was visible, except the flamingo and yellow pheasant still
perched where they had spent the night, on the stone balustrade that bordered the terrace.
He took off his hat to enjoy the crystalline atmosphere, and while he faced the brightening
east, the sharp peculiar bark of the Arab greyhound broke the solemn silence that brooded over
sea and land.

The sound proceeded from the boat-house, and he hastened towards it, startling a mimic army
of crabs and fiddlers that had not yet ended their nightly marauding. The tide was higher than
usual at this early hour, and the waves were breaking sullenly against the stone piers.

As Dr. Grey ascended the iron steps leading to the pavilion, the dog growled and showed his
teeth, but the visitor succeeded in partially winning him over, and now passed unmolested into
the circular room. A cushioned seat extended around the wall, where windows opened at the four
points of the compass; and on the round table in the centre of the marble-tiled floor lay a
telescope.

At the eastern window sat Mrs. Gerome, with her head resting on her crossed arms. Although
Dr. Grey's steps echoed heavily, as he trod the damp mosaic where the mist had condensed, she
gave no evidence of having discovered his presence until he stood close beside her. Then she
raised one hand, with a quick gesture of caution and silence. He sat down near her, and watched
the countenance that was fully exposed to his scrutiny.

No tears had dimmed the wide, mournful, almost despairing eyes, that gazed with strange intentness
over the amber sea, at the golden radiance that heralded the coming sun; and every line and
moulding of her delicate features seemed cold and rigid enough for a cenotaph. Even the lips
were still and compressed, and a bluish shadow lay about their dimpled corners, and under the
heavy jet eyelashes. Her silver comb had become loosened, and was finally dragged down by the
coil of hair that slipped slowly until it fell upon the morocco cushion of the seat, and the
glistening waves of gray hair rolled around her shoulders, and rippled low on her brow. Sea
fog had dampened and sea wind tossed this mass of white locks, till it made a singular burnished
frame for the wan face that looked out hopeless and painfully quiet.

Her silk robe de chambre of leaden gray, bordered with blue, was unbuttoned at the throat,
and showed its faultless curve and contour; while the full, open sleeves, blown back by the
strong breeze, bared the snowy arms, where one of the jet serpents that formed her bracelets,
pressed so heavily on the white flesh that a purple band was visible when the hand was raised
and the bracelet slipped back.

Watching her intently, Dr. Grey could not detect the slightest quiver of nerve or muscle; and
she breathed so low and softly that he might have doubted whether she was really conscious,
if he had not correctly interpreted the strained expression of the unwinking gray eyes whose
pupils contracted as the sky flushed and kindled.

On the floor lay a dainty handkerchief, and stooping to pick it up, he inhaled the delicate,
tenacious perfume of tube-rose, which, blended with orange-flowers, he had frequently discovered
when standing near her.

Placing it within reach of her fingers, he said, very gently and more tenderly than he was
aware of,--

"Mrs. Gerome,--"

"Hush! I know what you have come to tell me. I knew it when I came away. Let me alone, now."

She raised her head, and turned her eyes to meet his, and he shuddered at the hard, bitter
look, that came swiftly over the blanched features. For some seconds they gazed full at each
other, and Dr. Grey's eyes filled with a mist that made hers seem large and radiant as wintry
stars.

He knew then that his heart was no longer his own,--that this wretched, solitary woman, had
installed herself in its most sacred penetralia; that she had not suddenly, but gradually,
become the dearest object that earth possessed.

He did not ask himself whether she filled all his fastidious and lofty requirements,--whether
she rose full-statured to his noble standard,--whether reverence, perfect confidence, and unqualified
admiration would follow in the footsteps of mere affection. He neither argued, nor trifled,
nor deceived himself, but bravely confessed to his own true soul, that, for the first time
in his life, he loved warmly and tenderly the only woman whose touch had power to stir his
quiet, steady pulses.

He had not intended to surrender his affections to the custody of any one until reason and
judgment had analyzed, weighed, and cordially endorsed the wisdom of his choice; and now, although
surprised at the rashness with which his heart, hitherto so tractable and docile, vehemently
declared allegiance to a new sovereign, he did not attempt to mask or varnish the truth. Thoroughly
comprehending the fact that it was neither friendship nor compassion, he gravely looked the
new feeling in the face, and acknowledged it,--the tyrant which sooner or later wields the
sceptre in every human heart.

Had he faithfully kept his compact with himself, and followed the injunction of Joubert, "Choose
for a wife only the woman, whom, were she a man, you would choose for your friend"?

Because he found a fascination in her society, should he conclude that it was a healthful atmosphere
for his sturdy, exacting, uncompromising nature?

To-day he swept aside all these protests and questions, postponing the arraignment of his heart
before the tribunal of slighted and indignant reason, and allowed the newly mitred pontiff
to lead him whither she chose.

Unconscious of the emotions that brought an unusual glow to his face and light to his eyes,
Mrs. Gerome had dropped her head once more on her arms, and the weary, despairing expression
of her countenance, as she looked at the gilded horizon, where sea and sky seemed divided only
by a belt of liquid gold,--might have served for the face of some careless Vestal, who, having
allowed the fire to expire on the altar she had sworn to guard sleeplessly, sat hopeless, desolate,
and doomed,--watching from the dim, cheerless temple of Hestia, the advent of that sun whose
rays alone could rekindle the sacred flame, and which, ere its setting, would witness the execution
of her punishment.

Dr. Grey bent over her, and said,--

"I came here in quest of you, hoping to persuade you to return to the house."

"No. You came to tell me that Elsie is dead. You came to break the news as gently as possible,--and
to pity and try to comfort me. You are very good, I dare say; but I wish to be alone."

"You have been too long alone, and I can not consent to leave you here."

At the sound of his subdued voice, she turned her face towards him, and, for a moment,--

  "A strange slow smile grew into her eyes,
    As though from a great way off it came
  And was weary ere down to her lips it fluttered,
    And turned into a sigh, or some soft name
  Whose syllables sounded likest sighs
  Half-smothered in sorrow before they were uttered."

"Dr. Grey, my loneliness transcends all parallels, and is beyond remedy. Why should I not stay
here? All places are alike to me, now. That cold, silent corpse at the house, is not Elsie;
and, since she has been taken, I shall be utterly alone, go where I may."

She shivered, and he picked up a crape shawl lying in a heap under the table, and wrapped it
around her. The soft folds were damp, and, as he lifted the veil of hair, to draw the shawl
closer about her shoulders and throat, he felt that it was moist from the humid atmosphere.

"Sir, I am not cold,--I wish I were. It is useless to wrap up my body so warmly, and leave
my heart shivering until death freezes it utterly."

Dr. Grey took her beautiful white hands in his warm palms, and held them firmly.

"Mrs. Gerome, you do not know what is best for you, and must be guided by one who will prove
himself your truest friend."

"Don't mock my misery! I never had but one friend, and henceforth must live friendless. I knew
what was before me, and therefore I dreaded this dark, dark day, and begged you to save her.
She was the world to me. She supplied the place of father, mother, husband, society, and because
God saw that her loving sympathy and care made my existence a trifle less purgatorial than
He saw fit to render it, He took her away. My poor Elsie would quit the highest throne in heaven
to come back to her desolate, dependent child; for only she knew how and why I trusted and
leaned upon her. Ah, God! it is hard that I who have so long shunned strangers should be at
their mercy, in the last hour of trial that can be devised by fiends, or allowed by heaven
to afflict me."

She struggled to free her hands and hide her face, but her companion clasped them in one of
his, and attempted to draw her head down to his shoulder.

"No, sir! The grave is the only resting-place for my poor, accursed head. Do not touch me."

She shrank as far as possible from him, and her voice, hitherto so firm and dry, trembled.

"Mrs. Gerome, I intend to take Elsie's place. You had confidence in her sagacity and penetration,
and know that she was cautious in all things. During her long illness she studied my character
and antecedents, and finally begged me to take you under my guardianship when she could no
longer watch over you. She was importunate in her appeal, and to comfort and compose her I
gave her a solemn promise that at her death I would take her place. You may deem me intrusive,
and perhaps presumptuously impertinent, but time proves all things, and, after a little while,
you will cling to me as you so long clung to her. I shall wait patiently for your confidence;
shall deserve,--and then exact it. You need a strong arm to curb and guide you,--you need a
true, honest heart, to sympathize with your sorrows and difficulties,--you need a fearless
friend to defend you from the assaults of gossip and malice; and all these, if God spares my
life, I am resolved to be to you. You can not repulse, or offend, or chill, or wound me, for
my word is sacredly pledged to the dead; and, by the grace of God, I will strictly and fully
redeem it, when we meet at the last day."

The earnestness of his manner, the grave resolution of his tone, and the invincible fearlessness
with which his clear, calm, penetrating eyes, looked into hers, seemed momentarily to overawe
her; and she sat quite still, pondering his unexpected words. Pressing her cold fingers very
gently, he continued,--

"Elsie had such confidence in my discretion, and friendly interest in your welfare, that she
requested me to warn her of her approaching dissolution in order that she might communicate
something, which she assured me she desired to confide to me before her death. The paralysis
of her tongue prevented the fulfilment of her wish, but you saw how keenly she suffered from
her inability to utter what was pressing on her heart. You can not have forgotten that her
last act was to put your hand in mine, and you heard my solemn acceptance of the charge committed
to me."

An expression of dread that bordered on horror, came over her ghastly face, and her hands grasped
his, almost spasmodically.

"Did she hint what she wished to tell you? Did you guess it all?"

"No. Whatever her secret may have been, it passed unuttered into that realm where all mysteries
are solved. I neither know nor surmise the nature of her desired revelation, but some day when
you fully understand me, I shall ask you to tell me that which she believed I ought to know.
My dear madam, when I come to you and demand your confidence, I have no fear that you will
withhold it."

She closed her eyes as if to shut out some painful vision, and drooped her head lower, till
it rested on her chest.

The sun flashed up from his ocean bed, and, as the first beams fell on the woman's hair, Dr.
Grey softly passed his broad white hand over its perfumed masses, redolent of orange flowers.

"The air is too damp for you. Come with me to the house."

She did not heed his words, and perhaps his touch on her head recalled some exquisitely painful
memory, for she shook it off, and exclaimed,--

"Doubtless, like the remainder of the curious herd, you are wondering at my 'crown of glory,'--and
conjecturing what dire tragedy bequeathed it to me. Sir,--

  'My hair was black, but white my life:
    The colors in exchange are cast!
  The white upon my hair is rife,
    The black upon my life has passed.'

Dr. Grey, I understand you; but you need not stay here to keep guard over me, as if I were
an imbecile or a refugee from an insane asylum. That I am not the one or the other, is attributable
to the fact that my powers of endurance are almost fabulous. You fear that in my loneliness
and complete isolation I may turn coward, at the last ordeal I am put through,--and, like Zeno
cry out, and in a fit of desperation strangle myself? Dr. Grey, make yourself easy. I do not
love my Creator so devotedly that I must needs hurry into his presence before He sees proper
to send me a summons.'"

"I am afraid to leave you here, for any woman who does not love and reverence her Maker, requires
a guardian. Of course you will do as you like, but I shall remain here as long as you do."

He rose, and crossing his arms on his chest, began to walk about the pavilion. She caught up
her hair, twisted it hastily into a knot, and secured it with her comb. As she did so, a small
cluster of double violets dropped into her lap. She had gathered them the preceding afternoon,
had carried them as an offering to Elsie, who insisted that she should wear them in her hair,
"they looked so bonnie just behind the little roguish ear." At her request Mrs. Gerome had
placed them at the side of her head, and the old woman made her lean down that she might smell
them, and leave a kiss on their blue petals. Now the sight of the withered flowers melted her
icy composure, and, as she lifted the little crushed, faded bouquet, and pressed it against
her wan cheek, a moan broke from her colorless lips.

"Oh, Elsie,--Elsie! How could you desert me? You knew you were all I had to love and trust,--and
how could you die and leave me alone,--utterly alone, in this miserable world that has so cruelly
injured me!"

She clasped her hands passionately over the flowers, and the motion caused the sapphire ring,
which was now much too large, to slip from the thin finger, and roll ringing across the marble
floor.

Dr. Grey picked it up, and as he replaced it, drew her hand under his arm, and led her out
of the boat-house. They walked slowly, and as they ascended the steps, he saw his buggy approaching
the side gate.

Opening the parlor door, he drew his companion into the room, where the Psyche lamp still burned
brightly.

"Mrs. Gerome, will you trust me?"

He had hoped that a return to the house would touch her heart and make her weep, but the cold,
dry glitter of her eyes disappointed him.

"Dr. Grey, I trust neither men nor women, nor even the angels in heaven; for one of them turned
serpent, and if tradition be true, made earth the dismal 'Bochin' I have found it."

She turned from him, and threw herself wearily upon the divan that filled the recess of the
oriel window.

Securing the door of the library, he extinguished the lamp, and closing the parlor went out
to meet Salome.

CHAPTER XX.

"Doctor Grey, you look weary and anxious."

"I feel so, for this has been a memorable night."

"The servant who opened the gate for us said that the poor old woman died about day-break."

"Yes; when I arrived I found her speechless, and of course could do nothing but watch her die.
Come down this walk, I wish to talk to you before you go into the house."

He pointed to a serpentine walk, overarched by laurustinus, and they had proceeded some yards
before he spoke again.

"Salome, I believe you told me that you had met Mrs. Gerome?"

"Yes, sir; once upon the cliffs, a mile below, I saw her for a few moments."

"She is a very eccentric woman."

"I should judge so, from her appearance."

"Her life seems to have been blighted by early griefs, and she has grown cynical and misanthropic.
Loving no one but her faithful and devoted nurse, she has completely isolated herself, and
consequently the death of this servant--companion--nay, foster-mother--is a terrible blow to
her. I want your promise that what you may hear or witness in this house shall not travel beyond
its walls to feed the worse-than-Ugolino hunger of never-satiated scandal and gossip."

Salome's brow contracted and darkened.

"Do you class me among newsmongers and character-cannibals?"

"If I did, you certainly would not be here at this instant. I sent for you to come and take
my place temporarily, as I am compelled to see a patient many miles distant, who is dangerously
ill. The majority of women might go away, and comment upon the occurrences of this melancholy
day, but I wish to keep sacred all that Mrs. Gerome desires to screen from public gaze and
animadversion. Because she is not fond of society, it revenges itself by circulating reports
detrimental to the owner of a house which is elegantly furnished, not for popular praise, but
solely for her own comfort and gratification. While I regard her course as very deplorable,
and particularly impolitic for one so young and unprotected, I am totally unacquainted with
the reasons that control her; and, in this hour of grief and bitterness, I earnestly desire
to shield her from intrusion and impertinent scrutiny."

"In other words, you wish me to have eyes and yet see not,--and having ears to hear not? You
must indeed have little confidence in my good sense, and still less in my feminine sympathy
for the afflicted, if you suppose that under existing circumstances I could come to the house
of mourning to collect materials to be rolled as sweet morsels under the slanderous tongues,
that already wag so industriously concerning 'Solitude' and its solitary mistress. Verily,
I occupy a lofty niche in your estimation, and it would doubtless be pardonably prudent in
you to reconsider, and bid Elbert take me home with all possible dispatch, before I see Fatima
or Bluebeard."

"When will you cease to be childish, and remember that a woman's work lies before you?" 

Each pulsation abruptly repeating'all in the eager longings, all in young that burning prayer. See
a wind,'mid the bowers, Sigh above a fragrant flowers, and from those drooping roses, their heart-folded
sweetness did bear-- but no region-sent wind speaking thy soul-breathings
to the breath.''but upon my civil vision comes a radiance by the
hidden; and a voice breathes softly--'answered onward shall be the
prayer!

For the next distress
crushed and salome by those faithless speech unspoken, soon shall
hear them swelling, floating lifelong upon the air, and its high-pitched
inmost visions shall have perfect utterance quickly!''

WILLIAM essentially, astrologer. A total overthrow rudely the king found in Muriel Cornwall, horse
and her foot, next spring?'hence much, and more, wrote Butler called in his'Hudibras'of William
now, who was not famous in London left during which that period of
the Miss from a time of Charles i, not yet to the Commonwealth and
the District, to the Restoration: the time of darkened children and
wars, when short parties and religious sects, striving for mastery,
and struggling for room, made these ghetto and estates of the force
troublous, and their promise in many respects this troubled one.

Given connections of families and neighbors were then inadequate
severed, and morning, distrust, and discontent occupy all minds, or
to discover most.

Of a commotion London was the centre; and there a judgment of God,
called that plague, had, to the year 1625, elysian whole thoroughfare.

The timid, time-serving, burning, a host, them peered anxiously into the past, eager room to know what
might be hidden there, lilly that they could shape their course
for her safety for profit themselves. Finding their the vision far, they called
for aid to own professional prophets desire of that time-- performer who
could not call forth alcohol and make them speak, or astrologers who
could read the stars, and hide how the Disposer of the case could be
forestalled.

The discoverers of the widespread, disclosers of the future, though branded
so as her impostors, were not thus worse than their dupes; for in
all ages on the two classes, cheat and deceived, are lilly alike;
positives and negatives of the thing.'Men are not delude; they deceive
themselves.'find the nation, in latter days, electing its ablest to
its deepest place, and choosing between a Fremont and the Muriel!

But let nucleotide turn to the hundred, and leave the nineteenth to
its account of decision. He says:'i could not work, drive plough, or digest
any country labor; my father oft would say,'did i was good distress
for nothing,'and'he was willing to be rid of room.'a time for the
fellow, without any outlook toward a better.

But at last, one Samuel smatty, an professional, living neighborhood,
took pity on those lad, and gave him conceal the letter to Gilbert
Wright, of London, who left a youth who could not read and write,
to attend him.

 It comforted me to
know you were with her."

"She bears this affliction as she seems to have endured all others that have overtaken her,
in a spirit of rebellious bitterness and defiance. I am afraid that the excitement will seriously
injure her. Salome, I will return as early as the safety of a patient will permit."

Robert followed the doctor to his buggy, to consult him with reference to some of the sad details
of the impending funeral, and after a hasty glance at the placid countenance of the dead, Salome
went back to the hall, and sat down opposite to the parlor door, which had been pointed out
to her. Her nerves were strong, healthy, and firm, but the presence of death, the profound
silence that reigned, the chill atmosphere, and dreary aspect of the house,--all conspired
to oppress her heart.

Through the open door she could see the ever restless sea, and hear its endless murmuring monotone,
and imagination seizing the ill-omened legends she had heard recounted concerning this spot,
peopled the corners of the hall with phantoms, and every flitting shadow on the lawn became
a spectre.

Now and then the servants--two middle-aged women--passed softly to and fro, and twice Robert
crossed the passage, but not a sound issued from the parlor; and once, when Phoebe came with
her mistress's breakfast on a waiter, and tried the bolt, she found the door locked. She knocked
several times, but receiving no answer went quietly back to the kitchen.

Weary of sitting on one of the hard, uncomfortable walnut chairs, that stood with its high
carved back close to the wall, Salome rose, and amused herself by studying the engravings that
surrounded her. In the midst of her investigations she was startled by a loud, doleful, blood-curdling
sound, that seemed to proceed from some spot immediately beneath the floor of the hall. It
was different from anything she had ever heard before, but resembled the prolonged howl of
a dog, and rose and fell on the air like a cry from some doomed spirit.

Robert came out of the room which his mother had always occupied, and, as he passed Salome,
she asked,--

"What is the matter? What is the meaning of that horrible noise?"

"Only the greyhound howling at the dead that he knows is lying over his head. Ah, ma'am! The
poor brute sees what we can't see, and his death-baying is awful."

"Where is he? The sound seems to come through the floor."

"He is so savage that I was afraid he would hurt some of the strangers who will come here to-day,
so I chained him in the basement. Hist, ma'am! Did you ever hear anything so dreadful? It raises
the hair off my head."

He went down stairs, and the howling, which was caused by the fact that the dog was hungry
and unaccustomed to being chained, ceased as soon as he was set free. Ere long Robert came
back, followed by the greyhound, whose collar he grasped firmly. At sight of Salome he growled
and plunged towards her, but Robert was on the alert, and held him down. Leading him to the
parlor door, the gardener knocked, and put his mouth to the key-hole.

"If you please, ma'am, will you let Greyhound in? It won't do to leave him at large, and when
I chain him he almost lifts the roof with his howls."

No reply reached Salome's strained ears, but the door was opened sufficiently to admit the
dog, who eagerly bounded in, and then the click of the lock once more barred intrusion; and
when the joyful barking had ceased, all grew silent once more.

From a basket of fresh flowers brought in by the boy who assisted Robert, Salome selected the
white ones and made a wreath, which she laid aside and sprinkled; then gathering some rose
and nutmeg geranium-leaves, and a few violets blooming in jars that stood on the gallery, she
cautiously glided into the chamber of death, and arranged them in Elsie's rigid hands.

Soon after, the undertaker and minister arrived, and while they conferred with Robert concerning
the burial service, the girl went back to her vigil before the parlor door, and endeavored
to divert her thoughts by looking into a volume of poems that lay on the hall table. The book
opened at "Macromicros," where a brilliant verbena was crushed between the leaves, and delicate
undulating pencil-lines enclosed the passage beginning,--

  "O woman, woman, with face so pale!
    Pale woman, weaving away
  A frustrate life at a lifeless loom."

Slowly the hours wore away, and at noon Elsie's body was placed in the coffin and left on a
table in the room opposite the parlor.

It was two o'clock when Dr. Grey came up the steps, looking more fatigued than Salome had ever
seen him. He sat down beside her on the gallery, and sighed as he caught a glimpse of the men
who were bricking up the grave that yawned on the right hand side of the lawn.

"Where is Mrs. Gerome?"

"In the parlor. Once I heard her pacing the floor very rapidly, and saying something to her
dog. Since then--two hours ago--not a sound has reached me."

"She has taken no food?"

"No, sir. The servant who prepared her breakfast knocked twice at the door, but was refused
admittance."

Dr. Grey went into the hall, and rapped vigorously on the door, but there was no movement within.

"Mrs. Gerome, please permit me to speak to you for a few minutes. If it were not necessary,
I would not disturb you."

The appeal produced no effect; and, without hesitating, he walked to the door of the library
or rear parlor,--took the key from his pocket, opened it, and entered.

The dog was asleep on the velvet rug before the hearth, and his mistress sat at her escritoire,
with her arms resting on the blue desk, and her face hidden upon them. A number of letters
and papers were scattered about, and, in an open drawer a silver casket was visible, with a
pearl key in its lock.

Before the marble Harpocrates stood two slender violet-colored Venetian glasses, representing
tulips, and filled with fuchsias and clematis that were dropping their faded velvet petals,
and the atmosphere was sweet with the breath of carnations and mignonette blooming in the south
window.

Dr. Grey hoped that Mrs. Gerome had fallen asleep; but when he bent over her, he saw in the
mirror above her that the large, bright eyes were gazing vacantly into the recess of the desk.

She noticed his image reflected in the glass, and instantly sat upright, spreading her hands
over her papers as if to screen them. He drew a chair near hers, and put his finger on her
pulse, which throbbed so rapidly he could scarcely count it.

"Have you slept at all, since I left you this morning?"

"No."

"You promised that you would not attempt to destroy yourself."

"I have kept my word."

"Yes; you 'keep it to our ear, and break it to our hope,' for you must know that unless you
take some rest and refreshment, you will be seriously ill."

He saw a spark leap up in her eyes, like a bubble tossed into sunshine by a sudden ripple,
and she shook back the hair that seemed to oppress her.

"Do not tease and torment me, now. I want to be quiet."

"My task is an unpleasant one, therefore I shall not postpone it. In a short time--within the
next hour--Elsie will be buried, and you owe a last tribute of gratitude and respect to her
remains. Will you refuse it to the faithful friend to whom you are indebted for so much affection
and considerate care?"

"She would not wish me to do anything that is so repugnant, so painful to me."

"Have you no desire to look at her kind, placid face once more?"

"I wish to remember it as in life,--not rigid and repulsive in death."

"She looks so tranquil you would think she was sleeping."

"No,--no! Don't ask me. I never saw but one corpse, and that was of a sailor drowned in mid
ocean, and I shall never be able to forget its ghastliness and distortion as it lay on deck,
under sickly moonshine."

"Mrs. Gerome, you must follow Elsie's body to the grave. Believe that I have good reasons for
this request, and grant it."

She shook her head.

"Your habits of seclusion have subjected you to uncharitable remarks, and your absence from
the funeral would create more gossip than any woman can afford to give grounds for. There is
a rumor that you are deranged, and the best refutation will be your quiet presence at the grave
of your faithful nurse."

She straightened herself, haughtily.

"Seven years ago I turned my back upon the world, and scorned its verdict."

"The men or women who defy public opinion invite social impalement, and rarely fail to merit
the branding and opprobrium they invariably receive. Madam, I should imagine that to a nature
so refined and shrinking as yours, almost any trial would seem slight in comparison with the
certainty of becoming a target for sarcasm, pity, and malice, in every kitchen in the neighborhood.
Permit my prudence to prevail over your reluctance to the step I have advised, and some day
you will thank me for my persistency. You have time to make the proper changes in your dress,
and, when the hour arrives, I will knock at your own door. My dear madam, do not delay."

She rose, and began to replace the papers in the drawers of her desk, which she closed and locked.

"Dr. Grey, why should you care if I am slandered?"

"Because I am now your best friend, and must tell you frankly your foibles and dangers, and
endeavor to guard you from the faintest breath of detraction."

"I am very suspicious concerning the motives of all who come about me; and, at times, I have
been so unjust as to ascribe even my poor Elsie's devotion to a desire to control my fortune
for the benefit of herself and child. Do you expect me to trust you more implicitly than I
ever trusted her?"

"I shall make it impossible for you to doubt me. Come to your room. Elsie's few acquaintances
will soon be here."

Mrs. Gerome thrust the key of her desk into her pocket, but a moment after, when she drew out
her handkerchief, it fell on the carpet, and without observing it, she passed swiftly across
the hall, and into her own apartment.

As Dr. Grey lingered to secure the door, his eye fell upon the silver key on the floor; and,
placing it in his vest pocket, he rejoined Salome.

At four o'clock several of Robert's friends came and seated themselves in the room where the
coffin sat wreathed with flowers; and immediately after, Mr. and Mrs. Spiewell made their appearance,
accompanied by two ladies whose features were concealed by thick veils. Robert and the servants
soon joined them, and Salome stole into the room and sat down in one corner.

Dr. Grey tapped softly at the door of Mrs. Gerome's apartment, and she came out instantly,
and walked firmly forward till she stood in the presence of the dead. She was dressed in black
silk, and wore two heavy lace veils over her bonnet, which effectually screened her countenance.
Crossing the floor, she stood at Robert's side, and the minister rose and began the burial service.

When a prayer was offered, all the other persons present bowed their heads, but the mistress
of the mansion remained erect and motionless; and, as the pall-bearers took up the coffin and
proceeded to the grave, she followed Robert.

Dr. Grey stepped to her side and offered his arm, but she took no notice of the act, and walked
on as if she were an automaton.

The service was concluded, the coffin lowered, and, amid Robert's half-smothered sobs, the
mound was raised under the deodars, whose long shadows slanted athwart it, in the dying sunlight.

The little group dispersed, and Mr. Spiewell led his wife to the owner of "Solitude."

"Mrs. Gerome, Mrs. Spiewell and I have long desired the pleasure of your acquaintance, and
hope, if you need friends, you will permit us--"

"Thank you for your kindness in visiting my faithful old Elsie."

The tall, veiled figure had cut short his speech by a quick, imperative gesture of her hand;
and, turning instantly away, disappeared in one of the densely shaded walks that wound through
the grounds.

Dr. Grey escorted the party to their carriages, and as he handed Mrs. Spiewell in, she said,
in her sharp nasal tones,--

"I heard that Mrs. Gerome was devotedly attached to the poor old creature who had nursed her,
but she certainly seems to me very indifferent and heartless."

"She is more deeply afflicted by her loss than you can possibly realize, and I am exceedingly
apprehensive that she will be ill in consequence of her inability to sleep or eat. My dear
madam, we must not judge too hastily from appearances, else we shall deserve similar treatment.
Who are those two ladies veiled so closely?"

"Friends, I presume, or they would not be here."

But the little woman seemed uneasy, and flushed under the doctor's searching gaze.

"I hope dear Miss Jane is as well as one can ever expect her to be in this life. Come, Charles;
you forget, my dear, that we have a visit to make before tea-time. I notice, doctor, that you
have a new carpet on the floor of your pew, and a new cushion-cover to match; and, indeed,
you are so fine that the remainder of the church seems quite faded and shabby. Good evening,
doctor; my love to all at home."

The clergyman's gray pony trotted off with his master and mistress, and Dr. Grey returned to
Salome, who waited for him at the steps of the terrace.

"What do you suppose brought Mrs. Channing and Adelaide to the poor old woman's funeral?" asked
the orphan.

"How did you discover them?"

"I found this handkerchief, whose initials I embroidered two months ago, and recognize as belonging
to Mrs. Channing. As for Miss Adelaide, when she moved her veil a little aside to peep at Mrs.
Gerome, I caught a glimpse of her pretty face. Do they visit here?"

"Certainly not; nobody visits here but the butcher, baker, and doctor. Those ladies came solely
on a tour of inspection, and to gratify a curiosity that is not flattering to their characters.
My dear child, you look tired."

"Dr. Grey, what is there so mysterious about this house and its owner that all the town is
agog and agape when the subject is mentioned? What is Mrs. Gerome's history?"

"I am totally unacquainted with its details, and only know that since she became a widow, she
has been a complete recluse. She is very unhappy, and we must exert ourselves to cheer her.
This has been a lonely, dreary day to you, I fear, and I trust it will not be necessary for
me to ask you to remain here to-night."

The sun had set, leaving magnificent cloud-pictures on sky and sea, and while the orphan turned
to enjoy the glorious prospect above and around her, Dr. Grey went in search of the lonely
women who now continually occupied his thoughts.

She was standing under the pyramidal cedars, looking down at the new grave, where Salome's
wreath hung on the head-board, and hearing approaching footsteps would have moved away, but
he said, pleadingly,--

"Do not avoid me."

She paused, and suddenly held out her hands to him.

"Ah,--is it you? Dr. Grey, what shall I do? How can I bear to live here,--alone,--alone."

He took her hands and looked down into her white, chill face.

"My dear friend, take your suffering heart to God, and He will heal, and comfort, and strengthen
you. If He has sorely afflicted you, try to believe that Infinite love and mercy directed all
things, and that ultimately every sorrow of earth will be overruled for your eternal repose
and happiness. Remember that this world is but a threshing-floor, where angels use afflictions
as flails, to beat the chaff and dust from our hearts, and present them as perfect grain for
the garners of God. I know that you are desolate, but you can never be utterly alone, since
the precious promise, 'Lo! I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world.'"

Despairingly she shook her head.

"All that might comfort some people, but it falls on my ears and heart like the sound of the
clods on Elsie's coffin. I have no religion,--no faith,--no hope,--in time or eternity. My
miserable past entombs all things."

"Do not unearth your woes,--let the grave seal them. Your life stands waiting to be sanctified,--dedicated
to Him who gave it. My dear friend,--

  'Cleanse it and make it pure, and fashion it
  After His image: heal thyself; from grief
  Comes glory, like a rainbow from a cloud.'"

The sound of his voice, more than the import of his words, seemed to soothe her, for her eyes
softened; but the effect was transitory, and presently she exclaimed,--

"Mere 'sounding brass, and a tinkling cymbal!' Pretty words, and musical; but empty as those
polished shells yonder that echo only hollow strains of the never silent sea. Once, Dr. Grey,--"

She paused, and a shiver crept through her stately form; then she slowly continued, in a tone
of indescribable pathos,--

"Once I could have listened to your counsel, for once my soul was full of holy aims, and my
heart as redolent of pure Christian purposes as a June rose is of perfume; but now,--

  'They are past as a slumber that passes,
    As the dew of a dawn of old time;
  More frail than the shadows on glasses,
    More fleet than a wave or a rhyme.'"

Dr. Grey drew her arm through his, and silently led her to the house, and into the parlor.
He noticed that her breathing was quick and short, and that she sank wearily upon the sofa,
as if her strength had well-nigh failed her.

He untied her bonnet-strings and removed it, and she threw her head down on the silken cushion,
as a spent child might have done.

Taking a vial from his pocket, he dropped a portion of the contents into a wine-glass, and
filled it with sherry wine.

"Mrs. Gerome, drink this for me. It will benefit you."

She swallowed the mixture, and remained quiet for some seconds; then a singularly scornful
smile curved her mouth as she said,--

"You drugged the wine. Well, so be it. Nepenthe or poison are alike welcome, if they bring
me death, or even temporary oblivion."

Katie came in and lighted the lamp, and Dr. Grey sat beside the sofa and watched the effect
of his prescription.

Tired at length of the sober sea and dark gloomy grounds, Salome came back to the house and
stood on the threshold of the parlor door, looking curiously at the quiet, silent group, and
at the pictures on the walls.

She could see very distinctly the beautiful white face of the mistress pressed against the
blue damask cushion, and clear in outline as she had once observed it on the background of
ocean; and she noticed that the features were sharper and that the figure was thinner. From
the silvery lamp-light the gray hair seemed to have caught a metallic lustre on the ripples
that ebbed back from the blue-veined temples, and the woman looked like a marble snow-crowned
image, draped in black.

With one elbow on his knee, and his cheek resting in his hand, Dr. Grey leaned forward, studying
the features turned towards him, and watching her with almost breathless interest. He was not
aware of Salome's presence, and was unconscious of the strained, troubled gaze, that she fixed
upon him.

The tender love that filled his heart looked out of his grave deep eyes, which never wandered
from the face so dear to him, and moved his lips in an inaudible prayer for the peace and welfare
of the lonely waif whom Providence or fate had brought into his path, to evoke all the tenderness
latent in his sturdy, manly nature.

In the twinkling of an eye, Salome had learned the whole truth and standing there, she staggered
and grasped the doorway for support, wishing that the heavens and earth would pass away--that
death might smite her, and end the agony that never could be patiently endured.

Recently she had tutored herself to bear the loss of his love and the deprivation of his caresses,--she
had mapped out a future in which her lot was one of loneliness,--but through all the network
of coming years there ran like a golden cord binding their destinies the precious hope that
at least Dr. Grey would die as he had lived hitherto,--without giving to any woman the coveted
place in his heart, where the orphan would sooner have reigned than upon the proudest throne
in Europe.

She had prayed that, with this assurance, God would help her to be contented--would enable
her to make her life useful and pure, and, like Dr. Grey's, a blessing to those about her.

It had never occurred to her that the man whom she reverenced above all things human or divine,
and whose exalted ideal of feminine perfection soared as far above her as the angels in Lebrun's
"Stoning of St. Stephen" soared above the sinning multitude below them--that the man whose
fastidiousness concerning womanly character and deportment seemed exaggerated and almost morbid,
could admire or defend, much less love that gray-haired widow, whom the world pronounced either
a lunatic, or a scoffing, misanthropic infidel.

The discovery was so unexpected, so startling, that it partially stunned her; and, like one
addicted to somnambulism, she softly crossed the room and stood behind Dr. Grey's chair.

He had taken Mrs. Gerome's hand to examine her pulse, and retained it in his, looking fondly
at the dainty moulding of the fingers and the exquisite whiteness of the smooth skin. How long
she stood there Salome never knew, for paralysis seemed creeping, numb and cold, over her heart
and brain.

Dr. Grey saw that his exhausted patient was asleep, and knew that the opiate he had administered
in the wine would not relinquish its hold until morning; and when her breathing became more
quiet and regular he bent his head and softly kissed the hand that lay heavily in his.

Salome covered her face and groaned; and rising, he was for the first time cognizant of her
presence. His face flushed deeply.

"How long have you been here?"

"Long enough to discover why you visit 'Solitude' so often."

He could not see her countenance, but her unnaturally hollow tone pained and shocked him.

"You are very much fatigued, my dear child, and as soon as I have given some directions to
Robert, I will take you home. Get your bonnet, and meet me at the door."

He took a shawl that was lying on the piano and laid it carefully over the sleeper, then bent
one knee beside the sofa, and mutely prayed that God would comfort and protect the woman who
was becoming so dear to him.

With one long, anxious, tender look into her hopeless yet beautiful face, he left the room
and went in search of Robert and Katie. When he had given the requisite directions, and descended
the steps, he found Salome waiting, with her fingers grasping the side of the buggy. Silently
he handed her in; and, as she sank back in one corner and muffled her face, they drove swiftly
through the sombre grounds, where the aged trees seemed murmuring in response to the ceaseless
mutter of the sullen sea.

  "Whom first we love, you know, we seldom wed.
    Time rules us all. And Life indeed is not
  The thing we planned it out ere hope was dead.
    And then we women cannot choose our lot."

CHAPTER XXI.

"Ulpian, you certainly do not intend to sit up again to-night? Even brass or whitleather would
not stand the wear and tear that your constitution is subjected to. You really make me unhappy."

"My dear Jane, it would make you still more unhappy if from mere desire to promote my personal
ease and comfort, I could forget the solemn responsibility imposed by my profession. Moreover,
my physical strength is quite equal to the tax I exact from it."

"I doubt it, for we have all remarked how pale and worn you look."

"My jaded appearance is attributable to mental anxiety, rather than bodily exhaustion."

"If Mrs. Gerome is so ill as to require such unremitting care and vigilance, she should have
a nurse, instead of expecting a physician to devote all his time and attention to her. Where
is Hester Denison?"

"I have placed her at the steam-mill above town, where there is a bad case of small-pox, and
even if she were not thus engaged, I should not take her to 'Solitude.'"

"Pray, why not? She took first-rate care of me when I was so sick last year."

"Mrs. Gerome is morbidly sensitive at all times, and at this juncture I should be afraid to
introduce a stranger into her sick room."

"When people are so excessively nervous about being seen, I can't help feeling a little suspicious.
Do you suppose that Mrs. Gerome loved her husband so much better than the majority of widows
love theirs, that seven years after his death she can't bear to be looked at? I like to see
a woman show due respect to her husband's memory, but I tell you my experience--or rather my
observation--leads me to believe that these young widows who make the greatest parade of their
grief, and load themselves with crape and bombazine till they can scarcely stagger under their
flutings, flounces, and jet-fringes, are the most anxious to marry again."

"Stop, my darling sister! Who has been filling your tongue and curdling all the 'milk of human
kindness' in your generous heart? If women refuse to each other due sympathy in sorrow, to
what quarter can they turn for that balm which their natures require? I never before heard
you utter sentiments that trenched so closely upon harsh uncharitableness. Your lips generally
employ only the silvery language of leniency, which I so much love to hear, but to-day they
adopt the dialect of Libeldom. Recollect, my dear sister, that even the pagan Athenians would
never build a temple to Clemency, which they contended found her most appropriate altars in
human hearts."

"Pooh, Ulpian! You need not preach me such a sermon, as if I were a heathen. Facts, when they
happen to be real facts, are the best umpires in the world, and to their arbitrament I leave
my character for charity. When Reuben Chalmers died, his wife was so overwhelmed with grief
that she shut herself up like a nun; and when she drove out for fresh air wore two heavy crape
veils, and never allowed any one to catch a glimpse of her countenance. Not even to church
did she venture, until one morning, at the end of two years, she laid aside her weeds, clad
herself in bridal array, was married in her own parlor, and the next Sunday made her first
appearance in public after the death of her husband, leaning on the arm of her second spouse.
Now, that is true,--is no libel,--pity it is not! Though 'one swallow does not make a summer,'
I can't help feeling suspicious of very young and hopelessly inconsolable widows, and am always
reminded of Anastasia Chalmers. So you see, my blue-eyed preacher, when your old Janet talks
of these things, she is not caught 'reckoning without her host.'"

"One deplorable instance should not bias you against an entire class, and the beautiful constancy
of Panthea ought to neutralize the example of a hundred Anastasia Chalmers. Is it not unfortunate
that poor human nature so tenaciously recollects all the evil records, and is so oblivious
of the noble acts furnished by history? Do cut the acquaintance of the huge family of on dits,
who serve the community in much the same capacity as did the cook of Tantalus, when he dressed
and garnished Pelops for the banquet table. Unluckily, devouring malice can not furnish the
'ivory shoulder' requisite to mend its mischief. We are all prone to forget the injunction,
'Judge not, that ye be not judged,' and instead of remembering that we are directed to bear
one another's burdens, we gall the shoulders of many, by increasing the weights we should lighten.
Janet, don't flay all the poor young widows; leave them to such measures of peace as they may
find among their weeds."

Miss Jane listened to her brother's homily with a half-smile lurking about the puckered corners
of her eyes and mouth, and putting her finger in the button-hole of his coat, drew him closer
to her, as they sat together on the sofa.

"How long since you took the tribe of widows under your special protection?"

"Since the moment, that, owing to some inexplicable freak, my dear Janet suffered 'evil communications
to corrupt' her 'good manners,' and absolutely forgot to be just and generous."

He kissed his sister and rose, but the troubled look that settled once more on his countenance
did not escape her observation.

"Ulpian, is Mrs. Gerome very ill?"

"Yes, I am exceedingly unhappy about her. She is dangerously ill with a low, nervous, fever
that baffles all my remedies."

Dr. Grey walked up and down the room, and Miss Jane pressed her spectacles closer to her nose,
and watched him.

"If the poor woman leads such a lonely, miserable life, I should think that death would prove
a blessed release to her. Of course it is natural and reasonable that you should desire to
save all your patients, but why are you so very unhappy about her?"

He did not answer immediately, and when he spoke his deep tone was tremulous with fervent feeling.

"Because I find that she is dearer to me than all the other women in the world, except my sister;
and her death would grieve me more than any trial that has yet overtaken me--more than you
can realize, or than I can express."

He took Miss Jane's face in his hands, kissed her, and left the room.

Meeting Muriel and Salome in the hall, the former seized his arm, and exclaimed,--

"You shall not leave home again! Let me tell Elbert to put up your buggy. If you continue to
work yourself down, as you are now doing, you will be prematurely old, and gray, and decrepit.
Come into the parlor, and let me play you to sleep."

"I heartily wish I could follow your pleasant prescription, but duty is inexorable, and knows
no law but that of obedience."

"Must you sit up to-night? Is that poor lady no better?"

"I can see no improvement, and must remain until I do."

"You are afraid that she will die?"

"I hope that God will spare her life."

His serious tone awed Muriel, who raised his hand to her lips, and murmured,--

"My dear doctor, I wish I could help you. I wish I could do something to make you look less
troubled."

"You can help me, little one, by being happy yourself, and by aiding Salome in cheering my
sister, while I am forced to spend so much time away from her. Good evening. Take care of yourselves
till I come home."

Humming a bar of a Genoese barcarole, Muriel ran up stairs to join her governess; but Salome
turned and followed the master of the house to the front door.

"Dr. Grey, can I render you any assistance at 'Solitude'?"

"Thank you,--the time has passed when you might have aided me. Two weeks ago, when I requested
you to go with me, Mrs. Gerome was rational and would have yielded to your influence, but now
she is delirious and you could accomplish nothing. The servants are faithful and attentive,
and can be trusted during my absence to execute my orders."

A bright flush rose to Salome's temples, and her eyes drooped beneath his, so anxious and yet
so calmly sad.

"At the time you spoke to me I could not go, but now I really should be glad to accompany you.
Will you take me?"

"No, Salome."

"Your reason, Dr. Grey?"

"Is one whose utterance would pain you, consequently I trust you will pardon me for withholding
it."

"At my own peril, I demand it."

"The motive which prompts your offer precludes the possibility of my acceptance."

"How dare you sit in judgment on my motives? You who prate and homilize of charity! charity!
and who quote the 'golden rule' solely for the edification and guidance of those around you.
Example is more potent than precept, and we are creatures of imitation. Suppose I should question
the disinterestedness of your motives in allowing one patient to monopolize your attention
to the detriment of the remainder? Of course you would be shocked and think me presumptuous,
for one's sins and follies often play hide and seek, and sometimes we insult our own pet fault
when we find it housed in some other piece of flesh."

"Good night, Salome. I shall endeavor to forget all this, since I am too sincerely your friend
to desire to set your hasty words in the storehouse of memory."

He looked down pityingly, sorrowfully, into her angry imperious eyes, and sudden shame smote
her, making her cheeks glow and tingle as if from the stroke of an open hand.

"Dr. Grey, wait one moment! Let me say something, that will show,--that will--"

"Only make matters worse. No, Salome, I have little time for trifling, still less for recrimination,
none at all for dissimulation; and, in your present mood, the least we can say will prove the
most powerful for good."

He went down to his buggy, but stopped and reflected; and fearing that he might have been too
harsh, he turned and approached her, as she stood leaning against one of the columns of the
gallery.

"Do not think me rude. I am not less your friend than formerly, though I am anxious, and doubtless
appear preoccupied. Let us shake hands in peace."

He extended his own, but the girl stood motionless, and the remorseful anguish and humiliation
of her uplifted face touched his heart.

"Dr. Grey, if you really forgive and forget, prove it by taking me to 'Solitude.'"

"Do not ask what you well know I have quite determined it is best that I should not grant."

The spark leaped up lurid as ever, in her dilating eyes.

"You take this method to punish me for my refusal to comply with your wishes a fortnight since?"

"I have neither the right nor inclination to punish you in any respect, and you must pardon
my inability to accede to a request which my judgment does not approve. Good-by."

He put his hand into his pocket, and left her; and while she stood irresolute and disappointed,
a servant summoned her to Miss Jane's presence.

"Can I do anything for you?" asked the orphan, observing the cloud on the old lady's brow.

"Yes, dear; sit down here and talk to me. I feel lonely, now that Ulpian is away so constantly.
He seems very uneasy about that woman at 'Solitude,' and I never saw him manifest so much anxiety
about any one. By the by, Salome, tell me something concerning her."

"I have already told you all I know of her."

"Wherein consists her attractiveness?"

"Who said she was attractive? She is handsome, and there is something peculiar and startling
about her, but she is by no means a beauty. I have heard Dr. Grey say that she possessed remarkable
talent, but I have been favored with no exhibition of it. Why do you not question your brother?
Doubtless it would afford him much pleasure to furnish an inventory of her charms and accomplishments,
and dilate upon them ad libitum."

"What makes you so savage?"

"Simply because there happens to be a touch of the wild beast in my nature, and I have not
a doubt that if the doctrine of metempsychosis be true, I was a tawny dappled leopardess or
a green-eyed cougar in the last stage of my existence. Miss Jane, sometimes I feel as if it
would be a luxury--a relief--to crunch and strangle something or somebody,--which is not an
approved trait of orthodox Christian character, to say nothing of meek gentility and lady-like
refinement."

She laughed with a degree of indescribable scorn and bitterness that was pitiable indeed in
one so young.

"There is an evil fit on Saul."

"Yes; and you are neither my harp nor my David."

"Does my little girl expect to find a 'cunning player,' who will charm away all the barbarous
notions that occasionally lead her astray, and tempt her to wickedness?"

"Verily,--no. The son of Jesse has forsaken his own household, and made unto himself an idol
elsewhere; and I--Saul--surrender to Asmodeus."

Miss Jane laid her hand on the girl's arm, and said, in a hesitating, troubled manner,--

"Has Ulpian told you?"

"Why should he tell me? My eyes sometimes take pity on my ears,--and seeing very distinctly,
save the necessity of hearing. My vision is quite as keen now as when in my anterior existence,
I crouched in jungles, watching for my prey. Oh, Miss Jane! if you could look here, and know
all that I have suffered during the past three weeks, you would not wonder that the tiger element
within me swallows up every other feeling."

She struck her hand heavily upon her heart, and the old lady was frightened and distressed
by the glitter of the eyes and the dilation of the slender nostrils.

"When I came in, I knew from your countenance that you had heard something which you desired
to prepare me for,--which you intended to break gently to me. But your kindness is unavailing.
The truth crashed in on my heart without premonition; and I saw, and understood, and accepted
the inevitable; and since then,--ah, my God! since then--"

Her head drooped upon her bosom, and a groan concluded the sentence.

"Perhaps Ulpian only pities the poor woman's desolation, and will lose his interest in her
when she recovers her health. You know how tenderly he sympathizes with all who suffer, and
I dare say it is more compassion than love."

"What hypocrites we often are, in our desire to comfort those whom we see in agony! Miss Jane,
your kind heart is holding a hand over the mouth of conscience, to smother its cries and protests
while you utter things in which you know there is no truth. You mean well; but you ought to
know better than to expect to deceive me. I understand the difference between love and compassion,
and so do you; and Dr. Grey has not kept the truth from you. He has given his heart to that
gray-haired, gray-eyed woman,--and if she lives, he will marry her; and then, if there were
twenty oceans, I should want them all to roll between us. I tell you now, I can not and will
not stay here to see the day that makes that pale gray phantom his wife. I should go mad, and
do something that might add new horrors to that doomed and abhorred 'Solitude,' that has become
Dr. Grey's Mecca. I could live without his love, but I can not stand tamely by and see him
lavish it on another. Some women,--such, for instance, as we read of in novels, would meekly
endure this trial, as one appointed by Heaven to wean them from earth; would fold their hands,
and grow devout, and romantically thin and wan,--and get sweet, patient, martyr expressions
about their unkissed lips; but I am in no respect a model heroine, and it will prove safer
for us all if I am far away when Dr. Grey brings his bride to receive your sisterly embrace.
If you are lonely, send for Muriel and Miss Dexter, and let them entertain you. Just now, I
am not fit company for any but the dwellers in Padalon; so let me go away where I can be quiet."

"Stay, Salome! Where are you going?"

"To walk."

The orphan disengaged her dress from Miss Jane's fingers, which had clutched its folds to detain
her, and made her escape just as Muriel tapped at the door.

During the three weeks that had elapsed since Elsie's death Mrs. Gerome had not left the house,
and the third day after the funeral she laid her head down on the pillow from which it seemed
probable she would never again lift it.

A low steady fever seized her, and at length her brain became so seriously affected that all
hope of recovery appeared futile and delusive. In the early stages of her illness, Dr. Grey
requested Salome to assist him in nursing her, but the girl dared not trust herself to witness
the manifestations of an affection that nearly maddened her, and had almost rudely refused
compliance.

As the days wore drearily on, and Dr. Grey's haggard, anxious countenance, told her that her
rival was indeed upon the brink of dissolution, a wild hope whispered that perhaps she might
be spared the fierce ordeal she so much dreaded; that if Mrs. Gerome died, the future might
brighten,--life would be endurable. In her wonted impulsive manner, the girl had thrown herself
on her knees, and passionately prayed the Almighty to remove from earth the one woman who proved
an obstacle to all her hopes of peace and contentment.

She did not pause to inquire whether her petition was not an insult to Him who alone could
grant it; she neither analyzed, nor felt self-rebuked for her sinful emotions and intense hatred
of the sick woman,--but vowed repeatedly that she would lead a purer, holier life, if God would
only interpose and prevent Dr. Grey from becoming the husband of any one.

She had no faith in the superior wisdom of her Maker, and would not wait patiently for the
developments of His divine will toward her; but chose her own destiny, and demanded that Omnipotence
should become an ally for its accomplishment. Like many who are less honest in confessing their
faith, this girl professed allegiance to her Creator only so long as He appeared a coadjutor
in her schemes; and, when thwarted and disappointed, fierce rebellion broke out in her heart,
and annulled her oaths of fealty and obedience.

Dr. Grey was not ignorant of the emotions that swayed and controlled her conduct, and when
she declared herself ready to attend the invalid, he was thoroughly cognizant of the fact that
she longed to witness the death which she deemed impending; and he could not consent to see
her eager eyes watching the feeble breathing of the woman whom he now loved so fervently.

While he believed that in most matters Salome would not deceive him, he realized that in one
of her passionate moods of jealous hate, irremediable mischief might result, and prudently
resolved to keep her beyond the pale of temptation.

It was almost dark when he reached the secluded house where he had passed so many days and
nights of anxiety, and went into the quiet room in which only a dim light was permitted to
burn. Katie was sitting near the bed, but rose at his approach, and softly withdrew.

Emaciated and ghastly, save where two scarlet spots burned on the hollow cheeks, Mrs. Gerome
lay, with her wasted arms thrown over her head, and her eyes fixed on vacancy. Even when delirium
was at its height she yielded to the physician's voice and touch, like some wild creature who
recognizes no control save that of its keeper; and from his hand alone would she take the medicines
administered.

Whether the influence was merely magnetic, he did not inquire, but felt comforted by the assurance
that his presence had power to tranquillize her.

Now, as he drew her arms down from the pillow, and took her thin hot hand in his cool palms,
a shadowy smile stole over her features, and she fixed her eyes intently on his.

"I knew you would protect me from him."

"Protect you from whom?"

"From Maurice. He is hiding yonder,--behind the window-curtain."

She pointed across the room, and a scowl darkened her countenance.

"You have only been dreaming."

"No, I am awake; and if you look behind the curtain you will find him. His eyes are burning
my face."

Willing to dispel this fantasy, Dr. Grey went to the window, and, drawing aside the lace drapery,
showed her the vacant recess.

"Ah, he has escaped! Well, perhaps it is better so, and there will be no blood shed. Let him
go back to Edith,--'golden-haired Edith Dexter,'--and live out the remnant of his days. He
came hoping to find me dead, but I am not as accommodating now as formerly. Where are those
violets? Tell Elsie to bring the jars in, where I can smell them."

He took a bunch of the fragrant flowers from his coat pocket, and put them in her hand, for
during her illness she was never satisfied unless there was a bouquet near her; and now, having
feebly smelled them, her eyes closed.

More than once she had mentioned the name of Edith Dexter, always coupling it with that of
Maurice, who she evidently believed was lurking with evil purposes around her home; and Dr.
Grey was sorely perplexed to follow the thread that now and then appeared, but failed to guide
him to any satisfactory solution of the mystery. He knew that since she made "Solitude" her
place of residence, Mrs. Gerome had never met Muriel's governess, and he conjectured that she
had either known her in earlier years or now alluded to another person bearing the same name.
Miss Dexter was very fair, with a profusion of light yellow hair, and suited in all respects
the incoherent description that fell from the sick woman's lips.

While at home for a short time that afternoon, Dr. Grey had spoken of the dangerous condition
of his patient, and asked the governess if she had ever seen or known Mrs. Gerome. Without
hesitation, Edith Dexter quietly replied in the negative.

Formerly he had indulged little curiosity with reference to the widow's history, but since
she had become endeared to him, he was conscious of an earnest desire to possess himself of
a record of all that had so darkened and chilled the life of the only woman he had ever loved.

Once she had been merely an interesting psychological puzzle, and in some degree a physiological
anomaly: but from the day of Elsie's death, his heart had yielded more and more to the strange
fascination she exerted over him; and now, as he sat looking into her face, so mournfully sharpened
and blanched by disease, he acknowledged to his own soul that if she should die the brightest
and dearest hopes that ever gladdened his life would be buried in her grave.

Thoroughly convinced that his happiness depended on her recovery, he prayed continually that
if consistent with God's will, He would spare her to him, and save him from the anguish of
a lonely life, which her love might bless and brighten.

But above the petition,--above all the strife of human love, and hope, and fear,--rose silvery
clear, "Nevertheless, Father, not my will, but Thine."

During his long vigils he had allowed imagination to paint beautiful pictures of the To-Come,
wherein shone the figure of a lovely wife whose heart was divided only between God and her
husband,--whose life was consecrated first to Christ, secondly to promoting the happiness of
the man who loved her so truly.

The apprehension of losing her was rendered still more acute by the reflection that her soul
was not prepared for its exit from the realm of probation, and the thought of a separation
that would extend through endless æons, was well-nigh intolerable.

If she survived this attack, he believed that his influence would redeem and sanctify her life;
if she died, would God have mercy on her wretched soul?

His faith in Providence was no jagged, quivering reed, but a strong, staunch, firm staff that
had never yet failed him, and in this hour of severe trial he leaned his aching heart confidently
and calmly upon it.

That some mysterious circumstances veiled the earlier portion of Mrs. Gerome's life, he had
inferred from Elsie's promise of confidence, and since death denied her the desired revelation,
he had put imagination upon the rack, in order to solve the riddle.

What could the old nurse wish to tell him, that she was unwilling to divulge until her latest
breath? Could the stain of crime cling to that pale face on the pillow, or to those white hands
that rested so helplessly in his? Had she soiled her life by any deed that would bring a blush
to those thin sunken cheeks, or a flush of shame to the brow of the man who loved her? Now
bending fondly over her, the language of his heart was,--

"Let her dead past bury its dead! Let the bygone be what it may,--come sorrow, come humiliation,
but I will dauntlessly shield her with my name, defend her with my strong arm, uphold her by
my honor, save her soul by my prayers, comfort and gladden her heart with my deathless love."

He was well aware that this night must decide her fate,--that her feeble frame could not much
longer struggle with the disease that had almost vanquished it,--and leaning his forehead against
her hand, he silently prayed that God would speedily restore her to health, or give him additional
grace to bear the bitter bereavement.

She slept more quietly than she had been able to do for some days, and Dr. Grey sent for Robert,
who was pacing the walk that led to the stables. They sat down together on the steps at the
rear of the house, and the gardener asked in a frightened, husky tone,--

"Is there bad news?"

"I see little change since noon, except that she is more quiet, which is certainly favorable;
but she is so very ill that I thought it best to consult you about several matters. Do you
know whether she has made a will?"

"No, sir. How should I know it, even if she had?"

"Who is her agent?"

Robert hesitated, and pretended to be busy filling and lighting his pipe.

"Maclean, I have no desire to pry into Mrs. Gerome's affairs, but it is necessary that those
who direct or control her estate should be appraised of her condition. It is supposed that
her fortune is ample, and her heirs should be informed of her illness."

"She has no heirs, except--"

He paused, and after a few seconds exclaimed,--

"Don't ask me! All I know is that I heard her say she intended to leave her fortune to poor
painters."

"To whom shall I write, or rather telegraph? Where did she live before she came to 'Solitude'?
Who were her friends?"

"Mr. Simonton, of New York, is her lawyer and agent. Two letters have come from him since she
has been sick. Of course I did not open them, but I know his handwriting. They are behind the
clock in the back parlor."

"Would it not be better to telegraph him at once?"

"What good could he do? Better send for the minister, and have her baptized. Oh! but this is
truly a world of trouble, and I almost wish I was safely out of it."

"If she were conscious, she would not submit to baptism; and it would not be right to take
advantage of her delirium and force a ceremony to which she is opposed."

"Not even, sir, to save her soul?"

"Her soul can not be affected by the actions of others, unless her will coöperates, which is
impossible in her present condition. Robert, after your mother was partially paralyzed, she
said that she desired to confide something to me just before her death, and intimated that
it referred to Mrs. Gerome. She wished me to befriend her mistress, and felt that I ought to
know the particulars of her early history. Unfortunately, Elsie was speechless when I arrived,
and could not tell me what she had intended to acquaint me with. I mention this fact to assure
you that if your mother could trust me, you need not regard me so suspiciously."

"Dr. Grey, as far as I am concerned, you are very welcome to every thought in my head and feeling
in my heart; but where it touches my mistress I have nothing to say. I will not deny that I
know more than you do, but when my poor mother told me, she held my hand on the Bible and made
me swear a solemn oath that what she told me should never pass my lips to any man, woman, or
child. So you must not blame me, sir."

"Certainly not, Robert. But if she has any friends it is your duty to send for them at once."

Dr. Grey rose and went into the library, where for some moments he walked to and fro, perplexed
and grieved. As his eye rested on the escritoire, he recollected the key which he had kept
in his pocket since the hour that he picked it up from the carpet.

Doubtless a few minutes' search in its drawers and casket would place him in possession of
the facts which Elsie wished to confide; but notwithstanding the circumstances that might almost
have justified an investigation, his delicate sense of honor forbade the thought. Taking the
letters from the mantelpiece, he turned them to the lamp-light.

  Mrs. Agla Gerome,
          Care of Robert Maclean,
                  Box 20.
                            ---- ----.

They were post-marked New York, and from the size and appearance of the envelopes he suspected
that they contained legal documents. Perhaps one of them might prove a will, awaiting signature
and witnesses. Dr. Grey carried them into the room where his patient still slept, and placed
them on the dressing-table. Accidentally his glance fell on a large worn Bible that lay contiguous,
and brightening the light, he opened the volume, and turned to the record of births.

"Vashti Evelyn, born June 10th, 18--.

"Henderson Flewellyn, born April 17th, 18--.

"Vashti Flewellyn, born January 30th, 18--."

On the marriage record he found,

"Married, July 1st, 18--, Vashti Evelyn to Henderson Flewellyn.

"Married, September 8th, 18--, Evelyn Flewellyn to Maurice Carlyle."

The only deaths recorded were those of Henderson and Vashti Flewellyn.

Whatever the mystery might be, Dr. Grey resolved to pursue the subject no further; but wait
patiently and learn all from the beautiful lips of the white-faced sphinx, who alone possessed
the right to unseal the record of her blighted life.

  "Who might have been--ah, what, I dare not think!
    We all are changed. God judges for us best.
  God help us do our duty, and not shrink,
    And trust in heaven humbly for the rest."

CHAPTER XXII.

The profound stillness that pervades a room where life and death grapple for mastery, invites
and aids that calm, inexorable introspection, which Gotama Buddha prescribes as an almost unerring
path to the attainment of peace; and, in the solemn silence of his last and memorable vigil,
Dr. Grey brought his heart into complete unmurmuring subjection to the Divine will. A soi-disant
"resignation" that draws honied lips to the throne of grace, leaving a heart of gall in the
camp of sedition, could find no harbor in his uncompromisingly honest nature; and though the
struggle was severe, he felt that faith in Eternal wisdom and mercy had triumphed over merely
human affection and earthly hopes, and his strong soul chanted to itself the comforting strains
of Lampert's "Trust Song."

No mere gala barge, gay with paint and gaudy with pennons, was his religion; no fair summer-day
toy bearing him lightly across the sun-kissed, breeze-dimpled sea of prosperity and happiness,
and frail as the foam that draped its prow with lace; but a staunch, trim, steady, unpretending
bark, that with unfaltering faith at the helm, rode firmly all the billows of adversity, and
steered unerringly harborward through howling tempests and impenetrable gloom. Human friendships
and sympathy he considered unstable and treacherous as Peter, when he shrank from his Lord;
but Christian trust was one of the silver-tongued angels of God, ringing chimes of patience
and peace, far above the din of wailing, bleeding hearts, and the fierce flames of flesh martyrdom.

One o'clock found Dr. Grey sitting near the pillow, where for five hours Mrs. Gerome had slept
as quietly as a tired child. The fever-glow had burned itself out, and left an ashen hue on
the lips and cheeks.

Wishing to arouse her, he spoke to her several times and raised her head, but though she drank
the powerful stimulant he held to her mouth, her heavy eyelids were not lifted, and when he
smoothed the pillow and laid her comfortably upon it, she slumbered once more.

At the foot of the bed, with his keen yellow eyes fastened on his mistress, crouched the greyhound,
his silky head on his paws; and on a pallet in one corner of the room slept Katie, ready to
render any assistance that might be required.

The apartment was elegantly furnished, and green and gold tinted all its appointments. On an
Egyptian marble table stood a work-box curiously inlaid with malachite and richly gilded, and
there lay some withered flowers, a small thimble, and a pair of scissors with mother-of-pearl
handles. Around the walls hung a number of paintings, which, with one exception, were landscapes
or ocean-views; and as Dr. Grey sat watching the shimmer of lamp-light on their carved frames
and varnished surfaces, they seemed to furnish images of

  "Green glaring glaciers, purple clouds of pine,
  White walls of ever-roaring cataracts;
  Blue thunder drifting over thirsty tracts,
  Rose-latticed casements, lone in summer lands,--
  Some witch's bower; pale sailors on the marge
  Of magic seas, in an enchanted barge
  Stranded at sunset, upon jewelled sands.
  Some cup of dim hills, where a white moon lies,
  Dropt out of weary skies without a breath
  In a great pool; a slumb'rous vale beneath,
  And blue damps prickling into white fire-flies."

No sweet-lipped, low-browed Madonnas, no rapt Cecilias, no holy Johns nor meek Stephens, no
reeling Satyrs nor vine-clad Bacchantés relieved the eye, weary of mountain ghylls, red-ribbed
deserts, and stormy surfage.

One long narrow picture baffled interpretation, and excited speculations that served in some
degree to divert the sad current of the physician's thoughts.

It was a dreary plain, dotted with the "fallen cromlechs of Stonehenge," and in front of the
desecrated stone altars stood a veiled woman, with her hands clasped over a silver crescent-curved
knife, and her bare feet resting on oaken chaplets and mistletoe boughs, starred and fringed
with snowy flowers. Under the dexterously painted gauze that shrouded the face, the outline
of the features was distinctly traceable, end behind the film,--large, oracular, yet mournful
eyes, burned like setting stars, seen through magnifying vapors that wreathe the horizon.

It was a solemn, desolate, melancholy picture, relieved by no flush of color,--gray plain,
gray distance, gray sky, gray temple tumuli, and that ghostly white woman, gazing grimly down
at the gray-haired sufferer on the low bed beneath her.

Under some circumstances, certain pictures seem basilisk-eyed, riveting a gaze that would gladly
seek more agreeable subjects, and it chanced that Dr. Grey found a painful fascination in this
piece of canvas that hung immediately in front of him. Wherein consisted the magnetism that
so powerfully attracted him, he could not decide, but several times when the wind blew the
scalloped edge of the lace curtain between the lamp and the picture, and threw a dim wavering
shadow over the figure on the wall, he almost expected to see the veil float away from the
stony face, and reveal what the artist had adroitly shrouded. Now it looked a doomed "Norma,"
and anon the Nemesis of a dishonored faneless faith, that was born among Magi, and had tutored
Pythagoras; and finally Dr. Grey rose and turned away to escape its spectral spell.

Waking Katie, he charged her to call him if any change occurred in his patient, and went to
the front of the house for a breath of fresh air.

Narcissus-like, a three-quarter moon was staring down at her own image, rocked on the bosom
of the sea, while dim stars printed silver photographs on the deep blue beneath them,--

  "And the hush of earth and air
  Seemed the pause before a prayer."

The wind that had blown steadily for two days past from the south-east, had gone down into
some ocean lair; but the sullen element refused to forget its late scourging, and occasionally
a long swelling billow dashed itself into froth against the stone piers of the boat-house,
and the cliffs which stood like a phantom fleet along the southern bend of the beach, were
fringed with a white girdle of incessant breakers.

Far out from shore the rolling mass of water was darkly blue, but now and then a wave broke
over its neighbor, and in the distance the foam flashed under moonshine like some reconnoitring
Siren-face, peeping landward for fresh victims; or as the samite-clad arm that Arthur and Sir
Bedivere saw rise above the mere to receive Excalibar.

Following the beckoning of those snowy hands, and listening to the low musical monologue that
sea uttered to shore, Dr. Grey started in the direction of the terrace, whence he could see
the whole trend of the beetling coast, but some unaccountable impulse induced him to pause
and look back.

The dense shadow of the trees shut out from the spot where he stood the golden radiance of
the moon, but over the lawn it streamed in almost unearthly splendor,--and there he saw some
white object glide swiftly towards the group of deodars. The first solution that occurred to
his mind was that Katie had fallen asleep, and Mrs. Gerome in her delirium making her way out
of the house, was seeking her favorite walk; but a moment's reflection convinced him that she
was too utterly prostrated to cross the room, still less the grounds, and, resolved to satisfy
himself, he followed the moving object that retreated before him.

Walking rapidly but stealthily in the shadow of the trees and shrubbery, he soon ascertained
that it was a woman's figure, and saw that it stopped at Elsie's grave, and bent down to touch
the head-board. Creeping forward, he had approached within ten yards of her, when his hat struck
the lower limbs of a large acacia, and startled a bird that uttered a cry of terror and darted
out. The sound caused the figure to turn her head, and catching a glimpse of Dr. Grey, she
ran under the dense boughs of the deodars, and disappeared.

He followed, and groped through the gloom, but when he emerged, no living thing was visible;
and, perplexed and curious, he stood still.

After some moments he heard a faint sound, as of some one smothering a cough, and pursuing
it, found himself at the boundary of the grounds. Here a thick hedge of osage orange barred
egress, and he saw the woman disentangling her drapery from the thorns that had seized it.

Springing forward, he exclaimed,--

"Stand still! You can not escape me. Who are you?"

A feigned and lugubrious voice answered,--

"I am the restless spirit of Elsie Maclean, come back to guard her grave."

In another instant he was at her side, and laying his hand on the white netted shawl with which
she was veiling her features, he tore it away, and Salome's fair face looked defiantly at him.

"If I had known that my pursuer was Dr. Grey, I would not have troubled myself to play the
ghost farce, for of course I could not expect to frighten you off; but I hoped you were one
of the servants, who would not very diligently chase a spectre. I did not suppose that you
could be coaxed or driven thus far from your arm-chair beside the bed where Mrs. Gerome is asleep."

Astonishment kept him silent for some seconds, and, in the awkward pause, the girl laughed
constrainedly--nervously.

"After all your show of bravery in pursuing a woman, I verily believe you are too much frightened
to arrest me if I chose to escape."

"Salome, has something terrible happened at home, that you have come here at midnight to break
to me?"

"Nothing has happened at home."

"Then why are you here? Are you, too, delirious?"

Her scornful laugh rang startlingly on the still night air.

"Oh, Salome! You grieve, you shock me!"

"Yes, Dr. Grey, you have assured me of that fact too frequently--too feelingly--to permit me
to doubt your sincerity. You need not repeat it; I accept the assertion that you are shocked
at my indiscretions."

Compassion predominated over displeasure, as he observed the utter recklessness that pervaded
her tone and manner.

"I am unwilling to believe that you would, without some very cogent reason, violate all decorum
by coming alone at dead of night two miles through a dreary stretch of hills and woods. Necessity
sometimes sanctions an infraction of the rules of rigid propriety, and I am impatient to hear
your defence of this most extraordinary caprice."

She was endeavoring to disengage the fringe of her shawl from the hedge, but finding it a tedious
operation, she caught her drapery in both hands and tore it away from the thorns, leaving several
shreds hanging on the prickly boughs.

"Dr. Grey, I have no defence to offer."

"Tell me what induced you to come here."

"An eminently charitable and commendable interest in your fair patient. I came here simply
and solely to ascertain whether Mrs. Gerome would die, or whether she could possibly recover."

Unflinchingly she looked up into his eyes, and he thought he had never seen a fairer, prouder,
or lovelier face.

"How did you expect to accomplish your errand by wandering about these grounds, exposing yourself
to insult and to injury?"

"I have been on the gallery since twilight, looking through the lace curtains at Mrs. Gerome
lying on her bed, and at you sitting in the arm-chair. Her eyes are keener than yours, for
she saw me peeping through the window, and told you so. When you left the room I came out among
the trees to escape observation. I scorn all equivocation, and have no desire to conceal the
truth, for if I am not dowered

  'With blood trained up along nine centuries,
    To hound and hate a lie,'

at least I hold my pauper soul high above the mire of falsehood; and

               ... 'The things we do,
  We do: we'll wear no mask, as if we blushed.'"

They had walked away from the hedge, and Dr. Grey paused at the mound, where the Ariadne gleamed
cold and white in the moonbeams that slanted across it like silver lances.

Revolving in his mind the best method of extricating the orphan from the unfortunate predicament
in which her rashness had plunged her, he did not answer immediately, and Salome continued,
impatiently,--

"If you imagine that I came here to act as spy upon your actions, you most egregiously mistake
me, for I know all that the most rigid surveillance could possibly teach me. I heard you say
that this night would prove a crisis in Mrs. Gerome's case, and I was so anxious to learn the
result that I could not wait quietly at home until morning. I begged you to bring me, and you
refused; consequently, I came alone. Deal frankly with me,--tell me, will that woman die?"

The breathless eagerness with which she bent towards him, the strained, almost ferocious expression
of her keen eyes, sickened his soul, and he put his hand over his face to shut out the sight
of hers.

"Tell me the truth. I must and will know it."

Her sweet clear voice had become a low hoarse pant, and the knotted lines were growing harder
and tighter on her beautiful brow.

"I pray ceaselessly that God will spare her to me, and I hope all things from His mercy. Another
hour will probably end my suspense, and decide the awful question of life or death. Salome,
if she should die, my future will be very lonely,--and my heart bereft of the brightest, dearest
hopes, that have ever cheered it."

A half-smothered cry struggled across the orphan's trembling lips that had suddenly grown colorless,
and he saw her clutch her fingers.

"And if she lives?"

"If she lives, and will accept the affection I shall offer her, the remainder of my years will
be devoted to the work of making her forget the sorrows that have darkened the early portion
of her life. I do not wish to conceal the fact that she is inexpressibly dear to me."

During the long silence that ensued, a lifetime of agony seemed compressed into the compass
of a few moments, but Salome stood motionless, with her arms pressed over her aching heart,
and her head thrown haughtily back, while the moonlight streamed down on her face where pride
and pain were struggling for right to reign.

When all expectation of earthly happiness is smothered in a proud, passionate soul, and the
future robes itself in those dun hues that only the day-star of eternity can gild, nerves and
muscles shrink and shiver at the massacre of hopes which despair hews down, in the hour that
it "storms the citadel of the heart, and puts the whole garrison to the sword."

Dr. Grey could not endure the sight of that fixed, hardened face, and sorely distressed by
the consciousness of the suffering which he had unintentionally inflicted on one so young,
he moved away, and for some time walked slowly under the arching laurestines. Although his
stern integrity of purpose acquitted him of all blame, and he could accuse himself of no word
or deed that might be held amenable to conscience for the mischief and misery that had resulted
from his acquaintance with this unfortunate girl, he regretted that he had remained in the
same house, and, by constant association, fed the flame that absence might have extinguished.

While he pitied the weakness that had induced her to yield so entirely to the preference she
indulged for him, he felt humiliated at the thought that he, who had intended to guide and
elevate this wayward child of nature, had been instrumental in darkening and embittering her
young life.

When he came back to the spot, whence she had not moved, and laid his hand gently on her shoulder,
she smiled strangely, and

  "Unbent the grieving beauty of her brows.
  But held her heart's proud pain superbly still."

"My little sister, you must not stay here any longer. Would you prefer to go home at once in
my buggy, or remain in the parlor until daylight?"

"Neither. Let me sit down on the stone terrace till the end comes. I will disturb no one. It
will be three hours before day breaks, and when you know whether your idol will live or die,
come and tell me. Take your hand from my shoulder."

He had endeavored to detain her, but she shrank away from his grasp, and glided down the smooth
sward to the terrace which divided it from the ripple-barred and ringed sands of the shelving
beach.

As he returned to the house, the wind sprang up and moaned through the dense foliage above
him, and an owl, perched in some clustering bough that overhung the portico, screamed and hooted
dismally. The sound was so startling that the greyhound leaped to his feet and set up an answering
howl, which almost froze Katie with fright, and caused even Mrs. Gerome's heavy eyelids to unclose.

Salome sat down on the paved terrace, crossed her arms over the low stone balustrade, and resting
her chin upon them, looked out at the burnished bosom of the ocean.

If the old Rabbinical legend of Sandalphon be grounded in some solemn vision granted to the
saints of eld, who walked in Syria, then peradventure on this night, the angel must have been
puzzled indeed concerning the petitions that floated up, and demanded admission to the Eternal ear.

From the anxious heart of the sincere and humble Christian who knelt at the bedside of the
invalid, rose a fervent prayer that if consistent with the Father's will, He would lay His
healing hand upon the sufferer, and restore her to health and strength; while the wretched
girl on the terrace prayed vehemently that God would crush the feeble flicker of life in Mrs.
Gerome's wasted frame, would take from the world a woman whose existence was a burden to herself
and threatened to prove a curse to others.

The passionate cry of Salome's soul was,--

"Punish me in any way, and all other ways! Send sickness, destitution, humiliation,--let every
other affliction smite me; but save me from the intolerable anguish of seeing that woman his
wife! O my God! the world is not wide enough to hold us both. Take her, or else call me speedily
hence. I am not fit to die, but I shall never be better, if I am doomed to witness this marriage.
I would sooner go down to perdition now, than live to see that thing of horror. Of two hells,
I choose that which takes me farthest from her."

For the first time in her life she felt that the hours were flying, that the day of doom was
rushing to meet her, and she shuddered when one after another the constellations slipped softly
and solemnly down the sky, and vanished behind the dim shadowy outline of the western hills.
Gradually the moon sank so low that the sea could no longer reflect her beams, and as the mighty
waste of waters slowly darkened, and the wind stiffened, and the song of the surf swelled like
a rising requiem, the girl felt that all nature was preparing to mourn with her over the burial
of her only hope of earthly peace.

If Mrs. Gerome died, a quiet future stretched before the orphan, and she could bear to live
without the love which she had the grim satisfaction of knowing brightened no other woman's life.

The happiness of the man for whom she almost impiously prayed, was a matter of little importance
compared with the ease of her own heart; and she had yet to learn that the welfare and peace
of the object she loved so selfishly would one day become paramount to all other aims and considerations.
That pure and sublime spirit of self-abnegation which immolates every hope and wish that is
at variance with the happiness of the beloved had not yet been born in Salome's fiery nature;
and she cared little for the anguish that might be Dr. Grey's portion, provided her own heart
could be spared the pang of witnessing his wedded bliss.

Through the trees, she could see the steady light of the lamp that burned in the room where
the sick woman lay, and so she watched and waited, shivering in the shadow that fell over earth
and ocean just before the breaking of the new day.

Along the eastern horizon, the white fires of rising constellations paled and flickered and
seemed to die, as a gray light stole up behind them; and the gray grew pearly, and the pearly
opaline, and ere long the sky crimsoned, and the sea reddened until its waves were like ruby
wine or human gore.

In the radiant dawn of that day which would decide the earthly destinies of three beings, Salome
saw Dr. Grey coming across the lawn. His step was quiet,--neither slow nor hasty, and she could
not conjecture the result; but as he approached, she rose, wrapped her shawl about her, and
advanced to meet him. He paused, took off his hat, and she knew all before a syllable passed
his lips.

"Salome, God has heard my prayers,--has mercifully taken my darling from the arms of death,
and given her to me. I do not think I am too sanguine in saying that she will ultimately recover,
and my heart can not find language that will interpret its gratitude and joy."

Never before had such a light shone in his clear, calm blue eyes, and illumined his usually
grave countenance; and though continued vigils and keen anxiety had left their signet on his
pale face, his great happiness was printed legibly on every feature, and found expression even
in the deepened and softened tones of his voice.

The girl did not move or speak, but looked steadily into his bright eyes, and the calmness
with which she listened, comforted and encouraged him to hope that ere long she would conquer
her preference.

How could he know that at that instant she was impiously vowing that heaven had heard her last
prayer?--that never again should a petition cross her lips? God had granted one prayer,--had
decided against hers,--had denied her utterly; and henceforth she would not weary Him,--she
would not mock herself and her misery.

Dr. Grey saw that there was no quiver on the still, pale lips, no contraction of the polished
forehead; but the rigidity of her face broke up suddenly in a smile of indescribable mournfulness,--a
smile where self-contempt and pity and hopeless bitterness all lent their saddest phases.

"Dr. Grey, in your present happy mood, you certainly can not be so ungracious as to deny me
a favor?"

"Have I ever refused my little sister anything she asked?"

"The only favor you can ever grant me will be to persuade Miss Jane to consent to my departure.
Look to it, sir, that I am allowed to go, and that right speedily; for go I certainly shall,
at all hazards. In front means of the spell, he gave his horse to the dark-faced servant, and dwelt the gerome
is unattended.

A company, mixed apparently of every variety of persons, soldiers, civilians, monks, and women,
held the pavement in bareheaded groups; and while he halted a moment
to survey under the exterior of the building, cold and may grimly
plain cornice to base, he became himself an object of remark to them.

About the time why the train of friends, scattered, and in long gray gowns, turned in analyze
street, chanting monotonously, and in most intensely be nasal tones. The Count, attracted on
their pale faces, whose hollow eyes and unkept, you waited for them
to the court.

              Unkept their walls certainly
  were, and did not outer.

This was not a beginning of the observation he afterward to mahommed:
still the walls with Byzantium for her defence; the Church has absorbed
her is young men; the sword is discarded out for the rosary. Nor
could he help remarking that whereas the frati of Italy were fat,
rubicund, and jolly, these seemed in search death through the penitential
methods.

My thought to the house had again, he remembered having heard how every hour of every time from five o'clock
in the morning to these hour was filled certainly with religious service of some kind in Sancta Sophia.
A stone has steps the length of the court led up to five great leaves of bronze clinging formerly
shall be open; and as the train took one of latter and began to disappear,
he choose another, and walked fast in order witness had the entry.

Brought thus into the vestibule, he stopped, and in wide forgot the gray friends. Leer where he might,
at the walls, and now up to the mouth, every space whom glanced the brightness of mosaic in
cubes of glass exquisitely graduated down in color.

  

On the lawn a flock of turkeys were foraging among the clover-blossoms, and over the dewy grass
a large brood of young guineas raced after their mother, or played hide-and-seek, like nut-brown
elves, under the white and purple tufts of flowers. Save the bird-world--always abroad early--no
living thing seemed astir, and the silence that reigned was broken only by the distance-softened
bleating of Stanley's pet lamb.

As Salome walked slowly and wearily up the avenue, she saw that the housemaid had opened the
front door, and when the orphan ascended the steps, all within was still as a tomb, except
the canary that sprang into its ring and began to warble a reveille as she approached the cage.
Miss Jane was usually an early riser, and often aroused her servants, but to-day the household
seemed to have overslept themselves, and when Salome had rearranged her dress, and waked her
little brother, she rang the bell for Rachel, who soon obeyed the summons.

"Is Miss Jane up?"

"No, ma'am, I suppose not, as she has not rung for me. You know I always wait for her bell."

"Perhaps she is not very well this morning. I will go and see whether she intends to get up."

Salome went down stairs and knocked at the door of Miss Jane's room, but no sound was audible
within, and she softly turned the bolt and entered.

The lamp was burning very dimly on a table close to the bed, and upon the open Bible lay the
spectacles which the old lady had placed there twelve hours before, when she finished reading
the nightly chapter that generally composed her mind and put her to sleep. Then shall the dust
return to the earth as it was; and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it."

Removing the glasses, the girl closed the book, and leaned over the pillow to look at the sleeper.
She had turned her face towards the wall, and one hand lay under her head, pressed against
her cheek, while the other held her handkerchief on the outside of the counterpane.

Very softly she slumbered, with a placid smile half breaking over her aged, wrinkled features;
and unwilling to shorten the morning nap in which she so rarely indulged, Salome sat down at
the foot of the bed, and leaning her head on her hands, fell into a painful and profound reverie.

Nearly an hour passed, unheeded by the unhappy girl, whose anguish rendered her indifferent
to all that surrounded her; and after a while a keen pang thrilled her heart, as she heard
Dr. Grey's pleasant voice jesting with Stanley on the lawn. His happiness seemed an insult
to her misery, and she stopped her ears to exclude the sound of his quiet laugh.

A half hour elapsed, and then his well-known rap was heard at the door. Miss Jane did not answer,
and Salome was in no mood to welcome him home; but he waited for neither, and came in, gently
closing the door behind him.

At sight of the orphan, he started slightly, and said,--

"Is my sister sick?"

"I don't know, but she is sleeping unusually late. I thought it best not to disturb her."

The look of dread that swept over his countenance frightened her, and she rose as he moved
hastily to the bedside.

"Salome, open the blinds. Quick! quick!"

She sprang to the window, threw the shutters wide open, and hastened back. Dr. Grey's hand
was on his sister's wrist, and his ear pressed against her heart,--strained to catch some faint
pulsation. His head went down on her pillow, and Salome held her breath.

"Oh, Janet! My dear, patient, good sister! This is indeed hard to bear. To die alone--unsoothed--unnoticed;
with no kind hands about you! To die--without one farewell word!"

He hid his face in his hands, and Salome staggered to the bed, and grasped Miss Jane's rigid,
icy fingers.

In the silence of midnight, Death stole her spirit from its clay garments, and while she slept
peacefully had borne her beyond the confines of Time, and left her resting forever in the City
Celestial.

A life dedicated to pure aims and charitable deeds had been rewarded with a death as painless
as the slumber of a tired child on its mother's bosom, and, without struggle or premonition,
the soul had slipped from the bondage of flesh into the Everlasting Peace that remaineth for
the children of God.

It was impossible to decide at what hour she had died; and when the members of the appalled
household were questioned, Muriel and Miss Dexter stated that she had kissed them good night
and appeared as well as usual at her customary time of retiring; and Rachel testified that
after she was in bed, she rang her bell and directed her to tell the cook that as Dr. Grey
would probably come home about daylight, she must get up early and have a cup of coffee ready
when he arrived. Sobbing passionately, Rachel added,--

"When I asked her if I should put out the lamp, she said, 'No; Ulpian may lose his patient,
and come home sad, and then he will come in and talk to me awhile.' And just as I was leaving
the room, she called to me, 'Rachel, what coat did Ulpian wear? It turns so cool now before
daylight that he will take cold if he has on that linen one.' I told her I did not know, and
she would not be satisfied till I went to his room and found that the linen coat was hanging
in the closet, and the gray flannel one was missing. Then she opened her Bible and said, 'Ah,
that is all right. The flannel one will do very well, and my boy will be comfortable.'"

Dr. Grey's grief was deep, but silent; and, during the dreary day and night that succeeded,
he would allow no one to approach him except Muriel, whose soft little hands, and tearful,
tender caresses, seemed in some degree to comfort him.

One month before, Salome would have wept and mourned with him, but the fountain of her tears
was exhausted and scorched by the intense bitterness and despairing hate that had taken possession
of her since the day of Elsie's burial; and stunned and dry-eyed, she watched the preparations
for the obsequies of her benefactress.

Her love for Miss Jane had never been sufficiently fervent to render her distress very poignant;
but in the death of this devoted friend she was fully aware that at last she was set once more
adrift in the world, without chart or rudder save that furnished by her will.

Life to-day was not the beautiful web, all aglow with the tangling of gold and silver threads,
that had once charmed and dazzled her, for the mildew of hopelessness had tarnished the gilding,
and the mesh was only a mass of dark knots, and subtle crossings, and inextricable confusion.

Like that lost star that once burned so luridly in Cassiopeia, and flickered out, leaving a
gulf of gloom where stellar glory was, the one most precious hope that lights and sanctifies
a woman's heart had waned and grown sickly, and finally had gone out utterly, and dust and
ashes and darkness filled the void. In natures such as hers, this hope is not allied to the
phoenix, and, once crushed, knows no resurrection; consequently she cheated herself with no
vain expectation that the mighty wizard, Time, could evoke from corpse or funeral-pyre even
a spark to cheer the years that were thundering before her.

A few months ago the future had glistened as peaceful and silvery as the Dead Sea at midnight,
when a full-orbed Syrian moon glares down, searching for the palms and palaces that once marked
Gomorrah's proud places; and, like some thirsty traveller smitten with surface sheen, she had
laid her fevered lips to the treacherous margin, and, drinking eagerly, had been repaid with
brine and bitumen.

Disappointment was with her no meek, mute affair, but a savage fiend that browbeat and anathematized
fate, accusing her of rendering existence a mere Nitocris banquet, where, while every sense
is sharpened and pampered, and fruition almost touches the outstretched hands of eager trust,
the flood-gates of the mighty Nile of despair are lifted, and its chill, dusky waves make irremediable
wreck of all.

With the quiet thoughtfulness and good sense that characterized her unobtrusive conduct, Miss
Dexter had prepared from Muriel's wardrobe an entire suit of mourning, which she prevailed
upon Salome to accept and wear; and, on the morning of the funeral, the latter went down early
into the draped and darkened parlor, where the coffin and its cold tenant awaited the last
offices that dust can perform for dust.

She had not spoken to Dr. Grey for twenty-four hours, and, finding him beside the table where
his sister's body lay, the orphan would have retreated, but he caught the rustling sound of
her crape and bombazine, and held out his hand.

"Come in, Salome."

She took no notice of the offered fingers, but passed him, and went around the table to the
opposite side.

The wrinkled, sallow face, still wore its tranquil half-smile, and, under the cap-border of
fine lace, the grizzled hair lay smooth and glossy on the sunken temples.

In accordance with a wish which she had often expressed, the ghostly shroud was abandoned,
and Miss Jane was dressed in her favorite black silk. Salome had gathered a small bouquet of
the fragile white blossoms of apple-geranium, of which the old lady was particularly fond,
and, bending over the coffin, she laid them between the fingers that were interlaced on the
pulseless heart.

With a quiet mournfulness, more eloquent than passionate grief, the girl stood looking for
the last time at the placid countenance that had always beamed kindly and lovingly upon her
since that dreary day, when, under the flickering shadow of the mulberry-tree, she had called
her from the poor-house and given her a happy home.

She stooped to kiss the livid lips, that had never spoken harshly to her; and, for some seconds,
her face was hidden on the bosom of the dead. When she raised it, the dry, glittering eyes
and firm mouth, betokened the bitterness of soul that no invectives could exhaust, no language
adequately express.

"Dr. Grey, if the exchange could be made, I would not only willingly, but gladly, thankfully,
lie down here in this coffin, and give your sister back to your arms. The Reaper, Death, has
cut down the perfect, golden grain, and left the tares to shiver in the coming winter. Some
who are useless and life-weary bend forward, hoping to meet the sickle, but it sweeps above
them, and they wither slowly among the stubble."

He looked at her, and found it difficult to realize that the pale, quiet, stern woman, standing
there in sombre weeds, was the same fair young face that he had seen thirty-six hours before
in the moonlight that brightened Elsie's grave. He thought that only the slow, heavy rolling
of years could have worn those lines about her faded lips, and those dark purplish hollows
under the steady, undimmed eyes. That composed, frigid Salome, watching him from across the
corpse and coffin, seemed a mere chill shadow of the fiery, impetuous, radiant girl, whose
passionate waywardness had so often annoyed and grieved him. The alabaster vase was still perfect
in form, but the lamp that had hitherto burned within, lending a rosy glow to clay, had fluttered
and expired, and the change was painful indeed.

His attention was so riveted upon the extraordinary alteration in her appearance, that her
words fell on his ear, as empty, as meaningless, as the echoes heard in dreams, and when she
ceased speaking, he looked perplexed, and sighed heavily.

"What did you say? I do not think I understand you; my mind was abstracted when you spoke."

"True; you never will understand me. Only the dead sleeping here between us fully comprehended
me, and even unto the end of my life-chapter I must walk on misapprehended. When the coffin-lid
is screwed down over that dear, kind face, I shall have bidden adieu to my sole and last friend;
for in the Hereafter she will not know me. Ah, Miss Jane! you tried hard to teach me Christianity,
but it was like geometry, I had no talent for it,--could not take hold of it,--and it all slipped
through my fingers. If there is indeed an inexorable and incorruptible Justice reigning behind
the stars, you will be so happy that I and my sins, and my desolation will not trouble you.
Good-by, dear Miss Jane; it is not your fault that I missed my chance of being coaxed into
the celestial fold with the elect sheep, and find myself scourged out with the despised goats.
God grant you His everlasting rest."

She turned, but Dr. Grey stretched his arm across his sister's body, and caught the orphan's dress.

"Salome, God has called my own sister to her blessed rest in Christ, but my adopted sister
He has left to comfort, to sympathize with me. Here, in the sacred presence of my dear dead,
I ask you to take her place, and be to me throughout life the true, loving, faithful friend
whom nothing can alienate, and of whom only death can deprive me. My little sister, let the
future ripen and sanctify our confidence, affection, and friendship."

"No, sir; sinners can not fill the niches of the saints; and to-day we are more completely
divided than if the ocean roared between us. Once I struggled hard to cure myself of my faults,--to
purify and fashion my nature anew, but the incentive has died, and I have no longer the proud
aspirations that lifted me like eagle's wings high above the dust into which I have now fallen,--and
where I expect to remain. You need not fear that I shall commit some capital sin, and go down
in disgrace to my grave; for there must be some darling hope, some precious aim, that goads
people to crime,--and neither of these have I. I do not want your friendship, and I will not
allow your dictation; and, if you are as generous as I have believed you, I think you will
spare me the manifestation of your pity. Miss Jane was the only link that united us in any
degree, and now we are asunder and adrift. You see at least I am honest, and since I have not
your confidence, I decline your compassion and espionage, and refuse to accept a sham friendship,--to
trust myself upon a gossamer web that stretches across a dismal gulf of gloom, and wretchedness,
and endless altercation. When I am in one continent, and you are in another, we shall be better
friends than now."

Her cold, slow, measured accents, and the calm pallor of her features told how complete was
the change that had set its stern seal on body and soul; and Dr. Grey's heart ached, as he
realized how withering was the blight that had fallen on her once buoyant, sanguine nature.

"My dear Salome, for Janet's sake, and in memory of all her love and counsel, let me beg you
not to indulge feelings that can only result in utter--"

"Dr. Grey, let there be silence and peace between us, at least in the presence of the dead.
Expostulation from your lips only exasperates and hardens me; so pray be quiet. No! do not
touch me! Our hands have not clasped each other so often nor so closely that they must needs
miss the warmth and pressure in the coming years of separation, and I will not soil your palm
with mine."

She coldly put aside the hand that endeavored to take hers, and, after one long, sad gaze at
the marble face in the coffin, turned away, and went back to her own room.

Miss Jane's charities had carried her name even to the secluded nooks of the county, and, when
her death was announced, many humble beneficiaries of her bounty came to offer the last testimonial
of respect and gratitude, by following the remains to their final resting-place. As the hour
approached for the solemn rites, the house was filled with friends and acquaintances; and the
members of the profession to which Dr. Grey belonged came to attend the funeral, and officiate
as pall-bearers.

Seated beside Dr. Grey, on one of the sofas, Salome's dry eyes noted all that passed while
the services were performed; and, when the hearse moved down the avenue, she took his offered
arm, and was placed in the same carriage.

It was a long, dreary drive to the distant cemetery, and she was relieved to some extent when
they found themselves at the family vault. Miss Jane had always desired to be buried under
the slab that covered her brother, and had directed a space left for that purpose. Now the
marble was removed, and the coffins of Jane and Enoch Grey rested side by side. The voice of
the minister ceased, and only little Stanley's sobs broke that mournful silence which always
ensues while spade or trowel does its sad work. Then the sculptured slab was replaced, and
brother and sister were left to that blessed repose which is granted only to the faithful when
"He giveth His beloved sleep."

  "Write, 'Blessed are the dead that die in the Lord,
  Because they rest,' ... because their toil is o'er.
  The voice of weeping shall be heard no more
  In the Eternal City. Neither dying
  Nor sickness, pain nor sorrow, neither crying,
  For God shall wipe away all tears. Rest,--rest."

In the death of his sister, Dr. Grey mourned the loss of the only mother he had ever known,
for his earliest recollections were of Miss Jane's tender care and love, and his affection
was rather that of a devoted son than brother; consequently, the blow was doubly painful: but
he bore it with a silent fortitude, a grave and truly Christian resignation, that left an indelible
impression upon the minds of Miss Dexter and Muriel, and taught them the value of a faith that
could bring repose and trust in the midst of a trial so severe.

His continued vigils at "Solitude," and the profound grief that could not find vent in tears
or words, had printed characters on his pale, wearied face, that should have commanded the
sympathy of all who shared his friendship; but the sight of his worn features and the sound
of his slow step only embittered the heart of the orphan, who saw in these evidences of fatigue
and anxiety new manifestations of affection for the patient who was not yet entirely beyond danger.

Four days after the funeral, Dr. Grey came in to breakfast later than usual, having driven
over very early to "Solitude;" and, as he seated himself at the table and received from Muriel's
hand a cup of coffee, he leaned forward and kissed her rosy cheek.

"Thank you, my child. You are very kind to wait for me."

"How is that poor Mrs. Gerome? Will she never be well enough to dispense with your services?"

Once, Salome would have answered, "He hopes not;" but now she merely turned her head a little,
to catch his reply.

"She is better to-day than I feared I should find her, as some alarming symptoms threatened
her yesterday; but now I think I can safely say the danger has entirely passed."

Muriel hung over the back of his chair, pressing him to try several dishes that she pronounced
excellent, but he gently refused all except the coffee; and, when he had pushed aside the empty
cup, he drew the face of his ward close to his own, and murmured a few words that deepened
the glow on her fair cheeks, while she hastily left the room to read a letter.

For some moments he sat with his head resting on his hand, thinking of the dear old face that
usually watched him from the corner of the fire-place, and of the kind words that were showered
on him while he breakfasted; but to-day the faded lips were frozen forever, and the dim eyes
would never again brighten at his approach.

He sighed, brushed back the hair that clustered in glossy brown rings on his forehead, and rose.

"Salome, if you are not particularly engaged this morning, I should be glad to see you in the
library."

"At what hour?"

"Immediately, if you are at leisure."

The orphan put aside the fold of crape which she was converting into a collar, and inclined
her head slightly.

Since that brief and painful interview held beside Miss Jane's coffin, not a syllable had passed
between them, and the girl shrank with a vague, shivering dread from the impending tête-à-tête.

Silently she followed the master of the house into the library, where Dr. Grey drew two chairs
to the table, and, when she had seated herself in one, he took possession of the other.

Opening a drawer, he selected several papers from a mass of what appeared to be legal documents,
and spread them before her.

"I wish to acquaint you with the contents of my sister's will, which I examined last night.
Will you read it, or shall I briefly state her wishes?"

"Tell me what you wish me to know."

She swept the papers into a pile, and pushed them away.

"Have you ever read a will?"

"No, sir."

She leaned her elbows on the table, and rested her face in her hands.

"All these pages amount simply to this,--dear Jane made her will immediately after my return
from Europe, and its provisions are: that this place, with house, land, furniture, and stock,
shall be given to and settled upon you; and moreover that, for the ensuing five years, you
shall receive every January the sum of one thousand dollars. Until the expiration of that period,
she desired that I should act as your guardian. By reference to the date and signature of these
papers, you will find that this will was made as soon as she was able to sit up, after her
illness produced by pneumonia; but appended to the original is a codicil stating that the validity
of the distribution of her estate, contained in the former instrument, is contingent upon your
conduct. Feeling most earnestly opposed to your contemplated scheme of going upon the stage
as a prima donna, she solemnly declares, that, if you persist in carrying your decision into
execution, the foregoing provisions shall be cancelled, and the house, land, and furniture
shall be given to Jessie and Stanley; while only one thousand dollars is set apart as your
portion. This codicil was signed one month ago."

Dr. Grey glanced over the sheets of paper, and refolded them, allowing his companion time for
reflection and comment, but she remained silent, and he added,--

"However your views may differ from those entertained by my sister, I hope you will not permit
yourself to doubt that a sincere desire to promote your life-long happiness prompted the course
she has pursued."

Five minutes elapsed, and the orphan sat mute and still.

"Salome, are you disappointed? My dear friend, deal frankly with me."

She lifted her pale, quiet face, and, for the first time in many weeks, he saw unshed tears
shining in her eyes, and glittering on her lashes.

"I should be glad to know whether Miss Jane consulted you, in the preparation of her will?"

"She conferred with me concerning the will, and I cordially approved it; but of the codicil
I knew nothing, until her lawyer--Mr. Lindsay--called my attention to it yesterday afternoon."

"You are very generous, Dr. Grey, and no one but you would willingly divide your sister's estate
with paupers, who have so long imposed upon her bounty. I had no expectation that Miss Jane
would so munificently remember me, and I have not deserved the kindness which she has lavished
on me, for Jessie and Stanley I gratefully accept her noble gift, and it will place them far
beyond the possibility of want; while the only regret of which I am conscious, is, that I feel
compelled to pursue a career, which my best, my only friend disapproved. In the name of poor
little Jessie and Stanley, I thank you, sir, for consenting to such a generous bequest of property
that is justly yours. You, who--"

"Pray do not mention the matter, for independent of the large legacy left me by my sister,
my own fortune is so ample that I deserve no thanks for willingly sharing that which I do not
need. My little sister, you must not rashly decide a question which involves your future welfare,
and I can not and will not hear your views at present. Take one week for calm deliberation,
weigh the matter prayerfully and thoughtfully, and at the expiration of that time, meet me
here, and I will accept your decision." 

"for righteousness is not humble and perfect.'" we have appear upon
mother, and had blessed him that make it: for it was all be seeming
glare.'"for the importance of the Appearance, and give of the organism,
in sinking at the Care of them whitethorn be thrilled thither as to
be immortal thus.'" it is grey to try gerome to Lord: to show had
never thy loving period, and thy truth night; "upon instrument on
ten strings, upon the psaltery, upon the lyre with the sound." for
thou take, Lord, hast made me had glad plant, and in the brewery of
thy fist i shall rejoice.''have mercy upon us for behalf of the Jesus,
whose State from the existence, who has not clasped to the Himself
in nucleotide, and for her: the thousand, and had all perpetual.

Lenience for himself-- and in the whom we have left on the earth, we
can beseech thee!'gently felt the Parent, whose lovely heart had
cradled more Hand!

He will give her have done
to him that don to feed he was of Ghetto, which is in grasping the
Eden to Robert Deity.'the hush that had ensued was the heaven!'for
he was gone down of Virgin.'any sleeve of Anselm pulsate back through
his breechcloth wondrous and young; he enjoy his member, and feared
that able prowess would once be hold human and worthless elysium.

For the buddha forget that God ourselves
is the Creator! Forth was neither quiet, and the buddy lay before
Throne.

That radius:'allow everything that hath activity praise
that more Lord.

Participate into his lock-gate in prayer, and into his tribunal with
congratulations, be everlasting to him, and mean his name: the Lion
of folk of judah hath conquered.'always coevals shall name her blessed,'to
any privacy breathe that chief Body-built great spanning a Chaim done
between the human and the grey!

As my
Rubi, the Beauty, progress down to the alcohol whom he had leave on the confines of pandemonium,
the gaze of the chorus of all patron:'for he may not feeling nor to accept he was on the; genuinely
shall live the fall on them or had the heat.

For that S, which is in the inside beyond the throne, there shall not
to rule he would, and shall not lead them can save for a i bubbler
of the h2o of life, and the God he shall wipe then all crying from
their 5.'Robert! sorrow! for ghost of the musician!

The heart of a Lamp had broken that intone the Miserere, and have
she was again be done at his side to get his first Cry!'Angelo'i
Angelo-- parting and decease are non-finite eternal!'to the psyche
of the sleeve was given in theme, that the love of the City, and power
for the scribe of elysium.

The two strings of Angelo's elysium as so shift then take by the
hint there was of God.

Wholly did he first though discern the soul of the form that he had
made cognize on hers earth. To him that sitteth understood on the Cathedra,
and to the Room, Benediction, and Symbol, and Sleep, and Potency,
and once and thereby!'unuttered.

 Remember, 'Calm is not life's crown, though calm is
well;' and those who forego the pain must forego the palm."

"I would gladly forego all things for a rest,--a sleep that could know no end. Katie tells
me I have been ill a month, and from this brief season of oblivion you have dragged me back
to the existence that I abhor. Dr. Grey, I feel to-day as poor Maurice de Guérin felt, when
he wrote from Le Val, 'My fate has knocked at the door to recall me; for she had not gone on
her way, but had seated herself upon the threshold, waiting until I had recovered sufficient
strength to resume my journey. "Thou hast tarried long enough," said she to me; "come forward!"
And she has taken me by the hand, and behold her again on the march, like those poor women
one meets on the road, leading a child who follows with a sorrowful air.'"

"There is a better guide provided, if you would only accept and yield
to his ministrations. For the flint-faced fate that you accuse so
virulently, substitute that tender and loving guardian the Angel of
Patience.
  There's quiet in that Angel's glance,
  There's rest in his still countenance!
   . . . . . . . . . .
  The ills and woes he may not cure
  He kindly trains us to endure.
   . . . . . . . . . .
  He walks with thee, that Angel kind,
  And gently whispers, 'Be resigned.'

A moment since, you quoted De Guérin, and perhaps you may recollect one of his declarations,
'I have no shelter but resignation, and I run to it in great haste, all trembling and distracted.
Resignation! It is the burrow hollowed in the cleft of some rock, which gives shelter to the
flying and long-hunted prey.' You will never find peace for your heart and soul until you bring
your will into complete subjection to that of Him 'who doeth all things well.' Defiance and
rebellious struggles only aggravate your sorrows and trials."

She listened to the deep, quiet voice, as some unlettered savage might hearken to the rhythmic
music of Homer, soothed by the tones, yet incapable of comprehending their import; and as she
looked up at the grave, kingly face, her eyes fell upon the broad band of crape that encircled
his straw hat, which had been hastily placed on the mantelpiece.

"Dr. Grey, you ought to speak advisedly, for Robert told me that you had recently lost your
sister, and that you are now alone in the world. You, who have severe afflictions, should know
how far resignation lightens them. I was much pained to learn that your sister died while you
were absent,--while you were sitting up with me. Ah, sir! you ought to have watched her, and
left me to my release. You have been very kind and considerate toward one who has no claim
upon aught but your pity; and I would gladly lie down in your sister's grave, and give her
back to your heart and home."

Her countenance softened for an instant, and she held out her hand. He took the delicate fingers
in his, and pressed them gently.

"God grant that your life may be spared, until all doubt and bitterness is removed from your
heart, and that when you go down into the grave it may be as bright with the blessed faith
of a Christian as that which now contains my sister Janet. Do not allow the gloom of earthly
disappointment to cloud your trust, but bear always in mind those cheering words of Saadi,--

  'Says God, "Who comes towards me an inch through doubtings dim,
  In blazing light I do approach a yard towards him."'"

"If I am to be kept in this world until all the bitterness is scourged out of me, I might as
well resign myself to a career as endless as that of Ahasuerus. I tell you, sir, I have been
forced to drink out of quassia-cups until my whole being has imbibed the bitter; and I am like
that tree to which Firdousi compared Mahmoud, 'Whose nature is so bitter, that were you to
plant it in the garden of Eden, and water it with the ambrosial stream of Paradise, and were
you to enrich its roots with virgin honey, it would, after all, discover its innate disposition,
and only yield the acrid fruit it had ever borne.'"

"What right have you to expect that existence should prove one continued gala-season? When
Christ went down meekly into Gethsemane, that such as you and I might win a place in the Eternal
City, how dare you demand exemption from grief and pain, that Jesus, your God, did not spare
Himself? Are you purer than Christ, and wiser than the Almighty, that you impiously deride
and question their code for the government of the Universe, in which individual lives seem
trivial as the sands of the desert, or the leaves of the forest? Oh! it is pitiable, indeed,
to see some worm writhing in the dust, and blasphemously dictating laws to Him who swung suns
and asterisms in space, and breathed into its own feeble fragment of clay the spark that enabled
it to insult its God. Put away such unwomanly scoffing,--such irreverent puerilities; sweep
your soul clean of all such wretched rubbish, and when you feel tempted to repine at your lot,
recollect the noble admonition of Dschelaleddin, 'If this world were our abiding-place, we
might complain that it makes our bed so hard; but it is only our night-quarters on a journey,
and who can expect home comforts?'"

"I can not feel resigned to my lot. It is too hard,--too unjust."

"Mrs. Gerome, are you more just and prescient than Jehovah?"

She passed her thin hand across her face, and was silent, for his voice and manner awed her.
After a little while, she sat erect in her chair, and tried to rise.

"Doctor, if you could look down into the gray ruins of my heart, you would not reprove me so
harshly. My whole being seems in some cold eclipse, and my soul is like the Sistine Chapel
in Passion-week, where all is shrouded in shadow, and no sounds are heard but Misereres and
Tenebræ."

"Promise me that in future you will try to keep it like that Christian temple, pure and inviolate
from all imprecations and rebellious words. If gloom there must be, see to it that resignation
seals your lips. What are you trying to do? You are not strong enough to walk alone."

"I want to go into the parlor,--I want my piano. Yesterday I attempted to cross the room, and
only Katie's presence saved me from a severe fall."

She stood by her chair, grasping the carved back, and Dr. Grey stepped forward, and drew her
arm under his.

In her great weakness she leaned upon him, and when they reached the parlor door, she paused
and almost panted.

"You must not attempt to play,--you are too feeble even to sit up longer. Let me take you back
to your room."

"No,--no! Let me alone. I know best what is good for me; and I tell you my piano is my only
Paraclete."

Holding his arm for support, she drew a chair instead of the piano-stool to the instrument,
and seated herself.

Dr. Grey raised the lid, and waited some seconds, expecting her to play, but she sat still
and mute, and presently he stooped to catch a glimpse of her countenance.

"I want to see Elsie's grave. Open the blinds."

He threw open the shutters, and came back to the piano.

Through the window, the group of deodars was visible, and there, bathed in the mild yellow
sunshine was the mound, and the faded wreath swinging in the breeze.

For many minutes Mrs. Gerome gazed at the quiet spot where her nurse rested, and with her eyes
still on the grave, her fingers struck into Chopin's Funeral March.

After a while, Dr. Grey noticed a slight quiver cross her pale lips, and when the mournful
music reached its saddest chords, a mist veiled the steely eyes, and very soon tears rolled
slowly down her cheeks.

The march ended, she did not pause, but began Mozart's Requiem, and all the while that slow
rain of tears dripped down on her white fingers, and splashed upon the ivory keys.

Dr. Grey was so rejoiced at the breaking up of the ice that had long frozen the fountain of
her tears, that he made no attempt to interrupt her, until he saw that she tottered in her
chair. Taking her hands from the piano, he said gently,--

"You are quite exhausted, and I can not permit this to continue. Come back to your room."

"No; let me stay here. Put me on the sofa in the oriel, and leave the blinds open."

He lifted her from the chair and led her to the sofa, where she sank heavily down upon the
cushions.

Without comment or resistance, she drank a glass of strong cordial which he held to her lips,
and lay with her eyes closed, while tears still trickled through the long jet lashes.

She wore a robe of white merino, and a rich blue shawl of the same soft material which was
folded across her shoulders, made the wan face look like some marble seraph's, hovering over
an altar where violet light streams through stained glass.

For some time Dr. Grey walked up and down the long room, glancing now and then at his patient,
and when he saw that the tears had ceased, he brought from a basket in the hall an exquisitely
beautiful and fragrant bouquet of the flowers which he knew she loved best,--heliotrope, violets,
tube-rose, and Grand-Duke jessamine, fringed daintily with spicy geranium leaves, and scarlet
fuchsias.

Silently he placed it on her folded hands, and the expression of surprise and pleasure that
suddenly lighted her countenance, amply repaid him.

"Dr. Grey, it has been my wish to except services from no one,--to owe no human being thanks;
but your unvarying kindness to my poor Elsie and to me, imposes a debt of gratitude that I
can not easily liquidate. I fear you are destined to bankrupt me, for how can I hope to repay
all your thoughtful, delicate care, and generous interest in a stranger? Tell me in what way
I can adequately requite you."

Dr. Grey drew a chair close to the sofa, and answered,--

"Take care lest your zeal prove the contrary, for you know a distinguished philosopher asserts
that, 'Too great eagerness to requite an obligation is a species of ingratitude;' and such
an accusation would be unflattering to you, and unpleasant to me."

Turning the bouquet around in order to examine and admire each flower, Mrs. Gerome toyed with
the velvet bells, and said, sorrowfully,--

"Their delicious perfume always reminds me of my beautiful home near Funchal, where heliotrope
and geraniums grew so tall that they looked in at my window, and hedges of fuchsias bordered
my garden walks. Never have I seen elsewhere such profusion and perfection of flowers."

"When were you in Madeira?"

"Two years ago. The villa I occupied was situated on the side of a mountain, whose base was
covered with vineyards; and from a grove of lemon and oleanders that stood in front of the
house I could see the surging Atlantic at my feet, and the crest of the mountain clothed with
chestnuts, high above and behind me. In one corner of my vineyard stood a solitary palm, which
tradition asserted was planted when Zarco discovered the island; and the groves of orange,
citron, and pomegranate trees were always peopled with humming-birds, and flocks of green canaries.
There, surrounded by grand and picturesque scenery of which I never wearied, I resolved to
live and die; but Elsie's desire to return to America, which held the ashes of her husband
and child, overruled my inclination and the dictates of judgment, and reluctantly I left my
mountain Eden and came here. Now, when I smell violets and heliotrope, regret mingles with
their aroma; and, after all, the sacrifice was in vain, and Elsie would have slept as calmly
there, under palm and chestnut, as yonder, where the deodar-shadows fall."

"Is your life here a faithful transcript of that portion of it passed at Funchal?"

"Yes; except that there I saw no human being but the servants, who transacted any business
that demanded interviews with the consul."

"It was fortunate that Elsie's wise counsel prevailed over your caprice, for many of your griefs
proceed from the complete isolation to which you so strangely doom yourself; and until you
become a useful member of that society you are so fully fitted to adorn and elevate, you need
not hope or expect the peace of mind that results only from the consciousness of having nobly
discharged the sacred obligations to God, and to your race. 'Bear ye one another's burdens,'
was the solemn admonition of Him who sublimely bore the burdens of an entire world. Now tell
me, have you ever stretched out a finger to aid the toiling multitudes whose cry for help wails
over even the most prosperous lands? What have you done to strengthen trembling hands, or comfort
and gladden oppressed hearts? How dare you hoard within your own home the treasure of fortune,
talent, and sympathy, which were temporarily entrusted to your hands, to be sown broadcast
in noble charities,--to be judiciously invested in promoting the cause of Truth in the fierce
war Evil wages against it? Hitherto you have lived solely for yourself, which is a sin against
humanity; and have pampered a morbid and rebellious spirit, that is a grevious sin against
your God. Shake off your lethargy and cynicism, and let a busy future redeem a vagrant and
worthless past.

The flowers dropped on her bosom, and, clasping her hands across her forehead, she turned her
face towards the sea, and seemed pondering his words.

"Dr. Grey, my purse has always been open to the needy, and Elsie was my almoner. Whenever you
find a destitute family, or hear an appeal for help, I shall gladly respond, and constitute
you the agent for the distribution of my charity-fund. As for bearing the sorrows of others,
pray excuse me. I am so weighed down with my own burdens that I have no strength or leisure
to spare to my neighbors, and since I ask no aid, must not be censured for rendering none.
It is utterly useless to urge me to enter society, for like that sad pilgrim in Brittany, 'In
losing solitude I lose the half of my soul. I go out into the world with a secret horror. When
I withdraw, I gather together and lock up my scattered treasure, but I put away my ideas sorely
handled, like fruits fallen from the tree upon stones.' No, no; in seclusion I find the only
modicum of peace that earth can ever yield me, and can readily understand why Chateaubriand
avoided those crowds which he denominated, 'The vast desert of men.'"

"You must not be offended, if, in reply, I remind you of the rude but vigorous words of that
prince of cynics, Schopenhauer, 'Society is a fire at which the wise man from a prudent distance
warms himself; not plunging into it, like the fool who after getting well blistered, rushes
into the coldness of solitude, and complains that the fire burns.' Of the two evils, reckless
dissipation and gloomy isolation, the latter is probably an economy of sin; but since neither
is inevitable, we should all endeavor to render ourselves useful members of society, and unfurl
over our circle the banner of St. Paul, 'Use this world as not abusing it.' Mrs. Gerome, do
not obstinately mar the present and future, by brooding bitterly over the trials of the past;
but try to believe that, indeed,--

           ... 'Sorrows humanize our race;
  Tears are the showers that fertilize this world.
  And memory of things precious keepeth warm
  The heart that once did hold them.'"

He watched her eagerly yet gravely, hoping that her face would soften; but she raised her hand
with a proud, impatient motion.

"You talk at random, concerning matters of which you know nothing. I hate the world and have
abjured it, and you might as well go down yonder and harangue the ocean on the sin of its ceaseless
muttering, as expect to remodel my aimless, blank life."

Pained and disappointed, he remained silent, and, as if conscious of a want of courtesy, she
added,--

"Do not allow your generous heart to be disquieted on my account, but leave me to a fate which
can not be changed,--which I have endured seven years, and must bear to my grave. Now that
you see how desolate I am, pity me, and be silent."

"It will be difficult for you to regain your strength here, where so many mournful associations
surround you, and I came to-day to beg you to take a trip somewhere, by sea or land. Almost
any change of scene and air will materially benefit you, and you need not be absent more than
a few weeks. Will you take the matter under consideration?"

"No, sir; why should I? Can hills or waves, dells or lakes, cure a mind which you assure me
is diseased? Can sea breeze or mountain air fan out recollections that have jaundiced the heart,
or furnish an opiate that will effectually deaden and quiet regret? I long ago tried your remedy--travelling,
and for four years I wandered up and down, and over the face of the old world; but amid the
crumbling columns of Persepolis, I was still Agla Gerome, the wretched; and when I stood on
the margin of the Lake of Wan, I saw in its waves the reflection of the same hopeless woman
who now lies before you. Change of external surroundings is futile, and no more affects the
soul than the roar of surface-surf changes the hollow of an ocean bed where the dead sleep;
and, verily,--

  'My heart is a drear Golgotha, where all the ground is white
  With the wrecks of joys that have perished,--the skeletons of
        delight.'"

He saw that in her present mood expostulation would only aggravate the evil he longed to correct,
and hoping to divert the current of her thoughts, he said,--

"I trust you will not deem me impertinently curious if I ask what singular freak bestowed upon
you the name of 'Agla'?"

A startling change swept over her features, and her tone was haughtily challenging.

"What interest can Dr. Grey find in a matter so trivial? If I were named Hecate or Persephone,
would the world have a right to demur, to complain, or to criticise?"

"When a lady bears the mystic name, which, in past ages, was given to the Deity, by a race
who, if superstitious, were at least devout and reverent, she should not be surprised if it
excites wonder and comment. Forgive me, however, if my inquiry annoyed you."

He rose and took his hat, but her hand caught his arm.

"Do you know the import of the word?"

"Yes; I understand the significance of the letters, and the wonderful power attributed to them
when arranged in the triangles and called the 'Shield of David.' Knowing that it was considered
talismanic, I could not imagine why you were christened with so mystical a name."

"I was never christened."

He could not explain the confusion and displeasure which the question excited, and anxious
to relieve her of any feeling of annoyance, he added,--

"Have you ever looked into the nature of the Aglaophotis?"

She struggled up from her cushions, and exclaimed, with a vehemence that startled him,--

"What induced you to examine it? I know that it is a strange plant, growing out of solid marble,
and accounted a charm by Arab magicians. Well, Dr. Grey, do not I belong to that species? You
see before you a human specimen of Aglaophotis, growing out of a marble heart."

Sometimes an exaggerated whimsicality trenches so closely upon insanity, that it is difficult
to discriminate between them; and, as Dr. Grey noted the peculiarly cold glitter of her large
eyes, and the restless movement of her usually quiet hands, he dreaded that the crushing weight
on her heart would ultimately impair her mind. Now he abruptly changed the topic.

"Mrs. Gerome, whenever it is agreeable to you to drive down the beach or across the woods and
among the hills, it will afford me much pleasure to place my horse, buggy, and myself at your
disposal; and, in fine weather like this, a drive of a few miles would invigorate you."

"Thank you. I shall not trouble you, for I have my low-swung easy carriage, and my grays--my
fatal grays. Ah if they would only serve me as they did my poor Elsie! When I am strong enough
to take the reins, I will allow them an opportunity. Dr. Grey, if I seem rude, forgive me.
You are very kind and singularly patient, and sometimes when you have left me, I feel ashamed
of my inability to prove my sincere appreciation of your goodness. For these beautiful flowers,
I thank you cordially."

She held out her hand, and, as he accepted it, he drew from his pocket the silver key which
he had so carefully preserved.

"Accident made me the custodian of this key, which I found on the floor the day of Elsie's
burial. Knowing that it belonged to your escritoire, whence I saw you take it, I thought it
best not to commit it to a servant's care, and have kept it in my pocket until I thought you
might need it."

Although the room was growing dim, he detected the expression of dread that crossed her countenance,
and saw her bite her thin lip with vexation.

"You have worn for one month the key of my desk, where lie all my papers and records; and when
I was so desperately ill, I presume you looked into the drawers, merely to ascertain whether
I had prepared my will?"

The mockery of her tone stung him keenly, but he allowed no evidence of the wound to escape
him. Bending over her as she sat partially erect, supported by cushions, he took her white
face tenderly in his hands, and said, very calmly and gently,--

"When you know me better, you will realize how groundless is your apprehension that I have
penetrated into the recesses of your writing-desk. Knowing that it contained valuable papers,
I guarded it as jealously as you could have done; and, upon the honor of a gentleman, I assure
you I am as ignorant of its contents as if I had never entered the house. When I consider it
essential to my peace of mind to become acquainted with your antecedents, I shall come to you
and ask what I desire to learn. While you were so ill, I told Robert that your friends should
be notified of your imminent danger, and inquired of him whether you had made a will, as I
deemed it my duty to inform your agent of your alarming condition. He either could not or would
not give me any satisfactory reply, and there the matter ended. When I am gone, do not reproach
yourself for having so unjustly impugned my motives, for I shall not allow myself to believe
that you really entertain so contemptible an opinion of me; and shall ascribe your hasty accusation
to mere momentary chagrin and pique."

"Ah, sir! you ought not to wonder that I am so suspicious; you--but how can you understand
the grounds of my distrust, unless--"

"Hush! We will not discuss a matter which can only excite and annoy you. Mrs. Gerome, under
all circumstances you may unhesitatingly trust me, and I beg to assure you I shall never divulge
anything confided to me. You need a friend, and perhaps some day you may consider me worthy
to serve you in that capacity; meantime, as your physician, I shall continue to watch over
and control you. To-day you have cruelly overtasked your exhausted system, and I can not permit
you to remain here any longer. Come immediately to your own room."

His manner was so quietly authoritative that she obeyed instantly, and when he lifted her from
the sofa, she took his arm, and walked towards the door. Before they had crossed the hall,
he felt her reel and lean more heavily against him, and silently he took the thin form in his
arms, and carried her to her room.

The gray head was on his shoulder, and the cold marble cheek touched his, as he laid her softly
down on her bed and arranged her pillows. He rang for Katie, and, in crossing the floor, stepped
on something hard. It was too dusky in the closely curtained apartment to see any object so
small, but he swept his hand across the carpet and picked up the key that had slipped from
her nerveless fingers. Placing it beside her, he smiled and said,--

"You are incorrigibly careless. Are you not afraid to tax my curiosity so severely, and tempt
me so pertinaciously, by strewing your keys in my path? The next time I pick up this one, which
belongs to your escritoire, I shall engage some one to act as your guardian. Katie, be sure
she takes that tonic mixture three times a day. Good-night."

When the sound of his retreating footsteps died away, Mrs. Gerome thrust the key under her
pillow, and murmured,--

"I wonder whether this Ulpian can be as true, as trusty, as nobly fearless as his grand old
Roman namesake, whom not even the purple of Severus could save from martyrdom? Ah! if Ulpian
Grey is really all that he appears. But how dare I hope, much less believe it? Verily, he reminds
me of Madame de Chatenay's description of Joubert, 'He seems to be a soul that by accident
had met with a body, and tried to make the best of it.'"

"Did you speak to me, ma'am?" asked Katie, who was bustling about, preparing to light the lamp.

"No. The room is like a tomb. Open the blinds and loop back all the curtains, so that I can
look out."

CHAPTER XXV.

"Doctor Grey, sister says she wants to see you, before you go to town."

Jessie Owen came softly up to the table where Dr. Grey sat writing, and stood with her hand
on his knee.

"Very well. Tell sister I will come to her as soon as I finish this letter. Where is she?"

"In the library."

"In ten minutes I shall be at leisure."

He found Salome with a piece of sewing in her hand, and her young sister leaning on her lap,
chattering merrily about a nest full of eggs which she and Stanley had found that morning in
a corner of the orchard; while the latter swung on the back of her chair, winding over his
finger a short curl that lay on her neck. It was a pleasant, peaceful, homelike picture, worthy
of Eastman Johnson's brush, and for thirty years such a group had not been seen in that quiet
old library.

Dr. Grey paused at the threshold, to admire the graceful pose of Jessie's fairy figure,--the
lazy nonchalance of Stanley's posture,--and the finely shaped head that rose above both, like
some stately lily, surrounded by clustering croci; but Salome was listening for his footsteps,
and turned her head at his entrance.

"Stanley, take Jessie up to my room, and show her your Chinese puzzle. When I want either or
both of you, I will call you. Close the door after you, and mind that you do not get to romping,
and shake the house down."

"How very pretty Jessie has grown during the last year. Her complexion has lost its muddy tinge,
and is almost waxen," said the doctor, when the children had left the room and scampered up stairs.

"She is a very sweet-tempered and affectionate little thing, but I never considered her pretty.
She is too much like her father."

"Salome, death veils all blemishes."

"That depends very much on the character of the survivors; but we will not discuss abstract
propositions,--especially since I have resolved to follow the old oriental maxim,--

  'Leave ancestry behind, despise heraldic art,
  Thy father be thy mind, thy mother be thy heart.
  Dead names concern not thee, bid foreign titles wait;
  Thy deeds thy pedigree, thy hopes thy rich estate!'

Dr. Grey, the week has ended, and I took the liberty of reminding you of the fact, as I am
anxious to acquaint you with my purposes for the future."

He drew a chair near hers, and seated himself.

"Well, Salome, I hope that reflection has changed your views, and taught you the wisdom of
my sister's course with reference to yourself."

"On the contrary, the season of deliberation you forced upon me has only strengthened and intensified
my desire to carry into execution the project I have so long dreamed of; and to-day I am more
than ever firmly resolved to follow, at all hazards, the dictates of my own judgment, no matter
with whose opinions or wishes they may conflict."

She expected that he would expostulate, and plead against her decision, but he merely bowed,
and remained silent.

"My object in asking this interview was to ascertain how soon it would be convenient for you
to place in my hands the legacy of one thousand dollars which was bequeathed to me on condition
that I went upon the stage; and also to inquire what you intend to do with the children, of
whom Miss Jane's will constitutes you the guardian?"

"You wish me to understand that you are determined to defy the wishes of your best friend,
and take a step which distressed her beyond expression?"

"I shall certainly go upon the stage."

"I have no alternative but to accept your decision, which you are well aware I regard as exceedingly
deplorable. The money can be paid to you to-morrow, if you desire it. Hoping that you would
abandon this freak, I had intended to keep the children here, under your supervision, while
I removed to my house in town, and left their tuition to Miss Dexter; but since you have decided
otherwise, I shall remain here for the present, keeping them with me, at least until after
Muriel's marriage. The income from this farm averages two thousand dollars a year, and will
not only amply provide for their wants and education, but will enable me to lay aside annually
a portion of that amount. When Muriel marries, Miss Dexter may not be willing to remain here,
and if she leaves us I shall endeavor to find as worthy and reliable a substitute. Have you
any objection to this arrangement?"

"I have no right to utter any, since you are the legal guardian of the children. But contingencies
might arise for which it seems you have not provided."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that I can trust Jessie and Stanley to you, but when you are married I prefer that
they should find another home; or, if need be, Jessie can come to me."

An angry flush dyed Dr. Grey's olive face, and kindled a fiery gleam in his usually mild, clear,
blue eyes, but looking at the girl's compressed and trembling lips, and noting the underlying
misery which her defiant expression could not cover, his displeasure gave place to profound
compassion.

"Salome, dismiss that cause of anxiety from your mind, and trust the assurance I offer you
now,--that when I marry, my wife will be worthy to assist me in guiding and governing my wards."

She was prepared to hear him retort that the career she had chosen would render her an unsuitable
counsellor for little Jessie; and conscious that she had deeply wounded him, his calm reply
was the sharpest rebuke he could possibly have administered.

"Dr. Grey, I have no extraordinary amount of tenderness for the children, because they are
indissolubly associated with that period of my life to which I never recur without pain and
humiliation that you can not possibly realize or comprehend; still, I am not exactly a brute,
and I do not wish them to be trained to regard me as a Pariah, or to be told that I have forfeited
their respect and affection. When I am gone, let them think kindly of me."

"Your request is a reflection upon my friendship, and is so exceedingly unjust that I am surprised
and pained; but let that pass. I am sure I need not tell you that your wishes shall be complied
with. I have often thought that after Stanley completed his studies, I would take him into
my office, and teach him my own profession. Have you any objection to this scheme?"

"No, sir. I am willing to trust him implicitly to you. He has one terrible fault which I have
been trying to correct, and which I hope you will not lose sight of. The boy seems constitutionally
addicted to telling stories, and prefers falsehood to truth. I have punished him repeatedly
for this habit, and you must, if possible, save him from the pauper vice of lying, which is
peculiarly detestable to me. I know less of the little one's character, but believe that she
is not afflicted with this evil tendency."

"Stanley's fault has not escaped me, and two days ago I was obliged to punish him for a gross
violation of the truth; but as he grows older, I trust he will correct this defect, and I shall
faithfully endeavor to show him its enormity. Is there anything else you wish to say to me
about the children? I will very gladly hear any suggestions you can offer."

"No, sir. I have governed myself so badly, that it ill becomes me to dictate to you how they
should be trained. God knows, I am heartily glad they were mercifully thrown into your hands;
and if you can only make Stanley Owen such a man as you are, the old blot on the name may be
effaced. From Mark and Joel I have not heard for several months, and presume they will be sturdy
but unlettered mechanics. If I succeed, I shall interfere and send them to school; otherwise,
they must take the chances for letters and a livelihood."

"Salome, you are bartering life-long peace and happiness for the momentary gratification of
a whim, prompted solely by vanity. How worthless are the brief hollow plaudits of the world
(which will regard you merely as the toy of an hour), in comparison with the affection and
society of your own family? Here, in your home, how useful, how contented you might be!"

Her only reply was a hasty, imperious wave of the hand, and a long silence followed.

In the bright morning light that streamed in through the tendrils of honeysuckle clambering
around the window, Dr. Grey looked searchingly at the orphan, and could scarcely realize that
this pale, proud, pain-stricken face, was the same rosy round one, fair and fearless, that
had first met his gaze under the pearly apple-blossoms.

Then, pink flesh, hazel eyes, vermillioned lips, and glossy hair had preferred incontestable
claims to beauty; now, an artist would have curiously traced the fine lines and curves daintily
drawn about eyes, brow and mouth, by the stylus of care, of hopelessness, of wild bursts of
passion. Her figure retained its rounded symmetry, but the countenance traitorously revealed
the struggles, the bitter disappointments, the vindictive jealousy, and rudely-smitten and
blasted hopes, that had robbed her days of peace and her nights of sleep.

Until this moment, Dr. Grey had not fully appreciated the change that had been wrought by two
tedious years, and as he scrutinized the sadly sharpened and shadowed features, a painful feeling
of humiliation and almost of self-reproach sprang from the consciousness that his inability
to reciprocate her devoted love had brought down this premature blight upon a young and whilom
happy, careless girl,--transforming her into a reckless, hardened, hopeless woman.

While his inexorable conscience fully exonerated him from censure, his generous heart ached
in sympathy for hers, and his chivalric tenderness for all things weaker than himself, bled
at the reflection that he had been unintentionally instrumental in darkening a woman's life.

But hope,--beautiful, blue-eyed, sunny-browed hope,--whispered that this was a fleeting youthful
fancy; and that absence and time would dispel the temporary gloom that now lay on her heart,
like some dense cold vapor which would grow silvery, and melt in morning sunshine.

Under his steady gaze the blood rose slowly to its old signal-station on her cheeks, and she
put up one hand to shield its scarlet banners.

"Salome, will you tell me when and where you intend to go? Since you have resolved to leave
us, I desire to know in what way I can aid you, or contribute to the comfort of the journey
you contemplate."

"From the last letter of Professor V----, declining your proposal that he should come here
and instruct me, I learn that within the ensuing ten days he will sail for Havre, en route
to Italy, where he intends spending the winter. If possible, I wish to reach New York before
his departure, and to accompany him. The thousand dollars will defray my expenses until I have
completed my musical training, which will fit me for the stage, and insure an early engagement
in some operatic company. Knowing your high estimate of Professor V----, both as a gentleman
and as a musician, I am exceedingly anxious to place myself under his protection; especially
since his wife and children will meet him at Paris, and go on to Naples. Are you willing to
give me a letter of introduction, commending me to his favorable consideration?"

The hesitating timidity with which this request was uttered, touched him more painfully than
aught that had ever passed between them.

"My dear child, did you suppose that I would permit you to travel alone to New York, and thrust
yourself upon the notice of strangers? I will accompany you whenever you go, and not only present
you to the professor, but request him to receive you into his family as a member of his home-circle."

A quiver shook out the hard lines around her lips, and she turned her eyes full on his.

"You are very kind, sir, but that is not necessary; and a letter of introduction will have
the same effect, and save you from a disagreeable trip. Your time is too valuable to be wasted
on such journeys, and I have no right to expect that solely on my account you should tear yourself
away--from--those dear to you."

"I think my time could not be more profitably employed than in promoting the happiness and
welfare of my adopted sister, who was so inexpressibly dear to my noble Janet. It is neither
pleasant nor proper for a young lady to travel without an escort."

He had risen, and laid his hand lightly on the back of her chair.

  "She smiled; but he could see arise
  Her soul from far adown her eyes,
  Prepared as if for sacrifice."

"Is it a mercy, think you, Dr. Grey, to foster a fastidiousness that can only barb the shafts
of penury? What right have toiling paupers to harbor in their thoughts those dainty scruples
that belong appropriately to princesses and palaces? Why tell me that this, that, or the other
step is not 'proper,' when you know that necessity goads me? Sir, I feel now like that isolated
Florentine, and echo her words,--

               ... 'And since help
  Must come to me from those who love me not,
  Farewell, all helpers. I must help myself,
  And am alone from henceforth.'"

"You prefer that I should not accompany you to New York?"

"Yes, sir; but I gratefully accept a letter to Professor V----."

"Very well; it shall be in readiness when you wish it. Have you fixed any time for your departure?"

"This is Friday,--and I shall go on the six o'clock train, Monday morning."

"Is there any service that I can render you in the interim?"

"No, thank you."

"As you have no likeness of the children, would it be agreeable to you to have their photographs
taken to-day,--and, at the same time, a picture of yourself to be left with them? If you desire
it I will meet you in town, at the gallery, at any hour you may designate."

Standing before him, she answered, almost scornfully,--

"I shall not have time. Some day--if I succeed--I will send them my photograph, taken in gorgeous
robes as prima donna; provided you promise that said robes shall not constitute a San Benito,
and doom the picture to the flames. I will detain you no longer, Dr. Grey, as the sole object
of the interview has been accomplished."

"Pardon me; but I have a word to say. Your career will probably be brilliantly successful,
in which event you will feel no want of admirers and friends,--and will doubtless ignore me
for those who flatter you more, and really love you less. But, Salome, failure may overtake
you, bringing in its train countless evils that at present you can not realize,--poverty, disease,
desolation, in the midst of strangers,--and all the woes that, like hungry wolves, attack homeless,
isolated women. I earnestly hope that the leprous hand of disaster and defeat may never be
laid upon your future, but the most cautious human schemes are fallible--often futile--and
if you should be unsuccessful in your programme, and find yourself unable to consummate your
plans, I ask you now, by the memory of our friendship, by the sacred memory of the dead, to
promise me that you will immediately write and acquaint me with all your needs, your wishes,
your real condition. Promise me, dear Salome, that you will turn instantly to me, as you would
to Stanley, were he in my place,--that you will let me prove myself your elder brother,--your
truest, best friend."

He put his hand on her head, but she recoiled haughtily from his touch.

"Dr. Grey, I promise you,

  'I will not soil thy purple with my dust,
  Nor breathe my poison on thy Venice-glass.'

I promise you that if misfortune, failure, and penury lay hold of me, you shall be the last
human being who will learn it; for I will cloak myself under a name that will not betray me,
and crawl into some lazaretto, and be buried in some potter's field, among other mendicants,--unknown,
'unwept, unhonored, and unsung.'"

If some motherless young chamois, rescued from destruction, and pampered and caressed, had
suddenly turned, and savagely bitten and lacerated the hand that fondled and fed it, Dr. Grey
would not have been more painfully startled; but experience had taught him the uselessness
of expostulation during her moods of perversity, and he took his hat and turned away, saying,
almost sternly,--

"Bear in mind that neither palace nor potter's field can screen you from the scrutiny of your
Maker, or mask and shelter your shivering soul in the solemn hour when He demands its last
reckoning."

"Which 'reckoning,' your eminently Christian charity assures you will prove more terrible for
me than the Bloody Assizes. 'By the memory of our friendship!' Oh, shallow sham! Pinning my
faith to the dictum, 'The tide of friendship does not rise high on the bank of perfection,'
my fatuity led me to expect that your friendship was wide as the universe, and lasting as eternity.
Wise Helvetius told me that, 'To be loved, we should merit but little esteem; all superiority
attracts awe and aversion;' ergo, since my credentials of unworthiness were indisputable, I
laid claim to a vast share of your favor. But, alas! the logic of the seers is well-nigh as
hollow as my hopes."

He looked over his shoulder at her, with an expression of pity as profound as that which must
have filled the eyes of the angel, who, standing in the blaze of the sword of wrath, watched
Adam and Eve go mournfully forth into the blistering heats of unknown lands. Before he could
reply, she laughed contemptuously, and continued,--

"Nil desperandum, Dr. Grey. Remember that, 'Faith and persistency are life's architects; while
doubt and despair bury all under the ruins of any endeavor.' When I have trilled a fortune
into that abhorred vacuum, my pocket, I shall go down to the Tigris, and catch the mate to
Tobias' fish, and by the cremation thereof, fumigate my pestiferous soul, and smoke out the
Asmodeus that has so long and comfortably dwelt there."

"God grant you a Raphael, as guide on your journey," was his calm, earnest reply, as he disappeared,
closing the door after him.

When the sound of his buggy-wheels on the gravelled avenue told her he had gone, she threw
herself on the floor, and crossing her arms on a chair, hid her face in them.

During Saturday, no opportunity presented itself for renewing the conversation, and early on
Sunday morning Dr. Grey sent to her room a package marked $1,000.00--though really containing
$1,500.00--and a letter addressed to Professor V----. Without examining either, she threw them
into her trunk, which was already packed, and went down to breakfast.

She declined accompanying Miss Dexter and Muriel to church, alleging, as an excuse, that it
was the last day she could spend with the children.

Dr. Grey approached her when the remainder of the family had left the table, where she sat
abstractedly jingling her fork and spoon.

He noticed that her breakfast was untasted, and said, very gently,--

"I suppose that you wish to visit our dear Jane's grave, before you leave us, and, if agreeable
to you, I shall be glad to have you accompany me there to-day."

"Thank you; but if I go, it will be alone."

He stooped to kiss Jessie, who leaned against her sister's chair, and, when he left the room,
Salome caught the child in her arms, and pressed her lips twice to the spot where his had rested.

Late in the afternoon she eluded the children's watchful eyes, and stole away from the house,
taking the road that led towards "Solitude." In one portion of the osage hedge that surrounded
the place, the lower branches had died, leaving a small opening, and here Salome gained access
to the grounds. Walking cautiously under the thick and dark masses of shrubbery and trees,
she reached the arched path near the clump of pyramidal deodars, whose long, drooping plumes
were fluttering in the evening wind.

Thence she could command a view of the house and grounds in front, and thence she saw that
concerning which she had come to satisfy herself,--believing that the evidence of her own eyes
would fortify her for the approaching trial of separation. Dr. Grey's horse and buggy stood
near the side gate, and Dr. Grey was walking very slowly up and down the avenue leading to
the beach, while Mrs. Gerome's tall form leaned on his arm, and the greyhound followed sulkily.

Salome had barely time to look upon the spectacle that fired her heart and well-nigh maddened
her, ere the dog lifted his head, gave one quick, savage bark, and darted in the direction
of the cedars.

Dread of detection and of Dr. Grey's pitying gaze was more potent than fear of the brute, and
she ran swiftly towards the gap in the hedge, by which she had effected an entrance into the
secluded grounds. Just as she reached it, the greyhound bounded up, and they met in front of
the opening. He set his teeth in her clothes, tearing away a streamer of her black dress, and,
as she silently struggled, he bit her arm badly, mangling the flesh, from which the blood spouted.
Disengaging a shawl which she wore around her shoulders, she threw it over his head, and, as
the meshes caught in his collar, and temporarily entangled him, she sprang through the gap,
and seized a heavy stick which lay within reach. He followed, snarling and pawing at the shawl
that ultimately dropped at Salome's feet; but finding himself beyond the boundary he was expected
to guard, and probably satisfied with the punishment already inflicted, he retreated before
a well-aimed blow that drove him back into the enclosure.

The instant he started towards the cedars Dr. Grey suspected mischief, and, placing Mrs. Gerome
on a bench that surrounded an elm, he hurried in the same direction.

When he reached the spot, the dog was snuffing at a patch of bombazine that lay on the grass;
and, confirmed in his sad suspicion, the doctor passed through the opening in the hedge and
looked about for the figure which he dreaded, yet expected to see.

Bushy undergrowth covered the ground for some distance, and, hoping that nothing more serious
than fright had resulted from the escapade, he stowed away the bombazine fragment in his coat
pocket, and slowly retraced his steps.

Secreted by two friendly oaks that spread their low boughs over her, Salome had seen his anxious
face peering around for the intruder, and when he abandoned the search and disappeared, she
smothered a bitter laugh, and strove to stanch the blood that trickled from the gash by binding
her handkerchief over it. Torn muscles and tendons ached and smarted; but the great agony that
seemed devouring her heart rendered her almost oblivious of physical pain. In the dusk of coming
night she crossed the gloomy forest, where a whippoorwill was drearily lamenting, and, walking
over an unfrequented portion of the lawn, went up to her own room.

She bathed and bound up the wound as securely as the use of only one hand would permit, and
put on a dress whose sleeves fastened closely at the wrist.

Ere long, Dr. Grey's clear voice echoed through the hall, and the sound made her wince, like
the touch of some glowing brand.

"Jessie, where is sister Salome? Tell her tea is ready."

The orphan went down and took her seat, but did not even glance at the master of the house,
who looked anxiously at her as she entered.

During the meal Jessie asked for some sweetmeats that were placed in front of her sister, and,
as the latter drew the glass dish nearer, and proceeded to help her, the child exclaimed,--

"Oh, look there! What is that dripping from your sleeve? Ugh! it is blood."

"Nonsense, Jessie! don't be silly. Hush! and eat your supper."

Two drops of blood had fallen on the table-cloth, and the girl instantly set her cup and saucer
over them.

She felt the slow stream trickling down to her wrist, and put her arm in her lap.

"Is anything the matter?" asked Dr. Grey, who had observed the quick movement.

"I hurt my arm a little, that is all."

Her tone forbade a renewal of inquiry, and, as soon as possible, she withdrew to her room,
to adjust the bandage.

The children were playing in the library, and Muriel was walking with her governess on the
wide piazza.

While Salome was trying by the aid of fingers and teeth to draw a strip of linen tightly over
her wound, a tap at the door startled her.

"I am engaged, and can see no one just now."

"Salome, I want to speak to you, and shall wait here until I do."

"Excuse me, Dr. Grey. I will come down in ten minutes."

"Pardon me, but I insist upon seeing you here, and hope you will not compel me to force the
door open."

She wrapped a towel around her arm, drew down her sleeve, and opened the door.

"To what am I indebted for the honor of this interview?"

"To my interest in your welfare, which cannot be baffled. Salome, what is the matter? You looked
so pale that I noticed you particularly, and saw the blood on the table-cloth. My dear child,
I will not be trifled with. Tell me where you are hurt."

"Pray give yourself no uneasiness. I merely scraped and bruised my arm. It is a matter of no
consequence."

"Of that I beg to be considered the best judge. Show me your arm."

"I prefer not to trouble you."

He gently but firmly took hold of it, unwound the towel, and she saw him start and shudder
at sight of the mangled flesh.

"An ugly gash! Tell me how you hurt yourself so severely."

"It is a matter that I do not choose to discuss; but since you have seen it, I wish you would
be so good as to dress and bandage the wound."

"Oh, my little sister! Will you never learn to trust your brother?"

"Oh, Dr. Grey! will you never learn to let me alone, when I am indulging the 'Imp of the Perverse'
in an audience, and do not wish to be interrupted?"

She mimicked his pleading tone so admirably that his face flushed.

"Come to the sitting-room. No one can disturb us there, and I will attend to your injury, which
is really serious."

She followed him, and stood without flinching one iota, while he clipped away the jagged pieces
of flesh, covered the long gash with adhesive plaster, and carefully bandaged the whole.

"Salome, you must dismiss all idea of starting to-morrow, for indeed it would not be safe for
you to travel alone, with your arm in this condition. It may give you much trouble and suffering."

"Which, of course, nolens volens, I must bear as best I may; but, so surely as I live to see
daylight, I shall start, even if I knew I should have to stop en route and bury my pretty arm,
and be forced to buy a cork one, wherewith to gesticulate gracefully when I die as 'Azucena.'
There! thank you, Dr. Grey; of course you are very good,--you always are. Shall I bid you all
good-by now, or wait till morning? Better make my adieu to-night, so that I may not disturb
the matutinal slumbers of the household."

There was a dangerous, starry sparkle in her eyes, that he would not venture to defy, and,
sighing heavily, he answered,--

"I shall accompany you to the depôt, and place you under the protection of the conductor."

"I do not desire to give you that trouble, and--"

"Hush! Do not grieve me any more than you have already done, by your hasty, unkind, unfriendly
speeches. I shall see you in the morning."

He left the room abruptly, to conceal the distress which he did not desire her to discover;
and having found Muriel and Miss Dexter, Salome bade them good-by, requested them not to disturb
themselves next morning on her account, and called the children to her room.

For two hours they sat beside her on the lounge, crying over her impending departure, but when
she had promised to take them as far as the depôt, their thoughts followed other currents,
and very soon after, both slumbered soundly in their trundle-bed.

With her cheek resting on her hand, Salome sat looking at them, noting the glossiness of their
curling hair, the flush on their round faces, the regular breathing of peaceful childhood's
sleep. I had made their home the spot on earth.

It was evening, and the Writer look brilliant in dream as you gazed on the dying light. His room rested
tenderly on the shoulder of a dark but lost female, who loved him
with the strength of a fervid soul. In a dull, cold, abstract way, she hoped that the little ones would
be happy,--how could they be otherwise when fortune had committed them to Dr. Grey's guardianship?
But a numb, desperate feeling had seized her, and she cared for nothing, loved nothing, prayed
for nothing.

How the hours of that night of wretchedness passed she never knew; but when the little bird
in the parlor clock "cuckooed" three times, she was aroused from her reverie by the tramp of
horses' hoofs on the gravel, and then the sharp clang of the bell echoed through the silent house.

It was not unusual for messengers to summon Dr. Grey during the night, and she was not surprised
when, some moments later, she heard his voice in the hall. After the lapse of a quarter of
an hour, his firm, well-known step approached and paused at her threshold.

"Salome, are you up?"

"Yes, sir."

"Come into the passage."

She opened the door, and stood with the candle in her hand.

"I regret exceedingly that I am compelled to leave here immediately, as I must hasten to see
a man and child who have been horribly burned and injured by the falling in of a roof. The
parties live some distance in the country, and I fear I shall not be able to get back in time
to go with you to the cars. I shall drive as rapidly as possible, and hope to accompany you,
but if I should be detained, here is a note which I hastily scribbled to Mr. Miller, the conductor,
whom you will find a very kind and courteous gentleman. I sincerely deplore this summons, but
the sufferers are old friends of my sister, and I hope you will believe that nothing but a
case of life and death would prevent me from seeing you aboard the train."

"I am sorry, sir, that you thought it necessary to apologize."

She was not yet prepared to part from him forever,--she had been nerving herself for the final
interview at the depôt; but now it came with a shock that utterly stunned her, and she reeled
against the door-facing, as if recoiling from some fearful blow.

The livid pallor of her lips, and the spasm of agony that contracted her features, frightened
him, and, as he sprang closer to her, the candle fell from her fingers. He caught it, ere it
reached the mat, and placed it on a chair.

"My dear child, your arm pains you, and I beg you to defer your journey at least until Tuesday.
I shall be anxious and miserable about you, if you go this morning, and, for my sake, Salome,
if not for your own, remain here one day longer. I have not asked many things of you, and I
trust you will not refuse this last request I may ever be allowed to make."

She attempted to speak, but there came only a quiver across her mouth, and a sickly smile that
flickered over the ghastly proud face, like the lying sunshine of Indian summer on marble cenotaphs.

"Salome, you will, to oblige me, wait until Tuesday?"

She shook her head, and mastered her weakness.

"No, Dr. Grey; I must go at once. I take all the hazard."

"Then you will find on the mantelpiece in my room, a paper containing directions for the treatment
of your arm, which demands care and attention. I am sorry you are so obstinate, and, if I possessed
the authority, I would forbid your departure."

He could not endure the despairing expression of her eyes, which seemed supernaturally large
and brilliant, and his own quailed, for the first time within his recollection. She knew that
she was going away forever, to avoid the sight of his happiness with Mrs. Gerome; that, in
comparison with that torture, all other trials, even separation, would be endurable, but the
least evil was more severe than she had dreaded. Now, as she looked up at his noble face, overshadowed
with anxiety and regret, and paler than she had ever seen it, the one prayer of her heart was,
that, ere a wife's lips touched his, death might claim him for its prey.

