This design is for point lace braid, and is very easily made. Fancy bars made after an adaptation
from the d'Alençon bars, and point de Venise stitches are used for filling in. The butterfly
may be used as a portion of an edging design, or as a corner or center for any small article
to be decorated. The lines extending from the head are made with a fine over-and-over stitch,
or a fine cord.

No. 37.

VENETIAN POINT LACE.

This is a design containing many of the features of antique lace patterns, and is made of narrow
tape and fine cord combined with fancy stitches. The lace from which the engraving is made
is about twice as wide as the picture represents it, but as the pattern differs in its sections
for several inches at a time, the design could not be given full size. It will be seen that
in the section illustrated no two figures are alike. The filling-in stitches consist of combinations
and groupings of many of the stitches previously illustrated and described.

No. 38.

BUTTERFLY DESIGN FOR FINE BATTENBURG LACE.

This design, developed in Battenburg lace with d'Alençon and Sorrento bars and small "spiders"
or dots, makes a pretty ornament for centers or corners, or is effective when introduced as
a part of an edging design. Point or Honiton braids may also be made up by this design.

No. 39.

DESIGN FOR INSERTION.

A very pretty design for insertion is here given. The braid may be basted as seen in the picture,
and then the bars may be made of single threads, and of single threads over-wrought with button-hole
stitches. Or, any of the bars or other stitches described, may be used to connect the braid
and fill in the spaces. Tiny "spiders" are already used to fill in the circles.

No. 40.

DESIGN FOR A LACE BORDER AND CORNER.

A great deal must be left to the ingenuity of the worker in filling in this design, which is
not of the orthodox modern variety but may be readily transformed into that class by an adaptation
of modern stitches. With the methods of the latter well mastered, the worker will have no trouble
in bringing out the design just as it is illustrated; but she may also by the exercise of a
little judgment and taste substitute many other pretty filling-in stitches for those here pictured.

No. 41.

DESIGN FOR A BUTTERFLY IN POINT LACE.

Another butterfly design is here given for point lace, though it may also be developed in a
larger size in Battenburg braid for decorative purposes. The filling-in stitches are d'Alençon
and Raleigh bars, point de Venise and point de Bruxelles, and point d'Angleterre rosettes.

No. 42.

ITALIAN LACE.

This lace is of a conventional Italian pattern, and is filled in with the Italian lace and
ground-stitches, and Sorrento bars. The lower edge is very daintily completed with a button-hole
effect. The design is simple, elegant, and popular, and may be wrought in Battenburg or the
finer braids, and in any width desired, the braid selected and the width decided upon determining
the use to which the lace shall be put.

No. 43.

MODERN VENETIAN POINT.

