He was very unhappy. That afternoon Cassandra had repulsed him; he had tried to explain to
her the difficulties of the situation, and to suggest the nature of his feelings for her without
saying anything definite or anything offensive to her. But he had lost his head; under the
goad of Katharine's ridicule he had said too much, and Cassandra, superb in her dignity and
severity, had refused to hear another word, and threatened an immediate return to her home.
His agitation, after an evening spent between the two women, was extreme. Moreover, he could
not help suspecting that Ralph was wandering near the Hilberys' house, at this hour, for reasons
connected with Katharine. There was probably some understanding between them--not that anything
of the kind mattered to him now. He was convinced that he had never cared for any one save
Cassandra, and Katharine's future was no concern of his. Aloud, he said, shortly, that he was
very tired and wished to find a cab. But on Sunday night, on the Embankment, cabs were hard
to come by, and Rodney found himself constrained to walk some distance, at any rate, in Denham's
company. Denham maintained his silence. Rodney's irritation lapsed. He found the silence oddly
suggestive of the good masculine qualities which he much respected, and had at this moment
great reason to need. After the mystery, difficulty, and uncertainty of dealing with the other
sex, intercourse with one's own is apt to have a composing and even ennobling influence, since
plain speaking is possible and subterfuges of no avail. Rodney, too, was much in need of a
confidant; Katharine, despite her promises of help, had failed him at the critical moment;
she had gone off with Denham; she was, perhaps, tormenting Denham as she had tormented him.
How grave and stable he seemed, speaking little, and walking firmly, compared with what Rodney
knew of his own torments and indecisions! He began to cast about for some way of telling the
story of his relations with Katharine and Cassandra that would not lower him in Denham's eyes.
It then occurred to him that, perhaps, Katharine herself had confided in Denham; they had something
in common; it was likely that they had discussed him that very afternoon. The desire to discover
what they had said of him now came uppermost in his mind. He recalled Katharine's laugh; he
remembered that she had gone, laughing, to walk with Denham.

"Did you stay long after we'd left?" he asked abruptly.

"No. We went back to my house."

This seemed to confirm Rodney's belief that he had been discussed. He turned over the unpalatable
idea for a while, in silence.

"Women are incomprehensible creatures, Denham!" he then exclaimed.

"Um," said Denham, who seemed to himself possessed of complete understanding, not merely of
women, but of the entire universe. He could read Rodney, too, like a book. He knew that he
was unhappy, and he pitied him, and wished to help him.

"You say something and they--fly into a passion. Or for no reason at all, they laugh. I take
it that no amount of education will--" The remainder of the sentence was lost in the high wind,
against which they had to struggle; but Denham understood that he referred to Katharine's laughter,
and that the memory of it was still hurting him. In comparison with Rodney, Denham felt himself
very secure; he saw Rodney as one of the lost birds dashed senseless against the glass; one
of the flying bodies of which the air was full. But he and Katharine were alone together, aloft,
splendid, and luminous with a twofold radiance. He pitied the unstable creature beside him;
he felt a desire to protect him, exposed without the knowledge which made his own way so direct.
They were united as the adventurous are united, though one reaches the goal and the other perishes
by the way.

"You couldn't laugh at some one you cared for."

This sentence, apparently addressed to no other human being, reached Denham's ears. The wind
seemed to muffle it and fly away with it directly. Had Rodney spoken those words?

"You love her." Was that his own voice, which seemed to sound in the air several yards in front
of him?

"I've suffered tortures, Denham, tortures!"

"Yes, yes, I know that."

"She's laughed at me."

"Never--to me."

The wind blew a space between the words--blew them so far away that they seemed unspoken.

"How I've loved her!"

This was certainly spoken by the man at Denham's side. The voice had all the marks of Rodney's
character, and recalled, with; strange vividness, his personal appearance. Denham could see
him against the blank buildings and towers of the horizon. He saw him dignified, exalted, and
tragic, as he might have appeared thinking of Katharine alone in his rooms at night.

"I am in love with Katharine myself. That is why I am here to-night."

Ralph spoke distinctly and deliberately, as if Rodney's confession had made this statement
necessary.

Rodney exclaimed something inarticulate.

"Ah, I've always known it," he cried, "I've known it from the first. You'll marry her!"

The cry had a note of despair in it. Again the wind intercepted their words. They said no more.
At length they drew up beneath a lamp-post, simultaneously.

"My God, Denham, what fools we both are!" Rodney exclaimed. They looked at each other, queerly,
in the light of the lamp. Fools! They seemed to confess to each other the extreme depths of
their folly. For the moment, under the lamp-post, they seemed to be aware of some common knowledge
which did away with the possibility of rivalry, and made them feel more sympathy for each other
than for any one else in the world. Giving simultaneously a little nod, as if in confirmation
of this understanding, they parted without speaking again.

CHAPTER XXIX

Between twelve and one that Sunday night Katharine lay in bed, not asleep, but in that twilight
region where a detached and humorous view of our own lot is possible; or if we must be serious,
our seriousness is tempered by the swift oncome of slumber and oblivion. She saw the forms
of Ralph, William, Cassandra, and herself, as if they were all equally unsubstantial, and,
in putting off reality, had gained a kind of dignity which rested upon each impartially. Thus
rid of any uncomfortable warmth of partisanship or load of obligation, she was dropping off
to sleep when a light tap sounded upon her door. A moment later Cassandra stood beside her,
holding a candle and speaking in the low tones proper to the time of night.

"Are you awake, Katharine?"

"Yes, I'm awake. What is it?"

She roused herself, sat up, and asked what in Heaven's name Cassandra was doing?

"I couldn't sleep, and I thought I'd come and speak to you--only for a moment, though. I'm
going home to-morrow."

"Home? Why, what has happened?"

"Something happened to-day which makes it impossible for me to stay here."

Cassandra spoke formally, almost solemnly; the announcement was clearly prepared and marked
a crisis of the utmost gravity. She continued what seemed to be part of a set speech.

"I have decided to tell you the whole truth, Katharine. William allowed himself to behave in
a way which made me extremely uncomfortable to-day."

Katharine seemed to waken completely, and at once to be in control of herself.

"At the Zoo?" she asked.

"No, on the way home. When we had tea."

As if foreseeing that the interview might be long, and the night chilly, Katharine advised
Cassandra to wrap herself in a quilt. Cassandra did so with unbroken solemnity.

"There's a train at eleven," she said. "I shall tell Aunt Maggie that I have to go suddenly....
I shall make Violet's visit an excuse. But, after thinking it over, I don't see how I can go
without telling you the truth."

She was careful to abstain from looking in Katharine's direction. There was a slight pause.

"But I don't see the least reason why you should go," said Katharine eventually. Her voice
sounded so astonishingly equable that Cassandra glanced at her. It was impossible to suppose
that she was either indignant or surprised; she seemed, on the contrary, sitting up in bed,
with her arms clasped round her knees and a little frown on her brow, to be thinking closely
upon a matter of indifference to her.

"Because I can't allow any man to behave to me in that way," Cassandra replied, and she added,
"particularly when I know that he is engaged to some one else."

"But you like him, don't you?" Katharine inquired.

"That's got nothing to do with it," Cassandra exclaimed indignantly. "I consider his conduct,
under the circumstances, most disgraceful."

This was the last of the sentences of her premeditated speech; and having spoken it she was
left unprovided with any more to say in that particular style. When Katharine remarked:

"I should say it had everything to do with it," Cassandra's self-possession deserted her.

"I don't understand you in the least, Katharine. How can you behave as you behave? Ever since
I came here I've been amazed by you!"

"You've enjoyed yourself, haven't you?" Katharine asked.

"Yes, I have," Cassandra admitted.

"Anyhow, my behavior hasn't spoiled your visit."

"No," Cassandra allowed once more. She was completely at a loss. In her forecast of the interview
she had taken it for granted that Katharine, after an outburst of incredulity, would agree
that Cassandra must return home as soon as possible. But Katharine, on the contrary, accepted
her statement at once, seemed neither shocked nor surprised, and merely looked rather more
thoughtful than usual. From being a mature woman charged with an important mission, Cassandra
shrunk to the stature of an inexperienced child.

"Do you think I've been very foolish about it?" she asked.

Katharine made no answer, but still sat deliberating silently, and a certain feeling of alarm
took possession of Cassandra. Perhaps her words had struck far deeper than she had thought,
into depths beyond her reach, as so much of Katharine was beyond her reach. She thought suddenly
that she had been playing with very dangerous tools.

Looking at her at length, Katharine asked slowly, as if she found the question very difficult
to ask.

"But do you care for William?"

She marked the agitation and bewilderment of the girl's expression, and how she looked away
from her.

"Do you mean, am I in love with him?" Cassandra asked, breathing quickly, and nervously moving
her hands.

"Yes, in love with him," Katharine repeated.

"How can I love the man you're engaged to marry?" Cassandra burst out.

"He may be in love with you."

"I don't think you've any right to say such things, Katharine," Cassandra exclaimed. "Why do
you say them? Don't you mind in the least how William behaves to other women? If I were engaged,
I couldn't bear it!"

"We're not engaged," said Katharine, after a pause.

"Katharine!" Cassandra cried.

"No, we're not engaged," Katharine repeated. "But no one knows it but ourselves."

"But why--I don't understand--you're not engaged!" Cassandra said again. "Oh, that explains
it! You're not in love with him! You don't want to marry him!"

"We aren't in love with each other any longer," said Katharine, as if disposing of something
for ever and ever.

"How queer, how strange, how unlike other people you are, Katharine," Cassandra said, her whole
body and voice seeming to fall and collapse together, and no trace of anger or excitement remaining,
but only a dreamy quietude.

"You're not in love with him?"

"But I love him," said Katharine.

Cassandra remained bowed, as if by the weight of the revelation, for some little while longer.
Nor did Katharine speak. Her attitude was that of some one who wishes to be concealed as much
as possible from observation. She sighed profoundly; she was absolutely silent, and apparently
overcome by her thoughts.

"D'you know what time it is?" she said at length, and shook her pillow, as if making ready
for sleep.

Cassandra rose obediently, and once more took up her candle. Perhaps the white dressing-gown,
and the loosened hair, and something unseeing in the expression of the eyes gave her a likeness
to a woman walking in her sleep. Katharine, at least, thought so.

"There's no reason why I should go home, then?" Cassandra said, pausing. "Unless you want me
to go, Katharine? What DO you want me to do?"

For the first time their eyes met.

"You wanted us to fall in love," Cassandra exclaimed, as if she read the certainty there. But
as she looked she saw a sight that surprised her. The tears rose slowly in Katharine's eyes
and stood there, brimming but contained--the tears of some profound emotion, happiness, grief,
renunciation; an emotion so complex in its nature that to express it was impossible, and Cassandra,
bending her head and receiving the tears upon her cheek, accepted them in silence as the consecration
of her love.

"Please, miss," said the maid, about eleven o'clock on the following morning, "Mrs. Milvain
is in the kitchen."

A long wicker basket of flowers and branches had arrived from the country, and Katharine, kneeling
upon the floor of the drawing-room, was sorting them while Cassandra watched her from an arm-chair,
and absent-mindedly made spasmodic offers of help which were not accepted. The maid's message
had a curious effect upon Katharine.

She rose, walked to the window, and, the maid being gone, said emphatically and even tragically:

"You know what that means."

Cassandra had understood nothing.

"Aunt Celia is in the kitchen," Katharine repeated.

"Why in the kitchen?" Cassandra asked, not unnaturally.

"Probably because she's discovered something," Katharine replied. Cassandra's thoughts flew
to the subject of her preoccupation.

"About us?" she inquired.

"Heaven knows," Katharine replied. "I shan't let her stay in the kitchen, though. I shall bring
her up here."

The sternness with which this was said suggested that to bring Aunt Celia upstairs was, for
some reason, a disciplinary measure.

"For goodness' sake, Katharine," Cassandra exclaimed, jumping from her chair and showing signs
of agitation, "don't be rash. Don't let her suspect. Remember, nothing's certain--"

Katharine assured her by nodding her head several times, but the manner in which she left the
room was not calculated to inspire complete confidence in her diplomacy.

Mrs. Milvain was sitting, or rather perching, upon the edge of a chair in the servants' room.
Whether there was any sound reason for her choice of a subterranean chamber, or whether it
corresponded with the spirit of her quest, Mrs. Milvain invariably came in by the back door
and sat in the servants' room when she was engaged in confidential family transactions. The
ostensible reason she gave was that neither Mr. nor Mrs. Hilbery should be disturbed. But,
in truth, Mrs. Milvain depended even more than most elderly women of her generation upon the
delicious emotions of intimacy, agony, and secrecy, and the additional thrill provided by the
basement was one not lightly to be forfeited. She protested almost plaintively when Katharine
proposed to go upstairs.

"I've something that I want to say to you in PRIVATE," she said, hesitating reluctantly upon
the threshold of her ambush.

"The drawing-room is empty--"

"But we might meet your mother upon the stairs. We might disturb your father," Mrs. Milvain
objected, taking the precaution to speak in a whisper already.

But as Katharine's presence was absolutely necessary to the success of the interview, and as
Katharine obstinately receded up the kitchen stairs, Mrs. Milvain had no course but to follow
her. She glanced furtively about her as she proceeded upstairs, drew her skirts together, and
stepped with circumspection past all doors, whether they were open or shut.

"Nobody will overhear us?" she murmured, when the comparative sanctuary of the drawing-room
had been reached. "I see that I have interrupted you," she added, glancing at the flowers strewn
upon the floor. A moment later she inquired, "Was some one sitting with you?" noticing a handkerchief
that Cassandra had dropped in her flight.

"Cassandra was helping me to put the flowers in water," said Katharine, and she spoke so firmly
and clearly that Mrs. Milvain glanced nervously at the main door and then at the curtain which
divided the little room with the relics from the drawing-room.

"Ah, Cassandra is still with you," she remarked. "And did William send you those lovely flowers?"

Katharine sat down opposite her aunt and said neither yes nor no. She looked past her, and
it might have been thought that she was considering very critically the pattern of the curtains.
Another advantage of the basement, from Mrs. Milvain's point of view, was that it made it necessary
to sit very close together, and the light was dim compared with that which now poured through
three windows upon Katharine and the basket of flowers, and gave even the slight angular figure
of Mrs. Milvain herself a halo of gold.

"They're from Stogdon House," said Katharine abruptly, with a little jerk of her head.

Mrs. Milvain felt that it would be easier to tell her niece what she wished to say if they
were actually in physical contact, for the spiritual distance between them was formidable.
Katharine, however, made no overtures, and Mrs. Milvain, who was possessed of rash but heroic
courage, plunged without preface:

"People are talking about you, Katharine. That is why I have come this morning. You forgive
me for saying what I'd much rather not say? What I say is only for your own sake, my child."

"There's nothing to forgive yet, Aunt Celia," said Katharine, with apparent good humor.

"People are saying that William goes everywhere with you and Cassandra, and that he is always
paying her attentions. At the Markhams' dance he sat out five dances with her. At the Zoo they
were seen alone together. They left together. They never came back here till seven in the evening.
But that is not all. They say his manner is very marked--he is quite different when she is there."

Mrs. Milvain, whose words had run themselves together, and whose voice had raised its tone
almost to one of protest, here ceased, and looked intently at Katharine, as if to judge the
effect of her communication. A slight rigidity had passed over Katharine's face. Her lips were
pressed together; her eyes were contracted, and they were still fixed upon the curtain. These
superficial changes covered an extreme inner loathing such as might follow the display of some
hideous or indecent spectacle. The indecent spectacle was her own action beheld for the first
time from the outside; her aunt's words made her realize how infinitely repulsive the body
of life is without its soul.

"Well?" she said at length.

Mrs. Milvain made a gesture as if to bring her closer, but it was not returned.

"We all know how good you are--how unselfish--how you sacrifice yourself to others. But you've
been too unselfish, Katharine. You have made Cassandra happy, and she has taken advantage of
your goodness."

"I don't understand, Aunt Celia," said Katharine. "What has Cassandra done?"

"Cassandra has behaved in a way that I could not have thought possible," said Mrs. Milvain
warmly. "She has been utterly selfish--utterly heartless. I must speak to her before I go."

"I don't understand," Katharine persisted.

Mrs. Milvain looked at her. Was it possible that Katharine really doubted? That there was something
that Mrs. Milvain herself did not understand? She braced herself, and pronounced the tremendous
words:

"Cassandra has stolen William's love."

Still the words seemed to have curiously little effect.

"Do you mean," said Katharine, "that he has fallen in love with her?"

"There are ways of MAKING men fall in love with one, Katharine."

Katharine remained silent. The silence alarmed Mrs. Milvain, and she began hurriedly:

"Nothing would have made me say these things but your own good. I have not wished to interfere;
I have not wished to give you pain. I am a useless old woman. I have no children of my own.
I only want to see you happy, Katharine."

Again she stretched forth her arms, but they remained empty.

"You are not going to say these things to Cassandra," said Katharine suddenly. "You've said
them to me; that's enough."

Katharine spoke so low and with such restraint that Mrs. Milvain had to strain to catch her
words, and when she heard them she was dazed by them.

"I've made you angry! I knew I should!" she exclaimed. She quivered, and a kind of sob shook
her; but even to have made Katharine angry was some relief, and allowed her to feel some of
the agreeable sensations of martyrdom.

"Yes," said Katharine, standing up, "I'm so angry that I don't want to say anything more. I
think you'd better go, Aunt Celia. We don't understand each other."

At these words Mrs. Milvain looked for a moment terribly apprehensive; she glanced at her niece's
face, but read no pity there, whereupon she folded her hands upon a black velvet bag which
she carried in an attitude that was almost one of prayer. Whatever divinity she prayed to,
if pray she did, at any rate she recovered her dignity in a singular way and faced her niece.

"Married love," she said slowly and with emphasis upon every word, "is the most sacred of all
loves. The love of husband and wife is the most holy we know. That is the lesson Mamma's children
learnt from her; that is what they can never forget. I have tried to speak as she would have
wished her daughter to speak. You are her grandchild."

Katharine seemed to judge this defence upon its merits, and then to convict it of falsity.

"I don't see that there is any excuse for your behavior," she said.

At these words Mrs. Milvain rose and stood for a moment beside her niece. She had never met
with such treatment before, and she did not know with what weapons to break down the terrible
wall of resistance offered her by one who, by virtue of youth and beauty and sex, should have
been all tears and supplications. But Mrs. Milvain herself was obstinate; upon a matter of
this kind she could not admit that she was either beaten or mistaken. She beheld herself the
champion of married love in its purity and supremacy; what her niece stood for she was quite
unable to say, but she was filled with the gravest suspicions. The old woman and the young
woman stood side by side in unbroken silence. Mrs. Milvain could not make up her mind to withdraw
while her principles trembled in the balance and her curiosity remained unappeased. She ransacked
her mind for some question that should force Katharine to enlighten her, but the supply was
limited, the choice difficult, and while she hesitated the door opened and William Rodney came
in. He carried in his hand an enormous and splendid bunch of white and purple flowers, and,
either not seeing Mrs. Milvain, or disregarding her, he advanced straight to Katharine, and
presented the flowers with the words:

"These are for you, Katharine."

Katharine took them with a glance that Mrs. Milvain did not fail to intercept. But with all
her experience, she did not know what to make of it. She watched anxiously for further illumination.
William greeted her without obvious sign of guilt, and, explaining that he had a holiday, both
he and Katharine seemed to take it for granted that his holiday should be celebrated with flowers
and spent in Cheyne Walk. A pause followed; that, too, was natural; and Mrs. Milvain began
to feel that she laid herself open to a charge of selfishness if she stayed. The mere presence
of a young man had altered her disposition curiously, and filled her with a desire for a scene
which should end in an emotional forgiveness. She would have given much to clasp both nephew
and niece in her arms. But she could not flatter herself that any hope of the customary exaltation
remained.

"I must go," she said, and she was conscious of an extreme flatness of spirit.

Neither of them said anything to stop her. William politely escorted her downstairs, and somehow,
amongst her protests and embarrassments, Mrs. Milvain forgot to say good-bye to Katharine.
She departed, murmuring words about masses of flowers and a drawing-room always beautiful even
in the depths of winter.

William came back to Katharine; he found her standing where he had left her.

"I've come to be forgiven," he said. "Our quarrel was perfectly hateful to me. I've not slept
all night. You're not angry with me, are you, Katharine?"

She could not bring herself to answer him until she had rid her mind of the impression that
her aunt had made on her. It seemed to her that the very flowers were contaminated, and Cassandra's
pocket-handkerchief, for Mrs. Milvain had used them for evidence in her investigations.

"She's been spying upon us," she said, "following us about London, overhearing what people
are saying--"

"Mrs. Milvain?" Rodney exclaimed. "What has she told you?"

His air of open confidence entirely vanished.

"Oh, people are saying that you're in love with Cassandra, and that you don't care for me."

"They have seen us?" he asked.

"Everything we've done for a fortnight has been seen."

"I told you that would happen!" he exclaimed.

He walked to the window in evident perturbation. Katharine was too indignant to attend to him.
She was swept away by the force of her own anger. Clasping Rodney's flowers, she stood upright
and motionless.

Rodney turned away from the window.

"It's all been a mistake," he said. "I blame myself for it. I should have known better. I let
you persuade me in a moment of madness. I beg you to forget my insanity, Katharine."

"She wished even to persecute Cassandra!" Katharine burst out, not listening to him. "She threatened
to speak to her. She's capable of it--she's capable of anything!"

"Mrs. Milvain is not tactful, I know, but you exaggerate, Katharine. People are talking about
us. She was right to tell us. It only confirms my own feeling--the position is monstrous."

At length Katharine realized some part of what he meant.

"You don't mean that this influences you, William?" she asked in amazement.

"It does," he said, flushing. "It's intensely disagreeable to me. I can't endure that people
should gossip about us. And then there's your cousin--Cassandra--" He paused in embarrassment.

"I came here this morning, Katharine," he resumed, with a change of voice, "to ask you to forget
my folly, my bad temper, my inconceivable behavior. I came, Katharine, to ask whether we can't
return to the position we were in before this--this season of lunacy. Will you take me back,
Katharine, once more and for ever?"

No doubt her beauty, intensified by emotion and enhanced by the flowers of bright color and
strange shape which she carried wrought upon Rodney, and had its share in bestowing upon her
the old romance. But a less noble passion worked in him, too; he was inflamed by jealousy.
His tentative offer of affection had been rudely and, as he thought, completely repulsed by
Cassandra on the preceding day. Denham's confession was in his mind. And ultimately, Katharine's
dominion over him was of the sort that the fevers of the night cannot exorcise.

"I was as much to blame as you were yesterday," she said gently, disregarding his question.
"I confess, William, the sight of you and Cassandra together made me jealous, and I couldn't
control myself. I laughed at you, I know."

"You jealous!" William exclaimed. "I assure you, Katharine, you've not the slightest reason
to be jealous. Cassandra dislikes me, so far as she feels about me at all. I was foolish enough
to try to explain the nature of our relationship. I couldn't resist telling her what I supposed
myself to feel for her. She refused to listen, very rightly. But she left me in no doubt of
her scorn."

Katharine hesitated. She was confused, agitated, physically tired, and had already to reckon
with the violent feeling of dislike aroused by her aunt which still vibrated through all the
rest of her feelings. She sank into a chair and dropped her flowers upon her lap.

"She charmed me," Rodney continued. "I thought I loved her. But that's a thing of the past.
It's all over, Katharine. It was a dream--an hallucination. We were both equally to blame,
but no harm's done if you believe how truly I care for you. Say you believe me!"

He stood over her, as if in readiness to seize the first sign of her assent. Precisely at that
moment, owing, perhaps, to her vicissitudes of feeling, all sense of love left her, as in a
moment a mist lifts from the earth. And when the mist departed a skeleton world and blankness
alone remained--a terrible prospect for the eyes of the living to behold. He saw the look of
terror in her face, and without understanding its origin, took her hand in his. With the sense
of companionship returned a desire, like that of a child for shelter, to accept what he had
to offer her--and at that moment it seemed that he offered her the only thing that could make
it tolerable to live. She let him press his lips to her cheek, and leant her head upon his
arm. It was the moment of his triumph. It was the only moment in which she belonged to him
and was dependent upon his protection.

"Yes, yes, yes," he murmured, "you accept me, Katharine. You love me."

For a moment she remained silent. He then heard her murmur:

"Cassandra loves you more than I do."

"Cassandra?" he whispered.

"She loves you," Katharine repeated. She raised herself and repeated the sentence yet a third
time. "She loves you."

William slowly raised himself. He believed instinctively what Katharine said, but what it meant
to him he was unable to understand. Could Cassandra love him? Could she have told Katharine
that she loved him? The desire to know the truth of this was urgent, unknown though the consequences
might be. The thrill of excitement associated with the thought of Cassandra once more took
possession of him. No longer was it the excitement of anticipation and ignorance; it was the
excitement of something greater than a possibility, for now he knew her and had measure of
the sympathy between them. But who could give him certainty? Could Katharine, Katharine who
had lately lain in his arms, Katharine herself the most admired of women? He looked at her,
with doubt, and with anxiety, but said nothing.

"Yes, yes," she said, interpreting his wish for assurance, "it's true. I know what she feels
for you."

"She loves me?"

Katharine nodded.

"Ah, but who knows what I feel? How can I be sure of my feeling myself? Ten minutes ago I asked
you to marry me. I still wish it--I don't know what I wish--"

He clenched his hands and turned away. He suddenly faced her and demanded: "Tell me what you
feel for Denham."

"For Ralph Denham?" she asked. "Yes!" she exclaimed, as if she had found the answer to some
momentarily perplexing question. "You're jealous of me, William; but you're not in love with
me. I'm jealous of you. Therefore, for both our sakes, I say, speak to Cassandra at once."

He tried to compose himself. He walked up and down the room; he paused at the window and surveyed
the flowers strewn upon the floor. Meanwhile his desire to have Katharine's assurance confirmed
became so insistent that he could no longer deny the overmastering strength of his feeling
for Cassandra.

"You're right," he exclaimed, coming to a standstill and rapping his knuckles sharply upon
a small table carrying one slender vase. "I love Cassandra."

As he said this, the curtains hanging at the door of the little room parted, and Cassandra
herself stepped forth.

"I have overheard every word!" she exclaimed.

A pause succeeded this announcement. Rodney made a step forward and said:

"Then you know what I wish to ask you. Give me your answer--"

She put her hands before her face; she turned away and seemed to shrink from both of them.

"What Katharine said," she murmured. "But," she added, raising her head with a look of fear
from the kiss with which he greeted her admission, "how frightfully difficult it all is! Our
feelings, I mean--yours and mine and Katharine's. Katharine, tell me, are we doing right?"

"Right--of course we're doing right," William answered her, "if, after what you've heard, you
can marry a man of such incomprehensible confusion, such deplorable--"

"Don't, William," Katharine interposed; "Cassandra has heard us; she can judge what we are;
she knows better than we could tell her."

But, still holding William's hand, questions and desires welled up in Cassandra's heart. Had
she done wrong in listening? Why did Aunt Celia blame her? Did Katharine think her right? Above
all, did William really love her, for ever and ever, better than any one?

"I must be first with him, Katharine!" she exclaimed. "I can't share him even with you."

"I shall never ask that," said Katharine. She moved a little away from where they sat and began
half-consciously sorting her flowers.

"But you've shared with me," Cassandra said. "Why can't I share with you? Why am I so mean?
I know why it is," she added. "We understand each other, William and I. You've never understood
each other. You're too different."

"I've never admired anybody more," William interposed.

"It's not that"--Cassandra tried to enlighten him--"it's understanding."

"Have I never understood you, Katharine? Have I been very selfish?"

"Yes," Cassandra interposed. "You've asked her for sympathy, and she's not sympathetic; you've
wanted her to be practical, and she's not practical. You've been selfish; you've been exacting--and
so has Katharine--but it wasn't anybody's fault."

Katharine had listened to this attempt at analysis with keen attention. Cassandra's words seemed
to rub the old blurred image of life and freshen it so marvelously that it looked new again.
She turned to William.

"It's quite true," she said. "It was nobody's fault."

"There are many things that he'll always come to you for," Cassandra continued, still reading
from her invisible book. "I accept that, Katharine. I shall never dispute it. I want to be
generous as you've been generous. But being in love makes it more difficult for me."

They were silent. At length William broke the silence.

"One thing I beg of you both," he said, and the old nervousness of manner returned as he glanced
at Katharine. "We will never discuss these matters again. It's not that I'm timid and conventional,
as you think, Katharine. It's that it spoils things to discuss them; it unsettles people's
minds; and now we're all so happy--"

Cassandra ratified this conclusion so far as she was concerned, and William, after receiving
the exquisite pleasure of her glance, with its absolute affection and trust, looked anxiously
at Katharine.

"Yes, I'm happy," she assured him. "And I agree. We will never talk about it again."

"Oh, Katharine, Katharine!" Cassandra cried, holding out her arms while the tears ran down
her cheeks.

CHAPTER XXX

The day was so different from other days to three people in the house that the common routine
of household life--the maid waiting at table, Mrs. Hilbery writing a letter, the clock striking,
and the door opening, and all the other signs of long-established civilization appeared suddenly
to have no meaning save as they lulled Mr. and Mrs. Hilbery into the belief that nothing unusual
had taken place. It chanced that Mrs. Hilbery was depressed without visible cause, unless a
certain crudeness verging upon coarseness in the temper of her favorite Elizabethans could
be held responsible for the mood. At any rate, she had shut up "The Duchess of Malfi" with
a sigh, and wished to know, so she told Rodney at dinner, whether there wasn't some young writer
with a touch of the great spirit--somebody who made you believe that life was BEAUTIFUL? She
got little help from Rodney, and after singing her plaintive requiem for the death of poetry
by herself, she charmed herself into good spirits again by remembering the existence of Mozart.
She begged Cassandra to play to her, and when they went upstairs Cassandra opened the piano
directly, and did her best to create an atmosphere of unmixed beauty. At the sound of the first
notes Katharine and Rodney both felt an enormous sense of relief at the license which the music
gave them to loosen their hold upon the mechanism of behavior. They lapsed into the depths
of thought. Mrs. Hilbery was soon spirited away into a perfectly congenial mood, that was half
reverie and half slumber, half delicious melancholy and half pure bliss. Mr. Hilbery alone
attended. He was extremely musical, and made Cassandra aware that he listened to every note.
She played her best, and won his approval. Leaning slightly forward in his chair, and turning
his little green stone, he weighed the intention of her phrases approvingly, but stopped her
suddenly to complain of a noise behind him. The window was unhasped. He signed to Rodney, who
crossed the room immediately to put the matter right. He stayed a moment longer by the window
than was, perhaps, necessary, and having done what was needed, drew his chair a little closer
than before to Katharine's side. The music went on. Under cover of some exquisite run of melody,
he leant towards her and whispered something. She glanced at her father and mother, and a moment
later left the room, almost unobserved, with Rodney.

"What is it?" she asked, as soon as the door was shut.

Rodney made no answer, but led her downstairs into the dining-room on the ground floor. Even
when he had shut the door he said nothing, but went straight to the window and parted the curtains.
He beckoned to Katharine.

"There he is again," he said. "Look, there--under the lamp-post."

Katharine looked. She had no idea what Rodney was talking about. A vague feeling of alarm and
mystery possessed her. She saw a man standing on the opposite side of the road facing the house
beneath a lamp-post. As they looked the figure turned, walked a few steps, and came back again
to his old position. It seemed to her that he was looking fixedly at her, and was conscious
of her gaze on him. She knew, in a flash, who the man was who was watching them. She drew the
curtain abruptly.

"Denham," said Rodney. "He was there last night too." He spoke sternly. His whole manner had
become full of authority. Katharine felt almost as if he accused her of some crime. She was
pale and uncomfortably agitated, as much by the strangeness of Rodney's behavior as by the
sight of Ralph Denham.

"If he chooses to come--" she said defiantly.

"You can't let him wait out there. I shall tell him to come in." Rodney spoke with such decision
that when he raised his arm Katharine expected him to draw the curtain instantly. She caught
his hand with a little exclamation.

"Wait!" she cried. "I don't allow you."

"You can't wait," he replied. "You've gone too far." His hand remained upon the curtain. "Why
don't you admit, Katharine," he broke out, looking at her with an expression of contempt as
well as of anger, "that you love him? Are you going to treat him as you treated me?"

She looked at him, wondering, in spite of all her perplexity, at the spirit that possessed him.

"I forbid you to draw the curtain," she said.

He reflected, and then took his hand away.

"I've no right to interfere," he concluded. "I'll leave you. Or, if you like, we'll go back
to the drawing-room."

"No. I can't go back," she said, shaking her head. She bent her head in thought.

"You love him, Katharine," Rodney said suddenly. His tone had lost something of its sternness,
and might have been used to urge a child to confess its fault. She raised her eyes and fixed
them upon him.

"I love him?" she repeated. He nodded. She searched his face, as if for further confirmation
of his words, and, as he remained silent and expectant, turned away once more and continued
her thoughts. He observed her closely, but without stirring, as if he gave her time to make
up her mind to fulfil her obvious duty. The strains of Mozart reached them from the room above.

"Now," she said suddenly, with a sort of desperation, rising from her chair and seeming to
command Rodney to fulfil his part. He drew the curtain instantly, and she made no attempt to
stop him. Their eyes at once sought the same spot beneath the lamp-post.

"He's not there!" she exclaimed.

No one was there. William threw the window up and looked out. The wind rushed into the room,
together with the sound of distant wheels, footsteps hurrying along the pavement, and the cries
of sirens hooting down the river.

"Denham!" William cried.

"Ralph!" said Katharine, but she spoke scarcely louder than she might have spoken to some one
in the same room. With their eyes fixed upon the opposite side of the road, they did not notice
a figure close to the railing which divided the garden from the street. But Denham had crossed
the road and was standing there. They were startled by his voice close at hand.

"Rodney!"

"There you are! Come in, Denham." Rodney went to the front door and opened it. "Here he is,"
he said, bringing Ralph with him into the dining-room where Katharine stood, with her back
to the open window. Their eyes met for a second. Denham looked half dazed by the strong light,
and, buttoned in his overcoat, with his hair ruffled across his forehead by the wind, he seemed
like somebody rescued from an open boat out at sea. William promptly shut the window and drew
the curtains. He acted with a cheerful decision as if he were master of the situation, and
knew exactly what he meant to do.

"You're the first to hear the news, Denham," he said. "Katharine isn't going to marry me, after
all."

"Where shall I put--" Ralph began vaguely, holding out his hat and glancing about him; he balanced
it carefully against a silver bowl that stood upon the sideboard. He then sat himself down
rather heavily at the head of the oval dinner-table. Rodney stood on one side of him and Katharine
on the other. He appeared to be presiding over some meeting from which most of the members
were absent. Meanwhile, he waited, and his eyes rested upon the glow of the beautifully polished
mahogany table.

"William is engaged to Cassandra," said Katharine briefly.

At that Denham looked up quickly at Rodney. Rodney's expression changed. He lost his self-possession.
He smiled a little nervously, and then his attention seemed to be caught by a fragment of melody
from the floor above. He seemed for a moment to forget the presence of the others. He glanced
towards the door.

"I congratulate you," said Denham.

"Yes, yes. We're all mad--quite out of our minds, Denham," he said. "It's partly Katharine's
doing--partly mine." He looked oddly round the room as if he wished to make sure that the scene
in which he played a part had some real existence. "Quite mad," he repeated. "Even Katharine--"
His gaze rested upon her finally, as if she, too, had changed from his old view of her. He
smiled at her as if to encourage her. "Katharine shall explain," he said, and giving a little
nod to Denham, he left the room.

Katharine sat down at once, and leant her chin upon her hands. So long as Rodney was in the
room the proceedings of the evening had seemed to be in his charge, and had been marked by
a certain unreality. Now that she was alone with Ralph she felt at once that a constraint had
been taken from them both. She felt that they were alone at the bottom of the house, which
rose, story upon story, upon the top of them.

"Why were you waiting out there?" she asked.

"For the chance of seeing you," he replied.

"You would have waited all night if it hadn't been for William. It's windy too. You must have
been cold. What could you see? Nothing but our windows."

"It was worth it. I heard you call me."

"I called you?" She had called unconsciously.

"They were engaged this morning," she told him, after a pause.

"You're glad?" he asked.

She bent her head. "Yes, yes," she sighed. "But you don't know how good he is--what he's done
for me--" Ralph made a sound of understanding. "You waited there last night too?" she asked.

"Yes. I can wait," Denham replied. She saw the upright figure standing beneath the lamp-post.

"Waiting in the dark," she said, glancing at the window, as if he saw what she was seeing.
"Ah, but it's different--" She broke off. "I'm not the person you think me. Until you realize
that it's impossible--"

Placing her elbows on the table, she slid her ruby ring up and down her finger abstractedly.
She frowned at the rows of leather-bound books opposite her. Ralph looked keenly at her. Very
pale, but sternly concentrated upon her meaning, beautiful but so little aware of herself as
to seem remote from him also, there was something distant and abstract about her which exalted
him and chilled him at the same time.

"No, you're right," he said. "I don't know you. I've never known you."

"Yet perhaps you know me better than any one else," she mused.

Some detached instinct made her aware that she was gazing at a book which belonged by rights
to some other part of the house. She walked over to the shelf, took it down, and returned to
her seat, placing the book on the table between them. Ralph opened it and looked at the portrait
of a man with a voluminous white shirt-collar, which formed the frontispiece.

"I say I do know you, Katharine," he affirmed, shutting the book. "It's only for moments that
I go mad."

"Do you call two whole nights a moment?"

"I swear to you that now, at this instant, I see you precisely as you are. No one has ever
known you as I know you.... Could you have taken down that book just now if I hadn't known you?"

"That's true," she replied, "but you can't think how I'm divided--how I'm at my ease with you,
and how I'm bewildered. The unreality--the dark--the waiting outside in the wind--yes, when
you look at me, not seeing me, and I don't see you either.... But I do see," she went on quickly,
changing her position and frowning again, "heaps of things, only not you."

"Tell me what you see," he urged.

But she could not reduce her vision to words, since it was no single shape colored upon the
dark, but rather a general excitement, an atmosphere, which, when she tried to visualize it,
took form as a wind scouring the flanks of northern hills and flashing light upon cornfields
and pools.

"Impossible," she sighed, laughing at the ridiculous notion of putting any part of this into words.

"Try, Katharine," Ralph urged her.

"But I can't--I'm talking a sort of nonsense--the sort of nonsense one talks to oneself." She
was dismayed by the expression of longing and despair upon his face. "I was thinking about
a mountain in the North of England," she attempted. "It's too silly--I won't go on."

"We were there together?" he pressed her.

"No. I was alone." She seemed to be disappointing the desire of a child. His face fell.

"You're always alone there?"

"I can't explain." She could not explain that she was essentially alone there. "It's not a
mountain in the North of England. It's an imagination--a story one tells oneself. You have
yours too?"

"You're with me in mine. You're the thing I make up, you see."

"Oh, I see," she sighed. "That's why it's so impossible." She turned upon him almost fiercely.
"You must try to stop it," she said.

"I won't," he replied roughly, "because I--" He stopped. He realized that the moment had come
to impart that news of the utmost importance which he had tried to impart to Mary Datchet,
to Rodney upon the Embankment, to the drunken tramp upon the seat. How should he offer it to
Katharine? He looked quickly at her. He saw that she was only half attentive to him; only a
section of her was exposed to him. The sight roused in him such desperation that he had much
ado to control his impulse to rise and leave the house. Her hand lay loosely curled upon the
table. He seized it and grasped it firmly as if to make sure of her existence and of his own.
"Because I love you, Katharine," he said.

Some roundness or warmth essential to that statement was absent from his voice, and she had
merely to shake her head very slightly for him to drop her hand and turn away in shame at his
own impotence. He thought that she had detected his wish to leave her. She had discerned the
break in his resolution, the blankness in the heart of his vision. It was true that he had
been happier out in the street, thinking of her, than now that he was in the same room with
her. He looked at her with a guilty expression on his face. But her look expressed neither
disappointment nor reproach. Her pose was easy, and she seemed to give effect to a mood of
quiet speculation by the spinning of her ruby ring upon the polished table. Denham forgot his
despair in wondering what thoughts now occupied her.

"You don't believe me?" he said. His tone was humble, and made her smile at him.

"As far as I understand you--but what should you advise me to do with this ring?" she asked,
holding it out.

"I should advise you to let me keep it for you," he replied, in the same tone of half-humorous
gravity.

"After what you've said, I can hardly trust you--unless you'll unsay what you've said?"

"Very well. I'm not in love with you."

"But I think you ARE in love with me.... As I am with you," she added casually enough. "At
least," she said slipping her ring back to its old position, "what other word describes the
state we're in?"

She looked at him gravely and inquiringly, as if in search of help.

"It's when I'm with you that I doubt it, not when I'm alone," he stated.

"So I thought," she replied.

In order to explain to her his state of mind, Ralph recounted his experience with the photograph,
the letter, and the flower picked at Kew. She listened very seriously.

"And then you went raving about the streets," she mused. "Well, it's bad enough. But my state
is worse than yours, because it hasn't anything to do with facts. It's an hallucination, pure
and simple--an intoxication.... One can be in love with pure reason?" she hazarded. "Because
if you're in love with a vision, I believe that that's what I'm in love with."

This conclusion seemed fantastic and profoundly unsatisfactory to Ralph, but after the astonishing
variations of his own sentiments during the past half-hour he could not accuse her of fanciful
exaggeration.

"Rodney seems to know his own mind well enough," he said almost bitterly. The music, which
had ceased, had now begun again, and the melody of Mozart seemed to express the easy and exquisite
love of the two upstairs.

"Cassandra never doubted for a moment. But we--" she glanced at him as if to ascertain his
position, "we see each other only now and then--"

"Like lights in a storm--"

"In the midst of a hurricane," she concluded, as the window shook beneath the pressure of the
wind. They listened to the sound in silence.

Here the door opened with considerable hesitation, and Mrs. Hilbery's head appeared, at first
with an air of caution, but having made sure that she had admitted herself to the dining-room
and not to some more unusual region, she came completely inside and seemed in no way taken
aback by the sight she saw. She seemed, as usual, bound on some quest of her own which was
interrupted pleasantly but strangely by running into one of those queer, unnecessary ceremonies
that other people thought fit to indulge in.

"Please don't let me interrupt you, Mr.--" she was at a loss, as usual, for the name, and Katharine
thought that she did not recognize him. "I hope you've found something nice to read," she added,
pointing to the book upon the table. "Byron--ah, Byron. I've known people who knew Lord Byron,"
she said.

Katharine, who had risen in some confusion, could not help smiling at the thought that her
mother found it perfectly natural and desirable that her daughter should be reading Byron in
the dining-room late at night alone with a strange young man. She blessed a disposition that
was so convenient, and felt tenderly towards her mother and her mother's eccentricities. But
Ralph observed that although Mrs. Hilbery held the book so close to her eyes she was not reading
a word.

"My dear mother, why aren't you in bed?" Katharine exclaimed, changing astonishingly in the
space of a minute to her usual condition of authoritative good sense. "Why are you wandering
about?"

"I'm sure I should like your poetry better than I like Lord Byron's," said Mrs. Hilbery, addressing
Ralph Denham.

"Mr. Denham doesn't write poetry; he has written articles for father, for the Review," Katharine
said, as if prompting her memory.

"Oh dear! How dull!" Mrs. Hilbery exclaimed, with a sudden laugh that rather puzzled her daughter.

Ralph found that she had turned upon him a gaze that was at once very vague and very penetrating.

"But I'm sure you read poetry at night. I always judge by the expression of the eyes," Mrs.
Hilbery continued. ("The windows of the soul," she added parenthetically.) "I don't know much
about the law," she went on, "though many of my relations were lawyers. Some of them looked
very handsome, too, in their wigs. But I think I do know a little about poetry," she added.
"And all the things that aren't written down, but--but--" She waved her hand, as if to indicate
the wealth of unwritten poetry all about them. "The night and the stars, the dawn coming up,
the barges swimming past, the sun setting.... Ah dear," she sighed, "well, the sunset is very
lovely too. I sometimes think that poetry isn't so much what we write as what we feel, Mr. Denham."

During this speech of her mother's Katharine had turned away, and Ralph felt that Mrs. Hilbery
was talking to him apart, with a desire to ascertain something about him which she veiled purposely
by the vagueness of her words. He felt curiously encouraged and heartened by the beam in her
eye rather than by her actual words. From the distance of her age and sex she seemed to be
waving to him, hailing him as a ship sinking beneath the horizon might wave its flag of greeting
to another setting out upon the same voyage. He bent his head, saying nothing, but with a curious
certainty that she had read an answer to her inquiry that satisfied her. At any rate, she rambled
off into a description of the Law Courts which turned to a denunciation of English justice,
which, according to her, imprisoned poor men who couldn't pay their debts. "Tell me, shall
we ever do without it all?" she asked, but at this point Katharine gently insisted that her
mother should go to bed. Looking back from half-way up the staircase, Katharine seemed to see
Denham's eyes watching her steadily and intently with an expression that she had guessed in
them when he stood looking at the windows across the road.

CHAPTER XXXI

The tray which brought Katharine's cup of tea the next morning brought, also, a note from her
mother, announcing that it was her intention to catch an early train to Stratford-on-Avon that
very day.

"Please find out the best way of getting there," the note ran, "and wire to dear Sir John Burdett
to expect me, with my love. I've been dreaming all night of you and Shakespeare, dearest Katharine."

This was no momentary impulse. Mrs. Hilbery had been dreaming of Shakespeare any time these
six months, toying with the idea of an excursion to what she considered the heart of the civilized
world. To stand six feet above Shakespeare's bones, to see the very stones worn by his feet,
to reflect that the oldest man's oldest mother had very likely seen Shakespeare's daughter--such
thoughts roused an emotion in her, which she expressed at unsuitable moments, and with a passion
that would not have been unseemly in a pilgrim to a sacred shrine. The only strange thing was
that she wished to go by herself. But, naturally enough, she was well provided with friends
who lived in the neighborhood of Shakespeare's tomb, and were delighted to welcome her; and
she left later to catch her train in the best of spirits. There was a man selling violets in
the street. It was a fine day. She would remember to send Mr. Hilbery the first daffodil she
saw. And, as she ran back into the hall to tell Katharine, she felt, she had always felt, that
Shakespeare's command to leave his bones undisturbed applied only to odious curiosity-mongers--not
to dear Sir John and herself. Leaving her daughter to cogitate the theory of Anne Hathaway's
sonnets, and the buried manuscripts here referred to, with the implied menace to the safety
of the heart of civilization itself, she briskly shut the door of her taxi-cab, and was whirled
off upon the first stage of her pilgrimage.

The house was oddly different without her. Katharine found the maids already in possession
of her room, which they meant to clean thoroughly during her absence. To Katharine it seemed
as if they had brushed away sixty years or so with the first flick of their damp dusters. It
seemed to her that the work she had tried to do in that room was being swept into a very insignificant
heap of dust. The china shepherdesses were already shining from a bath of hot water. The writing-table
might have belonged to a professional man of methodical habits.

Gathering together a few papers upon which she was at work, Katharine proceeded to her own
room with the intention of looking through them, perhaps, in the course of the morning. But
she was met on the stairs by Cassandra, who followed her up, but with such intervals between
each step that Katharine began to feel her purpose dwindling before they had reached the door.
Cassandra leant over the banisters, and looked down upon the Persian rug that lay on the floor
of the hall.

"Doesn't everything look odd this morning?" she inquired. "Are you really going to spend the
morning with those dull old letters, because if so--"

The dull old letters, which would have turned the heads of the most sober of collectors, were
laid upon a table, and, after a moment's pause, Cassandra, looking grave all of a sudden, asked
Katharine where she should find the "History of England" by Lord Macaulay. It was downstairs
in Mr. Hilbery's study. The cousins descended together in search of it. They diverged into
the drawing-room for the good reason that the door was open. The portrait of Richard Alardyce
attracted their attention.

"I wonder what he was like?" It was a question that Katharine had often asked herself lately.

"Oh, a fraud like the rest of them--at least Henry says so," Cassandra replied. "Though I don't
believe everything Henry says," she added a little defensively.

Down they went into Mr. Hilbery's study, where they began to look among his books. So desultory
was this examination that some fifteen minutes failed to discover the work they were in search of.

"Must you read Macaulay's History, Cassandra?" Katharine asked, with a stretch of her arms.

"I must," Cassandra replied briefly.

"Well, I'm going to leave you to look for it by yourself."

"Oh, no, Katharine. Please stay and help me. You see--you see--I told William I'd read a little
every day. And I want to tell him that I've begun when he comes."

"When does William come?" Katharine asked, turning to the shelves again.

"To tea, if that suits you?"

"If it suits me to be out, I suppose you mean."

"Oh, you're horrid.... Why shouldn't you--?"

"Yes?"

"Why shouldn't you be happy too?"

"I am quite happy," Katharine replied.

"I mean as I am. Katharine," she said impulsively, "do let's be married on the same day."

"To the same man?"

"Oh, no, no. But why shouldn't you marry--some one else?"

"Here's your Macaulay," said Katharine, turning round with the book in her hand. "I should
say you'd better begin to read at once if you mean to be educated by tea-time."

"Damn Lord Macaulay!" cried Cassandra, slapping the book upon the table. "Would you rather
not talk?"

"We've talked enough already," Katharine replied evasively.

"I know I shan't be able to settle to Macaulay," said Cassandra, looking ruefully at the dull
red cover of the prescribed volume, which, however, possessed a talismanic property, since
William admired it. He had advised a little serious reading for the morning hours.

"Have YOU read Macaulay?" she asked.

"No. William never tried to educate me." As she spoke she saw the light fade from Cassandra's
face, as if she had implied some other, more mysterious, relationship. She was stung with compunction.
She marveled at her own rashness in having influenced the life of another, as she had influenced
Cassandra's life.

"We weren't serious," she said quickly.

"But I'm fearfully serious," said Cassandra, with a little shudder, and her look showed that
she spoke the truth. She turned and glanced at Katharine as she had never glanced at her before.
There was fear in her glance, which darted on her and then dropped guiltily. Oh, Katharine
had everything--beauty, mind, character. She could never compete with Katharine; she could
never be safe so long as Katharine brooded over her, dominating her, disposing of her. She
called her cold, unseeing, unscrupulous, but the only sign she gave outwardly was a curious
one--she reached out her hand and grasped the volume of history. At that moment the bell of
the telephone rang and Katharine went to answer it. Cassandra, released from observation, dropped
her book and clenched her hands. She suffered more fiery torture in those few minutes than
she had suffered in the whole of her life; she learnt more of her capacities for feeling. But
when Katharine reappeared she was calm, and had gained a look of dignity that was new to her.

"Was that him?" she asked.

"It was Ralph Denham," Katharine replied.

"I meant Ralph Denham."

"Why did you mean Ralph Denham? What has William told you about Ralph Denham?" The accusation
that Katharine was calm, callous, and indifferent was not possible in face of her present air
of animation. She gave Cassandra no time to frame an answer. "Now, when are you and William
going to be married?" she asked.

Cassandra made no reply for some moments. It was, indeed, a very difficult question to answer.
In conversation the night before, William had indicated to Cassandra that, in his belief, Katharine
was becoming engaged to Ralph Denham in the dining-room. Cassandra, in the rosy light of her
own circumstances, had been disposed to think that the matter must be settled already. But
a letter which she had received that morning from William, while ardent in its expression of
affection, had conveyed to her obliquely that he would prefer the announcement of their engagement
to coincide with that of Katharine's. This document Cassandra now produced, and read aloud,
with considerable excisions and much hesitation.

"... a thousand pities--ahem--I fear we shall cause a great deal of natural annoyance. If,
on the other hand, what I have reason to think will happen, should happen--within reasonable
time, and the present position is not in any way offensive to you, delay would, in my opinion,
serve all our interests better than a premature explanation, which is bound to cause more surprise
than is desirable--"

"Very like William," Katharine exclaimed, having gathered the drift of these remarks with a
speed that, by itself, disconcerted Cassandra.

"I quite understand his feelings," Cassandra replied. "I quite agree with them. I think it
would be much better, if you intend to marry Mr. Denham, that we should wait as William says."

"But, then, if I don't marry him for months--or, perhaps, not at all?"

Cassandra was silent. The prospect appalled her. Katharine had been telephoning to Ralph Denham;
she looked queer, too; she must be, or about to become, engaged to him. But if Cassandra could
have overheard the conversation upon the telephone, she would not have felt so certain that
it tended in that direction. It was to this effect:

"I'm Ralph Denham speaking. I'm in my right senses now."

"How long did you wait outside the house?"

"I went home and wrote you a letter. I tore it up."

"I shall tear up everything too."

"I shall come."

"Yes. Come to-day."

"I must explain to you--"

"Yes. We must explain--"

A long pause followed. Ralph began a sentence, which he canceled with the word, "Nothing."
Suddenly, together, at the same moment, they said good-bye. And yet, if the telephone had been
miraculously connected with some higher atmosphere pungent with the scent of thyme and the
savor of salt, Katharine could hardly have breathed in a keener sense of exhilaration. She
ran downstairs on the crest of it. She was amazed to find herself already committed by William
and Cassandra to marry the owner of the halting voice she had just heard on the telephone.
The tendency of her spirit seemed to be in an altogether different direction; and of a different
nature. She had only to look at Cassandra to see what the love that results in an engagement
and marriage means. She considered for a moment, and then said: "If you don't want to tell
people yourselves, I'll do it for you. I know William has feelings about these matters that
make it very difficult for him to do anything."

"Because he's fearfully sensitive about other people's feelings," said Cassandra. "The idea
that he could upset Aunt Maggie or Uncle Trevor would make him ill for weeks."

This interpretation of what she was used to call William's conventionality was new to Katharine.
And yet she felt it now to be the true one.

"Yes, you're right," she said.

"And then he worships beauty. He wants life to be beautiful in every part of it. Have you ever
noticed how exquisitely he finishes everything? Look at the address on that envelope. Every
letter is perfect."

Whether this applied also to the sentiments expressed in the letter, Katharine was not so sure;
but when William's solicitude was spent upon Cassandra it not only failed to irritate her,
as it had done when she was the object of it, but appeared, as Cassandra said, the fruit of
his love of beauty.

"Yes," she said, "he loves beauty."

"I hope we shall have a great many children," said Cassandra. "He loves children."

This remark made Katharine realize the depths of their intimacy better than any other words
could have done; she was jealous for one moment; but the next she was humiliated. She had known
William for years, and she had never once guessed that he loved children. She looked at the
queer glow of exaltation in Cassandra's eyes, through which she was beholding the true spirit
of a human being, and wished that she would go on talking about William for ever. Cassandra
was not unwilling to gratify her. She talked on. The morning slipped away. Katharine scarcely
changed her position on the edge of her father's writing-table, and Cassandra never opened
the "History of England."

And yet it must be confessed that there were vast lapses in the attention which Katharine bestowed
upon her cousin. The atmosphere was wonderfully congenial for thoughts of her own. She lost
herself sometimes in such deep reverie that Cassandra, pausing, could look at her for moments
unperceived. What could Katharine be thinking about, unless it were Ralph Denham? She was satisfied,
by certain random replies, that Katharine had wandered a little from the subject of William's
perfections. But Katharine made no sign. She always ended these pauses by saying something
so natural that Cassandra was deluded into giving fresh examples of her absorbing theme. Then
they lunched, and the only sign that Katharine gave of abstraction was to forget to help the
pudding. She looked so like her mother, as she sat there oblivious of the tapioca, that Cassandra
was startled into exclaiming:

"How like Aunt Maggie you look!"

"Nonsense," said Katharine, with more irritation than the remark seemed to call for.

In truth, now that her mother was away, Katharine did feel less sensible than usual, but as
she argued it to herself, there was much less need for sense. Secretly, she was a little shaken
by the evidence which the morning had supplied of her immense capacity for--what could one
call it?--rambling over an infinite variety of thoughts that were too foolish to be named.
She was, for example, walking down a road in Northumberland in the August sunset; at the inn
she left her companion, who was Ralph Denham, and was transported, not so much by her own feet
as by some invisible means, to the top of a high hill. Here the scents, the sounds among the
dry heather-roots, the grass-blades pressed upon the palm of her hand, were all so perceptible
that she could experience each one separately. After this her mind made excursions into the
dark of the air, or settled upon the surface of the sea, which could be discovered over there,
or with equal unreason it returned to its couch of bracken beneath the stars of midnight, and
visited the snow valleys of the moon. These fancies would have been in no way strange, since
the walls of every mind are decorated with some such tracery, but she found herself suddenly
pursuing such thoughts with an extreme ardor, which became a desire to change her actual condition
for something matching the conditions of her dream. Then she started; then she awoke to the
fact that Cassandra was looking at her in amazement.

Cassandra would have liked to feel certain that, when Katharine made no reply at all or one
wide of the mark, she was making up her mind to get married at once, but it was difficult,
if this were so, to account for some remarks that Katharine let fall about the future. She
recurred several times to the summer, as if she meant to spend that season in solitary wandering.
She seemed to have a plan in her mind which required Bradshaws and the names of inns.

Cassandra was driven finally, by her own unrest, to put on her clothes and wander out along
the streets of Chelsea, on the pretence that she must buy something. But, in her ignorance
of the way, she became panic-stricken at the thought of being late, and no sooner had she found
the shop she wanted, than she fled back again in order to be at home when William came. He
came, indeed, five minutes after she had sat down by the tea-table, and she had the happiness
of receiving him alone. His greeting put her doubts of his affection at rest, but the first
question he asked was:

"Has Katharine spoken to you?"

"Yes. But she says she's not engaged. She doesn't seem to think she's ever going to be engaged."

William frowned, and looked annoyed.

"They telephoned this morning, and she behaves very oddly. She forgets to help the pudding,"
Cassandra added by way of cheering him.

"My dear child, after what I saw and heard last night, it's not a question of guessing or suspecting.
Either she's engaged to him--or--"

He left his sentence unfinished, for at this point Katharine herself appeared. With his recollections
of the scene the night before, he was too self-conscious even to look at her, and it was not
until she told him of her mother's visit to Stratford-on-Avon that he raised his eyes. It was
clear that he was greatly relieved. He looked round him now, as if he felt at his ease, and
Cassandra exclaimed:

"Don't you think everything looks quite different?"

"You've moved the sofa?" he asked.

"No. Nothing's been touched," said Katharine. "Everything's exactly the same." But as she said
this, with a decision which seemed to make it imply that more than the sofa was unchanged,
she held out a cup into which she had forgotten to pour any tea. Being told of her forgetfulness,
she frowned with annoyance, and said that Cassandra was demoralizing her. The glance she cast
upon them, and the resolute way in which she plunged them into speech, made William and Cassandra
feel like children who had been caught prying. They followed her obediently, making conversation.
Any one coming in might have judged them acquaintances met, perhaps, for the third time. If
that were so, one must have concluded that the hostess suddenly bethought her of an engagement
pressing for fulfilment. First Katharine looked at her watch, and then she asked William to
tell her the right time. When told that it was ten minutes to five she rose at once, and said:

"Then I'm afraid I must go."

She left the room, holding her unfinished bread and butter in her hand. William glanced at
Cassandra.

"Well, she IS queer!" Cassandra exclaimed.

William looked perturbed. He knew more of Katharine than Cassandra did, but even he could not
tell--. In a second Katharine was back again dressed in outdoor things, still holding her bread
and butter in her bare hand.

"If I'm late, don't wait for me," she said. "I shall have dined," and so saying, she left them.

"But she can't--" William exclaimed, as the door shut, "not without any gloves and bread and
butter in her hand!" They ran to the window, and saw her walking rapidly along the street towards
the City. Then she vanished.

"She must have gone to meet Mr. Denham," Cassandra exclaimed.

"Goodness knows!" William interjected.

The incident impressed them both as having something queer and ominous about it out of all
proportion to its surface strangeness.

"It's the sort of way Aunt Maggie behaves," said Cassandra, as if in explanation.

William shook his head, and paced up and down the room looking extremely perturbed.

"This is what I've been foretelling," he burst out. "Once set the ordinary conventions aside--Thank
Heaven Mrs. Hilbery is away. But there's Mr. Hilbery. How are we to explain it to him? I shall
have to leave you."

"But Uncle Trevor won't be back for hours, William!" Cassandra implored.

"You never can tell. He may be on his way already. Or suppose Mrs. Milvain--your Aunt Celia--or
Mrs. Cosham, or any other of your aunts or uncles should be shown in and find us alone together.
You know what they're saying about us already."

Cassandra was equally stricken by the sight of William's agitation, and appalled by the prospect
of his desertion.

"We might hide," she exclaimed wildly, glancing at the curtain which separated the room with
the relics.

"I refuse entirely to get under the table," said William sarcastically.

She saw that he was losing his temper with the difficulties of the situation. Her instinct
told her that an appeal to his affection, at this moment, would be extremely ill-judged. She
controlled herself, sat down, poured out a fresh cup of tea, and sipped it quietly. This natural
action, arguing complete self-mastery, and showing her in one of those feminine attitudes which
William found adorable, did more than any argument to compose his agitation. It appealed to
his chivalry. He accepted a cup. Next she asked for a slice of cake. By the time the cake was
eaten and the tea drunk the personal question had lapsed, and they were discussing poetry.
Insensibly they turned from the question of dramatic poetry in general, to the particular example
which reposed in William's pocket, and when the maid came in to clear away the tea-things,
William had asked permission to read a short passage aloud, "unless it bored her?"

Cassandra bent her head in silence, but she showed a little of what she felt in her eyes, and
thus fortified, William felt confident that it would take more than Mrs. Milvain herself to
rout him from his position. He read aloud.

Meanwhile Katharine walked rapidly along the street. If called upon to explain her impulsive
action in leaving the tea-table, she could have traced it to no better cause than that William
had glanced at Cassandra; Cassandra at William. Yet, because they had glanced, her position
was impossible. If one forgot to pour out a cup of tea they rushed to the conclusion that she
was engaged to Ralph Denham. She knew that in half an hour or so the door would open, and Ralph
Denham would appear. She could not sit there and contemplate seeing him with William's and
Cassandra's eyes upon them, judging their exact degree of intimacy, so that they might fix
the wedding-day. She promptly decided that she would meet Ralph out of doors; she still had
time to reach Lincoln's Inn Fields before he left his office. She hailed a cab, and bade it
take her to a shop for selling maps which she remembered in Great Queen Street, since she hardly
liked to be set down at his door. Arrived at the shop, she bought a large scale map of Norfolk,
and thus provided, hurried into Lincoln's Inn Fields, and assured herself of the position of
Messrs. Hoper and Grateley's office. The great gas chandeliers were alight in the office windows.
She conceived that he sat at an enormous table laden with papers beneath one of them in the
front room with the three tall windows. Having settled his position there, she began walking
to and fro upon the pavement. Nobody of his build appeared. She scrutinized each male figure
as it approached and passed her. Each male figure had, nevertheless, a look of him, due, perhaps,
to the professional dress, the quick step, the keen glance which they cast upon her as they
hastened home after the day's work. The square itself, with its immense houses all so fully
occupied and stern of aspect, its atmosphere of industry and power, as if even the sparrows
and the children were earning their daily bread, as if the sky itself, with its gray and scarlet
clouds, reflected the serious intention of the city beneath it, spoke of him. Here was the
fit place for their meeting, she thought; here was the fit place for her to walk thinking of
him. She could not help comparing it with the domestic streets of Chelsea. With this comparison
in her mind, she extended her range a little, and turned into the main road. The great torrent
of vans and carts was sweeping down Kingsway; pedestrians were streaming in two currents along
the pavements. She stood fascinated at the corner. The deep roar filled her ears; the changing
tumult had the inexpressible fascination of varied life pouring ceaselessly with a purpose
which, as she looked, seemed to her, somehow, the normal purpose for which life was framed;
its complete indifference to the individuals, whom it swallowed up and rolled onwards, filled
her with at least a temporary exaltation. The blend of daylight and of lamplight made her an
invisible spectator, just as it gave the people who passed her a semi-transparent quality,
and left the faces pale ivory ovals in which the eyes alone were dark. They tended the enormous
rush of the current--the great flow, the deep stream, the unquenchable tide. She stood unobserved
and absorbed, glorying openly in the rapture that had run subterraneously all day. Suddenly
she was clutched, unwilling, from the outside, by the recollection of her purpose in coming
there. She had come to find Ralph Denham. She hastily turned back into Lincoln's Inn Fields,
and looked for her landmark--the light in the three tall windows. She sought in vain. The faces
of the houses had now merged in the general darkness, and she had difficulty in determining
which she sought. Ralph's three windows gave back on their ghostly glass panels only a reflection
of the gray and greenish sky. She rang the bell, peremptorily, under the painted name of the
firm. After some delay she was answered by a caretaker, whose pail and brush of themselves
told her that the working day was over and the workers gone. Nobody, save perhaps Mr. Grateley
himself, was left, she assured Katharine; every one else had been gone these ten minutes.

The news woke Katharine completely. Anxiety gained upon her. She hastened back into Kingsway,
looking at people who had miraculously regained their solidity. She ran as far as the Tube
station, overhauling clerk after clerk, solicitor after solicitor. Not one of them even faintly
resembled Ralph Denham. More and more plainly did she see him; and more and more did he seem
to her unlike any one else. At the door of the station she paused, and tried to collect her
thoughts. He had gone to her house. By taking a cab she could be there probably in advance
of him. But she pictured herself opening the drawing-room door, and William and Cassandra looking
up, and Ralph's entrance a moment later, and the glances--the insinuations. No; she could not
face it. She would write him a letter and take it at once to his house. She bought paper and
pencil at the bookstall, and entered an A.B.C. shop, where, by ordering a cup of coffee, she
secured an empty table, and began at vice to write:

"I came to meet you and I have missed you. I could not face William and Cassandra. They want
us--" here she paused. "They insist that we are engaged," she substituted, "and we couldn't
talk at all, or explain anything. I want--" Her wants were so vast, now that she was in communication
with Ralph, that the pencil was utterly inadequate to conduct them on to the paper; it seemed
as if the whole torrent of Kingsway had to run down her pencil. She gazed intently at a notice
hanging on the gold-encrusted wall opposite, "... to say all kinds of things," she added, writing
each word with the painstaking of a child. But, when she raised her eyes again to meditate
the next sentence, she was aware of a waitress, whose expression intimated that it was closing
time, and, looking round, Katharine saw herself almost the last person left in the shop. She
took up her letter, paid her bill, and found herself once more in the street. She would now
take a cab to Highgate. But at that moment it flashed upon her that she could not remember
the address. This check seemed to let fall a barrier across a very powerful current of desire.
She ransacked her memory in desperation, hunting for the name, first by remembering the look
of the house, and then by trying, in memory, to retrace the words she had written once, at
least, upon an envelope. The more she pressed the farther the words receded. Was the house
an Orchard Something, on the street a Hill? She gave it up. Never, since she was a child, had
she felt anything like this blankness and desolation. There rushed in upon her, as if she were
waking from some dream, all the consequences of her inexplicable indolence. She figured Ralph's
face as he turned from her door without a word of explanation, receiving his dismissal as a
blow from herself, a callous intimation that she did not wish to see him. She followed his
departure from her door; but it was far more easy to see him marching far and fast in any direction
for any length of time than to conceive that he would turn back to Highgate. Perhaps he would
try once more to see her in Cheyne Walk? It was proof of the clearness with which she saw him,
that she started forward as this possibility occurred to her, and almost raised her hand to
beckon to a cab. No; he was too proud to come again; he rejected the desire and walked on and
on, on and on--If only she could read the names of those visionary streets down which he passed!
But her imagination betrayed her at this point, or mocked her with a sense of their strangeness,
darkness, and distance. Indeed, instead of helping herself to any decision, she only filled
her mind with the vast extent of London and the impossibility of finding any single figure
that wandered off this way and that way, turned to the right and to the left, chose that dingy
little back street where the children were playing in the road, and so--She roused herself
impatiently. She walked rapidly along Holborn. Soon she turned and walked as rapidly in the
other direction. This indecision was not merely odious, but had something that alarmed her
about it, as she had been alarmed slightly once or twice already that day; she felt unable
to cope with the strength of her own desires. To a person controlled by habit, there was humiliation
as well as alarm in this sudden release of what appeared to be a very powerful as well as an
unreasonable force. An aching in the muscles of her right hand now showed her that she was
crushing her gloves and the map of Norfolk in a grip sufficient to crack a more solid object.
She relaxed her grasp; she looked anxiously at the faces of the passers-by to see whether their
eyes rested on her for a moment longer than was natural, or with any curiosity. But having
smoothed out her gloves, and done what she could to look as usual, she forgot spectators, and
was once more given up to her desperate desire to find Ralph Denham. It was a desire now--wild,
irrational, unexplained, resembling something felt in childhood. Once more she blamed herself
bitterly for her carelessness. But finding herself opposite the Tube station, she pulled herself
up and took counsel swiftly, as of old. It flashed upon her that she would go at once to Mary
Datchet, and ask her to give her Ralph's address. The decision was a relief, not only in giving
her a goal, but in providing her with a rational excuse for her own actions. It gave her a
goal certainly, but the fact of having a goal led her to dwell exclusively upon her obsession;
so that when she rang the bell of Mary's flat, she did not for a moment consider how this demand
would strike Mary. To her extreme annoyance Mary was not at home; a charwoman opened the door.
All Katharine could do was to accept the invitation to wait. She waited for, perhaps, fifteen
minutes, and spent them in pacing from one end of the room to the other without intermission.
When she heard Mary's key in the door she paused in front of the fireplace, and Mary found
her standing upright, looking at once expectant and determined, like a person who has come
on an errand of such importance that it must be broached without preface.

Mary exclaimed in surprise.

"Yes, yes," Katharine said, brushing these remarks aside, as if they were in the way.

"Have you had tea?"

"Oh yes," she said, thinking that she had had tea hundreds of years ago, somewhere or other.

Mary paused, took off her gloves, and, finding matches, proceeded to light the fire.

Katharine checked her with an impatient movement, and said:

"Don't light the fire for me.... I want to know Ralph Denham's address."

She was holding a pencil and preparing to write on the envelope. She waited with an imperious
expression.

"The Apple Orchard, Mount Ararat Road, Highgate," Mary said, speaking slowly and rather strangely.

"Oh, I remember now!" Katharine exclaimed, with irritation at her own stupidity. "I suppose
it wouldn't take twenty minutes to drive there?" She gathered up her purse and gloves and seemed
about to go.

"But you won't find him," said Mary, pausing with a match in her hand. Katharine, who had already
turned towards the door, stopped and looked at her.

"Why? Where is he?" she asked.

"He won't have left his office."

"But he has left the office," she replied. "The only question is will he have reached home
yet? He went to see me at Chelsea; I tried to meet him and missed him. He will have found no
message to explain. So I must find him--as soon as possible."

Mary took in the situation at her leisure.

"But why not telephone?" she said.

Katharine immediately dropped all that she was holding; her strained expression relaxed, and
exclaiming, "Of course! Why didn't I think of that!" she seized the telephone receiver and
gave her number. Mary looked at her steadily, and then left the room. At length Katharine heard,
through all the superimposed weight of London, the mysterious sound of feet in her own house
mounting to the little room, where she could almost see the pictures and the books; she listened
with extreme intentness to the preparatory vibrations, and then established her identity.

"Has Mr. Denham called?"

"Yes, miss."

"Did he ask for me?"

"Yes. We said you were out, miss."

"Did he leave any message?"

"No. He went away. About twenty minutes ago, miss."

Katharine hung up the receiver. She walked the length of the room in such acute disappointment
that she did not at first perceive Mary's absence. Then she called in a harsh and peremptory tone:

"Mary."

Mary was taking off her outdoor things in the bedroom. She heard Katharine call her. "Yes,"
she said, "I shan't be a moment." But the moment prolonged itself, as if for some reason Mary
found satisfaction in making herself not only tidy, but seemly and ornamented. A stage in her
life had been accomplished in the last months which left its traces for ever upon her bearing.
Youth, and the bloom of youth, had receded, leaving the purpose of her face to show itself
in the hollower cheeks, the firmer lips, the eyes no longer spontaneously observing at random,
but narrowed upon an end which was not near at hand. This woman was now a serviceable human
being, mistress of her own destiny, and thus, by some combination of ideas, fit to be adorned
with the dignity of silver chains and glowing brooches. She came in at her leisure and asked:
"Well, did you get an answer?"

"He has left Chelsea already," Katharine replied.

"Still, he won't be home yet," said Mary.

Katharine was once more irresistibly drawn to gaze upon an imaginary map of London, to follow
the twists and turns of unnamed streets.

"I'll ring up his home and ask whether he's back." Mary crossed to the telephone and, after
a series of brief remarks, announced:

"No. His sister says he hasn't come back yet."

"Ah!" She applied her ear to the telephone once more. "They've had a message. He won't be back
to dinner."

"Then what is he going to do?"

Very pale, and with her large eyes fixed not so much upon Mary as upon vistas of unresponding
blankness, Katharine addressed herself also not so much to Mary as to the unrelenting spirit
which now appeared to mock her from every quarter of her survey.

After waiting a little time Mary remarked indifferently:

"I really don't know." Slackly lying back in her armchair, she watched the little flames beginning
to creep among the coals indifferently, as if they, too, were very distant and indifferent.

Katharine looked at her indignantly and rose.

"Possibly he may come here," Mary continued, without altering the abstract tone of her voice.
"It would be worth your while to wait if you want to see him to-night." She bent forward and
touched the wood, so that the flames slipped in between the interstices of the coal.

Katharine reflected. "I'll wait half an hour," she said.

Mary rose, went to the table, spread out her papers under the green-shaded lamp and, with an
action that was becoming a habit, twisted a lock of hair round and round in her fingers. Once
she looked unperceived at her visitor, who never moved, who sat so still, with eyes so intent,
that you could almost fancy that she was watching something, some face that never looked up
at her. Mary found herself unable to go on writing. She turned her eyes away, but only to be
aware of the presence of what Katharine looked at. There were ghosts in the room, and one,
strangely and sadly, was the ghost of herself. The minutes went by.

"What would be the time now?" said Katharine at last. The half-hour was not quite spent.

"I'm going to get dinner ready," said Mary, rising from her table.

"Then I'll go," said Katharine.

"Why don't you stay? Where are you going?"

Katharine looked round the room, conveying her uncertainty in her glance.

"Perhaps I might find him," she mused.

"But why should it matter? You'll see him another day."

Mary spoke, and intended to speak, cruelly enough.

"I was wrong to come here," Katharine replied.

Their eyes met with antagonism, and neither flinched.

"You had a perfect right to come here," Mary answered.

A loud knocking at the door interrupted them. Mary went to open it, and returning with some
note or parcel, Katharine looked away so that Mary might not read her disappointment.

"Of course you had a right to come," Mary repeated, laying the note upon the table.

"No," said Katharine. "Except that when one's desperate one has a sort of right. I am desperate.
How do I know what's happening to him now? He may do anything. He may wander about the streets
all night. Anything may happen to him."

She spoke with a self-abandonment that Mary had never seen in her.

"You know you exaggerate; you're talking nonsense," she said roughly.

"Mary, I must talk--I must tell you--"

"You needn't tell me anything," Mary interrupted her. "Can't I see for myself?"

"No, no," Katharine exclaimed. "It's not that--"

Her look, passing beyond Mary, beyond the verge of the room and out beyond any words that came
her way, wildly and passionately, convinced Mary that she, at any rate, could not follow such
a glance to its end. She was baffled; she tried to think herself back again into the height
of her love for Ralph. Pressing her fingers upon her eyelids, she murmured:

"You forget that I loved him too. I thought I knew him. I DID know him."

And yet, what had she known? She could not remember it any more. She pressed her eyeballs until
they struck stars and suns into her darkness. She convinced herself that she was stirring among
ashes. She desisted. She was astonished at her discovery. She did not love Ralph any more.
She looked back dazed into the room, and her eyes rested upon the table with its lamp-lit papers.
The steady radiance seemed for a second to have its counterpart within her; she shut her eyes;
she opened them and looked at the lamp again; another love burnt in the place of the old one,
or so, in a momentary glance of amazement, she guessed before the revelation was over and the
old surroundings asserted themselves. She leant in silence against the mantelpiece.

"There are different ways of loving," she murmured, half to herself, at length.

Katharine made no reply and seemed unaware of her words. She seemed absorbed in her own thoughts.

"Perhaps he's waiting in the street again to-night," she exclaimed. "I'll go now. I might find
him."

"It's far more likely that he'll come here," said Mary, and Katharine, after considering for
a moment, said:

"I'll wait another half-hour."

She sank down into her chair again, and took up the same position which Mary had compared to
the position of one watching an unseeing face. She watched, indeed, not a face, but a procession,
not of people, but of life itself: the good and bad; the meaning; the past, the present, and
the future. All this seemed apparent to her, and she was not ashamed of her extravagance so
much as exalted to one of the pinnacles of existence, where it behoved the world to do her
homage. No one but she herself knew what it meant to miss Ralph Denham on that particular night;
into this inadequate event crowded feelings that the great crises of life might have failed
to call forth. She had missed him, and knew the bitterness of all failure; she desired him,
and knew the torment of all passion. It did not matter what trivial accidents led to this culmination.
Nor did she care how extravagant she appeared, nor how openly she showed her feelings.

When the dinner was ready Mary told her to come, and she came submissively, as if she let Mary
direct her movements for her. They ate and drank together almost in silence, and when Mary
told her to eat more, she ate more; when she was told to drink wine, she drank it. Nevertheless,
beneath this superficial obedience, Mary knew that she was following her own thoughts unhindered.
She was not inattentive so much as remote; she looked at once so unseeing and so intent upon
some vision of her own that Mary gradually felt more than protective--she became actually alarmed
at the prospect of some collision between Katharine and the forces of the outside world. Directly
they had done, Katharine announced her intention of going.

"But where are you going to?" Mary asked, desiring vaguely to hinder her.

"Oh, I'm going home--no, to Highgate perhaps."

Mary saw that it would be useless to try to stop her. All she could do was to insist upon coming
too, but she met with no opposition; Katharine seemed indifferent to her presence. In a few
minutes they were walking along the Strand. They walked so rapidly that Mary was deluded into
the belief that Katharine knew where she was going. She herself was not attentive. She was
glad of the movement along lamp-lit streets in the open air. She was fingering, painfully and
with fear, yet with strange hope, too, the discovery which she had stumbled upon unexpectedly
that night. She was free once more at the cost of a gift, the best, perhaps, that she could
offer, but she was, thank Heaven, in love no longer. She was tempted to spend the first instalment
of her freedom in some dissipation; in the pit of the Coliseum, for example, since they were
now passing the door. Why not go in and celebrate her independence of the tyranny of love?
Or, perhaps, the top of an omnibus bound for some remote place such as Camberwell, or Sidcup,
or the Welsh Harp would suit her better. She noticed these names painted on little boards for
the first time for weeks. Or should she return to her room, and spend the night working out
the details of a very enlightened and ingenious scheme? Of all possibilities this appealed
to her most, and brought to mind the fire, the lamplight, the steady glow which had seemed
lit in the place where a more passionate flame had once burnt.

Now Katharine stopped, and Mary woke to the fact that instead of having a goal she had evidently
none. She paused at the edge of the crossing, and looked this way and that, and finally made
as if in the direction of Haverstock Hill.

"Look here--where are you going?" Mary cried, catching her by the hand. "We must take that
cab and go home." She hailed a cab and insisted that Katharine should get in, while she directed
the driver to take them to Cheyne Walk.

Katharine submitted. "Very well," she said. "We may as well go there as anywhere else."

A gloom seemed to have fallen on her. She lay back in her corner, silent and apparently exhausted.
Mary, in spite of her own preoccupation, was struck by her pallor and her attitude of dejection.

"I'm sure we shall find him," she said more gently than she had yet spoken.

"It may be too late," Katharine replied. Without understanding her, Mary began to pity her
for what she was suffering.

"Nonsense," she said, taking her hand and rubbing it. "If we don't find him there we shall
find him somewhere else."

"But suppose he's walking about the streets--for hours and hours?"

She leant forward and looked out of the window.

"He may refuse ever to speak to me again," she said in a low voice, almost to herself.

The exaggeration was so immense that Mary did not attempt to cope with it, save by keeping
hold of Katharine's wrist. She half expected that Katharine might open the door suddenly and
jump out. Perhaps Katharine perceived the purpose with which her hand was held.

"Don't be frightened," she said, with a little laugh. "I'm not going to jump out of the cab.
It wouldn't do much good after all."

Upon this, Mary ostentatiously withdrew her hand.

"I ought to have apologized," Katharine continued, with an effort, "for bringing you into all
this business; I haven't told you half, either. I'm no longer engaged to William Rodney. He
is to marry Cassandra Otway. It's all arranged--all perfectly right.... And after he'd waited
in the streets for hours and hours, William made me bring him in. He was standing under the
lamp-post watching our windows. He was perfectly white when he came into the room. William
left us alone, and we sat and talked. It seems ages and ages ago, now. Was it last night? Have
I been out long? What's the time?" She sprang forward to catch sight of a clock, as if the
exact time had some important bearing on her case.

"Only half-past eight!" she exclaimed. "Then he may be there still." She leant out of the window
and told the cabman to drive faster.

"But if he's not there, what shall I do? Where could I find him? The streets are so crowded."

"We shall find him," Mary repeated.

Mary had no doubt but that somehow or other they would find him. But suppose they did find
him? She began to think of Ralph with a sort of strangeness, in her effort to understand how
he could be capable of satisfying this extraordinary desire. Once more she thought herself
back to her old view of him and could, with an effort, recall the haze which surrounded his
figure, and the sense of confused, heightened exhilaration which lay all about his neighborhood,
so that for months at a time she had never exactly heard his voice or seen his face--or so
it now seemed to her. The pain of her loss shot through her. Nothing would ever make up--not
success, or happiness, or oblivion. But this pang was immediately followed by the assurance
that now, at any rate, she knew the truth; and Katharine, she thought, stealing a look at her,
did not know the truth; yes, Katharine was immensely to be pitied.

The cab, which had been caught in the traffic, was now liberated and sped on down Sloane Street.
Mary was conscious of the tension with which Katharine marked its progress, as if her mind
were fixed upon a point in front of them, and marked, second by second, their approach to it.
She said nothing, and in silence Mary began to fix her mind, in sympathy at first, and later
in forgetfulness of her companion, upon a point in front of them. She imagined a point distant
as a low star upon the horizon of the dark. There for her too, for them both, was the goal
for which they were striving, and the end for the ardors of their spirits was the same: but
where it was, or what it was, or why she felt convinced that they were united in search of
it, as they drove swiftly down the streets of London side by side, she could not have said.

"At last," Katharine breathed, as the cab drew up at the door. She jumped out and scanned the
pavement on either side. Mary, meanwhile, rang the bell. The door opened as Katharine assured
herself that no one of the people within view had any likeness to Ralph. On seeing her, the
maid said at once:

"Mr. Denham called again, miss. He has been waiting for you for some time."

Katharine vanished from Mary's sight. The door shut between them, and Mary walked slowly and
thoughtfully up the street alone.

Katharine turned at once to the dining-room. But with her fingers upon the handle, she held
back. Perhaps she realized that this was a moment which would never come again. Perhaps, for
a second, it seemed to her that no reality could equal the imagination she had formed. Perhaps
she was restrained by some vague fear or anticipation, which made her dread any exchange or
interruption. But if these doubts and fears or this supreme bliss restrained her, it was only
for a moment. In another second she had turned the handle and, biting her lip to control herself,
she opened the door upon Ralph Denham. An extraordinary clearness of sight seemed to possess
her on beholding him. So little, so single, so separate from all else he appeared, who had
been the cause of these extreme agitations and aspirations. She could have laughed in his face.
But, gaining upon this clearness of sight against her will, and to her dislike, was a flood
of confusion, of relief, of certainty, of humility, of desire no longer to strive and to discriminate,
yielding to which, she let herself sink within his arms and confessed her love.

CHAPTER XXXII

Nobody asked Katharine any questions next day. If cross-examined she might have said that nobody
spoke to her. She worked a little, wrote a little, ordered the dinner, and sat, for longer
than she knew, with her head on her hand piercing whatever lay before her, whether it was a
letter or a dictionary, as if it were a film upon the deep prospects that revealed themselves
to her kindling and brooding eyes. She rose once, and going to the bookcase, took out her father's
Greek dictionary and spread the sacred pages of symbols and figures before her. She smoothed
the sheets with a mixture of affectionate amusement and hope. Would other eyes look on them
with her one day? The thought, long intolerable, was now just bearable.

She was quite unaware of the anxiety with which her movements were watched and her expression
scanned. Cassandra was careful not to be caught looking at her, and their conversation was
so prosaic that were it not for certain jolts and jerks between the sentences, as if the mind
were kept with difficulty to the rails, Mrs. Milvain herself could have detected nothing of
a suspicious nature in what she overheard.

William, when he came in late that afternoon and found Cassandra alone, had a very serious
piece of news to impart. He had just passed Katharine in the street and she had failed to recognize
him.

"That doesn't matter with me, of course, but suppose it happened with somebody else? What would
they think? They would suspect something merely from her expression. She looked--she looked"--he
hesitated--"like some one walking in her sleep."

To Cassandra the significant thing was that Katharine had gone out without telling her, and
she interpreted this to mean that she had gone out to meet Ralph Denham. But to her surprise
William drew no comfort from this probability.

"Once throw conventions aside," he began, "once do the things that people don't do--" and the
fact that you are going to meet a young man is no longer proof of anything, except, indeed,
that people will talk.

Cassandra saw, not without a pang of jealousy, that he was extremely solicitous that people
should not talk about Katharine, as if his interest in her were still proprietary rather than
friendly. As they were both ignorant of Ralph's visit the night before they had not that reason
to comfort themselves with the thought that matters were hastening to a crisis. These absences
of Katharine's, moreover, left them exposed to interruptions which almost destroyed their pleasure
in being alone together. The rainy evening made it impossible to go out; and, indeed, according
to William's code, it was considerably more damning to be seen out of doors than surprised
within. They were so much at the mercy of bells and doors that they could hardly talk of Macaulay
with any conviction, and William preferred to defer the second act of his tragedy until another
day.

Under these circumstances Cassandra showed herself at her best. She sympathized with William's
anxieties and did her utmost to share them; but still, to be alone together, to be running
risks together, to be partners in the wonderful conspiracy, was to her so enthralling that
she was always forgetting discretion, breaking out into exclamations and admirations which
finally made William believe that, although deplorable and upsetting, the situation was not
without its sweetness.

When the door did open, he started, but braved the forthcoming revelation. It was not Mrs.
Milvain, however, but Katharine herself who entered, closely followed by Ralph Denham. With
a set expression which showed what an effort she was making, Katharine encountered their eyes,
and saying, "We're not going to interrupt you," she led Denham behind the curtain which hung
in front of the room with the relics. This refuge was none of her willing, but confronted with
wet pavements and only some belated museum or Tube station for shelter, she was forced, for
Ralph's sake, to face the discomforts of her own house. Under the street lamps she had thought
him looking both tired and strained.

Thus separated, the two couples remained occupied for some time with their own affairs. Only
the lowest murmurs penetrated from one section of the room to the other. At length the maid
came in to bring a message that Mr. Hilbery would not be home for dinner. It was true that
there was no need that Katharine should be informed, but William began to inquire Cassandra's
opinion in such a way as to show that, with or without reason, he wished very much to speak to her.

From motives of her own Cassandra dissuaded him.

"But don't you think it's a little unsociable?" he hazarded. "Why not do something amusing?--go
to the play, for instance? Why not ask Katharine and Ralph, eh?" The coupling of their names
in this manner caused Cassandra's heart to leap with pleasure.

"Don't you think they must be--?" she began, but William hastily took her up.

"Oh, I know nothing about that. I only thought we might amuse ourselves, as your uncle's out."

He proceeded on his embassy with a mixture of excitement and embarrassment which caused him
to turn aside with his hand on the curtain, and to examine intently for several moments the
portrait of a lady, optimistically said by Mrs. Hilbery to be an early work of Sir Joshua Reynolds.
Then, with some unnecessary fumbling, he drew aside the curtain, and with his eyes fixed upon
the ground, repeated his message and suggested that they should all spend the evening at the
play. Katharine accepted the suggestion with such cordiality that it was strange to find her
of no clear mind as to the precise spectacle she wished to see. She left the choice entirely
to Ralph and William, who, taking counsel fraternally over an evening paper, found themselves
in agreement as to the merits of a music-hall. This being arranged, everything else followed
easily and enthusiastically. Cassandra had never been to a music-hall. Katharine instructed
her in the peculiar delights of an entertainment where Polar bears follow directly upon ladies
in full evening dress, and the stage is alternately a garden of mystery, a milliner's band-box,
and a fried-fish shop in the Mile End Road. Whatever the exact nature of the program that night,
it fulfilled the highest purposes of dramatic art, so far, at least, as four of the audience
were concerned.

No doubt the actors and the authors would have been surprised to learn in what shape their
efforts reached those particular eyes and ears; but they could not have denied that the effect
as a whole was tremendous. The hall resounded with brass and strings, alternately of enormous
pomp and majesty, and then of sweetest lamentation. The reds and creams of the background,
the lyres and harps and urns and skulls, the protuberances of plaster, the fringes of scarlet
plush, the sinking and blazing of innumerable electric lights, could scarcely have been surpassed
for decorative effect by any craftsman of the ancient or modern world.

Then there was the audience itself, bare-shouldered, tufted and garlanded in the stalls, decorous
but festal in the balconies, and frankly fit for daylight and street life in the galleries.
But, however they differed when looked at separately, they shared the same huge, lovable nature
in the bulk, which murmured and swayed and quivered all the time the dancing and juggling and
love-making went on in front of it, slowly laughed and reluctantly left off laughing, and applauded
with a helter-skelter generosity which sometimes became unanimous and overwhelming. Once William
saw Katharine leaning forward and clapping her hands with an abandonment that startled him.
Her laugh rang out with the laughter of the audience.

For a second he was puzzled, as if this laughter disclosed something that he had never suspected
in her. But then Cassandra's face caught his eye, gazing with astonishment at the buffoon,
not laughing, too deeply intent and surprised to laugh at what she saw, and for some moments
he watched her as if she were a child.

The performance came to an end, the illusion dying out first here and then there, as some rose
to put on their coats, others stood upright to salute "God Save the King," the musicians folded
their music and encased their instruments, and the lights sank one by one until the house was
empty, silent, and full of great shadows. Looking back over her shoulder as she followed Ralph
through the swing doors, Cassandra marveled to see how the stage was already entirely without
romance. But, she wondered, did they really cover all the seats in brown holland every night?

The success of this entertainment was such that before they separated another expedition had
been planned for the next day. The next day was Saturday; therefore both William and Ralph
were free to devote the whole afternoon to an expedition to Greenwich, which Cassandra had
never seen, and Katharine confused with Dulwich. On this occasion Ralph was their guide. He
brought them without accident to Greenwich.

What exigencies of state or fantasies of imagination first gave birth to the cluster of pleasant
places by which London is surrounded is matter of indifference now that they have adapted themselves
so admirably to the needs of people between the ages of twenty and thirty with Saturday afternoons
to spend. Indeed, if ghosts have any interest in the affections of those who succeed them they
must reap their richest harvests when the fine weather comes again and the lovers, the sightseers,
and the holiday-makers pour themselves out of trains and omnibuses into their old pleasure-grounds.
It is true that they go, for the most part, unthanked by name, although upon this occasion
William was ready to give such discriminating praise as the dead architects and painters received
seldom in the course of the year. They were walking by the river bank, and Katharine and Ralph,
lagging a little behind, caught fragments of his lecture. Katharine smiled at the sound of
his voice; she listened as if she found it a little unfamiliar, intimately though she knew
it; she tested it. The note of assurance and happiness was new. William was very happy. She
learnt every hour what sources of his happiness she had neglected. She had never asked him
to teach her anything; she had never consented to read Macaulay; she had never expressed her
belief that his play was second only to the works of Shakespeare. She followed dreamily in
their wake, smiling and delighting in the sound which conveyed, she knew, the rapturous and
yet not servile assent of Cassandra.

Then she murmured, "How can Cassandra--" but changed her sentence to the opposite of what she
meant to say and ended, "how could she herself have been so blind?" But it was unnecessary
to follow out such riddles when the presence of Ralph supplied her with more interesting problems,
which somehow became involved with the little boat crossing the river, the majestic and careworn
City, and the steamers homecoming with their treasury, or starting in search of it, so that
infinite leisure would be necessary for the proper disentanglement of one from the other. He
stopped, moreover, and began inquiring of an old boatman as to the tides and the ships. In
thus talking he seemed different, and even looked different, she thought, against the river,
with the steeples and towers for background. His strangeness, his romance, his power to leave
her side and take part in the affairs of men, the possibility that they should together hire
a boat and cross the river, the speed and wildness of this enterprise filled her mind and inspired
her with such rapture, half of love and half of adventure, that William and Cassandra were
startled from their talk, and Cassandra exclaimed, "She looks as if she were offering up a
sacrifice! Very beautiful," she added quickly, though she repressed, in deference to William,
her own wonder that the sight of Ralph Denham talking to a boatman on the banks of the Thames
could move any one to such an attitude of adoration.

That afternoon, what with tea and the curiosities of the Thames tunnel and the unfamiliarity
of the streets, passed so quickly that the only method of prolonging it was to plan another
expedition for the following day. Hampton Court was decided upon, in preference to Hampstead,
for though Cassandra had dreamt as a child of the brigands of Hampstead, she had now transferred
her affections completely and for ever to William III. Accordingly, they arrived at Hampton
Court about lunch-time on a fine Sunday morning. Such unity marked their expressions of admiration
for the red-brick building that they might have come there for no other purpose than to assure
each other that this palace was the stateliest palace in the world. They walked up and down
the Terrace, four abreast, and fancied themselves the owners of the place, and calculated the
amount of good to the world produced indubitably by such a tenancy.

"The only hope for us," said Katharine, "is that William shall die, and Cassandra shall be
given rooms as the widow of a distinguished poet."

"Or--" Cassandra began, but checked herself from the liberty of envisaging Katharine as the
widow of a distinguished lawyer. Upon this, the third day of junketing, it was tiresome to
have to restrain oneself even from such innocent excursions of fancy. She dared not question
William; he was inscrutable; he never seemed even to follow the other couple with curiosity
when they separated, as they frequently did, to name a plant, or examine a fresco. Cassandra
was constantly studying their backs. She noticed how sometimes the impulse to move came from
Katharine, and sometimes from Ralph; how, sometimes, they walked slow, as if in profound intercourse,
and sometimes fast, as if in passionate. When they came together again nothing could be more
unconcerned than their manner.

"We have been wondering whether they ever catch a fish..." or, "We must leave time to visit
the Maze." Then, to puzzle her further, William and Ralph filled in all interstices of meal-times
or railway journeys with perfectly good-tempered arguments; or they discussed politics, or
they told stories, or they did sums together upon the backs of old envelopes to prove something.
She suspected that Katharine was absent-minded, but it was impossible to tell. There were moments
when she felt so young and inexperienced that she almost wished herself back with the silkworms
at Stogdon House, and not embarked upon this bewildering intrigue.

These moments, however, were only the necessary shadow or chill which proved the substance
of her bliss, and did not damage the radiance which seemed to rest equally upon the whole party.
The fresh air of spring, the sky washed of clouds and already shedding warmth from its blue,
seemed the reply vouchsafed by nature to the mood of her chosen spirits. These chosen spirits
were to be found also among the deer, dumbly basking, and among the fish, set still in mid-stream,
for they were mute sharers in a benignant state not needing any exposition by the tongue. No
words that Cassandra could come by expressed the stillness, the brightness, the air of expectancy
which lay upon the orderly beauty of the grass walks and gravel paths down which they went
walking four abreast that Sunday afternoon. Silently the shadows of the trees lay across the
broad sunshine; silence wrapt her heart in its folds. The quivering stillness of the butterfly
on the half-opened flower, the silent grazing of the deer in the sun, were the sights her eye
rested upon and received as the images of her own nature laid open to happiness and trembling
in its ecstasy.

But the afternoon wore on, and it became time to leave the gardens. As they drove from Waterloo
to Chelsea, Katharine began to have some compunction about her father, which, together with
the opening of offices and the need of working in them on Monday, made it difficult to plan
another festival for the following day. Mr. Hilbery had taken their absence, so far, with paternal
benevolence, but they could not trespass upon it indefinitely. Indeed, had they known it, he
was already suffering from their absence, and longing for their return.

He had no dislike of solitude, and Sunday, in particular, was pleasantly adapted for letter-writing,
paying calls, or a visit to his club. He was leaving the house on some such suitable expedition
towards tea-time when he found himself stopped on his own doorstep by his sister, Mrs. Milvain.
She should, on hearing that no one was at home, have withdrawn submissively, but instead she
accepted his half-hearted invitation to come in, and he found himself in the melancholy position
of being forced to order tea for her and sit in the drawing-room while she drank it. She speedily
made it plain that she was only thus exacting because she had come on a matter of business.
He was by no means exhilarated at the news.

"Katharine is out this afternoon," he remarked. "Why not come round later and discuss it with
her--with us both, eh?"

"My dear Trevor, I have particular reasons for wishing to talk to you alone.... Where is Katharine?"

"She's out with her young man, naturally. Cassandra plays the part of chaperone very usefully.
A charming young woman that--a great favorite of mine." He turned his stone between his fingers,
and conceived different methods of leading Celia away from her obsession, which, he supposed,
must have reference to the domestic affairs of Cyril as usual.

"With Cassandra," Mrs. Milvain repeated significantly. "With Cassandra."

"Yes, with Cassandra," Mr. Hilbery agreed urbanely, pleased at the diversion. "I think they
said they were going to Hampton Court, and I rather believe they were taking a protege of mine,
Ralph Denham, a very clever fellow, too, to amuse Cassandra. I thought the arrangement very
suitable." He was prepared to dwell at some length upon this safe topic, and trusted that Katharine
would come in before he had done with it.

"Hampton Court always seems to me an ideal spot for engaged couples. There's the Maze, there's
a nice place for having tea--I forget what they call it--and then, if the young man knows his
business he contrives to take his lady upon the river. Full of possibilities--full. Cake, Celia?"
Mr. Hilbery continued. "I respect my dinner too much, but that can't possibly apply to you.
You've never observed that feast, so far as I can remember."

Her brother's affability did not deceive Mrs. Milvain; it slightly saddened her; she well knew
the cause of it. Blind and infatuated as usual!

"Who is this Mr. Denham?" she asked.

"Ralph Denham?" said Mr. Hilbery, in relief that her mind had taken this turn. "A very interesting
young man. I've a great belief in him. He's an authority upon our mediaeval institutions, and
if he weren't forced to earn his living he would write a book that very much wants writing--"

"He is not well off, then?" Mrs. Milvain interposed.

"Hasn't a penny, I'm afraid, and a family more or less dependent on him."

"A mother and sisters?--His father is dead?"

"Yes, his father died some years ago," said Mr. Hilbery, who was prepared to draw upon his
imagination, if necessary, to keep Mrs. Milvain supplied with facts about the private history
of Ralph Denham since, for some inscrutable reason, the subject took her fancy.

"His father has been dead some time, and this young man had to take his place--"

"A legal family?" Mrs. Milvain inquired. "I fancy I've seen the name somewhere."

Mr. Hilbery shook his head. "I should be inclined to doubt whether they were altogether in
that walk of life," he observed. "I fancy that Denham once told me that his father was a corn
merchant. Perhaps he said a stockbroker. He came to grief, anyhow, as stockbrokers have a way
of doing. I've a great respect for Denham," he added. The remark sounded to his ears unfortunately
conclusive, and he was afraid that there was nothing more to be said about Denham. He examined
the tips of his fingers carefully. "Cassandra's grown into a very charming young woman," he
started afresh. "Charming to look at, and charming to talk to, though her historical knowledge
is not altogether profound. Another cup of tea?"

Mrs. Milvain had given her cup a little push, which seemed to indicate some momentary displeasure.
But she did not want any more tea.

"It is Cassandra that I have come about," she began. "I am very sorry to say that Cassandra
is not at all what you think her, Trevor. She has imposed upon your and Maggie's goodness.
She has behaved in a way that would have seemed incredible--in this house of all houses--were
it not for other circumstances that are still more incredible."

Mr. Hilbery looked taken aback, and was silent for a second.

"It all sounds very black," he remarked urbanely, continuing his examination of his finger-nails.
"But I own I am completely in the dark."

Mrs. Milvain became rigid, and emitted her message in little short sentences of extreme intensity.

"Who has Cassandra gone out with? William Rodney. Who has Katharine gone out with? Ralph Denham.
Why are they for ever meeting each other round street corners, and going to music-halls, and
taking cabs late at night? Why will Katharine not tell me the truth when I question her? I
understand the reason now. Katharine has entangled herself with this unknown lawyer; she has
seen fit to condone Cassandra's conduct."

There was another slight pause.

"Ah, well, Katharine will no doubt have some explanation to give me," Mr. Hilbery replied imperturbably.
"It's a little too complicated for me to take in all at once, I confess--and, if you won't
think me rude, Celia, I think I'll be getting along towards Knightsbridge."

Mrs. Milvain rose at once.

"She has condoned Cassandra's conduct and entangled herself with Ralph Denham," she repeated.
She stood very erect with the dauntless air of one testifying to the truth regardless of consequences.
She knew from past discussions that the only way to counter her brother's indolence and indifference
was to shoot her statements at him in a compressed form once finally upon leaving the room.
Having spoken thus, she restrained herself from adding another word, and left the house with
the dignity of one inspired by a great ideal.

She had certainly framed her remarks in such a way as to prevent her brother from paying his
call in the region of Knightsbridge. He had no fears for Katharine, but there was a suspicion
at the back of his mind that Cassandra might have been, innocently and ignorantly, led into
some foolish situation in one of their unshepherded dissipations. His wife was an erratic judge
of the conventions; he himself was lazy; and with Katharine absorbed, very naturally--Here
he recalled, as well as he could, the exact nature of the charge. "She has condoned Cassandra's
conduct and entangled herself with Ralph Denham." From which it appeared that Katharine was
NOT absorbed, or which of them was it that had entangled herself with Ralph Denham? From this
maze of absurdity Mr. Hilbery saw no way out until Katharine herself came to his help, so that
he applied himself, very philosophically on the whole, to a book.

No sooner had he heard the young people come in and go upstairs than he sent a maid to tell
Miss Katharine that he wished to speak to her in the study. She was slipping furs loosely onto
the floor in the drawing-room in front of the fire. They were all gathered round, reluctant
to part. The message from her father surprised Katharine, and the others caught from her look,
as she turned to go, a vague sense of apprehension.

Mr. Hilbery was reassured by the sight of her. He congratulated himself, he prided himself,
upon possessing a daughter who had a sense of responsibility and an understanding of life profound
beyond her years. Moreover, she was looking to-day unusual; he had come to take her beauty
for granted; now he remembered it and was surprised by it. He thought instinctively that he
had interrupted some happy hour of hers with Rodney, and apologized.

"I'm sorry to bother you, my dear. I heard you come in, and thought I'd better make myself
disagreeable at once--as it seems, unfortunately, that fathers are expected to make themselves
disagreeable. Now, your Aunt Celia has been to see me; your Aunt Celia has taken it into her
head apparently that you and Cassandra have been--let us say a little foolish. This going about
together--these pleasant little parties--there's been some kind of misunderstanding. I told
her I saw no harm in it, but I should just like to hear from yourself. Has Cassandra been left
a little too much in the company of Mr. Denham?"

Katharine did not reply at once, and Mr. Hilbery tapped the coal encouragingly with the poker.
Then she said, without embarrassment or apology:

"I don't see why I should answer Aunt Celia's questions. I've told her already that I won't."

Mr. Hilbery was relieved and secretly amused at the thought of the interview, although he could
not license such irreverence outwardly.

"Very good. Then you authorize me to tell her that she's been mistaken, and there was nothing
but a little fun in it? You've no doubt, Katharine, in your own mind? Cassandra is in our charge,
and I don't intend that people should gossip about her. I suggest that you should be a little
more careful in future. Invite me to your next entertainment."

She did not respond, as he had hoped, with any affectionate or humorous reply. She meditated,
pondering something or other, and he reflected that even his Katharine did not differ from
other women in the capacity to let things be. Or had she something to say?

"Have you a guilty conscience?" he inquired lightly. "Tell me, Katharine," he said more seriously,
struck by something in the expression of her eyes.

"I've been meaning to tell you for some time," she said, "I'm not going to marry William."

"You're not going--!" he exclaimed, dropping the poker in his immense surprise. "Why? When?
Explain yourself, Katharine."

"Oh, some time ago--a week, perhaps more." Katharine spoke hurriedly and indifferently, as
if the matter could no longer concern any one.

"But may I ask--why have I not been told of this--what do you mean by it?"

"We don't wish to be married--that's all."

"This is William's wish as well as yours?"

"Oh, yes. We agree perfectly."

Mr. Hilbery had seldom felt more completely at a loss. He thought that Katharine was treating
the matter with curious unconcern; she scarcely seemed aware of the gravity of what she was
saying; he did not understand the position at all. But his desire to smooth everything over
comfortably came to his relief. No doubt there was some quarrel, some whimsey on the part of
William, who, though a good fellow, was a little exacting sometimes--something that a woman
could put right. But though he inclined to take the easiest view of his responsibilities, he
cared too much for this daughter to let things be.

"I confess I find great difficulty in following you. I should like to hear William's side of
the story," he said irritably. "I think he ought to have spoken to me in the first instance."

"I wouldn't let him," said Katharine. "I know it must seem to you very strange," she added.
"But I assure you, if you'd wait a little--until mother comes back."

This appeal for delay was much to Mr. Hilbery's liking. But his conscience would not suffer
it. People were talking. He could not endure that his daughter's conduct should be in any way
considered irregular. He wondered whether, in the circumstances, it would be better to wire
to his wife, to send for one of his sisters, to forbid William the house, to pack Cassandra
off home--for he was vaguely conscious of responsibilities in her direction, too. His forehead
was becoming more and more wrinkled by the multiplicity of his anxieties, which he was sorely
tempted to ask Katharine to solve for him, when the door opened and William Rodney appeared.
This necessitated a complete change, not only of manner, but of position also.

"Here's William," Katharine exclaimed, in a tone of relief. "I've told father we're not engaged,"
she said to him. "I've explained that I prevented you from telling him."

William's manner was marked by the utmost formality. He bowed very slightly in the direction
of Mr. Hilbery, and stood erect, holding one lapel of his coat, and gazing into the center
of the fire. He waited for Mr. Hilbery to speak.

Mr. Hilbery also assumed an appearance of formidable dignity. He had risen to his feet, and
now bent the top part of his body slightly forward.

"I should like your account of this affair, Rodney--if Katharine no longer prevents you from
speaking."

William waited two seconds at least.

"Our engagement is at an end," he said, with the utmost stiffness.

"Has this been arrived at by your joint desire?"

After a perceptible pause William bent his head, and Katharine said, as if by an afterthought:

"Oh, yes."

Mr. Hilbery swayed to and fro, and moved his lips as if to utter remarks which remained unspoken.

"I can only suggest that you should postpone any decision until the effect of this misunderstanding
has had time to wear off. You have now known each other--" he began.

"There's been no misunderstanding," Katharine interposed. "Nothing at all." She moved a few
paces across the room, as if she intended to leave them. Her preoccupied naturalness was in
strange contrast to her father's pomposity and to William's military rigidity. He had not once
raised his eyes. Katharine's glance, on the other hand, ranged past the two gentlemen, along
the books, over the tables, towards the door. She was paying the least possible attention,
it seemed, to what was happening. Her father looked at her with a sudden clouding and troubling
of his expression. Somehow his faith in her stability and sense was queerly shaken. He no longer
felt that he could ultimately entrust her with the whole conduct of her own affairs after a
superficial show of directing them. He felt, for the first time in many years, responsible for her.

"Look here, we must get to the bottom of this," he said, dropping his formal manner and addressing
Rodney as if Katharine were not present. "You've had some difference of opinion, eh? Take my
word for it, most people go through this sort of thing when they're engaged. I've seen more
trouble come from long engagements than from any other form of human folly. Take my advice
and put the whole matter out of your minds--both of you. I prescribe a complete abstinence
from emotion. Visit some cheerful seaside resort, Rodney."

He was struck by William's appearance, which seemed to him to indicate profound feeling resolutely
held in check. No doubt, he reflected, Katharine had been very trying, unconsciously trying,
and had driven him to take up a position which was none of his willing. Mr. Hilbery certainly
did not overrate William's sufferings. No minutes in his life had hitherto extorted from him
such intensity of anguish. He was now facing the consequences of his insanity. He must confess
himself entirely and fundamentally other than Mr. Hilbery thought him. Everything was against
him. Even the Sunday evening and the fire and the tranquil library scene were against him.
Mr. Hilbery's appeal to him as a man of the world was terribly against him. He was no longer
a man of any world that Mr. Hilbery cared to recognize. But some power compelled him, as it
had compelled him to come downstairs, to make his stand here and now, alone and unhelped by
any one, without prospect of reward. He fumbled with various phrases; and then jerked out:

"I love Cassandra."

Mr. Hilbery's face turned a curious dull purple. He looked at his daughter. He nodded his head,
as if to convey his silent command to her to leave the room; but either she did not notice
it or preferred not to obey.

"You have the impudence--" Mr. Hilbery began, in a dull, low voice that he himself had never
heard before, when there was a scuffling and exclaiming in the hall, and Cassandra, who appeared
to be insisting against some dissuasion on the part of another, burst into the room.

"Uncle Trevor," she exclaimed, "I insist upon telling you the truth!" She flung herself between
Rodney and her uncle, as if she sought to intercept their blows. As her uncle stood perfectly
still, looking very large and imposing, and as nobody spoke, she shrank back a little, and
looked first at Katharine and then at Rodney. "You must know the truth," she said, a little lamely.

"You have the impudence to tell me this in Katharine's presence?" Mr. Hilbery continued, speaking
with complete disregard of Cassandra's interruption.

"I am aware, quite aware--" Rodney's words, which were broken in sense, spoken after a pause,
and with his eyes upon the ground, nevertheless expressed an astonishing amount of resolution.
"I am quite aware what you must think of me," he brought out, looking Mr. Hilbery directly
in the eyes for the first time.

"I could express my views on the subject more fully if we were alone," Mr. Hilbery returned.

"But you forget me," said Katharine. She moved a little towards Rodney, and her movement seemed
to testify mutely to her respect for him, and her alliance with him. "I think William has behaved
perfectly rightly, and, after all, it is I who am concerned--I and Cassandra."

Cassandra, too, gave an indescribably slight movement which seemed to draw the three of them
into alliance together. Katharine's tone and glance made Mr. Hilbery once more feel completely
at a loss, and in addition, painfully and angrily obsolete; but in spite of an awful inner
hollowness he was outwardly composed.

"Cassandra and Rodney have a perfect right to settle their own affairs according to their own
wishes; but I see no reason why they should do so either in my room or in my house.... I wish
to be quite clear on this point, however; you are no longer engaged to Rodney."

He paused, and his pause seemed to signify that he was extremely thankful for his daughter's
deliverance.

Cassandra turned to Katharine, who drew her breath as if to speak and checked herself; Rodney,
too, seemed to await some movement on her part; her father glanced at her as if he half anticipated
some further revelation. She remained perfectly silent. In the silence they heard distinctly
steps descending the staircase, and Katharine went straight to the door.

"Wait," Mr. Hilbery commanded. "I wish to speak to you--alone," he added.

She paused, holding the door ajar.

"I'll come back," she said, and as she spoke she opened the door and went out. They could hear
her immediately speak to some one outside, though the words were inaudible.

Mr. Hilbery was left confronting the guilty couple, who remained standing as if they did not
accept their dismissal, and the disappearance of Katharine had brought some change into the
situation. So, in his secret heart, Mr. Hilbery felt that it had, for he could not explain
his daughter's behavior to his own satisfaction.

"Uncle Trevor," Cassandra exclaimed impulsively, "don't be angry, please. I couldn't help it;
I do beg you to forgive me."

Her uncle still refused to acknowledge her identity, and still talked over her head as if she
did not exist.

"I suppose you have communicated with the Otways," he said to Rodney grimly.

"Uncle Trevor, we wanted to tell you," Cassandra replied for him. "We waited--" she looked
appealingly at Rodney, who shook his head ever so slightly.

"Yes? What were you waiting for?" her uncle asked sharply, looking at her at last.

The words died on her lips. It was apparent that she was straining her ears as if to catch
some sound outside the room that would come to her help. He received no answer. He listened, too.

"This is a most unpleasant business for all parties," he concluded, sinking into his chair
again, hunching his shoulders and regarding the flames. He seemed to speak to himself, and
Rodney and Cassandra looked at him in silence.

"Why don't you sit down?" he said suddenly. He spoke gruffly, but the force of his anger was
evidently spent, or some preoccupation had turned his mood to other regions. While Cassandra
accepted his invitation, Rodney remained standing.

"I think Cassandra can explain matters better in my absence," he said, and left the room, Mr.
Hilbery giving his assent by a slight nod of the head.

Meanwhile, in the dining-room next door, Denham and Katharine were once more seated at the
mahogany table. They seemed to be continuing a conversation broken off in the middle, as if
each remembered the precise point at which they had been interrupted, and was eager to go on
as quickly as possible. Katharine, having interposed a short account of the interview with
her father, Denham made no comment, but said:

"Anyhow, there's no reason why we shouldn't see each other."

"Or stay together. It's only marriage that's out of the question," Katharine replied.

"But if I find myself coming to want you more and more?"

"If our lapses come more and more often?"

He sighed impatiently, and said nothing for a moment.

"But at least," he renewed, "we've established the fact that my lapses are still in some odd
way connected with you; yours have nothing to do with me. Katharine," he added, his assumption
of reason broken up by his agitation, "I assure you that we are in love--what other people
call love. Remember that night. We had no doubts whatever then. We were absolutely happy for
half an hour. You had no lapse until the day after; I had no lapse until yesterday morning.
We've been happy at intervals all day until I--went off my head, and you, quite naturally,
were bored."

"Ah," she exclaimed, as if the subject chafed her, "I can't make you understand. It's not boredom--I'm
never bored. Reality--reality," she ejaculated, tapping her finger upon the table as if to
emphasize and perhaps explain her isolated utterance of this word. "I cease to be real to you.
It's the faces in a storm again--the vision in a hurricane. We come together for a moment and
we part. It's my fault, too. I'm as bad as you are--worse, perhaps."

They were trying to explain, not for the first time, as their weary gestures and frequent interruptions
showed, what in their common language they had christened their "lapses"; a constant source
of distress to them, in the past few days, and the immediate reason why Ralph was on his way
to leave the house when Katharine, listening anxiously, heard him and prevented him. What was
the cause of these lapses? Either because Katharine looked more beautiful, or more strange,
because she wore something different, or said something unexpected, Ralph's sense of her romance
welled up and overcame him either into silence or into inarticulate expressions, which Katharine,
with unintentional but invariable perversity, interrupted or contradicted with some severity
or assertion of prosaic fact. Then the vision disappeared, and Ralph expressed vehemently in
his turn the conviction that he only loved her shadow and cared nothing for her reality. If
the lapse was on her side it took the form of gradual detachment until she became completely
absorbed in her own thoughts, which carried her away with such intensity that she sharply resented
any recall to her companion's side. It was useless to assert that these trances were always
originated by Ralph himself, however little in their later stages they had to do with him.
The fact remained that she had no need of him and was very loath to be reminded of him. How,
then, could they be in love? The fragmentary nature of their relationship was but too apparent.

Thus they sat depressed to silence at the dining-room table, oblivious of everything, while
Rodney paced the drawing-room overhead in such agitation and exaltation of mind as he had never
conceived possible, and Cassandra remained alone with her uncle. Ralph, at length, rose and
walked gloomily to the window. He pressed close to the pane. Outside were truth and freedom
and the immensity only to be apprehended by the mind in loneliness, and never communicated
to another. What worse sacrilege was there than to attempt to violate what he perceived by
seeking to impart it? Some movement behind him made him reflect that Katharine had the power,
if she chose, to be in person what he dreamed of her spirit. He turned sharply to implore her
help, when again he was struck cold by her look of distance, her expression of intentness upon
some far object. As if conscious of his look upon her she rose and came to him, standing close
by his side, and looking with him out into the dusky atmosphere. Their physical closeness was
to him a bitter enough comment upon the distance between their minds. Yet distant as she was,
her presence by his side transformed the world. He saw himself performing wonderful deeds of
courage; saving the drowning, rescuing the forlorn. Impatient with this form of egotism, he
could not shake off the conviction that somehow life was wonderful, romantic, a master worth
serving so long as she stood there. He had no wish that she should speak; he did not look at
her or touch her; she was apparently deep in her own thoughts and oblivious of his presence.

The door opened without their hearing the sound. Mr. Hilbery looked round the room, and for
a moment failed to discover the two figures in the window. He started with displeasure when
he saw them, and observed them keenly before he appeared able to make up his mind to say anything.
He made a movement finally that warned them of his presence; they turned instantly. Without
speaking, he beckoned to Katharine to come to him, and, keeping his eyes from the region of
the room where Denham stood, he shepherded her in front of him back to the study. When Katharine
was inside the room he shut the study door carefully behind him as if to secure himself from
something that he disliked.

"Now, Katharine," he said, taking up his stand in front of the fire, "you will, perhaps, have
the kindness to explain--" She remained silent. "What inferences do you expect me to draw?"
he said sharply.... "You tell me that you are not engaged to Rodney; I see you on what appear
to be extremely intimate terms with another--with Ralph Denham. What am I to conclude? Are
you," he added, as she still said nothing, "engaged to Ralph Denham?"

"No," she replied.

His sense of relief was great; he had been certain that her answer would have confirmed his
suspicions, but that anxiety being set at rest, he was the more conscious of annoyance with
her for her behavior.

"Then all I can say is that you've very strange ideas of the proper way to behave.... People
have drawn certain conclusions, nor am I surprised.... The more I think of it the more inexplicable
I find it," he went on, his anger rising as he spoke. "Why am I left in ignorance of what is
going on in my own house? Why am I left to hear of these events for the first time from my
sister? Most disagreeable--most upsetting. How I'm to explain to your Uncle Francis--but I
wash my hands of it. Cassandra goes tomorrow. I forbid Rodney the house. As for the other young
man, the sooner he makes himself scarce the better. After placing the most implicit trust in
you, Katharine--" He broke off, disquieted by the ominous silence with which his words were
received, and looked at his daughter with the curious doubt as to her state of mind which he
had felt before, for the first time, this evening. He perceived once more that she was not
attending to what he said, but was listening, and for a moment he, too, listened for sounds
outside the room. His certainty that there was some understanding between Denham and Katharine
returned, but with a most unpleasant suspicion that there was something illicit about it, as
the whole position between the young people seemed to him gravely illicit.

"I'll speak to Denham," he said, on the impulse of his suspicion, moving as if to go.

"I shall come with you," Katharine said instantly, starting forward.

"You will stay here," said her father.

"What are you going to say to him?" she asked.

"I suppose I may say what I like in my own house?" he returned.

"Then I go, too," she replied.

At these words, which seemed to imply a determination to go--to go for ever, Mr. Hilbery returned
to his position in front of the fire, and began swaying slightly from side to side without
for the moment making any remark.

"I understood you to say that you were not engaged to him," he said at length, fixing his eyes
upon his daughter.

"We are not engaged," she said.

"It should be a matter of indifference to you, then, whether he comes here or not--I will not
have you listening to other things when I am speaking to you!" he broke off angrily, perceiving
a slight movement on her part to one side. "Answer me frankly, what is your relationship with
this young man?"

"Nothing that I can explain to a third person," she said obstinately.

"I will have no more of these equivocations," he replied.

"I refuse to explain," she returned, and as she said it the front door banged to. "There!"
she exclaimed. "He is gone!" She flashed such a look of fiery indignation at her father that
he lost his self-control for a moment.

"For God's sake, Katharine, control yourself!" he cried.

She looked for a moment like a wild animal caged in a civilized dwelling-place. She glanced
over the walls covered with books, as if for a second she had forgotten the position of the
door. Then she made as if to go, but her father laid his hand upon her shoulder. He compelled
her to sit down.

"These emotions have been very upsetting, naturally," he said. His manner had regained all
its suavity, and he spoke with a soothing assumption of paternal authority. "You've been placed
in a very difficult position, as I understand from Cassandra. Now let us come to terms; we
will leave these agitating questions in peace for the present. Meanwhile, let us try to behave
like civilized beings. Let us read Sir Walter Scott. What d'you say to 'The Antiquary,' eh?
Or 'The Bride of Lammermoor'?"

He made his own choice, and before his daughter could protest or make her escape, she found
herself being turned by the agency of Sir Walter Scott into a civilized human being.

Yet Mr. Hilbery had grave doubts, as he read, whether the process was more than skin-deep.
Civilization had been very profoundly and unpleasantly overthrown that evening; the extent
of the ruin was still undetermined; he had lost his temper, a physical disaster not to be matched
for the space of ten years or so; and his own condition urgently required soothing and renovating
at the hands of the classics. His house was in a state of revolution; he had a vision of unpleasant
encounters on the staircase; his meals would be poisoned for days to come; was literature itself
a specific against such disagreeables? A note of hollowness was in his voice as he read.

CHAPTER XXXIII

Considering that Mr. Hilbery lived in a house which was accurately numbered in order with its
fellows, and that he filled up forms, paid rent, and had seven more years of tenancy to run,
he had an excuse for laying down laws for the conduct of those who lived in his house, and
this excuse, though profoundly inadequate, he found useful during the interregnum of civilization
with which he now found himself faced. In obedience to those laws, Rodney disappeared; Cassandra
was dispatched to catch the eleven-thirty on Monday morning; Denham was seen no more; so that
only Katharine, the lawful occupant of the upper rooms, remained, and Mr. Hilbery thought himself
competent to see that she did nothing further to compromise herself. As he bade her good morning
next day he was aware that he knew nothing of what she was thinking, but, as he reflected with
some bitterness, even this was an advance upon the ignorance of the previous mornings. He went
to his study, wrote, tore up, and wrote again a letter to his wife, asking her to come back
on account of domestic difficulties which he specified at first, but in a later draft more
discreetly left unspecified. Even if she started the very moment that she got it, he reflected,
she would not be home till Tuesday night, and he counted lugubriously the number of hours that
he would have to spend in a position of detestable authority alone with his daughter.

What was she doing now, he wondered, as he addressed the envelope to his wife. He could not
control the telephone. He could not play the spy. She might be making any arrangements she
chose. Yet the thought did not disturb him so much as the strange, unpleasant, illicit atmosphere
of the whole scene with the young people the night before. His sense of discomfort was almost
physical.

Had he known it, Katharine was far enough withdrawn, both physically and spiritually, from
the telephone. She sat in her room with the dictionaries spreading their wide leaves on the
table before her, and all the pages which they had concealed for so many years arranged in
a pile. She worked with the steady concentration that is produced by the successful effort
to think down some unwelcome thought by means of another thought. Having absorbed the unwelcome
thought, her mind went on with additional vigor, derived from the victory; on a sheet of paper
lines of figures and symbols frequently and firmly written down marked the different stages
of its progress. And yet it was broad daylight; there were sounds of knocking and sweeping,
which proved that living people were at work on the other side of the door, and the door, which
could be thrown open in a second, was her only protection against the world. But she had somehow
risen to be mistress in her own kingdom, assuming her sovereignty unconsciously.

Steps approached her unheard. It is true that they were steps that lingered, divagated, and
mounted with the deliberation natural to one past sixty whose arms, moreover, are full of leaves
and blossoms; but they came on steadily, and soon a tap of laurel boughs against the door arrested
Katharine's pencil as it touched the page. She did not move, however, and sat blank-eyed as
if waiting for the interruption to cease. Instead, the door opened. At first, she attached
no meaning to the moving mass of green which seemed to enter the room independently of any
human agency. Then she recognized parts of her mother's face and person behind the yellow flowers
and soft velvet of the palm-buds.

"From Shakespeare's tomb!" exclaimed Mrs. Hilbery, dropping the entire mass upon the floor,
with a gesture that seemed to indicate an act of dedication. Then she flung her arms wide and
embraced her daughter.

"Thank God, Katharine!" she exclaimed. "Thank God!" she repeated.

"You've come back?" said Katharine, very vaguely, standing up to receive the embrace.

Although she recognized her mother's presence, she was very far from taking part in the scene,
and yet felt it to be amazingly appropriate that her mother should be there, thanking God emphatically
for unknown blessings, and strewing the floor with flowers and leaves from Shakespeare's tomb.

"Nothing else matters in the world!" Mrs. Hilbery continued. "Names aren't everything; it's
what we feel that's everything. I didn't want silly, kind, interfering letters. I didn't want
your father to tell me. I knew it from the first. I prayed that it might be so."

"You knew it?" Katharine repeated her mother's words softly and vaguely, looking past her.
"How did you know it?" She began, like a child, to finger a tassel hanging from her mother's cloak.

"The first evening you told me, Katharine. Oh, and thousands of times--dinner-parties--talking
about books--the way he came into the room--your voice when you spoke of him."

Katharine seemed to consider each of these proofs separately. Then she said gravely:

"I'm not going to marry William. And then there's Cassandra--"

"Yes, there's Cassandra," said Mrs. Hilbery. "I own I was a little grudging at first, but,
after all, she plays the piano so beautifully. Do tell me, Katharine," she asked impulsively,
"where did you go that evening she played Mozart, and you thought I was asleep?"

Katharine recollected with difficulty.

"To Mary Datchet's," she remembered.

"Ah!" said Mrs. Hilbery, with a slight note of disappointment in her voice. "I had my little
romance--my little speculation." She looked at her daughter. Katharine faltered beneath that
innocent and penetrating gaze; she flushed, turned away, and then looked up with very bright eyes.

"I'm not in love with Ralph Denham," she said.

"Don't marry unless you're in love!" said Mrs. Hilbery very quickly. "But," she added, glancing
momentarily at her daughter, "aren't there different ways, Katharine--different--?"

"We want to meet as often as we like, but to be free," Katharine continued.

"To meet here, to meet in his house, to meet in the street." Mrs. Hilbery ran over these phrases
as if she were trying chords that did not quite satisfy her ear. It was plain that she had
her sources of information, and, indeed, her bag was stuffed with what she called "kind letters"
from the pen of her sister-in-law.

"Yes. Or to stay away in the country," Katharine concluded.

Mrs. Hilbery paused, looked unhappy, and sought inspiration from the window.

"What a comfort he was in that shop--how he took me and found the ruins at once--how SAFE I
felt with him--"

"Safe? Oh, no, he's fearfully rash--he's always taking risks. He wants to throw up his profession
and live in a little cottage and write books, though he hasn't a penny of his own, and there
are any number of sisters and brothers dependent on him."

"Ah, he has a mother?" Mrs. Hilbery inquired.

"Yes. Rather a fine-looking old lady, with white hair." Katharine began to describe her visit,
and soon Mrs. Hilbery elicited the facts that not only was the house of excruciating ugliness,
which Ralph bore without complaint, but that it was evident that every one depended on him,
and he had a room at the top of the house, with a wonderful view over London, and a rook.

"A wretched old bird in a corner, with half its feathers out," she said, with a tenderness
in her voice that seemed to commiserate the sufferings of humanity while resting assured in
the capacity of Ralph Denham to alleviate them, so that Mrs. Hilbery could not help exclaiming:

"But, Katharine, you ARE in love!" at which Katharine flushed, looked startled, as if she had
said something that she ought not to have said, and shook her head.

Hastily Mrs. Hilbery asked for further details of this extraordinary house, and interposed
a few speculations about the meeting between Keats and Coleridge in a lane, which tided over
the discomfort of the moment, and drew Katharine on to further descriptions and indiscretions.
In truth, she found an extraordinary pleasure in being thus free to talk to some one who was
equally wise and equally benignant, the mother of her earliest childhood, whose silence seemed
to answer questions that were never asked. Mrs. Hilbery listened without making any remark
for a considerable time. She seemed to draw her conclusions rather by looking at her daughter
than by listening to her, and, if cross-examined, she would probably have given a highly inaccurate
version of Ralph Denham's life-history except that he was penniless, fatherless, and lived
at Highgate--all of which was much in his favor. But by means of these furtive glances she
had assured herself that Katharine was in a state which gave her, alternately, the most exquisite
pleasure and the most profound alarm.

She could not help ejaculating at last:

"It's all done in five minutes at a Registry Office nowadays, if you think the Church service
a little florid--which it is, though there are noble things in it."

"But we don't want to be married," Katharine replied emphatically, and added, "Why, after all,
isn't it perfectly possible to live together without being married?"

Again Mrs. Hilbery looked discomposed, and, in her trouble, took up the sheets which were lying
upon the table, and began turning them over this way and that, and muttering to herself as
she glanced:

"A plus B minus C equals 'x y z'. It's so dreadfully ugly, Katharine. That's what I feel--so
dreadfully ugly."

Katharine took the sheets from her mother's hand and began shuffling them absent-mindedly together,
for her fixed gaze seemed to show that her thoughts were intent upon some other matter.

"Well, I don't know about ugliness," she said at length.

"But he doesn't ask it of you?" Mrs. Hilbery exclaimed. "Not that grave young man with the
steady brown eyes?"

"He doesn't ask anything--we neither of us ask anything."

"If I could help you, Katharine, by the memory of what I felt--"

"Yes, tell me what you felt."

Mrs. Hilbery, her eyes growing blank, peered down the enormously long corridor of days at the
far end of which the little figures of herself and her husband appeared fantastically attired,
clasping hands upon a moonlit beach, with roses swinging in the dusk.

"We were in a little boat going out to a ship at night," she began. "The sun had set and the
moon was rising over our heads. There were lovely silver lights upon the waves and three green
lights upon the steamer in the middle of the bay. Your father's head looked so grand against
the mast. It was life, it was death. The great sea was round us. It was the voyage for ever
and ever."

The ancient fairy-tale fell roundly and harmoniously upon Katharine's ears. Yes, there was
the enormous space of the sea; there were the three green lights upon the steamer; the cloaked
figures climbed up on deck. And so, voyaging over the green and purple waters, past the cliffs
and the sandy lagoons and through pools crowded with the masts of ships and the steeples of
churches--here they were. The river seemed to have brought them and deposited them here at
this precise point. She looked admiringly at her mother, that ancient voyager.

"Who knows," exclaimed Mrs. Hilbery, continuing her reveries, "where we are bound for, or why,
or who has sent us, or what we shall find--who knows anything, except that love is our faith--love--"
she crooned, and the soft sound beating through the dim words was heard by her daughter as
the breaking of waves solemnly in order upon the vast shore that she gazed upon. She would
have been content for her mother to repeat that word almost indefinitely--a soothing word when
uttered by another, a riveting together of the shattered fragments of the world. But Mrs. Hilbery,
instead of repeating the word love, said pleadingly:

"And you won't think those ugly thoughts again, will you, Katharine?" at which words the ship
which Katharine had been considering seemed to put into harbor and have done with its seafaring.
Yet she was in great need, if not exactly of sympathy, of some form of advice, or, at least,
of the opportunity of setting forth her problems before a third person so as to renew them
in her own eyes.

"But then," she said, ignoring the difficult problem of ugliness, "you knew you were in love;
but we're different. It seems," she continued, frowning a little as she tried to fix the difficult
feeling, "as if something came to an end suddenly--gave out--faded--an illusion--as if when
we think we're in love we make it up--we imagine what doesn't exist. That's why it's impossible
that we should ever marry. Always to be finding the other an illusion, and going off and forgetting
about them, never to be certain that you cared, or that he wasn't caring for some one not you
at all, the horror of changing from one state to the other, being happy one moment and miserable
the next--that's the reason why we can't possibly marry. At the same time," she continued,
"we can't live without each other, because--" Mrs. Hilbery waited patiently for the sentence
to be completed, but Katharine fell silent and fingered her sheet of figures.

"We have to have faith in our vision," Mrs. Hilbery resumed, glancing at the figures, which
distressed her vaguely, and had some connection in her mind with the household accounts, "otherwise,
as you say--" She cast a lightning glance into the depths of disillusionment which were, perhaps,
not altogether unknown to her.

"Believe me, Katharine, it's the same for every one--for me, too--for your father," she said
earnestly, and sighed. They looked together into the abyss and, as the elder of the two, she
recovered herself first and asked:

"But where is Ralph? Why isn't he here to see me?"

Katharine's expression changed instantly.

"Because he's not allowed to come here," she replied bitterly.

Mrs. Hilbery brushed this aside.

"Would there be time to send for him before luncheon?" she asked.

Katharine looked at her as if, indeed, she were some magician. Once more she felt that instead
of being a grown woman, used to advise and command, she was only a foot or two raised above
the long grass and the little flowers and entirely dependent upon the figure of indefinite
size whose head went up into the sky, whose hand was in hers, for guidance.

"I'm not happy without him," she said simply.

Mrs. Hilbery nodded her head in a manner which indicated complete understanding, and the immediate
conception of certain plans for the future. She swept up her flowers, breathed in their sweetness,
and, humming a little song about a miller's daughter, left the room.

The case upon which Ralph Denham was engaged that afternoon was not apparently receiving his
full attention, and yet the affairs of the late John Leake of Dublin were sufficiently confused
to need all the care that a solicitor could bestow upon them, if the widow Leake and the five
Leake children of tender age were to receive any pittance at all. But the appeal to Ralph's
humanity had little chance of being heard to-day; he was no longer a model of concentration.
The partition so carefully erected between the different sections of his life had been broken
down, with the result that though his eyes were fixed upon the last Will and Testament, he
saw through the page a certain drawing-room in Cheyne Walk.

He tried every device that had proved effective in the past for keeping up the partitions of
the mind, until he could decently go home; but a little to his alarm he found himself assailed
so persistently, as if from outside, by Katharine, that he launched forth desperately into
an imaginary interview with her. She obliterated a bookcase full of law reports, and the corners
and lines of the room underwent a curious softening of outline like that which sometimes makes
a room unfamiliar at the moment of waking from sleep. By degrees, a pulse or stress began to
beat at regular intervals in his mind, heaping his thoughts into waves to which words fitted
themselves, and without much consciousness of what he was doing, he began to write on a sheet
of draft paper what had the appearance of a poem lacking several words in each line. Not many
lines had been set down, however, before he threw away his pen as violently as if that were
responsible for his misdeeds, and tore the paper into many separate pieces. This was a sign
that Katharine had asserted herself and put to him a remark that could not be met poetically.
Her remark was entirely destructive of poetry, since it was to the effect that poetry had nothing
whatever to do with her; all her friends spent their lives in making up phrases, she said;
all his feeling was an illusion, and next moment, as if to taunt him with his impotence, she
had sunk into one of those dreamy states which took no account whatever of his existence. Ralph
was roused by his passionate attempts to attract her attention to the fact that he was standing
in the middle of his little private room in Lincoln's Inn Fields at a considerable distance
from Chelsea. The physical distance increased his desperation. He began pacing in circles until
the process sickened him, and then took a sheet of paper for the composition of a letter which,
he vowed before he began it, should be sent that same evening.

It was a difficult matter to put into words; poetry would have done it better justice, but
he must abstain from poetry. In an infinite number of half-obliterated scratches he tried to
convey to her the possibility that although human beings are woefully ill-adapted for communication,
still, such communion is the best we know; moreover, they make it possible for each to have
access to another world independent of personal affairs, a world of law, of philosophy, or
more strangely a world such as he had had a glimpse of the other evening when together they
seemed to be sharing something, creating something, an ideal--a vision flung out in advance
of our actual circumstances. If this golden rim were quenched, if life were no longer circled
by an illusion (but was it an illusion after all?), then it would be too dismal an affair to
carry to an end; so he wrote with a sudden spurt of conviction which made clear way for a space
and left at least one sentence standing whole. Making every allowance for other desires, on
the whole this conclusion appeared to him to justify their relationship. But the conclusion
was mystical; it plunged him into thought. The difficulty with which even this amount was written,
the inadequacy of the words, and the need of writing under them and over them others which,
after all, did no better, led him to leave off before he was at all satisfied with his production,
and unable to resist the conviction that such rambling would never be fit for Katharine's eye.
He felt himself more cut off from her than ever. In idleness, and because he could do nothing
further with words, he began to draw little figures in the blank spaces, heads meant to resemble
her head, blots fringed with flames meant to represent--perhaps the entire universe. From this
occupation he was roused by the message that a lady wished to speak to him. He had scarcely
time to run his hands through his hair in order to look as much like a solicitor as possible,
and to cram his papers into his pocket, already overcome with shame that another eye should
behold them, when he realized that his preparations were needless. The lady was Mrs. Hilbery.

"I hope you're not disposing of somebody's fortune in a hurry," she remarked, gazing at the
documents on his table, "or cutting off an entail at one blow, because I want to ask you to
do me a favor. And Anderson won't keep his horse waiting. (Anderson is a perfect tyrant, but
he drove my dear father to the Abbey the day they buried him.) I made bold to come to you,
Mr. Denham, not exactly in search of legal assistance (though I don't know who I'd rather come
to, if I were in trouble), but in order to ask your help in settling some tiresome little domestic
affairs that have arisen in my absence. I've been to Stratford-on-Avon (I must tell you all
about that one of these days), and there I got a letter from my sister-in-law, a dear kind
goose who likes interfering with other people's children because she's got none of her own.
(We're dreadfully afraid that she's going to lose the sight of one of her eyes, and I always
feel that our physical ailments are so apt to turn into mental ailments. I think Matthew Arnold
says something of the same kind about Lord Byron.) But that's neither here nor there."

The effect of these parentheses, whether they were introduced for that purpose or represented
a natural instinct on Mrs. Hilbery's part to embellish the bareness of her discourse, gave
Ralph time to perceive that she possessed all the facts of their situation and was come, somehow,
in the capacity of ambassador.

"I didn't come here to talk about Lord Byron," Mrs. Hilbery continued, with a little laugh,
"though I know that both you and Katharine, unlike other young people of your generation, still
find him worth reading." She paused. "I'm so glad you've made Katharine read poetry, Mr. Denham!"
she exclaimed, "and feel poetry, and look poetry! She can't talk it yet, but she will--oh,
she will!"

Ralph, whose hand was grasped and whose tongue almost refused to articulate, somehow contrived
to say that there were moments when he felt hopeless, utterly hopeless, though he gave no reason
for this statement on his part.

"But you care for her?" Mrs. Hilbery inquired.

"Good God!" he exclaimed, with a vehemence which admitted of no question.

"It's the Church of England service you both object to?" Mrs. Hilbery inquired innocently.

"I don't care a damn what service it is," Ralph replied.

"You would marry her in Westminster Abbey if the worst came to the worst?" Mrs. Hilbery inquired.

"I would marry her in St. Paul's Cathedral," Ralph replied. His doubts upon this point, which
were always roused by Katharine's presence, had vanished completely, and his strongest wish
in the world was to be with her immediately, since every second he was away from her he imagined
her slipping farther and farther from him into one of those states of mind in which he was
unrepresented. He wished to dominate her, to possess her.

"Thank God!" exclaimed Mrs. Hilbery. She thanked Him for a variety of blessings: for the conviction
with which the young man spoke; and not least for the prospect that on her daughter's wedding-day
the noble cadences, the stately periods, the ancient eloquence of the marriage service would
resound over the heads of a distinguished congregation gathered together near the very spot
where her father lay quiescent with the other poets of England. The tears filled her eyes;
but she remembered simultaneously that her carriage was waiting, and with dim eyes she walked
to the door. Denham followed her downstairs.

It was a strange drive. For Denham it was without exception the most unpleasant he had ever
taken. His only wish was to go as straightly and quickly as possible to Cheyne Walk; but it
soon appeared that Mrs. Hilbery either ignored or thought fit to baffle this desire by interposing
various errands of her own. She stopped the carriage at post-offices, and coffee-shops, and
shops of inscrutable dignity where the aged attendants had to be greeted as old friends; and,
catching sight of the dome of St. Paul's above the irregular spires of Ludgate Hill, she pulled
the cord impulsively, and gave directions that Anderson should drive them there. But Anderson
had reasons of his own for discouraging afternoon worship, and kept his horse's nose obstinately
towards the west. After some minutes, Mrs. Hilbery realized the situation, and accepted it
good-humoredly, apologizing to Ralph for his disappointment.

"Never mind," she said, "we'll go to St. Paul's another day, and it may turn out, though I
can't promise that it WILL, that he'll take us past Westminster Abbey, which would be even better."

Ralph was scarcely aware of what she went on to say. Her mind and body both seemed to have
floated into another region of quick-sailing clouds rapidly passing across each other and enveloping
everything in a vaporous indistinctness. Meanwhile he remained conscious of his own concentrated
desire, his impotence to bring about anything he wished, and his increasing agony of impatience.

Suddenly Mrs. Hilbery pulled the cord with such decision that even Anderson had to listen to
the order which she leant out of the window to give him. The carriage pulled up abruptly in
the middle of Whitehall before a large building dedicated to one of our Government offices.
In a second Mrs. Hilbery was mounting the steps, and Ralph was left in too acute an irritation
by this further delay even to speculate what errand took her now to the Board of Education.
He was about to jump from the carriage and take a cab, when Mrs. Hilbery reappeared talking
genially to a figure who remained hidden behind her.

"There's plenty of room for us all," she was saying. "Plenty of room. We could find space for
FOUR of you, William," she added, opening the door, and Ralph found that Rodney had now joined
their company. The two men glanced at each other. If distress, shame, discomfort in its most
acute form were ever visible upon a human face, Ralph could read them all expressed beyond
the eloquence of words upon the face of his unfortunate companion. But Mrs. Hilbery was either
completely unseeing or determined to appear so. She went on talking; she talked, it seemed
to both the young men, to some one outside, up in the air. She talked about Shakespeare, she
apostrophized the human race, she proclaimed the virtues of divine poetry, she began to recite
verses which broke down in the middle. The great advantage of her discourse was that it was
self-supporting. It nourished itself until Cheyne Walk was reached upon half a dozen grunts
and murmurs.

"Now," she said, alighting briskly at her door, "here we are!"

There was something airy and ironical in her voice and expression as she turned upon the doorstep
and looked at them, which filled both Rodney and Denham with the same misgivings at having
trusted their fortunes to such an ambassador; and Rodney actually hesitated upon the threshold
and murmured to Denham:

"You go in, Denham. I..." He was turning tail, but the door opening and the familiar look of
the house asserting its charm, he bolted in on the wake of the others, and the door shut upon
his escape. Mrs. Hilbery led the way upstairs. She took them to the drawing-room. The fire
burnt as usual, the little tables were laid with china and silver. There was nobody there.

"Ah," she said, "Katharine's not here. She must be upstairs in her room. You have something
to say to her, I know, Mr. Denham. You can find your way?" she vaguely indicated the ceiling
with a gesture of her hand. She had become suddenly serious and composed, mistress in her own
house. The gesture with which she dismissed him had a dignity that Ralph never forgot. She
seemed to make him free with a wave of her hand to all that she possessed. He left the room.

The Hilberys' house was tall, possessing many stories and passages with closed doors, all,
once he had passed the drawing-room floor, unknown to Ralph. He mounted as high as he could
and knocked at the first door he came to.

"May I come in?" he asked.

A voice from within answered "Yes."

He was conscious of a large window, full of light, of a bare table, and of a long looking-glass.
Katharine had risen, and was standing with some white papers in her hand, which slowly fluttered
to the ground as she saw her visitor. The explanation was a short one. The sounds were inarticulate;
no one could have understood the meaning save themselves. As if the forces of the world were
all at work to tear them asunder they sat, clasping hands, near enough to be taken even by
the malicious eye of Time himself for a united couple, an indivisible unit.

"Don't move, don't go," she begged of him, when he stooped to gather the papers she had let
fall. But he took them in his hands and, giving her by a sudden impulse his own unfinished
dissertation, with its mystical conclusion, they read each other's compositions in silence.

Katharine read his sheets to an end; Ralph followed her figures as far as his mathematics would
let him. They came to the end of their tasks at about the same moment, and sat for a time in
silence.

"Those were the papers you left on the seat at Kew," said Ralph at length. "You folded them
so quickly that I couldn't see what they were."

She blushed very deeply; but as she did not move or attempt to hide her face she had the appearance
of some one disarmed of all defences, or Ralph likened her to a wild bird just settling with
wings trembling to fold themselves within reach of his hand. The moment of exposure had been
exquisitely painful--the light shed startlingly vivid. She had now to get used to the fact
that some one shared her loneliness. The bewilderment was half shame and half the prelude to
profound rejoicing. Nor was she unconscious that on the surface the whole thing must appear
of the utmost absurdity. She looked to see whether Ralph smiled, but found his gaze fixed on
her with such gravity that she turned to the belief that she had committed no sacrilege but
enriched herself, perhaps immeasurably, perhaps eternally. She hardly dared steep herself in
the infinite bliss. But his glance seemed to ask for some assurance upon another point of vital
interest to him. It beseeched her mutely to tell him whether what she had read upon his confused
sheet had any meaning or truth to her. She bent her head once more to the papers she held.

"I like your little dot with the flames round it," she said meditatively.

Ralph nearly tore the page from her hand in shame and despair when he saw her actually contemplating
the idiotic symbol of his most confused and emotional moments.

He was convinced that it could mean nothing to another, although somehow to him it conveyed
not only Katharine herself but all those states of mind which had clustered round her since
he first saw her pouring out tea on a Sunday afternoon. It represented by its circumference
of smudges surrounding a central blot all that encircling glow which for him surrounded, inexplicably,
so many of the objects of life, softening their sharp outline, so that he could see certain
streets, books, and situations wearing a halo almost perceptible to the physical eye. Did she
smile? Did she put the paper down wearily, condemning it not only for its inadequacy but for
its falsity? Was she going to protest once more that he only loved the vision of her? But it
did not occur to her that this diagram had anything to do with her. She said simply, and in
the same tone of reflection:

"Yes, the world looks something like that to me too."

He received her assurance with profound joy. Quietly and steadily there rose up behind the
whole aspect of life that soft edge of fire which gave its red tint to the atmosphere and crowded
the scene with shadows so deep and dark that one could fancy pushing farther into their density
and still farther, exploring indefinitely. Whether there was any correspondence between the
two prospects now opening before them they shared the same sense of the impending future, vast,
mysterious, infinitely stored with undeveloped shapes which each would unwrap for the other
to behold; but for the present the prospect of the future was enough to fill them with silent
adoration. At any rate, their further attempts to communicate articulately were interrupted
by a knock on the door, and the entrance of a maid who, with a due sense of mystery, announced
that a lady wished to see Miss Hilbery, but refused to allow her name to be given.

When Katharine rose, with a profound sigh, to resume her duties, Ralph went with her, and neither
of them formulated any guess, on their way downstairs, as to who this anonymous lady might
prove to be. Perhaps the fantastic notion that she was a little black hunchback provided with
a steel knife, which she would plunge into Katharine's heart, appeared to Ralph more probable
than another, and he pushed first into the dining-room to avert the blow. Then he exclaimed
"Cassandra!" with such heartiness at the sight of Cassandra Otway standing by the dining-room
table that she put her finger to her lips and begged him to be quiet.

"Nobody must know I'm here," she explained in a sepulchral whisper. "I missed my train. I have
been wandering about London all day. I can bear it no longer. Katharine, what am I to do?"

Katharine pushed forward a chair; Ralph hastily found wine and poured it out for her. If not
actually fainting, she was very near it.

"William's upstairs," said Ralph, as soon as she appeared to be recovered. "I'll go and ask
him to come down to you." His own happiness had given him a confidence that every one else
was bound to be happy too. But Cassandra had her uncle's commands and anger too vividly in
her mind to dare any such defiance. She became agitated and said that she must leave the house
at once. She was not in a condition to go, had they known where to send her. Katharine's common
sense, which had been in abeyance for the past week or two, still failed her, and she could
only ask, "But where's your luggage?" in the vague belief that to take lodgings depended entirely
upon a sufficiency of luggage. Cassandra's reply, "I've lost my luggage," in no way helped
her to a conclusion.

"You've lost your luggage," she repeated. Her eyes rested upon Ralph, with an expression which
seemed better fitted to accompany a profound thanksgiving for his existence or some vow of
eternal devotion than a question about luggage. Cassandra perceived the look, and saw that
it was returned; her eyes filled with tears. She faltered in what she was saying. She began
bravely again to discuss the question of lodging when Katharine, who seemed to have communicated
silently with Ralph, and obtained his permission, took her ruby ring from her finger and giving
it to Cassandra, said: "I believe it will fit you without any alteration."

These words would not have been enough to convince Cassandra of what she very much wished to
believe had not Ralph taken the bare hand in his and demanded:

"Why don't you tell us you're glad?" Cassandra was so glad that the tears ran down her cheeks.
The certainty of Katharine's engagement not only relieved her of a thousand vague fears and
self-reproaches, but entirely quenched that spirit of criticism which had lately impaired her
belief in Katharine. Her old faith came back to her. She seemed to behold her with that curious
intensity which she had lost; as a being who walks just beyond our sphere, so that life in
their presence is a heightened process, illuminating not only ourselves but a considerable
stretch of the surrounding world. Next moment she contrasted her own lot with theirs and gave
back the ring.

"I won't take that unless William gives it me himself," she said. "Keep it for me, Katharine."

"I assure you everything's perfectly all right," said Ralph. "Let me tell William--"

He was about, in spite of Cassandra's protest, to reach the door, when Mrs. Hilbery, either
warned by the parlor-maid or conscious with her usual prescience of the need for her intervention,
opened the door and smilingly surveyed them.

"My dear Cassandra!" she exclaimed. "How delightful to see you back again! What a coincidence!"
she observed, in a general way. "William is upstairs. The kettle boils over. Where's Katharine,
I say? I go to look, and I find Cassandra!" She seemed to have proved something to her own
satisfaction, although nobody felt certain what thing precisely it was.

"I find Cassandra," she repeated.

"She missed her train," Katharine interposed, seeing that Cassandra was unable to speak.

"Life," began Mrs. Hilbery, drawing inspiration from the portraits on the wall apparently,
"consists in missing trains and in finding--" But she pulled herself up and remarked that the
kettle must have boiled completely over everything.

To Katharine's agitated mind it appeared that this kettle was an enormous kettle, capable of
deluging the house in its incessant showers of steam, the enraged representative of all those
household duties which she had neglected. She ran hastily up to the drawing-room, and the rest
followed her, for Mrs. Hilbery put her arm round Cassandra and drew her upstairs. They found
Rodney observing the kettle with uneasiness but with such absence of mind that Katharine's
catastrophe was in a fair way to be fulfilled. In putting the matter straight no greetings
were exchanged, but Rodney and Cassandra chose seats as far apart as possible, and sat down
with an air of people making a very temporary lodgment. Either Mrs. Hilbery was impervious
to their discomfort, or chose to ignore it, or thought it high time that the subject was changed,
for she did nothing but talk about Shakespeare's tomb.

"So much earth and so much water and that sublime spirit brooding over it all," she mused,
and went on to sing her strange, half-earthly song of dawns and sunsets, of great poets, and
the unchanged spirit of noble loving which they had taught, so that nothing changes, and one
age is linked with another, and no one dies, and we all meet in spirit, until she appeared
oblivious of any one in the room. But suddenly her remarks seemed to contract the enormously
wide circle in which they were soaring and to alight, airily and temporarily, upon matters
of more immediate moment.

"Katharine and Ralph," she said, as if to try the sound. "William and Cassandra."

"I feel myself in an entirely false position," said William desperately, thrusting himself
into this breach in her reflections. "I've no right to be sitting here. Mr. Hilbery told me
yesterday to leave the house. I'd no intention of coming back again. I shall now--"

"I feel the same too," Cassandra interrupted. "After what Uncle Trevor said to me last night--"

"I have put you into a most odious position," Rodney went on, rising from his seat, in which
movement he was imitated simultaneously by Cassandra. "Until I have your father's consent I
have no right to speak to you--let alone in this house, where my conduct"--he looked at Katharine,
stammered, and fell silent--"where my conduct has been reprehensible and inexcusable in the
extreme," he forced himself to continue. "I have explained everything to your mother. She is
so generous as to try and make me believe that I have done no harm--you have convinced her
that my behavior, selfish and weak as it was--selfish and weak--" he repeated, like a speaker
who has lost his notes.

Two emotions seemed to be struggling in Katharine; one the desire to laugh at the ridiculous
spectacle of William making her a formal speech across the tea-table, the other a desire to
weep at the sight of something childlike and honest in him which touched her inexpressibly.
To every one's surprise she rose, stretched out her hand, and said:

"You've nothing to reproach yourself with--you've been always--" but here her voice died away,
and the tears forced themselves into her eyes, and ran down her cheeks, while William, equally
moved, seized her hand and pressed it to his lips. No one perceived that the drawing-room door
had opened itself sufficiently to admit at least half the person of Mr. Hilbery, or saw him
gaze at the scene round the tea-table with an expression of the utmost disgust and expostulation.
He withdrew unseen. He paused outside on the landing trying to recover his self-control and
to decide what course he might with most dignity pursue. It was obvious to him that his wife
had entirely confused the meaning of his instructions. She had plunged them all into the most
odious confusion. He waited a moment, and then, with much preliminary rattling of the handle,
opened the door a second time. They had all regained their places; some incident of an absurd
nature had now set them laughing and looking under the table, so that his entrance passed momentarily
unperceived. Katharine, with flushed cheeks, raised her head and said:

"Well, that's my last attempt at the dramatic."

"It's astonishing what a distance they roll," said Ralph, stooping to turn up the corner of
the hearthrug.

"Don't trouble--don't bother. We shall find it--" Mrs. Hilbery began, and then saw her husband
and exclaimed: "Oh, Trevor, we're looking for Cassandra's engagement-ring!"

Mr. Hilbery looked instinctively at the carpet. Remarkably enough, the ring had rolled to the
very point where he stood. He saw the rubies touching the tip of his boot. Such is the force
of habit that he could not refrain from stooping, with an absurd little thrill of pleasure
at being the one to find what others were looking for, and, picking the ring up, he presented
it, with a bow that was courtly in the extreme, to Cassandra. Whether the making of a bow released
automatically feelings of complaisance and urbanity, Mr. Hilbery found his resentment completely
washed away during the second in which he bent and straightened himself. Cassandra dared to
offer her cheek and received his embrace. He nodded with some degree of stiffness to Rodney
and Denham, who had both risen upon seeing him, and now altogether sat down. Mrs. Hilbery seemed
to have been waiting for the entrance of her husband, and for this precise moment in order
to put to him a question which, from the ardor with which she announced it, had evidently been
pressing for utterance for some time past.

"Oh, Trevor, please tell me, what was the date of the first performance of 'Hamlet'?"

In order to answer her Mr. Hilbery had to have recourse to the exact scholarship of William
Rodney, and before he had given his excellent authorities for believing as he believed, Rodney
felt himself admitted once more to the society of the civilized and sanctioned by the authority
of no less a person than Shakespeare himself. The power of literature, which had temporarily
deserted Mr. Hilbery, now came back to him, pouring over the raw ugliness of human affairs
its soothing balm, and providing a form into which such passions as he had felt so painfully
the night before could be molded so that they fell roundly from the tongue in shapely phrases,
hurting nobody. He was sufficiently sure of his command of language at length to look at Katharine
and again at Denham. All this talk about Shakespeare had acted as a soporific, or rather as
an incantation upon Katharine. She leaned back in her chair at the head of the tea-table, perfectly
silent, looking vaguely past them all, receiving the most generalized ideas of human heads
against pictures, against yellow-tinted walls, against curtains of deep crimson velvet. Denham,
to whom he turned next, shared her immobility under his gaze. But beneath his restraint and
calm it was possible to detect a resolution, a will, set now with unalterable tenacity, which
made such turns of speech as Mr. Hilbery had at command appear oddly irrelevant. At any rate,
he said nothing. He respected the young man; he was a very able young man; he was likely to
get his own way. He could, he thought, looking at his still and very dignified head, understand
Katharine's preference, and, as he thought this, he was surprised by a pang of acute jealousy.
She might have married Rodney without causing him a twinge. This man she loved. Or what was
the state of affairs between them? An extraordinary confusion of emotion was beginning to get
the better of him, when Mrs. Hilbery, who had been conscious of a sudden pause in the conversation,
and had looked wistfully at her daughter once or twice, remarked:

"Don't stay if you want to go, Katharine. There's the little room over there. Perhaps you and
Ralph--"

"We're engaged," said Katharine, waking with a start, and looking straight at her father. He
was taken aback by the directness of the statement; he exclaimed as if an unexpected blow had
struck him. Had he loved her to see her swept away by this torrent, to have her taken from
him by this uncontrollable force, to stand by helpless, ignored? Oh, how he loved her! How
he loved her! He nodded very curtly to Denham.

"I gathered something of the kind last night," he said. "I hope you'll deserve her." But he
never looked at his daughter, and strode out of the room, leaving in the minds of the women
a sense, half of awe, half of amusement, at the extravagant, inconsiderate, uncivilized male,
outraged somehow and gone bellowing to his lair with a roar which still sometimes reverberates
in the most polished of drawing-rooms. Then Katharine, looking at the shut door, looked down
again, to hide her tears.

CHAPTER XXXIV

The lamps were lit; their luster reflected itself in the polished wood; good wine was passed
round the dinner-table; before the meal was far advanced civilization had triumphed, and Mr.
Hilbery presided over a feast which came to wear more and more surely an aspect, cheerful,
dignified, promising well for the future. To judge from the expression in Katharine's eyes
it promised something--but he checked the approach sentimentality. He poured out wine; he bade
Denham help himself.

They went upstairs and he saw Katharine and Denham abstract themselves directly Cassandra had
asked whether she might not play him something--some Mozart? some Beethoven? She sat down to
the piano; the door closed softly behind them. His eyes rested on the closed door for some
seconds unwaveringly, but, by degrees, the look of expectation died out of them, and, with
a sigh, he listened to the music.

Katharine and Ralph were agreed with scarcely a word of discussion as to what they wished to
do, and in a moment she joined him in the hall dressed for walking. The night was still and
moonlit, fit for walking, though any night would have seemed so to them, desiring more than
anything movement, freedom from scrutiny, silence, and the open air.

"At last!" she breathed, as the front door shut. She told him how she had waited, fidgeted,
thought he was never coming, listened for the sound of doors, half expected to see him again
under the lamp-post, looking at the house. They turned and looked at the serene front with
its gold-rimmed windows, to him the shrine of so much adoration. In spite of her laugh and
the little pressure of mockery on his arm, he would not resign his belief, but with her hand
resting there, her voice quickened and mysteriously moving in his ears, he had not time--they
had not the same inclination--other objects drew his attention.

How they came to find themselves walking down a street with many lamps, corners radiant with
light, and a steady succession of motor-omnibuses plying both ways along it, they could neither
of them tell; nor account for the impulse which led them suddenly to select one of these wayfarers
and mount to the very front seat. After curving through streets of comparative darkness, so
narrow that shadows on the blinds were pressed within a few feet of their faces, they came
to one of those great knots of activity where the lights, having drawn close together, thin
out again and take their separate ways. They were borne on until they saw the spires of the
city churches pale and flat against the sky.

"Are you cold?" he asked, as they stopped by Temple Bar.

"Yes, I am rather," she replied, becoming conscious that the splendid race of lights drawn
past her eyes by the superb curving and swerving of the monster on which she sat was at an
end. They had followed some such course in their thoughts too; they had been borne on, victors
in the forefront of some triumphal car, spectators of a pageant enacted for them, masters of
life. But standing on the pavement alone, this exaltation left them; they were glad to be alone
together. Ralph stood still for a moment to light his pipe beneath a lamp.

She looked at his face isolated in the little circle of light.

"Oh, that cottage," she said. "We must take it and go there."

"And leave all this?" he inquired.

"As you like," she replied. She thought, looking at the sky above Chancery Lane, how the roof
was the same everywhere; how she was now secure of all that this lofty blue and its steadfast
lights meant to her; reality, was it, figures, love, truth?

"I've something on my mind," said Ralph abruptly. "I mean I've been thinking of Mary Datchet.
We're very near her rooms now. Would you mind if we went there?"

She had turned before she answered him. She had no wish to see any one to-night; it seemed
to her that the immense riddle was answered; the problem had been solved; she held in her hands
for one brief moment the globe which we spend our lives in trying to shape, round, whole, and
entire from the confusion of chaos. To see Mary was to risk the destruction of this globe.

"Did you treat her badly?" she asked rather mechanically, walking on.

"I could defend myself," he said, almost defiantly. "But what's the use, if one feels a thing?
I won't be with her a minute," he said. "I'll just tell her--"

"Of course, you must tell her," said Katharine, and now felt anxious for him to do what appeared
to be necessary if he, too, were to hold his globe for a moment round, whole, and entire.

"I wish--I wish--" she sighed, for melancholy came over her and obscured at least a section
of her clear vision. The globe swam before her as if obscured by tears.

"I regret nothing," said Ralph firmly. She leant towards him almost as if she could thus see
what he saw. She thought how obscure he still was to her, save only that more and more constantly
he appeared to her a fire burning through its smoke, a source of life.

"Go on," she said. "You regret nothing--"

"Nothing--nothing," he repeated.

"What a fire!" she thought to herself. She thought of him blazing splendidly in the night,
yet so obscure that to hold his arm, as she held it, was only to touch the opaque substance
surrounding the flame that roared upwards.

"Why nothing?" she asked hurriedly, in order that he might say more and so make more splendid,
more red, more darkly intertwined with smoke this flame rushing upwards.

"What are you thinking of, Katharine?" he asked suspiciously, noticing her tone of dreaminess
and the inapt words.

"I was thinking of you--yes, I swear it. Always of you, but you take such strange shapes in
my mind. You've destroyed my loneliness. Am I to tell you how I see you? No, tell me--tell
me from the beginning."

Beginning with spasmodic words, he went on to speak more and more fluently, more and more passionately,
feeling her leaning towards him, listening with wonder like a child, with gratitude like a
woman. She interrupted him gravely now and then.

"But it was foolish to stand outside and look at the windows. Suppose William hadn't seen you.
Would you have gone to bed?"

He capped her reproof with wonderment that a woman of her age could have stood in Kingsway
looking at the traffic until she forgot.

"But it was then I first knew I loved you!" she exclaimed.

"Tell me from the beginning," he begged her.

"No, I'm a person who can't tell things," she pleaded. "I shall say something ridiculous--something
about flames--fires. No, I can't tell you."

But he persuaded her into a broken statement, beautiful to him, charged with extreme excitement
as she spoke of the dark red fire, and the smoke twined round it, making him feel that he had
stepped over the threshold into the faintly lit vastness of another mind, stirring with shapes,
so large, so dim, unveiling themselves only in flashes, and moving away again into the darkness,
engulfed by it. They had walked by this time to the street in which Mary lived, and being engrossed
by what they said and partly saw, passed her staircase without looking up. At this time of
night there was no traffic and scarcely any foot-passengers, so that they could pace slowly
without interruption, arm-in-arm, raising their hands now and then to draw something upon the
vast blue curtain of the sky.

They brought themselves by these means, acting on a mood of profound happiness, to a state
of clear-sightedness where the lifting of a finger had effect, and one word spoke more than
a sentence. They lapsed gently into silence, traveling the dark paths of thought side by side
towards something discerned in the distance which gradually possessed them both. They were
victors, masters of life, but at the same time absorbed in the flame, giving their life to
increase its brightness, to testify to their faith. Thus they had walked, perhaps, twice or
three times up and down Mary Datchet's street before the recurrence of a light burning behind
a thin, yellow blind caused them to stop without exactly knowing why they did so. It burned
itself into their minds.

"That is the light in Mary's room," said Ralph. "She must be at home." He pointed across the
street. Katharine's eyes rested there too.

"Is she alone, working at this time of night? What is she working at?" she wondered. "Why should
we interrupt her?" she asked passionately. "What have we got to give her? She's happy too,"
she added. "She has her work." Her voice shook slightly, and the light swam like an ocean of
gold behind her tears.

"You don't want me to go to her?" Ralph asked.

"Go, if you like; tell her what you like," she replied.

He crossed the road immediately, and went up the steps into Mary's house. Katharine stood where
he left her, looking at the window and expecting soon to see a shadow move across it; but she
saw nothing; the blinds conveyed nothing; the light was not moved. It signaled to her across
the dark street; it was a sign of triumph shining there for ever, not to be extinguished this
side of the grave. She brandished her happiness as if in salute; she dipped it as if in reverence.
"How they burn!" she thought, and all the darkness of London seemed set with fires, roaring
upwards; but her eyes came back to Mary's window and rested there satisfied. She had waited
some time before a figure detached itself from the doorway and came across the road, slowly
and reluctantly, to where she stood.

"I didn't go in--I couldn't bring myself," he broke off. He had stood outside Mary's door unable
to bring himself to knock; if she had come out she would have found him there, the tears running
down his cheeks, unable to speak.

They stood for some moments, looking at the illuminated blinds, an expression to them both
of something impersonal and serene in the spirit of the woman within, working out her plans
far into the night--her plans for the good of a world that none of them were ever to know.
Then their minds jumped on and other little figures came by in procession, headed, in Ralph's
view, by the figure of Sally Seal.

"Do you remember Sally Seal?" he asked. Katharine bent her head.

"Your mother and Mary?" he went on. "Rodney and Cassandra? Old Joan up at Highgate?" He stopped
in his enumeration, not finding it possible to link them together in any way that should explain
the queer combination which he could perceive in them, as he thought of them. They appeared
to him to be more than individuals; to be made up of many different things in cohesion; he
had a vision of an orderly world.

"It's all so easy--it's all so simple," Katherine quoted, remembering some words of Sally Seal's,
and wishing Ralph to understand that she followed the track of his thought. She felt him trying
to piece together in a laborious and elementary fashion fragments of belief, unsoldered and
separate, lacking the unity of phrases fashioned by the old believers. Together they groped
in this difficult region, where the unfinished, the unfulfilled, the unwritten, the unreturned,
came together in their ghostly way and wore the semblance of the complete and the satisfactory.
The future emerged more splendid than ever from this construction of the present. Books were
to be written, and since books must be written in rooms, and rooms must have hangings, and
outside the windows there must be land, and an horizon to that land, and trees perhaps, and
a hill, they sketched a habitation for themselves upon the outline of great offices in the
Strand and continued to make an account of the future upon the omnibus which took them towards
Chelsea; and still, for both of them, it swam miraculously in the golden light of a large steady
lamp.

As the night was far advanced they had the whole of the seats on the top of the omnibus to
choose from, and the roads, save for an occasional couple, wearing even at midnight, an air
of sheltering their words from the public, were deserted. No longer did the shadow of a man
sing to the shadow of a piano. A few lights in bedroom windows burnt but were extinguished
one by one as the omnibus passed them.

They dismounted and walked down to the river. She felt his arm stiffen beneath her hand, and
knew by this token that they had entered the enchanted region. She might speak to him, but
with that strange tremor in his voice, those eyes blindly adoring, whom did he answer? What
woman did he see? And where was she walking, and who was her companion? Moments, fragments,
a second of vision, and then the flying waters, the winds dissipating and dissolving; then,
too, the recollection from chaos, the return of security, the earth firm, superb and brilliant
in the sun. From the heart of his darkness he spoke his thanksgiving; from a region as far,
as hidden, she answered him. On a June night the nightingales sing, they answer each other
across the plain; they are heard under the window among the trees in the garden. Pausing, they
looked down into the river which bore its dark tide of waters, endlessly moving, beneath them.
They turned and found themselves opposite the house. Quietly they surveyed the friendly place,
burning its lamps either in expectation of them or because Rodney was still there talking to
Cassandra. Katharine pushed the door half open and stood upon the threshold. The light lay
in soft golden grains upon the deep obscurity of the hushed and sleeping household. For a moment
they waited, and then loosed their hands. "Good night," he breathed. "Good night," she murmured
back to him.