In the Church of the Servite Friars he painted the Chapel of S. Niccolò, belonging to those
of the palace, with stories of that Saint, wherein he showed very good judgment and grace in
a boat that he painted, demonstrating that he had complete understanding of the tempestuous
agitation of the sea and of the fury of the storm; and while the mariners are emptying the
ship and jettisoning the cargo, S. Nicholas appears in the air and delivers them from that
peril. This work, having given pleasure and having been much praised, was the reason that he
was made to paint the chapel of the high-altar in that church, wherein he made in fresco some
stories of Our Lady, and another figure of Our Lady on a panel in distemper, with many Saints
wrought in lively fashion. In like manner, in the predella of the said panel, he made some
other stories of Our Lady with little figures, whereof there is no need to make particular
mention, seeing that in the year 1467 everything was destroyed when Lodovico, Marquis of Mantua,
made in that place the tribune that is there to-day and the choir of the friars, with the design
of Leon Battista Alberti, causing the panel to be carried into the Chapter-house of that convent;
in the refectory of which Taddeo made, just above the wooden seats, the Last Supper of Jesus
Christ with the Apostles, and above that a Crucifix with many saints.

Having given the last touch to these works, Taddeo Gaddi was summoned to Pisa, where, for Gherardo
and Bonaccorso Gambacorti, he wrought in fresco the principal chapel of S. Francesco, painting
with beautiful colours many figures and stories of that Saint and of S. Andrew and S. Nicholas.
In the figures of this work, seeing that they were taken from nature, there are seen liveliness
and infinite grace, in that simple manner which was in some respects better than that of Giotto,
above all in expressing supplication, joy, sorrow, and other similar emotions, which, when
well expressed, ever bring very great honour to the painter.

Next, having returned to Florence, Taddeo continued for the Commune the work of Orsanmichele
and refounded the piers of the Loggia, building them with stone dressed and well shaped, whereas
before they had been made of bricks, without, however, altering the design that Arnolfo left,
with directions that there should be made over the Loggia a palace with two vaults for storing
the provisions of grain that the people and Commune of Florence used to make. To the end that
this work might be finished, the Guild of Porta S. Maria, to which the charge of the fabric
had been given, ordained that there should be paid thereunto the tax of the square of the grain-market
and some other taxes of very small importance. But what was far more important, it was well
ordained with the best counsel that each of the Guilds of Florence should make one pier by
itself, with the Patron Saint of the Guild in a niche therein, and that every year, on the
festival of each Saint the Consuls of that Guild should go to church to make offering, and
should hold there the whole of that day the standard with their insignia, but that the offering,
none the less, should be to the Madonna for the succour of the needy poor. Wherefore, having
sent for Taddeo Gaddi, for the reason that Giotto his master had gone to Milan, they caused
him to make the model and design of the Ponte Vecchio, giving him instructions that he should
have it brought to completion as strong and as beautiful as might be possible; and he, sparing
neither cost nor labour, made it with such strength in the piers and with such magnificence
in the arches, all of stone squared with the chisel, that it supports to-day twenty-two shops
on either side, which make in all forty-four, with great profit to the Commune, which drew
from them eight hundred florins yearly in rents.