Richmond, Virginia The Bell Book and Stationery Company 1909 Copyright 1909 By Mary Newton Stanard

    In the Sacred Memory
          of
    My Father and Mother

TO THE READER

This study of Edgar Allan Poe, poet and man, is simply an attempt to make something like a
finished picture of the shadowy sketch the biographers, hampered by the limitations of proved
fact, must, at best, give us.

To this end I have used the story-teller's license to present the facts in picturesque form.
Yet I believe I have told a true story--true to the spirit if not to the letter--for I think
I have made Poe and the other persons of the drama do nothing they may not have done, say nothing
they may not have said, feel nothing they may not have felt. In many instances the opinions,
and even the words I have placed in Poe's mouth are his own--found in his published works or
his letters.

I owe much, of course, to the writers of Poe books before and up to my time. Among these, I
would make especial and grateful acknowledgment to Mr. J.H. Ingram, Professor George E. Woodberry,
Professor James A. Harrison and Mrs. Susan Archer Weiss.

But more than to any one of his biographers, I am indebted to Poe himself for the revelations
of his personality which appear in his own stories and poems, the most part of which are clearly
autobiographic.

M.N.S.

THE DREAMER

CHAPTER I.

The last roses of the year 1811 were in bloom in the Richmond gardens and their petals would
soon be scattered broadcast by the winds which had already stripped the trees and left them
standing naked against the cold sky.

Cold indeed, it looked, through the small, smoky window, to the eyes of the young and beautiful
woman who lay dying of hectic fever in a dark, musty room back of the shop of Mrs. Fipps, the
milliner, in lower Main Street--cold and friendless and drear.

She was still beautiful, though the sparkle in the great eyes fixed upon the bleak sky had
given place to deep melancholy and her face was pinched and wan.

She knew that she was dying. Meanwhile, her appearance as leading lady of Mr. Placide's company
of high class players was flauntingly announced by newspaper and bill-board.

The advertisement had put society in a flutter; for Elizabeth Arnold Poe was a favorite with
the public not only for her graces of person and personality, her charming acting, singing
and dancing, but she had that incalculable advantage for an actress--an appealing life-story.
It was known that she had lately lost a dearly loved and loving husband whom she had tenderly
nursed through a distressing illness. It was also known that the husband had been a descendant
of a proud old family and that the same high spirit which had led his grandfather, General
Poe, passionately denouncing British tyranny, to join the Revolutionary Army, had, taking a
different turn with the grandson, made him for the sake of the gifted daughter of old England
who had captured his heart--actress though she was--sever home ties, abandon the career chosen
for him by his parents, and devote himself to the profession of which she was a chief ornament.
A brief five years of idylic happiness the pair had spent together--happiness in spite of much
work and some tears;--then David Poe had succumbed to consumption, leaving a penniless widow
with three children to support. The eldest, a boy, was adopted by his father's relatives in
Baltimore. The other two--a boy of three years in whom were blended the spirit, the beauty,
the talent and the ardent nature of both parents, and a soft-eyed, cooing baby girl--were clinging
about their mother whenever she was seen off the stage, making a picture that was the admiration
of all beholders.

The last roses of the year would soon be gone from the gardens, but Mrs. Fipps' windows blossomed
gallantly with garlands and sprays more wonderful than any that ever grew on tree or shrub.
Not for many a long day had the shop enjoyed such a thriving trade, for no sooner had the news
that Mr. Placide's company would open a season at the theatre been noised abroad than the town
beaux addressed themselves to the task of penning elegant little notes inviting the town belles
to accompany them to the play, while the belles themselves, scenting an opportunity to complete
the wreck of masculine hearts that was their chief business, addressed themselves as promptly
to the quest of the most ravishing theatre bonnets which the latest Paris fashions as interpreted
by Mrs. Fipps could produce. As that lady bustled back and forth among her customers, her mouth
full of pins and hands full of ribbons, feathers, flowers and what not, her face wore, in spite
of her prosperity, an expression of unusual gravity.

She could not get the lodger in the back room off her mind.

Mr. Placide, who had been to see the sick woman, was confident that her disorder was "nothing
serious," and that she would be able to meet her engagements, and charged the thrifty dealer
in fashionable head-gear and furnished rooms by no means to let the fact that the star was
ill "get out." But the fever-flush that tinged the patient's pale cheeks and the cough that
racked her wasted frame seemed very like danger signals to good Mrs. Fipps, and though she
did not realize the hopelessness of the case, her spirits were oppressed by a heaviness that
would not be shaken off.

Ill as Mrs. Poe, or Miss Arnold, as she was still sometimes called, was, she had managed by
a mighty effort of will and the aid of stimulants to appear once or twice before the footlights.
But her acting had been spiritless and her voice weak and it finally became necessary for the
manager to explain that she was suffering from "chills and fevers," from which he hoped rest
and skillful treatment would relieve her and make it possible for her to take her usual place.
But she did not appear. Gradually her true condition became generally known and in the hearts
of a kindly public disappointment gave place to sympathy. Some of the most charitably disposed
among the citizens visited her, bringing comforts and delicacies for her and presents for the
pretty, innocent babes who all unconscious of the cloud that hung over them, played happily
upon the floor of the dark and bare room in which their mother's life was burning out. Nurse
Betty, an ample, motherly soul, with cheeks like winter apples and eyes like blue china, and
a huge ruffled cap hiding her straggly grey locks from view--versatile Betty, who was not only
nurse for the children and lady's maid for the star, but upon occasion appeared in small parts
herself, hovered about the bed and ministered to her dying mistress.

As the hours and days dragged by the patient grew steadily weaker and weaker. She seldom spoke,
but lay quite silent and still save when shaken by the torturing cough. On a Sunday morning
early in December she lay thus motionless, but wide-eyed, listening to the sounds of the church-bells
that broke the quiet air. As the voice of the last bell died away she stirred and requested,
in faint accents, that a packet from the bottom of her trunk be brought to her. When this was
done she asked for the children, and when Nurse Betty brought them to the bedside she gave
into the hands of the wondering boy a miniature of herself, upon the back of which was written:
"For my dear little son Edgar, from his mother," and a small bundle of letters tied with blue
ribbon. She clasped the baby fingers of the girl about an enameled jewel-case, of artistic
workmanship, but empty, for its contents had, alas, gone to pay for food. She then motioned
that the little ones be raised up and allowed to kiss her, after which, a frail, white hand
fluttered to the sunny head of each, as she murmured a few words of blessing, then with a gentle
sigh, closed her eyes in her last, long sleep.

The baby girl began to whimper with fright at the suddenness with which she was snatched up
and borne from the room, and the boy looked with awe into the face of the weeping nurse who,
holding his sister in one arm dragged him away from the bedside and out of the door, by the
hand. There was much hurried tramping to and fro, opening and closing of doors and drawing
to of window-blinds. These unusual sounds filled the boy with a vague fear.

That night the children were put to bed upon a pallet in Mrs. Fipps' own room and Mrs. Fipps
herself rocked the baby Rosalie to sleep and gave the little Edgar tea-cakes, in addition to
his bread and milk, and told him stories of Heaven and beautiful angels playing upon golden
harps. The next day the children were taken back to their mother's room. The shutter to the
window which let in the one patch of dim light was now closed and the room was quite dark,
save for two candles that stood upon stands, one at the foot, the other at the head of the
bed. The air was heavy--sickening almost--with the odor of flowers. Upon the bed, all dressed
in white, and with a wreath of white roses on her dark ringlets, lay their mother, with eyelids
fast shut and a lovely smile on her lips. She was very white and very beautiful, but when her
little boy kissed her the pale lips were cold on his rosy ones, as if the smile had frozen
there. It was very beautiful but the boy was a little frightened.

"Mother--" he said softly, pleadingly, "Wake up! I want you to wake up."

The weeping nurse placed her arm around him and knelt beside the bed.

"She will never wake up again here on earth, Eddie darling. Never--nevermore. She has gone
to live with the angels where you will be with her some day, but never--nevermore on earth."

With that she fell to weeping bitterly, hiding her face on his little shoulder.

The child, marvelling, softly repeated, "Nevermore--nevermore." The solemn, musical word, with
the picture in the dim light, of the sleeping figure--asleep to wake nevermore--and so white,
so white, all save the dusky curls, sank deep into his young mind and memory. His great grey
eyes were wistful with the beauty, and the sadness, and the mystery of it all.

The next day the boy rode in a carriage with Mrs. Fipps and Nurse Betty who had left off the
big white cap and was enveloped from head to foot in black, up a long hill, to a white church
in a churchyard where the grass was still green between the tombstones. The bell in the white
steeple was tolling slowly, solemnly. Soft grey clouds hung over the steeple and snow-flakes
as big as rose-leaves began to fill the air. Presently the bell ceased tolling and he and Nurse
Betty moved up the aisle behind a train of figures in black, with black streamers floating
from their sleeves. The figures bent beneath a heavy burden. It was long and black and grim,
but the flowers that covered it were snow-white and filled the church with a sweet smell. A
white-robed figure led the way up the aisle, repeating, as he walked, some words so solemn
and full of melody that they sounded almost like music. The church was dim, and quiet, and
nearly empty. The organ began to play--oh, so softly! It was very beautiful, but still the
boy shuddered, for he dimly realized that the grim box held the sleeping form that seemed to
be his mother, but was not his real mother. Her kisses were not frozen, and she was in Heaven
with the angels.

The choir sang sweet music and the white-robed priest said more solemn words that were like
spoken music; then the procession moved slowly down the aisle again and out of the door. The
bell in the steeple was silent now, and the organ was silent. Silently the procession moved--silently
the snow came down. Silently and softly, like white flowers. The green graves were white with
it now, like the flowers on the coffin lid; but the open grave in the churchyard corner, near
the wall--it was dark, and deep and terrible! The boy's heart almost stood still as, clinging
to Nurse Betty's hand, he stared into its yawning mouth. He felt that he would choke--would
suffocate. They were lowering the box into that deep, dark pit! What if the sleeping figure
should awake, after all--awake to the darkness and narrowness of that narrow bed!

With a piercing shriek the child broke from his nurse's hand and thrust himself upon the arm
of one of the black figures who held the ropes, in a wild effort to stay him; then, still shrieking,
was borne from the spot.

CHAPTER II.

"Since it seems you have set your heart upon this thing, I do not forbid it; but remember,
you are acting in direct opposition to my judgment and advice, and if you ever live to regret
it (as I believe you shall) you will have no one but yourself to blame."

John Allan's voice was harsher, more positive, than usual; his shoulders seemed to square themselves
and a frowning brow hardened an always austere face. His whole manner was that of a man consenting
against his will. His young wife hung over his chair vainly endeavoring to smooth, with little
pats of her fair hands, the stubborn locks that would stand on end, like the bristles of a
brush, whatever she did. Her soft and vivacious beauty was in striking contrast to the strength
and severity of his rugged and at the same time distinguished countenance. His narrow, steel-blue
eyes, deep sunk under bushy brows and a high, but narrow, forehead, were shrewd and piercing;
his nose was large and like a hawk's beak. His face too, was narrow, with cheek-bones high
as an Indian's. His mouth was large, but firmly closed, and the chin below it was long and
prominent and was carried stiffly above the high stock and immaculate, starched shirt-ruffles.
Her figure, as she leaned against the chair's high back, was slender and girlish,--childish,
almost, in its low-necked, short-waisted, slim-skirted, "Empire" dress, of some filmy stuff,
the pale yellow of a Marshal Niel rose. Her face was a pure oval with delicate, regular features.
Her reddish-brown hair, parted in the middle, was piled on top of her small head, and airy
little curls hung down on her brow on either side of the part. Her eyes--the color of her hair--were
gentle and sweet and her mouth was tenderly curved and rosy. With her imploring attitude, the
sweetness of her eyes and mouth and the warmth of her plea, her fresh beauty glowed like a
flower, newly opened. All unmoved, John Allan repeated,

"You will have no one but yourself to blame."

Her ardor undimmed by the chariness of the consent she had gained, she showered the lowering
brow with cool, delicate little kisses until it grew smooth in spite of itself.

"Oh, I know I never shall regret it, John," she cooed. "He is such a beautiful boy--so sweet
and affectionate, so merry and clever! Just what I should like our own little boy to be, John,
if God had blessed us with one."

"I grant you he seems a bonny little lad enough, Frances. But I realize, as it seems you do
not, the risk of undertaking to rear as your own the child of any but the most unquestionable
parentage. I confess the thought of introducing into my family the son of professional players
is extremely distasteful to me."

"But John, dear, you know these Poes were not ordinary players. The father was one of the Maryland
Poes and I understand the mother came of good English stock. She certainly seemed to be a lady
and a good, sweet woman, poor thing! The Mackenzies have decided to adopt the baby Rosalie,
though they have children, as you know; and with this charming little Edgar for my very own
I shall be the happiest woman alive."

"Well, well, keep your pretty little pet, but if he turns out to be other than a credit to
you, don't forget that you were warned."

       *       *       *       *       *

And so the little Edgar Poe--the players' child--became Edgar Allan, with a fond and admiring
young mother who became at once and forever his slave and whose chief object in life henceforth
was to stand between him and the discipline of a not intentionally harsh or unkind, but strict
and uncompromising father; who though he too was fond of the boy, in a way, and proud of his
beauty and little accomplishments, was constantly on the lookout for the cloven foot which
his fixed prejudice against the child's parentage made him certain would appear.

In her delight over her acquisition, Frances Allan was like a child with a new toy. She almost
smothered him with kisses when, accepting her bribe of a spaniel pup and his pockets full of
sugar-kisses, he agreed to call her "Mother." With her own fingers she made him the quaintest
little baggy trousers, of silk pongee, and a velvet jacket, and a tucker of the finest linen.
His cheap cotton stockings were discarded for scarlet silk ones, and for his head, "sunny over
with curls" of bright nut-brown, she bought from Mrs. Fipps, the prettiest peaked cap of purple
velvet, with a handsome gold tassel that fell gracefully over on one shoulder. Thus arrayed,
she took him about town with her to show him to her friends who were ecstatic in their admiration
of his pensive, clear-cut features, his big, grey eyes and his nut-brown ringlets; of his charming
smile and the frank, pretty manner in which he gave his small hand in greeting.

"Oh, but you should hear him recite and sing," the proud foster-mother would say. "And he can
dance, too."

She gave a large dinner-party just to exhibit the accomplishments of her treasure--actually
standing him upon the table when it had been cleared, to sing and recite for the guests. Even
her husband unbent so far as to applaud vigorously the modest, yet self-possessed grace with
which the mite drank the healths of the assembled company--making a neat little speech that
his new mother had taught him.

The boy's young heart responded to the affection of the foster-mother to a certain degree;
but, mere baby though he was, his real heart lay deep in the grave on the hill-top, where the
earthly part of that other mother was lying so still, so white, with the roses on her hair
and the frozen smile on her lips.

The churchyard on the hill was but a short distance away from his new home, and as spring opened,
became a favorite resort of nurses and children. The negro "mammy" who had replaced Nurse Betty
used often to take him there, and often, as she chatted with other mammies, her charge would
wander from her side to the grave against the wall, where he would stretch his small body full
length upon the turf and whisper the thoughts of his infant mind to the dear one below; for
who knew but that, even down under ground she might be glad to hear, through her white sleep,
her little boy's words of love and remembrance--though never, nevermore she could see him on
earth. He would even imagine her replies to him, until the conversations with her became so
real that he half believed they were true.

At night, when bed-time came, he said his prayers at the knee of his pretty new mother, who
told him jolly stories and sang him jolly songs, and patted him and soothed him with caresses
which he found very agreeable, and accepted graciously. But he always took the miniature which
had been his dying mother's parting gift to bed with him and he was glad when the new mother
kissed him goodnight and put out the light and softly closed the door behind her; for it was
then, with the picture close against his breast, that the visions came to him--the visions
of angels making sweet music upon golden harps and among them his lost mother, with her sweet
face saddened but made sweeter still by that thought of nevermore.

Oh, that wondrous word nevermore! Its music charmed him, its hopelessness filled and thrilled
him with a strange, a holy sorrow, in which there was no pain.

With the lovely vision still about him, the picture still clasped to his breast, he would sink
into healthful sleep to wake on the morrow a bright, joyous boy, alive to all the pleasures
of the new day--delighting in the beauties of blue sky and sunshine, of whispering tree and
opening flower, ready for sport with his play-fellows and his pets, and full of all manner
of merry pranks and jokes. For in the frame of this small boy there dwelt two distinct personalities--twin
brothers--yet as utterly unlike as strangers and foreigners, thinking different thoughts, speaking
different languages, and dominating him--spirit and body--by turns. One of these we will call
Edgar Goodfellow--Edgar the gay, the laughter-loving, the daring, the real, live, wholesome,
normal boy; keen for the society of other boys and liking to dance, to run, to jump, to climb,
even to fight. The other, Edgar the Dreamer, fond of solitude and silence and darkness, for
they aided him to wander far away from the everyday world to one of make believe created by
himself and filled with beings to whom real people were but as empty shadows; but a world that
the death and burial of his beautiful and adored young mother and the impression made upon
him by those scenes, had tinged with an eternal sadness which hung over it as a veil.

The life of Edgar the Dreamer was filled with the subtle charm of mystery. It was a secret
life. The world in which he moved was a secret world--an invisible world, to whose invisible
door he alone held the key. Edgar the Dreamer was himself an invisible person, for the only
outward difference between him and his twin brother, Edgar Goodfellow, lay in a certain quiet,
listless air and the solemn look in his big, dark grey eyes which his playmates--bored and
intolerant--took as indications that "Edgar was in one of his moods," and his foster-father--eyeing
him keenly and with marked displeasure--as an equally unmistakable indication that he was "hatching
mischief."

There were times when in the midst of the liveliest company this so-called "mood" would possess
the child. He would fall silent; his mouth would become pensive, his dark grey eyes would seem
to be impenetrably veiled; his chin would drop upon his hand; he would seem utterly forgetful
of his surroundings. The familiar Edgar--Edgar Goodfellow--would have given place to Edgar
the Dreamer, who though apparently of the company, would really have slipped through that invisible
portal and wandered far afield with the playmates of his fancy.

At such times Mrs. Allan would say, "Eddie, what are you thinking about?" And brought back
to her world with a jolt, the boy would answer quickly (somewhat guiltily it seemed to Mr.
Allan--noting the startled expression),

"Nothing." It was his first lie, and a very little one, but one that was often repeated; for
he that would guard a secret must be used to practice deception.

Mr. Allan would say, "Wake up, wake up, child! Only the idle sit and stare at nothing and think
of nothing. You'll be growing up an idle, trifling boy if you give way to such a habit."

Between the Allans and Edgar the Dreamer a great gulf lay--for how should a dreamer of day-dreams
reveal himself to any not of his own tribe and kind? Upon Edgar Goodfellow Mrs. Allan doted.
All of her friends agreed with her that so remarkable a child--one so precocious and still
so attractive--had never been seen, and Mr. Allan was secretly, as proud of his wrestling,
running, riding and other out-door triumphs as his wife was of his pretty parlor accomplishments.
Their friends agreed too, that she made him the best of mothers, barring the fact (for which
weakness she was excusable--he was such a love!) that she spoiled him, and perhaps permitted
him to rule her too absolutely. Was he grateful? Oh, well, that would come in time. Appreciation
was not a quality to be expected in children, and what more natural than that the boy should
accept as a matter of course the good things which she made plain it was her chief pleasure
in life to shower upon him? She was indeed, as good a mother as it was possible for a mother
without a highly developed imagination to be.

A most lovely woman was Frances Allan, justly admired and liked by all who knew her. She was
pretty and gracious and sunny-tempered and sweet-natured; charitable--both to society and the
poor--and faithful to her religious duties. Withal, a notable house-keeper, given to hospitality,
fond of "company" and gifted in the art of making her friends feel at home under her roof.
If she was not gifted with a lively imagination she did not know it, and so had not missed
it. As Mr. Allan's wife she had not needed it. And so she lavished upon Edgar Goodfellow everything
that heart could wish. She delighted to provide him with pets and toys and good things to eat,
and to fill his little pockets with money for him to spend upon himself or upon treating his
friends. Fortunately, the other Edgar--Edgar the Dreamer--was not dependent upon her for his
pleasures, for the beauties of sky and river and garden and wood which nourished his soul were
within his own reach.

If Mrs. Allan had known Edgar the Dreamer, she would have been puzzled and alarmed. If Mr.
Allan had known him he would have been angry. A man of action was John Allan. A canny Scotchman
he, who owed his success as a tobacco merchant to energy and strict attention to business.
If there were dreams in the bowl of the pipe, there was no room for them in the counting-house
of a thrifty dealer in the weed. Meditation had no part in his life--was left out of his composition.
He believed in doing. Day-dreaming was in his opinion but another name for idling, and idling
was sin.

The son of their adoption vaguely realized the lack of kinship--the impossibility of contact
between his nature and theirs, and as time went on drew more and more within himself. The life
of Edgar the Dreamer became more and more secret. So often however, did the warning against
his idle habit fall upon his ears that the plastic conscience of childhood made note of it--confusing
the will of a blind human guardian with that of God. The Eden of his dreams, guarded by the
flaming sword of his foster-father's wrath, began to assume the aspect (because by parental
command denied him) of an evil place--though none the less sweet to his soul--and it was with
a consciousness of guilt that he would steal in and wander there.

Thus the habit that nurtured God-given genius, branded as sin, and forbidden, might have been
broken up, altogether or in part, had not the special providence that looks after the development
of this rare exotic transplanted it to a more fertile soil--a more congenial clime.

CHAPTER III.

Upon a mellow September afternoon three years after the newspapers had announced the death,
in Richmond, Virginia, of Elizabeth Arnold, the popular English actress, generally known in
the United States as Mrs. Poe, the ancient town of Stoke-Newington, in the suburbs of London,
dozing in the shadows of its immemorial elms, was aroused to a mild degree of activity by the
appearance upon its green-arched streets of three strangers--evidently Americans. It was not
so much their nationality as a certain distinguished air that drew attention upon the dignified
and proper gentleman in broadcloth and immaculate linen, the pretty, gracious-seeming and fashionably
dressed lady and especially the little boy of six or seven summers with the large, wistful
eyes and pale complexion, and chestnut ringlets framing a prominent, white brow and tumbling
over a broad, snowy tucker. He wore pongee knickerbockers and red silk stockings and on his
curls jauntily rested a peaked velvet cap from which a heavy gold tassel fell over upon his
shoulder.

The denizens of old Stoke-Newington gazed upon this prosperous trio with frank curiosity; the
reader has already recognized John Allan and his wife, Frances, and little Edgar Poe--their
adopted child.

The sun was still hot, and the refreshing chill in the dusky street, under its arch of interlacing
boughs, was grateful to the tired little traveller. As he moved along, clinging to Mrs. Allan's
hand, his big eyes gazing as far as they might up the long, cool aisle the trees made, the
hazy green distance invited his mystery-loving fancy. The odors of a thousand flowering shrubberies
were on the air and he felt that it was good to be in this dreaming old town--as old, it seemed
to him, as the world; and there was born in him at that moment, though he could not have defined
it, a sense of the picturesquesness, the charm, the fragrance, of old things--old streets,
old houses, old trees, old turf and shrubberies, even--with their haunting suggestions of bygone
days and scenes.

They passed the ancient Gothic church, standing solemn and serene among its mossy tombs. In
the misty blue atmosphere above the elms the fretted steeple seemed to the boy to lie imbedded
and asleep, but even as he gazed upon it the churchbell, sounding the hour, broke the stillness
with a deep, hollow roar which thrilled him with mingled awe and delight.

Ah, here indeed, was a place made for dreaming!

In the midst of the town lay the Manor House School where the scholarly Dr. Bransby, who preached
in the Gothic church on Sundays, upon week-days instructed boys in various branches of polite
learning--and also frequently flogged them. This school was the destination of the three strangers
from America, for here the foundations of young Edgar's education were to be laid during the
several years residence of his foster-parents in London, in which city the boy himself would
pass his holidays and sometimes be permitted to spend week-ends.

The ample grounds of the school were enclosed from the rest of the town by a high and thick
brick wall, dingy with years, which seemed to frown like a prison wall upon the grassy and
pleasantly shaded freedom without. As the boy passed through it he trembled with delicious
awe which was deepened by the ominous creak of the mighty hinges. He fancied himself entering
upon a domain of mystery and adventure where all manner of grim and unearthly monsters might
cross his pathway to be wrestled with and destroyed. The path to the house lay through a small
parterre planted with box and other shrubs, and beyond stretched the playgrounds.

As for the house itself, that appeared to the eyes of the boy as a veritable palace of enchantment.
It was a large, grey, rambling structure of the Elizabethan age. Within, it was like a labyrinth.
Edgar wondered if there were any end to its windings and incomprehensible divisions and sub-divisions--to
its narrow, dusky passages and its steps down and up--up and down; to its odd and unexpected
nooks and corners. Scarce two rooms seemed to him to be upon the same level and between continually
going down or up three or four steps in a journey through the mansion upon which Dr. Bransby
guided him and his foster-parents, the dazed little boy found it almost impossible to determine
upon which of the two main floors he happened to be. It was afterward to become a source of
secret satisfaction to him that he never finally decided upon which floor was the dim sleeping
apartment to which he was introduced soon after supper, and which he shared with eighteen or
twenty other boys.

The business of formally entering the pupil about whom the Allans and Dr. Bransby had already
corresponded, in the school, was soon dispatched, and once more the iron gate swung open upon
its weirdly complaining hinges, then went to again with a bang and a clang, and the little
boy from far Virginia, with the wistful grey eyes and the sunny curls was alone in a throng
of curious school-fellows, and in the dimness, the strangeness, the vastness of a hoary, mysterious
mansion full of echoes, and of quaint crannies and closets where shadows lurked by day as well
as by candle-light. Alone, yet not unhappy--for Edgar the Dreamer was holding full sway. With
the departure of his foster-father, all check was removed from his fancy which could, and did,
run riot in this creepy and fascinating old place, and at night he had to comfort him the miniature
of his mother from which he had never been parted for an hour, and which he still carried to
bed with him with unfailing regularity.

He had always known that his mother was English-born, and somehow, in his mind, there seemed
to be some mystic connection between this ancient town and manor house and the green graveyard
in Richmond, with its mouldy tombstones and encompassing wall.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not until the next morning was the new pupil ushered into the school-room--the largest room
in the world it seemed to the small, lonely stranger. It was long, narrow and low-pitched.
Its ceiling was of oak, black with age, and the daylight struggled fitfully in through pointed,
Gothic windows. Built into a remote and terror-inspiring corner was a box-like enclosure, eight
or ten feet high, of heavy oak, like the ceiling, with a massy door of the same sombre wood.

But it was not only Edgar the Dreamer who came to Manor House School, who passed out of the
great iron gate and through the elm avenues to the Gothic church on Sundays, and who regularly,
on two afternoons in the week, made a decorous escape from the confinement of the frowning
walls, and in company with the whole school, in orderly procession, and duly escorted by an
usher, tramped past the church and into the pleasant green fields that lay beyond the quaint
houses of the village. Edgar Goodfellow was there too--Edgar the gay, the frolicsome, the lover
of sports and hoaxes and trials of strength.

Upon the evening of the young American's arrival, his schoolmates kept their distance, regarding
him with shy curiosity, but by the recess hour next day this timidity had worn off, and they
crowded about him with the pointed questions and out-spoken criticisms which constitute the
breaking in of a new scholar. The boy received their sallies with such politeness and good
humor and with such an air of modest dignity, that the wags soon ceased their gibes for very
shame and the ring-leaders began to show in their manner and speech, an air of approval in
place of the suspicion with which they had at first regarded him.

When the questions, "What's your name?"--"How old are you?"--"Where do you live?" "Were you
sick at sea?"--"What made you come to this school?" "How high can you jump?"--"Can you box?"
"Can you fight?"--and the like, had been promptly and amiably answered, there was a lull. The
silence was broken by young Edgar himself. Drawing himself up to the full height of his graceful
little figure and thumping his chest with his closed fist, he said, "Any boy who wants to may
hit me here, as hard as he can."

The boys looked at each other inquiringly for a moment--they were uncertain, whether this was
a specimen of American humor or to be taken literally. Presently the largest and strongest
among them stepped forward. He was a stalwart fellow for his years, but his excessively blond
coloring, together with the effeminate style in which his mother insisted upon dressing him,
caused the boys to give him the name of "Beauty," which was soon shortened into "Beaut," and
had finally become "the Beau."

"Will you let me hit you?" he asked.

"Yes," replied Edgar. "Count three and hit. You can't hurt me."

As "the Beau" counted, "One--two--three"--Edgar gently inflated his lungs, expanding his chest
to its fullest extent, and then, at the moment of receiving the blow, exhaled the air. He did
not stagger or flinch, though his antagonist struck straight from the shoulder, with a brawny,
small fist.

The rest of the boys, in turn, struck him--each time counting three--with the same result.
Finally "the Beau" said,

"You hit me."

Edgar counted, "One--two--three"--and struck out with clenched fist, but "the Beau" not knowing
the trick, was promptly bowled over on the grass--the shock making quick tears start in his
forget-me-not blue eyes.

The boys were, one and all, open and clamorous in their admiration.

"Pshaw," said young Edgar, indifferently. "It's nothing. All the boys in Virginia can do that."

"Can you play leap-frog?" asked "Freckles"--a wiry looking little fellow, with carotty locks
and a freckled nose, whose leaping had hitherto been unrivalled.

"I'll show you," was the reply.

Instantly, a dozen backs were bent in readiness for the game, and over them, one by one, vaulted
Edgar, with the lightness of a bird, his brown curls blowing out behind him, as his baggy yellow
thighs and thin red legs flew through the air.

"Freckles" magnanimously owned himself beaten at his own game.

"Let's race," said "Goggles"--a lean, long-legged, swathy boy, with a hooked nose and bulging,
black eyes.

Like a flash, the whole lot of them were off down the gravel walk, under the elms. Edgar and
"Goggles"--abreast--led for a few moments, then Edgar gradually gained and came out some twenty
feet ahead of "Goggles," and double that ahead of the foremost of the others.

It was not only these accomplishments in themselves that made the American boy at once take
the place of hero and leader of his form in this school of old England, but the quiet and unassuming
mien with which he bore his superiority--not seeming in the least to despise the weakest or
most backward of his competitors, and good-humoredly initiating them all into the little secrets
of his success in performing apparently difficult feats.

It was the same way with his lessons. Without apparent effort he distanced all of his class-mates
and instead of pluming himself upon it, was always ready to help them with their Latin or their
sums, whose answers he seemed to find by magic, almost.

CHAPTER IV.

During the winter before Edgar went to Stoke-Newington, he had attended an "infant school,"
in Richmond, taught by a somewhat gaunt, but mild-mannered spinster, with big spectacles over
her amiable blue eyes, a starchy cap and a little bunch of frosty cork-screw curls on each
side of her face. As a child, she had played with Mr. Allan's father on their native heath,
in Ayrshire, and to her, little Edgar was always her "ain wee laddie." She had spoiled him
inordinately and unblushingly. Also, as she contentedly drew at the pipe filled with the offerings
of choice smoking-tobacco which he frequently turned out of his pockets into her lap, she had
taught him to read in her own broad Scottish accent, and to cypher.

She had furthermore drilled him in making "pothooks and hangers," with which he covered his
slate in neat rows, daily. But it was at the Manor House, in Stoke-Newington, that he was initiated
into the mysteries of writing. His hands were as shapely as a girl's, with deft, taper fingers
that seemed made to hold a pen or brush, and he soon developed a neat, small, but beautifully
clear and graceful hand-writing.

This new accomplishment became at once a delight to him, and as time went on opened a new world
to Edgar the Dreamer, who now began, when he could snatch an opportunity to do so unobserved,
to put down upon paper the visions of his awakening soul. Sometimes these scribblings took
the form of little stories--crudely conceived and incoherently expressed, but rich in the picturesque
thought and language of an exceptionably imaginative and precocious child. Sometimes they were
in verse. For subjects these infant effusions had generally to do with the lonely grave in
the churchyard in Richmond and the sad joy of the heart that mourns evermore; with the beauty
of flowers--the more beautiful because doomed to a brief life; with the Gothic steeple, asleep
in the still, blue air, and the bell in whose deep iron throat dwelt a note that was hollow
and ghostly; with the great wall around the Manor House grounds and with the mighty gate that
swung upon hinges in which the voice of a soul in torment seemed to be imprisoned, and with
other things which filled him with a terror that

      "was not fright,
    But a tremulous delight."

His learning to write bore still another fruit.

When Mrs. Allan had first adopted him and set apart a room in her home for him, she had placed
in a little cabinet therein the packet of letters his dying mother had given him. She had not
opened the packet, for she felt that the letters were for the actress's child's eye alone.
He, when he looked at it, did so with a feeling of mixed reverence and fascination which was
deepened by his inability to decipher the secrets bound together by the bit of blue ribbon
tied around it. How the sight of the packet recalled to him that sad, that solemn hour in which
it had been given into his hands! When getting him ready for boarding-school, Mrs. Allan had
packed the letters with his other belongings, for she was a woman of sentiment, and she felt
the child should not be parted from this gift of his dying mother. But at length, when a knowledge
of writing made it possible for him to read the letters, he was possessed with a feeling of
shrinking from doing so, as one might shrink from opening a message from the grave.

What grim, what terrible secrets, might not the little bundle of letters reveal!

It was not until his fifth and last year at Stoke-Newington that Edgar decided one day to look
into the packet. He was confined to his bed by slight indisposition and so had the dormitory
to himself and could risk opening the letters without fear of interruption. He untied the blue
ribbon and the thin, yellowed papers, with fragments of their broken seals still sticking to
them, fell apart. He picked up the one bearing the earliest date and began to read. It was
from his father to his mother immediately after their betrothal. His interest was at once intensely
aroused and in the order in which the letters came, he read, and read, and read, with the absorption
with which he might have read his first novel. They were a revelation to him--a revelation
of a world he had not known existed, though it seemed, it lay roundabout him--these love-letters
of his parents, literally throbbing with the exalted passion of two young, ardent, poetic spirits.
The boy had not dreamed that anything so beautiful could be as this undying love of which they
wrote and the language in which they made their sweet vows to each other. His own heart throbbed
in answer to what he read. His imagination was violently wrought upon and exquisite feelings
such as he had never known before awakened in his breast.

Under the spell of the letters the child-poet fell in love--not with any creature of flesh
and blood, for his entire acquaintance and association was with boys--but with the ideal of
his inner vision. From that time, his poetic outbursts came to be filled with--more than aught
else--the surpassing beauty, the worshipful goodness, the divine love of woman. He was a naturally
reverent boy, but for these more than mortal beings, as they appeared to his fancy, was reserved
the supreme worship of his romantic soul. Indeed, the adoration of his ideal woman--perfect
in body, in mind and in soul, became, and was to be always, a religion to him.

To imagine himself rescuing from a dark prison tower, hid in a deep wood, or from a watery
grave in a black and rock-bound lake, at midnight, some lovely maiden whose every thought and
heart-beat would thenceforth be for him alone--this became the entrancing inward vision of
Edgar the Dreamer--the poet--the lover, at whom Edgar Goodfellow with whisper as insistent
as the voice of Conscience, scoffed and sneered, seeking to make him ashamed; but all in vain.

Of course it was to follow, as the night the day, that the boy would find someone in whom to
dress his ideal. Upon a Sunday soon after his falling in love, he saw the very maiden of his
dreams in the flesh. It was in the Gothic church. From the remote pew in the gallery where
he sat with his school-mates, he looked down upon a wonderful vision of white and gold in one
of the principal pews of the main aisle. Clad all in white and with a shower of golden tresses
falling over her shoulders, she was like a glorious lily or a holy angel. Her eyes, uplifted
in the rapture of worship, he divined, rather than saw, were of the hue of heaven itself. He
loved her at once, with all his soul's might. Her name? Her home? These were mysteries--sacred
mysteries--whose unfathomableness but added to her charm.

After that, service in the Gothic church was a much more important event to The Dreamer than
before--an event looked forward to with trembling from Sunday to Sunday. After that too, upon
his periodical week-day walks with the school, he would look up at the quaint old homesteads
they passed, with their hedged gardens, ivied walls and sweet-scented shrubberies, and try
to guess which was the house-wonderful in which she dwelt. Then suddenly, one sweet May afternoon,
he discovered it.

It was, as was fitting, the most antique, the most distinguished mansion of them all. He saw
her through the bars of the stately entrance gate as she sat beside her mother, on a garden-seat,
tying into nosegays the flowers that filled her lap. Stupified by the shock of the discovery,
he stood rooted to the ground, letting his school-mates go on ahead of him. She was much nearer
him than she had been in the dusky church, and upon closer view, she seemed even more lovely,
more flower-like, more angelic than ever before. He stared upon her face with a gaze so compelling
that she looked up and smiled at him; then, with sudden impulse, gathered her flowers in her
apron, and running forward, handed him through the gate, a fragrant, creamy bud that she happened
at the moment to have in her hand.

As in a dream, he stretched his fingers for it. He tried to frame an expression of thanks,
but his lips were dry and though they moved, no sound came. She had returned at once to her
seat beside her mother, and the voice of the usher (who had just missed him) sharply calling
to him to "Come on!" was in his ears. He hurried forward, trembling in all his limbs. Twice
he stumbled and nearly fell. The bud, he had quickly hidden within his jacket--it was too holy
a thing for the profane eyes of his school-fellows to look upon.

When strength and reason came back to him he was like a new being. Happiness gave wings to
his feet and he walked on air. A divine song seemed to be singing in his ears. Mechanically,
he went through the regular routine of school, with no difference that others could see. To
himself, heart and soul--detached and divorced from his body--seemed soaring in a new and beautiful
world in which lessons and teachers had no place, no part. Whenever it was possible for him
to do so unobserved, he would snatch the rose from his bosom and kiss and caress it. He only
lived to see Sunday come round.

But on the next Sunday and the next she was absent from her accustomed place. Such a thing
had not happened before since he had first seen her. He was filled with the first real anxiety
he had ever known. Here was a mystery in which there was no charm!

The Wednesday after the second Sunday upon which he had missed her was a day dropped out of
heaven. The mild, early summer air that floated through the open windows into the gloomy, oak-ceiled
schoolroom, was ambrosial with the breathings of flowers. Young Edgar could not fix his thoughts
upon the page before him. The out-of-door world was calling to him. He found himself listening
to the birds in the trees outside and gazing through the narrow, pointed windows at the waving
branches.

Suddenly his heart stopped. The deep, sweet, hollow, ghostlike voice of the bell in the steeple,
tolling for a funeral, was borne to his ears. In a moment his fevered imagination associated
the tolling with the absence of his divinity from her pew, and in spite of passionately assuring
himself that it could not be, and recalling how lovely and full of health she had been when
he saw her through the gate, he was possessed by deep melancholy.

The days and hours until Sunday seemed an age to him--an age of foreboding and dread--but they
at last passed by. In a fever of anxiety, he walked with the rest of the boys to church, and
mounted the steps to the school gallery.

It was early; few of the worshippers had arrived, but in a little while there was a stir near
the door. A group of figures shrouded in the black habiliments of woe were moving up the aisle--were
entering her pew, from which alas, she was again absent!

Then he knew--knew that she would enter that sacred place nevermore!

After the service there were inquiries as to the cause of a commotion in the gallery occupied
by the Manor House School, and it was said in reply that the weather being excessively hot
for the season, one of the boys had fainted.

CHAPTER V.

The June following young Edgar's eleventh birthday found him in Richmond once more. The village-like
little capital was all greenery and roses and sunshine and bird-song and light-hearted laughter,
and he felt, with a glow, that it was good to be back.

In the five years of his absence he had grown quite tall for his age, with a certain dignity
and self-possession of bearing acquired from becoming accustomed to depend upon himself. All
that was left of the nut-brown curls that used to flow over his shoulders were the clustering
ringlets that covered his head and framed his large brow. His absence had also wrought in him
other and more subtle changes which did not appear to the friends who remarked upon what a
great boy he had grown--a maturity from having lived in another world--from having had his
thoughts expanded by new scenes and quickened by the suggestions of historic association and
surroundings.

But with his return, England and Stoke-Newington sank into the shadowy past--their spell weakened,
for the time being, by the thought-absorbing, heart-filling scenes of which he had now become
a part. The years at the Manor House School were as a dream--this was the real thing--this
was Home. Home--ah, the charm of that word and all it implied! His heart swelled, his eyes
grew misty as he said it over and over to himself. The clatter of drays "down town" was like
music in his ears, the dusty streets of the residential section were fair to his eyes for old
time's sake. How he loved the very pavement under his feet, rough and uneven as it was; how
dearly he loved the trees that he had climbed (and would climb again) which stretched their
friendly boughs over his head!

In a state of happy excitement he rushed about town, visiting his old haunts to see if they
were still there, and "the same."

"Comrade," his brown spaniel--his favorite of all his pets--had grown old and sober and had
quite forgotten him, but his love was soon reawakened. The boys he had played with, too, had
almost forgotten him, but his return called him to mind again and put them all in a flutter.
A boy who had lived five years on the other side of the ocean and had been to an English boarding
school, was not seen in Richmond every day. Mrs. Allan gave him a party to which all of the
children in their circle were invited. In anticipation of this, he had purchased in London,
out of the abundance of pocket-money with which his doting foster-mother always saw to it he
was provided, a number of little gifts to be distributed among the boys at home. These, with
the distinction his travels gave him, made him the man of the hour among Richmond children.
And how much he had to tell! At Stoke-Newington it was always the boys at home that were the
heroes of the stories he spun by the yard for the entertainment of his school-fellows--the
literal among whom had come to believe that there was no feat a Virginia boy could not perform.
Now that he was in Richmond, the Stoke-Newington boys themselves loomed up as the wonder-workers,
and his playmates listened with admiration and with such expression as, "Caesar's ghost!"--"Jiminy!"--"Cracky!"
and the like, as he narrated his tales of "Freckles," "Goggles," "the Beau," and the rest.

One of his first visits after reaching home was to his old black "Mammy," in the tiny cottage,
with its prolific garden-spot, on the outskirts of the town, in which Mr. Allan had installed
her and her husband, "Uncle Billy," before leaving Virginia.

"Mammy" was expecting him. With one half of her attention upon the white cotton socks she was
knitting for her spouse and the other half on the gate of her small garden through which her
"chile" would come, she sat in her doorway awaiting him. She was splendidly arrayed in her
new purple calico and a big white apron, just from under the iron. Her gayest bandanna "hankercher"
covered her tightly "wropped" locks from view and the snowiest of "neckerchers" was crossed
over her ample bosom. Her kind, black countenance was soft with thoughts of love.

"Uncle Billy," too, was spruced for the occasion. Indeed, he was quite magnificent in a "biled
shut," with ruffles, and an old dresscoat of "Marster's." His top-boots were elaborately blacked,
and a somewhat battered stove-pipe hat crowned his bushy grey wool. Each of the old folks comfortably
smoked a corn-cob pipe.

"Mammy" saw her boy coming first. She could hardly believe it was he--he was so tall--but she
was up and away, down the path, in a flash. Half-way to the gate that opened on the little
back street, she met him and enveloped him at once in her loving arms.

"Bless de Lord, O my soul!" she repeated over and over again in a sort of chant, as she held
him against her bosom and rocked back and forth on her broad feet, tears of joy rolling down
her face.

"De probable am returned," announced Uncle Billy, solemnly.

"G'long, Billy," she said, contemptuously. "He ain' no probable. He jes' Mammy's own li'l'
chile, if he is growed so tall!"

"I'se only 'peatin' what de Good Book say," replied Uncle Billy, with dignity.

Edgar was crying too, and laughing at the same time.

"Howdy, Uncle Billy," said he, stretching a hand to the old man as soon as he could extricate
himself from Mammy's embrace. "My, my, you do look scrumptious! How's the rheumatiz?"

"Now jes' heah dat! Rememberin' uv de ole man's rheumatiz arter all dis time!" exclaimed the
delighted Uncle Billy. "'Twus mighty po'ly, thankee, li'l Marster, but de sight o' you done
make it better a'ready. I 'clar 'fo' Gracious, if de sight of you wouldn' be good for so' eyes!
Socifyin' wid dem wile furren nations ain' hu't you a bit--'deed it ain't!"

"How did you expect them to hurt me, Uncle Billy?" asked Edgar, laughing.

"I was 'feard dey mought make a Injun, or sum'in' out'n you."

"G'long, Billy," put in his wife, with increased contempt, "Marse Eddie ain' been socifyin'
wid no Injuns--he been socifyin' wid kings an' queens' settin' on dey thrones, wid crowns on
dey haids an' spectres in dey han's! Come 'long in de house, Honey, an' set awhile wid Mammy."

As they crossed the threshold of the humble abode, Edgar looked around upon its familiar, homely
snugness with satisfaction--at the huge, four-post bed, covered with a cheerful "log cabin"
quilt made of scraps of calico of every known hue and pattern; at the white-washed walls adorned
with pictures cut from old books and magazines; at the "shelf," as Mammy called the mantel-piece,
with its lambrequin of scallopped strips of newspaper, and its china vases filled with hundred-leaf
roses and pinks; at the spotless bare floor and homemade split-bottomed chairs; at the small,
but bright, windows, with their rows of geraniums and verbenas, brilliantly blooming in boxes,
tin-cans and broken-nosed tea-pots.

Almost all that Mammy could say was,

"Lordy, Lordy, Honey, how you has growed!" Or, "Jes' to think of Mammy's baby sech a big boy!"

Presently a shadow crossed her face. "Honey," she said, "You gittin' to be sech a man now,
you won't have no mo' use fur po' ole Mammy. Dar won't be a thing fur her to do fur sech a
big man-chile."

"Don't you believe that, for a minute, Mammy," was the quick reply. "I was just wondering if
you had forgotten how to make those good ash-cakes."

"Now, jes' listen to de chile, makin' game o' his ole Mammy!" she exclaimed. "Livin' so high
wid all dem hifalutin' kings an' queens an' sech, an' den comin' back here an' makin' ten'
he wouldn' 'spise Mammy's ash-cakes!"

"I'm in dead earnest, Mammy. Indeed, indeed and double deed, I am. Kings and queens don't have
anything on their tables half as good as one of your ash-cakes, with a glass of cool butter-milk."

"Dat so, Honey?" she queried, with wonder. "Den you sho'ly shall have some, right away. Mammy
churn dis ve'y mornin', and dars a pitcher of buttermilk coolin' in de spring dis minute. You
des' make you'se'f at home an' I'll step in de kitchen an' cook you a ash-cake in a jiffy.
Billy, you pick me some nice, big cabbage leaves to bake it in whilst I'm mixin' de dough,
an' den go an' git de butter-milk an' a pat o' dat butter I made dis mornin' out'n de spring."

Edgar and Uncle Billy followed her into the kitchen where she deftly mixed the corn-meal dough,
shaped it in her hands into a thick round cake, which she wrapped in fresh cabbage leaves and
put down in the hot ashes on the hearth to bake. Meantime the following conversation between
Edgar and the old "Uncle:"

"Uncle Billy do you ever see ghosts now-adays?"

"To be sho', li'l' Marster, to be sho'. Sees 'em mos' any time. Saw one las' Sunday night."

"What was it like, Uncle Billy?"

"Like, Honey?--Like ole Mose, dat's what t'wus like. Does you 'member Mose whar useter drive
de hotel hack?"

"Yes, he's dead isn't he?"

"Yes, suh, daid as a do' nail. Dat's de cur'us part on it. He's daid an' was buried las' Sunday
ebenin'--buried deep. I know, 'ca'se I wus dar m'se'f. But dat night when I had gone to bed
an' wus gittin' off to meh fus' nap, I was woke up on a sudden by de noise uv a gre't stompin'
an' trompin' an snortin' in de road. I jump up an' look out de winder, an' I 'clar' 'fo' Gracious
if dar warn't Mose, natchel as life, horses an' hack an' all, tearin' by at a break-neck speed.
I'se seed many a ghos' an' a ha'nt in meh time, uv humans, but dat wus de fus' time I uver
heard tell uv a horse or a hack risin' f'um de daid. 'Twus skeery, sho'!"

Before Edgar had time for comment upon this remarkable apparition, Mammy set before him the
"snack" she had prepared of smoking ash-cake and fresh butter, on her best china plate--the
one with the gilt band--and placed at his right hand a goblet and a stone pitcher of cool butter-milk.
A luncheon, indeed, fit to be set before royalty, though it is not likely that any of them
ever had such an one offered them--poor things!

Edgar did full justice to the feast and was warm in his praises of it. Then, before taking
his leave, he placed in Mammy's hands a parcel containing gifts from the other side of the
water for her and Uncle Billy. There is nothing so dear to the heart of an old-time negro as
a present, and as the aged couple opened the package and drew out its treasures, their black
faces fairly shone with delight. Mammy could not forbear giving her "chile" a hug of gratitude
and freshly springing love, while Uncle Billy heartily declared,

"De Lord will sho'ly bless you, li'l' Marster, fur de Good Book do p'intedly say dat He do
love one chufful giver."

       *       *       *       *       *

To young Edgar's home-keeping playmates, he seemed to be the luckiest boy in the world, and
indeed, his brief existence had been up to this time, as fortunate as it appeared to them.
Even the beautiful sorrow of his mother's death had filled his life with poetry and brought
him sympathy and affection in abundant measure.

But bitterness was soon enough to enter his soul. His thoughts from the moment of his return
to Richmond, had frequently turned to the white church and churchyard on the hill--and to the
grave beside the wall. Thither he was determined to go as soon as he possibly could, but it
was too sacred a pilgrimage to be mentioned to anyone--it must be as secret as he could make
it; and so he must await an opportunity to slip off when he would be least apt to be missed.
He chose a sultry afternoon when Mr. and Mrs. Allan were taking a long drive into the country.
He waited until sunset--thinking there would be less probability of meeting anyone in the churchyard
after that hour than earlier--and set out, taking with him a cluster of white roses from the
summer-house in the garden.

It was nearly dusk when he reached the church and climbed the steps that led to the walled
graveyard, elevated above the street-level. Never had the spot looked so fair to him. The white
spire, piercing the blue sky, seemed almost to touch the slender new moon, with the evening
star glimmering by her side. The air was sweet with the breath of roses and honeysuckle, and
the graves were deeply, intensely green. Long he lay upon the one by the wall, near the head
of which he had placed his white roses--looking up at the silver spire and the silver star
and the moon's silver bow--so long that he forgot the passage of time, and when he reached
home and went in out of the night to the bright dining-room, blinking his great grey eyes to
accustom them to the lamp-light, supper was over.

The keen eyes of John Allan looked sternly upon him from under their fierce brows. The boy
saw at once that his foster-father was very angry.

"Where have you been?" he demanded, harshly.

"Nowhere," replied the boy.

"What have you been doing all this time?"

"Nothing," was the answer.

"Nowhere? Nothing? Don't nowhere and nothing me, Sir. Those are the replies--the lying replies--of
a boy who has been in mischief. If you had not been where you shouldn't have been, and doing
as you shouldn't have done, you would not be ashamed to tell. Now, Sir, tell me at once, where
you have been and what you have been doing?"

The boy grew pale, but made no reply, and in the eyes fixed on Mr. Allan's face was a provokingly
stubborn look. The man's wrath waxed warmer. His voice rose. In a tone of utter exasperation
he cried, "Tell me at once, I say, or you shall have the severest flogging you ever had in
your life!"

The boy grew paler still, and his eyes more stubborn. A scowl settled upon his brow and a look
of dogged determination about his mouth, but still he spoke not a word.

Mrs. Allan looked from one to the other of these two beings--husband and son--who made her
heart's world. The evening was warm and she wore a simple white dress with low neck and short
sleeves. Anxiety clouded her lovely face, yet never had she looked more girlishly sweet--more
appealing; but the silent plea in her beautiful, troubled eyes was lost on John Allan, much
as he loved her.

"Tell him, Eddie dear," she implored. "Don't be afraid. Speak up like a man!"

Still silence.

She walked over to the table where the boy sat before the untouched supper that had been saved
for him, and dropped upon one knee beside him. She placed her arm around him and drew him against
her gentle bosom--he suffering her, though not returning the caress.

"Tell me, Eddie, darling--tell Mother," she coaxed.

The grey eyes softened, the brow lifted. "There's nothing to tell, Mother," he gently replied.

Mr. Allan rose from his chair. "I'll give you five minutes in which to find something to tell,"
he exclaimed, shaking a trembling finger at the culprit; then stalked out of the room.

In his absence his wife fell upon the neck of the pale, frowning child, covering his face and
his curly head with kisses, and beseeching him with honeyed endearments, to be a good boy and
obey his father. But the little figure seemed to have turned to stone in her arms. In less
than the five minutes Mr. Allan was back in the room, trimming a long switch cut from one of
the trees in the garden as he came.

"Are you ready to tell me the truth?" he demanded.

No answer.

Still trimming the switch, he approached the boy. Frances Allan trembled. Rising from the child's
side, she clasped her husband's arm in both her hands.

"Don't, John! Don't, please, John dear. I can't stand it," she breathed. He put her aside, firmly.

"Don't be silly, Frances. You are interfering with my duty. Can't you see that I must teach
the boy to make you a better return for your kindness than lying to hide his mischief?"

"But suppose that he is telling the truth, John, and that he has been doing nothing worse than
wandering about the streets? You know the way he has always had of roaming about by himself,
at times."

"And do you think roaming about the streets at this time of night proper employment for a boy
of eleven? Would you have him grow up into a vagabond? A boy dependent upon the bounty of strangers
can ill afford to cultivate such idle habits!"

The boy's already large and dark pupils dilated and darkened until his eyes looked like black,
storm-swept pools. His already white face grew livid. He drew back as if he had been struck
and fixed upon his foster-father a gaze in which every spark of affection was, for the moment,
dead. He had been humiliated by the threat of a flogging, but the prospect of the hardest stroke
his body might receive was as nothing to him now. His sensitive soul had been smitten a blow
the smart of which he would carry with him to his last day. "Dependent upon the bounty of strangers,"--of
strangers!

Up to this time he had been the darling little son of an over-fond mother, and though his foster-father
had been at times, stern and unsympathetic with him, no hint had ever before dropped from him
to indicate that the child was not as much his own as the sons of other fathers were their
own--that he was not as much entitled to the good things of life which were heaped upon him
without the asking as an own son would have been. His comforts--his pleasures had been so easily,
so plentifully bestowed that the little dreamer had never before awaked to a realization of
a difference between his relation with his parents and the relation of other children with
theirs. Brought face to face with this hard, cold fact for the first time, and so suddenly,
he was for the moment stunned by it. He felt that a flood of deep waters in which he was floundering
helplessly was overwhelming him.

A deep silence had followed the last words of Mr. Allan, who continued to trim the switch,
while his wife, sinking into a chair, bowed her face in her arms, folded upon the table, and
began to cry softly. The gentle sounds of her weeping seemed but further to infuriate her husband.

"Come with me," he commanded, placing his hand on the shoulder of the child, who unresistingly
suffered himself to be pushed along toward his foster-father's room. Frances Allan broke into
wild sobbing and placed her fingers against her ears that she might not hear the screams of
her pet. But there were no screams. Silently, and with an air of dignity it was marvellous
so small a figure could command, the beautiful boy received the blows. When one's soul has
been hurt, what matters mere physical pain? When both the strength and the passion of Mr. Allan
had been somewhat spent, he ceased laying on blows and asked in a calmed voice,

"Are you ready to tell me the truth now?"

In one moment of time the child lived over again the beautiful hour at his mother's grave.
He saw again the silver spire and the silver half-moon and the silver star--smelled the blended
odors of honeysuckle and rose, made sweeter, by the gathering dews, and felt the coolness and
freshness of the long green grass that covered the grave. Who knew but that deep down under
the sweet grass she had been conscious he was there--had felt his heart beat and heard his
loving whispers as of old, and loved him still, and understood, though she would see him nevermore?
Share the secret of that holy hour with anyone--of all people, with this wrathful, blind, unsympathizing
man who had just confessed himself a stranger to him? Never!

A faint smile, full of peace, settled upon his poet's face, but he answered never a word.

There was a stir at the door. John Allan looked toward it. His wife stood there drying her
eyes. He turned to the boy again.

"Go with your mother and get your supper," he commanded.

"I don't want it," was the reply.

"Well, go to bed then, and tomorrow afternoon you are to spend in your own room, where I hope
meditation upon your idle ways may bring you to something like repentance."

The boy paused half-way to the door. "Tomorrow is the day I'm going swimming with the boys.
You promised that I might go."

"Well, I take back the promise, that's all."

"Don't you think you've punished him enough for this time, John?" timidly asked his wife.

"No boy is ever punished enough until he is conquered," was the reply. "And Edgar is far from
that!"

Mrs. Allan, with her arm about the little culprit's shoulder went with him to his room. How
she wished that he would let her cuddle him in her lap and sing to him and tell him stories
and then hear him his prayers at her knee and tuck him in bed as in the old days before he
went to boarding-school! Her heart ached for him, though she had no notion of the bitterness,
the rebellion, that were rankling in his. As she kissed him goodnight she whispered,

"You shall have your swim, in the river, tomorrow, Eddie darling; I'll see that you do."

"Don't you ask him to let me do anything," he protested, passionately. "I'm going without asking
him. He disowned me for a son, I'll disown him for a father!"

He loved her but he was glad when the door closed behind her so that he could think it all
out for himself in the dark--the dear dark that he had always loved so well and that was now
as balm to his bruised spirit. The worst of it was that he could not disown John Allan as a
father. He had to confess to himself with renewed bitterness that he was indeed, and by no
fault of his own--a helpless dependent upon the charity of this man who had, in taunting him
with the fact, wounded him so grievously. His impulse was to run away--but where could he go?
Though his small purse held at that moment a generous amount of spending money for a boy "going
on twelve," it would be a mere nothing toward taking him anywhere. It would not afford him
shelter and food for a day, and he knew it--it would not take him to the only place where he
knew he had kindred--Baltimore. And what if he could get as far as Baltimore, would he care
to go there? To assert his independence of the charity of John Allan only to throw himself
upon the charity of relatives who had never noticed him--whom he hated because they had never
forgiven his father for marrying the angel mother around whose memory his fondest dreams clung?

No, he could not disown Mr. Allan--not yet; but the good things of life received from his hands
had henceforth lost their flavor and would be like Dead Sea fruit upon his lips. Hitherto,
though he knew, of course, that he was not the Allans' own child, he had never once been made
to feel that he was any the less entitled to their bounty. They had adopted him of their own
free will to fill the empty arms of a woman with a mother's heart who had never been a mother,
and that woman had lavished upon him almost more than a mother's love--certainly more than
a prudent mother's indulgence. He had been the most spoiled and petted child of his circle,
and the bounty had been heaped upon him in a manner that made him feel--child though he was--the
joy that the giving brought the giver, and therefore no burden of obligation upon himself in
receiving. If Mr. Allan had been strict to a point of harshness with him, at times, Mr. Allan
was a born disciplinarian--it seemed natural for him to be stern and unsympathetic and those
who knew him best took his stiffness and hardness with many grains of allowance, remembering
his upright life and his open-handed charities. He had administered punishment upon the little
lad when he was naughty in the years before he went away to school, and the little lad had
taken his medicine philosophically like other naughty boys--had cried lustily, then dried his
eyes and forgotten all about it in the pleasure which the goodies and petting he always had
from his pretty, tender-hearted foster-mother at such times gave him. But this was different.
He was a big lad now--very big and old, he felt, far too big to be flogged; quite big enough
to visit his mother's grave, if he chose, without having to talk about it. And he had not only
been flogged because he would not reveal his sacred, sweet secret, but had had his dependence
upon charity thrown up at him!

Henceforth, he felt, his life would be a lonely one, for he now knew that he was different
from other boys, all of whom (in his acquaintance) had fathers to whose bounty they had a right--the
right of sonship. Yes, he was a very big boy (he told himself) and he had not cried when he
was flogged, but under the cover of the kindly dark, hot tears of indignation, hurt pride and
pity for his own loneliness--his singularity--made all his pillow wet.

Comfort came to him from an unexpected source. The door of his room had been closed, but not
latched. It was now pushed open by "Comrade," his old spaniel, who made straight for his side,
first pushing his nose against his face and then leaping upon the bed and nestling down close
to him, with a sigh of satisfaction. The desolate boy welcomed this dumb, affectionate companionship.
The feel of the warm, soft body, and the thought of the velvety brown eyes which he could not
see in the dark, but knew were fixed upon him with their intense, loving gaze, were soothing
to his overwrought nerves. Here was something whose love could be counted upon--something as
dependent upon him as he was upon Mr. Allan; yet what a joy he found in the very dependence
of this devoted, soft-eyed creature! Never would he taunt Comrade with his dependence upon charity.

"No;" he said, his hands deep in the silky coat, "I would not insult a dog as he has insulted
me! Never mind, Comrade, old fellow, we'll have our swim in the river tomorrow, and he may
flog me again if he likes."

       *       *       *       *       *

But he was not flogged the next day. An important business engagement occupied Mr. Allan the
whole afternoon, and when he came in late, tired and pre-occupied, he found Edgar fresh and
glowing from his exercise in the river, the curls still damp upon his forehead, quietly eating
his supper with his mother. She knew, but tender creature that she was, she was prepared to
do anything short of fibbing to shield her pet from another out-burst. But John Allan, still
absorbed in business cares, hardly looked toward the boy, and asked not a question.

CHAPTER VI.

The home of the Allans was never quite the same to Edgar Poe after that night. A wall had been
raised between him and his foster-father that would never be scaled. He was still indulged
in a generous amount of pocket money which he invariably proceeded to get rid of as fast as
he could--lavishing it upon the enjoyment of his friends as freely as it had been lavished
upon him. He had plenty of pets and toys, went to dancing school, in which his natural love
of dancing made him delight, and was given stiff but merry little parties, at which old Cy,
the black fiddler played and called the figures, and the little host and his friends conformed
to the strict, ceremonious etiquette observed by the children as well as the grown people of
the day.

For these indulgences Frances Allan was chiefly responsible. The one weak spot in the armor
of austerity in which John Allan clothed himself was his love for his wife, and it was often
against what he felt to be his better judgment that he acquiesced in her system of child-spoiling.
He felt a solemn responsibility toward the boy, and he did his duty by him, as he saw it, faithfully.
It was not in the least his fault that he did not see that under the broad white brow and sunny
ringlets was a brain in which, like the sky in a dew-drop, a whole world was reflected, with
ever changing pageantry, and that the abstracted expression in the boy's eyes that he thought
could only mean that he was "hatching mischief," really indicated that the creative faculty
in budding genius was awake and at work.

For a child Edgar's age to be making trials at writing poetry Mr. Allan regarded as sheer idleness,
to be promptly suppressed. Indeed, when he discovered that the boy had been guilty of such
foolishness, he emphatically ordered him not to repeat it. To counteract the effects of his
wife's spoiling of her adopted son, he felt it his duty to place all manner of restrictions
upon his liberty, which the freedom-loving boy, with the connivance of his mother and the negro
servants who adored him, disregarded whenever it was possible. Though bathing in the river
was (except upon rare occasions) prohibited, Edgar became before summer was over, the most
expert swimmer and diver of his years in town, and many an afternoon when Mr. Allan supposed
that he was in his room, to which he had been ordered for the purpose of disciplining his will
and character, or for punishment, he was far beyond the city's limits roaming the woods, the
fields, or the river-banks--joyously, and without a prick of conscience (for all his disobedience)
feeding his growing soul upon the beauties of tree, and sky, and cliff, and water-fall.

And so, in spite of the melancholy moods in which he was occasionally plunged by the bitterness
which had found lodgment in his breast, the summer was upon the whole a happy one to the boy.
He was so young and the world was so beautiful! He could not remember always to be unhappy.
Edgar Goodfellow, as well as Edgar the Dreamer, revelled in the world of Out-of-Door. To the
one all manner of muscular sport and exercise was as the breath of his nostrils; to the other,
whose favorite stories were ancient myths and fairy-tales, all natural phenomena possessed
vivid personality. He loved to trace pictures in the clouds. In the rustling of corn or the
stirring of leaves in the trees, or in the sound of running waters he heard voices which spoke
to him of delightsome things, bringing to his full, grey eyes, as he hearkened, a soft, romantic
look, and touching his lips and his cheeks with a radiant spirituality.

The cottage, on Clay Street, to which the Allans had removed soon after their return from England,
was in a quiet part of the town. The window of Edgar's own, quaint little room in the dormer
roof, with its shelving walls, gave him a fair view of the sky, and brought him sweet airs
wafted across the garden of old-fashioned flowers below. Here, such hours as he spent from
choice or by command were not lonely, for, sitting by the little window, many a story or poem
was thought out; or buried in some favorite book his thoughts would be borne away as if on
wings to a world where imagination was king.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the fall he was entered at Mr. Clarke's school. The school-room, with its white-washed walls
and the sun pouring in, unrestricted, through the commonplace, big, bare windows, was very
different from the great, gloomy Gothic room at old Stoke-Newington--so full of mystery and
suggestion--but Edgar found it a pleasant place in which to be upon that cool fresh morning
in late September, when he made its acquaintance. He felt full of mental activity and ready
to go to work with a will upon his Latin, his French and his mathematics. Since his return
from England, in June, he had become acquainted with most of the boys who were to be his school-fellows,
and he took at once to the school-master, Professor Clarke, of Trinity College, Dublin--a middle-aged
bachelor of Irish birth, an accomplished gentleman and a very human creature, with a big heart,
a high ideal of what boys might be and abundant tolerance of what they generally were. If he
had a quick temper, he had also a quick wit, and a quick appreciation of talent and sympathy
with timorous aspirations.

It had been Master Clarke's suggestion that his new pupil, who was known as Edgar Allan, should
put his own name upon the school register. Edgar, looking questioningly up into Mr. Allan's
face, was glad to read approval there, and with a thrill of pride he wrote upon the book, in
the small, clear hand that had become characteristic of him:

"Edgar Allan Poe."

He was proud of his name and proud of his father, of whom he remembered nothing, but in whose
veins, he knew, had run patriot blood, and who had had the independence to risk all for love
of the beautiful mother of worshipped memory. It was with straightened shoulders and a high
head that he took the seat assigned him at the clumsy desk, in the bare, ugly room of the school
in which he was to be known for the first time as Edgar Poe. He felt that in coming into his
own name he had come into a proud heritage.

Mr. Clarke's Irish heart warmed toward him. He divined in the big-browed, big-eyed boy a unique
and gifted personality and proceeded with the uttermost tact to do his best toward the cultivation
of his talents. The result was that Edgar not only acquitted himself brilliantly in his studies,
but progressed well in his verse-making, which though, since Mr. Allan's prohibition, it had
been kept secret in his home, was freely acknowledged to teacher and school-fellows.

By his class-mates he was deemed a wonder. He was so easily first among them in everything--in
the simple athletics with which they were familiar, as well as in studies--and his talent for
rhyming and drawing seemed to set him upon a sort of pedestal.

In the first blush of triumph these little successes gave him, young Edgar's head was in a
fair way to be turned. He saw himself (in fancy) the leader, the popular favorite of the whole
school. Indeed, he flattered himself he had leaped at a single bound to this position at the
moment, almost, of his entrance. But he soon began to see that he was mistaken. While he was
conscious of the unconcealed admiration of most, and the ill-concealed envy of a few of the
boys, of his mental and physical abilities, he began, as time went on, to suspect--then to
be sure--that for some reason that baffled all his ingenuity to fathom, he was not accorded
the position in the school that was the natural reward for superiority of endowment and performance.
This place was filled instead by Nat Howard, a boy who, he told himself, he was without the
slightest vanity bound to see was distinctly second to him in every way.

He noticed that whatever Nat proposed was invariably done, so that he was forced either to
follow where he should have led, or be left out of everything. Often when he joined the boys
listening with interest to Nat's heavy jokes and talk, a silence would fall upon the company,
which in a short while would break up--the boys going off in twos and threes, leaving him to
his own society or that of a small minority composed of two or three boys for the most part
younger than himself, who in spite of the popular taste for Nat, preferred him and were captivated
by his clever accomplishments.

That there was some reason why he was thus shut out from personal intimacy by school-mates
who acknowledged and admired his powers he felt sure, and he was determined to ferrit it out.
In the meantime his heart, always peculiarly responsive to affection, answered with warmth
to the devotion of the small coterie who were independent enough to swear fealty to him. He
helped them with their lessons, initiated them into the mysteries of boxing and other manly
exercises, went swimming and gunning with them, and occasionally delighted them by showing
them his poems and the little sketches with which he sometimes illustrated his manuscript,
in the making.

It must be confessed that there was little in these compositions to set the world afire. They
would only be counted remarkable as the work of a school-boy in his early teens, and were practice
work--nothing more. They served their purpose, then sank into the oblivion which was their
meet destiny. But to Jack Preston, Dick Ambler, Rob Stanard and Rob Sully, and one or two others,
they were master-pieces.

These boys, as well as Edgar, were giving serious attention to their linen, the care of their
hands, and the precise parting of their hair, just then; and a close observer might often have
detected them in the act of furtively feeling their upper lips with anxious forefinger in the
vain hope of discovering the appearance--if ever so slight--of a downy growth thereupon. For
they, as well as he, were making sheep's eyes at those wonderful visions in golden locks and
jetty locks, with brown eyes and blue eyes, with fluttering ribbons and snowy pinafores, known
as "Miss Jane Mackenzie's girls," who were the inspiration of most of their poet-chum's invocations
of the muse. The little hymns in praise of the charms of these girls were generally adorned
with pen or pencil sketches of the fair charmers themselves.

Poor Miss Jane had a sad time of it. As the accomplished principal of a choice Young Ladies
Boarding and Day School, she enjoyed an enviable position in the politest society in town.
Parents of young ladies under her care congratulated themselves alike upon her strict rule
and her learning, her refinement of manners and conversation and her distinguished appearance.
She was tall and stately and in her decorous garb of black silk that could have "stood alone,"
and an elegant cap of "real" lace with lavender ribbons softening the precise waves of her
iron-grey hair, she made a most impressive figure--one that would have inspired with profound
respect any male creature living saving that incorrigible non-respecter of persons and personages,
especially of lady principals--the Boy. For the "forming" of young ladies, Miss Jane had a
positive forte, but the genus boy was an unknown quantity to her, and worse--he was a positive
terror. For one of them to invade the sacred precincts of her school, or its grounds, seemed
to her maiden soul rank sacrilege; to scale her garden wall after dark for the purpose of attaching
a letter to a string let down from a window to receive it, was nothing short of criminal. For
one of her girls to receive offerings of candy and original poetry--love poetry--from one of
these terrible creatures; such an offence was unspeakably shocking.

Yet discovery of such offences happened often enough to give her repeated shocks, and to confirm
her in her belief in the total depravity, the hopeless wickedness of all boys--especially of
John Allan's adopted son.

In spite of her vigilance, Edgar Poe found the means to outwit her, and to transmit his effusions,
without difficulty, to her fair charges, who with tresses primly parted and braided and meek
eyes bent in evident absorption upon their books, were the very pictures of docile obedience,
and bore in their outward looks no hint of the guilty consciences that should, by rights, have
been destroying their peace.

Miss Jane was the sister of Mr. Mackenzie who had adopted little Rosalie Poe. Rosalie was,
at Miss Jane's invitation, a pupil in the school, but (ungrateful girl that she was) she became,
at the suggestion of her handsome and charming brother Edgar, whom she adored, the willing
messenger of Dan Cupid, and furthered much secret and sentimental correspondence between the
innocent-seeming girls and the young scamps who admired them.

In these fascinating flights into the realms of flirtation, as in other things, Edgar's friends
acknowledged his superiority--his romantic personal beauty and his gift for rhyming giving
him a decided advantage over them all; but they acknowledged it without jealousy, for there
was much of hero worship in their attitude toward him, and they were not only perfectly contented
for him to be first in every way but it would have disappointed them for him not to be. The
captivating charm of his presence, in his gay moods, made it unalloyed happiness for them to
be with him. They were always ready to follow him as far as he led in daring adventure--ready
to fetch and carry for him and glowing with pride at the least notice from him.

Some boys would have taken advantage of this state of things, but not so Edgar Goodfellow.
He, for his part, was always ready to contribute to their pleasure, and fairly sunned himself
in the unstinting love and praise of these boys who admired, while but half divining his gifts.
Their games had twice the zest when Eddie played with them--he threw himself into the sport
with such heartfelt zeal that they were inspired to do their best. Many a ramble in the woods
and fields around Richmond he took with them, telling them the most wonderful stories as he
went along; but sometimes, quite suddenly, during these outings, Edgar Goodfellow would give
place to Edgar the Dreamer and they would wonderingly realize that his thoughts were off to
a world where none of them could follow--none of them unless it were Rob Sully, who was himself
something of a dreamer, and could draw as well as Edgar.

The transformation would be respected. His companions would look at him with something akin
to awe in their eyes and tell each other in low tones not to disturb Eddie, he was "making
poetry," and confine their chatter to themselves, holding rather aloof from the young poet,
who wandered on with the abstracted gaze of one walking in sleep--with them, but not of them.

There were other, less frequent, times when his mood was as much respected, when added to the
awe there was somewhat of distress in their attitude toward him. At these times he was not
only abstracted, but a deep gloom would seem to have settled upon his spirit. Without apparent
reason, melancholy claimed him, and though he was still gentle and courteous, they had a nameless
sort of fear of him--he was so unlike other boys and it seemed such a strange thing to be unhappy
about nothing. It was positively uncanny.

At these times they did not even try to be with him. They knew that he could wrestle with what
he called his "blue devils" more successfully alone. A restlessness generally accompanied the
mood, and he would wander off by himself to the churchyard, the river, or the woods; or spend
whole long, golden afternoons shut up in his room, poring over some quaint old tale, or writing
furiously upon a composition of his own. When he looked at the boys, he did not seem to see
them, but would gaze beyond them--the pupils of his full, soft, grey eyes darkening and dilating
as if they were held by some weird vision invisible to all eyes save his own; and indeed the
belief was general among his friends that he was endowed with the power of seeing visions.
This impression had been made even upon his old "Mammy," when he was a mite of a lad. Many
a time, when he turned that abstracted gaze upon her, she had said to him,

"What dat you lookin' at now, Honey? You is bawn to see evil sho'!"

       *       *       *       *       *

And now a glimpse of Edgar Goodfellow--the normal Edgar, whom his chums saw oftenest and loved
best, because they knew him best and understood him best.

It was a late Autumn Saturday--one of the Saturdays sent from Heaven for the delight of school-children--bracing,
but not cold; and brilliant. Little Robert Sully looked pensively out of the window thinking
what a fine day it would be for a country tramp, if only he were like other boys and could
take them. But Rob was of frail build and constitution and could never stand much exertion.
In his eyes was the expression of settled wistfulness that frequent disappointment will bring
to the eyes of a delicate child; in the droop of his mouth there was a touch of bitterness,
for he was thinking that not only did his weak body make it impossible for him to keep up with
the boys, but that it was no doubt, a relief to the boys to leave him behind--that when he
could be with them he was perhaps a drag on their pleasure. No doubt they would make a long
day of it, this bright, bracing Saturday, for the persimmons and the fox-grapes were ripe and
the chinquapin and chestnut burrs were opening. Tears of self-pity sprang to his eyes, but
they were quickly dashed away as he heard his name called and saw his beloved Eddie, flushed
and glowing with anticipated pleasure, at the gate.

"Come along, Rob," he was calling. "We are going to the Hermitage woods for chinquapins, and
you must come too. Uncle Billy is going for a load of pine-tags, and we can ride in his wagon,
so it won't tire you."

The other boys were waiting at the corner, all at the highest pitch of mirth, for they saw
that their idol, Eddie, was in one of his happiest moods, which would mean a morning of unbounded
fun to them. And the ride with old Uncle Billy who, with black and shiny face, beaming upon
them in an excess of kindliness, hair like a full-blown cotton-boll, and quaint talk, was an
unfailing source of delight to them!

The Saturday freedom was in their blood. Off and away they went in the jolly, rumbling wagon,
past houses and gardens, and fields and into the enchanting, autumn-colored woods, where "Bob
Whites" were calling to each other and nuts were dropping in the rustling leaves or waiting
to be shaken from their open burrs.

As they jolted along, the steady stream of conversation between Edgar and Uncle Billy was as
good as a play to the rest of the boys--Edgar, with grave, courteous manner, discoursing of
"cunjurs" and "ha'nts" with as real an air of belief as that of the old man himself.

CHAPTER VII.

The allegiance of his little band of boon companions was all the sweeter to the young poet
because he realized more and more fully as the years of his school-days passed that for some
reason unknown to himself he was systematically, and plainly with intention, denied intimacy
with Nat Howard and his followers--snubbed. As has been said, they did not hesitate to acknowledge
his success in all sorts of mental and physical trials of skill, but in a formal, impersonal
way. There was never the least familiarity in their intercourse with him. This, naturally,
produced in him a reserve in his manner toward them that they unreasonably attributed to "airs."
Their coldness wounded and chilled the sensitive boy as much as the love of his devoted adherents
warmed him.

It was not until near the end of his third session in the school that the riddle was, quite
suddenly, solved. Edgar Poe was now in his fifteenth year. One perfect May day, when the song
of birds, the odors of flowers, the whisper of soft breezes and the languor of mellow sunshine
outside of the open school windows were wooing all poetic souls to come out and live, and let
musty, dry books go to the deuce, little Rob Sully found it impossible to fix his mind upon
his Latin. As for Edgar's mind, it was plain from his expression that it was far afield; but
then Edgar had the power of knowing his lessons intuitively, almost. Rob only "got" his by
faithful plodding. When their respective classes were called, Edgar recited brilliantly, while
Rob seemed like one befuddled and, making a dismal failure, was bidden to stay in and study
at recess. A look of utter woe settled upon his thin, pallid face, which lifted as, impelled
to look toward Edgar's desk, he caught his friend's eyes fixed upon him with their charming
smile. He knew well what the eyes were saying:

"Don't worry, Rob, I'll stay in and help you."

And stay in the owner of the eyes did, patiently going over and over the lesson with the confused
boy until the hard parts were made easy. Finally, when he saw that Rob had mastered it, Edgar
walked out into the yard for the few minutes left of recess. The boys were all drawn up in
a group a little way from the house and were being harangued by his rival, Nat Howard. His
chums, Rob Stanard, Dick Ambler and Jack Preston, were standing together a few feet apart from
the rest. Their faces were very red and the haranguing seemed to be addressed directly to them.
Edgar stopped where he was, wondering what it was all about, but shy of joining a crowd over
which Nat was presiding.

The speaker's voice rose to a higher key.

"I'll tell you, boys," he was saying, "if you persist in intimacy with this fellow, you needn't
expect to be in with me and my crowd."

"We don't want you and your crowd," was the response. "He's worth all of you rolled into one."

Edgar's heart stood still. "Was Nat Howard talking about him?"

The voice went on: "I grant you the fellow's smart enough and game enough, but he's not in
our class, and I, for one, won't associate with him intimately."

"His family's one of the oldest and most honorable in the country," said Robert Stanard. "I've
heard my father say so."

"Yes, but his father must have been a black sheep to run away with a common actress--"

The harangue was brought to an abrupt end. The enraged Edgar had sprung forward and, with a
blow in the face, struck Nat Howard down. Nat's friends were lifting him up and wiping the
blood from his face and dusting his clothing, while Edgar's own friends gathered around him
as if to restrain him from repeating the attack. He shook them off, gazing with contempt upon
his limp and half-stunned adversary.

"I'll not hit him again until he repeats his offence," he assured the boys, "but I want him
and all other cowardly dogs to know what's waiting for them when they insult the memory of
my father and mother. Yes! my mother was an actress! God gave her the gifts to make her one
and she had the pluck to use them to earn bread for herself and for her children. Yes! she
was an actress! She had the lovely face and form, the high intelligence and the poetic soul
for the making of a perfect woman or for the interpreter of genius--for the personification
of a Juliet, a Rosalind or a Cordelia. Yes! she was an actress! And I'm proud of it as surely
as I'm proud she's an angel in Heaven! And I'm proud that my father--the son of a proud family--had
the spirit, for her sweet sake, to fly in the face of convention, to count family, fortune
and all well lost to become her husband, and to adopt her profession; to learn of her, in order
that he might be always at her side to protect her and to live in the light of her presence.
If I had choice of all the surnames and of all the lineage in the world, I would still choose
the name of Poe, and to be the son of David and Elizabeth Poe, players!"

The boys were silent. The school bell was ringing and Edgar Poe, still pale and trembling with
passion, turned on his heel and strode, with head up, in the direction of the door. Rob Stanard
and Rob Sully walked one on each side of him, while Dick Ambler and Jack Preston and several
others among his adherents, followed close. A little way behind the group came the other boys,
their still half-dazed leader in their midst. Good Mr. Burke (who had succeeded Mr. Clarke
as school-master) guessed as they came in and took their seats that there had been an altercation
of some kind, and that his two brag scholars had been prominent in it; but he was wise in his
generation and allowed the boys to settle their own differences without asking any questions
unless he were appealed to, when his sympathy and interest were found to be theirs to count upon.

The afternoon session was unsatisfactory, but the master was in an indulgent mood and apparently
did not notice what each boy felt--a confusion and abstraction. There was a palpable sense
of relief when the closing hour came.

       *       *       *       *       *

At dinner that day Edgar was silent and evidently under a cloud, and scarcely touched his food.
Frances Allan looked toward him anxiously and her husband suspiciously. When his lack of appetite
was remarked upon, he, truthfully enough, pleaded headache. Mrs. Allan was all sympathy at once.

"You study too hard, dear," she said. "You may have a holiday tomorrow if you like, and go
and spend the day in the country with Rosalie and the Mackenzies."

"No, no," replied the boy. "I'll just stay quiet, in my room, this evening. I'll be all right
by tomorrow."

"What have you been eating?" demanded John Allan, gruffly.

"Nothing, since breakfast, Sir," was the reply.

"Headaches are for nervous women. When a healthy boy complains of one, and declines dinner,
it generally means that he has been robbing somebody's strawberry patch or up a cherry-tree,
stuffing half-ripe fruit," he said in the acid, suspicious tone that the boy knew. It was beyond
John Allan's powers to imagine any but physical causes for a boy's ailments.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not until the door of his own little bed-room was closed behind him did Edgar Poe even try
to collect his thoughts. Then he sat down at his window and looked out over the fragrant garden
to the quiet sky, contemplation of which had so often soothed his spirit, and tried to readjust
the inner world he lived in, in accordance with the discovery he had just made. A first such
readjustment his world had experienced three years before, when Mr. Allan had taunted him with
his dependence upon charity. Before that time the world, as he knew it, had held only love
and beauty--sorrow, as he had seen it, being but a solemn and poetic form of beauty. The change
in such a world made by the discovery that his being an adopted son set him apart in a class
different from other boys--a class unlovely and loveless--had been great, had stolen much of
the joy from living; but he was very young then, and the joy of mere living and breathing was
strong in his blood, and he had gradually become accustomed--hardened, if you will--to the
idea of his dependence upon charity.

But here was a change far more terrible, and coming at a time when he was old enough to feel
it far more keenly. He was indeed, in a class by himself--he was held in contempt because of
what his angel mother had been! His holy of holies had been profaned, the sacred fire that
warmed his inner life had been spat upon. It seemed he had been from the beginning despised,
though he had not dreamed it, for that which he held most dear--of which he was most proud.
The little, aristocratic, puffed-up world he lived in would doubtless always despise him; but
that was because of its narrowness and ignorance for which he, in turn, would despise it. With
the whimsical, half-belief he had always had that the dead remain conscious through their long
sleep, he wondered if his beautiful young mother, with the roses on her hair, down under the
green earth, was not aware of the love and loyalty of her boy and if her spirit soaring the
highest heavens, would not aid him in carrying out the resolution which in the bitterness of
his soul, he then and there made--the resolution to bring this mean little, puffed up world
to do honor to his name--to her name, of which he was prouder in this hour when others would
trample it in the dust than he had ever been before.

Young boy though he was, he was conscious of his God-given endowments. He felt that the divine
fire of poetic feeling in his breast was an immortal thing. Up to this time, his singing had
been as the singing of a wood-bird--an impulse, a necessity to express the thoughts and feelings
of his heart. He had never looked far enough ahead to consider whether he should or should
not publish his work; but now ambition awoke--full-grown at its birth--and set him afire. From
those parents whose memory had been insulted he had received (God willing it) the precious
heritage of brilliant intellect. He would put the work of this intellect--his stories and his
poems--into books. He would give them to the wide world. He would win recognition for the name
of Poe.

He drew from within his coat the miniature of his mother--her dying gift. He gazed upon it
long and tenderly, and with it still exposed to view brought from his desk the little packet
of yellowed letters in their faded blue ribbon. He knew them by heart, but he read them--each
one--over again, as carefully as if it had been the first time. They were not many and those
not long; but ah, they were sweet!--those tender, quaint love-letters that had passed between
his parents in their brief courtship and married life. His father's so manly so strong--like
the letters of a soldier. His mother's so modest, so tender. They did not stir his pulses so
wildly now as they did upon his first reading of them, when a little lad at old Stoke-Newington--but
they were no less beautiful to him now than then. The sentences made him think of the dainty,
sweet aroma of pressed roses.

He tied the packet up again and kissed letters and picture, as if to seal the promise he was
making them, then restored them to their hiding-places. With the bitter knowledge that had
come to him, he felt that years had passed over him--that he would never be young again--this
boy of fourteen!

He raised his deep, pensive eyes once more to the quiet sky and his spirit cried to Heaven
to grant him power to accomplish this task he had set himself: to lift the loved name of his
parents from the dust where it lay, and to set it high in the temple of fame, wreathed with
immortal myrtle.

His resolution gave to his poetic face and his slender figure an air of mastery, as though
some new, high quality had been born within him.

CHAPTER VIII.

In the days that followed, Edgar's friends found him unusually silent, yet not morose. Serenity
sat on his broad, thoughtful brow and in his great, soft eyes. Nat Howard and his chums gave
him the cold shoulder and wore, in his presence, the air of offended dignity which the small-minded
are apt to assume when conscious of being in the wrong or of having committed an injury which
the victim has received with credit and the offender has not forgiven. It is so much easier
to grant pardon for an injury received than for one given!

Edgar's own friends were more emphatic in their devotion to him than ever--racking their young
brains for ways in which to show their loyalty and frequently looking into his face with the
expression of soft adoration and trust one sees in the eyes of a faithful dog. Edgar was touched
and gratified, and his sweet, spontaneous smile often rewarded their efforts; but his face
would soon become grave again and the boys were aware that the mind of their gifted friend
was busy with thoughts in which they had no part. This gave them an impression of distance
between them and him. He all of a sudden, seemed to have become remote, as though a chasm,
by what power they knew not, had opened between them--making their love for him as "the desire
of the moth for the star." They knew that he was more often than ever before working upon his
poetical and other compositions, but these were seldom shown, or even mentioned, to them.

Each boy in his own way sought to bridge the gulf that separated them from their idol. Robert
Sully missed his Latin lesson on purpose in the hope that Eddie would stay in and help him.
And Eddie did, but wore that same detached air in which there was no intimacy or comfort. When
the lesson was learned Edgar took a slate from the desk before them, rubbed off the problem
that was upon it, and quickly wrote down a little poem of several stanzas. He held it out,
with a smile, to Rob, telling him that while teaching him his lesson he had been practicing
"dividing his mind," and that while one part of his brain had been putting English into Latin
the other part had composed the verses on the slate.

The dumfounded Rob read the verses aloud, but before he could express his amazement Edgar had
taken the slate from him and, with one swipe of the damp spunge, obliterated the rhymes.

"Write them on paper for me, please," plead Robert.

The brilliant smile of the boy-poet flashed upon him. "Oh, they were not worth keeping," said
he, indifferently. "They were merely an exercise." And picking up his books and hat, he walked
out of the door, whistling in clear, high, plaintive notes one of the melodies of his favorite
Tom Moore.

The boy left behind looked after him with a troubled heart and misty eyes. This wonderful friend
of his was as kind as ever, yet he seemed changed. It was clear that he had "something on his
mind."

"Will you go swimming with me this evening, Eddie?" said Dick Ambler one day when school was out.

"With all the pleasure in life," was the hearty response.

Dick went home to his dinner with a singing heart. If anything could bring Edgar down from
the clouds to his own level, surely it would be bathing together. He certainly could not make
poetry while diving and swimming, naked, in the racing and tumbling falls of James River. A
merry battle with those energetic waters kept a fellow's wits as well as his muscles fully
occupied.

But even this attempt was a failure. If Edgar made any poetry while in the water he did not
mention it; but he was absent-minded and unsociable all the way to the river and back--sky-gazing
for curious cloud-forms, listening for bird-notes and hunting wild-flowers, and talking almost
none at all.

In the water he seemed to wake up, and never dived with more grace, or daring; but no sooner
had they started on the way home than he was off with his dreams again.

Rob Stanard was more successful in his attempts to interest his friend. In spite of their intimacy
at school and on the playground Edgar had up to this time never visited the Stanard home. Rob
had enlisted his mother's sympathy in the orphan boy and she had suggested that he should invite
Edgar home with him some day. It now occurred to Rob that this would be a good time to do so,
and knowing his friend's fondness for dumb animals, he offered his pets as an attraction--asking
him to come and see his pigeons and rabbits. His invitation was accepted with alacrity.

Edgar had seen Rob's mother, but only at a distance. He knew her reputation as one of the town
beauties, but lovely women were not rare in Richmond, and, beauty-worshipper though he was,
he had never had any especial curiosity in regard to Mrs. Stanard. He was altogether unprepared
for the vision that broke upon him.

Instead of going through the house, Rob had piloted him by way of a side gate, directly into
the walled garden, sweet and gay with roses, lilies and other flowers of early June.

Mrs. Stanard, who took almost as much pleasure in her children's pets as they did, was standing
near a clump of arbor-vitae, holding in her hands a "willow-ware" plate from which the pigeons
were feeding. She was at this time, though the mother of Edgar's twelve-year-old chum, not
thirty years of age, and her pensive beauty was in its fullest flower. Against the sombre background
the arbor-vitae made, her slight figure, clad in soft, clinging white, seemed airy and sylphlike.
Her dark, curling hair, girlishly bound with a ribbon snood, and her large brown eyes, were
in striking contrast to her complexion, which was pale, with the radiant and warm palor of
a tea-rose or a pearl. Her features were daintily modelled, and like slender lilies were the
hands holding the deep blue plate from which the pigeons--white, grey and bronze, fed--fluttering
about her with soft cooings.

The picture was so much more like a poet's dream than a reality, that the boy-poet stepped
back, with an exclamation of surprise.

"It is only my mother," explained Rob. "She'll be glad to see you."

The next moment she had perceived the boys, and with quick impulse, set the plate upon the
ground and came forward, and before a word of introduction could be spoken, had taken the visitor's
hand between both her own fair palms, holding it thus, with gentle, gracious pressure, in a
pretty, cordial way she had, while she greeted him.

The soft eyes that rested on his face filled with kindness and welcome.

"So this is my Rob's friend," she was saying, in a low, musical voice. "Rob's mother is delighted
to see you for his sake and for your own too, Edgar, for I greatly admired your gifted mother.
I saw her once only, when I was a young girl, but I can never forget her lovely face and sweet,
plaintive voice. It was one of the last times she ever acted, and she was ill and pale, but
she was exquisitely beautiful and made the most charming Juliet. She interested me more than
any actress I have ever seen."

Edgar Poe longed to fall down and kiss her feet--to worship her. Her beauty, her gentleness
and her gracious words so stirred his soul that he grew faint. Power of speech almost left
him, and, vastly to his humiliation, he could with difficulty control his voice to utter a
few stumbling words of thanks--he who was usually so ready of speech!

If she noticed his confusion she did not appear to do so. Her heart had been touched by all
she had heard from her son of the lonely boy, and she had also been interested in accounts
of his gifts that had come to her from various sources. The beauty, the poetry, the pensiveness
of his face moved her deeply--knowing his history and divining the lack of sympathy one of
his bent would probably find in the Allan home, for all its indulgences.

She sat on a garden-bench and talked to him for a time, in her gentle, understanding way, and
then, not wishing to be a restraint upon the boys, (after placing her husband's fine library
at Edgar's disposal, and urging him to come often to see Rob) withdrew into the house.

The motherless boy looked after her until she had disappeared, and stared at the door that
had closed upon her until he was recalled from his reverie by the voice of his friend, suggesting
that they now see the rabbits. Edgar looked at the gentle creatures with unseeing eyes, though
he appeared to be listening to the prattle of his companion concerning them. Suddenly, in a
voice filled with enthusiasm and with a touch of awe in it, he said:

"Rob, your mother is divinely beautiful--and good."

"Bully," was the nonchalant reply. "The best thing about her is the way she takes up for a
fellow when he brings in a bad report or gets into a scrape. Fathers always think it's their
sons' fault, you know."

Edgar flushed. "Bully--" he said to himself, with a shudder. The adjective applied to her seemed
blasphemy.

Aloud, he said, "She's an angel! She's the one I've always dreamed about."

"You dreamed about mother when you had never seen her?" questioned the astonished Rob. "What
did you dream?"

"Nothing, in the way you mean. I meant she is like my idea of a perfect woman. The kind of
woman a man could always be good for, or would gladly die to serve."

"Well, I'm not smart enough to think out things like that, Eddie, but Mother certainly is all
right. What you say about her sounds nice, and she'd understand it, too. I just bet that you
and mother'll be the best sort of cronies when you know each other better. She likes all those
queer old books you think so fine, and she knows whole pages of poetry by heart. When you and
she get together it will be like two books talking out loud to each other. I won't be able
to join in much, but it will be as good as a play to listen."

The young poet bent his steps homeward with but one thought, one hope in his heart, and that
a consuming one: to look again upon the lovely face, to hear again the voice that had enthralled
him, had taken his heart by storm and filled it with a veritable grande passion--the rapturous
devotion of the virgin heart of an ardent and romantic youth. First love--yet so much more
than ordinary love--a pure passion of the soul, in which there was much of worship and nothing
of desire. Surely the most pure and holy passion the world has ever known, for in it there
was absolutely nothing of self. Like Dante after his first meeting with Beatrice, this Virginia
boy-poet had entered upon a Vita Nuova--a new life--made all of beauty.

What difference did the taunts of schoolmates, the hardness of a foster-father make now? The
wounds they made had been gratefully healed by the balm of her beauteous words about his mother.
Those old wounds were as nothing--neither they nor anything else had power to harm him now.
In the new life that had opened so suddenly before him he would bear a charmed existence.

He went to his room before the usual hour that night, for he wanted to be alone with his dreams--with
his newest, most beautiful dream. To his room, but not to bed. Life was too beautiful to be
wasted in sleep. He lighted his lamp and holding his mother's picture within its circle of
light, gazed long and devotedly upon it. Did she know of the great light that had shone out
of what seemed a sunless sky upon her boy? Had she, looking out from high Heaven, seen the
gracious greeting of the beautiful being who was Madonna and Psyche in one? Had she heard her
own cause so sweetly championed, her own name so sweetly cleared of opprobrium?

He threw himself upon his lounge and lay with his hands clasped under his curly head, still
dreaming--dreaming--dreaming--until day-dreams were merged into real dreams, for he was fast
asleep.

In his sleep he saw the lady of his dreams in a situation of peril, from which he joyfully
rescued her. He awoke with a start. His lamp had burned itself out but a late moon flooded
the room with the white light that he loved. A breeze laden with odors caught from the many
rose-gardens and the heavier-scented magnolias, now in full bloom, it had come across, stirred
the curtain. His nostrils, always sensitive to the odors of flowers, drank it in rapturously.
So honey-sweet it was, his senses swam.

He arose and looked out upon the incense-breathing blossoms, like phantoms, under the moon.
A clock in a distant part of the house was striking twelve. How much more beautiful was the
world now--at night's high noon--than at the same hour of the day.

All the house, save himself, was asleep. How easy it would be to escape into this lovely night--to
walk through this ambrosial air to the house-worshipful in which she doubtless lay, like a
closed lily-flower, clasped in sleep.

A mocking-bird--the Southland's nightingale--in, some tree or bush not far away, burst into
passion-shaken melody that seemed to voice, as no words could, his own emotion.

Down the stair he slipped, and out of the door, into the well-nigh intoxicating beauty of the
southern summer's night. Indeed, the odors of the dew-drenched flowers--the moonlight--the
bird-music, together with his remembrance of his lady's greeting, went to his head like wine.

The words of the latter half of this serenade were meaningless as applied to his case. To have
quoted them--even mentally--in any literal sense, would have seemed to him profanation; yet
the whole poem in some way not to be analysed or defined, expressed his mood--and who so brutal
as to seek to reduce to common-sense the emotions of a poet-lover, in the springtime of life?

At length he was before the closed and shuttered house, standing silent and asleep. Opposite
were the grassy slopes of Capitol Square--with the pillared, white Capitol, in its midst, looking,
in the moonlight, like a dream of old Greece. Her house! He looked upon its moonlit, ivied
walls with adoration. A light still shone from one upper room. Was it her chamber? Was she,
too, awake and alive to the beauty of this magic night?

His heart beat tumultuously at the thought. Then--Oh, wonder! His knees trembled under him--he
grew dizzy and was ready, indeed, to cry, "I die, I faint, I fail!" She crossed the square
of light the window made. In her uplifted hand she carried the lamp from which the light shone,
and for a moment her slight figure, clad all in white as he had seen her in the garden a few
hours before, and softly illuminated, was framed in the ivy-wreathed casement. But for a moment--then
disappeared, but the trembling boy-lover and poet seemed to see it still, and gazed and gazed
until the light was out and all the house dark.

He stumbled back through the moonlight to his home, he crept up the creaking stair again, to
his little, dormer-windowed room; but sleep was now, more than ever, impossible.

Though the lamp had gone out, a candle stood upon a stand at the head of his bed. He lighted
it, and by its ray, wrote, under the spell of the hour, the first utterance in which he, Edgar
Poe, ascended from the plane of a maker of "promising" verse, to the realm of the true poet--a
poem to the lady of his heart's dream destined (though he little guessed it) to make her name
immortal and to send the fame of his youthful passion down the ages as one of the world's historic
love-affairs.

What was her name? he wondered. He had never heard it, but he would call her Helen--Helen,
the ancient synonym of womanly beauty, but the loveliest Helen, he believed, that ever set
poet-lover piping her praise.

CHAPTER IX.

With his meeting with "Helen," a new life, indeed, seemed to have opened for Edgar the Dreamer.
Not only had her own interest and sympathy been aroused, but her husband, a learned and accomplished
judge of the Supreme Court of Virginia, also received him cordially and became deeply interested
in him, and he found in their home what his own had lacked for him, a thoroughly congenial
atmosphere.

"Helen" Stanard listened kindly to his boyish rhapsodies about his favorite poets, and encouraged
him to bring her his own portefolio of verses, which he did, all but the ones addressed to
herself--these he kept secret. She read all he brought her carefully, and intelligently criticised
them in a way that was a real help to him.

As has been said, when Mr. Allan had discovered that his adopted son was a rhymster, he had
rebuked him severely for such idle waste of time, and in a vain attempt to clip the wings of
Pegasus, threatened him with punishment if he should hear of such folly again. Mrs. Allan,
on the contrary, though she was not a bookish woman, had protested against her husband's command--urging
that Edgar be encouraged to cultivate his talent. The ability to compose verse seemed to her,
in a boy of Edgar's age, little short of miraculous, and, proud of her pet's accomplishment,
she heaped indiscriminate praise upon every line that she saw of his writing.

The boy, hardly knowing which way to escape, between these two fires that bade fair to work
the ruin of his gift, turned eagerly to his new friend. "Helen" gently told him that she believed
his talent to be a sacred trust, and that he would be committing sin to bury it--even though
by so doing he should be fulfilling the wishes of his foster-father to whom he owed so much.
He must, however, not forget his duty to Mr. Allan in regard to this matter, as in other things,
but treat his views with all the consideration possible. Above all things, he was never to
depart from the truth in talking to him, but to tell him in a straightforward and respectful
way that he believed it his duty when poetical thoughts presented themselves to his mind, to
set them down, and even to encourage and invite such thoughts.

At the same time, she earnestly warned him against being overmuch impressed by the flattering
estimates of his work of his friends, especially of his mother, who was far too partial to
him, personally, to be a safe judge of his writings.

A happier summer than is often given mortals to know, Edgar the Dreamer passed at the feet
of the lovely young matron who had become a sort of mother-confessor to him. Happiness which,
with a touch of the superstition that was characteristic of him he often told himself was too
perfect to last. What was it that made him feel sometimes in looking upon her under the serene
sky of that ideal summer that a cloud no bigger than a man's hand threw its shadow upon her?
Was it that faint hint of sadness in her dark eyes or the ethereal radiance of her pale complexion
that while thrilling him with delight in the exquisite quality of her beauty, filled him with
foreboding?

       *       *       *       *       *

Ere the frosts of autumn had robbed her garden of its glory, blighting sorrow had fallen upon
her tender mother-heart in the death of a darling baby girl. Beneath this blow the health of
sweet "Helen," always frail, succumbed, and her home became thenceforth as a living tomb, in
which the few who ever saw her again trod softly and spoke in hushed voices.

When the earliest roses were in bloom in her garden two years after Edgar Poe first saw her
there, she lay in her coffin, and for him, the world seemed to have come to an end.

She was laid to rest in the new cemetery on Shockoe Hill, not far from the Allan home. The
bier was followed by its black procession of mourners, and no one knew that the heart of a
youth who followed too, but at a distance, was breaking. Though husband and children and brother
and sister were bowed with grief, he told himself that there was among them no sorrow like
unto his sorrow who had not even the right of kinship to mourn for her. Of what business of
his (he fancied, out of the bitterness of his soul, the world saying) of what business of his
was her death? What business had he to mourn?

Again his feet kept time to the old refrain of never, nevermore, that hammered in his brain--a
refrain that to the unrealizing ear of the child of three had been sad with a beautiful, rhythmic
sadness that was rather pleasurable than otherwise; that to the youth of sixteen was still
musical and beautiful, though filled with despair.

As during his childhood, and afterwards, he had found a mournful pleasure in visiting the grave
of his mother, in the churchyard on the hill; so now he found a blessed solace, in his terrible
loneliness, in pilgrimages to the shrine (for as such he held the grave of his saint) in the
new cemetery. These pilgrimages he usually made at night--his grief was too sacred a thing
to be flaunted in broad daylight. Many a night during the spring and summer found him slipping
down the stair, when the house was asleep, and taking his way through the silent city of Slumber
to that even more silent city of Death.

Oh, that those that lay there not much more still than they who lay asleep in their beds in
that other city, might arise like them with the morrow's sun!

Often, as he walked along, drinking in the perfumed night air that he loved--the night breeze
gratefully lifting the ringlets from his fevered brow--often he thought of that first summer's
night when with the sweet words of Shelley's serenade: "I arise from dreams of thee," singing
themselves in his heart, he had gone with light feet to worship beneath her window.

Ah, the world was young then, for sweet hope was alive!

The iron gates of the cemetery were locked, but the wall was not very high. To scale it but
added zest to his adventure. He would be a knight unfit for his vigil if he were to let himself
be so easily balked.

Within the wall the odors of flowers were even heavier, more oppressively sweet than without,
and the silence surpassed the silence of the outer city even as the stillness of the sleepers
here surpassed the stillness of those yonder.

He listened and listened to the silence. Surely if she should speak, even from down under the
ground he could hear her across this silence which was as a void--a black and terrible void.

His first pilgrimages were by moonlight, but when the moonless nights came he continued his
vigils. He would have known the way by that time with his eyes shut.

Sometimes he was afraid--horribly afraid. He seemed, in the shadows, to descry weird phantom-shapes,
moving stealthily; in the silence to hear ghostly whispers; sometimes he fancied he heard the
silence itself! But in the very fear that clutched his throat there was a fascination--a lure--that
made it impossible to turn back.

His sorrow was exquisite; his terror was exquisite; his loneliness was oh, how exquisite! Yet
in courting them all, here in the dead of night, prone on her grave, he found the only balm
he knew--the only sympathy; for to his fancy the dark and the quiet had always seemed sentient
things and he felt that they gave him a sympathy he did not--could not ask of people.

       *       *       *       *       *

A breathless night in July found him at the familiar tryst at an earlier hour than was his
wont. He lay upon the grass at her feet with his hands clasped under his head and his face
turned up to the stars. There was moonlight as well as starlight, and in its silvery radiance
his features, always pale, had the frigid whiteness of marble. The wide-open eyes that stared
upward to the stars, were larger, darker than in daylight, and more full of brooding; the white
brow, with its crown of dark ringlets was whiter and more expansive.

In a dormer-windowed cottage overlooking a rose garden, on Clay Street, an erect gentleman
in an uncompromising stock and immaculate ruffles, with narrow blue eyes under a beetling brow,
and a somewhat hawk-like nose, sharply questioned a fair and graceful lady, with an anxious
expression on her flower-face, as to why "that boy" did not come home to his supper. But they
were used by now, to the boy's strange, wayward whims, and so did not marvel much. Only--they
had not seen him since the feat that had set the town ringing with his name and it seemed to
them that it would have been natural for him to come home in the flush of his triumph and tell
them about it.

Edgar Poe had that day created the sensation of the hour by swimming from the Richmond wharves
to Warwick--a distance of six miles--in the midsummer sun.

Richmond was a fair and pleasant little city in those days, in spite of the fact that our boy-poet
found in it so much to make him melancholy. "The merriest place in America," Thackeray called
it some years later, and would probably have said the same of it then had he been there. The
blight of Civil War had not touched the cheerful temper of its people; the tenement row had
not crowded out grass and flowers. It was more a large village than a town, with gracious homes--not
elbowing each other for foundation room, but standing comfortably apart, amid their green lawns,
and with wide verandahs overhanging their many-flowered gardens.

"After tea," on warm nights, the houses overflowed into these verandahs, and there was much
visiting from one to another--much light-hearted talk and happy laughter; the popular theme
being whatever happened to be "the news."

It was the day of contentment, for wants were moderate and plentifully supplied; the day of
satisfaction in wholesome domestic joys; the day of hospitality without grudging; the day when
sweetness extracted from little pleasures did not need spicing, for palates were not jaded;
the day of the ideal simple life.

Upon this night, as on other nights, young girls who were not yet "gone to the springs" floated
along the fashionable promenades, in airy muslins, with their cavaliers beside them. Groups
of gentlemen and ladies sat on the porches and children played hide-and-seek, chased fire-flies,
or sat on the steps and listened to the talk of their elders. And everywhere, in all of the
groups, the chief topic was the boy, Edgar Poe, and his wonderful swim.

And the boy who had in an afternoon become, for the time being at least, the foremost figure
in town, knew it, but did not care.

To lie alone on the grass by the grave of his dead divinity and gaze at the far stars, and
brood upon his young sorrows--this gave him more satisfaction than to be the central figure
of any one of the groups singing his praise; filled him with a romantic despair that to his
high-strung soul had a more delicately sweet flavor than positive pleasure.

As to the erect gentleman in the high stock and the pretty lady with the tender, anxious face--they
had, for the present, no part in his thoughts. It was wrong and ungrateful of him that they
should not have, and if he had remembered them he would have known that it was wrong and ungrateful;
but he would not have cared. And as for his food--he had supped royally, and without compunction,
upon the fruit of an inviting orchard to which he had helped himself, unblushingly, upon his
way into town.

A reckless mood, born of the restlessness that was in his blood, was upon him.

The truth was, that poignant as was his pleasure in dwelling upon his poetical sorrow for the
adored "Helen"--his "lost Lenore"--it did not fully satisfy him. His youthful heart was hungry
for response to his out-poured sentiment, for the more robust diet of mutual love. In plain
English, Edgar Poe wanted, and wanted badly, a sweetheart, though he did not suspect it.

       *       *       *       *       *

When, finally, he scaled the cemetery wall and took his way homeward he did not go directly
to the dormer-windowed cottage where the erect gentleman and the pretty lady awaited him. Just
as he was approaching it he heard Elmira Royster's guitar in the porch opposite, and he crossed
the street and entered the Royster's gate.

The Roysters and Allans had been neighbors for years and he and Elmira had been "brought up
together." At the sound of approaching footsteps the guitar grew suddenly silent and a slight,
rather colorless girl in a white dress, with a white flower in her fluffy blonde hair, came
from out the shadow of the microphilla rose that embowered the porch and stood in the full
light of the moon, giving him greeting.

"Oh, I'm so glad to see you, Eddie," she said. "All of the family but me have gone to a party,
and I'm so lonesome! Besides, I, like everybody else in town, want a chance to congratulate you."

"Congratulate?" he replied, with a shrug, as he took a seat beside her, under the roses, "Congratulate?
In their hearts they all despise me." Then with a smile,

"You see the blue devils have the upper hand of me tonight, Myra."

"Well, they are fibbing devils if they tell you you are despised. Dick Ambler was over at your
house looking for you a little while ago, and he stopped by and told me about your swim. He
said he and the other boys that followed you in the boat had never seen anything so exciting
in their lives. They were expecting you to give out any minute and so much afraid that if you
did you would go under before they could get hold of you. When you won the wager they were
so proud and happy that they were almost beside themselves."

"Oh, I know Dick and the rest are the best and truest friends a fellow ever had--bless their
hearts--but they are the exceptions."

"Nonsense! There's not a boy in town tonight who would not give his head to be in your shoes,
and" (shyly) "the girls are all wild about you."

The hero smiled indulgently. No woman was ever thrown with Edgar Poe, from his birth up, but
in some fashion or degree, loved him, and to him all women were angels. He never, as boy or
man, entertained a thought or wrote a line of one of them that was not reverent. He admired,
in varying degree, all types of feminine loveliness, but Myra, though he liked her, was not
the style that he most cared for. He had always thought her too "washed out." The soul that
shone through her rather prominent, light-blue eyes was too transparent, too easily read. He
found more interesting the richer-hued brunette type, and the complex nature that goes with
it; the flashes of starlight, the softness and the warmth, of brown eyes; the mysteries that
lie in the shadow of dusky lashes; the variety of rich, warm tones in chestnut and auburn tresses.

But Myra was a revelation to him tonight. He had never dreamed that she could look so pretty--so
very pretty--as she did now in her white dress, with the moonlight filtering through the foliage
upon her fair hair and her face (turned full of liking and undisguised admiration upon him)
and her lovely arms, bared to the elbow. She had an ethereal, fairy-like appearance that was
bewitching, and in his despondent mood, her frank praise was more than sweet. Still his answer
was as bitter as ever,

"Oh, well, what does it all amount to? They would say the same of any acrobat in a circus whose
joints were a bit more limber than those of the rest of his tribe. That does not remove their
contempt for me, personally."

"I don't feel contempt for you, Eddie," she gently replied--just breathing it.

(Myra was really wonderful tonight. He had not known her voice could have so much color in
it; and the white flower in her hair--a cape-jessamine, its excessively sweet fragrance told
him--gave her pale beauty the touch of romance it had always lacked). The poetic eyes that
looked into hers mellowed, the cynical voice softened:

"Don't you Myra? Well, you'd better cultivate it. Its the fashion, and it's the only feeling
I'm worth."

"Eddie," she said earnestly--tenderly, "I want you to promise me that you won't talk that way
any more--at least not to me--it hurts me."

Her hand, on his sleeve, was as fair as a petal from the jessamine flower in her hair. He took
it gently in his.

"Dear little Myra, little playmate--" he said. "You are my friend, I know, and have been since
we were mere babies, in spite of knowing, as you do, what a naughty, idle, disobedient boy
I've been, deserving every flogging and scolding I've gotten and utterly unworthy all the good
things that have come my way--including your dear friendship."

"You are breaking your promise already," she said. "You shall not run yourself down to me.
I think you are the nicest boy in town!"

There was nothing complex about Myra. Her mind was an open book, and he suddenly found he liked
it so--liked it tremendously. Her unveiled avowal of preference for him was most soothing to
his restless, dissatisfied mood.

"Thank you, Myra," he said tenderly, kissing the flower-petal hand before he laid it down.
He had a strong impulse to kiss her, but resisted it, with an effort, and abruptly changed
the subject.

"Did you know that we are going to move?" he asked. "And that I'm going to the University next
winter?"

"To move?" she questioned, aghast. "Where?"

"To the Gallego mansion, at Fifth and Main Streets. Mr. Allan has bought it. The dear little
mother, who, I'd say, if you'd let me, is so much better to me than I deserve, is full of plans
for furnishing it and is going to fit up a beautiful room in it for me. It will be a delightful
home for us, and quite grand after our modest cottage, but do you know I'm goose enough to
be homesick at the thought of giving up my little den under the roof? Myself and I have had
such jolly times together in it!"

She had scarcely heard him, except the first words and the stunning facts they contained. There
was a minute's silence, then she spoke in a changed, quivering voice.

"Then that will be the end of our friendship, I suspect! When you get out of the neighborhood,
and are off most of the time at the University, we will doubtless see little more of you."

Her clear blue eyes were shining up at him through tears. Her mouth was tremulous as a distressed
child's. The appeal met an instant response from the tender-hearted poet. Both the flower-like
hands were captured this time, and held fast, in spite of their fluttering. The excessively
sweet fragrance of the blossom in her hair was in his nostrils. Her quick, short breaths told
him of the tempest in her tender young bosom.

"Myra, little Myra, do you care like that?" he cried. "Then let the friendship go, and be my
dear little sweetheart, won't you? I'm dying of loneliness and the want of somebody to love
and to love me--somebody who understands me--and you do, don't you, Myra, darling?"

She was too happy to answer, but she suffered him to put his arms around her and kiss her soft
pale hair--and her brow--and her tremulous mouth--the first kisses of love to him as well as
to her. And ah, how sweet!

He laughed happily, lifted out of his gloom by this new, this deliriously sweet dream.

"Do you know, little sweetheart," he said, in a voice that was bubbling with joy, "I feel that
you have cast those devils out of me forever. It was you that I wanted all the time, and did
not know it. Some of these days, when I've been through college and settled down, we will be
married, and wherever our home is, we must always have a porch like this, with a rose on it,
and" (kissing her brow) "you must always wear a jessamine in your hair."

And so the boy-poet and his girl play-mate, very much to their own surprise, parted affianced
lovers, and a long vista of sunlit days seemed to beckon The Dreamer.

CHAPTER X.

The session at the University did not begin until the middle of February, so love's young dream
was not to be interrupted too soon. Meantime, its sweetness was only enhanced by thought of
the coming separation. The affair had too, the interest of secrecy, for the youthful lovers
well knew the storm of opposition that would be raised, in both their homes, if it should be
discovered. This need of secrecy made frequent meetings and exchange of vows impossible, but
it gave to such as occurred the flavor of stolen sweets and kept the young sinners in a tantalized
state which was excruciating and at the same time delightful, and which still further fed the
flames and convinced them of the realness and intensity of their passion.

When they did meet, their awed, joyous confessions of mutual love charmed the lonely, romantic
boy by their very novelty. In them his fairest dreams were fulfilled. How sweet it was in these
rare, stolen moments, to crush the pure young creature, who would be his own some day, against
his wildly beating heart--how passing sweet to hear against his ear her whispered, hesitating
vows of deep, everlasting love!

In his pretty new room overlooking the terraced garden of the stately mansion which had become
his home, Edgar Poe plunged headlong into Byron, and in the mood thus induced, penned many
a verse, no worse and not much better than the rhymes of lovelorn youths the world over and
time out of mind, to be copied into Myra's album.

Between the love-making and preparation for college, time took wings. In what seemed an incredibly
short space summer and fall were gone, Christmas, with its festivities, was over and the new
year--the year 1826--had opened.

It was upon St. Valentine's Day that, with a feeling of solemnity worthy of the act, the seventeen
year old lover and student wrote the name Edgar Allan Poe, and the date of his birth, upon
the matriculation book of the University of Virginia--open for its second session. Upon the
day before the beauty and the poetry--the inspiration--of the place had burst upon him, and
this first impression still held his soul in thrall.

Here, in this fair Virginia vale, ringed about with the heaven-kissing hills of the Blue Ridge,
the scholastic village conjured by Jefferson's fertile imagination lay before him in the clear,
winter sunshine. Its lawns and its gardens were just now white with an unbroken blanket of
new-fallen snow; the young trees which had been planted in avenues along the lawns, but which
were as yet hardly more than shrubs, glittered with icicles, and above them rose the classic
columns of the colonnaded dormitories and professors' houses; while at one end of the oblong
square the majestic dome and columns of the Rotunda stood out against the sky. As the entranced
Dreamer gazed and gazed, trying to imagine what it must be like by moonlight--what it would
be in spring--what (a few years later, when the trees should have grown large enough to arch
the walks) in summer--he told himself that surely in this garden-spot of the Old Dominion,
bricks and mortar had sprung into immortal bloom, and he found himself quoting a line of his own:

     "The glory that was Greece and the grandeur that was Rome."

Upon his earliest opportunity he sat down and wrote Myra a rhapsody upon it all. Her presence,
he felt, and he wrote her, was all needed to make the place a paradise.

Under his name upon the matriculation book he had written, with confidence:

"Schools of Ancient and Modern Languages." In the school of Ancient Languages were taught (according
to the announcement for the year) "Hebrew, rhetoric, belles-lettres ancient history and geography;"
in the school of Modern Languages, "French, Spanish, Italian, German, and the English language
in its Anglo Saxon form; also modern history and modern geography." A list, one would think,
to daunt the courage of a seventeen year old student and make him feel that he had the world
on his shoulders.

It was quite the contrary with The Dreamer. He felt instead that he had suddenly developed
wings. Learning came easy to him. He was already a good French and Latin scholar, and the rest
did not frighten him. Not only was he not in the least burdened by thought of the work he was
cutting out for himself, but he was elated by a sense of freedom such as he had never known
before. Always before, both at home and at school, he had been under surveillance. But now
he was to be a partaker of the benefits of Mr. Jefferson's theories of the treatment of students
as men and gentlemen--letting their conduct be a matter of noblesse oblige.

In the youth of seventeen this sudden withdrawal of oversight and regulation produced an exhilaration
that was indeed pleasurable. Among the unfrequented hills known as the "Ragged Mountains,"
not far away, was a wild and romantic region that invited him to fascinating exploration--perhaps
adventure. Instead of having to beg permission or to steal off upon the solitary rambles which
he loved, to this enchanting country, he could, and did, go when he chose, openly, and with
no questions asked or rebukes given.

He held up his head with a new confidence at the thought, and took his dreams of ambition and
love, whenever he could allow himself time to do so, to the enticing new region (as unlike
anything around Richmond as if it were in a different world) adjacent to which, for the time,
his lot lay.

He did not neglect his classes, however. They were regularly attended and his standing was
excellent; so the professors had no cause for making inquiry into the pursuits of his private
hours. The library, too, in the beautiful Rotunda, was a new, if different, field for his exploration
and one that gave him great delight, for he found there many volumes of quaint and curious
lore whose acquaintance he had never before made.

       *       *       *       *       *

His imaginary wings were soon enough to be clipped--his exhilaration to drop from him as suddenly
as it had come.

He did not hear from Myra!

He watched eagerly for the mails, and as day after day passed without bringing him a letter,
deep dejection claimed him. Finally he wrote to her again--and then again--and again--frantically
appealing to her to write to him and assure him of her constancy if she would save his life.

Still, no word from her.

The truth was that Myra, at home in Richmond, was awaiting each mail-time as feverishly as
he. The faint suggestion of rose her cheeks usually wore, had entirely disappeared and deep
circles caused by lack of sleep and lost appetite made her light blue eyes appear more prominent
than ever before. The ethereal look that had been her chief claim to beauty had become exaggerated
into a ghastliness that was not in the least bewitching. She, like Edgar, had pocketed her
pride and followed her first letter with others more and more expressive of her tender maiden
passion; but her father, who had begun to suspect an affair between her and the players' son
a short time before Edgar left for the University, had kept diligent watch for the passage
of letters, and had successfully intercepted them.

And so the unhappy pair pined and sighed and gloomed, each reckoning the other faithless and
believing that life was forever robbed of joy.

Edgar Poe had never really loved the girl. He had merely loved the dream to which her tender
words and timid caresses gave an adorable reality; but now in his disappointment at not hearing
from her he felt that her love and loyalty to him were the only things in the world worth having
and persuaded himself that without her there as no incentive to live or to strive. His misery
was increased by an over-whelming homesickness, to escape from which, he wandered restlessly
about, vainly seeking excitement and forgetfulness.

In this mood, he eagerly accepted an invitation to spend the evening from a class-mate whose
room in "Rowdy Row" had a reputation for conviviality. His own room, shared by a quiet and
steady Richmond boy with whom he had a slight acquaintance at home, was in one of the cloister-like
dormitories opening upon the main lawn.

While Edgar Poe had been a somewhat wayward and at times a disobedient boy, at home, he had
never been a bad boy except when judged by John Allan's standards, and had never been in the
least wild. Wines were used upon the table of his foster-father, as upon the tables of other
gentlemen whose homes he had visited, and he had always been permitted to drink a small quantity
at a time, at dinner, or to sip a little mint-julep from the goblet passed around before breakfast
and supposed to be conducive to appetite and healthful digestion; but he had never thought
of exceeding this allowance. As to cards, he knew nothing of them save as an innocent, social
pastime in which he found pleasure, as in all other games and sports--especially such as required
exercise of ingenuity or mental skill.

The evening in "Rowdy Row" was therefore a revelation, as well as a diversion to him. As he
approached the end of this arcaded row in which his new friend's room was situated his interest
received a spur from the sounds of hilarity that greeted him, and his spirits began to rise.
In a few moments more he found himself in the midst of a group of exceedingly jolly youths
evidently prepared to make a night of it. Several of them were gathered about a huge bowl in
which they were mixing a variety of punch which they called "peach-honey." Others were seated
around a card table while one of their number entertained the rest with what seemed to be almost
magical tricks. These Edgar joined. His interest was immediately aroused and he fixed his eyes
with intentness upon the juggler. The tricks were new to him, but he soon amazed the crowd
by showing the solution of them all.

Finally, the punch was declared to be ready; other packs of cards were produced and the real
sport of the evening began. It was Edgar's first experience in drinking with boys and his conscience,
not yet hardened to it, kept him in check without worrying him enough to destroy his pleasure.
Somewhat of his old exhilaration returned to him at the bare thought, for he felt himself a
man, following his own will and yet not disobeying any direct command.

In spite of much urging, he only drank one glass of the peach-honey, but thanks to a jovial
ancestor of whom he had never heard, but of some of whose sins (in accordance with the ancient
law) he bore the marks in his temperament, he was peculiarly susceptible to the influences
of strong drink, and as he drained the glass at a gulp, a new freedom seemed to enter his soul.
The dejection which had oppressed him dropped from him instantly, and with his great eyes glowing
like lamps with new zest in life, he sat down at a card table to be initiated into the mysteries
of the fascinating game of loo, which had lately become the fashion, and at the same time into
his first experience in playing for money.

He had beginner's luck--held good hands and won straight through the game. His success, with
the effects of the punch, developed his wittiest vein and Edgar Goodfellow assumed complete
ascendancy.

His new acquaintances were charmed, and encouraged his mood by loud applause and congratulated
themselves upon having added to their number such good company.

From that night Edgar Poe's new friends, who constituted what was known as the "fast set" at
the University, became his boon companions. It was in the card-table, much more than the punch-bowl
that the charm for him lay, for the gambling fever had entered his blood with his first winnings,
but in the combination of the two he found, for the present, a sure cure for his "blue devils."

Alas, Helen! Where was your sweet spirit that it did not hover, as guardian angel, about the
head of this wayward child of genius in his hour of sore need, when temptations gathered thick
around his pathway and there was no one to steer him into safer waters; no one to restrain
his feet from their first blind steps toward that Disaster to which ruinous companionship invited
him, with syren voice?

True, his staid room-mate, Miles George, raised his voice in warning against the dangerous
intimacies he was forming but Miles' view seemed extreme to him. Besides, he found at the University
the same caste feeling that had cut him off from familiar intercourse with the leaders among
his Richmond schoolmates. It was but natural, therefore, that he should have turned gratefully,
to the society where his welcome was sure.

Finally words passed between him and Miles, ending in a formal meeting, with seconds on both
sides. Their only weapons were their fists, and they shook hands afterward; but the idea of
continuing to share the same bed-room was out of the question. Of the vacant rooms to be had,
Edgar promptly decided upon Number 13, Rowdy Row, and the second step in a wrong direction
quickly followed the first.

He was hailed by the rest of the "Row" with delight, and he promptly decided to return their
many hospitalities in his new room, which he proceeded to elaborately prepare for their reception.

The result was an early and noisy house-warming. The guests were filled with admiration to
find the walls of Number 13 decorated in honor of the occasion with charcoal sketches representing
scenes from Byron's works done by the clever hand of the new occupant himself. They also found
Edgar Goodfellow in the character of host, presiding over his own card-table and his own bowl--a
generous one--of peach-honey, in the highest feather and his most captivating mood.

CHAPTER XI.

Erelong Number 13 was the liveliest and most popular room in the Row, but of the orgies held
there the faculty rested in blissful unconsciousness. At class-time young Poe was invariably
in his place and invariably the pale, thoughtful, student-like and faultlessly neat and gentle-mannered
youth whose intelligent attention and admirable recitations were the joy of his masters. They
heard rumors that he was something of a poet and were not surprised, the suggestions of ideality
in the formation of his brow and the expression of his eyes hinted at such talent, and so long
as he did not let the Muse come between him and his regular work, he should not be discouraged
or restrained.

Indeed, in spite of the sway of Edgar Goodfellow at this time, Edgar the Dreamer was often
present too, and during solitary tramps into the wild fastenesses of the Ragged Mountains,
he not only conceived many fancies to be worked into poems, but made mentally, the first draft
of a story to win fame.

The love of no real woman came to supplant the seemingly faithless Elmira, and though he still
carried his mother's miniature with him and gazed often and fondly upon it, the sense of nearness
between her spirit and his and the soul satisfaction he had found in this nearness in the past,
were gone. The gambling fever that had fired his veins and the nightly potations of peach-honey
created an excitement and restlessness that blurred the images his memory held of the angel
mother who had dominated his childhood and of the madonna-like mistress who had filled the
dreams of his early youth. These holy dreams became for the time being, a reproach to him,
for they aroused his conscience to an unpleasant activity which required more frequent recourse
to peach-honey to quiet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Love was, nevertheless, as necessary to this poet's soul as meat and drink were to his body,
and in the No Man's Land, "out of space, out of time," which his fancy created and where it
loved to stray, he fashioned for himself the weirdest, strangest lady ever loved by mortal.
The name he gave her was "Ligeia." She laid upon him no exactions, chastened him with no rebukes,
demanded of him no service save that he should dream--and dream--and dream; for was not she
herself formed from "such stuff as dreams are made of?"

The music of nature had long possessed a sort of personality for Edgar Poe, and now the voices,
the motions, the numberless colors of the world about him took definite shape in his fancy
of a wonderous fairy-woman whom he worshipped with an unearthly, poetic passion that was compared
to the passion of the normal man to flesh and blood woman as moonlight to sunshine--a passion
which was luminous without heat.

Dim and elusive as is the very conception of "Ligeia" to the ordinary mind, she was perfectly
real to her creator. In the summer-night breeze he heard the music of her voice and felt the
delicious coolness of her caress. Tall, swaying trees spoke to him of her height, her majesty
and her grace. He perceived the softness and lightness of her footfalls in the passage of evening
shadows across a lake or meadow, the perfection of her features in the form and finish of flower
petals and the delicate tints of her beauty in the coloring of flowers; the raven hue and sweeping
length of of her tresses in the drowning shades of midnight and the entrancing veil of her
lashes in deep mysterious woods; and when, in fancy, he looked beneath that veil into her eyes,
as unfathomable as the ocean itself, he was struck dumb with reverence and wonder, for they
held in keeping all the secrets of the moon and the stars, of dawn and sunset, of green things
growing and flowers in bloom, of the butterfly in the crysalis and on the wing, of still waters
and of running brooks.

To the inner vision of this most unusual youth, "Ligeia"--this myth called into being by the
enchantment of his own fancy--not only became as real as if she had been flesh and blood; his
pagan soul bowed down before her and she blotted from his mind, for the time, all thought or
consciousness of more robust womanhood. She became, in imagination, the sharer of his studies,
the wife of his bosom, and he sat at her feet and gladly learned from her the beautiful, strange
secrets of this fearfully and wonderfully made world.

He was sometimes haunted by another, and a far less agreeable vision. In spite of the absence
of restraint under which he lived and the fact that between his dreams, his books and his dissipations
there seemed little opportunity left for the still, small voice to make itself heard, there
were times when his better self shook off slumber and rose before him like a ghost that, for
all his efforts, would not be laid--a ghost like him in all regards save for the sternness
of its look and of the voice which accused him in whispers to which all others ears were deaf,
but his own intensely, horribly sensitive.

It was generally at the very height of excitement in play, when he had just been dealt a hand
which he told himself, with exultation, would win him all the money in the pool, or, perhaps
at the moment when he raised the glass to his lips, anticipating the delicious exhilaration
of the seductive peach-honey, that the unwelcome spectre would, with startling suddenness,
appear before his eyes. His face would blanch, his own voice become almost as hoarse as the
warning whisper that was in his ear, and with trembling hand he would put down the cards or
the cup and refuse to have anything more to do with the evening's sport.

His companions at first thought these attacks the result of some physical weakness but finally
became accustomed to them and attributed them to his "queerness."

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus the youthful poet passed his year at college--dividing his time between his dreams, his
classes and his carousals. The session closed in December. The final examinations occupied
the early part of the month and when the faculty met upon the 14th., it was found that Edgar
Poe had not only stood well in all of his studies, but in two of them--Latin and French--he
had taken the highest honors.

In spite of this, and of the fact that at no time during the session had he come under the
censure of the faculty, a startling revelation was made. Edgar Poe, model student as he seemed
to be, whose only fault--if it could be called a fault--as the faculty knew him, had been a
tendency toward a romantic dreaminess that had led him upon lonely rambles among the hills
rather eccentric in a boy of seventeen; Edgar Poe, the quiet, the gentlemanly, the immaculately
neat, the scholarly, the poetic, had been a spendthrift and a reckless gambler. His debts,
for a boy of his age, were astounding. No one was more amazed at the sum of them than Edgar
himself. He had always had the lordly indifference to money, and the contempt for keeping account
of it, that was the natural result of being used to have what seemed to him to be an unlimited
supply to draw upon, with the earning of which he had nothing to do. As to hoarding it, he
would as soon have thought of hoarding the air he breathed which came to him with no less effort.
He was, unfortunately, as heedless of what he owed as what he spent--lavishing it upon his
companions as long as it lasted and when his supply of cash was exhausted running up accounts
with little thought of a day of reckoning--though of course he fully intended to pay.

His mind was, indeed, too much engrossed with the charming creations of his brain to leave
him time for brooding upon such sordid matters as the keeping of accounts, or the making of
two ends meet. The amount of his indebtedness was now, however, sufficient to give him a shock
which thoroughly aroused him, and he was genuinely distressed; for he had no wish to ruthlessly
pain his foster-father. The haunting better self not only arose and confronted him, but remained
with him, keeping close step with him and upbraiding him and condemning him in the whisper
audible to his quick imagination and so terrifying.

Still, the thought that Mr. Allan had plenty of money, and that no severe sacrifice would be
needful for the payment of his debts relieved his penitence of much of its poignancy. That
Mr. Allan would settle these "debts of honor," as he called them, as the fathers and guardians
of boys as reckless as himself had done, he had not the slightest doubt. But, as will be seen,
he reckoned without Mr. Allan.

He wrote Mrs. Allan a dutiful letter, confessing all and expressing his sorrow, and begging
to be permitted to repay Mr. Allan for settling his affairs at the University with work as
a clerk in the counting house.

The letter filled the tender heart of the foster-mother with yearning. The sum frightened her,
though she, like the boy, comforted herself with the thought that her husband could pay it
without embarrassment. Still, she trembled to think of his wrath. Her chief feeling was one
of sympathy for her erring, penitent boy. How natural it was for one of his age to be led away
by evil associates! All boys--she supposed--must sow some wild oats, though few, she was confident,
showed such a beautifully penitent spirit, and it would be a small matter in future years when
he should have become the great and good man she knew he was going to be.

How noble it was of him to offer to give up or postpone the completion of the education so
dear to his heart and tie himself to a desk in that tiresome counting-house in order to pay
his debts--he that was born to shine as a poet. She exulted that he had offered to make such
a sacrifice, but he should never make it, never while she had breath in her body to protest!

How her heart bled for him in his sorrow over his wrong-doing! How she longed to fold his dear
curly head against her breast and tell him that he was quite, quite forgiven! She would reward
him for the splendid stand in his classes and at the same time make him forget his troubles
on account of the debts by giving him the loveliest imaginable Christmas. Uncle Billy must
search the woods for the brightest greens, the prettiest holly; for the house must look its
merriest for the home-coming of its young master, covered with honors! There must be mistletoe,
too she told herself, her mouth dimpling and a suspicion of a twinkle flashing out from under
her dewy lashes. The fatted calf should be killed, her boy should make merry with his friends.

The dear letter was kissed and cried over until it took much smoothing on her knee to make
it presentable to hand over to her husband for perusal. Her fingers were still busy stroking
out the crumples, though her tears were dried, and her thoughts were happily engaged with plans
for a Christmas party worthy to celebrate the home-coming of her darling, when Mr. Allan came
in to supper. She was brought back to recollection of the confession in the letter and her
apprehensions as to how it would be received, with a start, and before timidly handing her
husband the open letter, she began preparing him for its contents and excusing the writer.

"A letter from Eddie, John, dear. He has stood splendidly in his classes, but asks your forgiveness
for having done wrong in his spare time. He is so manly and noble in his confession, John,
and in his offer to make reparation!"

John Allan's face clouded and hardened instantly.

"What is this? Confession? Reparation?--Give me the letter!"

But she held it away from him.

"It seems he has gotten into a card-playing set who have led him away further than he realized.
Oh, don't look like that, John! He is so young, and you know how evil association can influence
the best of boys!"

But the storm gathered fast and faster on John Allan's face.

"Card-playing? Do you mean the boy has been gambling? Give me the letter."

She could withhold it no longer, but as he sat down to read it she threw herself upon an ottoman
at his feet and clasping his knees hid her face against them, crying,

"Oh, John, have pity, have pity!"

But even as she sobbed out the words, she felt their futility. She knew that there was no pity
to be expected from the owner of that face of stone, that eye of steel.

As he read, his rage became too great for the relief of an outburst. A still, but icy calm
settled upon him. For some minutes he spoke no word and seemed unconscious of the tender creature
so appealing in her loveliness and in the humility of her attitude, beseeching at his knee.
The truth was, that much as he loved her, his contempt for what he called her "weakness" for
the son of her adoption, but added to his harshness in judging the boy.

Presently he arose, impatiently pushing her away from him as he did so, saying;

"Pack my bag and order an early breakfast. I'm going to take the morning stage for the University."

It was a difficult evening for the little foster-mother. In the stately, octagon-shaped dining-room
soft lamplight was cheerily reflected by gleaming mahogany and bright silver and china, upon
which was served the most toothsome of suppers; but the meal was almost untouched and the mere
pretense of eating was carried through in silence and gloom. In the drawing-room, afterward,
the firelight leaped saucily against shining andirons and fender, bringing forgetfulness of
the frosty night outside, while the carved wood-work and the great mirrors and soft-hued paintings,
in their gilded frames, on the walls, and the deep carpets on the floors spoke of comfort.
But the beautiful room was a mockery, for the promised comfort, was not there--only futile
luxury. Upon that bright hearth was warmth for the body, but none for the spirit, for before
it sat the master and mistress--the presiding geniuses of the house--upon whose oneness the
structure of the home must stand, or without it fall into ruin; there they sat, wrapped in
moods so out of sympathy and tune that speech was as impossible between them as if they had
been of different tongues, and each unknown to the other.

Meantime, Edgar Poe was spending his last hours at the University in the dust and ashes of
self-condemnation and regretful retrospection No farewell orgie celebrated his leave-taking.
Only one of his friends was invited to his room that night and he no denizen of "Rowdy Row,"
but the quiet, irreproachable librarian. To this gentle guest The Dreamer confided his past
sins and his penitence, while he laid upon the glowing coals the year's accumulation of exercise
books, and the like, which had served their purpose and were finished and done with, and watched
the devouring flames leap from the little funeral pyre they made into the chimney.

More than anything he had ever done in his life, he told his companion, he regretted the making
of the gambling debts for which Mr. Allan would have to advance the money to pay. But, as has
been said, he reckoned without Mr. Allan, who settled all other obligations, but utterly ignored
the so-called "debts of honor."

"Debts of honor?" he queried with contempt. "Debts of dishonor, I consider them."

And that was his last word upon the subject.

CHAPTER XII.

The late January night was bitterly cold, and clear as crystal. There was a metallic glitter
about the round moon, shining down from a cloudless, blue sky--too bright to show a star--upon
the black and bare trees and shrubbery in the terraced garden of the Allan homestead.

Edgar Poe looked from his casement upon the splendor of the beautiful, but frigid and unsympathetic
night. Bitterness was in his heart contending with a fierce joy. At last it had come--the breach
with Mr. Allan--and he was going away! He knew not where, but he was going, going into the
wide world to seek fame and fortune.

He had much to regret. He loved Richmond--loved it for the joy and pain he had felt in it;
for the dreams he had dreamed in it. He loved it exceedingly for the two dear graves, one in
the churchyard on the hill and one in the new cemetery, that held his beloved dead.

Yes, he was sorry to leave this home-city, if not of his birth, at least of his childhood and
early youth, and his soul was still shaken by the scene with his foster-parents through which
he had just passed. But in spite of all, his heart--rejoicing in the nearness of the freedom
for which he had so fiercely longed, sang, and stilled his sorrow.

But a few weeks had passed since his return from the University. A few weeks? They seemed to
him years, and each one had left a feeling of increased age upon his spirit.

The home-coming had not been altogether unhappy--humiliating as it was. In spite of the black
looks of his foster-father, the little mother (bless her!) had welcomed him with out-stretched
arms and eyes beaming with undimmed love. Never had she been more tenderly sweet and dear.
She had given the most beautiful Christmas party, with all his best friends invited, and everything
just as she knew he would like it. Her husband had frowningly consented to this, but her tears
and entreaties were all of no avail to win his consent for the boy's return to college. Vainly
had she plead his talents which she believed should be cultivated, and the injustice (since
they had voluntarily assumed the responsibility of rearing him) of cutting short his education
at such an early age. John Allan was adamant.

And so, after the holidays, he had taken his place in the counting-house of "Ellis and Allan."

Distasteful as the new work was to the young poet, he was determined to stick to it, and would
probably have done so, but the strict surveillance he soon realized he was under (as if he
could not be trusted!) and the manner of Mr. Allan who rarely spoke to him except when it was
absolutely necessary, and seemed to regard him as a hopeless criminal, would have been unbearable
to a far less proud and sensitive nature than Edgar Poe's. Both at the office and at home,
Mr. Allan's narrow, steel-colored eyes seemed to keep constant watch, under their beetling
brows, for faults or blunders; and it seemed to the driven boy that no matter what he did or
said, he should have done or said just the reverse. He felt constantly that a storm was brewing
which must sooner or later, certainly break, and that night it had burst forth with all the
fury of the tempest which has been a long time gathering.

He hardly knew what had brought it on, or how it had begun. Its violence was so great as to
almost stun him until at length, without being more than half conscious of the significance
of his own words he had asked if it would not be better for him to go away and earn his own
living; and then came his foster-father's startlingly ready consent, with the warning that
if he did go he must look for no further aid from him.

His heart ached for the pretty, tender little mother. How soft the arms that had clung about
his neck, the lips that had pressed his hot brow! How piteous her dear tears! They had almost
robbed him of his resolution, but he had succeeded in steeling himself against this weakness.
He had folded her close in his arms and kissed her, and vowed that, come what might, he could
never forget her or cease to love her, and that he should always think of her as his mother
and himself as her child. Then he had put her gently from him for, for all his vows, she was
inseparably bound up in the old life from which he was breaking away--his life as John Allan's
adopted son--she could have no real place in his future.

Yet the tie that bound him to her was the strongest in his life and could not be severed without
keen pain. In the world into which he was going to fight the battle of life (he told himself)
memory of her would be one of his inspirations.

But where was that battle to be fought, and with what weapons? He had been brought up as a
rich man's son, and with the expectation of being a rich man's heir. He had been trained to
no money-making work, physical or mental; and now he was to fare forth into the great world
where there was not a familiar face, even, to earn his bread! What could he do that would bring
him the price of a loaf?--

Did the question appal him? Not in the least. He had youth, he had health, he had hope, he
had his beloved talent and the secret training he had given himself toward its cultivation.
His "heart-strings were a lute"--he felt it, and with an optimism rare for him he also felt
that he had but to strike upon that lute and the world must needs stop and listen.

What he did not have was experience and knowledge of the world. Little did he dream how small
a part of the busy hive would turn aside to hear his music or how little poetry had to do with
the earning of daily bread.

His trunk was standing open, half packed, though his destination was still undecided; and among
the first things that had gone into it was a box containing a number of small rolls of neat
manuscript. As he thought of them his heart warmed and his eyes grew soft.

"The world's mine oyster, and with my good pen I'll open it," he joyously paraphrased. But
toward what part of the world should he turn his face--to what market take his precious wares?
That was the all-important question! How much his fortune might depend upon his decision!

As he stood at the window, he stared into the brilliancy and the shadows of the icy, unresponsive
night--seeking a sign. But the cold splendor of the cloudless sky and glittering moon and the
inscrutible shadows in the garden below where the leafless trees and bushes cast monster shapes
upon the frozen ground, alike mocked him.

Presently there was the first hint of softness in the night. It came like a sigh of tender
pity across the stillness and he bent his head to listen. It was the voice of the faintest
of breezes blowing up from the south and passing his window. He threw wide his arms to empty
space as if to embrace some invisible form.

"Ligeia, Ligeia, my beautiful one," he breathed, invoking his dream-lady, "Be my counsellor
and guide! Let thy sweet voice whisper whither I must go!"

But the voice was silent and all the night was still again.

He turned from the window and threw himself into his arm-chair, letting his eyes rove about
the room as though he would seek a sign from its walls. Suddenly he sat erect, his dilated
pupils fixed upon a point above the chimney-piece--upon a small picture. It was a little water-color
sketch done by the hand of his versatile mother, and found among her belongings after her death.
Like her miniature and her letters, the picture had followed him through his life and had always
adorned the walls of his room. Often and over he had studied it until he knew by heart every
stroke of the brush that entered into its composition. Yet he stared at it now as if he had
never seen it before. Finally he took it down from its place on the chimney and held it in
his hands, gazing upon it in deep abstraction.

Underneath the picture was written its title: "Boston Harbor--Morning," and upon its back,

"For my little boy, Edgar, who must love Boston, the place of his birth, and where his mother
found her best and most sympathetic friends."

The picture gave him the sign! With rising excitement he decided that it must be accepted.
To Boston, of course, he would go. Boston, the place of his birth and where his angel mother
had found her "best, most sympathetic friends."

He would get away as early the next morning as possible, he told himself. He would waste no
time in goodbyes, for, he remembered with some bitterness, there were few to say goodbye to.
The boys were all off at college again, now that the holidays were over, and as for Myra, she
had quickly consoled herself and was already a wife! He had addressed some reproachful verses
to her as a bride; then dismissed her from his thoughts.

He arose and placed the picture carefully in the trunk with the rest of his treasures and then
went to bed to fall into the easy slumber of one whose mind is well made up.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few days later Edgar Poe had looked with delight and ineffable emotion upon the real Boston
Harbor, with its rocky little islets and its varied shipping and its busy wharves, and--for
him--its suggestions of one in Heaven.

CHAPTER XIII.

Upon his arrival in Boston, our errant knight, before setting out upon his quest for the Fame
and Fortune to whose service he was sworn, spent some hours in wandering about the old town,
with mind open to the quickening influences of historic association and eye to the irregular,
picturesque beauty about him.

It was one of those rare days that come sometimes in the month of February when, though according
to the callendar it should be cold, there is a warmth in the sunshine that seems borrowed from
Spring. Tired out by his tramp, young Edgar at length sat down upon a bench in the Common,
under an elm, great of girth and wide-spreading. The sunshine fell pleasantly upon him, through
the bare branches. Roundabout were other splendid, but now bare elms and he sat gazing upward
into their sturdy brown branches and dreamily picturing to himself the beauty of these goodly
trees clothed in the green vesture of summer. Suddenly, by a whimsical sequence of suggestion,
the pleasure he felt in the sunshine of February as it reached him under the tree in Boston
Common, vividly called to mind the refreshing coolness of the shade of the elms, in full leaf,
as he, a little lad of six, had walked the streets of old Stoke-Newington for the first time.

There was little relation between that first and this present parting with the Allans, yet
in his mind they became inseparably connected. He recalled his happiness in his first essays
at composition, made at the Manor School, and told himself that, though he did not know it
at the time, that was the first step toward his life work. He was now, here in Boston, the
city of his birth, about to take the second; for the hour had arrived when his work would be
given to the world!

Across his knees he held the box containing his precious manuscripts. He arose from the bench
and turning toward the lower end of the Common, walked, with brisk, hopeful step down town,
in the direction of a well-known publishing house whose location he had already ascertained.

Edgar Poe had known sorrow, real and imaginary; he was now to have his first meeting with Disappointment,
bitter and grim.

Of all the persons who had ever seen his work, every one had been warm in its praise--everyone
saving John Allan only. Some had been positively glowing. True, they had not been publishers,
yet among them there had been gentlemen and ladies of taste and culture. But here was a different
matter. Here was a personage with whom he had not reckoned, but who was the door, as it were,
through which his work must pass into the world. He was unmistakably a personage. His bearing,
though modest, spoke of power. His dress, though unobtrusive, was in the perfect taste which
only the prosperous can achieve and maintain. His features were cast in the mold of the well-bred.
He was past middle age and his naturally fine countenance was beautiful with the ennobling
lines which time leaves upon the face of the seeker after truth. He was courteous--most Bostonians
and many publishers are. He was sympathetic. He was undoubtedly intellectual, but the eyes
that regarded through big, gold-rimmed spectacles, the romantic beauty, the prominent brow
and the distinguished air of the sweet-voiced youth before him, wore a not only thoughtful,
but something more--a distinctly shrewd and practical expression. In them was no awe of the
bare mention of "original poetry."

He took the little rolls of manuscript into his strong, and at the same time smooth and well-shapen
hands, and drew them out to their full length with the manner of one who handled as good every
day. He cast his eyes rapidly down the sheets--too rapidly, it seemed to the poet--with a not
unkind, yet critical air, while the sensitive youth before him turned red and white, hot and
cold, by turns, and learned something of the horrors of the Inquisition.

It was really but a very short space, but to the boy who seemed suspended between a life and
a death sentence, it was an age.

Finally, he experienced something like a drowning sensation while he heard a voice that barely
penetrated the flood of deep waters that was rolling over his head, saying words that were
intended to be kind about the work showing promise, in spite of an absence of marketable value.

"Marketable value?" Heavens! Was he back in John Allan's counting house? What could the man
mean? It was as literature, not as merchandize that he wanted his poetry to be judged!

In his dismay, he stammered something of the sort, only to be told that when his poetry was
made into a book it would become merchandize and it mattered not how good, as poetry--it might
be, the publisher could do nothing with it unless as merchandize it would probably be valuable too.

Then--he had been politely bowed out, with his package still under his arm!

During the few minutes he had spent in the publisher's office the sky had become overcast and
a biting east wind had blown up from the river; but the change in the outside world was as
nothing to that within him. He had not known how large a part of himself was his dream of becoming
a poet. It now seemed to him that it was all of him--had from the beginning of his life been
all of him. Since those old days at Stoke-Newington, he had been building--building--building--this
castle in the air; now, at one fell blow, the whole fabric was laid in ruin!

Weakness seized his limbs and deep dejection his spirits. His life might as well come to an
end for there was nothing left for him to live for. How indeed, was he to live when the only
work he knew how to do had "no marketable value?" The money with which Mrs. Allan supplied
him, before he left home--"to give him a start"--would soon be exhausted. What if he should
not be able to make more?

Though he was in the city of his birth, he found himself an absolute stranger. If any of those
who had been sympathetic friends to his mother were left, he had no idea who or where they were.

He went back to the lodgings he had engaged to a night of bitter, sleepless tossing.

But with the new day, youth and hope asserted themselves. He decided that he would not accept
as final the verdict of any one publisher, though that one stood at the head of the list. With
others, however, it was just the same; and another night of even greater wretchedness followed.

Upon his third day in Boston (he felt that he had been there a year!) he wandered aimlessly
about, spirit broken, ambition gone. Finally, in Washington Street, he discovered, upon a small
door, a modest sign bearing the legend:

"Calvin F.S. Thomas. Printer."

With freshly springing hope, he entered the little shop and was received by a pale, soft-eyed,
sunken-chested and somewhat threadbare youth of about his own age, who in reply to his inquiry,
announced himself as "Mr. Thomas."

Between these two boys, as they stood looking frankly into each other's eyes, that mysterious
thing which we call sympathy, which like the wind "bloweth where it listeth and no man knoweth
whence it cometh or whither it goeth," sprang instantly into being. The one found himself without
his usual diffidence declaring himself a poet in search of a publisher, and the other was at
once alert with interest.

Calvin Thomas had but just--timorously, for he was poor as well as young--set up his little
shop, hoping to build up a trade as a printer. To be a publisher had not entered into his wildest
imaginings--much less a publisher for a poet! But he was, like his visitor, a dreamer, and
like him ambitious. Why should he not be a publisher as well as a printer? The poet had not
his manuscripts with him, but offered to recite some extracts, which he did, with glowing voice
and gesture--explaining figures of speech and allusions as he went along.

Edgar Poe sat easily upon a high stool in the little shop. His dress was handsome and, as always,
exquisite in its neatness and taste. His whole appearance and bearing were marked by an "air"
which deeply impressed the young printer who had promptly fallen under the spell of his personal
charm. He had laid his hat upon the desk, baring the glossy brown ringlets that clustered about
his large, pale brow. His clear-cut features were mobile and eager; his dark grey eyes full
of life. His voice had a wonderful musical quality, becoming passionate when, as at present,
his feeling was deeply aroused.

His poetry, recited thus, gained much of distinction. Its crudities would have been lost, to
a great extent, even upon a critic. But Thomas was no critic. He was simply a dreamy, half-educated
youth with a mind open to the beautiful and the romantic. The flights of the poet's fancy did
not seem to him obscure or too fantastic. They admitted him to a magic world in which he sat
spell-bound until silence brought him back to his tiny bare shop which seemed suddenly to have
been glorified.

"It is wonderful--wonderful!" he breathed.

He began to picture himself as not only sharing the wealth, but the fame which the publication
of these gems was bound to bring. But he had to explain that he was poor, and that he could
not bring out the poems without financial aid. The money which had been given Edgar to set
out in the world with, was already dwindling, but he managed to subscribe a sum which Thomas
declared would be sufficient, with the little he himself could add, for the printing of a modest
edition, in a very modest garb.

CHAPTER XIV.

In the Allan mansion, in Richmond, there was a stillness that was oppressive. No young foot-falls
sounded upon the stair; no boyish laughter rang out in rooms or hall. There were handsome and
formal dinners occasionally, when some elderly, distinguished stranger was entertained, but
there were no more merry dancing parties, with old Cy playing the fiddle and calling the figures.

Frances Allan, fair and graceful still, though looking somewhat out of health and "broken,"
as her friends remarked to one another, trod softly about the stately rooms with no song on
her lip, no gladness in her step. Her husband was grown suddenly prematurely old and his speech
was less frequent and harsher than before. He was more immersed in business than ever and was
prospering mightily, but the fact seemed to bring him no satisfaction. Even the old servants
had lost much of their mirth. Their black faces were grown solemn and their tread heavy. They
looked with awe upon their mistress when, as frequently happened, they saw her quietly enter
"Marse Eddie's" room and close the door behind her.

In that room and there alone, the fair, gentle, woful creature gave free reign to the grief
of her stricken mother-heart. The room was kept just as her boy had left it, for she constantly
hoped against hope that he would return. Hers was the aching, pent-up grief of a mother whose
child is dead, yet she is denied the solace of mourning.

Here was the bed which had pillowed his dear, sunny ringlets. Here were his favorite chair--his
desk--his books. In a little trunk against the wall were his toys with some of the pretty clothes
made with her own fingers, in which it had been her pride to dress him when he was a wee laddie.
How she loved to finger and fondle them!

Fifteen years she had been his mother--now this was all she had! Somewhere in the same world
with her he was living, was walking about, talking, eating, sleeping; yet he was dead to her!
Oh, if she could only know that he was happy, that he was well, that he lacked nothing in the
way of creature comfort; if she could know where he was, picture him at work or in his leisure
hours, it would not be so hard to bear.

But she knew nothing--nothing--save that he had gone to Boston.

One letter she had had from him there--such a dear one!--she knew it by heart. In it he had
called her "Mother" and assured her of his constant love and thought of her. He had arrived
safely, he said, and would soon be busy making his living. Boston was a fine city and full
of interest to him. When his ship came in he was going to have her come on and pay him a visit
there. He would write again when he had anything worth telling.

Days had passed--weeks--and no word had come. Had he failed to obtain employment? Had he gone
further--to New York, perhaps, or Philadelphia? She did not know. Oh, if she could but know!

Was he ill? Fear clutched her heart and made her faint. The suspense was terrible, and she
had no one to go to for sympathy--no one. She dared not mention her anxiety to her husband;
it made him furious. He could not stand the sound of Eddie's name, even--her darling, beautiful
Eddie! Her arms felt so empty they ached.

Winter was passing. The garden that Eddie loved so dearly was coming to life. The crocuses
for which he always watched with so much interest were come and gone. The jonquils were in
bloom and the first sweet hyacinths, blue as turquoises, she had gathered and put in his room.
It cheered her to see them there. Somehow, they made the room look more "ready" than usual--as
if he might come home that day.

He did not come, but something else did. A letter with the Boston post-mark she had so longed
to see, and a small, flat package addressed to her in his dear hand. She broke the seal of
the letter first--she was so hungry for the sight of the familiar, "Mother dear," and to know
how he fared.

It was a short letter, but, ah, the blessed relief of knowing he was well and happy! And prospering--prospering
famously--for he told her he was sending her the first copy off the press of his book of poems!
It was a very little book, he said, but it was a beginning. He felt within him that he would
have much bigger and better things to show her erelong. For the present, he was hard at work
making ready for a revised and enlarged edition of his book, if one should be called for.

There was a jubilant note in the letter that delighted her and communicated itself to her own
spirits. She eagerly tore the wrappings from the package, and pressed the contents against
her lips and her heart. It was but a slender volume, cheaply printed and bound, but it was
her boy's first published work and a wonderful thing in her eyes. She already saw him rich
and famous--saw him come home to her crowned with honor and success--vindicated.

She turned the pages of the book. He had written upon the fly-leaf some precious words of presentation
to her. She kissed them rapturously and passed on to the title-page:

"Tamerlane and Other Poems. By a Bostonian. Boston: Calvin F.S. Thomas, Printer."

She was still gloating over her treasure when the brass knocker on the front door was sounded,
and a minute later Myra Royster--now Mrs. Shelton--was announced. Taking the book with her,
she tripped downstairs, singing as she went, and burst in upon Myra as she sat in state in
the drawing-room, in all her bridal finery.

Myra noticed as she kissed her, her glowing cheeks and shining eyes.

"How well you are looking today, Mrs. Allan," she exclaimed.

"It is happiness, dear. I've just had such a delightful letter from Eddie, and this darling
little book. It is his poems, Myra!"

Myra was all interest. "To think of knowing a real live author!" she exclaimed. "I was sure
Eddie would be famous some day, but had no idea it would come so soon."

"Don't you wish you had waited for him?" teased Mrs. Allan, laughing happily.

They chatted over the wonderful news until nearly dinner-time, and after they had parted Mrs.
Allan sat at the window watching for her husband to come home that she might impart it to him
at the earliest moment possible. But when at last he appeared she put off the great moment
until after dinner, and then when he was comfortably smoking a fragrant cigar she approached
him timidly and placed the letter and the book in his lap without a word.

"What's all this?" he questioned sharply.

She made no reply, but hovered about his chair, too excited to trust herself to speak.

He picked up the letter and read it with a deepening frown, then opened the book and ran his
eyes hurriedly down one or two of its pages. At length he spoke:

"So this is the way he's wasting his time and, I dare say, his money too. Will the boy ever
amount to anything, I wonder?"

The happiness in Frances Allan's face gave place to quick distress.

"Oh, John," she cried, "Don't you think it amounts to anything for a boy of eighteen to have
written and published a book of poetry?"

"Poetry? This stuff is bosh--utter bosh!"

For the first time in her life, there was defiance in her gentle face. Her clinging air was
discarded. She raised her head and with flashing eyes and rising color, faced him.

"You think that, because you cannot understand or appreciate it," she retorted, with spirit.
"Neither do I understand it, but I can see that it is wonderful poetry. If he can do this at
eighteen I have no doubt he will make himself and us famous before many years are past!"

Her husband's only reply was an astonished and piercing stare which she met without flinching,
then turned and swept from the room, leaving him with a feeling of surprise to see that she
was so tall.

Her self assertion was but momentary. As she ascended the stair and entered Eddie's room, all
the elasticity was gone from her step, all the brightness from her cheeks and eyes and, still
clasping her boy's letter and book to her heart, she threw herself upon his bed and burst into
a passion of tears.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meantime, the elms on Boston Common were clothed with tender April green and under foot sweet,
soft grass was springing. In this inspiring cathedral walked Edgar Poe, his pale face and deep
eyes, passionate with the worship of beauty that filled his soul, lifted to the greening arches
above him, his sensitive ears entranced with the bird-music that fluted through the cool aisles.
His mind was teeming with new poems in the making and with visions of what he should do if
his book should sell.

But it did not sell. The leading magazines acknowledged its receipt in their review columns,
but with the merest mention, which was exceedingly disconcerting. It was discussed (but with
disappointment) for a week by his friends at home and at the University, to whom he sent copies.
Then was forgotten.

And now its author was, for the first time within his recollection, beginning to feel the pinch
of poverty. His money was almost gone and he saw no immediate hope of getting more. He moved
to the cheapest boarding house he could find but he did not mind that so much as the prospect
that faced him of soon beginning to present a shabby appearance in public. His shoes were already
showing wear, and he found that to keep his linen as immaculate as he had always been accustomed
to have it cost money and he actually had to economize in the quantity of clothing he had laundered.
This to his proud and fastidious nature was humiliating in the extreme.

He and Calvin Thomas held frequent colloquies as to ways and means of giving his book wider
circulation. He visited the offices of the several newspapers of the town in the hope of getting
work in the line of journalism--reporting, reviewing, story-writing, anything in the way of
the only business or profession for which he felt that he had any aptitude or preparation;
but without success.

At length the sign of "Calvin F.S. Thomas, Printer" had suddenly disappeared from the little
shop in Washington Street, and a dismal "To Let," was in its place.

At about the same time Mrs. Blanks lost the handsome, quiet young gentleman, who had evidently
seen better days, from her unpretentious lodging house, and the walks under the elms in Boston
Common were no longer trodden by The Dreamer from Virginia.

CHAPTER XV.

Where was Edgar Poe?--

Twice since he shook the dust of Richmond joyfully from his feet, fair Springtide had visited
the terraced garden of the Allan home. Twice the green had come forth, first like a misty veil,
then like a mantle enveloping its trees and its shrubs, its arbors and trellises; twice the
procession of flowers, led by the crocuses in their petticoats of purple and yellow, had tripped
from underground; twice the homing birds had built in the myrtles and among the snowy pear
and cherry blossoms and filled all the place with music. Twice, too, in this garden, the pageant
of spring and summer and sunset-hued autumn had passed, the birds had flown away again and
winter snows had covered all with their whiteness and their silence.

And still the garden's true-lover, the poet, The Dreamer, was a wanderer, where?--

Oh, beautiful "Ligeia," was it not your voice that now and again whispered in the tree-tops
and among the flowers? Could you not--did you not, bring news of the wanderer?

If she did, there was no human being to whom her language was intelligible, and the trees and
the flowers keep their secrets well.

Within the homestead there was little change save a deepening of the quietness that had fallen
upon it. In the master of the house there was no visible difference. There are some men who
seen from year to year seem as unchanging as the sphinx. It is only after a long period that
any difference in them can be detected and then they suddenly appear broken and aged. The fair
lady of the manor was as fair as ever, but with the pale, tremulous fairness of a late star
in the grey dawn of a new day in which it will have no part. Her bloom, her roundness, her
gaiety--all these were gone. She spent more time than ever in the room which, waiting for its
roving tenant, became more and more like a death chamber. The silence there was not now broken
by her sobs even, for it was with dry-eyed grief that she watched and waited for her boy, these
days--watched and waited and prayed. Ah, how she prayed for him, body and soul! Prayed that
wherever he might be, he might be kept from harm and strengthened to resist temptation.

Was it her agonized petitions that kept him to the straight and narrow path of duty during
those two years amid uncongenial surroundings and hard conditions?

Who knows?

Yet the chair and the desk and the books and the vases of fresh flowers on the mantel, and
the fire-wood resting on the shining andirons ready for a match, and the reading lamp with
trimmed wick and bright chimney on the table, and the canopied white bed still waited, in vain,
his coming.

Many months had passed since the name of Eddie had been spoken between husband and wife, but
though she held her peace, like Mary of old, like Mary too, she pondered many things in her
heart. He, loving her well, but having no aptitude for divining woman's ways, indulged in secret
satisfaction, for he took her silence to mean that she was coming to her senses, and regarding
the boy as he did. That she no longer importuned him to enquire into Edgar's whereabouts with
the intention of inviting him home was a source of especial relief to him.

Then, upon a day two years after she had triumphantly placed Eddie's book and letter in his
hands, it was his turn to bring her a letter.

"You see the bad penny has turned up again," he remarked, dryly.

She looked questioningly at the folded sheet. Its post-mark was Fortress Monroe and the hand-writing
was not familiar to her.

"What is it?" she asked.

"A letter from Dr. Archer. He's surgeon at the fort, you know. Read it. It is about Edgar."

With shaking hands and a blanched face she spread open the sheet. A nameless dread possessed
her. A letter about Eddie--not from him--and from a surgeon! For a moment darkness seemed to
descend upon her and she could not make out the characters before her. She pressed her hand
upon her heart. In sudden alarm, her husband rushed to a celaret nearby and brought out a decanter
of wine. Pouring a glass he pressed it to her lips.

"Eddie," she gasped, as soon as she could speak. "Is he well?"

In spite of John Allan's anxiety, he was irritated, and showed it.

"Pshaw, Frances!" he exclaimed. "I hoped you had forgotten the boy. Yes, he's well, and, I'm
glad to say, in a place where he is made to behave."

She calmed herself with an effort and began to read the letter. The story it told had a smack
of romance.

Dr. Archer had (he wrote) been called to the hospital in the fort to see a private soldier
by the name of Edgar A. Perry, who was down with fever. The patient spoke but little but the
Doctor was struck with his marked refinement of look and manner, and there was something familiar
to him about the prominent brow and full grey eyes, though the name was strange to him. His
attention was aroused and he could not rid himself of the impression that he had seen the young
man before. He mentioned the fact to some of the officers and found at once that his patient
was a subject of deep interest to them. They felt sure (they told him) that he had a story.
His polished manners and bright and cultivated conversation seemed to them incongruous with
the duties of a private soldier, and they laughingly said that they suspected they were entertaining
an angel unawares. Yet his duties were performed with the utmost faithfulness and efficiency.
He had never been heard to speak of himself or his past in a way which would throw any light
upon his history, and his reserve was of the kind which was bound to be respected. Dr. Archer
had grown (he wrote) more and more interested in his patient as he became better acquainted
with him, and being convinced that the young man had for some reason, gotten out of his proper
sphere, he determined to try and help him back to it.

By the time the young soldier was convalescent the Doctor had won his confidence and obtained
from him the confession that the name of Perry was an assumed one, and that he was none other
than Mr. Allan's adopted son, Edgar Poe, whom Dr. Archer had not seen since he was a small boy.

The discovery of his identity had greatly increased the good Doctor's interest and he and the
officers of the fort were of the opinion that as young Poe had made a model soldier (having
been promoted to the rank of sergeant-major, for good conduct) the best thing that could be
done for him was to secure his discharge and get him an appointment to West Point. This, Mr.
Allan could bring about, he thought, through men of influence whose friendship the Doctor knew
he enjoyed. Edgar had enlisted for five years. He had confessed that at the time he had been
almost upon the point of starvation and had turned to the army when every effort to find other
means of livelihood had failed.

The Doctor and other officers thought that it would be a great sacrifice to leave a young gentleman
of Edgar's abilities to three more years of such uncongenial life.

He was quite recovered and in accordance with a promise made the Doctor, was writing to Mr.
Allan at that moment.

"Did Eddie's letter come too?" Mrs. Allan asked, as she finished the one in her hand.

Without a word, her husband handed it over to her. In it Edgar expressed much contrition for
the trouble which his larger experience in life told him he had cost his foster-father, and
asked his forgiveness. He also asked that Mr. Allan would follow the suggestion of Dr. Archer,
and apply for a discharge from the army for him, and an appointment to West Point.

He had not written his "Mother" in the past because he had unfortunately nothing to tell which
he believed could give her any pleasure, but he sent her his undying love.

Frances Allan looked through wet lashes into her husband's face, but her eyes were shining
through the tears.

"Oh, John," she said breathlessly, "You will have him to come and make us a little visit before
he goes to West Point, won't you?"

"I'll have nothing to do with him!" was the emphatic reply. "He seems to be getting along very
well where he is. Let him stick it out!"

Feeling how vain her pleadings would be, yet not willing to give up hope, she wept, she prayed,
she hung upon John Allan's neck. She brought every argument that starved motherhood could conceive
to bear upon him.

To think that Eddie was in Virginia--just down at Old Point! The cup of joy was too near her
lips to let it pass without a mighty effort. But finally she gave up and shrank within herself,
drooping like the palest of lilies.

Then came a day when a stillness such as it had never known before hung over the Allan home.
The garden was at its fairest. The halls and the drawing-rooms, with their rich furnishings
and works of art were as beautiful as ever; but there was not even a bereaved mother, with
an expression on her face like that of Mary at the foot of the cross, to tread the lonely floors.
The luxurious rooms were quite, quite empty--all save one--an upper chamber, where upon a stately
carved and canopied bed lay all that was mortal of Frances Allan, like a lily indeed, when
pitiless storm has laid it low!

The learned doctors who had attended her had given long Latin names to her malady. In their
books there was mention of no such ailment as heartbreak, and so happily, the desolate man
left to preside in lonely state, over the goodly roof-tree which her presence had filled and
made sweet and satisfying, was spared a suspicion even, of the real cause of her untimely end.

His one consuming desire for the present was that all things should be done just as she would
wish, and so--all minor bitternesses drowned in the one overwhelming bitterness of his loss--he
scribbled a few hurried lines to Edgar Poe acquainting him with the sad news and telling him
to apply for a leave and come "home" at once.

But the mails and travel were slow in those days, and when the young soldier reached Richmond
the last, sad rites were over, and for the third time in his brief career the grave had closed
over a beautiful woman who had loved him and upon whose personality had been based in part,
that ideal of woman as goddess or angel before which his spirit throughout his life, with all
its vicissitudes, bowed down. As the lumbering old stage crawled along the road toward Richmond,
he lived over again the years spent in the sunshine of her presence. Her death was a profound
shock to him. How strange that one so fair, so merry, so bubbling with life should cease to
be! Would it always be his fate, he wondered, to love where untimely death was lying in wait?

Upon the night when he reached "home" and every night till, his furlough over, he returned
to his post of duty at Fortress Monroe, he lay in his old room with his old household gods--his
books in their shelves, his pictures on the walls, his desk and deep arm-chair, and other objects
made dear by daily use in their accustomed places, and "the lamplight gloating o'er," around
him. He was touched at the sweet, familiar look of it all and at the thoughtfulness of himself
of which he saw signs everywhere. Could it be that he had been two years an exile from these
homelike comforts or had it been only one of his dreams? In spite of the void her absence made,
it was good to be back--good after his wanderings to come into his own again.

In the hush and loneliness of those few days under the same roof, the grief-stricken man and
youth, their pride broken by their common sorrow, came nearer together than they ever had been
before. It seemed that the gentle spirit of her whom each had loved hovered about them, binding
them to each other by invisible, but sacred, cords. John Allan spoke to the players' son in
tones that were almost fatherly and with quick response, the tender-hearted youth became again
the Edgar of the days before reminders of his dependence upon charity had opened his eyes to
the difference between a real and an adopted father.

Under this reconciling influence, the youth poured out expressions of penitence for the past
and made resolutions for the future and Mr. Allan promised to apply for the desired appointment
to West Point, but added that thereafter, he should consider himself relieved of all responsibility
concerning Edgar.

This blunt and ungracious assurance strained the bond between the adopted father and son; the
promised letter of application to the Secretary of War, ruthlessly shattered it. That his indulgencies
during his year at the University of Virginia, so freely and earnestly repented, should have
been exposed in the letter seemed to the boy unnecessary and cruel, but the man who had been
fifteen years his father, the husband of her over whom the grave had but just closed and who
had always loved him--Edgar--as an own and only son, had seen fit to add to the declaration,

"He left me in consequence of some gambling debts at the University," a disclaimer of even
a sentimental interest in him!

"Frankly, Sir," the letter said, "I do declare that Edgar Poe is no relation to me whatever;
that I have many in whom I have taken an active interest in order to promote theirs, with no
other feeling than that every man is my care, if he be in distress."

Edgar Poe duly presented the letter, but the bitterness which during his brief visit home had
been put to sleep, raised its head and robbed him of all pleasure in his anticipated change
and of much of the incentive to put forth his best effort in it. He felt that the result of
this ungracious letter must be to blot the new leaf which he had so ardently desired to turn
with shadows of his past which no effort of his own could entirely obliterate.

For the soreness of finding himself disowned as Mr. Allan's son--this time publicly, in a manner--he
found somewhat of balm in the letter of cordial praise addressed to the Honorable Secretary
of War in his behalf, by the father of his old friend, Jack Preston. Mr. Preston described
him as a young gentleman of genius who had already gained reputation for talents and attainments
at the University of Virginia, and added,

"I would not write this recommendation if I did not believe he would remunerate the Government
at some future day by his services and talents, for whatever may be done for him."

Happily for the, at times, morbidly, sensitive youth, he had soon forgotten the sting caused
by the letter in a return to the dreams which he regarded as not only the chief joy but the
chief business of his life; for though he was preparing himself for the profession of a soldier,
he had never for a moment, forsworn the Muse of Poetry. For a whole year before being transferred
to Fortress Monroe he had been stationed at Fort Moultrie, in Charleston harbor. There his
wonderful dream-lady, "Ligeia," had seemed especially near to him, and often, when the day's
work was done and he recognized her voice in the music of the waves or felt her kiss in the
soft, southern air, blown across spicey islets, he would up and away with her across the world,
on the moon's silver track; or on nights when no moon came up out of the sea, would wander
with her through the star-sown sky.

There was one fair star that invited his fancy with peculiar insistence. It seemed to beckon
to him with the flashes of its beams. He questioned "Ligeia" of it and she told him that it
was none other than Al Aaraaf, the great star discovered by Tycho Brahe, which after suddenly
appearing and shining for a few nights with a brilliancy surpassing that of Jupiter, disappeared
never to be seen again; never except by him--The Dreamer--to whom it was given not only to
gaze upon it from the far earth, but, with her as his guide, to visit it and to explore its
fairy landscape where the spirits of lost sculptures enjoyed immortality.

The result of this flight of fancy to a magical world was the poem, "Al Aaraaf."

He spent the interim between his honorable discharge from the army and his entrance at West
Point in a happy visit to Baltimore, where he made the acquaintance of his father's kindred
and succeeded in publishing the new poem, with a revised edition of the old ones.

For the first time, his work appeared under his own signature:

"Al Aaraaf, Tamerlane and Minor Poems. By Edgar A. Poe."

The new poem was unintelligible to the critics--but what of that? he asked himself. One of
his optimistic moods was upon him. He despised the critics for their lack of perception and
as he held the slim volume in his hands and gazed upon that, to him, wondrous title-page, his
countenance shone as though it had caught the reflection of the magic star itself. What mattered
all the wounds, all the woes of his past life? He had entered into a land where dreams came true!

For the first time, too, his work received recognition as poetry, in the literary world. It
was but a nod, yet it was a beginning; and it pleased him to think that this first nod of greeting
as a poet came to him from Boston, where his mother had found "her best, most sympathetic friends."
Before publishing his new book he had sent some extracts from it to Mr. John Neal, Editor of
the Yankee and Boston Literary Gazette, who promptly gave them a place in his paper, with some
kind words commending them to lovers of "genuine poetry."

"He is entirely a stranger to me," wrote the Boston editor, of the twenty-year-old poet, "but
with all his faults, if the remainder of Al Aaraaf and Tamerlane are as good as the body of
the extracts here given, he will deserve to stand high--very high--in the estimation of the
shining brotherhood."

In a burst of gratitude the happy poet wrote to Mr. Neal his thanks for these "very first words
of encouragement," he had received.

"I am young," he confided to this earliest friend in the charmed world of letters, "I am young--not
yet twenty--am a poet if deep worship of all beauty can make me one--and wish to be so in the
common meaning of the word."

CHAPTER XVI.

Upon a dark and drizzling November night of the year 1830, four cadets of West Point Academy
sat around a cosy open fire in Room 28, South Barracks, spinning yarns for each other's amusement.

One of them--the one with the always handsome and scholarly, at times soft and romantic, but
tonight, dare-devil face, was easily recognizable as Edgar the Goodfellow, frequently appearing
in the quite opposite character of Edgar the Dreamer, and commonly known as Edgar Poe. His
fellow cadets had dubbed him, "the Bard." Two of this young man's companions were his room-mates
in Number 28, "Old P," and "Gibs," and the third was a visitor from North Barracks.

Taps had sounded sometime since, and the Barracks were supposed to be wrapt in slumber, but
for these young men the evening had just begun. Several hours had elapsed since supper and
it is a well-known fact that there is never a time or a season when a college boy is not ready
to eat. Someone suggested that politeness demanded they should entertain their guest with a
fowl and a bottle of brandy from Benny Haven's shop, and proposed that they should draw straws
to determine which of the three hosts should fetch the necessary supplies. They had no money,
but the accommodating "Bard" agreed to sacrifice his blanket in the cause of hospitality; and
armed with that and several pounds of tallow candles, "Gibs," upon whom the lot had fallen,
set forth to run the blockade to Benny's. This was a risky business, for the vigilance of Lieutenant
Joseph Locke, one of the instructors in tactics who was also a sort of supervisor of the morals
and conduct of cadets, was hard to elude. As one of the Bard's own effusions ran,

    "John Locke was a very great name;
      Joe Locke was a greater, in short,
    The former was well known to Fame,
      The latter well known to Report."

The best that Benny would give, in addition to the bottle, for the blanket and candles, was
an old gander, whose stentorian and tell-tale voice he obligingly hushed by chopping off its
head. Under cover of the darkness and the storm, "Gibs" succeeded in safely returning to the
Barracks but not until his hands and his shirt were reeking with the gander's gore. "The Bard,"
who was anxiously awaiting the result of the foraging expedition ventured outside to meet him.
When he beheld the prize, he exclaimed, in a whisper,

"Good for you! But you look like a murderer caught red-handed."

His own words, almost before they left his lips, suggested to him an idea for a mammoth hoax--the
best they had tried yet, he told himself. He hastily, and in whispers, unfolded it to "Gibs,"
whom he found all sympathy, then returned alone, to his friends in Number 28, reporting that
he had seen nothing of their messenger, and expressing fear that he had met with an accident.

All began to watch the door with anxiety. After some minutes it burst open and "Gibs," who
had carefully laid the gander down outside, staggered into the room, appearing to be very drunk
and brandishing a knife, which he had rubbed against the fowl's bleeding neck. "Old P." and
the visitor from North Barracks, too frightened for words, sat as though rooted to their chairs,
while "the Bard" sprang to his feet and in a horror-stricken voice, exclaimed,

"Heavens, Gibs! What has happened?"

"Joe Locke--Joe Locke--" gasped "Gibs."

"Well, what of Joe Locke? Speak man!"

"He won't report me any more. I've killed him!"

"Pshaw!" exclaimed "the Bard," in disgust. "This is another of your practical jokes, and you
know it."

"I thought you would say that, so I cut off his head and brought it along. Here it is!"

With that he quickly opened the door and picked up the gander and, whirling it around his head,
dashed it violently at the one candle which was thus knocked over and extinguished, leaving
the room in darkness but for a few smouldering embers on the hearth, and with the gruesome
addition to the company of what two of those present believed to be the severed head of Lieutenant
Locke.

The visitor with one bound was out of the room through the window, and made good his escape
to his own quarters in North Barracks, where he spread the astounding news that "Gibs" had
murdered Joe Locke; it was certainly so, for his head was then in Number 28, South Barracks.

"Old P." nearly frozen with fright, did not move from his place, and it was with some difficulty
that "the Bard" and "Gibs" brought him back to a normal condition and induced him to assist
in preparing the fowl which had played the part of Joe Locke's head, in the little comedy,
for the belated feast--which was merrily partaken of, but without the guest of honor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Edgar Poe had entered West Point in July, but hardly had its doors closed behind him when his
optimism gave place to wretchedness and he began to feel that his appointment was a mistake.
He had taken a fine stand in his classes, but he recognized at once a state of things most
unpleasant for him for which he had not been prepared. As in his schooldays in Richmond and
at the University, a number of the boys had withheld their intimacy from him on account of
caste feeling, so now at West Point he found history repeating itself, but with a difference.
In Richmond and at the University it had been as the child of the stage and as a dependent
upon charity, that the line was drawn against him. With the aristocratic cadets, it was because
of his promotion from the ranks. Yet the very experience which brought their contempt upon
him gave him a sense of superiority that made their manner toward him the harder to bear, and
drilling with green boys after having been two years a soldier, he found most irksome.

While the snubbing to which he was subjected was general enough to make his situation extremely
unpleasant, however, it was by no means unanimous. "Gibs" and "Old P." his convivial room-mates
in Number 28, took him to their hearts at once, and he really liked them when he was in the
mood for companions of their type, but they wore cruelly upon his nerves when the divine fire
within him was burning. So indeed would any room-mates, for at home always, and most of the
time at the University, one of his chief comforts had been his own room where he could shut
out all the world and be alone with his dreams.

There was, at West Point, nothing like a repetition of his course at the University. The trouble
which his attack of gambling fever had gotten him into had proved a severe but wholesome lesson,
and he had let cards alone at once and forever. In his ignorance of his own family history,
he did not know that for one of his blood, the only safety lay in total abstinence from the
cup that cheers, but the intense and instantaneous excitement he found a single glass of wine
produced in his brain--an excitement amounting almost to madness--was in itself a warning to
him, and kept him strictly within the bounds of moderation.

There were times, however, when with a chicken and a bottle of brandy, purchased secretly from
old Benny, and smuggled, at great hazard, into the room, Edgar Goodfellow could, with zest
join his rolicking room-mates in making merry, and in spite of his strict adherence to the
single glass, generally out-do them at their own games.

But there was no place in that room for Edgar the Dreamer; and between the spirit-dulling routine
and discipline of classes and drills with youths for the most part younger than himself and
inferior in mentality and cultivation, but who bore themselves as his superiors, and the impossibility
of an hour of solitude, the lovely "Ligeia" became unreal and remote. He could no longer catch
the sounds of her voice, or feel her presence near. His muse, too, had become shy and difficult
and when she deigned to visit him at all, it was generally in the quite new character of jester
in cap and bells, under whose influence he dashed off humorous and satirical squibs at the
expense of the professors and students, of which the lines on Lieutenant Locke are a specimen.
These he recited for the benefit of the little parties that gathered in Number 28, by whom
they were regarded as master-pieces of wit and were circulated through the school.

But he took no real pleasure in this perversion of his poetical gift, and feeling his soul
cramped and cabined by the uncongeniality of his surroundings, he soon became convinced that
West Point was not the place for him, and that he should leave it as soon as possible. He wrote
Mr. Allan of his dissatisfaction--begging his assistance in securing a discharge. At no time
would this request have been granted but it came at the most inopportune moment imaginable.

Some time before, certain ladies in Richmond who professed "to know the signs," had given out
the interesting news that Mr. Allan was "taking notice." True it was that though such a thing
had seemed impossible, his stocks were higher and more precisely folded than ever, his broadcloth
was of a finer texture, his knee-buckles shone with a brighter lustre, but the most marked
change in him was a certain springiness of gait altogether new to his silk-stockinged calves,
and almost youthful, and a pleased expression of the hitherto stern eyes and mouth which made
his usually solemn vizage look as if it might break out into smiles at any moment.

The signs, the ladies said, dated from the arrival of at "Powhatan," the country seat of the
Mayo family, just below Richmond, of a fair guest--Miss Louisa Patterson, of Philadelphia.
This lady was no longer young, according to the severe standards of that time of early marriages
and correspondingly early "old-maidenhood," but so much the better, as she was therefore of
suitable age for the elderly though spruce and prosperous widower. She was, withal, a decidedly
personable woman with the elegant manners and conversation of the inner circles of the exclusive,
stately society in which she had been nurtured--just the woman, the fair prophetesses said,
to rule over John Allan (for everybody knew that a man who ruled his first wife was invariably
ruled by his second) and to preside with distinction and taste over his drawing-room and his
board. She was as suitable, in fact for the wife of ripe age as the flower-like Frances had
been for the wife of youth. So Richmond gave its unqualified approval.

Nothing could have been more out of harmony with the sound of the "mellow wedding bells" pealing
for this happy pair, than a reminder of the first wife of the bridegroom in the shape of a
letter from Edgar Poe.

When Poe had entered West Point his foster-father had drawn a long breath of relief. He believed
that the idle youth with whom his dead wife had been so strangely infatuated was off his hands
for good and all. When the letter came to jar upon his new dream of love he was irritated,
and in his brief mention of the matter to his bride it was very apparent, and left upon her
mind the impression that Frances Allan must have been a weak and silly creature indeed, to
have fancied an idle, ungrateful boy who spent his time drinking, gambling and scribbling ridiculous
poetry. And the son of an actress! It would have been impossible for such a low character and
herself to have remained under the same roof for a day, she was sure, and she told her husband
so--imparting to her tone somewhat of the pity she felt to think of his having been yoked for
years to such a morally frail specimen of womanhood as she conceived the first Mrs. Allan to
have been.

So Mr. Allan's letter of refusal to help Edgar escape the life that was growing more and more
irksome to him was as decided as it was brief. But Edgar was unshaken in his resolve to get
away as soon as possible. In the meantime, finding no outlet for his restless creative faculty
that would not remain inactive though there was no opportunity for its satisfaction, he gave
himself over by turns, to deepest dejection and wildest hilarity.

Finally, as no other relief was at hand, he decided to force his discharge by deliberate and
systematic neglect of the rules. The plan succeeded so well that before the session was out
he was expelled from the Academy for disobedience of orders and failure to attend roll-calls,
classes and guard-duty.

CHAPTER XVII.

Happily, the restraints of the Academy and his environment there, instead of crushing out young
Edgar's impulse to dream and to put his dreams into writing (as a longer period of the same
restraints and conditions might have done) had but quickened and strengthened these very impulses,
and he had now but one wish, one aspiration in regard to his newly acquired freedom, and that
was to dedicate it to the art of literature which had become more and more his passion and
his mistress, and which since he had given up all idea of the army, he was resolved to make
his sole profession.

His first step toward this end was to arrange, before leaving New York, for a new edition of
his already published work, adding some hitherto unpublished poems which even in the unsympathetic
atmosphere of Number 28 South Barracks had been undergoing a refining process in the seething
crucible of his brain.

The money for this venture dropped into his lap, as it were, for when the new friends in whom
he had confided passed the word around that "the Bard" was going to get out a book of poetry,
the cadets (in anticipation of a collection of ditties cleverly hitting off the peculiarities
and characteristics of the professors) to a man, subscribed in advance--at seventy-five cents
per copy. In appreciation of their recognition of his genius, and little guessing what manner
of book they expected it to be, "the Bard" gratefully dedicated the new volume "To the United
States Corps of Cadets."

Happy it was for him that he was not present to hear those he had thus honored set up their
throats in unanimous expressions of disgust when--the dedication leaf turned--they were confronted
by a reprint of "Tamerlane" and "Al Aaraaf," with the shorter poems, "To Helen," "A Pæan,"
"Israfel," "Fairy-Land," and other "rubbish," as they promptly pronounced the entire contents
of the book.

"Listen, fellows!" said one of the disgusted lot, with the open volume in his hand.

As he finished this opening stanza of what posterity has ranked as one of the most exquisite
lyrics in the English tongue, but which was received by the audience of cadets with guffaws
of derision, the reader closed the book with a snap, and dashed it across the room and into
the open fire.

"Did you ever hear crazier rubbish?" he asked, with contempt. "Highway robbery, I call it,
to send us such stuff for our good, hard cash!"

"The joke's on us this time, and no doubt about it," said the also chagrinned, but more philosophically
inclined "Gibs." "The Bard means well, though, and no doubt he thinks the stuff is poetry."

"Old P." solemnly tapped his forehead with his forefinger.

"Something wrong here," he remarked, ominously, "I suspected it all along."

The business of getting his book published dispatched, the poet's thoughts turned lovingly
toward Richmond which he still called "home," and carpet-bag in hand and a package of copies
of his book which he intended as presents to his old chums under his arm, he set out upon the
journey thither.

The streets of New York had been cold and bleak but he told himself as he journeyed, that April
days at home were quite different. The grass would be already green upon the hillsides, many
of the trees in leaf, and the dear spring flowers in bloom. He pictured the ample comforts
of the Allan homestead, and of his own room in it, with its familiar furnishings. Of course
he had no idea of looking to Mr. Allan for support--his pen must give him that now--but during
the visit which he was going to make "at home" it would be pleasant to sleep once more in that
room with all of its associations, though many of these were with the blunders of a blinded youth.

As he thought of Mr. Allan and his last meeting with him, his heart softened. He would try
and keep their intercourse upon the friendly basis upon which his last sad visit home had placed
it; would as far as possible, put himself in his foster-father's place and see things as he
saw them.

How desolate the widowed man had seemed in the big, empty house during those chill, sorrow-stricken,
February days! No wonder he had sought escape from his desolation in another marriage--his
loneliness without the lovely little mother must have been unbearable. What was the new wife
like, he wondered? Was she like the lady of the manor he remembered? Could there be another
such gentle, tender, flower-like woman on earth?

In his unworldly, unpractical dreamer's soul it did not occur to him for one moment that her
existence might make him any less Mr. Allan's adopted son, or even that, with all the rooms
in the big house at her disposal, she might have taken a fancy to rearrange the one which,
from the time the house became Mr. Allan's property, had been "Eddie's room," and which had
so long stood ready for his occupancy--dedicated as it was to his own belongings.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last he was on the sacred soil!

How fair and comfortable the old homestead looked in its setting of greening lawn and flowering
garden, with the pleasant sunshine of the April afternoon over all! How cheerful--how ample--how
homelike!

He ran up the steps of the commodious front porch and was on the point of opening the door
when some impulse he could not define made him pause and, instead of turning the knob, announce
himself with a rap upon the shining brass knocker.

One of the old family servants whom he had known and loved from his infancy, and with whom
he had always been a pet, opened the door, and with beaming face and eager voice greeted him
with the enthusiastic hospitality of his kind--lifting up his voice and his hands in praise
to God that he was once more in this world permitted to look upon the face of "Marse Eddie."

The whilom young master of the house was equally, if less picturesquely, warm in his expressions
of pleasure at seeing the old man again, and gave him his carpet-bag with instructions to take
it to his room and to tell Mrs. Allan that he was there.

The venerable darkey's face fell. The "new Mistis" had "changed the house around some," he
explained, apologetically, and "Marse's Eddie's" things had been moved to one of the servants'
rooms, but "Marse Eddie's" old room was a guest chamber, and he "reckoned" that would be the
place to take the bag.

The visitor's whole manner changed at once--froze. The flush of pleasure died out of his face
and left it pale, cold and stern. A fierce and unreasonable rage possessed him. She had dismantled
the room that his little mother had arranged for him and sent his things to a servant's room!
Was this insult intentional, he wondered?

To his mind, his "little Mother" was so entirely the presiding genius of the place--he could
not realize the right of anyone, not even a "new mistis," to come in and "change the house around."

Cut to the quick, he directed the old butler to leave the bag where it was and to let Mrs.
Allan know that he was in the drawing-room.

No announcement could have given that lady greater surprise. She regarded Edgar's leaving West
Point after her husband's letter, as direct disobedience, and his presenting himself at her
door as the height of impertinence. Something of this was in the frigid dignity with which
she received him--standing, and drawn up to the full height of her imposing figure.

She had never been within speaking distance of anyone drunk to the point of intoxication, but,
somehow, she had received an impression that this was pretty generally the case with the young
man now before her, and when he began somewhat incoherently (in his foolish rage) to ask her
confirmation of the old servant's statement that his room had been dismantled, she was convinced
that it was his condition at the moment. Turning, with the grand air for which she was noted,
to the hoary butler who stood in the doorway between drawing-room and hall, respectfully awaiting
orders as to "Marse Eddie's" bag, she said,

"Put this drunken man out of the house!"

The aged slave stood aghast. Between the stately new mistress whom it was his duty to serve,
and the beloved young master whose home-coming had warmed his old heart, what should he do?

He stood in silence, his lined black face filled with sadness, his chin in his hand, his eyes
bent in sorrow and shame upon the floor. What should he do?--

Fortunately, the new mistress did not see his indecision as she swept from the room, and "Marse
Eddie" quickly relieved him of the embarrassing dilemma by picking up the carpet-bag and passing
out of the door, closing it behind him.

It was all a mistake--a miserable mistake; but one of those mistakes in understanding between
blind, prejudiced human beings by which hearts are broken, souls lost.

At the foot of the steps Edgar Poe paused and looked back at the massive closed door. Never--nevermore,
it seem to say to him.--Never--nevermore!

While he had been inside the house one of those sudden changes in the face of nature of which
his superstitious soul always made note, had taken place. A shower from a passing cloud had
filled the depressions in the uneven pavement, where before only sunshine lay, with little
pools of water, and had left the trees "weeping," as he fancifully described them to himself.

He walked along the wet streets for a few steps, by the side of the wall that enclosed house
and grounds. Then he paused again and looked over into the dripping garden while he held consultation
with himself as to what he should do next. As he looked the breath of drenched violets greeted
his nostrels. He noticed that the lilacs were coming into blossom. The fruit trees already
stood like brides veiled in their fresh bloom. The tulip and hyacinth and daffodil beds were
gay with color. How their newly washed faces shone in the sunshine, just then bursting through
the clouds!

Near him, just inside the wall, was a bed of lily-of-the-valley. He was seized with an almost
irresistible desire to go down upon his knees by it and search among the glistening green leaves
to see if the lilies were in bloom.

But the garden-gate, like the house door, was closed upon him and seemed to repeat the fateful
word--Nevermore.

Whither should he turn his steps? To Mr. Allan's office?--Never!

His intention had been to submit himself to Mr. Allan as far as his self-respect would let
him. To consult him in regard to the literary career he felt himself committed to now that
(as he recalled with satisfaction) the bridges between him and any other profession were burnt
behind him. His own plan, upon which he was resolved to ask Mr. Allan's opinion, would be to
seek a position in the line of journalism which would give him a living while he was waiting
for his more ambitious work to find buyers.

But since the interview with Mrs. Allan he realized the folly of this dream.

Then, whither should he go?--To the chums of his boyhood?--Rob Stanard, Dick Ambler, Rob Sully,
Jack Preston, where were they?--Good, dear friends they had been, but it seemed so long since
they had played together! What should they find to say to each other now? They were busy with
their various avocations and interests--what room in their hearts and homes could there be
for a wanderer like himself?

At the age of one and twenty, at the springtime of his life, as of the year--he felt himself
to be as friendless, as much a stranger in the city which he called home, as Rip Van Winkle
after his long sleep had felt in his. The only spots toward which he could turn with any confidence
for sympathy were those two quiet cities within this city where lay his loved and lovely dead--"The
doubly dead in that they died so young."

"How different my life would be if they had lived!" he murmured to the flowers.

Yet how fair was this world in which he had no place--even to a mere looker-on. How fair was
this mansion, in its setting of April green and bloom, which had once owned him as its young--its
future master. Above it Hope stretched her shining wings, but the hope was not for him. For
him the closed door and the closed gate said only, "no more--nevermore."

But whither should he go?--whither?

As he turned from the garden and walked slowly, aimlessly, down the street, his great grey
eyes fixed ponderingly upon the breaking clouds, a rainbow--bright symbol of promise--spanned
the heavens. His eyes widened, his lips parted at the wonder and the beauty and the suddenness
of it.

Whither should he go? Behold an answer meet for a poet!

Whither?--Whither?--The dark eyes in the pale cameo face turned skyward--the eyes of him who
had declared himself to be a deep worshipper of all beauty grew more dreamy. Whither, indeed,
but to the end of the rainbow!

By what "path obscure and lonely," the quest would lead him he knew not, but he would follow
it to the bitter end, for there, perchance, he would find if not the traditional pot of gold,
at least a wreath of laurel.

As he wandered down the street, his eyes still upon the bow, his dream was suddenly interrupted
by the hearty voice of one of his boyhood's friends, and his sister Rosalie's adopted brother,
Jack Mackenzie.

"Hello, Edgar!" he cried. "Did you drop from the clouds? Evidently, for I see your head is
still in them."

He returned the greeting with joy. How good it was to feel the hand-clasp of friendship and
welcome! He had always liked Jack--for the moment he loved him.

"And where are you bound--you and your bag?" asked Jack. "Not to Mr. Allan's, for you are going
in the wrong direction."

"No," replied The Dreamer, with a whimsical smile. "I was going there, but I found the door
shut, so I changed my mind, and had just decided to make the end of the rainbow my destination."

Jack's spontaneous laugh rang out. "The same old Edgar!" he said. "Well I won't interfere with
your journey except to defer it a bit. You are going home with me, to 'Duncan Lodge,' now--at
least to supper and spend the night; and to stay as much longer as pleases you. Rose and the
rest will be delighted to see you."

CHAPTER XVIII.

Where was Edgar Poe? Again the question was being asked. In many quarters and with varying
degrees of interest it was repeated. But it still remained unanswered.

In Richmond it was asked by the chums of his youth as they sat under their comfortable vines
and fig-trees, or stopped each other on a corner for a few moments' social chat, or--catching
some one of the rumors that were afloat concerning the gifted companion of their golden days--looked
up from their desks in office or counting-house to ask each other the question. Their faces
were keen with interest for their admiration and affection for The Dreamer had been sincere;
yet it was not strong enough after the lapse of years to make any one of them lay down work
and go forth to seek a solution of the mystery. Such an errand not one of them felt to be his
business. A quixotic errand it would indeed have been considered and one which, if half the
rumors were true, might have necessitated a journey to the ends of the earth, to prove but
a fool's errand after all.

The oft-repeated question was one with which John Allan little concerned himself. A robust
son and heir had come in his late middle age to fill all his thoughts with new interest and
plans for the present and the future. The patter of little feet of his own child on the stairs
and halls of his home, drowned the ghostly memories of other and less welcome footfalls that
had once echoed there.

He too, had heard rumors of the adventures and the misadventures of Edgar Poe, but he did not
consider it his business, as it was certainly not his pleasure, to investigate them.

In Baltimore too, the question was asked by the kinsfolk whose acquaintance Edgar had made
during his visit there. But they had never held themselves in the least responsible for this
eccentric son of their brother David, the actor--the black sheep of the family. Surely it was
none of their business to follow him upon any chase his foolish fancy might lead him.

But still, when the rumors that were rife reached their ears, it was with no small degree of
curiosity that they asked each other the question: Where was Edgar Poe?--What had become of
him?--Had he, as some believed, met death upon the high seas or in a foreign land?--Was he
the real hero of stories of adventure which floated across the ocean from Russia--from France--from
Greece?

He had certainly contemplated going abroad--the Superintendent of West Point Academy had had
a letter from him sometime after he left there, declaring his intention of seeking an appointment
in the Polish army. Had he gone, or was he, as some would have it, going in and out among them,
there in Baltimore, but unknown and unrecognized--his identity hidden under assumed name and
ingenious disguise?

Who could tell?

The wonder of it was not in the existence of the unanswered question--of the mystery--but that
the question could remain unanswered--the mystery remain unsolved--and no attempt be made to
lift the veil. That a young man, a gentleman, of prominent connections, of handsome features
and distinguished bearing and address, of rare mental gifts and cultivation, and of magnetic
personality, could disappear from the face of the earth--could, almost before the very eyes
of his fellows, step from the glare of the world in which he moved into the abyss of absolute
obscurity or impenetrable mystery, and create no stir--that no one should deem it his or her
business to seek or to find an answer to the question, a reading of the riddle.

Not until two years after Edgar Poe had turned his back upon the closed door of the Allan mansion,
in Richmond, and stepped, as it seemed from the edge of a world in which he was not wanted
into the unknown, did such an one arise. And that one was, as an especially good friend of
Edgar Poe's was most likely to be--a woman.

Between this woman:--Mrs. Maria Poe Clemm--a widow of middle age, and The Dreamer, there existed
the close blood-tie of aunt and nephew, for she was the own sister of his father, David Poe.

More than that--there existed, though they had never seen each other, a soul kinship rare between
persons of the same blood, and which (for all they had never seen each other) she, with the
woman's unerring instinct that sometimes seems akin to inspiration, divined. She too was something
of a dreamer, with an ear for the voices of Nature and a mind open to the influences of its
beauty, but with a goodly ballast of strong common sense.

She was but a young girl when her handsome and idolized brother David scandalized the family
by marrying an actress and himself taking to the stage. But she had seen the bewitching "Miss
Arnold" at the theatre in Baltimore--had, with fascinated eyes, followed her twinkling feet
through the mazy dance, had listened with charmed ears to her exquisite voice, had sat spell-bound
under her acting. To her childish mind, the stage had become a fairy-land and Miss Arnold its
presiding genius. That brother David should love and marry her seemed like something out of
a fairy book. She did not blame brother David; she secretly entirely approved of him.

In her later years the death of the husband of her own youth who had been romantically, passionately
loved, had left her penniless but not disillusioned; with her own living to get and a little
daughter with a face like a Luca Della Robbia chorister, and a voice that went with the face,
but who had the requirements of other flesh and blood children, to be provided for. This child
was the sunshine of the lonely widow's life, yet she only in part filled the great mother's
heart of her. Nature had made her to be the mother of a son as well as a daughter, then mockingly,
it would seem, denied her.

But in her dreams she worshipped the son she had never borne, and deep in her heart was stored,
like unshed tears, the love she would have lavished upon him had her whole mission in life
been fulfilled.

She had heard little of her brother David's son Edgar, but that little had always interested
her. She was living away from Baltimore during his visit there just before he entered West
Point, and so she did not meet him; but upon the death of her husband, soon afterward, she
had returned to the home of her girlhood, and established herself in modest, but respectable
quarters, to earn a livelihood for the little Virginia and herself by the use of her skillful
needle.

It was soon afterward that with a concern which no one but herself had felt, she learned of
the mystery surrounding the whereabouts of her nephew.

She yearned over the wanderer and longed to mother him, as, somehow, she knew he needed to
be mothered. She kept near her a copy of his last little book of poems which she had read again
and again. In the earlier ones she saw a loose handful of jewels in the rough, yet she recognized
the sparkle which distinguishes the genuine from the false. In the later ones she perceived
gems "of purest ray serene," polished and strung and ready to be passed on from generation
to generation--priceless heir-looms.

She was a tall woman, and deep-bosomed, with large but clear-cut and strong features, and handsome,
deepset gray eyes which habitually wore the expression of one who has loved much and sorrowed
much. She had been called stately before her proud spirit had bowed itself in submission to
the chastenings of grief--since when she had borne the seal of meekness. But there was a distinction
about her that neither grief nor poverty could destroy. She was so unmistakably the gentle-woman.
In the simple, but dainty white cap, with its floating strings, which modestly covered her
dark waving hair, the plain black dress and prim collar fastened with its mourning pin, she
made a reposeful picture of the old-fashioned conception of "a widow indeed."

Her hands were not her least striking feature. They were large, but perfectly modelled, and
they were deft, capable, full of character and feeling. In their touch there was a wonderfully
soothing quality. In winter they always possessed just the pleasantest degree of warmth; in
summer just the most grateful degree of coolness. No one ever received a greeting from them
without being impressed with the friendliness, the sympathy of their clasp.

As she bent her fine, deeply-lined face over them, and the work they held, while the little
Virginia sat nursing a doll at her feet, she often stitched into the garments that they fashioned
yearnings, thoughts, questionings of the youth--her brother's child--whose picture, as she
had conceived him from descriptions she had heard, she carried in her heart. She knew too well
the weakness that was his inheritance and she knew too, what perils were in waiting to ensnare
the feet of untried youth--poor, homeless and without the restraining influences of friends
and kindred--whatever their inheritance might be.

Sometimes she felt that the yearning was almost more than she could bear, and that she must
arise and go forth and seek this straying sheep of the fold of Poe. But alas, she was but a
woman, without money and without a clue upon which to begin to work save such as wild, improbable
and contradictory rumors afforded. That was, after all, what she most needed--a clue. If she
could only find a clue, poor as she was, she would follow it to the ends of the earth!

Upon a summer's day two years after Edgar's disappearance, and when she had almost given up
hope, the clue came. It was placed in her hand by her cousin, and Edgar's, Neilson Poe, who
had no faith in its value but passed it on to her as it had come to him--"for what it was worth,"
as he expressed it.

It was a strange story that Mrs. Clemm's cousin Neilson told her, and which had been told him,
he said, by an acquaintance of his from Richmond who had known Edgar Poe in his boyhood.

It seems that this Richmond man had during a visit to Baltimore gone to a brickyard to arrange
for the shipment home of bricks for a new house he was building. As he sat in the office talking
to the manager of the yard, a line of men bearing freshly molded bricks to the kiln passed
the open window. There was something about the appearance of one of the laborers that struck
the Richmond man as familiar and he turned quickly to the manager and asked the name of the
man, pointing him out. The name given him was a strange one to him and he dismissed the matter
from his thoughts and returned to his business talk.

Upon his way to his hotel, however, the appearance of the brick-carrier, and the impression
that somewhere, he had seen him before, returned to his mind and it came upon him in a flash,
first that the likeness was to Edgar Poe, and then the conviction that the man was none other
than Poe himself, though emaciated and aged to a degree that, with his shabby dress and unshaven
chin, made him scarcely recognizable. Though he had been but a casual acquaintance of Edgar's,
he was deeply touched at seeing him so evidently in distress, and returned to the brickyard
early the next morning for the purpose of speaking to him and of helping him back into the
sphere in which he belonged and from which he had so long disappeared. But the man he sought
was not there and no one knew where his lodgings were. He was a recent employe of the yard,
they said, and so gloomy and unsociable that he had made no friends. He was capable of a great
amount of work, which he performed faithfully, but kept to himself and had little to say to
anybody.

Upon the day before he had looked ill and had stopped work before the day was over. He was
evidently suffering from exhaustion, but had declared that he needed nothing, and after sitting
down to rest upon a pile of bricks for a while, had gone off to his home--wherever that might
be--as usual, alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

This story Neilson Poe set down as highly sensational. He did not believe, he said with a laugh,
that his cousin, when found, would be doing anything half so energetic or useful as carrying
bricks--he would have more hope of him if he could believe it. The laborer's real, or fancied,
likeness to Edgar was but a case of chance resemblance, that was all.

But that was not enough for Maria Clemm. She folded her sewing and laid it away with an air
of finality which plainly said that she had found other and more pressing work to do. The sewing
must wait a more convenient season.

Then she went out into the streets sweltering in the summer heat, and turned her face toward
that obscure quarter of the town where human beings who could not afford to rest or to dine
might at least secure a corner in which to "lodge" and the right, if not the appetite, to "eat,"
for an infinitesimal sum; for it was in this quarter that strange as it might, seem, her instinct
told her her search must be made--in this quarter that Edgar Poe, the rich merchant's pampered
foster-child, Edgar Poe, the poet, the scholar, the exquisite in dress, in taste and in manners,
would be found.

When she did find him the mystery that had surrounded him was stripped of the last shred of
its romance. In a room compared to which the little chamber back of the shop of Mrs. Fipps,
the milliner, in which his mother had drawn her last breath, and in which Frances Allan had
found and fallen in love with him, was luxurious, he lay upon a bed of straw thrown into a
dark corner, tossing with fever and in his delirium, literally "babbling of green fields."

The kind-hearted, but ignorant and uncleanly slattern who sought with "lodgings to let" to
keep the souls of herself and family in their bodies, gave him as much attention as the demands
of a numerous brood of little slatterns and a drunken husband would permit, and sighed with
real sorrow as she admitted that the "poor gentleman" was in a very bad way. It was her opinion
he had seen better days she confided to the three other lodgers who were just then renting
the three straw beds in the three other corners of the same dark, squalid and evil-smelling
room. He was "so soft-spoken and elegant-like, if he was poor as a church mouse. Pity he had
no folks nor nobody to keer nothin' about 'im."

It was not at once that Mrs. Clemm found him. She had sought him diligently in what would to-day
be known as the slum districts of the city, descending the scale of respectability lower and
lower until she thought she had reached the bottom, but without success.

Then, upon the fourth or fifth day of her search, late in the afternoon, when the little Virginia
was watching anxiously from the sitting-room window for "Muddie's" return, a wagon stopped
before her door and out of it and into the house was borne a stretcher upon which lay an apparently
dying man--ghastly, unshaven, and muttering broken unintelligible sentences.

Keeping pace with the wagon as it crept along the street, might have been seen the stately,
sad-eyed Widow Clemm. When the wagon stopped, she stopped, and directed the careful lifting
of the stretcher from it. Then she turned and opened the door of her small house and led the
way to her neat bed-chamber where, upon her own immaculate bed, the sick man was gently laid--henceforth,
as long as need be, a cot in the sitting-room would be good enough for her.

The little Virginia, her soft eyes filled with wonder, had followed her mother upon tip-toe.

"Who is it, Muddie?" she questioned in an awed whisper.

The anxiety in the widow's face gave place to a look of exaltation which fairly transfigured
her. Her deep eyes shone with the hoarded love for the son so long denied her. She gathered
her little daughter to her breast and kissed her tenderly.

"It is your brother, darling," she gently said. "God has given me a son!"

Well she knew that he was not yet entirely her own--that she would have to wrestle fiercely
with Death for his possession. But she had made up her mind that she would win the battle.

"Death shall not have him," she passionately told herself.

But the next moment, overwhelmed with a realization of human helplessness, she was upon her
knees at his bedside, crying:

"Oh, God, do not let him die! I have but just found him! Spare him to me now, if but a little
while!"

CHAPTER XIX.

For many days the sick man lay with eyes closed in uneasy sleep or open, but unseeing, and
with body writhing and tongue loosed but incoherent, showing that these half-waking hours,
as well as the sleeping ones, were "horror haunted."

Finally the most terrible of dreams visited him. The circumstances of his life had caused him
from his infancy to dwell much upon the subject of death. He had oftentimes taken a gruesome
pleasure in trying to imagine all the sensations of the grim passage into the "Valley of the
Shadow"--even to the closing of the coffin-lid and the descent into the grave. Now, in his
fever-dream, the dreadful details and sensations imagined in health came to him, but with tenfold
vividness. At the point when in the blackness and suffocation of conscious burial horror had
reached its extremest limit and the sufferer was upon the verge of real death from sheer terror,
relief came. He seemed to feel himself freed from the closeness, the maddening fight for breath,
of the coffin, and gently, surely, borne upward out of the abyss ... upward ... upward ...
into air--light--life!

For a long while he lay quite still, too exhausted to move hand or foot--to raise his eyelids
even; but content--more--happy, perfectly happy, in the glorious consciousness of being able
just to lie still and breathe the sweet air of day.

Presently, as he began to feel rested, the great grey eyes opened. For the first time since
the conqueror, Fever, had overthrown him and bound him to the uneasy bed of straw, they were
clear as the sky after a storm--swept clean of every cob-web cloud; but their lucid depths
were filled with surprise, for they opened upon a cool, light, homelike chamber. The walls
around him were white, but were relieved here and there by restful prints in narrow black frames.
The four-post bed upon which he lay was canopied and the large, bright windows were curtained
with snowiest dimity, but the draperies of both were drawn and he could look out at the trees
and the sky now roseate with the hues of evening. In a set of shelves that nearly reached the
ceiling stood row on row of friendly looking books. Upon a high mahogany chest of drawers,
with its polished brass trimmings and little swinging looking-glass, stood a white and gold
porcelain vase filled with asters--purple, white and pink--while before it, in a deep arm-chair,
a little girl of ten or eleven years, with a face like a Luca della Robbia chorister, or like
one of the children of sunny Italy that served for old Luca's model, was curled up, stroking
a large white cat which lay purring in her lap.

Upon the child the wondering eyes of the sick man lingered longest and to her they returned
when their survey of the rest of the room was done. Suddenly, impelled by the steadiness of
his gaze, she lifted her own dark, soft eyes and let them rest for a moment upon his. She started--then
was up and across the floor in a flash, carrying the cat upon her shoulder.

"Muddie, Muddie," she cried from the door, "The new Buddie is awake!"

Then, still carrying her pet, she walked, to his bedside and gazed earnestly and unabashed
into the "new Buddie's" face. Her eyes had the velvety softness of pansy petals and as they
looked into the eyes of the sick man recalled to his clearing mind the expression of mixed
love and questioning in the eyes of his spaniel, "Comrade," the faithful friend of his boyhood.

At length he spoke.

"Who is 'Muddie'?"

"She's my mother, and you are my new brother that has come to live with us always."

A radiant smile illumined the pale and haggard face. "Thank Heaven for that!" he said. "And
who brought me up out of the grave?"

The child was spared the necessity of puzzling over this startling question. Surely it was
no other than she, he thought--she who at this moment appeared at the open door--the tall figure
of a woman or angel who in the next moment was kneeling beside him with a heaven of protecting
love in her face. She it was, no other! Through all of his dreams he had been dimly conscious
of her--saving him from death and despair. Now for the first time, in the light of life, and
in his new consciousness he saw her plainly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Edgar Poe's convalescence was slow but it was steady, and even in his weakness he felt a peace
and happiness such as he had rarely tasted. This frugal but restful home in which he found
himself, with the ministrations of "Muddie" and "Sissy," as he playfully called his aunt and
the little cousin who had adopted him as her "Buddie," were to him, after his struggle with
hunger, fever and death, like a safe harbor to a storm-tossed sailor.

The little Virginia claimed him as her own from the beginning. As long as he was weak enough
to need to be waited upon her small feet and hands never wearied in his service but as he grew
better, it was he who served her. There never were such stories as he could tell, such games
as he could play, and he took her cat to his heart with gratifying promptness. When they walked
out together the world seemed turned into a fairyland as with her hand held fast in his he
told her wonderful secrets about the clouds, the trees, the flowers, the birds and even about
the stones under her feet. It was fascinating to her too, to lie and listen to him read and
talk with "Muddie." She was not wise enough to understand much that they said, but at night,
when she had been tucked into bed, he would sit under the lamp and read aloud from one of the
books in the shelves, or from the long strips of paper upon which he wrote and wrote; and though
she did not understand the words, she delighted to listen, for his voice made the sweetest
lullaby music.

With the return of health and strength, energy and the impulse for life's battle began to return
to Edgar Poe, and with them a new incentive. He began to awaken to the fact that "Muddie" and
"Sissy" were poor and that his presence in their home was making them poorer--that the struggle
to support this modest establishment was a severe one, and that he must arise and add what
he could to the earnings of the deft needle. The three little editions of his poems had brought
him no money--he had begun to despair of their ever bringing him any. He had sometime since
turned his attention to prose but the manuscripts of such stories as he had offered the publishers
had come back to him with unflattering promptness. He began now, however, with fresh heart
to write and to arrange a number of those that seemed to him to be his best, for a book, to
which he proposed to give the title, "Tales of the Folio Club."

But the new tide of hope was soon at a low ebb. The editors and publishers would have none
of his work.

When the repeated return to him of the stories, poems and essays he sent out had begun to make
him lose faith in their merit and to question his own right to live since the world had no
use for the only commodity he was capable of producing, "Muddie" came in one evening with an
unusually bright, eager look in her eyes and a copy of The Saturday Visitor (a weekly paper
published in Baltimore) in her hand.

"Here's your chance, Eddie," she said.

In big capitals upon the first page of the paper was an announcement to the effect that the
Visitor would give two prizes--one of one hundred dollars for the best short story, and one
of fifty dollars for the best poem submitted to it anonymously. Three well-known gentlemen
of the city would act as judges, and the names of the successful contestants would be published
upon the twelfth of October.

With trembling hands the discouraged young applicant for place as an author made a neat parcel
of six of his "Tales of the Folio Club" and a recently written poem, "The Coliseum," and left
them, that very night, at the door of the office of The Saturday Visitor.

How eagerly he and "Muddie" and "Sissy" awaited the fateful twelfth! The hours and the days
dragged by on leaden wings. But the twelfth came at last. It found Edgar Poe at the office
of the Visitor an hour before time for the paper to be issued, but at length he held the scarcely
dry sheet in his hand and there, with his name at the end, was the story that had taken the
prize--"The MS. Found in a Bottle."

More!--In the following wonderful--most wonderful words, it seemed to him--the judges declared
their decision:

     "Among the prose articles were many of various and
     distinguished merit, but the singular force and beauty of those
     sent by the author of 'Tales of the Folio Club' leave us no
     room for hesitation in that department. We have awarded the
     premium to a tale entitled, 'The MS. Found in a Bottle.' It
     would hardly be doing justice to the writer of this collection
     to say that the tale we have chosen is the best of the six
     offered by him. We cannot refrain from saying that the author
     owes it to his own reputation as well as to the gratification
     of the community to publish the entire volume. These tales are
     eminently distinguished by a wild, vigorous and poetical
     imagination, a rich style, a fertile invention and varied,
     curious learning.

    (Signed)
    "JOHN P. KENNEDY,
    J.H.B. LATROBE,
    JAMES H. MILLER,
    Committee."

Here was the fulfilment of hope long deferred! Here was a brimming cup of joy which the widowed
aunt and little cousin who had taken him in and made him a son and brother could share with
him! It seemed almost too good to be true, yet there it was in plain black and white with the
signatures of the three gentlemen whose opinion everyone would respect, at the end. What wealth
that hundred dollars--the first earnings of his pen--seemed. What comforts for the modest home
it would buy! This was no mere nod of recognition from the literary world, but a cordial hand-clasp,
drawing him safely within that magic, but hitherto frowning portal.

He felt as if he were walking on air as he hurried home to tell "Muddie" and "Sissy" of his
and their good fortune. And how proud "Muddie" was of her boy! How lovingly little "Sissy"
hung on his neck and gave him kisses of congratulation--though but little realizing the significance
of his success. And how he, in turn, beamed upon them! The grey eyes had lost all of their
melancholy and seemed suddenly to have become wells of sunshine. In imagination he pictured
these loved ones raised forever from want, for he told himself that he would not only sell
for a goodly price all the rest of the "Tales of the Folio Club," but under the happy influence
of his success he would write many more and far better stories still, to be promptly exchanged
for gold.

Bright and early Monday morning he made ready (with "Muddie's" aid) for a round of visits to
the members of the committee, to thank them for their kind words. His clothes, hat, boots and
gloves were all somewhat worse for wear and his old coat hung loosely upon his shoulders--wasted
as they still were by the effects of his long illness; but he whistled while he brushed and
"Muddie" darned and carefully inked the worn seams, and finally it was with a feeling that
he was quite presentable that he kissed his hands to his two good angels and ran gaily down
the steps. Hope gave him a debonair mien that belied his shabby-genteel apparel.

A quarter of an hour later Mr. John Kennedy, prominent lawyer and the author of that pleasant
book "Swallow Barn," then newly published and the talk of the town, answered a knock upon his
office door with a quick, "Come in!"

At the same time he raised his eyes and confronted those of the young author whom he had been
instrumental in raising from the "verge of despair."

The face of the older man was one of combined strength and amiability. Evidences of talent
were there, but combined with common sense. There was benevolence in the expansive brow and
kindliness and humor as well as character, about the lines of the nose and the wide, full-lipped
mouth, and the eyes diffused a light which was not only bright but genial, and which robbed
them of keenness as they rested upon the pathetic and at the same time distinguished figure
before him. What the kindly eyes took in a glance was that the pale and haggard young stranger
with the big brow and eyes and the clear-cut features, the military carriage and the shabby,
but neat, frock coat buttoned to the throat where it met the fashionable black stock, and with
the modest and exquisite manners, was a gentleman and a scholar--but poor, probably even hungry.
They kindled with added interest when the visitor introduced himself as Edgar Poe--the author
of "Tales of the Folio Club."

The strong, pleasant face and the cordial hand that grasped his own, then placed a chair for
him, invited the young author's confidence--a confidence that always responded promptly to
kindness--and he had soon poured into the attentive ear of John Kennedy not only profuse thanks
for the encouraging words in the Visitor but his whole history. Deeply touched by the young
man's refined and intellectual beauty--partially obscured as it was by the unmistakable marks
of illness and want--by his frank, confiding manners, by the evidences in thought and expression
of gifts of a high order, and by the moving story he told, Mr. Kennedy's heart went out to
him and he sent him on his way to pay his respects to the other members of the committee, rejoicing
in offers of friendship and hospitality and promises of aid in securing publishers for his
writings.

Edgar Poe had been loved of women, he had been adored by small boys, he had received many material
benefits from his foster father, he had been kindly treated by his teachers, but he was now
for the first time taken by the hand spiritually as well as physically, by a man, a man of
mental and moral force and of position in the world; a man, moreover, who with rare divination
appreciated, out of his own strength, the weaknesses and the needs as well as the gifts and
graces of his new acquaintance, and who took his dreams and ambitions seriously. The sane,
wholesome companionship which The Dreamer found in him and at his hospitable fireside acted
like a tonic upon his spirits and improvement in his health both of mind and body were rapid.

Though warning him against being over much elated at his success, and an expectation of growing
suddenly either rich or famous, Mr. Kennedy was as good as his word in regard to helping him
find a market for his work. A proud moment it was when the young author received a note from
his patron inviting him to dine with Mr. Wilmer, the editor of The Saturday Visitor which had
given him the prize, and some other gentlemen of the profession of journalism. But his pleasure
was followed by quick mortification. What should he wear? Still holding the open note in his
hand, he looked down ruefully at his clothes--his only ones. For all their brushing and darning
they were unmistakably shabby--utterly unfit to grace a dinner-party. Nearly all of the hundred
dollars which had seemed such a fortune had already been spent to pay bills incurred during
his illness and to buy provisions for the bare little home which had sheltered him in his need
and which had become so dear to his heart. No, he could not go to the dinner, but what excuse
could he make that would seem to Mr. Kennedy sufficient to warrant him in not only declining
his hospitality but putting from him the chance of meeting the editor of the Visitor under
such auspices?

At length he decided that in this case absolute frankness was his only course.

As he was about, in bitterness of soul, to add his signature a sudden thought caused him to
pause, pen poised in air. A thought?--A temptation would perhaps be a better word. It bade
him consider carefully before throwing away his chance. Who knew, who could tell, it questioned,
how much might depend upon this meeting? His fortune might be made by it! Almost certainly
it would lead to the sale of some more of his stories to the Visitor. Mr. Kennedy believed
that it would have this result--for this purpose he had arranged it. After taking so much pains
for his benefit he would undoubtedly be disappointed--seriously disappointed--if his plan should
fail. Mr. Kennedy had been so kind, so generous--doubtless he would gladly advance him a sum
sufficient to make himself presentable for the dinner--to be paid by the first check received
as a result of the meeting. A very modest sum would do. He might manage it, he thought, with
twenty dollars.

Finally, he drew his unfinished note before him again and added to what he had written,

"If you will be my friend so far as to loan me twenty dollars, I will be with you tomorrow--otherwise
it will be impossible, and I must submit to my fate. Sincerely yours,

    "E.A. POE."

CHAPTER XX.

The dinner went off charmingly. In addition to several journalists, Mr. Latrobe and Mr. Miller
who, with Mr. Kennedy, had formed the committee that awarded the prize to Edgar Poe, were there
and the meeting between the young guest of honor and his patrons engendered a spirit of bon-homie
that was palpable to all. Under its spell The Dreamer's spirits rose. Yet he was quiet, listening
with deep attention to the conversation of his elders, but having little to say, until the
repast was half over, when he responded to the evident desire of his host to draw him out.
The conversation had turned upon a favorite theme of his--the power of words. He threw himself
into it with zest, and with brilliant play of expression animating his splendid eyes and pale
features, and the graceful, unrestrained gestures of one thoroughly at ease and entirely unconscious
of self, he held the table spell-bound with a flow of sparkling talk in which his own exquisite
choice of words delighted his hearers no less than the originality and beauty of his thought.

In the young editor of The Saturday Visitor he promptly found a second friend among men of
letters. Mr. Wilmer, already prejudiced in his favor by the success of the "MS. Found in a
Bottle," and its cordial reception by the public, and by Mr. Kennedy's warm words of recommendation,
yielded at once to the witchery of the poetic eyes, the courtly manners and the charmed tongue,
and not only befriended him by inviting and accepting his writings for publication, but gave
him, as time went on, what proved to be a stimulant to good work as well as one of his greatest
pleasures--the intimate companionship of a man of congenial tastes and near his own age.

       *       *       *       *       *

The winter that followed was one of the happiest of The Dreamer's life--a lull in a tempest,
a dream of peace within a dream of storm and stress.

He was soon able to return the twenty dollars to Mr. Kennedy. The newspapers kept him busy
and while the returns were--so far--small, he was hopeful. He felt that he had made a beginning,
and that the future promised well. His work was praised and he became something of a lion--the
doors of many a proud Baltimore home opening graciously to his touch.

He cared little for general society, however. His greatest pleasure he found in his evenings
with the Kennedys (for Mrs. Kennedy had taken him in as promptly as her husband) or in a canter
far into the country on the saddle horse which Mr. Kennedy, noting his pallor and thinking
that out-door exercise would be of benefit to him, kindly placed at his disposal, or in walks
in the fields and lanes beyond the city with his new chum Wilmer. Many a fine afternoon saw
these two cronies, often accompanied by the sprite, Virginia, with her airy movements and vivid
beauty, rambling in the suburbs, and beyond, with heads close in intimate communion of thought
and fancy.

What he enjoyed most of all was the time spent at his desk, in the shelter of the new-found
haven of rest, with the happy "Muddie" and "Sissy" nearby.

This little family circle was unique. There was an unmistakably oak-like element in the nature
of the widow which was apparent to some degree even in her outward appearance, in the stateliness
and dignity of her figure and carriage--an element of sturdiness and self-reliance which made
it her pleasure to be clung to, looked up to, leaned upon. The character of her new-found son
was, on the contrary, vine-like. He was constantly reaching out tendrils of craving for love,
for appreciation, for understanding. More--for advice, for guidance. Such tendrils seeking
a foot-hold, make a strong appeal to every womanly woman. She sees in them a call to her nobility
of soul, to the mother that is a part of her spiritual nature--a call that gives her pleasant
good-angel sensations, that soften her heart and flatter her self-esteem. To the Widow Clemm,
with her self-reliance and her highly developed maternal instinct, the appeal was irresistible
and between her and The Dreamer the ivy and oak relation was promptly established, while in
the little Virginia he found a heartsease blossom to be loved and sheltered by both--the loveliest
of heartsease blossoms whose beauty, whose purity and innocence and the stored sweets of whose
nature were all for him.

The three lived, indeed, for each other only, in a dream-valley apart from and invisible to,
the rest of the world, for their dreams of which it was constructed made it theirs and theirs
alone. Their dreams piled beautiful mountains around the valley through which peace flowed
as a gentle river, while love and contentment and innocent pleasures were as flowers besprinkling
the grass and speaking to their hearts of the love and the glory of God, and the fancies with
which they beguiled the time were as tall, fantastic trees, moved by soft zephyrs. And because
of the bright flowers ever springing in the green turf that carpeted the valley, they named
it the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass. And to the three the dream-valley, with its peace
and its beauty and its sweet seclusion, was the real world, while all the wilderness outside
of it, where other men dwelt was the unreal.

       *       *       *       *       *

One happy effect of these peaceful days upon The Dreamer was that there was in them no temptation
to excess--no restless craving for excitement. The Bohemian--the Edgar Goodfellow--side of
him found, it is true, an outlet, but a harmless one. He found it in the genial atmosphere
of the Widow Meagher's modest eating-house where he and his new crony, Wilmer, passed many
a jolly hour. The widow, an elderly, portly dame, with a kind Irish heart and keen Irish wit,
had the power of diffusing a wonderful cheerfulness around her. Her shop was clean, if plain,
her oysters were savory, if cheap. Like all women, she petted Edgar Poe, and hearing from Wilmer
that he was a poet, she at once gave him the name by which the West Point boys had called him,
and to all of the frequenters of her shop he was known as "the Bard."

Her shop had not only an oyster counter, but a bar and a room for cards and smoking but these
had little attraction for Poe at this period of his career--much to the widow's dissatisfaction,
for she wished "the Bard" to be merry, and did not like to see him neglect what she honestly
and unblushingly believed to be the really good things of life. But though to her pressing
invitations, "Bard take a hand," "Bard take a nip," he was generally deaf, he was more accomodating
when, after getting off an unusually clever bit of pleasantry (putting her customers into an
uproar of laughter) she would turn to him with, "Bard put it in poethry." And put it "in poethry"
he did--to the increased hilarity of the crowd.

       *       *       *       *       *

The month of February brought an interruption to the smooth and pleasant course of The Dreamer's
life. A long time had passed since he had heard anything of his friends down in Virginia, and
it was therefore with quick interest that he broke the seal of a letter bearing the Richmond
post-mark and addressed to him in the unforgotten hand of his early admirer, Rob Sully. Dear
old Rob, the sight of the familiar hand-writing alone warmed The Dreamer's heart and brought
the soft, melting expression to his eyes!

The object of the letter was to tell him that Mr. Allan was extremely ill--dying, some thought,
though the end might not be immediate. Rob was taking it upon himself to write because he felt
that Eddie ought to know. Mr. Allan had lately been heard to speak kindly of Eddie, he had
been told, and it had occurred to him that Eddie might like to come on and have a word of forgiveness
from him before he died.

As "Eddie" read, the pleasure the first sight of the letter had given him turned to sudden,
sharp pain. Mr. Allan and--death! He had never thought of associating the two. Under the influence
of the shock his heart became all tenderness and regret.

He hurriedly packed his carpet-bag, kissed Mrs. Clemm and Virginia goodbye, and set out post-haste
for Richmond and the homestead on Main and Fifth Streets.

He did not stop to lift the brass knocker this time. The forlorn details of his last visit,
his lack of right to cross that threshold uninvited--what mattered such considerations now?
They were, indeed, forgotten. Everything was forgotten--everything save that the man who had
stood in the position of father to him was dying--dying without a word of pardon to him, the
most wayward (he felt at that moment of severe contrition)--the most wayward of prodigal sons.
Everything was forgotten save that he was having a race with death--a race for a father's blessing!

He flung wide the massive front door and hastened through the spacious hall, up the stair and
into the room where the ill man sat in an arm-chair. On the threshold he paused for a moment.
Mr. Allan saw and recognized him, and at once the misunderstanding of the actions of his adopted
son for which he seemed to have a gift, asserted itself, construing the visit as an unpardonable
liberty. The only motive Mr. Allan could imagine which could have prompted Edgar Poe to force
himself, as it seemed to him, into his presence at this time was a mercenary one, and burning
with indignation, his eyes gleaming with something like their old fire, he half raised himself
from the chair.

"How dare you?" he screamed in the grating tones of angry old age. Then, grasping the cane
at his side in trembling fingers and raising it with threatening gesture, he ordered his visitor
to leave the room at once.

Edgar Poe stood aghast for a moment, then fled down the stair and out of the door and turning
his back for the last time upon the house whose young master he had been, with the word "Nevermore"
ringing like a knell in his ears, made his way again to the abode of love and peace in Baltimore,
which held his whole heart and which had become his home.

A few weeks later Mr. Allan died, leaving the whole of his fortune to his second wife and her
children.

       *       *       *       *       *

It now became more important than ever for Edgar Poe to earn a living. In spite of the fact
that Mr. Allan was known to have lost all regard for him, his friends had always believed that
he would be remembered in the will. They believed that John Allan's rigid, sometimes even strained,
idea of justice would cause him to provide for the boy for whom he had voluntarily, albeit
against his own judgment, made himself responsible. The fact that the boy had turned out to
be, in Mr. Allan's opinion, "trifling," that he refused to engage in any "useful" work and
that at five and twenty years of age he had not established himself in any "paying business"
would, those who knew Mr. Allan best believed, be with him but another reason for ensuring
against want his first wife's spoiled darling who was evidently incapable of taking care of
himself and therefore (so they believed he would argue) so much the more his care.

Possibly The Dreamer may have taken this view himself. However that may be, the opening of
the will silenced all conjecture, and as has been said, made the need of his making his work
produce money more pressing than ever. His friend Wilmer did his best for him--publishing his
stories in The Saturday Visitor from time to time and paying him as well as he was able. But
Wilmer and his paper were poor themselves. The Visitor was only a small weekly, with a modest
subscription list. It had little to pay, however good the "copy" and that little and Mother
Clemm's earnings put together barely kept the wolf from the door.

When the frequent and welcome summons to the bountiful board of the Kennedys came the young
poet blushed for shame in the pleasure he could not help feeling in anticipation of the chance
to satisfy his chastened appetite, and he often found himself fearing that the hunger with
which he ate the good things which these kind friends placed upon his plate would betray the
necessary frugality of the dear "Muddie's" house-keeping, which was one of the sacred secrets
of the sweet home. Sometimes his pride would make him go so far as to decline delicious morsels
in the hope of correcting such an impression, if it should exist.

He racked his brain to find a means of making his work bring him more money. Upon Mr. Kennedy's
advice, he sent his "Tales of the Folio Club" to the Philadelphia publishing house of "Carey
and Lea." After several weeks of anxious waiting he received a letter accepting the collection
for publication but frankly admitting that his receiving any profit from the sale of the book
was an exceedingly doubtful matter. They suggested, however, that they be permitted to sell
some of the tales to publishers of the then popular "annuals," reserving the right to reprint
them in the book. To this the author gladly consented and received with a joy that was pathetic
the sum of fifteen dollars from "The Souvenir," which had purchased one of the tales at a dollar
a printed page.

He and Wilmer put their heads together in dreams of literary work by which a man could live.
One of these dreams took form in the prospectus of a purely literary journal of the highest
class which was to be in its criticisms and editorial opinions "fearless, independent and sternly
just."

But the scheme required capital and never got beyond the glowing prospectus.

In spite of the small sums that came to him as veritable God-sends from the sale of his stories
and from odd jobs on the Visitor and other journals, Edgar Poe was poor--miserably poor. And
just as he had begun to flatter himself that he did not mind, that he would bear it with the
nonchalance of the true philosopher he believed he had become, it assumed the shape of horror
unspeakable to him. Not for himself, if there were only himself to think of, he felt assured,
he could laugh poverty--want even--to scorn; but that his little Virginia should feel the pinch
was damnable!

Two years had made marked changes in Virginia. She was losing the formless plumpness of childhood
and growing rapidly into a slight and graceful maiden--a "rare and radiant maiden," with the
tender light of womanhood beginning to dawn in her velvet eyes and to sweeten the curves of
her lips. A maiden lovelier by far than the child had been but with the same divine purity
and innocence that had always been hers--that were his, for her beauty, her purity and innocence
and the stored sweets of her nature were still for him alone and for him alone too, was her
sweet companionship--her comradeship--of which he never wearied.

Under his guidance her mind had unfolded like a flower. She was beginning to speak fluently
in French and in Italian. How he loved the musical southern accents on her tongue! And she
was developing an exquisite singing voice. Her voice was her crowning grace--her voice was
his delight of delights! As he gazed into the shadows that lay under her long black lashes
and listened to her voice, with its hint of hidden springs of passion, his pulses stirred at
the thought that this lovely flower of dawning womanhood was his little Virginia, and his own
heart ached to think that any desire of hers should ever be denied.

In his desperation he thought of teaching and applied for a position in a school, but without
success.

But relief was at hand.

While the Dreamer and his friend the editor of The Saturday Visitor had been building literary
air-castles in Baltimore, a journal destined to take something approaching such a stand as
their ideal was actually founded, in Richmond, under the title of The Southern Literary Messenger.
Its owner and publisher, Mr. Thomas W. White, was no dreamer, but a practical printer and an
enterprising man of business. Early in this year--the year 1835--Mr. White wrote to Mr. Kennedy,
requesting a contribution from his pen for the new magazine, and, as was to be expected, Mr.
Kennedy, with his wonted thoughtfulness of his literary protegé, wrote back commending to Mr.
White's notice the work of "a remarkable young man by the name of Edgar Poe."

At Mr. Kennedy's suggestion Edgar bundled off some of the "Tales of the Folio Club" for Mr.
White's inspection, with the result that in the March number of the Messenger the weird story
"Berenice," appeared. It and its author became at once the talk of the hour, and when the history
of "The Adventures of Hans Phaal" came out in the June number it found the reading public ready
and waiting to fall upon and devour it.

Other stories and articles followed in quick succession and the pungent critiques and reviews
of the new pen were looked for and read with as great interest as the tales.

In a glow over the prosperity which the popularity of the new writer was bringing his magazine,
Mr. White wrote to him offering him the position of assistant editor, with a salary of five
hundred and twenty dollars a year, to begin with. Of course the offer was to be accepted! The
salary, small as it was, seemed to The Dreamer in comparison to the diminutive and irregular
sums he had been accustomed to receive, almost like wealth. But its acceptance would mean,
for the present, anyhow, separation--a break in the small home circle where had been, with
all of its deprivations, so much of joy--a dissolving of the magical Valley of the Many-Colored
Grass. Not for a moment, he vowed to Mother Clemm and Virginia, was this separation to be looked
upon as permanent. Just so soon as he should be able to provide a home for them in Richmond
he would have them with him again, and there they would reconstruct their dream-valley. But
for the present--.

The present, in spite of the new prosperity, was unbearable!

In vain the Mother with the patience born of her superior years and experience, assured them
that time had wings, and that the days of absence would be quickly past. To the youthful poet
and the little maid who lived with no other thought than to love and be loved by him a month--a
week--a day apart, seemed an eternity.

In the midst of their woe at the prospect a miracle happened--a miracle and a discovery.

It fell upon a serene summer's afternoon when the two children--they were both that at heart--wandered
along a sweet, shady lane leading from the outskirts of town into the country. It was to be
their last walk together for who knew, who could tell how long? The poet's great grey eyes
wore their deepest melancholy and the little maid's soft brown ones too, were full of trouble,
for had not their love turned to pain? They spoke little, for the love and the pain were alike
too deep for words, but the heart of each was filled with broodings and musings upon the love
it bore the other and upon the agony of parting.

How could he leave her? the poet asked himself. His cherished comrade whose beauty, whose purity
and innocence, the stored sweets of whose nature were for him alone? Into his life of loneliness,
of lovelessness, of despair--a life from which everyone who had really cared for him had been
snatched by untimely death and shut away from him forever in an early grave--a life where there
had been not only sorrow, but bitterness--where there had been pain and want and homelessness
and desolate wanderings and longings for the unattainable--where there had been misunderstanding
and distrust and temptation and defeat--into such a life this wee bit of maidenhood--this true
heartsease--had crept and blossomed, filling heart and life with beauty and hope and love--with
blessed healing.

How could he leave her? To others she seemed wrapped in timid reserve. He only had the key
to the fair realm of her unfolding mind. How could he bear to leave her for even a little while?
How barren his life would be without her! How shorn of all beauty and grace!

And what would her life be without him, to whom had been offered up all her beauty and the
stored sweets of her nature? Who would guard her from other eyes, that as her beauty and charm
came to their full bloom might look covetously upon her?

For the first time (and the bare suggestion seemed profanation) it occured to him that a day
might come when, as this slip of maidenhood walked forth in her surpassing beauty and her precious
innocence and purity the eyes of a man might make note of her loveliness, her altogether desirableness--might
rest upon her with hopes of possession--and he not there to kill him upon the spot. What if
in his absence another's hand should be stretched to pluck his heartsease blossom--that left
unguarded, unprotected by him, another should snatch it, in its beauty, its purity and innocence,
to his bosom?

The thought was hell!

Faint and trembling, he gazed down upon her as they strolled along, compelling her soft eyes
to meet his anguished ones. His face was white and strained with his misery. She was pale and
trembling, too, and there was dew on the sweeping lashes, and as she lifted them and looked
into his face she trembled more. He looked upon her, tenderly marvelling to see in her at once
the loveliest of children and of women--a woman with her first grief!

There was heart-break in his voice, for himself and for her, as he murmured (brokenly) words
of love and of comfort in her ear, and in her voice as she, brokenly, answered him.

The sun was setting--a pageant in which they both were wont to take exquisite delight--but
they could not look at the glowing heavens for the heaven of love and of beautiful sorrow that
each found in the eyes of the other.

Suddenly, they knew!

The knowledge burst upon them like an illumining flood. How or whence it came they could not
tell, nor did they question--but they knew that the love they bore each other was no brother
and sister love, but that what time they had been calling each other "Buddie," and "Sissy,"
there had been growing--growing in their hearts the red, red rose of romance--the love betwixt
man and maid of which poets tell--knew that in that sweet, that sad, that wondrous eventide
the rose had burst into glorious flower.

They trembled in the presence of this sweetest miracle. The beauty and solemnity of it well
nigh deprived them of the power of speech. A divine silence fell upon them and they slowly,
softly took their way homeward through the gathering dusk, hand in hand--but with few words--to
tell the Mother.

To the widow their disclosure came as a shock. At first she thought the silly pair must be
joking--then that they were mad. Finally she realized their earnestness and their happiness
and saw that the situation was serious and must be dealt with with the utmost tact. Still,
she could hardly believe what she saw and heard. Was it possible that the demure girl talking
to her so seriously of love and marriage was her little Virginia--her baby? And that these
two should have thought of such a thing! Cousins!--Brother and sister, almost!--And with such
disparity in ages--thirteen and six-and-twenty!

She had lived long enough, however, to know that love is governed by no rules or regulations
and besides, she had kept through all the changes and chances of her checkered life, a belief
in true love as fresh as a girl's. This was too sacred a thing to be carelessly handled--only,
it was not what she would have chosen.... Yet--was it not?

A new thought came to her--a revelation--inspiration--what you will, and sunk her in deep revery.

Why was this not what she would have chosen? Why not a union between her children--her all?
Her own days were fast running out. She could not live and make a home for them always--then,
what would become of them? She would die happy, when her time came, if she could see them in
their own home, bound by the most sacred, the most indissoluble of ties--bound together until
death should part them!

She fell asleep with a heart full of thankfulness to God for his mercies.

A quite different view of the matter was taken by other members of the Poe connection in Baltimore--particularly
the men, who positively refused to regard the love affair as anything more than sentimental
nonsense--"moonshine"--they called it, which would be as fleeting as it was foolish. Their
cousin, Judge Neilson Poe, who had made a pet of Virginia, was especially active in his opposition
and brought every argument he could think of to bear upon the young lovers and upon Mrs. Clemm
in his endeavor to induce them to break the engagement; but he only succeeded in sending Virginia
flying with frightened face to "Buddie's" arms, vowing (as, much to Cousin Neilson's disgust,
she hung upon his neck) that she would never give him up, while "Buddie," holding her close,
assured her, in the story-book language that they both loved, that "all the king's horses and
all the king's men" would not be strong enough to take her from him.

CHAPTER XXI.

Midsummer found Edgar Poe in Richmond and regularly at work upon his new duties in the office
of The Southern Literary Messenger. He felt that if he had not actually reached the end of
the rainbow, it was at least in sight and it rested upon the place of all others most gratifying
to him--the dear city of his boyhood whose esteem he so ardently desired. Most soothing to
his pride, he found it, after his several ignominious retreats, to return in triumph, a successful
author, called to a place of acknowledged distinction, for all its meagre income.

The playmates of his youth--now substantial citizens of the little capital--called promptly
upon him at his boarding-house. They were glad to have him back and they showed it; glad of
his success and glad and proud to find their early faith in his powers justified, their early
astuteness proven.

All Richmond, indeed, received him with open arms and if there were some few persons who could
not forget his wild-oats at the University and his seeming ingratitude to Mr. Allan, who they
declared had been the kindest and most indulgent of fathers to him, and who did not invite
him to their homes or accept invitations to parties given in his honor, they were the losers--he
had friends and to spare.

Yet he was not happy. The ivy had been torn from the oak and there was no sweet heartsease
blossom to make glad his road--to made daily--hourly--offerings to him and him alone of the
beauty, physical and spiritual, that his soul worshipped--of beauty and of unquestioning love
and sympathy and approbation. In other words, The Dreamer was sick, miserably sick, with the
disease of longing; longing for the modest home and the invigorating presence of the Mother;
longing that was exquisite pain for the sight, the sound, the touch, the daily companionship
of the child who without losing one whit of the purity, the innocence, the charm of childhood,
had so suddenly, so sweetly become a woman--a woman embodying all of his dreams--a woman who
lived with no other thought than to love and be loved by him.

Life, no matter what else it might give, life without the soft glance of her eye, the sweet
sound of her voice, the pure touch of her hand within his hand, her lips upon his lips, was
become an empty, aching void.

After two years of the sheltered fireside in Baltimore whose seclusion had made the dream of
the Valley of the Many-Colored Grass possible, the boarding-house with its hideous clatter,
its gossip and its commonplaceness was the merest make-shift of a home. It was stifling. How
was a dreamer to breathe in a boarding-house? He was even homesick for the purr and the comfortable
airs of the old white cat!

Whenever he could he turned his back upon the boarding-house and tried to forget it, but the
clatter and the gossip seemed to follow him, their din lingering in his ears as he paced the
streets in a fever of disgust and longing. For the first time since Edgar Poe had opened his
eyes upon the tasteful homelikeness of the widow Clemm's chamber and the tender, dark eyes
of Virginia searching his face with soft wonder, the old restlessness and dissatisfaction with
life and the whole scheme of things were upon him--the blue devils which he believed had been
exorcised forever had him in their clutches. Whither should he fly from their harrassments?
By what road should he escape?

At the answer--the only answer vouchsafed him--he stood aghast.

"No, no!" he cried within him, "Not that--not that!" Seeking to deafen his ears to a voice
that at once charmed and terrified him, for it was the voice of a demon which possessed the
allurements of an angel--a demon he reckoned he had long ago fast bound in chains from which
it would never have the strength to arise. It was the voice that dwelt in the cup--the single
cup--so innocent seeming, so really innocent for many, yet so ruinous for him; for, with all
its promises of cheer and comfort it led--and he knew it--to disaster.

Bitterly he fought to drown the sounds of the voice, but the more he deafened his ears the
more insistent, the clearer, the more alluring its tones became.

And it followed him everywhere. At every board where he was a guest the brimming cup stood
beside his plate, at every turn of the street he was buttonholed by some friend old or new,
with the invitation to join him in the "cup of kindness." At every evening party he found himself
surrounded by bevies of charming young Hebes, who, as innocent as angels of any intention of
doing him a wrong, implored him to propose them a toast.

How could he refuse them? Especially when acquiescence meant escape from this horrible, horrible
soul-sickness, this weight that was bearing his spirits down--crushing them.

Therein lay the tempter's power. Not in appetite--he was no swine to swill for love of the
draught. When he did yield he drained the cup scarce tasting its contents. But ah, the freedom
from the sickness that tortured him, the weight that oppressed him! And ah, the exhilaration,
physical and mental, the delightful exhilaration which put melancholy to flight, loosed his
tongue and started the machinery of his brain--which robbed the past of regret and made the
present and the future rosy!

It was in the promise of this exhilaration that the seductiveness of the dreaded tones lay.

Even his kindly old physician, diagnosing the pallor of his cheeks and melancholy in his eyes
as "a touch of malaria," added a note of insistence to the voice, as he prescribed that panacea
of the day, "a mint julep before breakfast."

Yet he still sternly and stoutly turned a deaf ear to the voice of the charmer, while dejection
drew him deeper and deeper into its depths until one day he found he could not write. His pen
seemed suddenly to have lost its power. He sat at his desk in the office of the Messenger with
paper before him, with pens and ink at hand, but his brain refused to produce an idea, and
for such vague half-thoughts as came to him, he could find no words to give expression.

He was seized upon by terror.

Had his gift of the gods deserted him? Better death than life without his gift! Without it
the very ground under his feet seemed uncertain and unsafe!

