Roosevelt insisted, imprudently, on accompanying his son Kermit to Madrid, where he was to
marry the daughter of the American Minister. He made the trip to Spain and back, as quickly
as possible, and then he turned to politics. That year, Congress men and several Governors
were to be elected, and Roosevelt allowed himself to be drawn into the campaign. As I have
said, he was like the consummate actor who, in spite of his protestations, can never bid farewell
to the stage. And now a peculiar obligation moved him. He must help the friends who had followed
him eagerly into the conflict of 1912, and, in helping them, he must save the Progressive principles
and drive them home with still greater cogency. He delivered a remarkable address at Pittsburgh;
he toured New York State in an automobile; he spoke to multitudes in Pennsylvania from the
back platform of a special train; he visited Louisiana and several other States. But the November
elections disappointed him. The Progressive Party, if not dead, had ceased to be a real power
in politics; but Progressivism, as an influence and an ideal, was surviving under other forms.

Probably the chief cause for this wane was the putting into operation, by President Wilson
and the triumphant Democrats, of many of the Progressive suggestions which the Democratic Platform
had also contained. The psychological effect of success in politics is always important and
this accounted for the cooling of the zeal of a certain number of enthusiasts who had vociferously
supported Roosevelt in 1912. The falling-off in the vote measured further the potency of Roosevelt's
personal magnetism; thousands voted for him who would not vote for other candidates professing
his principles. Finally, other issues--the imbroglio with Mexico, for instance--were looming
up, and exciting a different interest among the American people. Before we discuss the greatest
issue of all, in which Theodore Roosevelt's career as a patriot culminated, we must recall
two or three events which absorbed him at the time and furnished evidence of vital import to
those who would appraise his character fairly.

During the campaign of 1912, his enemies resorted to all sorts of slanders, calumnies, lies,
ignoble always, and often indecent, to blacken him. On October 12th, the Iron Ore, a trade
paper edited by George A. Newett at Ishpeming, Michigan, pubished this accusation: "Roosevelt
lies and curses in a most disgusting way; he gets drunk too, and that not infrequently, and
all of his intimates know about it." When he was President, Roosevelt had appointed Newett
as postmaster, but Newett stayed by the Republican Party, and did not scruple to serve it,
as he supposed, in this way. The charge of drunkenness spread so far and, as usual, so many
persons said that where there is much smoke there must be some fire, that Roosevelt determined
to crush that lie once for all. He would not have it stand unchallenged, to shame his children
after he was dead, or to furnish food for the maggots which feed on the reputations of great
men. So he brought suit against Newett. His counsel, James H. Pound, assembled nearly two-score
witnesses, who had known Roosevelt since he left College, men who had visited him, had hunted
with him, had served with him in the Spanish War, had been his Cabinet Ministers, journalists
who had followed him on his campaigning tours, detectives, and his personal body-servant; General
Leonard Wood, and Jacob Riis, and Dr. Alexander Lambert, who had been his family physician
for a quarter of a century. This cloud of witnesses all testified unanimously that they had
never seen him drink anything stronger than wine, except as a medicine; that he took very little
wine, and that they had never seen him drunk. They also declared that he was not a curser or
blasphemer.

After listening to this mass of evidence for a week, Newett begged to withdraw his charge and
to apologize, and he confessed that he had nothing but hearsay on which to base his slanders.
Then Roosevelt addressed the court and asked it not to impose damages upon the defendant, as
he had not prosecuted the libeler with the intention of getting satisfaction in money. He wrote
one of his sisters from Marquette, where the trial was held: "I deemed it best not to demand
money damages; the man is a country editor, and while I thoroly* depise him, I do not care
to seem to persecute him." (May 31, 1913.)

* I copy "thoroly," as he wrote it, as a reminder that Roosevelt practiced the spelling reform
which he advocated.

Roosevelt had to undergo one other trial, this time as defendant. The managers of the Republican
Party-and the Interests behind them, not content with blocking his way to the nomination in
1912, wished utterly to destroy him as a political factor; for they still dreaded that, as
a Progressive, he might have a triumphant resurrection and recapture the confidence of the
American people. To accomplish their purpose they wished to discredit him as a reform politician,
and as a leader in civic and social welfare.

Roosevelt himself gave the occasion for their on slaught upon him. In supporting Harvey D.
Hinman, the Progressive candidate for the Governor of New York in 1914, he declared that William
Barnes, Jr., who managed the Republican Machine politics in that State, had a bi-partisan alliance
with the Democratic Machine in the interest of crooked politics and crooked business. Mr. Barnes,
in whose ears the word "Boss" sounded obnoxious as applied to himself, brought suit for libel,
and it came to trial at Syracuse on April 19, 1915. Mr. Barnes's counsel, Mr. Ivins, peered
into every item of Mr. Roosevelt's political career with a microscope. Mr. Barnes had, of course,
all the facts, all the traditions that his long experience at Albany could give him. And as
he dated back to Boss Platt's time, he must have heard, at first hand from the Senator, his
relations with Roosevelt as Governor. But the most searching examination by Mr. Barnes brought
him no evidence, and cross-examination, pursued for many days, brought him no more. When it
became Roosevelt's turn to reply, he showed how the Albany Evening Journal, Mr. Barnes's organ,
had profited by illegal political advertising. He proved the existence of the bi-partisan alliance
with the Democratic Machine, and showed its effects on legislation and elections. After deliberating
two days, the jury brought in a verdict in favor of Roosevelt.

The trial, which had lasted two months, and cost Roosevelt $52,000 (so expensive is it for
an honest man to defend his honesty against hostile politicians!) decided two things: first,
that Mr. Barnes was a Boss, and had used crooked methods; and next, that Theodore Roosevelt,
under the most intense scrutiny which his enemies could employ, was freed from any suspicion
of dishonest political methods or acts. As William M. Ivins, attorney for Mr. Barnes, left
the New York Constitutional Convention to try the case at Syracuse, he said with un concealed
and alluring self-satisfaction to Mr. Root: "I am going to nail Roosevelt's hide to the barn
door." Mr. Root replied: "Be sure it is Roosevelt's and not some other hide that is nailed there."

CHAPTER XXIV. PROMETHEUS BOUND

The event which put Roosevelt's patriotism to the final test, and, as it proved, evoked all
his great qualities in a last display, was the outbreak of the Atrocious World War in August,
1914. By the most brutal assault in modern times, Germany, and her lackey ally, Austria, without
notice, overran Belgium and Northeastern France, and devastated Serbia. The other countries,
especially the United States, were too startled at first to understand either the magnitude
or the possible implications of this war. He added that his first thought was of America. Any
one who analyzed his message carefully must have wondered how it was possible, in the greatest
moral issue which had ever been thrust before the world's judgment, to remain impartial "even
in thought" between good and evil. Perhaps it was right, though hardly necessary, to impress
upon Americans that they must look after their own interests first. Would it not have been
more seemly, however, especially for President Wilson, who on the previous Fourth of July had
uttered his sanctimonious tribute to the superiority in virtue of the United States to all
other nations, to urge his countrymen to put some of this virtue into practice at that crisis?

But the masses did not reason. They used his admonition to remain neutral "even in thought"
to justify them in not having any great anxiety as to who was right and who wrong; and they
interpreted his concern for "America first" as authorizing them to go about their affairs and
profit as much as they could in the warlike conditions. Some of us, indeed, took an opposite
view. We saw that the conflict, if fought to a finish, would decide whether Democracy or Despotism
should rule the earth. We felt that the United States, the vastest, strongest, and most populous
Republic in the world, pledged to uphold Democracy, should throw itself at once on the side
of the European nations which were struggling, against great odds, to save Democracy from the
most atrocious of despots. Inevitably, we were regarded as incorrigible idealists whose suggestions
ran counter to etiquette and were, after all, crazy.

For several years, Roosevelt had been a contributing editor of the Outlook, and although his
first instinct, when the Germans ravished Belgium, was to protest and then, if necessary, to
follow up our protest by a show of force, he wrote in the Outlook an approval of our taking
immediately a neutral attitude. Still, he did not let this preclude stern action later. " Three
years afterwards these sentences of his were unearthed by his enemies and flung against him;
but his dominant purpose, from the start, was too well known for any one to accuse him of inconsistency.
He assumed, when President Wilson issued his impartial "even in thought" message, that the
President must have some secret diplomatic information which would vindicate it.

As the months went on, however, it became clear to him that Mr. Wilson was pursuing towards
the European War the same policy of contradictions, of brief paroxysms of boldness, followed
by long periods of lassitude, which had marked his conduct of our relations towards the Mexican
bandits. He saw only too well, also, into what ignoble depths this policy led us. Magnificent
France, throttled Belgium, England willing but not yet ready, devastated Serbia, looked to
us for sympathy and help, and all the sympathy they got came from private persons in America,
and of help there was none. Meanwhile, the Germans undermined and gangrened the American people.
Every ship brought over their slyest and most unscrupulous propagandists, who cooperated with
the despicable German professors and other agents already planted here, and opened the sewers
of their doctrines. Their spies began to go up and down the land, without check. Count Bernstorff,
the German Ambassador, assumed to play with the Administration at Washington as a cat might
play with half a score of mice, feeling sure that he could devour them when he chose. A European
gentleman, who came from a neutral country, and called on Bernstorff in April, 1915, told me
that when he asked the Ambassador how he got on with the United States, he replied: "Very well,
indeed; we pay no attention to the Government, but go ahead and do what we please." Within
a fortnight the sinking of the Lusitania showed that Bernstorff had not boasted idly.

Roosevelt understood the harm which the German conspiracy was doing among our people, not only
by polluting their ideals, but actually strengthening the coils which the propagandists had
been winding, to strangle at the favorable moment American independence itself. We discovered
then that the process of Germanization had been going on secretly during twenty years. Since
England was the chief enemy in the way of German world domination, the German-Americans laid
themselves out to render the English odious here. And they worked to such good purpose that
the legal officers of the Administration admonished the American people that the English, in
holding up merchant vessels laden with cargoes for Germany, committed breaches against international
law which were quite as heinous as the sinking by German submarines of ships laden with American
non-combatants. They magnified the loss of a cargo of perishable food and set it against the
ferocious destruction of neutral human beings. Senator Lodge, however, expressed the clear
thought and right feeling of Americans when he said that we were more moved by the thought
of the corpse of an innocent victim of the Hun submarines than by that of a bale of cotton.

These enormities, these sins of omission and commission, of which Roosevelt declared our Government
guilty, amazed and exasperated him, and from the beginning of 1915 onward, he set himself three
tasks. He wished to expose and circumvent German machinations over here. Next, he deemed it
a pressing duty to rouse our country to the recognition that we must prepare at once for war.
He saw, as every other sensible person saw, that as the conflict grew more terrible in Europe
and spread into Asia and Africa, we should be drawn into it, and that therefore we must make
ready. He seconded the plan of General Leonard Wood to organize a camp for volunteers at Plattsburg
and other places; and what that plan accomplished in fitting American soldiers to meet and
vanquish the Kaiser's best troops, has since been proved. President Wilson, however, would
not officially countenance any preparation which, so far as the public was allowed to know
his reasons, might be taken by the Germans as an unfriendly act. Finally, Roosevelt labored
unceasingly to revive and make militant the ideals of true Americanism.

That the Germans accurately gauged that President Wilson would not sanction any downright vigorous
action against them, was sufficiently proved on May 7, 1915, when German submarines torpedoed
and sank, at two o'clock in the afternoon, the British passenger steamship Lusitania, eastward
bound, a few miles south of the Point of Kinsale on the Irish coast. With her went down nearly
thirteen hundred persons, all of them non-belligerents and more than one hundred of them American
men, women, and children. This atrocious crime the Germans committed out of their stupid miscalculation
of the motives which govern non-German peoples. They thought that the British and Americans
would be so terrorized that they would no longer dare to cross the ocean. The effect was, of
course, just the opposite. A cry of horror swept over the civilized world, and swiftly upon
it came a great demand for punishment and retribution.

Then was the moment for President Wilson to break off diplomatic relations with Germany. The
very day after the waters of the British Channel had closed over the innocent victims, President
Wilson made an address in which he announced that "a nation may be too proud to fight." The
country gasped for breath when it read those words, which seemed to be the official statement
of the President of the United States that foreign nations might out rage, insult, and degrade
this nation with impunity, because, as the rabbit retires into its hole, so we would burrow
deep into our pride and show neither resentment nor sense of honor. As soon as possible, word
came from the White House that, as the President's speech had been written before the sinking
of the Lusitania, his remarks had no bearing on that atrocity. Pride is a wonderful cloak for
cowards, but it never saves them. Perhaps the most amazing piece of impudence in Germany's
long list was the formal visit described by the newspapers which the German Ambassador, Bernstorff,
paid to Mr. Bryan, the Secretary--of State, to present to our Government the formal condolence
of Germany and him self at this painful happening. Bernstorff, we know now, planned the sinking
and gave the German Government notice by wireless just where the submarines could best destroy
the Lusitania, on that Friday afternoon. If Mr. Bryan had written this, no one would have been
astonished, because Mr. Bryan made no pretense of knowing even the rudimentary facts of history;
but that President Wilson, by profession a historian, should laud, as being always engaged
in justice and humanity, the nation which, under Frederick the Great, had stolen Silesia and
dismembered Poland, and which, in his own lifetime, had garroted Denmark, had forced a wicked
war on Austria, had trapped France by lies into another war and robbed her of Alsace-Lorraine,
and had only recently wiped its hands, dripping with blood drawn from the Chinese, was amazing!
Small wonder if after that, the German hyphenates lifted up their heads arrogantly in this
country, or that the Kaiser in Germany believed that the United States was a mere jelly-fish
nation which would tolerate any enormity he might concoct. This was the actual comfort President
Wilson's message gave Germany. The negative result was felt among the Allied nations which,
struggling against the German Monster like Laocoon in the coils of the Python, took Mr. Wilson's
praise of Germany's imaginary love of justice and humanity as a death-warrant for themselves.
They could not believe that he who wrote such words, or the American people who swallowed them,
could ever be roused to give succor to the Allies in their desperation.

Three years later I asked Roosevelt what he would have done, if he had been President in May,
1915. He said, in substance, that, as soon as he had read in the New York newspaper* the advertisement
which Bernstorff had inserted warning all American citizens from taking passage on the Lusitania,
he would have sent for Bernstorff and asked him whether the advertisement was officially acknowledged
by him. Even Bernstorff, arch-liar that he was, could not have denied it. "I should then have
sent to the Department of State to prepare his passports; I should have handed them to him
and said, 'You will sail on the Lusitania yourself next Friday; an American guard will see
you on board, and prevent your coming ashore.' The breaking off of diplomatic relations with
Germany," Roosevelt added, "would probably have meant war, and we were horribly unprepared.
But better war, than submission to a humiliation which no President of this country has ever
before allowed; better war a thousand times, than to let the Germans go on really making war
upon us at sea, and honeycombing the American people with plots on land, while our Government
shamelessly lavishes praise on the criminal for his justice and humanity and virtually begs
his pardon."

* The advertisement was printed in the New York Times of April 23, 1915.

