"Oh, come to think of it, you may save yourself the trouble; that other second has informed
M. Noir."

"H'm! I might have known it. It is just like that Fourtou, who always wants to make a display."

At half past nine in the morning the procession approached the field of Plessis-Piquet in the
following order: first came our carriage--nobody in it but M. Gambetta and myself; then a carriage
containing M. Fourtou and his second; then a carriage containing two poet-orators who did not
believe in God, and these had MS. funeral orations projecting from their breast pockets; then
a carriage containing the head surgeons and their cases of instruments; then eight private
carriages containing consulting surgeons; then a hack containing a coroner; then the two hearses;
then a carriage containing the head undertakers; then a train of assistants and mutes on foot;
and after these came plodding through the fog a long procession of camp followers, police,
and citizens generally. It was a noble turnout, and would have made a fine display if we had
had thinner weather.

There was no conversation. I spoke several times to my principal, but I judge he was not aware
of it, for he always referred to his note-book and muttered absently, "I die that France might
live."

Arrived on the field, my fellow-second and I paced off the thirty-five yards, and then drew
lots for choice of position. This latter was but an ornamental ceremony, for all the choices
were alike in such weather. These preliminaries being ended, I went to my principal and asked
him if he was ready. He spread himself out to his full width, and said in a stern voice, "Ready!
Let the batteries be charged."

The loading process was done in the presence of duly constituted witnesses. We considered it
best to perform this delicate service with the assistance of a lantern, on account of the state
of the weather. We now placed our men.

At this point the police noticed that the public had massed themselves together on the right
and left of the field; they therefore begged a delay, while they should put these poor people
in a place of safety.

The request was granted.

The police having ordered the two multitudes to take positions behind the duelists, we were
once more ready. The weather growing still more opaque, it was agreed between myself and the
other second that before giving the fatal signal we should each deliver a loud whoop to enable
the combatants to ascertain each other's whereabouts.

I now returned to my principal, and was distressed to observe that he had lost a good deal
of his spirit. I tried my best to hearten him. I said, "Indeed, sir, things are not as bad
as they seem. Considering the character of the weapons, the limited number of shots allowed,
the generous distance, the impenetrable solidity of the fog, and the added fact that one of
the combatants is one-eyed and the other cross-eyed and near-sighted, it seems to me that this
conflict need not necessarily be fatal. There are chances that both of you may survive. Therefore,
cheer up; do not be downhearted."

This speech had so good an effect that my principal immediately stretched forth his hand and
said, "I am myself again; give me the weapon."

I laid it, all lonely and forlorn, in the center of the vast solitude of his palm. He gazed
at it and shuddered. And still mournfully contemplating it, he murmured in a broken voice:

"Alas, it is not death I dread, but mutilation."

I heartened him once more, and with such success that he presently said, "Let the tragedy begin.
Stand at my back; do not desert me in this solemn hour, my friend."

I gave him my promise. I now assisted him to point his pistol toward the spot where I judged
his adversary to be standing, and cautioned him to listen well and further guide himself by
my fellow-second's whoop. Then I propped myself against M. Gambetta's back, and raised a rousing
"Whoop-ee!" This was answered from out the far distances of the fog, and I immediately shouted:

"One--two--three--FIRE!"

Two little sounds like SPIT! SPIT! broke upon my ear, and in the same instant I was crushed
to the earth under a mountain of flesh. Bruised as I was, I was still able to catch a faint
accent from above, to this effect:

"I die for... for ... perdition take it, what IS it I die for? ... oh, yes--FRANCE! I die that
France may live!"

The surgeons swarmed around with their probes in their hands, and applied their microscopes
to the whole area of M. Gambetta's person, with the happy result of finding nothing in the
nature of a wound. Then a scene ensued which was in every way gratifying and inspiriting.

The two gladiators fell upon each other's neck, with floods of proud and happy tears; that
other second embraced me; the surgeons, the orators, the undertakers, the police, everybody
embraced, everybody congratulated, everybody cried, and the whole atmosphere was filled with
praise and with joy unspeakable.

It seems to me then that I would rather be a hero of a French duel than a crowned and sceptered
monarch.

When the commotion had somewhat subsided, the body of surgeons held a consultation, and after
a good deal of debate decided that with proper care and nursing there was reason to believe
that I would survive my injuries. My internal hurts were deemed the most serious, since it
was apparent that a broken rib had penetrated my left lung, and that many of my organs had
been pressed out so far to one side or the other of where they belonged, that it was doubtful
if they would ever learn to perform their functions in such remote and unaccustomed localities.
They then set my left arm in two places, pulled my right hip into its socket again, and re-elevated
my nose. I was an object of great interest, and even admiration; and many sincere and warm-hearted
persons had themselves introduced to me, and said they were proud to know the only man who
had been hurt in a French duel in forty years.

I was placed in an ambulance at the very head of the procession; and thus with gratifying 'ECLAT
I was marched into Paris, the most conspicuous figure in that great spectacle, and deposited
at the hospital.

The cross of the Legion of Honor has been conferred upon me. However, few escape that distinction.

Such is the true version of the most memorable private conflict of the age.

I have no complaints to make against any one. I acted for myself, and I can stand the consequences.

Without boasting, I think I may say I am not afraid to stand before a modern French duelist,
but as long as I keep in my right mind I will never consent to stand behind one again.

CHAPTER IX

[What the Beautiful Maiden Said]

One day we took the train and went down to Mannheim to see "King Lear" played in German. It
was a mistake. We sat in our seats three whole hours and never understood anything but the
thunder and lightning; and even that was reversed to suit German ideas, for the thunder came
first and the lightning followed after.

The behavior of the audience was perfect. There were no rustlings, or whisperings, or other
little disturbances; each act was listened to in silence, and the applauding was done after
the curtain was down. The doors opened at half past four, the play began promptly at half past
five, and within two minutes afterward all who were coming were in their seats, and quiet reigned.
A German gentleman in the train had said that a Shakespearian play was an appreciated treat
in Germany and that we should find the house filled. It was true; all the six tiers were filled,
and remained so to the end--which suggested that it is not only balcony people who like Shakespeare
in Germany, but those of the pit and gallery, too.

Another time, we went to Mannheim and attended a shivaree--otherwise an opera--the one called
"Lohengrin." The banging and slamming and booming and crashing were something beyond belief.
The racking and pitiless pain of it remains stored up in my memory alongside the memory of
the time that I had my teeth fixed.

There were circumstances which made it necessary for me to stay through the four hours to the
end, and I stayed; but the recollection of that long, dragging, relentless season of suffering
is indestructible. To have to endure it in silence, and sitting still, made it all the harder.
I was in a railed compartment with eight or ten strangers, of the two sexes, and this compelled
repression; yet at times the pain was so exquisite that I could hardly keep the tears back.

At those times, as the howlings and wailings and shrieking of the singers, and the ragings
and roarings and explosions of the vast orchestra rose higher and higher, and wilder and wilder,
and fiercer and fiercer, I could have cried if I had been alone. Those strangers would not
have been surprised to see a man do such a thing who was being gradually skinned, but they
would have marveled at it here, and made remarks about it no doubt, whereas there was nothing
in the present case which was an advantage over being skinned.

There was a wait of half an hour at the end of the first act, and I could have gone out and
rested during that time, but I could not trust myself to do it, for I felt that I should desert
to stay out. There was another wait of half an hour toward nine o'clock, but I had gone through
so much by that time that I had no spirit left, and so had no desire but to be let alone.

I do not wish to suggest that the rest of the people there were like me, for, indeed, they
were not. Whether it was that they naturally liked that noise, or whether it was that they
had learned to like it by getting used to it, I did not at the time know; but they did like
it--this was plain enough. While it was going on they sat and looked as rapt and grateful as
cats do when one strokes their backs; and whenever the curtain fell they rose to their feet,
in one solid mighty multitude, and the air was snowed thick with waving handkerchiefs, and
hurricanes of applause swept the place. This was not comprehensible to me. Of course, there
were many people there who were not under compulsion to stay; yet the tiers were as full at
the close as they had been at the beginning. This showed that the people liked it.

It was a curious sort of a play. In the manner of costumes and scenery it was fine and showy
enough; but there was not much action. That is to say, there was not much really done, it was
only talked about; and always violently. It was what one might call a narrative play. Everybody
had a narrative and a grievance, and none were reasonable about it, but all in an offensive
and ungovernable state. There was little of that sort of customary thing where the tenor and
the soprano stand down by the footlights, warbling, with blended voices, and keep holding out
their arms toward each other and drawing them back and spreading both hands over first one
breast and then the other with a shake and a pressure--no, it was every rioter for himself
and no blending. Each sang his indictive narrative in turn, accompanied by the whole orchestra
of sixty instruments, and when this had continued for some time, and one was hoping they might
come to an understanding and modify the noise, a great chorus composed entirely of maniacs
would suddenly break forth, and then during two minutes, and sometimes three, I lived over
again all that I suffered the time the orphan asylum burned down.

We only had one brief little season of heaven and heaven's sweet ecstasy and peace during all
this long and diligent and acrimonious reproduction of the other place. This was while a gorgeous
procession of people marched around and around, in the third act, and sang the Wedding Chorus.
To my untutored ear that was music--almost divine music. While my seared soul was steeped in
the healing balm of those gracious sounds, it seemed to me that I could almost resuffer the
torments which had gone before, in order to be so healed again. There is where the deep ingenuity
of the operatic idea is betrayed. It deals so largely in pain that its scattered delights are
prodigiously augmented by the contrasts. A pretty air in an opera is prettier there than it
could be anywhere else, I suppose, just as an honest man in politics shines more than he would
elsewhere.

I have since found out that there is nothing the Germans like so much as an opera. They like
it, not in a mild and moderate way, but with their whole hearts. This is a legitimate result
of habit and education. Our nation will like the opera, too, by and by, no doubt. One in fifty
of those who attend our operas likes it already, perhaps, but I think a good many of the other
forty-nine go in order to learn to like it, and the rest in order to be able to talk knowingly
about it. The latter usually hum the airs while they are being sung, so that their neighbors
may perceive that they have been to operas before. The funerals of these do not occur often enough.

A gentle, old-maidish person and a sweet young girl of seventeen sat right in front of us that
night at the Mannheim opera. These people talked, between the acts, and I understood them,
though I understood nothing that was uttered on the distant stage. At first they were guarded
in their talk, but after they had heard my agent and me conversing in English they dropped
their reserve and I picked up many of their little confidences; no, I mean many of HER little
confidences--meaning the elder party--for the young girl only listened, and gave assenting
nods, but never said a word. How pretty she was, and how sweet she was! I wished she would
speak. But evidently she was absorbed in her own thoughts, her own young-girl dreams, and found
a dearer pleasure in silence. But she was not dreaming sleepy dreams--no, she was awake, alive,
alert, she could not sit still a moment. She was an enchanting study. Her gown was of a soft
white silky stuff that clung to her round young figure like a fish's skin, and it was rippled
over with the gracefulest little fringy films of lace; she had deep, tender eyes, with long,
curved lashes; and she had peachy cheeks, and a dimpled chin, and such a dear little rosebud
of a mouth; and she was so dovelike, so pure, and so gracious, so sweet and so bewitching.
For long hours I did mightily wish she would speak. And at last she did; the red lips parted,
and out leaps her thought--and with such a guileless and pretty enthusiasm, too: "Auntie, I
just KNOW I've got five hundred fleas on me!"

That was probably over the average. Yes, it must have been very much over the average. The
average at that time in the Grand Duchy of Baden was forty-five to a young person (when alone),
according to the official estimate of the home secretary for that year; the average for older
people was shifty and indeterminable, for whenever a wholesome young girl came into the presence
of her elders she immediately lowered their average and raised her own. She became a sort of
contribution-box.

This dear young thing in the theater had been sitting there unconsciously taking up a collection.
Many a skinny old being in our neighborhood was the happier and the restfuler for her coming.

In that large audience, that night, there were eight very conspicuous people. These were ladies
who had their hats or bonnets on. What a blessed thing it would be if a lady could make herself
conspicuous in our theaters by wearing her hat.

It is not usual in Europe to allow ladies and gentlemen to take bonnets, hats, overcoats, canes,
or umbrellas into the auditorium, but in Mannheim this rule was not enforced because the audiences
were largely made up of people from a distance, and among these were always a few timid ladies
who were afraid that if they had to go into an anteroom to get their things when the play was
over, they would miss their train. But the great mass of those who came from a distance always
ran the risk and took the chances, preferring the loss of a train to a breach of good manners
and the discomfort of being unpleasantly conspicuous during a stretch of three or four hours.

CHAPTER X

[How Wagner Operas Bang Along]

Three or four hours. That is a long time to sit in one place, whether one be conspicuous or
not, yet some of Wagner's operas bang along for six whole hours on a stretch! But the people
sit there and enjoy it all, and wish it would last longer. A German lady in Munich told me
that a person could not like Wagner's music at first, but must go through the deliberate process
of learning to like it--then he would have his sure reward; for when he had learned to like
it he would hunger for it and never be able to get enough of it. She said that six hours of
Wagner was by no means too much. She said that this composer had made a complete revolution
in music and was burying the old masters one by one. And she said that Wagner's operas differed
from all others in one notable respect, and that was that they were not merely spotted with
music here and there, but were ALL music, from the first strain to the last. This surprised
me. I said I had attended one of his insurrections, and found hardly ANY music in it except
the Wedding Chorus. She said "Lohengrin" was noisier than Wagner's other operas, but that if
I would keep on going to see it I would find by and by that it was all music, and therefore
would then enjoy it. I COULD have said, "But would you advise a person to deliberately practice
having a toothache in the pit of his stomach for a couple of years in order that he might then
come to enjoy it?" But I reserved that remark.

This lady was full of the praises of the head-tenor who had performed in a Wagner opera the
night before, and went on to enlarge upon his old and prodigious fame, and how many honors
had been lavished upon him by the princely houses of Germany. Here was another surprise. I
had attended that very opera, in the person of my agent, and had made close and accurate observations.
So I said:

"Why, madam, MY experience warrants me in stating that that tenor's voice is not a voice at
all, but only a shriek--the shriek of a hyena."

"That is very true," she said; "he cannot sing now; it is already many years that he has lost
his voice, but in other times he sang, yes, divinely! So whenever he comes now, you shall see,
yes, that the theater will not hold the people. JAWOHL BEI GOTT! his voice is WUNDERSCHOEN
in that past time."

I said she was discovering to me a kindly trait in the Germans which was worth emulating. I
said that over the water we were not quite so generous; that with us, when a singer had lost
his voice and a jumper had lost his legs, these parties ceased to draw. I said I had been to
the opera in Hanover, once, and in Mannheim once, and in Munich (through my authorized agent)
once, and this large experience had nearly persuaded me that the Germans PREFERRED singers
who couldn't sing. This was not such a very extravagant speech, either, for that burly Mannheim
tenor's praises had been the talk of all Heidelberg for a week before his performance took
place--yet his voice was like the distressing noise which a nail makes when you screech it
across a window-pane. I said so to Heidelberg friends the next day, and they said, in the calmest
and simplest way, that that was very true, but that in earlier times his voice HAD been wonderfully
fine. And the tenor in Hanover was just another example of this sort. The English-speaking
German gentleman who went with me to the opera there was brimming with enthusiasm over that
tenor. He said:

"ACH GOTT! a great man! You shall see him. He is so celebrate in all Germany--and he has a
pension, yes, from the government. He not obliged to sing now, only twice every year; but if
he not sing twice each year they take him his pension away."

Very well, we went. When the renowned old tenor appeared, I got a nudge and an excited whisper:

"Now you see him!"

But the "celebrate" was an astonishing disappointment to me. If he had been behind a screen
I should have supposed they were performing a surgical operation on him. I looked at my friend--to
my great surprise he seemed intoxicated with pleasure, his eyes were dancing with eager delight.
When the curtain at last fell, he burst into the stormiest applause, and kept it up--as did
the whole house--until the afflictive tenor had come three times before the curtain to make
his bow. While the glowing enthusiast was swabbing the perspiration from his face, I said:

"I don't mean the least harm, but really, now, do you think he can sing?"

"Him? NO! GOTT IM HIMMEL, ABER, how he has been able to sing twenty-five years ago?" [Then
pensively.] "ACH, no, NOW he not sing any more, he only cry. When he think he sing, now, he
not sing at all, no, he only make like a cat which is unwell."

Where and how did we get the idea that the Germans are a stolid, phlegmatic race? In truth,
they are widely removed from that. They are warm-hearted, emotional, impulsive, enthusiastic,
their tears come at the mildest touch, and it is not hard to move them to laughter. They are
the very children of impulse. We are cold and self-contained, compared to the Germans. They
hug and kiss and cry and shout and dance and sing; and where we use one loving, petting expression,
they pour out a score. Their language is full of endearing diminutives; nothing that they love
escapes the application of a petting diminutive--neither the house, nor the dog, nor the horse,
nor the grandmother, nor any other creature, animate or inanimate.

In the theaters at Hanover, Hamburg, and Mannheim, they had a wise custom. The moment the curtain
went up, the light in the body of the house went down. The audience sat in the cool gloom of
a deep twilight, which greatly enhanced the glowing splendors of the stage. It saved gas, too,
and people were not sweated to death.

When I saw "King Lear" played, nobody was allowed to see a scene shifted; if there was nothing
to be done but slide a forest out of the way and expose a temple beyond, one did not see that
forest split itself in the middle and go shrieking away, with the accompanying disenchanting
spectacle of the hands and heels of the impelling impulse--no, the curtain was always dropped
for an instant--one heard not the least movement behind it--but when it went up, the next instant,
the forest was gone. Even when the stage was being entirely reset, one heard no noise. During
the whole time that "King Lear" was playing the curtain was never down two minutes at any one
time. The orchestra played until the curtain was ready to go up for the first time, then they
departed for the evening. Where the stage waits never reach two minutes there is no occasion
for music. I had never seen this two-minute business between acts but once before, and that
was when the "Shaughraun" was played at Wallack's.

I was at a concert in Munich one night, the people were streaming in, the clock-hand pointed
to seven, the music struck up, and instantly all movement in the body of the house ceased--nobody
was standing, or walking up the aisles, or fumbling with a seat, the stream of incomers had
suddenly dried up at its source. I listened undisturbed to a piece of music that was fifteen
minutes long--always expecting some tardy ticket-holders to come crowding past my knees, and
being continuously and pleasantly disappointed--but when the last note was struck, here came
the stream again. You see, they had made those late comers wait in the comfortable waiting-parlor
from the time the music had begun until it was ended.

It was the first time I had ever seen this sort of criminals denied the privilege of destroying
the comfort of a house full of their betters. Some of these were pretty fine birds, but no
matter, they had to tarry outside in the long parlor under the inspection of a double rank
of liveried footmen and waiting-maids who supported the two walls with their backs and held
the wraps and traps of their masters and mistresses on their arms.

We had no footmen to hold our things, and it was not permissible to take them into the concert-room;
but there were some men and women to take charge of them for us. They gave us checks for them
and charged a fixed price, payable in advance--five cents.

In Germany they always hear one thing at an opera which has never yet been heard in America,
perhaps--I mean the closing strain of a fine solo or duet. We always smash into it with an
earthquake of applause. The result is that we rob ourselves of the sweetest part of the treat;
we get the whiskey, but we don't get the sugar in the bottom of the glass.

Our way of scattering applause along through an act seems to me to be better than the Mannheim
way of saving it all up till the act is ended. I do not see how an actor can forget himself
and portray hot passion before a cold still audience. I should think he would feel foolish.
It is a pain to me to this day, to remember how that old German Lear raged and wept and howled
around the stage, with never a response from that hushed house, never a single outburst till
the act was ended. To me there was something unspeakably uncomfortable in the solemn dead silences
that always followed this old person's tremendous outpourings of his feelings. I could not
help putting myself in his place--I thought I knew how sick and flat he felt during those silences,
because I remembered a case which came under my observation once, and which--but I will tell
the incident:

One evening on board a Mississippi steamboat, a boy of ten years lay asleep in a berth--a long,
slim-legged boy, he was, encased in quite a short shirt; it was the first time he had ever
made a trip on a steamboat, and so he was troubled, and scared, and had gone to bed with his
head filled with impending snaggings, and explosions, and conflagrations, and sudden death.
About ten o'clock some twenty ladies were sitting around about the ladies' saloon, quietly
reading, sewing, embroidering, and so on, and among them sat a sweet, benignant old dame with
round spectacles on her nose and her busy knitting-needles in her hands. Now all of a sudden,
into the midst of this peaceful scene burst that slim-shanked boy in the brief shirt, wild-eyed,
erect-haired, and shouting, "Fire, fire! JUMP AND RUN, THE BOAT'S AFIRE AND THERE AIN'T A MINUTE
TO LOSE!" All those ladies looked sweetly up and smiled, nobody stirred, the old lady pulled
her spectacles down, looked over them, and said, gently:

"But you mustn't catch cold, child. Run and put on your breastpin, and then come and tell us
all about it."

It was a cruel chill to give to a poor little devil's gushing vehemence. He was expecting to
be a sort of hero--the creator of a wild panic--and here everybody sat and smiled a mocking
smile, and an old woman made fun of his bugbear. I turned and crept away--for I was that boy--and
never even cared to discover whether I had dreamed the fire or actually seen it.

I am told that in a German concert or opera, they hardly ever encore a song; that though they
may be dying to hear it again, their good breeding usually preserves them against requiring
the repetition.

Kings may encore; that is quite another matter; it delights everybody to see that the King
is pleased; and as to the actor encored, his pride and gratification are simply boundless.
Still, there are circumstances in which even a royal encore--

But it is better to illustrate. The King of Bavaria is a poet, and has a poet's eccentricities--with
the advantage over all other poets of being able to gratify them, no matter what form they
may take. He is fond of opera, but not fond of sitting in the presence of an audience; therefore,
it has sometimes occurred, in Munich, that when an opera has been concluded and the players
were getting off their paint and finery, a command has come to them to get their paint and
finery on again. Presently the King would arrive, solitary and alone, and the players would
begin at the beginning and do the entire opera over again with only that one individual in
the vast solemn theater for audience. Once he took an odd freak into his head. High up and
out of sight, over the prodigious stage of the court theater is a maze of interlacing water-pipes,
so pierced that in case of fire, innumerable little thread-like streams of water can be caused
to descend; and in case of need, this discharge can be augmented to a pouring flood. American
managers might want to make a note of that. The King was sole audience. The opera proceeded,
it was a piece with a storm in it; the mimic thunder began to mutter, the mimic wind began
to wail and sough, and the mimic rain to patter. The King's interest rose higher and higher;
it developed into enthusiasm. He cried out:

"It is very, very good, indeed! But I will have real rain! Turn on the water!"

The manager pleaded for a reversal of the command; said it would ruin the costly scenery and
the splendid costumes, but the King cried:

"No matter, no matter, I will have real rain! Turn on the water!"

So the real rain was turned on and began to descend in gossamer lances to the mimic flower-beds
and gravel walks of the stage. The richly dressed actresses and actors tripped about singing
bravely and pretending not to mind it. The King was delighted--his enthusiasm grew higher.
He cried out:

"Bravo, bravo! More thunder! more lightning! turn on more rain!"

The thunder boomed, the lightning glared, the storm-winds raged, the deluge poured down. The
mimic royalty on the stage, with their soaked satins clinging to their bodies, slopped about
ankle-deep in water, warbling their sweetest and best, the fiddlers under the eaves of the
stage sawed away for dear life, with the cold overflow spouting down the backs of their necks,
and the dry and happy King sat in his lofty box and wore his gloves to ribbons applauding.

"More yet!" cried the King; "more yet--let loose all the thunder, turn on all the water! I
will hang the man that raises an umbrella!"

When this most tremendous and effective storm that had ever been produced in any theater was
at last over, the King's approbation was measureless. He cried:

"Magnificent, magnificent! ENCORE! Do it again!"

But the manager succeeded in persuading him to recall the encore, and said the company would
feel sufficiently rewarded and complimented in the mere fact that the encore was desired by
his Majesty, without fatiguing him with a repetition to gratify their own vanity.

During the remainder of the act the lucky performers were those whose parts required changes
of dress; the others were a soaked, bedraggled, and uncomfortable lot, but in the last degree
picturesque. The stage scenery was ruined, trap-doors were so swollen that they wouldn't work
for a week afterward, the fine costumes were spoiled, and no end of minor damages were done
by that remarkable storm.

It was a royal idea--that storm--and royally carried out. But observe the moderation of the
King; he did not insist upon his encore. If he had been a gladsome, unreflecting American opera-audience,
he probably would have had his storm repeated and repeated until he drowned all those people.

CHAPTER XI

[I Paint a "Turner"]

The summer days passed pleasantly in Heidelberg. We had a skilled trainer, and under his instructions
we were getting our legs in the right condition for the contemplated pedestrian tours; we were
well satisfied with the progress which we had made in the German language, [1. See Appendix
D for information concerning this fearful tongue.] and more than satisfied with what we had
accomplished in art. We had had the best instructors in drawing and painting in Germany--Haemmerling,
Vogel, Mueller, Dietz, and Schumann. Haemmerling taught us landscape-painting. Vogel taught
us figure-drawing, Mueller taught us to do still-life, and Dietz and Schumann gave us a finishing
course in two specialties--battle-pieces and shipwrecks. Whatever I am in Art I owe to these
men. I have something of the manner of each and all of them; but they all said that I had also
a manner of my own, and that it was conspicuous. They said there was a marked individuality
about my style--insomuch that if I ever painted the commonest type of a dog, I should be sure
to throw a something into the aspect of that dog which would keep him from being mistaken for
the creation of any other artist. Secretly I wanted to believe all these kind sayings, but
I could not; I was afraid that my masters' partiality for me, and pride in me, biased their
judgment. So I resolved to make a test. Privately, and unknown to any one, I painted my great
picture, "Heidelberg Castle Illuminated"--my first really important work in oils--and had it
hung up in the midst of a wilderness of oil-pictures in the Art Exhibition, with no name attached
to it. To my great gratification it was instantly recognized as mine. All the town flocked
to see it, and people even came from neighboring localities to visit it. It made more stir
than any other work in the Exhibition. But the most gratifying thing of all was, that chance
strangers, passing through, who had not heard of my picture, were not only drawn to it, as
by a lodestone, the moment they entered the gallery, but always took it for a "Turner."

Apparently nobody had ever done that. There were ruined castles on the overhanging cliffs and
crags all the way; these were said to have their legends, like those on the Rhine, and what
was better still, they had never been in print. There was nothing in the books about that lovely
region; it had been neglected by the tourist, it was virgin soil for the literary pioneer.

Meantime the knapsacks, the rough walking-suits and the stout walking-shoes which we had ordered,
were finished and brought to us. A Mr. X and a young Mr. Z had agreed to go with us. We went
around one evening and bade good-by to our friends, and afterward had a little farewell banquet
at the hotel. We got to bed early, for we wanted to make an early start, so as to take advantage
of the cool of the morning.

We were out of bed at break of day, feeling fresh and vigorous, and took a hearty breakfast,
then plunged down through the leafy arcades of the Castle grounds, toward the town. What a
glorious summer morning it was, and how the flowers did pour out their fragrance, and how the
birds did sing! It was just the time for a tramp through the woods and mountains.

