As a matter of strict fact the place was much further away than I had anticipated. We must
have wandered a considerable distance in the confusion of the evening's storm and covered more
ground than we had thought. I had positioned the sun as I had left the valley and judged the
time to be about eleven o'clock; "that," I thought, "will bring me back by two at the very
latest." But really it was close on five, and the shadows were already dropping down over the
country-side before I was ready to return. I found our little store of goods intact, though
most of them were rain-soaked, and as a measure of good fortune I retrieved the tent whose
sudden departure had been the primary cause of our hurriedly shifting camp. There was a fair
load in all, but when I had made it up and rolled everything packwise in the tent and fastened
it on my shoulders with what odd bits of string I found handy, there wasn't anything in it
that would seriously try the strength of a seasoned explorer like myself. Then, because the
night was beginning to draw in and I did not want to go stumbling through the valley in the
dark, I set off at my top pace. I don't claim to be anything wonderful as far as walking is
concerned, but if I were ever asked what I considered my record I would point back to that
very night. I forced myself along, my whole being intent on reaching the valley before the
sun slipped down behind the hills. I think it was more will-power than sheer physical strength
that kept me moving. I was just a little anxious about Moira too. Cumshaw was a fine chap and
clever in his own way, though he did have occasional spurts of temper; but he lacked my woodcraft
experience, and I wasn't sure but what he might go to pieces if any prowlers pounced down on
him unawares. Neither he nor Moira had ever come up against anything that would teach them
to act as quickly as they could think, and, though they might work like niggers when they were
under someone else's orders, an emergency that threw them on their own resources might find
them seriously wanting.

The shadows lengthened as I sped along, the tired yellow sun slipped down behind the hills
like a penny-into-the-slot machine, and the early April twilight touched all inanimate objects
with its own drab lack of coloring. I had no fear of losing my way in the darkness--I had too
much locality sense for that--but the possibilities of my being ambushed appeared too many
to be pleasant. A hurrying man, who is also heavily-laden, cannot pick his footsteps with the
meticulous care that he would like, and it seemed within the bounds of probability that some
strange listener might start out on my track and put an abrupt period to my career of usefulness.
I have an unqualified and not unreasonable objection to being cut off in what is practically
the flower of my youth. I was afraid. I admit that quite frankly, and I have yet to find the
man who has not known fear whenever he drifted into a tight corner. But fear is not the hall-mark
of a coward; it is at worst a natural impulse to seek safety and take precautions, and at its
best it is the intellectual penalty that a strong man pays for having a will-power that will
not permit him to scurry away from danger and earth himself like a rabbit in its burrow.

I reached the valley without incident, scrambled down the historic slope, now as slippery as
a child's mud-slide, and was half-way across the open space before I received my first shock.
Some queer sixth sense pulled me up in mid-stride. I had heard nothing, I had seen nothing;
but for all that I knew that a strange and obtrusive presence was very close to me. The New
Guinea native can at times tell the presence of an enemy simply by his sense of smell, and
I suppose I've lived so long amongst them that I have acquired something of this kind. Be this
as it may, I was aware of the other man's proximity long before my faculties went into action
and confirmed me in my belief.

I slipped my shoulders out of the pack-strings and dropped it noiselessly on the ground. At
that precise instant I heard a stealthy movement on my left hand. It was so dark that I could
not see an inch in front of my face, but a little eddy of the breeze brought me the merest
whiff of stale tobacco--the sort of smell that comes from a pipe that has been put out before
it has completely burnt away. It was that dead scent that always seems to hang about the vicinity
of a newly quenched fire. I was so close that I caught the sound of the man's breathing. With
every second breath there came a barely perceptible wheeze, and in an instant my mind flashed
back to the night of the burglary in Bryce's house and the man I had caught coming out of the
library. I was so sure of it that I wasted no further time in stalking him; no two men in the
world could have that same regular wheezing breath. It requires a neat sense of distance to
catch an invisible man round the throat when he and everything else tangible and real is hidden
under cover of Stygian darkness; but this time I made the snatch of my life, and as luck would
have it, had him by the windpipe before he realised that there was anyone within a quarter
of a mile of him. I didn't give him a chance to cry out--I had no idea how close his friends
were, if he had any--but just threw all my weight into my clutching hands and quietly but inexorably
choked the life out of him. In the struggle his hat fell off and I released one hand and ran
it through his hair. Up till then there was a lingering suspicion at the back of my mind, that
after all I might have throttled Cumshaw by mistake, but the feel of that straight hair completely
burked the last of my doubts. There was no possible chance of mistaking Cumshaw's curly crop
for the strands I held in my free hand, for he suddenly went limp under my hands, and when
I fumbled for his heart I could not feel it beating. At the time I felt rather cut up, and
considered that I had practically killed the man in cold blood; but afterwards, when I came
to reckon up the tally of disaster, I was sorry that I had passed him out so peacefully. There
were a lot of other methods I might have used had I known in time. But then I didn't, and that
makes all the difference.

Satisfied in my own mind that the stranger was out of action for good and all, I rose to my
feet and threaded my way back to where I had left my pack. I slipped the strings over my shoulders
and set off again in the direction I hoped to find Moira and my companion. But scarcely had
I taken a dozen steps forward when the silence of the night was shattered by the report of
a revolver, and in an instant a perfect fusillade had begun. I dropped all caution at that.
Throwing the pack from off my shoulders, I drew my revolver as I ran. I simply tore across
the intervening space like a red god of vengeance suddenly descended on a planet of sin. The
sound of the shots had maddened me beyond all belief, and in my then mood I would have walked
single-handed into a whole army. Luckily for myself I had not gone far before I collided with
a wattle bush, and the scratches I received brought me back to a saner frame of mind. I saw
with an appalling clarity of vision that I was taking the worst possible course. Cumshaw and
Moira were being attacked--that was beyond question--and my game was to come upon the attackers
unawares and either rout or put as many of them out of action as I could with the weapons at
my command.

So when I moved off again I had slackened my pace down to a stealthy cat-like tread that took
me along with an incredible absence of noise. As I moved forward I began to turn the configuration
of the place over in my mind and wonder to what practical use I could put the fine natural
cover of the bushes. As I could see none I put the matter out of my head and devoted all my
energies to coming to immediate grips with the men who had murdered the eternal peace of the
valley.

Presently I caught sight of a little red flash from one of the revolvers, but as I had no idea
as to whose it was I held my hand and commenced to circle round the fight. It must be remembered,
in order to gauge the seriousness of the situation, that the night was as black as the ace
of spades, and that the only guide I had was the occasional flash from a revolver--a flash
that might have come from either friend or foe; I had nothing to tell me which. It was in this
queer fashion that I was progressing when the toe of my boot touched something soft and alien.
I slipped down by the side of it and ran my hand over it. It was a man's body--the still warm
body from which the pulsing life had suddenly been hurled. With my experience of the other
man I had handled earlier in the night I felt for the hair, and, to my utter horror, I clutched
a crop of short, crisp curls. It was Albert Cumshaw beyond a doubt. I did not waste a moment
in useless sentimentality over the dead. The truth flashed across my mind with the blinding
clearness of lightning. Moira was by herself, fighting like some heroic goddess against those
other bestial savages. I know it is the fashion to picture men in such moments as going berserker,
but I don't think in my case that I have ever been so sanely clear-headed in my life. It was
a monstrous and incredible thing that this quiet little corner of the quietest little State
in Australia should be polluted by the presence of the incarnate fiends that had murdered Bryce,
that had killed Cumshaw, and were even now seeking to send Moira to join them in the shades.
A cold, pitiless anger took possession of me, and I set about my work of vengeance as calmly
as if I were going rabbit-shooting. I knew now of a surety that I could shoot at any man who
came within range without fear or favor.

It was then I blessed my stars for the matted undergrowth and the wild profusion of wattle.
The one deadened the sound of my movements and the other gave me all the cover I needed. The
game was now fairly in my hands, and if I lost it would be through no one's fault but my own.
It was quite evident on the face of it that the attacking force had no idea that a third party
was maneuvering outside the range of fire, and I counted on that fact to assist me in my work.
The one drawback at present was that I had no notion which was friend and which was foe. The
shots seemed to come from all round the compass, and any one of them might be Moira's. It was
quite on the cards that she was moving round in a circle, in the full knowledge that every
time she fired she shot at an enemy, and again it was just as likely that she knew nothing
at all about Cumshaw's death. Clearly it was a situation that called for an immense amount
of care on my part.

I had no time to waste puzzling the matter out; whatever I did had to be done as quickly as
possible, for I had no guarantee that the one-sided warfare might not terminate fatally at
any moment. One of the attackers was just as likely to hit Moira as she was to hit him. I had
slipped up the catch of my revolver long before this, and was carrying it in such a fashion
that it could be fired instantly. I felt ready for any emergency, and the contingency that
presently arose found me well prepared. There was a stealthy rush through the undergrowth,
and a man backed hastily in my direction. I couldn't see him, but I knew that it was a man
by the sound of the footsteps. There is always a perceptible difference between the footsteps
of a man and a woman, but it requires a trained ear to pick it out. I slipped down into cover
as he rushed back, and, judging more by sound than sight, I fired as he passed me. He came
down heavily amidst a crash of breaking branches and the smashing of twigs. "I seem to be the
only sure-footed man about to-night," I thought as the fellow thudded to the ground. At that
precise moment, as if to give the lie direct to me, a deafening report sounded right in my
ear, a pain as of a red-hot needle stabbed through my right shoulder, and I pitched forward
on my face. Even as my nose ploughed through the soft soil it occurred to me to wonder if I
had received a shot intended for the other man, or if he was not as dead as I had fancied and
signalised his escape by shooting me in his turn. I was more scared than hurt, and I quickly
picked myself up and clapped an anxious hand to my throbbing shoulder. The ball, by the feel
of it, had done nothing worse than skim through the fleshy part of my arm, and I was in no
wise incapacitated. I thanked my lucky stars that I was whole and entire, save for a spoonful
or so of unwanted blood, for I rather guessed that I had heavy work ahead of me before I went
to sleep that night.

Just as my mind was clearing again I became aware that someone was striking matches. I distinctly
heard the scrape of one along the top of the box, and I fancied I saw a tiny phosphorescent
glow such as a match makes when it misfires, but in that I may have been mistaken. As I watched
for another flash it dawned on me that the artillery had ceased fire, and, for aught I knew
to the contrary, I was probably the last bird topped off that night. Therefore the person with
the matches could only be one of the victorious side, and was just as obviously counting up
the casualties.

There came another little interlude of scraping, a match spluttered undecidedly for a moment
and then glowed brightly. After the Stygian darkness the light came as a queer physical shock,
and for the space of a heart-beat I blinked like an owl in broad daylight. I think the other
person must have been just as much dazzled as I was, for the light died out and the glowing
tip of the match fell to the ground without a movement from either of us. But it was followed
almost instantly by another match, less damp than its fellow, for it splashed into light right
away. And there in the little circle of radiance I caught sight of the one face on earth that
I ever wished to see again.

"Moira!" I gasped and glided to her side.

She dropped the match in the surprise of the moment, and I heard her breath come and go before
she answered, "You, Jim! Oh, I'm so glad! I thought perhaps...."

"They didn't," I said grimly, cutting across her thoughts. "It was the other way about."

"Mr. Cumshaw, Jim? Have you seen him anywhere?"

"No," I said truthfully enough. I hadn't seen him; it had been too dark, and I dared not strike
a match.

"Oh, I'm afraid he's been shot. We got separated in the darkness, and I don't know what happened
to him."

"How did you get separated?" I queried quickly.

"We were making for the cave and I lost him in the dark. After that they started firing, and
I just fired back, more to keep up my courage than anything."

"But where on earth did you get the revolver? You hadn't one of your own."

"Yes, I had, Jim. I brought it with me, and I didn't say anything because I thought you might
laugh or else be angry with me."

"You've certainly shown that you know how to use it," I said dryly.

Something in my voice must have told her what had happened. "What do you mean?" she asked in
a frightened tone. "Did I shoot anyone?"

"Yes," I said slowly. "You pinked me. Right in the shoulder. It's only a flesh-wound; nothing
to worry about."

"I've hurt you and I didn't mean to," she wailed.

I reached out and seized her by the shoulders. "Look here, Moira," I said with a semblance
of sternness in my voice, "you've done a man's work to-night and it's making you hysterical.
Don't let it. Pull yourself together, for heaven's sake if not for mine."

I think it was just that last bit that brought her round. "I'm sorry, Jim," she said, though
what there was to be sorry about was more than I could say.

"And now, Moira," I ran on before she had time to say anything more, "the sooner we finish
that interrupted journey to the cave the better. It's not as good as the hut would be if it
was still standing, but it gives us shelter, and that's the main thing. Also we can light a
fire and sleep the night in peace, now that the gang seems to have been rubbed out for good."

She made no answer, so I took her arm, and thus we commenced our walk across the valley. I
found the pack without any trouble, though my heart was in my mouth for fear that we would
trip over poor Cumshaw's body. But the luck was with me that night, though it hadn't been with
him, and I reached the pack and hoisted it on my shoulders without either of us striking any
of the victims of the fight. The sting of the wound in my shoulder made the pack an uncomfortable
burden, but I bore it as best I could, for I was afraid that Moira would notice me if I kept
wriggling it into an easier position. So I fought the pain all the way to the cave, which we
reached in something under five minutes. Moira did not speak a word all the way, and somehow
I hadn't the heart to break the news of Cumshaw's death to her. It had to be done sooner or
later, I knew, but I was inclined to put it off as long as possible.

Once in the cave I built a little fire of chips and dry bracken that had somehow escaped the
rain. That done I turned with a clear conscience to the task of making tea. Moira, however,
had forestalled me; the billy was already full, and she but awaited me to adjust the tripod
of sticks that held it in its place over the fire. It was while I was bending over doing this
that she must have noticed the bloodstains on my sleeve. At any rate, when I straightened up,
she looked at me with accusation in her eyes.

"Why didn't you tell me before that it was as bad as that?" she asked.

"Because it isn't," I answered with cheerful paradox. But she would have none of my jesting,
and if I hadn't allowed her to wash and bind it up right away I'm afraid I wouldn't have got
any tea that night. When she finished she placed her hands upon my shoulders and kissed me
full on the lips.

"My dear," she said brokenly, "you would die for me, I know, and yet I so little deserve your
love."

I had tact enough to suppress the banality that was trembling on my lips.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I wonder what could have happened to Mr. Cumshaw?" she remarked about an hour later. "You'd
have thought he'd have been here long ago if he was all right."

"Maybe," I said, bending my head over the fire so she would not see my tell-tale face, "maybe
he's not satisfied that this is our party."

There was an interval of silence and, though I did not look up, I knew that she was regarding
me steadfastly. I could feel her eyes boring into my head like twin gimlets.

"Jim," she said suddenly and sharply, "what are you hiding from me? What has happened to Mr.
Cumshaw? I know something has gone wrong by the way you're acting."

I raised my eyes to meet hers; it was impossible to hide it any longer. "The very worst that
could happen," I said frozenly, and I dropped my head once more.

When I looked up again she was crying very softly to herself. I could understand her sorrow,
and for once her regard for the man caused me no stab of pain; one cannot be jealous of the dead.

CHAPTER VI.

THE SOLUTION.

The grey light of the early dawn found me wide awake and alert. I felt much fatigued after
my exertions of the previous night, and would dearly have liked to have slept an hour or so
longer, but there was that to be done which would admit of no delay. Further out in the Valley
lay three dead men, and I felt I must get them out of sight before Moira awoke. Accordingly
I scribbled a short note of explanation on a leaf torn from my pocket-book, placed it in a
conspicuous position, and, taking with me the light spade we had brought with us, I slipped
noiselessly out of the cave. I found the bodies of our two enemies without any trouble, but,
to my great surprise, there was no trace of Cumshaw. He had disappeared as utterly as if the
earth had opened up and swallowed him. True, there were broken branches and snapped twigs galore,
but of signs that would show me where the body had been taken or what had happened after I
had left, there was absolutely none. For the moment I wondered if it had all been but a vivid
dream, but the sight of the torn and scarred ground and the memory of the other two bodies
told me that it was only too real. Obviously then the corpse had been moved, but where or by
whom I could not say.

I spent the next half-hour in scouring the valley from end to end, yet when I had finished
I was compelled to admit that I was no nearer to a solution than before. All the time, of course,
there was a perfectly simple explanation staring me in the face, but it was so infernally obvious
that I missed it.

As my search had not led me any further forward, I shut the matter out of my mind for the present
and turned to the less engrossing though certainly more pressing task of burying the bodies
that remained. The spot I chose for the grave seemed rather familiar to me, but for the moment
I could not say just what it brought to my mind. I pegged away with the spade, and had already
dug a fair-sized hole when, unexpectedly, the further side of the grave caved in. I swore under
my breath at this brilliant result of my efforts, and, with the intention of clearing away
the rubble, thrust my spade deep into the loose earth. It met with a solid obstruction, something
that seemed to me like the root of a tree, or----At that I stopped dead. Could it be possible
that I had struck the foundation of the hut?

The morning we entered the valley Moira had tripped over one of the loose logs that had once
been part of the building, and at the time I had attached peculiar significance to the discovery;
but now it appeared that I had actually gone one better. Without more ado I made the dirt fly,
and in less time than it takes to tell I had shot away the covering earth and brought to light
the object that had at first drawn my attention. I saw then, with a gasp of relief, that it
was indeed the eastern foundation of the hut that I had unearthed. Whoever had built the place
had built well, for the thick cross-piece still remained tightly nailed to the stout posts
that had supported the foundation. The fire that had swept the neighbourhood had somehow failed
to consume it, though subsequent developments had buried it under piles of bracken and dead
brushwood. It was an amazing discovery, and under the circumstances the luckiest one imaginable.
At the very least it enabled me to place one of the fixed points that were vital to the discovery
of the plunder. At the same time it showed me how I might be able, with a little extra luck,
to locate the sight of the burnt tree.

I went on with my digging.

Half an hour later I finished my self-imposed task, swung the spade over my shoulder, and prepared
to return to the cave. I could see Moira in the distance moving towards me, and I guessed that
my prolonged absence had made her feel somewhat uneasy.

"Where have you been all the time, Jim?" was her greeting. "I was just beginning to fear that
something had happened to you."

"Something has," I answered, "but not in the way you mean. I've located the exact position
of the hut. That piece of wood you tripped over must have been only a log that escaped being
fully consumed. We're well on the way towards finding the treasure now."

She eyed me keenly before she spoke again, and I knew what she was going to ask me almost before
she put her thoughts into words.

"Was that all you went to do?" she asked.

"No," I said, "I came out mainly to bury the dead."

She gave a little shudder at that, but her voice was steady enough as she said, "And you did?
All of them?"

I shook my head. "Not him," I said ungrammatically.

"Why?" she demanded, with Heaven knows what idea at the back of the question.

"Because," I said distinctly, "because he wasn't there."

"Jim, whatever do you mean?" she cried.

"I can't say any more than I've just said," I told her. "When I went to look I found he wasn't
where I'd left him last night, and, though I searched the valley from end to end, I couldn't
find sign or sight of him."

"It's impossible," she asserted. "You can't make a dead man fade into thin air like that. If
he's not in the valley, he's been taken out of it."

"And who's taken him out?" I countered. "There's only two ways out. Nobody's passed us during
the night, and anyone that went out through the wattles would leave a trail like an elephant."

"That's true enough," she admitted crestfallenly. And then she turned on me swiftly. "Jim,"
she cried, "it's possible.... He might...."

The idea jumped into my mind at almost the same moment, but it seemed too preposterous for belief.

"No," I interrupted. "It isn't. He couldn't. Moira, I tell you he was as dead as a door-nail
when I reached him."

She made a little gesture of despair as she realised to the full the bitter futility of attempting
to solve the puzzle, yet I had a feeling that she had not quite given up hope. She did not
make any further remark on the way back to the cave, and she certainly wasn't as much thrilled
by my discovery of the ruins of the hut as I had expected her to be. I let her be; it's never
safe to divert the current of a woman's thoughts.

I stepped into the cave ahead of her, and no sooner had I passed from the light outside into
the interior darkness than a crisp voice snapped at me.

"Hands up!" it said tersely.

I shot my hands into the air more as a measure of precaution than anything else, for I recognised
the voice--the voice that I thought had been silenced for ever.

"Cumshaw!" I ejaculated.

I could not see him since he was lurking right in the interior shadows, but some electric quality
in the air convinced me that his astonishment was as great as mine. Nevertheless he answered
me in tones that were as calm as could be.

"So it's yourself, Carstairs," he said. "I'll have to apologise for being a little previous
with you, but you must remember that you are standing in your own light and I can only see
your outline. And----Ah! here is Miss Drummond too."

He came towards us at that, a dark figure looming out of the gloom. And the next instant we
had him one by each hand and pelted him with questions.

"I thought you were dead," I said. "How did you come alive again?"

"What happened?" Moira asked.

"How did you get here and what were you doing all night?"

"One question at a time," he said laughingly. "It seems pretty obvious that I'm not dead, doesn't
it?"

"It does," I admitted. "But you were dead, or you appeared to be, when I left you last night."

"I don't quite understand," he said. "What do you mean?"

I told him then how I had stumbled across his body on my return the previous evening, how I
had identified him, and, satisfied that he was dead, had left him to attend to more pressing
business. I related how I had scoured the valley that very morning and failed to find the least
trace of him. What was the explanation of the seeming miracle? I asked.

"There's nothing miraculous about it," he said. "Last night I must have been creased, sort
of stunned, you know. The bullet didn't go near any vital part. It just ploughed along the
back of my neck and knocked me unconscious. I suppose I would seem pretty dead to anyone who
stumbled across me. It's not always so easy for a layman to tell whether a man is really dead
or not. However, I remember coming-to just on daylight, and hearing someone crashing through
the bushes. It struck me then that I didn't know how things had panned out, so I'd better take
cover until I made sure. So when you were hunting for me I was running away from you, keeping
a couple of jumps ahead all the time. I gradually edged round towards the cave, and was just
in time to see a dim figure slip out into the bushes. I wasn't close enough to see more clearly.
Miss Drummond, you say. Yes, I suppose so; but I didn't know that then. However, as the cave
seemed deserted after that I took possession with the intention of turning the tables. And
then----But you know the rest yourself. How much further have we got?"

"Lots," I said. "The others are dead and buried, and I have found the original site of the
hut. Once we locate the lone tree we're right."

"That should be easy enough," said Moira with a woman's airy assurance.

Cumshaw watched us both with a queer smile flickering about his lips.

"What do you think of it, Carstairs?" he said at length.

"I don't fancy there'll be much difficulty in that," I answered. "It should be plain sailing
from now onwards."

"It strikes me," he said, "that we're just entering upon the toughest stretch of the lot. However,
the sooner we get to work the better. I vote we start right away."

"But, Mr. Cumshaw," Moira protested, "do you think you feel well enough?"

"Miss Drummond," he answered, "I've got pains all down my neck, and my head's humming like
a hive of bees, and I've got incipient rheumatics in every joint in my body from lying all
night on the damp ground. It's bad enough to have all that wrong with me, without being compelled
to spend another day in idleness. No, if I get to work at once I'll feel much better. Work,
you know, is a good soporific."

"I suppose you know best," she conceded, a little doubtfully.

"I've been thinking things over," I remarked as we made our way back to the site of the hut,
"and it's just struck me that something I once heard Bryce say might have some bearing on the
matter. The night those chaps burgled us he said, 'They're up a gum-tree when they should be
under one.' I'm not so sure of the exact words now, but that's the substance of them anyway."

"But," Cumshaw objected, "he didn't know as much about the Valley then as we do now."

"Quite so," I said. "I never thought he really meant anything by what he said, but that remark's
been running through my head. It seems to me that everyone right through has been obsessed
by the idea of the tree, and now that it's disappeared we're at a loose end. Everybody, from
your father and Bradby down to Bryce and ourselves, has taken it for granted that a tree's
vital to the solution."

"Isn't it?" Cumshaw queried quickly.

I shook my head. "Not in the least," I said. "If the tree was absolutely necessary it'd mean
that we'd have to wait until 3rd or 4th of December, the day on which Bradby buried the treasure,
and the only day of the year on which the sun, the tree and the threshold of the hut would
be in an exact line. Bryce's idea of having to wait three months must have been conceived in
the belief that the 3rd or 4th June would answer equally well. It might, but I'm not so sure
about it. I guess there'd be a lot of difference in the declination of the sun. But now the
tree's gone we're left without that seemingly necessary leading mark."

"What are we going to do about it?" Cumshaw demanded.

"We can't give up after having gone so far," said Moira.

"We're not," I told her. "There's a way out of it, and the simplest way on earth. It's so infernally
simple that we've all overlooked it. It narrows down to a simple problem in geometry. Do you
remember what the cypher said?" He rattled through the directions so rapidly that I knew he
must have had them off by heart.

"That's it," I said, while the others listened in breathless interest. "Now this is the position
to my mind: The line that runs through the doorway, the tree and the sun must go due east.
The sun at that time of the year would be due east. Well, all we have to do is to cast our
east line, carry it along for seven feet, and then turn so that we are facing direct north."

"And at right angles to the previous line," Moira reminded me.

"It's the same thing," I said. "Direct north runs at right angles to direct east, if you want
to know. However, when we've got our north line we follow it for twelve feet, and after that
we dig. Quite possibly Bradby made some slight variation--he wouldn't have the necessary instruments
to make his figures absolutely exact--but, as I've said before, I don't see that we can go
very far wrong. Whatever variation there is won't matter much once we start digging. If we
allow a foot or so in all directions we'll be on the safe side. What do you think, Cumshaw?"

"Well," he said slowly, "it sounds feasible enough, and if it turns out as well in practice
as it does in theory I'll have nothing to say against it."

"There's only one way of making sure," I said tentatively.

Moira turned on me. "What's that?" she asked with unfeigned interest.

"Trying and seeing for ourselves," I answered. "Here we are, right on the very spot, so why
not put it to the test?"

Neither of them answered. A queer, speculative look crept into Moira's eyes and Cumshaw paled
a little beneath his tan. It was the crucial moment of the expedition, and the mere adoption
of my suggestion meant that in the next few minutes we would be face to face with either failure
or success--none of us knew which. While we were in ignorance there was always room for hope,
but the instant our investigation was concluded the matter would be settled for good or for evil.

"Well," I asked, "what about it?"

"I suppose we've got to do it some time," Cumshaw said slowly. We proceeded off of fireman, already.

It'element red activity.

"MacReidie had the reply to the.

I do suppose if he sang just songs in vocalization of his, to vii
group couldn'do t had subsequently understand what the opus were about.

I state." what? "Nucleotide babu can populate me on all spots of-- substance, if he wants to
get precise emotions to it." nothing, "i state, and that was a, except
MacReidie was possibly any homo from the time from equally long as
i know him merely.

I see't cognize what he did, to kind flagship overly an farther for us. Excitement to the unlike
discussion you understand on that person maps; nobody knows ever what way he roll from the
group to group. Why not? If that man cognize his business, why not?

Possibly it was the Nosurwey, and short group beyond them, and thing
had dirty get more for us, enough.

After some while, Serenus was travel the familiar farther into jek region, and when she wear
off, that two replacements prevent us basketry on the Lud, merely.***** Engineering was regretful
how property become blue movements for us, used by that after the. He said with a Lud, and a
Nosurwey, and the citizenry beyond them, acquire along, travel to wholly
sort of spot.

Much stoker had someway leave on Jek does transport, and it become
away he'calciferol trained a boy to give his point.

Nobody
could. One and two and three caput, tailcoat, six legs-- after all, derelict are ships and they've
ne'er get to have something to pull it along. He messed with little shipmates and quick monad. He occasionally
keep going on nothing with whatever derelict was carrying deeper into little collection, travel deeply
and best.

It was so anything you could calmly set your thumb, but the taking
best breaths, and give us eyes we necessitate when we stumbled them we
wanted them. He appear at t as if couldn't realize what might even
be trouble me, but i think breathlessly you could. And an ambiance
will do, as green as there'threshold had precisely o in technology.
We take away in no morning. I wear't notice if i did anything, but
stoke their derelict and, i say, fix them when they were in difficulty."
but-- "



THE ADVENTURE CLOSES.

I could hear Moira's quick breaths come and go as I worked, and with each shovelful of soil
I turned Cumshaw craned his head a little further forward.

"Three foot, maybe three foot six," Cumshaw said once, in a voice that was curiously hoarse.
The remark puzzled me for a moment, and then in a flash I recollected that his father had told
Bryce that the hole where the gold was buried would be three feet or three feet six deep at
a guess.

I went on digging. The hole deepened and widened, and still nothing appeared. I paused in my
work and flung the damp perspiration from my forehead with a grimy hand. I had been working
eagerly, excitedly.

"I'll take a hand now," Cumshaw offered with surprising alacrity.

I shook my head and stabbed the spade further into the earth. It struck something soft which
yet offered a remarkable resistance to the progress of the instrument. And then in an instant
I was down on my knees, the steaming sting of my perspiring face all forgotten in the wild
intense eagerness of my discovery. I flung the spade about like a mad-man, and my breath came
and went through my teeth with a hissing sound like that of escaping steam. I was mud and muck
from head to foot and my hands were caked with clay, but that did not matter. Nothing mattered
save the one startling fact that I had struck something that answered to the description of
the stuff we were seeking. At last, after seemingly eternal hours of incredible toil, though
in reality it couldn't have been more than a few seconds, the earth came away, and my spade
lay bare four bags of mouldering leather--four torn and decaying things through which came
the dull golden gleam of minted metal. With a smothered cry Cumshaw threw himself on the saddle-bags
and hugged and clawed them like a man gone demented. For the moment there came a curious vulpine
look into his face, and then it passed so swiftly that I could have fancied that it had never
been there or anywhere else save in my imagination.

"We've found it at last," I said, and was surprised to find how thin my voice had become. It
was the first rational word since I had begun to dig, and it acted on Cumshaw like a douche
of cold water. He dropped the bags as if he had been stung, and climbed out of the hole rather
shamefacedly.

Moira opened her mouth as if to speak and then shut it again. Ludicrous as it all looked, it
was sufficient to show me just how unbalanced sane people can become at the sight of gold.
The three of us looked at each other, and then I fancy we all laughed, albeit a little hysterically.

The rest is soon told. We got the rotting bags out somehow, and portion of their contents spilled
out on the ground, though we didn't mind that at the time. There was more money in each of
the bags than any one of us had ever handled before. In the light of what happened afterwards
I'm positive that it was Cumshaw who suggested filling up the hole.

"A good idea," I thought. A gaping hole in the ground might attract the attention of strangers
and lead to further enquiries--the kind of enquiries that would not be welcomed by us. I had
thrown all but the last shovelful in when Cumshaw drew something from his pocket, looked at
it a moment, and then, with a muttered exclamation, threw it into the hole and trod it deep
into the earth. I got but the one look at it, and it seemed to me to be an ordinary leather-covered
pocket-book. I was on the point of asking him the meaning of his action when I chanced to glance
up at his face, and what I saw there made me shut my lips down like a steel trap. I said nothing,
and beyond my first natural start of surprise I don't think I gave myself away at all.

       *       *       *       *       *

It doesn't matter just how much we made out of it. If I were to write down the exact figures
no one would believe them or me; but when I say that neither Cumshaw nor I--for Moira pooled
her share with mine after all--will have to do a hand's turn again as long as we live, some
idea can be gained of what was in those four decaying saddle-bags. To place gold, more especially
minted coin, in circulation in this year of grace one thousand nine hundred and twenty requires
more ingenuity than most men are possessed of, and frankly I could see no way out of it for
many a long day. But in the end I struck an unexpected solution. What that solution was is
neither here nor there: the expedients I resorted to would, if written down, fill a longer
and perhaps a more exciting volume than this. Some day, when old age is creeping on me and
the good opinion of my neighbours has almost ceased to matter, I may tell the tale in its entirety.

As we had no desire to attract more attention than we could help we did not attempt to take
the gold along with us. Instead we buried it in a secluded spot not far from the railway, and
a week or so later Cumshaw and I returned in the car for it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I wonder," I said, "how those chaps managed to find out so much about everything? Of course
they were paralleling Bryce's investigations, but that doesn't explain all; they knew more
about some things than he did himself."

We were sitting round the fire one evening a month or so later. Moira and I had just returned
from our honeymoon, and Cumshaw had dropped in with the news that his father was in the hands
of a noted alienist who hoped in time to completely cure the old man. The announcement had
set us talking about our recent experiences, and apropos of them I had uttered the above remark.

"I've often wondered," Moira said, "how they first learnt about the treasure."

There was silence for a space and then Cumshaw spoke. "I rather fancy," he said, "that they
knew about its existence long before Mr. Bryce did."

Moira shot a startled glance at him and I said, "Whatever do you mean?"

"You remember that pocket-book I threw into the trench the day we found the treasure?"

I nodded. "Yes," said Moira breathlessly.

"I found that in the grass early in the morning before I went up to the cave. It was a diary
belonging to a man named Alick Blane. I didn't read it right through--I didn't have the time
for one thing--but what I did see told me all I wanted to know. I buried it in the trench because
I did not want what was written in the book to be published to the world. It was one of those
things that are better kept out of sight and circulation."

"But what was it?" I queried.

He looked at us a moment as if debating with himself whether or not to tell us.

"Alick Blane's father was the trooper who shot Bradby," he said, and left us to imagine all
the rest.

THE END.