The telegrams which reached Dr. Jameson between the 26th and 29th contained the same facts,
with the further information that Captain Heany was travelling by special train to him with
a message direct from the Reformers. In these circumstances it is said that Rhodes at Capetown
imagined as little as the Reform leaders at Johannesburg that Dr. Jameson would cross the frontier.
That, however, there was another point of view from which the situation might present itself
to Dr. Jameson is shown by the fact that Mr. Chamberlain, in reply to the High Commissioner's
telegram reporting the substance of Rhodes's statement to Sir Graham Bower, at once[14] inquired
of Lord Rosmead, "Are you sure Jameson has not moved in consequence of the collapse?"

         [Footnote 14: Afternoon of Monday, December 30th.]

Was Mr. Chamberlain right? Did Dr. Jameson see in the fact that the Reformers were divided
on such an issue only an additional reason for carrying out a plan which had for its object
to compel the Imperial Government to intervene in the affairs of the Transvaal before it was
too late; that is to say, before the British population had definitely committed itself to
the policy of a purged republic, but a republic under any flag but that of Great Britain? Such
a policy was not merely possible. It seemed inevitable to the vivacious French observer who
wrote, not from hearsay, but "with his eyes upon the object," in December, 1893:

     "The Transvaal will never be an English colony. The English of
     the Transvaal, as well as those of Cape Colony and Natal, would
     be as firmly opposed to it as the Boers themselves, for they have
     never forgiven England for letting herself be beaten by the Boers
     at Majuba Hill and accepting her defeat, a proceeding which has
     rendered them ridiculous in the eyes of the Dutch population of
     South Africa.... With me this is not a simple impression, but a
     firm conviction."[15]

         [Footnote 15: "John Bull & Co.," by "Max O'Rell," 1894.]

[Sidenote: Jameson's decision.]

If these were the considerations which weighed with Dr. Jameson, his decision to "ride in"
was inconsistent neither with friendship nor with patriotism. When Captain Heany had read from
his pocket-book the message from the Reformers, Jameson paced for twenty minutes outside his
tent. Having re-entered it, he announced his determination to disregard Heany's message no
less than Rhodes's telegram. It was a momentous decision to take after twenty minutes' thought.
Had he a reasonable expectation of carrying out the plan as Rhodes conceived it, in spite of
the change in the position of affairs at Johannesburg? Had he any reason to believe that Rhodes
desired him to force the insurrection in spite of his telegrams to the contrary? It is the
answers to these questions that make the Raid, as far as Dr. Jameson is concerned, an "act
of monumental folly," or a legitimate assumption of personal responsibility that is part of
the empire-builder's stock-in-trade. The answer to the second question remains a matter of
speculation. The answer to the first is to be found in the record of the expedition. Dr. Jameson
reached Krügersdorp at three o'clock on Wednesday, January 1st. A few hours before a cyclist
had brought him congratulatory messages from the Reform leaders. The goal was almost within
sight. What prevented Sir John Willoughby from taking his little force safely over the remaining
twenty miles from Krügersdorp to Johannesburg was the merest accident: the few hours' delay
caused, naturally enough, by Dr. Jameson's desire that his force should be met and escorted
by a small body of volunteers from the Rand. He did not want, as he said, to go to Johannesburg
as "a pirate." Sir John Willoughby's evidence is perfectly definite and conclusive on the point.
If the force had pushed on by road from Krügersdorp to Johannesburg on Wednesday evening--had
not, in Willoughby's words, "messed about" at Krügersdorp in expectation of the welcoming escort--Johannesburg
would have been reached in safety on Thursday morning. With Dr. Jameson in Johannesburg and
Lord Rosmead speeding northwards in his special train, the way would have been prepared for
that decisive and successful action on the part of the Imperial Government which Rhodes had
desired to bring about.

[Sidenote: Why the raid failed.]

But, unsuccessful as was the actual expedition, the decision to "ride in" had secured the intervention
of the Imperial Government. If intervention could have done what Rhodes expected of it, Dr.
Jameson's decision to "ride in" would have gained, at the cost of few lives and no increase
of the national debt, what the war gained four years later at the cost of twenty thousand lives
and £220,000,000. As it was, it failed to win the franchise for the Uitlanders. Why did not
Lord Rosmead, with so strong a Colonial Secretary as Mr. Chamberlain at his back, brush the
Raid aside, and address himself to the removal of the greater wrong that gave it birth?

[Sidenote: Mr. Chamberlain.]

It is in the answer to this question that we find the actual cause of the utter failure of
Rhodes's plan. The truth is that success in any real sense--that is to say, success which would
have strengthened British supremacy and promoted the union of European South Africa--was impossible.
The sole response which Lord Rosmead returned to Mr. Chamberlain's counsels was the weary confession:
"The question of concessions to Uitlanders has never been discussed between President Krüger
and myself." The methods employed by Rhodes were so questionable that no High Commissioner
could have allowed the Imperial Government to have derived any advantage from them. To have
gained the franchise for the Uitlanders as the result of violent and unscrupulous action, would
have inflicted an enduring injury upon the British cause in South Africa for which the enfranchisement
itself would have been small compensation. The disclosure of these methods and, with them,
of the hollowness of Rhodes's alliance with the Afrikander Bond, alarmed and incensed the whole
Dutch population of South Africa. What this meant Lord Rosmead knew, and Mr. Chamberlain did
not know. The ten years' truce between the forces of the Afrikander nationalists and the paramount
Power was at an end. To combat these forces something better than the methods of the Raid was
required. Non tali auxilio, nec defensoribus istis! No modern race have excelled the Dutch
in courage and endurance. In Europe they had successfully defended their independence against
the flower of the armies of Spain, Austria, and France. The South African Dutch were not inferior
in these qualities to the people of the parent stock. If such a race, embarked upon what it
conceived to be a struggle for national existence, was to be overcome, the hands of the conqueror
must be clean as well as strong. None the less the active sympathy with the Uitlanders exhibited
in Mr. Chamberlain's despatches was welcomed by the British as evidence that the new Colonial
Secretary was more alert and determined than his predecessors. For the first time in the history
of British administration in South Africa, Downing Street had shown itself more zealous than
Capetown. It was the solitary ray of light that broke the universal gloom in which South Africa
was enshrouded by the catastrophe of the Raid.

CHAPTER II

THE CREED OF THE AFRIKANDER NATIONALISTS[16]

         [Footnote 16: "This is our Afrikander character. The
         descendants of Hollanders, Germans and Frenchmen
         inter-married, and are only known at present by their
         surnames. They form the Afrikander nationality, and call
         themselves Afrikanders. The Afrikanders are no more
         Hollanders than Englishmen, Frenchmen, or Germans. They have
         their own language, own morals and customs; they are just as
         much a nation as any other."--De Patriot, in the course of
         an article headed "A Common but Dangerous Error"--the error
         in question being the assertion that "the Cape Colony is an
         English colony" (translated and reproduced in The Cape
         Times, September 3th, 1884).]

In the face of the colossal resistance offered to the British arms by the Boers and their colonial
kinsmen in the South African War, it may seem unnecessary to produce any evidence in support
of the contention that the military strength then displayed by the Dutch in South Africa was
the result of long and careful preparation. But the same inability to grasp the facts of the
South African situation which kept the Army Corps in England three months after it should have
been sent to the Cape, is still to be met with. This attitude of mind--whether it be a consciousness
of moral rectitude, or a mere insular disdain of looking at things from any but a British point
of view--is still to be observed in the statements of those politicians who will even now deny
that any trace of a definite plan of action, or of a concerted purpose, which could properly
be described as a "conspiracy" against British supremacy was to be found among the Dutch population
of South Africa as a whole, prior to the outbreak of the war. It is for the benefit of such
politicians in part, and still more with a view of bringing the mind of the reader into something
approaching a direct contact with the actual working of the Afrikander mind, that I transcribe
a statement of the pure doctrine of the Bond, as it was expounded by the German, Borckenhagen,
and his followers in the Free State. It will, however, be convenient to preface the quotation
with a word of explanation in respect both of the text and the personality of Borckenhagen.

[Sidenote: Carl Borckenhagen.]

The passage, which is taken verbatim from a work entitled, "The Origin of the Anglo-Boer War
Revealed," is a collection of sentences gathered from Dutch pamphlets and articles "emanating
from Holland," and translated literally into the somewhat uncouth English of the text. The
author of the work, Mr. C. H. Thomas, was for many years a burgher of the Free State, where
he shared the opinions of President Brand, and subsequently supported Mr. J. G. Fraser in opposing
the policy of "closer union" with the South African Republic, advocated by Brand's successor,
Mr. F. W. Reitz. The point of view from which the Dutch of Holland regarded the nationalist
movement in South Africa was succinctly stated in an article published by the Amsterdam Handelsblad
in 1881.

     "The future of England lies in India, and the future of Holland
     in South Africa.... When our capitalists vigorously develop this
     trade, and, for example, form a syndicate to buy Delagoa Bay from
     Portugal, then a railway from Capetown to Bloemfontein,
     Potchefstroom, Pretoria, Delagoa Bay will be a lucrative
     investment. And when, in course of time, the Dutch language shall
     universally prevail in South Africa, this most extensive
     territory will become a North America for Holland, and enable us
     to balance the Anglo-Saxon race."[17]

         [Footnote 17: Quoted by Du Toit in De Patriot: translation
         from the English reprint of De Transvaalse Oorlog.]

Carl Borckenhagen, who, with Mr. Reitz,[18] advocated the establishment of the Bond in 1881,
was a German republican. His name has been associated with Mr. Thomas's summary of the Bond
propaganda in the Free State, because, as editor of The Bloemfontein Express up to the time
of his death, early in 1898, he was probably the most consistent of all the South African exponents
of the nationalist creed. Certainly it is no exaggeration to say that he converted the Free
State of Brand into the Free State of Steyn.

         [Footnote 18: Then Judge, afterwards President of the Free
         State, and State-Secretary of the South African Republic in
         succession to Dr. Leyds.]

[Sidenote: The doctrine of the Bond.]

     "THE BOND PROGRAMME

     "The Afrikander Bond has as final object what is summed up in its
     motto of 'Afrika voor de Afrikaners.' The whole of South Africa
     belongs by just right to the Afrikander nation. It is the
     privilege and duty of every Afrikander to contribute all in his
     power towards the expulsion of the English usurper. The States of
     South Africa to be federated in one independent Republic.

     The Afrikander Bond prepares for this consummation.

     Argument in justification:--

     (a) The transfer of the Cape Colony to the British Government
     took place by circumstances of force majeure and without the
     consent of the Dutch nation, who renounced all claim in favour of
     the Afrikander or Boer nation.

     (b) Natal is territory which accrued to a contingent of the
     Boer nation by purchase from the Zulu king, who received the
     consideration agreed for.

     (c) The British authorities expelled the rightful owners from
     Natal by force of arms without just cause.

     The task of the Afrikander Bond consists in:

     (a) Procuring the staunch adhesion and co-operation of every
     Afrikander and other real friend of the cause.

     (b) To obtain the sympathy, the moral and effective aid, of one
     or more of the world's Powers.

     The means to accomplish those tasks are:

     Personal persuasion, Press propaganda, legislation and diplomacy.

     The direction of the application of these means is entrusted to a
     select body of members eligible for their loyalty to the cause
     and their abilities and position. That body will conduct such
     measures as need the observance of special secrecy. Upon the rest
     of the members will devolve activities of a general character
     under the direction of the selected chiefs.

     One of the indispensable requisites is the proper organisation of
     an effective fund, which is to be regularly sustained. Bond
     members will aid each other in all relations of public life in
     preference to non-members.

     In the efforts of gaining adherence to the cause it is of
     importance to distinguish three categories of persons:

     (1) The class of Afrikanders who are to some extent deteriorated
     by assimilative influences with the English race, whose
     restoration to patriotism will need great efforts, discretion,
     and patience.

     (2) The apparently unthinking and apathetic class who prefer to
     relegate all initiative to leaders whom they will loyally follow.
     This class is the most numerous by far.

     (3) The warmly patriotic class, including men gifted with
     intelligence, energy, and speech, qualified as leaders, and apt
     to exercise influence over the rest.

            *       *       *       *       *

     Among these three classes many exist whose views and religious
     scruples need to be corrected. Scripture abounds in proofs and
     salient analogies applying to the situation and justifying our
     cause. In this, as well as in other directions, the members who
     work in circulating written propaganda will supply the correct
     and conclusive arguments accessible to all.

     Upon the basis of our just rights the British Government, if not
     the entire nation, is the usurping enemy of the Boer nation.

     In dealing with an enemy it is justifiable to employ, besides
     force, also means of a less open character, such as diplomacy and
     stratagem.

[Sidenote: Anti-british methods.]

     The greatest danger to Afrikanderdom is the English policy of
     Anglicising the Boer nation--to submerge it by the process of
     assimilation.

     A distinct attitude of holding aloof from English influences is
     the only remedy against that peril and for thwarting that
     insidious policy.

     It is only such an attitude that will preserve the nation in its
     simple faith and habits of morality, and provide safety against
     the dangers of contamination and pernicious examples, with all
     their fateful consequences to body and soul.

     Let the Dutch language have the place of honour in schools and
     homes.

     Let alliances of marriage with the English be stamped as
     unpatriotic.

     Let every Afrikander see that he is at all times well armed with
     the best possible weapons, and maintains the expert use of the
     rifle among young and old, so as to be ready when duty calls, and
     the time is ripe for asserting the nation's rights and being rid
     of English thraldom.

     Employ teachers only who are animated with truly patriotic
     sentiments.

     Let it be well understood that English domination will also bring
     English intolerance and servitude, for it is only a very frail
     link which separates the English State Church from actual
     Romanism, and its proselytism en bloc is only a matter of short
     time.

     Equally repugnant and dangerous is England's policy towards the
     coloured races, whom she aims, for the sake of industrial profit,
     at elevating to equal rank with whites, in direct conflict with
     spiritual authority--a policy which incites coloured people to
     rivalry with their superiors, and can only end in common
     disaster.

     Whilst remaining absolutely independent, the ties of blood,
     relationship, and language point to Holland for a domestic base.

     As to commerce, Germany, America, and other industrial nations
     could more than fill the gap left by England, and such
     connections should be cultivated as a potent means towards
     obtaining foreign support to our cause and identification with
     it.

     If the mineral wealth of the Transvaal and Orange Free State
     becomes established--as appears certain from discoveries already
     made--England will not rest until these are also hers.

     The leopard will retain its spots. The independence of both
     Republics is at stake on that account alone, with the risk that
     the rightful owners of the land will become the hewers of wood
     and drawers of water for the usurpers.

     There is no alternative hope for the peace and progress of South
     Africa except by the total excision of the British ulcer.

     Reliable signs are not wanting to show that our nation is
     designed by Providence as the instrument for the recovery of its
     rights, and for the chastisement of proud, perfidious
     Albion."[19]

         [Footnote 19: P. 64 et seq. of The Origin of the
         Anglo-Boer War Revealed (Hodder & Stoughton).]

These brief and disjointed sentences present in their shortest form arguments and exhortations
with which the Dutch population of the Free State, the Transvaal, and the Cape Colony, were
familiarised through the Press, the pulpit, the platform, and through individual intercourse
and advocacy, from the time of the Retrocession in 1881 onwards. It is in effect the scheme
of a Bond "worked out more in detail by some friends at Bloemfontein," as published by Borckenhagen
in his paper, The Bloemfontein Express, on April 7th, 1881, to which Du Toit, the founder of
the Bond in the Cape Colony, referred in the pamphlet, De Transvaalse Oorlog (The Transvaal
War), which he issued from his press at the Paarl later on in the same year. The nationalist
creed, as thus formulated, was preached consistently in the Free State; but in the Cape Colony
it was modified by Hofmeyr to meet the exigencies of Colonial politics.

None the less it was in the Cape Colony that the Bond, as a political organisation, was destined
to find its chief sphere of action. In the Free State it was discouraged by President Brand,
and in point of fact the British population was too insignificant a factor in the politics
of the central republic to make it necessary to maintain a distinct organisation for the promotion
of nationalist sentiment. In the Transvaal, again, the Bond maintained no regular organisation.
And this for two reasons. Every burgher of the northern Republic was sufficiently animated
by the anti-British sentiments which it was intended to promote; and the only "constitution"
which the Transvaal Dutch would accept was one which embodied principles so flagrantly inconsistent
with submission to British authority that it could not be adopted by the branches of the Bond
in the Cape Colony without exposing its members to immediate prosecution for high treason.[20]

         [Footnote 20: Under the changed conditions of to-day the Boer
         population is organised in the Transvaal into Het Volk, and
         in the Orange River Colony into the Oranjie Unie; both
         practically identical with the Bond in the Cape Colony.]

[Sidenote: The origin of the Bond.]

In the politics of the Cape Colony, however, the Bond became the predominant force; and any
picture, however briefly sketched, of South Africa as it was when Lord Milner's administration
commenced, must include some account of the origin and methods of this remarkable organisation.

The origin of the Afrikander Bond is to be found in the articles written by the Rev. S. J.
du Toit, a Dutch predikant, in De Patriot, a newspaper published at the Paarl, of which he
was the editor. Mr. du Toit's political standpoint is sufficiently revealed by the fact that
in 1881 he claimed that De Patriot had done more than any other single agency to secure the
successful revolt of the Boers from British authority accomplished in that year. The inspiration
which drove his pen to advocate the founding of a political organisation, that should serve
to prepare the way for a more general and complete "war of independence," was the defeat of
the British troops by the Transvaal burghers.

     "This is now our time," he wrote, in the same year, "to establish
     the Bond, while a national consciousness has been awakened
     through the Transvaal War. And the Bond must be our preparation
     for the future confederation of all the States and Colonies of
     South Africa. The English Government keeps talking of a
     confederation under the British flag. That will never happen. We
     can assure them of that. We have often said it: there is just one
     hindrance to confederation, and that is the English flag. Let
     them take that away, and the confederation under the free
     Afrikander flag would be established. But so long as the English
     flag remains here the Afrikander Bond must be our confederation.
     And the British will, after a while, realise that Froude's advice
     is the best for them: they must just have Simon's Bay as a naval
     and military station on the road to India, and give over all the
     rest of South Africa to the Afrikanders."[21]

         [Footnote 21: Reprint of a pamphlet (found with the first
         leaf torn) containing an English translation of De
         Transvaalse Oorlog, p. 8.]

This general statement of the purpose of the Bond was supported by reiterated appeals to racial
passion:

     "The little respect which the Afrikander had for British troops
     and cannons [up to the Majuba defeat]," he writes, "is utterly
     done away. And England has learnt so much respect for us
     Afrikanders that she will take care not to be so ready to make
     war with us again.... The Englishman has made himself hated,
     language and all. And this is well."

[Sidenote: The objects of the Bond.]

When, by the use of these and even more violent expressions, the mind of the Dutch population
had been sufficiently aroused, Du Toit proceeded to unfold his plan of campaign. His modus
operandi is similar to that of Borckenhagen in its main features. The Bond, says De Patriot,
must boycott all English traders, except only those who are ready to adopt its principles.
English signboards, advertisements, shops and book-keepers, must be abolished. The English
banks must be replaced by a National Bank. No land must be sold to Englishmen. The Republics
must "make their own ammunition, and be well supplied with cannon, and provide a regiment of
artillery to work them." And he cheerfully notices that "at Heidelberg there are already 4,000
cartridges made daily, and a few skilful Afrikanders have begun to make shells, too. This is
right: so must we become a nation." For the Cape Colony, however, "such preparations are not
so especially necessary." But, most of all, Du Toit insists upon the need of combating the
growing use of the English language. "English education," he laments, "has done more mischief
to our country and nation than we can express." And, therefore, he urges "war" against the
English language. In the schools, in the Church, and "in our family life above all," it must
be considered a "disgrace to speak English.... Who will join the war? All true Afrikanders,
we hope."

Thus was the Bond, the child of Majuba, quickened into conscious being by the fiery pen of
the predikant, Du Toit. Poor Du Toit! His after life was a strange commentary upon this early
triumph of his brain, won in the drowsy solitudes of the Paarl. Summoned to be Director of
Education in the Transvaal, he was quickly disillusioned of his love of his Dutch mother-country
by actual intercourse with the contemptuous Hollanders whom Krüger had invited to serve the
Republic. Later, again, he was rejected by the Bond which he had himself created, and driven
to find comfort in the broad freedom of allegiance to an Empire-state.

The object of the Bond, as stated by Du Toit in De Transvaalse Oorlog, was the "creation of
a South African nationality ... through the establishment of this Bond in all states and colonies
of South Africa." Its organisation was to consist of a central governing body (bestuur), with
provincial, district, and ward besturen. The central bestuur was to be composed of five members,
two for the Cape Colony, and one each for the Transvaal, Natal, and Free State, who were "to
meet yearly in one or other of the chief towns of the component states." The provincial besturen,
consisting of one representative from each of the district besturen, were to meet every six
months at their respective colonial or state capitals.[22]

         [Footnote 22: De Transvaalse Oorlog, pp. 7 and 8.]

The first Congress of the Afrikander Bond was held at Graaf Reinet in 1882. In the draft constitution
then drawn up for the approval of its members, the relationship of the Bond to the British
Government in South Africa was defined with commendable frankness. In the "Programme of Principles"
was the article:

     In itself acknowledging no single form of government as the only
     suitable form, and whilst acknowledging the form of government
     existing at present, [the Bond] means that the aim of our
     national development must be a united South Africa under its own
     flag.

[Sidenote: Hofmeyr's influence.]

And it was upon the basis of this "Programme of Principles" that the earliest Bond organisations
were formed in the Transvaal, the Free State, and the Cape Colony. In the year following the
Graaf Reinet Congress, however, the "Farmers' Protection Association" was amalgamated with
the Bond in the Cape Colony, and the influence of Mr. J. H. Hofmeyr led the joint organisation
to adopt a modified "programme." Mr. Hofmeyr, who was destined afterwards to assume the undisputed
headship of the Bond, was an economist as well as a nationalist. He was intensely interested
in the development of the country districts, and he saw that the conditions of agriculture
could hardly be improved without the co-operation of the British and more progressive section
of the farming class. He also knew that an organisation, professing to forward aims of avowed
disloyalty, would rapidly find itself in collision with the Cape Government. With the growth
of Mr. Hofmeyr's influence the policy, though not the aims, of the Bond was changed. All declarations,
such as the clause "under its own flag," inconsistent with allegiance to the British Crown
were omitted from the official constitution, and its individual members were exhorted to avoid
any behaviour or expressions likely to prevent Englishmen from joining the organisation. As
early as 1884 the Bond secured the return of twenty-five members to the Cape Parliament, and
it was their support that enabled the Upington Ministry to maintain itself in office against
an opposition which consisted of the main body of the representatives elected by the British
population; and from this date onwards it was the recognised aim of Mr. Hofmeyr to control
the Legislature of the Colony by making it impossible for any ministry to dispense with the
support of the Bond members, although he refrained from putting a ministry of Bondsmen into
office. To have done this latter might have united the British population and their representatives
in a solid phalanx, and endangered the success of the effort to separate the British settlers
in the country districts from the more recent arrivals from England--mostly townsmen--which
remained a fruitful source of Afrikander influence up to the time of the Jameson Raid. By representing
the new British population, which followed in the wake of the mineral discoveries, as "fortune-seekers"
and adventurers and not genuine colonists, the Bond endeavoured, not merely to widen the natural
line of cleavage between the townsman and the countryman, but actually to detach the older
British settlers from sympathy with the mother country, and, by drawing them within the sphere
of Afrikander nationalist aspirations, to make them share its own antagonism to British supremacy.

[Sidenote: Merriman and the Bond.]

But, in spite of the change of policy due to Mr. Hofmeyr, the old leaven of stalwart Bondsmen
remained sufficiently in evidence to draw from Mr. J. X. Merriman--then a strong Imperialist
in close association with Mr. J. W. Leonard--a striking rebuke. The speech in question was
made, fittingly enough, at Grahamstown, the most "English" town in South Africa, in 1885. It
was reprinted with complete appropriateness, in The Cape Times of July 10th, 1899. The struggle
which Mr. Merriman had foreseen fourteen years before was then near at hand; while Mr. Merriman
himself had become a member of a ministry placed in power by the Bond for the avowed purpose
of "combating the British Government."

     "The situation is a grave one," he said. "It is not a question of
     localism; it is not a question of party politics; but it is a
     question whether the Cape Colony is to continue to be an integral
     part of the British Empire.... You will have to keep public men
     up to the mark, and each one of you will have to make up his mind
     whether he is prepared to see this colony remain a part of the
     British Empire, which carries with it obligations as well as
     privileges, or whether he is prepared to obey the dictates of the
     Bond. From the very first time, some years ago, when the poison
     began to be instilled into the country, I felt that it must come
     to this--Is England or the Transvaal to be the paramount force in
     South Africa?... Since then that institution has made a show of
     loyalty, while it stirred up disloyalty.... Some people, who
     should have known better, were dragged into the toils under the
     idea that they could influence it for good, but the whole
     teaching of history goes to show that when the conflict was
     between men of extreme views and moderate men, the violent
     section triumphed. And so we see that some moderate men are in
     the power of an institution whose avowed object is to combat the
     British Government. In any other country such an organisation
     could not have grown; but here, among a scattered population, it
     has insidiously and successfully worked.... No one who wishes
     well for the British Government could have read the leading
     articles of the Zuid Africaan, and Express, and De Patriot,
     in expounding the Bond principles, without seeing that the
     maintenance of law and order under the British Crown and the
     object they have in view are absolutely different things. My
     quarrel with the Bond is that it stirs up race differences. Its
     main object is to make the South African Republic the paramount
     power in South Africa."

This was plain speaking.

[Sidenote: Change of Bond policy.]

In the year following (1886) the Bond met officially, for the first and only time, as an inter-state
organisation. Bloemfontein was the place of assemblage, and in the Central Bestuur, or Committee,
the South African Republic, the Free State, and the Cape Colony were each represented by two
delegates. This meeting revealed the practical difficulties which prevented the Cape nationalists
from adopting the definitely anti-British programme of the Bond leaders in the Republics; and
the conflict of commercial interests between the Cape Colony and the Transvaal, already initiated
by the attempt of the latter to secure Bechuanaland in 1884-5, confirmed the Cape delegates
in their decision to develop the Bond in the Cape Colony upon colonial rather than inter-state
lines. The result of the divergences of aim manifested at Bloemfontein was speedily made apparent
in the Cape Colony. In 1887 Mr. T. P. Theron, then Secretary of the Bond, delivered an address
in which the new, or Hofmeyr, programme was formulated and officially adopted. In recommending
the new policy to the members of the Bond, Mr. Theron made no secret of the nature of the considerations
by which its leaders had been chiefly influenced.

     "You must remember," he said, "that the eyes of all are directed
     towards you. The Press will cause your actions, expressions, and
     resolutions to be known everywhere. You cannot but feel how much
     depends on us for our nation and our country. If we must plead
     guilty in the past of many an unguarded expression, let us be
     more cautious and guarded for the future."

And he then proceeded to sketch a picture of racial conciliation, when all "differences and
disagreements" between Dutch and English would be merged in the consciousness of a new and
common nationality--pointing out, however, that the advent of that day depended on "you and
me, my fellow Bond members."

[Sidenote: Rhodes and Hofmeyr.]

Assuming that the predominance of Afrikander ideals could be secured only by the complete separation
of the local governments from the Government of Great Britain, nothing could be more masterly
than the manner in which the Bond approached the task of reuniting the European communities
of South Africa--the task which the Imperial Government had abandoned as hopeless. As inspired
and controlled by Hofmeyr during the years between this date (1887) and the Jameson Raid, the
Bond embodied a volume of effort in which the most sincere supporter of the British connection
could co-operate. It was the assistance afforded by the Bond in moulding British administration
in South Africa upon South African lines that provided the common ground upon which Rhodes
and Hofmeyr met in their long alliance. Hofmeyr probably never abandoned his belief that a
republican form of government was the inevitable dénouement to which the administration of
South Africa on a basis of South African ideas must lead. Rhodes never wavered in his loyalty
to the British connection. But there was a great body of useful work which both men could accomplish
in common, which each desired to see accomplished, which, when accomplished, would leave each
free to choose the path--Republican or Imperial--by which the last stage was to be traversed
and the goal of South African unity finally attained.

The character and career of Rhodes afford material for a study of such peculiar and engrossing
interest that any adequate treatment of the subject would require a separate volume. Fortunately,
the broad facts of his life are sufficiently well known to make it unnecessary to attempt the
almost impossible task of condensing a volume within the limits of a few pages. None the less,
there is one incident in his political career which must be recalled here, and that for the
simple reason that it establishes two facts, each of which is essential to the complete understanding
of the situation in the Cape Colony as it developed immediately after the Raid. First, that
all through the years of the Rhodes-Hofmeyr alliance the Bond remained at heart true to the
aim which it had at first openly avowed--the aim of establishing a united South Africa under
its own flag. And second, that Rhodes was equally staunch in maintaining his ideal of a united
South Africa under the British flag. The incident which exhibits both these facts in the clearest
light is the refusal by Rhodes of the overtures made to him by Borckenhagen. At the time when
these overtures were made Rhodes was Prime Minister of the Cape Colony, the Chartered Company
had been successfully launched, and the alliance between himself and Hofmeyr was in full operation.
The occasion which led to them was the opening of the railway at Bloemfontein in 1890--a railway
constructed by the Cape Government under a friendly arrangement with the Free State. And it
was one, therefore, which afforded a conspicuous example of the value of the Bond influence
as a means of securing progress in the direction of South African unity. The story was told
by Rhodes himself in a speech which he made in the Cape Colony on March 12th, 1898.

[Sidenote: Rhodes and Borckenhagen.]

     "I remember," he said, "that we had a great meeting at
     Bloemfontein, and in the usual course I had to make a speech. I
     think I was your Prime Minister. And this speech pleased many
     there, and especially--and I speak of him with the greatest
     respect--a gentleman who is dead, Mr. Borckenhagen. He came to me
     and asked me to dictate to him the whole of my speech. I said, 'I
     never wrote a speech, and I don't know what I said; but I will
     tell you what I know about it.' He wrote it down, and afterwards
     came to Capetown with me.... He spoke very nicely to me about my
     speech. 'Mr. Rhodes, we want a united South Africa.' And I said,
     'So do I; I am with you entirely. We must have a united South
     Africa.' He said, 'There is nothing in the way.' And I said, 'No;
     there is nothing in the way. Well,' I said, 'we are one.' 'Yes,'
     he said, 'and I will tell you: we will take you as our leader,'
     he said. 'There is only one small thing, and that is, we must, of
     course, be independent to the rest of the world.' I said, 'No;
     you take me either for a rogue or a fool. I would be a rogue to
     forget all my history and traditions; and I would be a fool,
     because I would be hated by my own countrymen and mistrusted by
     yours.' From that day he assumed a most acrid tone in his
     Express towards myself, and I was made full sorry at times by
     the tone. But that was the overpowering thought in his mind--an
     independent South Africa."[23]

         [Footnote 23: Cecil Rhodes: His Political Life and
         Speeches. By Vindex; p. 533. Borckenhagen had just died.]

The facts here disclosed explain how it was that the apparently satisfactory situation in South
Africa before the Raid so rapidly developed into the dangerous situation of the years that
followed it. The Raid tore aside the veil which the Rhodes-Hofmeyr alliance had cast over the
eyes alike of Dutch and British, and left them free to see the essential antagonism of aim
between the two men in its naked truth.[24] From that moment Rhodes was recognised by the Bond
as its chief and most dangerous enemy; and as such he was pursued by its bitterest hostility
to the day of his death; while Rhodes, on the other hand, was driven to seek support solely
in the people of his own nationality. From that moment the Bond fell back upon the policy of
1881. The Dutch Press, pulpit, and platform commenced an active nationalist propaganda on the
old racial lines; and the advocacy of anti-British aims increased in boldness and in definiteness
as the Transvaal grew strong with its inflowing armaments.

         [Footnote 24: Ons Land, reputed to be controlled by Hofmeyr
         himself, and certainly the recognised organ of the Bond,
         published a pæan of triumph over the surrender of Dr.
         Jameson's troopers at Doornkop. "Afrikanderdom has awakened
         to a sense of earnestness which we have not observed since
         the heroic war of liberty in 1881. British administration,
controlled from Downing Street, had quickly led to what Sir George
Grey called the dismemberment of European South Africa. The Imperial
Government, having found out its mistake, had endeavoured to regain
the lost solidarity of the European communities and its authority over
them, by bringing the Republics into a federal system under the
British Crown. It had been thwarted in this endeavour by the military
resistance of the Boers in the Transvaal, and the fear of a like
resistance on the part of the Dutch population throughout South
Africa. Its impotency had invited, and in part justified, the efforts
made by local British initiative to solve the problem of South African
unity on South African lines, but in a manner consistent with the
maintenance of British supremacy. The early success of these efforts,
prosecuted mainly through the agency of Rhodes, had been obliterated
by the Jameson Raid. All attempts to secure the reunion of South
Africa under the British flag having failed alike under Imperial and
local British initiative, the way was open for the Afrikander
nationalists once more to put forward the alternative plan of a united
South Africa under its own flag, which they had formulated in the year
immediately following the retrocession of the Transvaal.

In proportion as the friends and supporters of British supremacy were discredited and depressed
by the catastrophe of the Raid, the advocates and promoters of Afrikander nationalism were
emboldened and encouraged. It was not Sir Gordon Sprigg, the Prime Minister of the Cape who
succeeded the discredited Rhodes (January 13th, 1896), but Mr. Hofmeyr, the veteran leader
of the Afrikander Bond, that dictated the policy which Lord Rosmead must pursue to re-establish
the integrity of the Imperial Government in the minds of its Dutch subjects. At the next presidential
election in the Free State (March 4th, 1896), Mr. J. G. Fraser, the head of the moderate party
which followed in the steps of President Brand, was hopelessly beaten by Mr. Marthinus Steyn,
an Afrikander nationalist of the scientific school of Borckenhagen, and a politician whose
immediate programme included the "closer union" of that state with the South African Republic,
the terms of which were finally settled at Bloemfontein on March 9th, 1897. In the Cape Colony
the Bond organised its resources with a view of securing even more complete control of the
Cape Legislature at the general election of 1898. And lastly, President Krüger, who had ceased
to rely upon Holland for administrative talent, and opened the lucrative offices of the South
African Republic to the ambitious and educated Afrikander youth of the Free State and Cape
Colony, commenced methodically and secretly to supply arms and ammunition to the adherents
of the nationalist cause in the British Colonies.

[Sidenote: Situation in 1896.]

But disastrous as was the Jameson Raid in its method of execution and immediate effects, it
produced certain results that cannot be held to have been prejudicial to the British cause
in South Africa, if once we recognise the fact that the English people as a whole were totally
ignorant, at the time of its occurrence, of the extent to which the sub-continent had already
slipped from their grasp. Something of the long advance towards the goal of nationalist ambition,
achieved by the Bond, was revealed. The emphatic cry of "Hands off" to Germany, for which the
Kaiser's telegram of congratulation provided the occasion, was undoubtedly the means of arresting
the progress of that power, at a point when further progress would have gained her a foot-hold
in South Africa from which nothing short of actual hostilities could have dislodged her. And
more important still was the fact that the Raid, with its train of dramatic incidents, had
published, once and for all, the humiliating position of the British population in the Transvaal
throughout the length and breadth of the Anglo-Saxon world, and compelled the Imperial Government
to pledge itself to obtain the redress of the "admitted grievances" of the Uitlanders.

[Sidenote: Mr. Chamberlain's policy.]

Against the rallying forces of Afrikander nationalism Mr. Chamberlain, for the moment, had
nothing to oppose but the vague and as yet unknown power of an awakened Imperial sentiment.
Lord Rosmead's attitude at Pretoria had convinced him of the uselessness of expecting that
any satisfactory settlement of the franchise question could be brought about through the agency
of the High Commissioner. He, therefore, invited President Krüger to visit England in the hope
that his own personal advocacy of the cause of the Uitlanders, backed up by the weight of the
Salisbury Government, might remove the "root causes" of Transvaal unrest. But President Krüger
refused to confer with the Colonial Secretary upon any other than the wholly inadmissible basis
of the conversion of the London Convention into a treaty of amity such as one independent power
might conclude with another. Mr. Chamberlain, therefore, having put upon record that the purpose
of the proposed conference was to give effect to the London Convention and not to destroy it,
proceeded to formulate a South African policy that would enable him to make the most effective
use of the authority of Great Britain as paramount Power. His purpose was to win Dutch opinion
in the Free State and the Cape Colony to the side of the Imperial Government, and then to use
this more progressive Dutch opinion as the fulcrum by which the lever of Imperial remonstrance
was to be successfully applied to the Transvaal Government. In the speech[25] in which he sketched
the main lines of this policy he declared emphatically that the paramount power of England
was to be maintained at all costs, that foreign intervention would not be permitted under any
pretence, and that the admitted grievances of the Uitlanders were to be redressed:

         [Footnote 25: 1896.]

     "We have," he continued, "a confident hope that we shall be able
     in the course of no lengthened time to restore the situation as
     it was before the invasion of the Transvaal, to have at our backs
     the sympathy and support of the majority of the Dutch population
     in South Africa, and if we have that, the opinion--the united
     opinion--which that will constitute, will be an opinion which no
     power in Africa can resist."

With the record of the last ten years before us it seems strange that Mr. Chamberlain should
ever have believed in the efficacy of such a policy: still more strange that he should have
spoken of his "confident hope" of winning the Afrikander nationalists to support the paramount
Power. But it must be remembered that the evidence of the real sentiments and purposes of the
nationalists here set forth in the preceding pages, and now the common property of all educated
Englishmen, was then known only to perhaps a dozen journalists and politicians in England;
and if these men had attempted to impart their knowledge to the general public, they would
have failed from the sheer inability of the average Englishman to believe that "British subjects"
under responsible government could be anything but loyal to the Imperial tie.

But little as Mr. Chamberlain knew of the real strength of the forces of Afrikander nationalism,
he discerned enough of the South African situation to realise that this policy would have no
chance of success, unless the maintenance of the British cause in South Africa was placed in
the hands of a personality of exceptional vigour and capacity. When, therefore, Lord Rosmead
intimated his desire to be relieved of the heavy responsibility of the joint offices of High
Commissionship for South Africa and Governor of the Cape Colony no attempt to dissuade him
was made. His health had been enfeebled for some time past, and he did not long survive his
return to England. Both in Australia and at the Cape he had devoted his strength and ability
to the service of the Empire. In the years 1883-5 he had resolutely and successfully opposed
the attempt of the Transvaal Boers to seize Bechuanaland. His failure to control his powerful
and impatient Prime Minister is mitigated by the circumstance that it was solely on the ground
of public interest that, upon the retirement of Lord Loch in 1895, he had allowed himself,
in spite of his advanced years and indifferent health, to assume the office of High Commissioner
for a third time.

CHAPTER III

A YEAR OF OBSERVATION

Lord Rosmead retired early in 1897. It is said that three men so different in character as
Lord Salisbury, Mr. Chamberlain, and Mr. Stead, each separately fixed upon the same name as
being that of the man most capable of undertaking the position of High Commissioner in South
Africa--a position always difficult, but now more than ever arduous and responsible. To nine
out of every ten men with whom he had been brought into contact there was little in Sir Alfred
Milner--as he then was--to distinguish him from other high-principled, capable, and pleasant-mannered
heads of departments in the Civil Service. His métier was finance, and his accomplishment literature.
Commencing with journalism and an unsuccessful contest (in the Liberal interest) for the Harrow
division of Middlesex, he had been private secretary to Lord Goschen, Under-Secretary for Finance
in Egypt, and Head of the Inland Revenue. In this latter office he had given invaluable assistance
to Sir William Harcourt, then Chancellor of the Exchequer, in respect of what is perhaps the
most successful of recent methods of raising revenue--the death duties. The principle of the
graduated death duties was Harcourt's; but it was Milner who worked out the elaborate system
which rendered his ideas coherent, and enabled them eventually to be put into effect. Academic
distinctions, however ample, cannot be said to-day to afford a definite assurance of pre-eminent
capacity for the service of the State. Yet it was certainly no disadvantage to Sir Alfred Milner
to have been a scholar of Balliol, or a President of the Oxford Union.[26] Whatever direct
knowledge the educated public had of him was based probably upon the impression created by
his book England in Egypt. This was a work which indicated that its author had formed high
ideals of English statesmanship, and that his experience of a complex administrative system,
working in a political society full of intrigue and international jealousy, had developed in
him the rare qualities of insight and humour. Some of his readers might have reflected that
an active association with so accomplished a master of financial and administrative method
as Lord Cromer was in itself a useful equipment for a colonial administrator.

         [Footnote 26: Mr. Bodley, in his Coronation of King Edward
         VII., remarks that of the seventy Balliol scholars elected
         during the mastership of Jowett (1870-1893) only three had at
         that time (1902) "attained eminence in any branch of public
         life." These three were Mr. H. H. Asquith, Dr. Charles Gore
         (then Bishop of Worcester), and Lord Milner.]

[Sidenote: Sir Alfred Milner.]

But the British public, both in England and South Africa, took their view of the appointment
from the opinions expressed by the many prominent men to whom Sir Alfred Milner was personally
known. The leaders and the Press of both parties were unstinted in approval of the choice which
Mr. Chamberlain had made. The banquet given to Sir Alfred Milner three weeks before his departure
to the Cape (March 28th, 1897) provided an occasion for an expression of unrestrained admiration
and confidence unique in the annals of English public life. "He has the union of intellect
with fascination that makes men mount high," wrote Lord Rosebery. And Sir William Harcourt,
"the most grateful and obliged" of Milner's "many friends and admirers," pronounced him to
be "a man deserving of all praise and all affection." Mr. Asquith, who presided, stated in
a speech marked throughout by a note of intimate friendliness that "no appointment of our time
has been received with a larger measure both of the approbation of experienced men and of the
applause of the public." The office itself was "at the present moment the most arduous and
responsible in the administrative service of the country." Not only "embarrassing problems,"
but "formidable personalities" would confront the new High Commissioner for South Africa:

     "But," he added, "we know that he takes with him as clear an
     intellect and as sympathetic an imagination, and, if need should
     arise, a power of resolution as tenacious and as inflexible as
     belongs to any man of our acquaintance."

Milner's reply is significant of the spirit in which he had undertaken his task. Like Rhodes,
he had found in his Oxford studies the reasoned basis for an enlightened Imperialism. Chief
among his earliest political convictions was the belief that--

     "there was no political object comparable in importance with that
     of preventing a repetition of such a disaster [as the loss of the
     United States]: the severance of another link in the great
     Imperial chain.... It is a great privilege to be allowed to fill
     any position in the character of what I may be, perhaps, allowed
     to call a 'civilian soldier of the Empire.' To succeed in it, to
     render any substantial service to any part of our world-wide
     State, would be all that in any of my most audacious dreams I had
     ever ventured to aspire to. But in a cause in which one
     absolutely believes, even failure--personal failure, I mean, for
     the cause itself is not going to fail--would be preferable to an
     easy life of comfortable prosperity in another sphere."

[Sidenote: Personal traits.]

This was the man who was sent to maintain the interests of the paramount Power in a South Africa
shaken by racial antagonism, and already feverish with political intrigue and commercial rivalry.
Of all the tributes of the farewell banquet, Sir William Harcourt's was closest to the life--"worthy
of all praise and all affection." The quality of inspiring affection to which this impressive
phrase bore witness was one which had made itself felt among the humblest of those who were
fortunate enough to have been associated with Lord Milner in any public work. Long after Milner
had left Egypt, the face of the Syrian or Coptic Effendi of the Finance Department in Cairo
would light up at the chance mention of the genial Englishman who had once been his chief.
And in remote English counties revenue officials still hang his portrait upon the walls of
their lodgings. Such men had no claim to appraise his professional merit or his gifts of intellect;
but their feelings were responsive to the charm of his nature. "He was so considerate": that
was their excuse for retaining his name and personality among the pleasant memories of the
past. But the other side of Milner's character, the power of "tenacious and inflexible resolution,"
of which Mr. Asquith spoke, was destined to be brought into play so prominently during the
"eight dusky years" of his South African administration, that to the distant on-looker it came
to be accepted as the characterising quality of the man. To some Milner became the "man of
blood and iron"; determined, like Bismarck, to secure the unity of a country by trampling with
iron-shod boots upon the liberties of its people: even as in the view of others his clear mental
vision--never more clear than in South Africa--became clouded by an adopted partisanship, and
he was a "lost mind." Nothing could be further from the truth. If the man lived who could have
turned the Boer and Afrikander from hatred and distrust of England and English ideas by personal
charm and honourable dealing, it was the man who had universally inspired all his former associates,
whether equals or subordinates, with admiration and affection. Whatever bitterness was displayed
against Lord Milner personally by the Boer and Afrikander leaders after the issue of the war
was decided was due to their perception that he was then--as always--a source of strength and
an inspiration for renewed effort to those whom they regarded as their rivals or opponents.
They hated him just as the French hated Bismarck--because he was the strong man on the other side.

Lord Milner's inflexibility was, in its essence, a keener perception of duty than the ordinary:
it was a determination to do what he believed to be for the good of South Africa and the Empire,
irrespective of any consideration of personal or party relationship. It was in no sense the
incapacity to measure the strength of an opponent, still less did it arise from any failure
to perceive the cogency of an opinion in conflict with his own. Before the eight years of his
administration had passed, Lord Milner's knowledge of the needs of South Africa and the Empire
had become so profound that it carried him ahead of the most enlightened and patriotic of the
home statesmen who supported him loyally to the end. Through the period of the war, when the
issues were simple and primitive, they were wholly with him. But afterwards they supported
him not so much because they understood the methods which he employed and the objects at which
he aimed, as because they were by this time convinced of his complete mastery of the political
and economic problems of South Africa. It is to this inability to understand the facts of the
South African situation, as he had learnt them, that we must attribute the comparative feebleness
shown by the Unionist leaders in resisting the perverse attempt which was made by the Liberal
party, after the General Election of 1906, to revoke the final arrangements of his administration.
The interval that separated Lord Milner's knowledge of South Africa from that of the Liberal
ministers was profound; but even the Unionist chiefs showed but slight appreciation of the
unassailable validity of the administrative decisions with which they had identified themselves,
when the "swing of the pendulum" brought these decisions again, and somewhat unexpectedly,
before the great tribunal of the nation.

[Sidenote: Arrival at Cape Town.]

Lord Milner sailed for the Cape on April 17th, 1897. At the actual moment of his arrival the
relations between the Home Government and the South African Republic were strained almost to
the breaking point. In a peremptory despatch of March 6th, Mr. Chamberlain had demanded the
repeal of the Aliens Immigration and Aliens Expulsion Laws of 1896--the former of which constituted
a flagrant violation of the freedom of entry secured to British subjects by Article XIV. of
the London Convention. This virtual ultimatum was emphasised by the appearance of a British
squadron at Delagoa Bay, and by the despatch of reinforcements to the South African garrisons.
The evident determination of the Imperial Government induced the Volksraad to repeal the Immigration
Law and to pass a resolution in favour of amending the Expulsion Law. The crisis was over in
June, and during the next few months the Pretoria Executive showed a somewhat more conciliatory
temper towards the Government of Great Britain. And in this connection two other facts must
be recorded. In August, 1896, Sir Jacobus de Wet had been succeeded as British Agent at Pretoria
by Sir William (then Mr.) Conyngham Greene, and the Imperial Government was assured, by this
appointment, of the services of an able man and a trained diplomatist. The Parliamentary Committee
of Inquiry into the Raid, promised in July, 1896, met on February 16th, 1897, and reported
on July 13th of the same year. Its report did little more than reassert the findings of the
Cape Parliamentary Inquiry, which had been before the British public for the last year. It
was otherwise remarkable for the handle which it gave (by the failure to insist upon the production
of certain telegrams) to some extreme Radicals to assert Mr. Chamberlain's "complicity" in
the "invasion" of the Transvaal as originally planned by Mr. Rhodes.

[Sidenote: Milner's thoroughness.]

Lord Milner had expressed his intention of acquainting himself with the conditions of South
Africa by personal observation before he attempted to take any definite action for the solution
of the problems awaiting his attention. Nor, after the first month of anxious diplomatic controversy
with the Pretoria Executive, was there anything either in the political situation in the Cape
Colony, or in the attitude of the Transvaal Government, to prevent him from putting his purpose
into effect. Apart from the circumstance that the reorganisation of the Chartered Company's
Administration--a question in which the political future of Mr. Rhodes was largely involved--was
a matter upon which his observation and advice were urgently required by the Colonial Office,
Lord Milner had no intention, as he said, of "being tied to an office chair at Capetown." He
had resolved, therefore, to visit at the earliest opportunity, first, the country districts
of the colony which formed the actual seat of the Dutch population, and, second, the two protectorates
of Bechuanaland and Basutoland, which were administered by officers directly responsible to
the High Commissioner, as the representative of the Imperial Government. In point of fact he
did more than this. Within a year of his arrival he had travelled through the Cape Colony (August
and September, 1897), through the Bechuanaland Protectorate and Rhodesia (November and December,
1897), and visited Basutoland (April, 1898). And with characteristic thoroughness he set himself
to learn both the Dutch of Holland and the "Taal"--the former in order that he might read the
newspapers which the Afrikanders read, and the latter to open the way to that intercourse of
eye and ear which most helps a man to know the character of his neighbour.

Lord Milner's year of observation may be said to have ended with the speech at Graaf Reinet
(March 3rd, 1898), which held his first clear and emphatic public utterance. During the greater
part of this period he was by no means exclusively occupied with the shortcomings of President
Krüger. The discharge of his official duties as Governor of the Cape Colony required more than
ordinary care and watchfulness in view of the disturbed state of South African politics. And
as High Commissioner he was called upon to deal with a number of questions relative to the
affairs of Rhodesia and the Protectorates, of which some led him into the new and unfamiliar
field of native law and custom, while others involved the exercise of his judgment on delicate
matters of personal fitness and official etiquette. But an account of these questions--questions
which he handled with equal insight and decision--must yield to the commanding interest of
the actual steps by which he approached the two central problems upon the solution of which
the maintenance of British supremacy in South Africa depended--the removal of the pernicious
system of race oligarchy in the Transvaal, and the preservation of the Cape Colony in its allegiance
to the British Crown.

[Sidenote: His friendliness to the Boers.]

The position which Lord Milner took up in his relations with the Transvaal Government was one
that was consistent alike with his personal characteristics and with the dictates of a high
and enlightened statesmanship. Within the first few weeks of his arrival he let it be known,
both through the British Agent at Pretoria, and through those of the Afrikander leaders in
the Cape Colony who were on terms of intimacy with President Krüger, that he desired, as it
were, to open an entirely new account between the two governments. He, a new High Commissioner
with no South African past, with no errors to retrieve, no failures to rankle, could afford
to bury the diplomatic hatchet. There was nothing to prevent him from approaching the discussion
of any questions that might arise in a spirit of perfect friendliness, or from believing that
the President would be inspired, on his side, by the same friendly feelings. It was his hope,
therefore, that much of the friction incidental to formal diplomatic controversy might be avoided
through the settlement of all lesser matters by amicable and informal discussion between President
Krüger and himself.

This was no mere official pose. Milner never posed. He, too, desired to eliminate the Imperial
factor in his own way. He saw from the first the advantage of limiting the area of dispute
between Downing Street and Pretoria; and he made it his object to settle as many matters as
possible by friendly discussion on the spot. The desire to avoid unnecessary diplomatic friction,
and to make the best of President Krüger, was manifested in all he did at this time. In the
course of the preparations for the celebration of the Diamond Jubilee by the British community
on the Rand, the new High Commissioner was asked to decide whether the toast of Queen Victoria,
or that of President Krüger, should come first upon the list at the public banquet. He replied
unhesitatingly that the courtesy due to President Krüger, as the head of the State, must be
fully accorded. On this occasion, of all others, British subjects, he said, "should be most
careful to avoid anything which might be regarded as a slight to the South African Republic
or its chief magistrate."[27]

         [Footnote 27: The incident is otherwise interesting as
         affording the first sign of that confidence of the British
         population in Lord Milner, which, steadily increasing as the
         final and inevitable struggle approached, earned for him at
         length the unfaltering support of British South Africa. After
         the Rand celebrations were over, he was informed that his
         advice had been put into effect with "very considerable
         difficulty." The argument which had prevailed was this: "The
         new High Commissioner is a tested man of affairs; we all look
         to him to put British interests on a solid basis; and as we
         do this, let us obey him in a matter like this."]

[Sidenote: Milner and the Conventions.]

While to President Krüger Lord Milner said, "Let us see if we cannot arrange matters by friendly
discussion between ourselves"; to the Colonial Office he said, "Give them time; don't hurry
them. Reform there must be: if by no other means, then by our intervention. But before we intervene,
let us be sure that they either cannot, or will not, reform themselves. Therefore let us wait
patiently, and make things as easy as possible for President Krüger." More than this, he had
almost as little belief in the utility of the Conventions[28] as Grey had in those of his epoch.
Whether the Boers did, or did not, call the Queen "Suzerain" seemed to him to be a small matter--an
etymological question, as he afterwards called it. What was essential was that men of British
blood should not be kept under the heel of the Dutch. Moreover, the grievances for which the
observance of the London Convention, however strictly enforced, could provide a remedy, were
insignificant as compared with the more real grievances, such as the attack upon the independence
of the law courts, the injury to industrial life caused by a corrupt and incompetent administration,
and the denial of elementary political rights, which no technical observance of the Convention
would remove. Nor did it escape Lord Milner's notice that a policy of rigid insistence upon
the letter of the Conventions might place the Imperial Government in a position of grave disadvantage.
If any breach of the Conventions was once made the subject of earnest diplomatic complaint,
the demand of the Imperial Government must be enforced even at the cost of war. The Conventions,
therefore, should be invoked as little as possible. For, if the Boers denied the British Law
Officers' interpretation of the text, the Imperial Government might find itself on the horns
of a dilemma. Either it must beat an undignified retreat, or it must make war upon the Transvaal
for a mere technicality, a proceeding which would gain for the Republic a maximum, and for
the Imperial Government a minimum of sympathy and support. Therefore, he said, "Keep the Conventions
in the background. If we are to fight let it be about something that is essential to the peace
and well-being of South Africa, and not a mere diplomatic wrangle between the Pretoria Executive
and the British Government."

         [Footnote 28: Apart from the question of the validity of the
         preamble to the Pretoria Convention (1881), two
         Conventions--the London Convention (1884), and the Swaziland
         Convention (1894)--were in force between the South African
         Republic and Great Britain. The relations of the Imperial
         Government to the Free State were regulated by the
         Bloemfontein Convention (1854). This latter and the Sand
         River Convention (1852), were the Conventions of Grey's
         time.]

[Sidenote: Transvaal affairs.]

Lord Milner's hope that President Krüger might meet him half-way, although it was shown by
subsequent events to have been devoid of foundation, had for the moment superficial appearances
in its favour. After their retreat on the question of the Aliens Immigration Law the attitude
of the Pretoria Executive remained for some time outwardly less hostile to the Imperial Government.
Woolls-Sampson and "Karri" Davies were released from Pretoria gaol in honour of Queen Victoria's
Jubilee,[29] and at the same period the first and only step was taken that offered a genuine
promise of reform from within. The Industrial Commission, appointed earlier in the year by
the Executive at the request of President Krüger, surprised the Uitlander community by conducting
its inquiry with a thoroughness and impartiality that left no ground for complaint. Its report,
reviewing in detail the conditions of the mining industry, was published in July. It afforded
a complete confirmation of the fiscal and administrative complaints put forward by the Uitlanders
against the Government; and as Mr. Schalk Burger, the Chairman of the Commission, was both
a member of the Executive and the leader of the more progressive section of the Boers, there
seemed to be a reasonable prospect of the recommendations of the Report being carried into
effect. Scarcely more than six months later President Krüger proved conclusively that the hope
of these, or of any other, reforms was entirely unfounded; but so long as there remained any
prospect of the Uitlanders and the Transvaal Government being able to settle their differences
by themselves, Lord Milner consistently pursued his intention of "making things easy" for the
Transvaal Government. And this although the Pretoria Executive soon began to make heavy drafts
upon his patience in other respects.[30]

         [Footnote 29: These two men, now Colonel Sir Aubrey
         Woolls-Sampson and Major W. D. "Karri" Davies, had refused to
         sign the petition of appeal--an act of submission which
         President Krüger required of the Johannesburg Reformers,
         before he released them from Pretoria gaol. They did so on
         the ground that the Imperial Government had made itself
         responsible for their safety; since they and the other
         Reformers, with the town of Johannesburg, had laid down their
         arms on the faith of Lord Rosmead's declaration that he would
         obtain reasonable reforms from President Krüger for the
         Uitlanders.]

         [Footnote 30: In the question of the Swaziland border, the
         affair of Bunu, and the continued and increasing
         ill-treatment of the Cape Boys, the Boer Government
         manifested its old spirit of aggression and duplicity. All
         these matters involved Lord Milner in anxious and wearisome
         negotiations, which, however, he contrived by mingled
         firmness and address to keep within the limits of friendly
         discussion.]

If Lord Milner was prepared to make the most of Paul Krüger and the Boers, he showed himself
no less ready to see the best side of the Dutch in the Cape Colony. As we have already had
occasion to notice, the year of his appointment was that of the Diamond Jubilee celebration;
and on June 23rd he sent home a brief despatch in which he dwelt with evident satisfaction
upon the share taken by the Dutch in the general demonstrations of loyalty called forth by
the occasion in the Cape Colony. After a reference to the number of loyal addresses or congratulatory
telegrams which had been sent to the Colonial Secretary for transmission to the Queen, he continued:

     "The enthusiasm evoked here ... seems to me to be of peculiar
     interest ... in view of recent events, which, as you are aware,
     have caused a feeling of considerable bitterness among different
     sections of the community. All I can say is that, so far as I am
     able to judge, these racial differences have not affected the
     loyalty of any portion of the community to Her Majesty the Queen.
     People of all races, the English, the Dutch, the Asiatics, as
     well as the African natives, have vied with one another in
     demonstrations of affection for her person and devotion to the
     throne. When every allowance is made for the exaggeration of
     feeling caused by the unparalleled scale and prolonged duration
     of the present festivities, and for the contagious excitement
     which they have produced, it is impossible to doubt that the
     feeling of loyalty among all sections of the population is much
     stronger than has sometimes been believed. In my opinion, the
     impression made by the world-wide celebration of Her Majesty's
     Jubilee has strengthened that feeling throughout South Africa,
     and is likely to have a permanent value."[31]

         [Footnote 31: This short despatch has been given practically
         in extenso. It was not published in the Blue-books, but it
         was communicated to the Press some three months after it had
         been received.]

[Sidenote: First impressions of the Dutch.]

It has been urged that the opinion here recorded is inconsistent with the charge of anti-British
sentiment subsequently brought by Lord Milner against the Dutch leaders in the Cape Colony,
and the despatch itself has been cited as affording evidence of the contention that the unfavourable
view subsequently expressed in the Graaf Reinet speech, and more definitely in the despatch
of May 4th, 1899, was not the result of independent investigation, but was a view formed to
support the Imperial Government in a coercive policy towards the Transvaal. This criticism,
which is a perfectly natural one, only serves to establish the fact that Lord Milner actually
did approach the study of the nationality difficulty in complete freedom from any preconceived
notions on the subject. As he said, he went to South Africa with an "open mind." So far from
having any prejudice against the Dutch, his first impression was distinctly favourable, and
as such he recorded it, suitably enough, in this Jubilee despatch. But it must be remembered
that the opinion here recorded was based upon a very limited field of observation. At the time
when this despatch was written Lord Milner had not yet been quite two months in South Africa,
and his experience of the Dutch of the Cape Colony had been confined to intercourse with the
Dutch of the Cape peninsula; that is to say, he had only come into contact with that section
of the Cape Dutch which is, as indeed it has been for a century, closely identified, from a
social point of view, with the official and mercantile British population of Capetown and its
suburbs.

What the Jubilee despatch really shows is that Lord Milner was prepared to make the best of
the Dutch. The contrast between its tone of ready appreciation and the note of earnest remonstrance
in the Graaf Reinet speech is apparent enough. The despatch is dated June 23rd, 1897; the speech
was delivered on March 3rd, 1898. What had happened in this interval of nine months to produce
so marked a change in the mind of the genial, clear-sighted Englishman, who, as Mr. Asquith
said, took with him to South Africa "as sympathetic an imagination" as any man of his acquaintance?
Nemo repente fuit turpissimus. Whether the diagnosis of his Graaf Reinet speech was right or
wrong, something must have happened to turn Lord Milner from ready appreciation to grave remonstrance.

The circumstances which provide the answer to this question form an element of vital importance
in the volume of evidence upon which posterity will pronounce the destruction of the Dutch
Republics in South Africa to have been a just and necessary, or a needless and aggressive,
act. But to see them in true perspective, the reader must first be possessed of some more precise
information of the political situation in the Cape Colony at this time.

[Sidenote: The Sprigg ministry.]

At the period of Lord Milner's appointment the political forces set in motion by the Raid were
operating already to prepare the way for the new and significant combinations of persons and
parties in the Cape Colony that took definite form in the parliamentary crisis of May, 1898.
The Ministry now in office was that formed by Sir Gordon Sprigg upon Mr. Rhodes's resignation
of the premiership after the Raid (January 6th, 1896). Like every other Cape Ministry of the
last thirteen years, it was dependent upon the support of the Afrikander Bond, which supplied
two out of the six members of the cabinet--Mr. Pieter Faure, Minister of Agriculture, and a
moderate Bondsman, and Dr. Te Water, the intimate friend of Mr. Hofmeyr, and his direct representative
in the Ministry. Another minister, Sir Thomas Upington, who had succeeded Mr. Philip Schreiner
as Attorney-General, had been himself Prime Minister in the period 1884-6, when he and Sir
Gordon Sprigg (then Treasurer-General), had opposed the demand for the intervention of the
Imperial Government in Bechuanaland, successfully and strenuously advocated by Mr. J. W. Leonard
and Mr. Merriman. It was, therefore, eminently, what would be called in France "a Ministry
of the Centre." Sir Gordon Sprigg's regard for British interests was too lukewarm to command
the confidence of the more decided advocates of British supremacy; while, on the other hand,
his more or less friendly relations with Mr. Rhodes aroused the suspicions of the Dutch extremists.
But Dr. Te Water's presence in the Ministry, offering in itself a sufficient assurance that
no measures deemed by Mr. Hofmeyr to be contrary to the interests of the Bond would be adopted,
had secured for the Government the votes of the majority of the Dutch members of the Legislative
Assembly. An example of the subserviency of the Sprigg Ministry to the Bond at this date was
afforded upon Lord Milner's arrival. As we have seen, the Home Government determined to reinforce
the South African garrison, in order to strengthen its demand upon the Transvaal Government
for the repeal of the Aliens Immigration Law. Although no direct opposition was offered by
the Ministry to this measure, the insufficiency of barrack accommodation in the Cape Colony
was used as a pretext for placing obstacles in the way of its accomplishment. These difficulties
were successfully overcome by Lord Milner, and in the end the reinforcements arrived without
giving rise to any political excitement.[32]

         [Footnote 32: By August the South African garrison had been
         raised to the very moderate strength of rather more than
         8,000 troops.]

[Sidenote: Navy contribution bill.]

A more disagreeable incident was the covert attempt made by the Bond to obstruct the business
of the Cape Parliament, in order that Sir Gordon Sprigg might be prevented from taking his
place among the other prime ministers of the self-governing colonies at the Colonial Conference,
and representing the Cape in the Jubilee celebrations in England.[33] This was the beginning
of a disagreement between the Ministry and the Bond, which gradually increased in seriousness
after Sir Gordon's return from England, until it culminated in the resignation of Dr. Te Water
(May, 1898). The offer of an annual contribution to the cost of the British Navy, which was
affirmed in principle by the Cape Parliament at this time, was understood in England to be
a mark of Afrikander attachment to the British connection. In point of fact the measure received
practically no support from the Bondsmen in Parliament; while, outside of Parliament, on Bond
platforms and in the Bond Press, the Government's action in the matter was employed as an effective
argument to stimulate disaffection in the ranks of its Dutch supporters. Mr. Hofmeyr, however,
was careful not to allow the Bond, as an organisation, to commit itself to any overt opposition
to the principle of a contribution to the British Navy--an attitude which would have been obviously
inconsistent with the Bond's profession of loyalty--and with characteristic irony the third
reading of the Navy Contribution Bill was eventually passed, a year later, without a division
in the Legislative Assembly by a Ministry[34] placed in office by Bond votes for the declared
purpose of opposing the policy of the Imperial Government on the one question--the reform of
the Transvaal Administration--upon the issue of which depended the maintenance of British supremacy
in South Africa.

         [Footnote 33: Sir Gordon Sprigg's long service as a minister
         of the Crown fully entitled him to this honour; nor was his
         presence rendered any the less desirable by the fact that Sir
         Henry de Villiers, the Chief Justice, was also attending the
         Jubilee in England.]

         [Footnote 34: The Schreiner Ministry.]

[Sidenote: Rhodes's position.]

But circumstances of deeper significance contributed to deprive the Sprigg Ministry of the
support of the Bond, causing its majority to dwindle, and driving Sir Gordon himself, in an
increasing degree, into the opposite camp. The British population for the first time showed
a tendency to organise itself in direct opposition to the Bond. As Sir Gordon Sprigg grew more
Imperialist, the Progressive party was formed for parliamentary purposes; while for the purpose
of combating the Afrikander nationalist movement in general an Imperialist organisation, called
the South African League, was established with the avowed object of maintaining British supremacy
in South Africa. Mr. Cecil Rhodes, immediately after the Raid, announced his intention of taking
no further part in the politics of the Cape Colony, and of devoting himself, for the future,
to the development of Rhodesia. But upon his return from England, after giving evidence before
the Committee of Inquiry into the Raid, he was received with so much warmth by the British
population at Capetown in July, 1897, that he had retracted this decision, and determined to
assume the same position of real, though not nominal, leadership of what was afterwards the
Progressive party as Mr. Hofmeyr held in the Bond. Mr. Rhodes's return to political life, following,
as it did, upon the report of the Committee of Inquiry, aroused the most bitter hostility against
him on the part of his former associates in the Bond. And the Sprigg Ministry, by their increasing
reliance upon the new party of which he was the leader, incurred the distrust of its Dutch
supporters to a corresponding extent. In the meantime the Bond leaders had adopted Mr. Philip
Schreiner, who was not a member of the Bond, as their parliamentary chief in the place of Rhodes,
and this new combination was strengthened by the accession of Mr. J. X. Merriman and Mr. J.
W. Sauer. Thus the opening months of the new year, 1898, found the population of the Cape Colony
grouping itself roughly, for the first time, into two parties with definite and mutually destructive
aims. On the one side there was the Sprigg Ministry, now almost exclusively supported by the
British section of the Cape electorate, soon to be organised on the question of "redistribution"
into the Progressive party, with Rhodes as its real, though not its recognised, leader; and
on the other there was the Bond party, with Schreiner as its parliamentary chief and Hofmeyr
as its real leader, depending in no less a degree upon the Dutch population of the Colony,
and naturally opposed to an electoral reform that threatened to deprive this population of
its parliamentary preponderance. And in a few months' time, as we shall see, the Schreiner-Bond
coalition took for its immediate aim the prevention of British interference in the Transvaal;
while the Progressive party came, no less openly, to avow its determination to promote and
support the action of the Imperial Government in seeking to obtain redress for the Uitlander
grievances.

The movements here briefly indicated were, of course, perfectly well known to Lord Milner as
constitutional Governor of the Colony. But at Graaf Reinet he probes the situation too deeply,
and speaks with too authoritative a tone, to allow us to suppose that the remonstrance which
he then addressed to the Cape Dutch was based upon any sources of knowledge less assured than
his own observation and experience. For the Graaf Reinet speech is not an affair of ministers'
minutes or party programmes; it is the straight talk of a man taught by eye and ear, and informed
by direct relationships with the persons and circumstances that are envisaged in his words.
To restate our question, which among these facts of personal observation and experience produced
the change from the ready appreciation of the Cape Dutch, shown in the Jubilee despatch, to
the earnest remonstrance of the Graaf Reinet speech? The historian cannot claim, like the writer
of creative literature, to exhibit the working of the human mind. In the terms of the Aristotelian
formula, he can relate only what "has" happened, leaving to the craftsman whose pen is enlarged
and ennobled by the universal truth of art to tell what "must" happen. But such satisfaction
as the lesser branch of literature can afford is at the disposal of the reader, in "good measure,
pressed down, and running over." Without assuming, then, the philosophic certainty of poetry,
we know that between the Jubilee despatch and the Graaf Reinet speech the development of the
great South African drama reached its "turning-point" in the Transvaal; while in the Cape Colony
Lord Milner was learning daily more of the "formidable personalities" and the "embarrassing
problems" to which Mr. Asquith had referred.

[Sidenote: No reform in the Transvaal.]

The more hopeful situation in the Transvaal that followed upon the determined action of the
Imperial Government in May was succeeded by a period punctuated by events which, taken collectively,
obliterated all prospect of "reform from within." The treatment accorded to the report of the
Industrial Commission, which, as we have noticed, established the truth of practically all
the fiscal and administrative complaints of the Uitlanders, was a matter of especial significance.
The Commission was created by President Krüger; it was in effect the fulfilment of his promises,
made after the Raid, to redress the grievances of the Uitlanders. The Commissioners were his
own officials, Boers and Hollanders; men who had no prejudice against the Government, and no
sympathy with the new population, yet their recommendations, if carried into effect, would
have removed the most serious of the industrial grievances of the British community. The Report
had raised great expectations. It was thought that, not all, but a substantial proportion of
its recommendations would be put into effect. Here, then, was an opportunity for reform which
involved no loss of prestige, entailed no danger to the independence of the Republic, and held
not the slightest threat to the stability of burgher predominance. If what President Krüger
was waiting for was a convenient opportunity, he had such an opportunity now. This reasonable
forecast was utterly falsified by the event. Mr. Schalk Burger, the Chairman of the Commission,
was denounced by Mr. Krüger in the Volksraad as a traitor to the Republic, because he had dared
to set his hand to so distasteful a document. The report itself was thrown contemptuously by
the grim old President from the Volksraad to the customary committee of true-blue "doppers,"
whose ignorance of the industrial conditions of the Rand was equalled only by their personal
devotion to himself. Here the adverse findings of the commissioners on the dynamite and railway
monopolies were reversed; and the recommendation for a Local Board for the Rand was condemned
as subversive of the authority of the State. At length, after the report had been tossed about
from Volksraad to committee, and from committee to Volksraad, until very little of the original
recommendations remained, the Government took action. In addition to an immaterial reduction
of the exorbitant rates charged by the Netherlands Railway Company--a concession subsequently
alleged to have been the price paid by the Hollander Corporation to avoid further inquiry into
its affairs--it was announced that, with the object of lessening the cost of living on the
Rand, the import duties upon certain necessaries in common use would be reduced, in accordance
with the recommendations of the Commissioners on this point; but that, since it was obviously
inexpedient to diminish the revenue of the Republic, the duties upon certain other articles
of the same class would be raised to an extent more than counterbalancing the loss upon the
reduction. Parturiunt montes; nascitur ridiculus mus.

[Sidenote: Krüger re-elected president.]

This singular display of mingled effrontery and duplicity marked the closing months of the
year (1897). In the February following Mr. Krüger was elected to the presidency of the South
African Republic for the fourth time. It was generally recognised that the success of his candidature
was inevitable, but few, within or without the Transvaal, had expected him to secure so decisive
a victory over his competitors. The figures--Krüger 12,858, Schalk Burger 3,750, and Joubert
(Commandant-General) 2,001--were additional evidence of the impotency or lukewarmness of the
reform party among the burghers. The first act of President Krüger, on his return to power,
was to dismiss Chief Justice Kotzé. Mr. Kotzé's struggle for the independence of the law courts,
thus summarily closed, had commenced a year before with what was known as the "High Court crisis."
At that time President Krüger had obtained power from the Volksraad by the notorious law No.
1 of 1897 to compel the judges, on pain of dismissal, to renounce the right, recently exercised,
to declare laws, which were in their opinion inconsistent with the Grondwet (Constitution),
to be, to that extent, invalid. As a protest against this autocratic proceeding the entire
bench of judges threatened to resign, and the courts were adjourned. The deadlock continued
until a compromise was arranged through the intervention of Chief Justice de Villiers. The
President undertook to introduce a new law providing satisfactorily for the independence of
the Courts, and the judges, on their side, pledged themselves not to exercise the "testing"
right in the meantime. In February, 1898, Chief Justice Kotzé wrote to remind President Krüger
that his promise remained unfulfilled,[35] withdrawing at the same time the conditional pledge
not to exercise the "testing" right given by himself. The President then dismissed Mr. Kotzé
under Law No. 1, compelled a second judge, Mr. Justice Amershof (who had supported the Chief
Justice in the position he had taken up) to resign, and appointed, as the new Chief Justice,
Mr. Gregorowski, who, as Chief Justice of the Free State, had presided at the trial of the
Reformers in 1896, and at the time of the crisis a year before had declared that "no honourable
man could possibly accept the position of a judge so long as Law No. 1 remained in force."
The judicature was now rendered subservient to the Executive, and the Uitlanders were thus
deprived of their last constitutional safeguard against the injustice of the Boer and Hollander
oligarchy.

         [Footnote 35: There appears to have been some question as to
         whether the terms of the President's undertaking bound him to
         introduce the proposed measure into the Volksraad in 1897, or
         in 1898. Chief Justice de Villiers held that the latter date
         was contemplated by the President. But the point is
         immaterial, since President Krüger denied in the Volksraad,
         after the dismissal of Mr. Kotzé, that he had ever given an
         undertaking at all to Chief Justice de Villiers or to anybody
         else.]

[Sidenote: His reactionary policy.]

This was the position in the Transvaal in February, 1898. President Krüger had demonstrated
by his refusal to carry out the recommendations of the Industrial Commission, and by the dismissal
of Chief Justice Kotzé, that he was determined not merely to set himself against all measures
of reform, but to increase the disabilities under which the Uitlanders had hitherto lived.
He had been placed, for the fourth time, at the head of the Republic by an overwhelming majority;
he had refused to sacrifice a penny of revenue, and he was in possession of ample resources,
which were being sedulously applied in increasing his already disproportionate supply of munitions
of war. Through Dr. Leyds, who had returned from his mission to Europe, he had opened up communications
with European Powers, that placed him in a position to avail himself to the full of the possible
embarrassment of Great Britain through international rivalries or disagreements. In South Africa
he had carried through a treaty of offensive and defensive alliance with the Free State, and
he had received more than one recent assurance that the flame of Afrikander nationalism had
been kindled anew by the Bond in the Cape Colony.

These events were disquieting enough in themselves; but what made the disappearance of any
prospect of spontaneous reform in the Transvaal still more serious to the High Commissioner
for South Africa, was the complaisance with which President Krüger's reactionary policy was
regarded by the Dutch subjects of the Crown. It was just here that Lord Milner's observations
must have yielded the most startling results. We know that the days which had passed since
the Jubilee despatch was written had brought him constant and varied opportunities for seeing
"things as they really were" in South Africa; we know that he was keenly alert in the accomplishment
of his mission, and we may presume, therefore, that few, if any, of these opportunities were lost.

In September Lord Milner had travelled right round the Colony. At every little town and dorp--wherever,
in fact, he went--he conversed with the Dutch, whom his pleasant manner quickly won to friendliness;
and all the speeches that he made in reply to the addresses of welcome were extremely conciliatory
in tone. This was the time when there were hopeful anticipations of the good results that were
to come from the Industrial Commission; and Lord Milner often began his speech with an expression
of the sense of relief which he felt--a feeling which his audience must share--that now there
was to be peace in South Africa. These conciliatory utterances of the new High Commissioner
were almost completely ignored by the Dutch Press. An exception to this rule of silence was
significant. The High Commissioner was accompanied by the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. (now
Sir Pieter) Faure. On one occasion Mr. Faure made some remarks in the same spirit as that in
which Lord Milner had spoken. "People," he said, "talk of Africa for the Afrikanders; but what
I say is, Africa for all." The expression of this moderate sentiment drew down upon Mr. Faure
a sharp reproof from Ons Land. From this and many other such incidents it must have begun to
dawn upon Lord Milner's mind that what the Dutch of the Cape Colony wanted was not conciliation
but domination.

[Sidenote: Attitude of the Cape Dutch.]

[Sidenote: "Hands off" the Transvaal.]

And so it came about that in the months that President Krüger was busy shutting the door against
reform, Lord Milner was learning to realise that on this all-important matter there was nothing
to hope from the Cape Dutch. When once the question of reform, or no reform, in the Transvaal
came up, all conciliatory speeches were useless. It made no difference whether the Transvaal
was right or wrong; it was always, "Our Transvaal, good or bad." In short, all that happened
both in the Transvaal and the Cape Colony during this (South African) spring and summer was
of the nature to impress conclusively upon Lord Milner's mind that on the crucial issue between
the Imperial Government and the Transvaal, the leaders of Dutch opinion in the Cape Colony
were against the British cause. The rank and file of the Dutch population, if left to themselves,
might be indifferent, possibly friendly; but the Bond organisation had placed them under the
control of the Bond leaders; and the Bond was hostile. What, more than anything else, would
serve to confirm this impression was Lord Milner's constant study of the Dutch Press. Among
these journals, Ons Land presented the most authoritative and significant expression of the
Bond policy, as directed by Mr. Hofmeyr's astute brain and unrivalled experience. The editorial
columns of Ons Land rarely contained a sentence that, standing alone, could be quoted as evidence
of its advocacy of anti-British action. Its method was far more subtle. In everything in which
Great Britain was concerned the attitude which it adopted was one of profound alienation, rather
than of aggressive hostility. England's position in the world was presented and discussed as
though "Afrikanders" were no more interested in it than they were in that of any foreign country.
And, in South African matters, the tone of the Dutch Press, and of the Bond leaders, was not
merely discouraging; at any hint of possible British action for the improvement of the administrative
conditions of the Transvaal, it took a note of menace. "Hands off" the Transvaal: that was
the sum and substance of Bond policy.

Between the Jubilee despatch and the Graaf Reinet speech, then, the Transvaal Government had
shown that it had set its face definitely against reform, and Lord Milner had had time to realise
the true state of political feeling in the Colony of which he was Governor. While there was
anger among the British at the hopeless situation in the Transvaal, among the Dutch was a fixed
determination not to allow the Transvaal to be interfered with. And there was something else
that Lord Milner would have observed during his travels throughout the Colony. It was the utter
despondency of the British population, and the condition of abasement to which they had been
reduced. Nor can he have failed to observe that everywhere among the British there was a constant
apology for the Raid; while, on the part of the Dutch, there was no recognition of all that
the British had done to wipe out its stain and to mitigate its effects: in a word, that the
moral conquest of the Colony by the Dutch was practically complete.

[Sidenote: Milner at Graaf Reinet.]

It was with this accumulated evidence in his mind that Lord Milner travelled down, on March
2nd, 1898, from Capetown to Graaf Reinet, expecting to take part in a Governor's function of
the ordinary sort at the opening of the railway on the following day. The conventional expressions
of loyalty to the Queen, and the scarcely veiled hypocrisy and defiance with which the Dutch
reiterated them, at the time when the whole weight of their influence was thrown against Great
Britain on the only South African question that really mattered, had become nauseating even
to his serene temper and generous disposition. He was wearied, too, of receiving a frivolous
or unfriendly reply from the Pretoria Executive to the most reasonable proposals of the Imperial
Government. Late at night there was brought to him, in the train, a copy of an address from
the Graaf Reinet branch of the Afrikander Bond, which was to be presented to him on the morrow.
It contained, in more than usually pointed language, a protest against "the charges of disloyalty
made against the Bond," and a request that the High Commissioner would "convey to the Queen
the expression of its unswerving loyalty." As he read on we can imagine how, in ominous contrast
to the superficial protestations of the text, something exceptionally aggressive in the tone
of the address, something which emphasised the inconsistency of these formal professions of
attachment to the throne with the very practical hostility of their authors to British policy,
struck the High Commissioner with peculiar force. The Dutch, who, under British rule, enjoyed--one
might almost say abused--every privilege of citizenship in the Cape Colony, were quite prepared
to see the British excluded, under Dutch rule, from these same privileges in the Transvaal.
More than that, they were determined to employ all the agencies at their command to prevent
any effective interference with the Transvaal oligarchy. Lord Milner evidently felt that the
time had come for remonstrance, so, gathering up the impressions which had been accumulating
in his mind, he wrote down then and there his answer, which was delivered on the following day.

     "Of course, I am glad to be assured that any section of Her
     Majesty's subjects is loyal, but I should be much more glad to be
     allowed to take that for granted. Why should I not? What reason
     could there be for any disloyalty? You have thriven wonderfully
     well under Her Majesty's Government. This country, despite its
     great extent and its fine climate, has some tremendous natural
     disadvantages to contend against, and yet let any one compare the
     position to-day with what it was at the commencement of Her
     Majesty's reign, or even thirty years ago. The progress in
     material wealth is enormous, and the prospects of future progress
     are greater still. And you have other blessings which by no means
     always accompany material wealth. You live under an absolutely
     free system of government, protecting the rights and encouraging
     the spirit of independence of every citizen. You have courts of
     law manned by men of the highest ability and integrity, and
     secure in the discharge of their high functions from all external
     interference. You have--at least as regards the white
     races--perfect equality of citizenship. And these things have not
     been won from a reluctant sovereign. They have been freely and
     gladly bestowed upon you, because freedom and self-government,
     justice and equality, are the first principles of British policy.
     And they are secured to you by the strength of the power that
     gave them, and whose navy protects your shores from attack
     without your being asked to contribute one pound to that
     protection unless you yourselves desire it. Well, gentlemen, of
     course you are loyal; it would be monstrous if you were not.

     "And now, if I have one wish, it is that I may never again have
     to deal at any length with this topic. But in order that I may
     put it aside with a good conscience, I wish, having been more or
     less compelled to deal with it, to do so honestly, and not to
     shut my eyes to unpleasant facts. The great bulk of the
     population of the Colony--Dutch as well as English--are, I firmly
     believe, thoroughly loyal, in the sense that they know they live
     under a good constitution, and have no wish to change it, and
     regard with feelings of reverence and pride that august lady at
     the head of it. If we had only domestic questions to consider; if
     political controversy were confined to the internal affairs of
     the country, there would, no doubt, be a great deal of hard
     language used by conflicting parties, and very likely among the
     usual amenities of party warfare somebody would call somebody
     else disloyal; but the thing would be so absurd--so obviously
     absurd--that nobody would take it seriously, and the charges
     would be forgotten almost as soon as uttered.

[Sidenote: The loyalty of the Bond.]

     "What gives the sting to the charge of disloyalty in this case,
     what makes it stick, and what makes people wince under it, is the
     fact that the political controversies of this country at present
     unfortunately turn largely upon another question--I mean the
     relations of Her Majesty's Government to the South African
     Republic--and that, whenever there is any prospect of any
     difference between them, a number of people in the Colony at once
     vehemently, and without even the semblance of impartiality,
     espouse the side of the Republic. Personally I do not think that
     they are disloyal. I am familiar at home with the figure of the
     politician--often the best of men, though singularly
     injudicious--who, whenever any disputes arise with another
     country, starts with the assumption that his own country must be
     in the wrong. He is not disloyal, but really he cannot be very
     much surprised if he appears to be so to those of his
     fellow-citizens whose inclination is to start with the exactly
     opposite assumption. And so I do not take it that in this case
     people are necessarily disloyal because they carry their sympathy
     with the Government of the Transvaal--which, seeing the close tie
     of relationship which unites a great portion of the population
     here with the dominant section in that country, is perfectly
     natural--to a point which gives some ground for the assertion
     that they seem to care much more for the independence of the
     Transvaal than for the honour and the interests of the country to
     which they themselves belong.

     "For my own part, I believe the whole object of those people in
     espousing the cause of the Transvaal is to prevent an open
     rupture between that country and the British Government. They
     loathe, very naturally and rightly, the idea of war, and they
     think that, if they can only impress upon the British Government
     that in case of war with the Transvaal it would have a great
     number of its own subjects at least in sympathy against it, that
     is a way to prevent such a calamity.

     "But in this they are totally wrong, for this policy rests on the
     assumption that Great Britain has some occult design on the
     independence of the Transvaal--that independence which it has
     itself given--and that it is seeking causes of quarrel in order
     to take that independence away. But that assumption is the exact
     opposite of the truth. So far from seeking causes of quarrel, it
     is the constant desire of the British Government to avoid causes
     of quarrel, and not to take up lightly the complaints (and they
     are numerous) which reach it from British subjects within the
     Transvaal, for the very reason that it wishes to avoid even the
     semblance of interference in the internal affairs of that
     country, and, as regards its external relations, to insist only
     on that minimum of control which it has always distinctly
     reserved, and has reserved, I may add, solely in the interests of
     the future tranquillity of South Africa. That is Great Britain's
     moderate attitude, and she cannot be frightened out of it. It is
     not any aggressiveness on the part of Her Majesty's Government
     which now keeps up the spirit of unrest in South Africa. Not at
     all. It is that unprogressiveness--I will not say the
     retrogressiveness--of the Government of the Transvaal and its
     deep suspicion of the intentions of Great Britain which makes it
     devote its attention to imaginary external dangers, when every
     impartial observer can see perfectly well that the real dangers
     which threaten it are internal.

[Sidenote: Milner's appeal to the Dutch.]

     "Now, I wish to be perfectly fair. Therefore, let me say that
     this suspicion, though absolutely groundless, is not, after all
     that has happened, altogether unnatural. I accept the situation
     that at the present moment any advice that I could tender, or
     that any of your British fellow-citizens could tender in that
     quarter, though it was the best advice in the world, would be
     instantly rejected because it was British. But the same does not
     apply to the Dutch citizens of this colony, and especially to
     those who have gone so far in the expression of their sympathy
     for the Transvaal as to expose themselves to these charges of
     disloyalty to their own flag. Their good-will at least cannot be
     suspected across the border; and if all they desire--and I
     believe it is what they desire--is to preserve the South African
     Republic, and to promote good relations between it and the
     British Colonies and Government, then let them use all their
     influence, which is bound to be great, not in confirming the
     Transvaal in unjustified suspicions, not in encouraging its
     Government in obstinate resistance to all reform, but in inducing
     it gradually to assimilate its institutions, and, what is even
     more important than institutions, the temper and spirit of its
     administration, to those of the free communities of South Africa,
     such as this Colony or the Orange Free State. That is the
     direction in which a peaceful way out of these inveterate
     troubles, which have now plagued this country for more than
     thirty years, is to be found."[36]

         [Footnote 36: Cape Times, March 4th, 1898.]

Here was a bolt from the blue! All South Africa stood to attention. No such authoritative and
inspiring utterance had come from the High Commissioners for South Africa since Frere had been
recalled, now eighteen years ago. The Afrikander nationalists saw that their action and policy
were exposed to the scrutiny of a penetrating intellect, and grew uneasy.

The position which Lord Milner had taken up was impregnable. What is the good of your loyalty,
he said in effect to the Cape Dutch, if you refuse to help us in the one thing needful?

The impact of these words was tremendous. The weight behind them was the weight of inevitable
truth.

A week later Mr. J. X. Merriman wrote to President Steyn to beg him to urge President Krüger
to be careful. Under date March 11th, 1898, he says:

     "You will, no doubt, have seen both Sir Alfred Milner's speech at
     Graaf Reinet and the reported interview with Mr. Rhodes in The
     Cape Times. Through both there runs a note of thinly veiled
     hostility to the Transvaal and the uneasy menace of trouble
     ahead....

     "Yet one cannot conceal the fact that the greatest danger to the
     future lies in the attitude of President Krüger and his vain hope
     of building up a State on a foundation of a narrow, unenlightened
     minority, and his obstinate rejection of all prospect of using
     the materials which lie ready to his hand to establish a true
     Republic on a broad Liberal basis. The report of recent
     discussions in the Volksraad on his finances and their
     mismanagement fill one with apprehension. Such a state of affairs
     cannot last. It must break down from inherent rottenness, and it
     will be well if the fall does not sweep away the freedom of all
     of us.

     "I write in no hostility to republics; my own feelings are all in
     the opposite direction.... Humanly speaking, the advice and
     good-will of the Free State is the only thing that stands between
     the South African Republic and a catastrophe."[37]

         [Footnote 37: Cd. 369.]

[Sidenote: Sprigg and the Bond.]

Still more striking and salutary was the effect produced upon the British population in the
Cape Colony. All who were not utterly abased by the yoke of Bond domination stood upright.
Those whose spirit had been cowed by the odium of the Raid took heart. Never had the essential
morality of England's dealings with the Dutch been vindicated more triumphantly. The moral
right of the Power which had done justice to the Dutch in its own borders to require the Dutch
to do justice to the British within the borders of the Republic was unassailable. We have noticed
before how in the year 1897 the different sections of the British population were manifesting
a tendency to draw closer together. After the Graaf Reinet speech this movement rapidly developed
into a general determination to challenge the long domination of the Bond. It had been recognised
for some time past that the recent and considerable growth of the urban population of the Colony,
which was mainly British, had not been accompanied by any corresponding increase in the number
of its parliamentary representatives. In February (1898), the anomalous condition of the Cape
electoral system was brought before the Ministry. The indignation caused by the dismissal of
Chief Justice Kotzé, and the growing evidence of President Krüger's determination to ride rough-shod
over the British population in the Transvaal, contributed to unite the Colonial British of
all sections, with the exception of the one or two men who were wholly identified with the
Bond, in the common aim of obtaining a fair representation for the chief centres of British
population in the Cape Colony; and the practically solid British party thus formed adopted
the title of "Progressives." The Ministry knew, of course, that any such measure would be displeasing
to Mr. Hofmeyr; but Sir Gordon Sprigg, being now assured of the almost united support of the
British members in the Colonial Parliament, resolved to bring forward a Redistribution Bill.
The draft Bill was approved by the Executive Council on May 13th, and Dr. Te Water, Mr. Hofmeyr's
representative in the Ministry, thereupon resigned.[38]

         [Footnote 38: He was succeeded in the Colonial Secretaryship
         by Dr. Smartt, a former member of the Bond, but now a
         Progressive, and at the same time Sir Thomas Upington, who
         had resigned from ill-health, was succeeded by Mr. T.
         Lynedoch Graham, as Attorney-General.]

[Sidenote: Redistribution.]

Sir Gordon Sprigg had now done a thing unprecedented in the parliamentary history of the Cape
Colony in the last fifteen years. He had defied the Bond. He knew that the Bond was quite able
to turn his Ministry out of Office. But he had made up his mind, in this event, to throw in
his lot with the Progressive party, of which Mr. Rhodes was the actual chief. Mr. Hofmeyr did
not leave him long in doubt. On the resignation of Dr. Te Water all the Bond artillery was
at once turned on to the Ministry. On May 31st Mr. Schreiner gave notice of a vote of "no confidence."
It was put off until June 13th, and in the meantime the second reading of the Redistribution
Bill was met by the "previous question" moved by Mr. Theron, the Chairman of the Provincial
Council of the Bond. No attempt was made, either in Parliament or in the Press, to conceal
the fact that, under the question of redistribution, wider and more momentous issues were at
stake. The counts in the Bond's indictment of the Ministry, as set out in Ons Land, were (1)
its Imperialist tendencies as evidenced by the proposed gift of a warship to the British Navy;
and (2) its lack of sympathy with the South African Republic. Against these crimes it had nothing
to place, except that it had permitted the employment of the captured Bechuanas, as indentured
labourers[39]--its sole merit, in the opinion of the Bond journal. The Cape Times, on the other
hand, declared with equal frankness that the real point to be decided was, whether the interests
of President Krüger and the South African Republic, or those of the Cape Colony, as part of
the British Empire, had the greater claim upon the Government and Parliament of the Colony.
And Mr. Schreiner, when, on June 13th, he introduced the "no confidence" motion, asked the
House to condemn the Ministry on the ground that it had not shown any "sympathy" with, or made
any "conciliatory approach" towards, the "sister Republic." On Monday, June 20th, the second
reading of the Redistribution Bill was carried by a majority of seven, but two days later,
June 22nd, the Ministry found itself in a minority of five on Mr. Schreiner's motion of "no
confidence."[40] In these circumstances Sir Gordon Sprigg determined not to resign, but to
appeal to the electorate--a course justified by constitutional usage--and Parliament was dissolved.

         [Footnote 39: These were prisoners taken in the suppression
         of the revolt in Bechuanaland in 1897.]

         [Footnote 40: The little group of six, of which Sir James
         Innes was the head--including Sir R. Solomon and four
         others--voted with the Ministry for the Redistribution
         Bill, but against it on the "no confidence" motion (with
         the exception of Sir James himself). Also one moderate
         Bondsman voted for "redistribution," but went against the
         Ministry on the "no confidence" motion.]

[Sidenote: The general election, 1898.]

The election which ensued was fought with great determination and no little bitterness. Both
the Progressive party and the Bond were supplied with ample funds; the former had the purse
of Mr. Rhodes and other Englishmen to draw upon, while the latter was subsidised by President
Krüger and his agents from the revenues of the Transvaal.[41] Mr. Schreiner's election utterances
were studiously moderate; indeed, his letter of thanks to the electors of the Malmesbury division,
by whom he was returned to Parliament, contained a reference to "the noble empire which was
theirs, and to which they belonged." But such pronouncements by no means represented the sentiment
of the party with which he had identified himself. The objects of the Afrikander party, as
presented in their most attractive form by Ons Land, were to overthrow Rhodes and all his works,
to oppose the "Chartered clique" and "the influence of Mammon in politics," and to secure a
"pure administration" and "the cultivation of friendly relations with the neighbouring states:"
in other words, to give every possible encouragement to the Transvaal in the diplomatic struggle
with Great Britain. The Dutch press in general preached the creed of Afrikander nationalism
without disguise. The under-current of anti-British feeling which prevailed among the Dutch
population may be understood from the fact that the following frank appeal from a republican
nationalist to the Cape Afrikanders was published in the columns of Ons Land:

         [Footnote 41: Mr. Rhodes was opposed at Barkly West by a
         candidate financed from Pretoria.]

     "When one considers the state of affairs in the Cape Colony, it
     must be confessed the future does not appear too rosy. The
     majority of the Afrikander nation in the Cape Colony still go
     bent under the English yoke. The free section of the two
     Republics is very small compared to that portion subject to the
     stranger, and, whatever may be our private opinion, one thing at
     least is certain, namely, that without the assistance of the Cape
     Colonial Afrikanders the Afrikander cause is lost. The two
     Republics by themselves, surrounded as they are by the stranger
     [i.e. British] are unable to continue the fight. One day the
     question of who is to be master will have to be referred to the
     arbitrament of the sword, and then the verdict will depend upon
     the Cape Colonial Afrikanders. If they give evidence on our side
     we shall win. It does not help a brass farthing to mince matters.
     This is the real point at issue; and in this light every
     Afrikander must learn to see it. And what assistance can we
     expect from Afrikanders in the Cape Colony?... The vast majority
     of them (Afrikanders) are still faithful, and will even gird on
     the sword when God's time comes."[42]

         [Footnote 42: As translated in South Africa, October 15th,
         1898.]

At the same period the Dutch Reformed Church in the Colony had become what was, to all intents
and purposes, a vehicle for the advocacy of rebellion. The manner in which the principles of
Afrikander nationalism were combined with religious doctrine may be gathered from certain extracts
from the Studenten Blad of the Theological Seminary of Burghersdorp, which were translated
and published by The Albert Times. The passage following appeared on May 26th, 1899; and by
November 16th the Seminary was closed, since the bulk of the students had at that date joined
the Boer forces:

[Sidenote: Anti-british sentiment.]

     "Must we love this people [the English] who robbed our ancestors
     of their freedom, who forced them to leave a land dear to them as
     their heart's blood--a people that followed our fathers to the
     new fatherland which they had bought with their blood and
     snatched from the barbarians, and again threatened their freedom?
     Our fathers fought with the courage of despair, and retook the
     land with God's aid and with their blood. But England is not
     satisfied. Again is our freedom threatened by the same people,
     and not only our freedom, but our language, our nationality, our
     religion! Must we surrender everything, and disown our fathers? I
     cannot agree with this. The thought is hateful to me--the thought
     of trampling on the bodies of our fathers as we extend the hand
     of friendship to those who have slain our fathers in an
     unrighteous quarrel.... But some may say that the Bible teaches
     us to love our enemies. I think, however, that the text cannot be
     here applied. Race hatred is something quite distinct from
     personal enmity. When I meet an Englishman as a private
     individual I must regard him as my fellow-creature; if, however,
     I meet him as an Englishman, then I, as an Afrikander, must
     regard him as the enemy of my nation and my religion--as a wolf
     that is endeavouring to creep into the fold. This is the chief
     reason why we must regard them as our enemies; they are the
     enemies of our religion."

At the beginning of September, when the bulk of the elections were over, 40 Afrikander members
and 36 Progressives had been returned. Three seats remained to be filled. Mr. Rhodes, who had
been returned both for Barkly West and Namaqualand, decided to sit for the former constituency,
and the decision of the Bond to contest the seat thus vacated caused a delay in the new election
for Namaqualand. The return of the two representatives of the Vryburg division was not to take
place until the 15th. As all three constituencies were expected to elect Progressives--an expectation
which was fulfilled--the result of the general election was to give the Bond a bare majority
of one, and this in spite of the fact that a considerably larger total of votes had been cast
for the Progressive than for the Bond candidates.[43]

         [Footnote 43: In a house of 79, 40 Afrikander and 39
         Progressive members were returned. A very careful and
         reliable calculation showed that, of an aggregate of 82,304
         votes polled, 44,403 were cast for Progressive, and 37,901
         for Afrikander candidates. More than this, while no
         Progressive member was returned by a majority of less than
         137, three Afrikanders won their seats by respective
         majorities, of two, ten, and twenty. The Progressives,
         therefore, were entitled, on their aggregate vote, to a
         majority of six.]

[Sidenote: Milner's impartiality.]

These somewhat unusual circumstances gave rise to an incident which is significant of the absolute
impartiality with which Lord Milner discharged the duties of his office as constitutional Governor
of the Cape Colony. In view of the circumstance that the Progressives had polled a majority
of the electorate, although they were actually in a minority in the Assembly, Mr. Rhodes was
of opinion that the Ministry should remain in office, and postpone the meeting of Parliament
until the Namaqualand election had been held. He believed, further, that in the period of grace
thus obtained it would be found possible to induce one or other of the Bond members to change
sides, and thereby put the Ministry again in a majority. The immediate obstacle to the execution
of this plan of action was the necessity of obtaining "supply." The partial appropriation made
by Parliament before the dissolution was exhausted, and the only method by which funds could
be provided without the authority of Parliament was the issue of Governor's warrants on the
Treasury. Lord Milner was willing to sign warrants to enable the Ministry to carry on the administration
during the unavoidable interval between the exhaustion of the last appropriation and the commencement
of the new session. But, in view of the constitutional principle that no ministry which cannot
obtain supply is justified in remaining in office, he absolutely refused to issue warrants
for any longer period. He held, moreover, that as the Namaqualand election was a bye-election,
the new Parliament would be completed, and therefore competent to transact business, so soon
as the two members for Vryburg had been duly returned. Lord Milner was, no doubt, aware that
the Sprigg Ministry would have had a fair prospect of retaining office if Mr. Rhodes had been
allowed time to put his tactics into effect. On the other hand, he can scarcely have failed
to observe that there was another aspect of the question. A loyalist ministry, by showing an
undue desire to cling to office, with or without the employment of questionable political methods,
would run the risk of alienating the more scrupulous of the British members, and of failing
to obtain the support of the moderate Afrikander, who might otherwise have been won to the
Progressive and Imperialist side. But, as Governor of the Colony, he refused to allow any considerations
of party interest, on this or on any subsequent occasion, to influence his judgment. While
he conceived it to be his duty to give advice and criticism to public men of all shades of
political opinion, he showed himself inexorably opposed to the thought of straining his constitutional
powers in the slightest degree for the benefit of one side or the other.[44] Accordingly provision
for the expenses of administration was made by Governor's warrants up to September 30th, and
on the day following the Vryburg election (September 16th), a proclamation summoning Parliament
for October 7th was issued.

         [Footnote 44: Mr. Rhodes had obtained an interview with Lord
         Milner for the purpose of laying his views before him. But,
         it is said, the unwonted sternness of the Governor's
         expression at once convinced him of the hopelessness of his
         mission; and he withdrew without any attempt to argue his
         case. As Rhodes was a man of great personal magnetism, the
         incident is not without significance.]

[Sidenote: Schreiner, prime minister.]

On October 11th the Government was again defeated on a vote of "no confidence" by a majority
of two.[45] On the 17th the House assembled with an Afrikander Ministry formed by Mr. Schreiner.
In addition to the Premier it contained Dr. Te Water and Mr. Herholdt, both members of the
Bond; Messrs. Merriman and Sauer, who were now in close association with the Bond; and Mr.
(now Sir) Richard Solomon. The latter, who had been defeated in the general election, was provided
with a seat upon his accepting office as Attorney-General. The Progressives continued to be
led in opposition by Sir Gordon Sprigg. Mr. (now Sir) James Rose Innes was returned as an "independent,"
since he had found himself unable to work in association with a party in which Mr. Rhodes had
a dominant influence. The new Ministry was not strong enough to resist the continued demand
of the Progressives for a measure of electoral reform; but the Redistribution Bill, as now
passed, took the form of a compromise so disastrous to the British population that the Bond
majority was increased to eight by the new elections held in April, 1899.[46]

         [Footnote 45: Both sides were one short of their full
         strength, but a Progressive, Dr. (now Sir William) Berry, was
         chosen Speaker of the House.]

         [Footnote 46: The second reading of the Navy Contribution
         Bill, giving effect to Sir Gordon Sprigg's pledge, was
         carried on December 2nd, 1898, without a division.]

Mr. Chamberlain's policy, as we have seen, was based upon the belief that it was possible to
win over the Dutch in the Cape Colony and the Free State to the side of the Imperial Government.
But here, in October, 1898, was an Afrikander ministry in power in the Cape Colony pledged
to prevent the intervention of the Imperial Government in the affairs of the Transvaal. From
that moment the issue became more and more one not of right, but of might. In the Free State,
as we have seen, what was virtually an offensive and defensive alliance with the northern Republic
had been ratified by the Volksraad. In the Transvaal the work of armament was proceeding apace,
and Dr. Leyds had been despatched to Europe, as Envoy Extraordinary of the Republic, with authority
and funds calculated to enable him to enlist the active sympathy of the Continental powers
on behalf of the Pretoria Executive. His place as State Secretary had been filled, in July,
by Mr. Reitz, the former President of the Free State, and one of the actual founders of the
Afrikander Bond; and Mr. Smuts, a younger and even more enthusiastic believer in the nationalist
creed, was appointed to the office of State Attorney.[47] With the exception of Rhodesia and
Natal and the native territories immediately under the control of the Imperial Government,
the Afrikander nationalists dominated the whole of South Africa. Nor is it surprising that,
in these circumstances, the tone of the communications passing between the Transvaal Government
and the paramount Power should have become increasingly unsatisfactory.[48]

         [Footnote 47: The State-Secretaryship was offered first to
         Mr. Abraham Fischer, of the Free State, by whom it was
         declined (Memoirs of Paul Krüger, vol. ii., p. 297). The
         Cape Afrikanders desired the appointment of Mr. Smuts.]

         [Footnote 48: On May 7th, 1897, President Krüger had formally
         requested the Imperial Government to allow all questions at
         issue between the two Governments under the Convention to be
         submitted to the arbitration of the President of the Swiss
         Republic. To this proposal Mr. Chamberlain replied, on
         October 10th, that the relationship of Great Britain to the
         South African Republic being that of a suzerain Power, it
         would be impossible for the Imperial Government to permit the
         intervention of a foreign Power. On April 16th, 1898, in a
         despatch embodying the legal opinions of Mr. Farelly,
         President Krüger claims that the South African Republic is an
         independent State, and denies the existence of any
         "suzerainty" on the part of Great Britain. In forwarding this
         despatch Lord Milner made the apposite comment that the
         propriety of employing the term suzerainty to express the
         rights possessed by Great Britain is an "etymological
         question," and Mr. Chamberlain, replying on December 15th,
         accepts President Krüger's declaration that he is willing to
         abide by the articles of the Convention, reasserts the claim
         of suzerainty, declines to allow foreign arbitration, and
         demands the immediate fulfilment of Article IV. In a despatch
         of May 9th, 1899, Mr. Reitz asserts that the Republic is "a
         sovereign international State"; and on June 13th Mr.
         Chamberlain replies that he has no intention of continuing
         the discussion.]

[Sidenote: Milner's visit to England.]

In the (English) winter of 1898-9 Lord Milner paid a visit to England. Sir William Greene,
who had left Pretoria on a holiday on June 29th, was also at home during the same period. Lord
Milner's visit was due in part to the necessity for medical treatment;[49] but, in any case,
it had become desirable that he should be able to communicate fully to Mr. Chamberlain the
grave views which he had formed on the South African situation. He left for England on November
2nd, landed on the 19th, sailed on January 28th, and reached Capetown again on February 14th.
During the whole of the two months that he was in England he was engaged in an endeavour to
impress upon Mr. Chamberlain, and everybody else with whom he could converse, that the existing
state of affairs was one which, if allowed to remain unchanged, would end in the loss of South
Africa.

         [Footnote 49: Owing to a slight affection of the eye.]

During nineteen months of close observation and earnest, patient study, Lord Milner had grasped
the situation in its completeness. What he saw was the demoralising effect of the spectacle
of the Dutch ruling in the Cape Colony, and the British being tyrannised over in the Transvaal.
Looking at South Africa as a whole, there was the fact, as indisputable as it was grotesque,
that the British inhabitant was in a position of distinct inferiority to the Dutch; and this
although the Cape and Natal were British colonies, while the Transvaal and the Free State were
states subject to the authority of Great Britain as paramount Power. It was an impossible position.
What Lord Milner urged upon the Imperial Government was the plain necessity of putting an end
to an intolerable state of things which showed no capacity of righting itself; of pressing
for justice to the British population of the Transvaal, with an absolute determination to obtain
it. That such a policy might result in war, he knew; though neither he nor any one else realised,
in the beginning of 1899, how near war actually was. The reliance of the Transvaal oligarchy
on the Orange Free State, now bound to them by a formal alliance, and on the party of the Bond
now in power at the Cape, might tempt them to resist even the most moderate demands. But Milner
no doubt hoped that, if the British Government grasped the nettle firmly, and, while treating
the Transvaal with all possible diplomatic courtesy, yet left no doubt whatever of its inflexible
resolution, war might still be avoided. And in any case he felt that there was no option for
the British Government but to take up the case of the Transvaal British, if a shred of respect
for the power and name of Britain was to be preserved in South Africa. To embark on such a
policy involved two dangers: the danger of war, and what in Milner's eyes was perhaps even
greater, the danger that, by advancing just claims and then, letting ourselves be "bluffed"
out of them, we might yet further lessen, and indeed totally destroy, what hold we still possessed
upon the affection of the South African British or on the respect either of British or Dutch.
In the light of past experience the second danger may well have seemed to him the greater of
the two. But, with perils on both hands, he still felt that there was nothing for it but to
go forward, to make one supreme effort to save a situation which was rapidly becoming a hopeless
one. To have remained quiescent, with the forces which were gradually edging us out of the
Sub-Continent growing on every side, could only have ended in the overthrow, or at best, the
euthanasia of British dominion in South Africa.

[Sidenote: His verdict.]

It was in the course of this visit that Lord Milner realised the magnitude of the task that
lay before him. To save England in spite of herself; to keep South Africa a part of the Empire
in spite of ignorance at home, in the teeth of an armed Republic and an Afrikander ministry,
required not merely an iron will and mastership in statecraft, but a reasoned and unfaltering
belief in the justice of the British cause. "Certainly I engaged in that struggle with all
my might," he said long afterwards in his farewell speech at Johannesburg, "because I was,
from head to foot, one mass of glowing conviction of the rightness of our cause."

CHAPTER IV

UNDER WHICH FLAG?

Upon his return Lord Milner found that the storm clouds had gathered in the Transvaal. In a
despatch of January 13th, 1899, Mr. Chamberlain had informed the Pretoria Executive that the
proposed extension of the dynamite contract in its new form (i.e. as, in effect, a "privileged
importation by one firm," although nominally "a State undertaking") was held by the law officers
of the Crown to be as much a violation of the Convention as the original monopoly, which had
been cancelled on the representations of the Imperial Government in 1892. Mr. Reitz's reply,
which Lord Milner transmitted to the Colonial Office not long after his arrival at Capetown,
was a blunt assertion that, in the opinion of his Government, the Imperial Government had no
right to interfere. Like the Graaf Reinet speech, this despatch of May 4th was written at white
heat, but the opinions which it expressed were in no less a degree the mature and measured
judgments of a mind fully informed upon every detail germane to the issue. So much is this
the fact that all that is essential for the full comprehension of the second Reform Movement
at Johannesburg--the salient features of which have been outlined above--is to be found within
the limits of this brief and notable State document:

         [Footnote 52: The petition, with its 21,684 signatures,
         reached Lord Milner through Sir W. (then Mr.) Greene, the
         British Agent at Pretoria, on March 27th. It was forwarded by
         the High Commissioner to England in the mail of March 29th.
         The same ship, the Carisbrook Castle, carried Dr. Leyds,
         who was returning to Europe after a visit to Pretoria. Sir W.
         Greene had returned to South Africa in the same ship with
         Lord Milner (February 14th), and had stayed at Government
         Cottage (Newlands) with him for some days, discussing
         Transvaal matters, before proceeding to Pretoria on February
         19th.]

[Sidenote: The intervention despatch.]

     "Having regard to the critical character of the South African
     situation and the likelihood of an early reply by Her Majesty's
     Government to the Petition, I am telegraphing remarks which under
     ordinary circumstances I should have made by despatch. Events of
     importance have followed so fast on each other since my return to
     South Africa, and my time has been so occupied in dealing with
     each incident severally, that I have had no time for reviewing
     the whole position.

     "The present crisis undoubtedly arises out of the Edgar incident.
     But that incident merely precipitated a struggle which was
     certain to come. It is possible to make too much of the killing
     of Edgar. It was a shocking and, in my judgment, a criminal
     blunder, such as would have caused a popular outcry anywhere. It
     was made much worse by the light way in which it was first dealt
     with by the Public Prosecutor and then by the judge at the
     trial. By itself, however, it would not have justified, nor, in
     fact, provoked the present storm. But it happened to touch a
     particularly sore place. There is no grievance which rankles more
     in the breasts of the Uitlander population than the conduct of
     the police, who, while they have proved singularly incompetent to
     deal with gross scandals like the illicit liquor trade, are harsh
     and arbitrary in their treatment of individuals whom they happen
     to dislike, as must have become evident to you from the recurrent
     ill-treatment of coloured people. There are absolutely no grounds
     for supposing that the excitement which the death of Edgar caused
     was factitious. It has been laid to the door of the South African
     League, but the officials of the League were forced into action
     by Edgar's fellow-workmen. And, the consideration of grievances
     once started by the police grievance, it was inevitable that the
     smouldering but profound discontent of the population who
     constantly find their affairs mismanaged, their protests
     disregarded, and their attitude misunderstood, by a Government on
     which they have absolutely no means of exercising any influence,
     should once more break into flame.

     "We have, therefore, simply to deal with a popular movement of a
     similar kind to that of 1894 and 1895 before it was perverted and
     ruined by a conspiracy of which the great body of the Uitlanders
     were totally innocent. None of the grievances then complained of,
     and which then excited universal sympathy, have been remedied,
     and others have been added. The case is much stronger. It is
     impossible to overlook the tremendous change for the worse, which
     has been effected by the lowering of the status of the High Court
     of Judicature and by the establishment of the principle embodied
     in the new draft Grondwet that any resolution of the Volksraad
     is equivalent to a law. The instability of the laws has always
     been one of the most serious grievances. The new Constitution
     provides for their permanent instability, the judges being bound
     by their oath to accept every Volksraad resolution as equally
     binding with a law passed in the regular form, and with the
     provisions of the Constitution itself. The law prescribing this
     oath is one of which the present Chief Justice said that no
     self-respecting man could sit on the Bench while it was on the
     Statute Book. Formerly the foreign population, however bitterly
     they might resent the action of the Legislature and of the
     Administration, had yet confidence in the High Court of
     Judicature. It cannot be expected that they should feel the same
     confidence to-day. Seeing no hope in any other quarter, a number
     of Uitlanders who happen to be British subjects have addressed a
     petition to Her Majesty the Queen. I have already expressed my
     opinion of its substantial genuineness and the absolute bona
     fides of its promoters. But the petition is only one proof among
     many of the profound discontent of the unenfranchised population,
     who are a great majority of the white inhabitants of the State."

     "The public meeting of the 14th January was indeed broken up by
     workmen, many of them poor burghers, in the employment of the
     Government and instigated by Government officials, and it is
     impossible at present to hold another meeting of a great size.
     Open-air meetings are prohibited by law, and by one means or
     another all large public buildings have been rendered
     unavailable. But smaller meetings are being held almost nightly
     along the Rand, and are unanimous in their demand for
     enfranchisement. The movement is steadily growing in force and
     extent.

[Sidenote: The movement not artificial.]

     "With regard to the attempt to represent that movement as
     artificial, the work of scheming capitalists or professional
     agitators, I regard it as a wilful perversion of the truth. The
     defenceless people who are clamouring for a redress of grievances
     are doing so at great personal risk. It is notorious that many
     capitalists regard political agitation with disfavour because of
     its effect on the markets. It is equally notorious that the
     lowest class of Uitlanders, and especially the illicit liquor
     dealers, have no sympathy whatever with the cause of reform.
     Moreover, there are in all classes a considerable number who only
     want to make money and clear out, and who, while possibly
     sympathising with reform, feel no great interest in a matter
     which may only concern them temporarily. But a very large and
     constantly increasing proportion of the Uitlanders are not birds
     of passage; they contemplate a long residence in the country, or
     to make it their permanent home. These people are the mainstay of
     the reform movement as they are of the prosperity of the country.
     They would make excellent citizens if they had the chance.

     "A busy industrial community is not naturally prone to political
     unrest. But they bear the chief burden of taxation; they
     constantly feel in their business and daily lives the effects of
     chaotic local legislation and of incompetent and unsympathetic
     administration; they have many grievances, but they believe all
     these could gradually be removed if they had only a fair share of
     political power. This is the meaning of their vehement demand for
     enfranchisement. Moreover, they are mostly British subjects,
     accustomed to a free system and equal rights; they feel deeply
     the personal indignity involved in a position of permanent
     subjection to the ruling caste, which owes its wealth and power
     to their exertion. The political turmoil in the Transvaal
     Republic will never end till the permanent Uitlander population
     is admitted to a share in the government, and while that turmoil
     lasts there will be no tranquillity or adequate progress in Her
     Majesty's South African dominions.

     "The relations between the British Colonies and the two Republics
     are intimate to a degree which one must live in South Africa in
     order fully to realise. Socially, economically, ethnologically,
     they are all one country. The two principal white races are
     everywhere inextricably mixed up; it is absurd for either to
     dream of subjugating the other. The only condition on which they
     can live in harmony, and the country progress, is equality all
     round. South Africa can prosper under two, three, or six
     Governments; but not under two absolutely conflicting social and
     political systems--perfect equality for Dutch and British in the
     British Colonies side by side with the permanent subjection of
     the British to the Dutch in one of the Republics. It is idle to
     talk of peace and unity under such a state of affairs.

     "It is this which makes the internal condition of the Transvaal
     Republic a matter of vital interest to Her Majesty's Government.
     No merely local question affects so deeply the welfare and peace
     of her own South African possessions. And the right of Great
     Britain to intervene to secure fair treatment to the Uitlanders
     is fully equal to her supreme interest in securing it. The
     majority of them are her subjects, whom she is bound to protect.
     But the enormous number of British subjects, the endless series
     of their grievances, and the nature of those grievances, which
     are not less serious because they are not individually
     sensational, makes protection by the ordinary diplomatic means
     impossible. We are, as you know, for ever remonstrating about
     this, that, and the other injury to British subjects. Only in
     rare cases, and only when we are very emphatic, do we obtain any
     redress. The sore between us and the Transvaal Republic is thus
     inevitably kept up, while the result in the way of protection to
     our subjects is lamentably small. For these reasons it has been,
     as you know, my constant endeavour to reduce the number of our
     complaints. I may sometimes have abstained when I ought to have
     protested from my great dislike of ineffectual nagging. But I
     feel that the attempt to remedy the hundred-and-one wrongs
     springing from a hopeless system by taking up isolated cases, is
     perfectly vain. It may easily lead to war, but will never lead to
     real improvement."

[Sidenote: Enfranchisement the remedy.]

     "The true remedy is to strike at the root of all these
     injuries--the political impotence of the injured. What diplomatic
     protests will never accomplish, a fair measure of Uitlander
     representation would gradually but surely bring about. It seems a
     paradox, but it is true, that the only effective way of
     protecting our subjects is to help them to cease to be our
     subjects. The admission of the Uitlanders to a fair share of
     political power would no doubt give stability to the Republic.
     But it would, at the same time, remove most of our causes of
     difference with it, and modify and, in the long run, entirely
     remove that intense suspicion and bitter hostility to Great
     Britain which at present dominates its internal and external
     policy. And the best proof alike of its power and its justice
     would be to obtain for the Uitlanders in the Transvaal a fair
     share in the government of the country which owes everything to
     their exertions. It could be made perfectly clear that our
     action was not directed against the existence of the Republic. We
     should only be demanding the re-establishment of rights which now
     exist in the Orange Free State, and which existed in the
     Transvaal itself at the time of, and long after, the withdrawal
     of British sovereignty. It would be no selfish demand, as other
     Uitlanders besides those of British birth would benefit by it. It
     is asking for nothing from others which we do not give ourselves.
     And it would certainly go to the root of the political unrest in
     South Africa, and, though temporarily it might aggravate, it
     would ultimately extinguish the race feud, which is the great
     bane of the country."[53]

         [Footnote 53: C. 9,345.]

It was Lord Milner's intention that the text of this despatch should have been made public
upon its receipt in England. It contained the essential facts of the South African situation;
and, what is more, it exhibited with perfect frankness the connection between Dutch ascendancy
in the Cape Colony and Dutch tyranny in the Transvaal--a matter which was very imperfectly
understood. The circumstance that these essential facts were before the British people, and,
moreover, the circumstance that President Krüger knew that they were before the British people,
would, he believed, greatly increase the effect of the strong demand for reforms which the
Imperial Government had determined to address to the Pretoria Executive in response to the
petition to the Queen.

[Sidenote: Hofmeyr's intervention.]

Nor was he alone in this opinion. Mr. Hofmeyr knew that a despatch of grave importance had
gone home. He had gathered, no doubt, a fairly accurate notion of its tenor from Mr. Schreiner,
whom Lord Milner had warned some time before of "the gravity of the situation."[54] It is not
going beyond the limits of probability to assume that the Master of the Bond realised the effect
which the publication of these plain truths, backed by the authority of the High Commissioner,
would produce upon the mind of the English people, and that he thereupon determined to take
steps to prevent a turn of affairs which, as he conceived, would be most unfavourable to the
nationalist cause. Surmises apart, it is certain, at least, that five days sufficed to place
Mr. Hofmeyr in a position to ask Lord Milner if he would favourably consider an invitation
to meet President Krüger in conference at Bloemfontein; and that within three days more (May
12th) a definite proposal to this effect had been made through the agency of President Steyn
and accepted by Mr. Chamberlain. Nor, is it any less certain that, in view of the friendly
discussion which was to take place so soon, the Secretary of State decided to postpone the
publication of Lord Milner's despatch. This is the short history of the Bloemfontein Conference.
It was a counter-stroke dealt by one of those "formidable personalities" of which Mr. Asquith
spoke, and in all respects worthy of Mr. Hofmeyr's statesmanship. Indeed, the methods which
he employed for paralysing the machinery of British administration in South Africa were always
subtle: infinitely more subtle than those which Parnell adopted in the not very dissimilar
circumstances of the Home Rule campaign.

         [Footnote 54: C. 9,345. See forward, p. 155.]

The decision to postpone the publication of Lord Milner's despatch of May 4th was a serious
mistake, the injurious effect of which was felt both at the Conference and afterwards. But
before we observe the incidents by which this central event was immediately preceded, it is
necessary to examine more fully the political environment in which Lord Milner found himself
established now that the April elections[55] had given the Afrikander party an assured tenure
of power, and, at the same time, the moment had arrived for the Imperial Government to fulfil
the pledge given on February 4th, 1896, for the redress of the "admitted grievances" of the
Uitlanders.

         [Footnote 55: See p. 125.]

[Sidenote: The Bond and the ministry.]

The Schreiner Ministry was the agent of the Bond; it could not exist for a day if the Bond
withdrew its support. The Bond majority in the Legislative Assembly had been returned by the
Dutch inhabitants of the Colony for the avowed purpose of preventing the intervention of the
Imperial Government in the affairs of the Transvaal. The Ministry and its supporters had begun
by ranging themselves definitely on the side of the Transvaal. And, therefore, in all that
was done by either party from the Bloemfontein Conference to the Ultimatum, it followed, ex
hypothesi, that, in their opinion, the Transvaal was right, and England was wrong. Twice, as
we shall see, Mr. Schreiner, on behalf of the Cape Ministry, hastened to declare publicly that
the proposals of the Transvaal were all that was satisfactory, before he even knew what those
proposals were. The Cape nationalists represented themselves as "mediators." They had as little
intention of mediating between the Pretoria Executive and the British Government as a barrister,
heavily feed and primed with his client's case, has of mediating between his client and his
client's opponent at the hearing of a case in court.

But the Bond was "loyal." The Bond members of the Cabinet--T. Nicholas German Te Water, and
Albertus Johannes Herholdt, no less than William Philip Schreiner, John Xavier Merriman, Jacobus
Wilhelmus Sauer, and Richard Solomon--had sworn, upon taking office, "to be faithful and bear
true allegiance to Her Majesty."

[Sidenote: The Schreiner ministry.]

The situation in which Lord Milner now found himself was thus one of so extraordinary a character
that it would be difficult to find a parallel to it in the annals of our colonial administration.
As High Commissioner, he had advocated in the most emphatic terms the exercise of the authority
of Great Britain, as paramount Power, in the Transvaal. As Governor of the Cape Colony, he
was bound to administer the affairs of the Colony in accordance with the advice tendered by
his ministers. And the advice which ministers were pledged to give him was the direct opposite
of that which he himself, as High Commissioner, had given to the Imperial Government. To dismiss
his ministers--the alternative to accepting this advice--would have been an extreme measure,
to be justified only upon clear evidence that they had failed in the duty which they, no less
than he himself, owed to the Crown. Whether Mr. Schreiner's Cabinet did so fail is a matter
that the reader must determine for himself; possibly it would be difficult to show that, collectively
or individually, the Cape ministers did anything more injurious to British interests than was
done by the Liberal Opposition--again collectively or individually--in England. One thing is
certain: the action of the Afrikander Cabinet, whether within or beyond the letter of its allegiance,
lessened--and was intended to lessen--the force of an effort on the part of the Imperial Government,
which might otherwise have averted the necessity for war.

And here certain questions which will arise inevitably to the mind that pursues the narrative
of the next few months, must be anticipated. What was the position of Mr. Schreiner? What was
his real standpoint, and what was his relationship to Lord Milner? How was it that two Englishmen,
Mr. Merriman and Sir (then Mr.) Richard Solomon, came to be in this Afrikander Cabinet, and
what were their respective motives in thus associating themselves with the objects of the Bond?

[Sidenote: The prime minister.]

Mr. Philip Schreiner was the son of a German by birth, a missionary of the London Missionary
Society, who had married an Englishwoman, and afterwards settled in the Orange Free State.
The Schreiner family was remarkable for intellectual power. Of his sisters one is the authoress
of The Story of an African Farm, and a second, Mrs. Lewis, like her brother Theophilus, was
an active Imperialist and a determined opponent of the Bond. Mr. Schreiner himself was educated
at the South African College at Capetown, and subsequently at Cambridge, where he was placed
first in the First Class of the Law Tripos, and afterwards elected a Fellow of Downing. After
a successful career at the Cape Bar he was appointed Attorney-General in Mr. Rhodes's Ministry,
a position which he held at the time of the Raid. He was prevented by his strong disapproval
of the part then played by Mr. Rhodes from joining the Progressive party; and, having accepted
the position of Parliamentary leader of the Bond, he had become, as we have seen, Prime Minister
through the Bond victory in the Cape General Election of 1898. It is characteristic alike of
Mr. Schreiner and of his political position that the only word of sympathy with the British
connection, uttered from first to last during this election by the Bond candidates or their
supporters, was the conventional reference to the greatness of the British Empire which, as
we have noticed, occurred in his address to the electors of Malmesbury. With these political
and social ties, Mr. Schreiner was compelled to be a South African first and a British subject
second. His is precisely the kind of case where true allegiance can be expected only when a
federal constitution has been created for the Empire.

     "See," said Lord Milner, in his farewell speech at Johannesburg,
     "how such a consummation would solve, and, indeed, can alone
     solve, the most difficult and most persistent of the problems of
     South Africa; how it would unite its white races as nothing else
     can. The Dutch can never own a perfect allegiance merely to Great
     Britain. The British can never, without moral injury, accept
     allegiance to any body politic which excludes their motherland.
     But British and Dutch alike could, without loss of integrity,
     without any sacrifice of their several traditions, unite in loyal
     devotion to an empire-state, in which Great Britain and South
     Africa would be partners, and could work cordially together for
     the good of South Africa as a member of that greater whole."[56]

         [Footnote 56: The Johannesburg Star, April 1st, 1905.]

With Schreiner, and such as he, loyalty to the Crown was for the moment the product of intellectual
judgment or considerations of policy. All, or almost all, the instinctive feelings, born of
pleasant associations with persons and places, which enter so largely into the sentiment of
patriotism seem to have drawn him, as they drew his sister, Mrs. Cronwright-Schreiner, into
sympathy with the cause of Afrikander nationalism. What his view was upon the particular issue
now agitating South Africa may be gathered from an answer which he gave to a question put to
him by Mr. Chamberlain in the course of the inquiry into the Raid (1897):

     MR. CHAMBERLAIN: I suppose your view is that the Imperial
     Government should adopt the same policy as the Cape Government,
     and should refrain from even friendly representations as not
     being calculated to advance the cause of the Uitlanders?

     MR. SCHREINER: Yes, decidedly, so far as purely internal concerns
     are concerned.[57]

         [Footnote 57: Proceedings of the Select Committee on British
         South Africa (Q. 4,385).]

In other words, Mr. Schreiner was a consistent and convinced opponent of Imperial intervention.
But there was a difference between his motive and that of the Bond leaders. Schreiner desired
to prevent intervention, not because he did not recognise the justice of the claims of the
Uitlanders, but because he believed that the Imperial Government was devoid of any right to
intervene under the Conventions; while, at the same time, his instinctive sympathy with the
Afrikander nationalists made him blind to the existence of any moral right of interference
that England might possess, as the Power responsible for the well-being of South Africa as
a whole. And so, partly by force of environment and partly by a narrow and erroneous interpretation
of the principles of international law,[58] the Boer and Hollander oligarchy in the Transvaal,
with all its moral obliquity and administrative incompetence, had become, as it were, a thing
sacrosanct in his eyes. Mr. Hofmeyr and the Bond leaders, on the other hand, desired to prevent
intervention because they were perfectly satisfied to see the British Uitlanders in a position
of political inferiority, and perfectly content with the whole situation, the continuance of
which, as they knew, was directly calculated to bring about the supremacy of the Dutch race
in South Africa. Therefore Hofmeyr made no effort to improve the state of affairs in the Transvaal
until he saw the storm bursting. And when, at a later stage, he set himself to work in earnest
to induce President Krüger to grant reforms, he did so to save the cause of Afrikander nationalism
and not to assist the British Government in winning justice for the Uitlanders.

         [Footnote 58: For the position of Great Britain from the
         point of view of international law see some remarks in the
         note on page 580 (Chapter XII.).]

[Sidenote: Sir Richard Solomon.]

Sir Richard Solomon, who was a nephew of Saul Solomon, the prominent radical politician chiefly
instrumental in carrying the vote for Responsible Government through the Legislative Council
of the Cape Colony (1872), was the leader of the Bar at Kimberley. His presence, at first sight,
formed a wholly incongruous element in such a ministry. On the native question, in his fiscal
views, as a supporter of the Redistribution Bill, and in his sympathy with the Uitlanders,
he was in direct conflict with the characteristic principles of the Bond. His one link with
the Afrikander party was his distrust of Rhodes; and in view of his unquestioned loyalty to
the British connection, his decision to join the Schreiner Ministry is probably to be attributed
to his personal friendship for the Prime Minister. On the other hand, his ability, detachment
from local parties, and the respect which he commanded, made him a valuable asset to Mr. Schreiner.

[Sidenote: Messrs. Merriman and Sauer.]

Mr. Merriman, whose close political associate was Mr. Sauer, had twice held office under Mr.
Rhodes (1890-96); but his separation from Rhodes, consequent upon the Raid, had thrown him
into the arms of the Bond. Some of the more striking incidents in Mr. Merriman's political
career have been already mentioned.[59] Fifteen years ago more Imperialist than Rhodes, he
was soon to show himself more Bondsman than the Bond. Once the resolute, almost inspired, castigator
of the separatist aims of that organisation, he was now in close and sympathetic association
with the leaders of Afrikander nationalism in the Republics and the Cape Colony. The denunciations
of "capitalism" and "capitalists" with which he now regaled his Afrikander allies, had an ill
savour in the mouth of the man who had tried to amalgamate the Diamond Mines at Kimberley--failing
where Rhodes and Beit afterwards succeeded--and who, attracted by the magnet of gold discovery,
for a short time had acted as manager of the Langlaagte Estate and Mr. J. B. Robinson's interests
at Johannesburg. With political principles thus unstable and a mind strangely sensitive to
any emotional appeal, it is not surprising that Mr. Merriman displayed the proverbial enthusiasm
of the convert in his new political creed. His original perception of the imprudence and administrative
incompetency of President Krüger's régime was rapidly obliterated by a growing partizanship,
which in turn gave place to an unreasoning sympathy with the Boer cause, combined with a bitter
antipathy against all who were concerned, whether in a civil or military capacity, in giving
effect to the intervention of the Imperial Government on behalf of the British industrial community
in the Transvaal. Mr. J. W. Sauer was destined to exhibit his political convictions in a manner
so demonstrative that his words and acts, as recorded in the sequel, will leave the reader
in no doubt as to the reality of his sympathy with the Boer and Afrikander cause. For the moment,
therefore, it is sufficient to notice that, although he shared Mr. Merriman's present abhorrence
of "capitalism" and "capitalists," he was for many years of his life a promoter and director
of mining and other companies.

         [Footnote 59: See pp. 61, 69, and 93.]

Of the two Bondsmen in the Cabinet, Mr. Herholdt was a member of the Legislative Council, and
a Dutch farmer of moderate views and good repute; while Dr. Te Water was the friend and confidant
of Mr. Hofmeyr, and, as such, the intermediary between the Bond and the Afrikander nationalists
in the Free State and in the Transvaal.

The Schreiner Cabinet was the velvet glove which covered the mailed hand of Mr. Hofmeyr. Dr.
Te Water had been Colonial Secretary in the Sprigg Ministry up to the crisis of May, 1898.
He was now "minister without portfolio" in the Schreiner Ministry. His presence was the sign
and instrument of the domination of the Bond; and the domination of the Bond was as yet the
permanent and controlling factor in the administration of the Colony under Responsible Government.
The fact that only two out of six members of the Ministry were Bondsmen, is to be referred
to the circumstance that the actual business of administration had been hitherto mainly in
the hands of a small group of British colonial politicians, who were prepared to bid against
each other for the all-important support of the Dutch vote. With the majority of these men,
to be in office was an object for the attainment of which they were prepared to make a considerable
sacrifice in respect of their somewhat elastic political principles. The denial of political
rights to the British population in the Transvaal, by threatening the maintenance of British
supremacy in South Africa, had now for the first time created a British party in the Cape Colony--the
Progressives--strong enough to act in independence of the Bond. The existence of this British
party, not only free from the Bond, but determined (although it was in a minority) to challenge
the Bond predominance, was a new phenomenon in Cape politics. In itself it constituted an appreciable
improvement upon the previously existing state of affairs; since the British population was
thus no longer hopelessly weakened by being divided into two parties of almost equal strength,
nor were its leaders any longer obliged to subordinate their regard for British interests to
the primary necessity of obtaining office by Bond support.

[Sidenote: Policy of the ministry.]

Mr. Schreiner's Ministry, however, in spite of a difference of motives on the part of its individual
members, was unanimous in its desire to prevent that intervention of the Imperial Government
for which, in Lord Milner's judgment, there was "overwhelming" necessity. The idea of inducing
President Krüger to grant such a "colourable measure of reform"[60] as would satisfy the Imperial
Government, or at least deprive it of any justification for interference by force of arms,
was in contemplation some months before the Bloemfontein Conference took place. On January
1st, 1899, Mr. Merriman wrote to President Steyn with this object in view. "Is there no opportunity,"
he said,[61] "of bringing about a rapprochement between us, in which the Free State might play
the part of honest broker? We, i.e., the Colony and Free State, have common material interests
in our railway, apart from our anxiety to see the common welfare of South Africa increase from
the removal of the one great cause of unrest and the pretext for outside interference."

         [Footnote 60: Mr. Merriman's expression. See his letter to
         Mr. Fischer at p. 161.]

         [Footnote 61: Cd. 369.]

And Lord Milner, very soon after his return from England, was sounded by Mr. Schreiner as to
the possibility of settling the franchise question by means of a South African Conference.
Early in March--when Mr. Smuts was in Capetown, and the Pretoria Executive was engaged in the
abortive attempt to separate the leaders of the mining industry from the rank and file of the
Uitlander population by offering them certain fiscal and industrial reforms, if only they would
undertake to discourage the agitation for political rights--the same subject was brought before
the High Commissioner by Mr. Merriman himself. In pursuance of the real purpose of the Afrikander
Ministry--i.e. to obtain a fictitious concession from President Krüger, instead of the "fair
share in the government of the country" required by the Imperial Government--it was proposed
originally to exclude Lord Milner altogether from the negotiations by arranging that the Transvaal
Government should bring forward proposals for reform at an inter-State Conference consisting
of representatives of the governments of the two Republics and the self-governing British Colonies.
But Lord Milner was, happily, High Commissioner as well as Governor of the Cape. As High Commissioner,
he declared that at any such Conference the Imperial Government must be separately represented.
Neither the Transvaal nor the Free State was willing to enter a Conference on these terms,
although they were acceptable to the Cape Government; and the plan fell to the ground.

It was then that Mr. Hofmeyr intervened, in view of Lord Milner's despatch of May 4th; and
President Steyn, persuaded with dramatic swiftness to accept the rôle of peace-maker, which
his predecessor, Sir John Brand, had played with such success in 1881, secured the grudging
consent of President Krüger to meet the High Commissioner at Bloemfontein.

[Sidenote: Hofmeyr's tour de force.]

The incidents which led to the accomplishment of Hofmeyr's tour de force are singularly instructive.
Lord Milner's despatch was telegraphed from Capetown about midday on May 4th. It was soon apparent
that there was a leakage, legitimate or illegitimate, from the Colonial Office. On Saturday,
the 6th, Mr. Schreiner received warning telegrams from trusted sources in London, including
"Hofmeyr's best friends"; and on this day he wrote a letter to President Steyn containing a
"proposition" of so confidential a character that it could not be telegraphed in spite of the
urgent need of haste.[62] On Monday, the 8th, Mr. Schreiner received more warning telegrams,
and Dr. Te Water, in writing to President Steyn, expressed his hope that the proposition, made
by Schreiner in his letter of Saturday, might by this time "have been accepted, or that something
had been done which would achieve the same purpose."[63] On the same day the Cape papers published
an alarming telegram reproducing from The Daily Chronicle[64] a statement that the South African
situation was very serious, and that the British Government was prepared to "take some risk
of war." On Tuesday, the 9th, Lord Milner was present at a dinner given by the Speaker of the
Legislative Assembly; and Mr. Hofmeyr, who was among the guests, in the course of a long conversation
with him after dinner, broached the idea of his meeting President Krüger at Bloemfontein. On
Wednesday, the 10th, Lord Milner sent for Mr. Hofmeyr and discussed the subject more at length;
and, a little later, when he had gone to the Governor's Office, Mr. Schreiner came in with
a telegram from President Steyn, in which the Cape Prime Minister was requested to ascertain
formally whether the High Commissioner would be willing to accept an invitation to meet President
Krüger. This telegram Lord Milner forwarded to Mr. Chamberlain, adding that the Cape Cabinet
was "strongly" in favour of acceptance, and that Schreiner himself had declared that the invitation
was the result of the "influence which he (Schreiner) had been using with the Transvaal Government
ever since I had warned him of the gravity of the situation."[65] Mr. Chamberlain's reply (May
12th), authorised Lord Milner to accept President Steyn's invitation, and in doing so, to state
that a despatch was already on its way which contained a similar proposal made by the Imperial
Government--

         [Footnote 62: Letter of Te Water to Steyn. See forward, p.
         162, where this letter is given.]

         [Footnote 63: Ibid.]

         [Footnote 64: Then under the editorship of Mr. Massingham.]

         [Footnote 65: C. 9,345.]

[Sidenote: The conference arranged.]

     "in the hope that, in concert with the President, you may arrive
     at such an arrangement as Her Majesty's Government could accept
     and recommend to the Uitlander population as a reasonable
     concession to their just demands and a settlement of the
     difficulties which have threatened the good relations"

between the two Governments. This was the famous despatch of May 10th, in which Mr. Chamberlain
reviewed carefully and exhaustively the whole situation as between the Transvaal and the Imperial
Government, and formally accepted the Uitlanders' Petition to the Queen. It was not published
until June 14th, i.e., after the Bloemfontein Conference had been held. It was then issued,
together with Lord Milner's despatch of May 4th, in a Blue-book containing the complete record
of all discussions of Transvaal affairs subsequent to Lord Milner's appointment.

In the course of the next few days communications passed rapidly between Lord Milner, Mr. Chamberlain,
President Steyn, and President Krüger, with the result that, on May 18th, President Steyn's
invitation was formally accepted, and on the following day it was arranged that the Conference
should begin on May 31st. Never was intervention more effective, or less obtrusive. Mr. Hofmeyr's
part in the affair was confined apparently to an after-dinner conversation with the High Commissioner.
Nor was the directing hand of the Master of the Bond revealed more fully until Lord Roberts's
occupation of Bloemfontein placed the British authorities in possession of part of the communications
which passed at this time, and during the four succeeding months, between the Cape nationalists
and their republican confederates. And even in these documents Hofmeyr's name is rarely found
at the end of a letter or telegram. It is Schreiner or Te Water who writes or telegraphs to
Steyn or Fischer, adding sometimes, by way of emphasis, "Hofmeyr says" this or that. In the
meantime (May 22nd), Lord Milner had telegraphed, for "an indication of the line" which Mr.
Chamberlain wished him to take at the Conference. He himself suggested that the franchise question
should be put in the foreground; since it would be useless to discuss other matters in dispute
until a satisfactory settlement of this all-important question had been achieved. Mr. Chamberlain
replied (May 24th), agreeing with the line indicated by Lord Milner:

     "I think personally that you should lay all the stress," he
     telegraphed, "on the question of the franchise in the first
     instance. Other reforms are less pressing, and will come in time
     if this can be arranged satisfactorily, and the form of oath
     modified."

Mr. Chamberlain at the same time authorised Lord Milner to inform the Uitlander petitioners
that they might rely upon obtaining the general sympathy of the Imperial Government in the
prayers which they had addressed to the Queen.

[Sidenote: Motives of Afrikander leaders.]

There was no doubt in Lord Milner's mind as to the real motives which had prompted the Afrikander
nationalist leaders to make this effort. They recognised at length that he was in earnest,
and that Mr. Chamberlain was in earnest, and they desired, above all things, to avoid a crisis
which would force a conflict before their ultimate plans had fully matured. Lord Milner knew
that any delay which involved the continuance of the present position--a position which was
one of moral superiority for the Dutch--would unite the whole of the Dutch, with a section
of the British population, against Great Britain within a measurable period. He recognised
that the franchise question was the one issue which could be raised between the paramount Power
and the South African Republic in which the whole of the Cape Dutch would not throw in their
lot bodily with their republican kinsmen. This very anxiety on the part of Mr. Hofmeyr to prevent
the decisive action of the Imperial Government was evidence of the truth of his estimate. But
as a response to the appeal of the Graaf Reinet speech, this Afrikander mediation came too
late. "Hands off" the Transvaal was the first plank in the platform of the Schreiner Ministry;
"reform" was a second and subsidiary plank, adopted in place of the first only when they had
been driven to abandon it by Lord Milner's resolution and statesmanship. But the purpose of
the Ministry now, no less than before, was to hinder, and not to help, the British Government
in obtaining justice for the Uitlanders. Moreover, the Transvaal armaments were well advanced,
and the Pretoria Executive was too deeply committed to a policy of defiance to allow it to
draw back without humiliation. Nevertheless, Lord Milner felt bound to avail himself of any
prospect of peace that the Conference might afford. When, however, Mr. Schreiner, in bringing
President Steyn's telegram, had said that he regarded the proposal as "a great step in advance
on the part of President Krüger," Lord Milner had replied that he could "hardly take that view,
as the invitation did not emanate from President Krüger himself," and contained no indication
of "the basis or subject of discussion."

[Sidenote: Krüger's obduracy.]

The High Commissioner was right. The slight degree in which any appeal adequate to the occasion
was likely to prove acceptable to President Krüger may be gathered from a passage in a letter
of Sir Henry de Villiers to President Steyn (May 21st), in which the Chief Justice of the Cape
refers to his recent experience in Pretoria when he was on this very errand of "mediation":

     "On my recent visit to Pretoria I did not visit the President, as
     I considered it hopeless to think of making any impression on
     him; but I saw Reitz, Smuts, and Schalk Burger, who, I thought,
     would be amenable to argument: but I fear that either my advice
     had no effect on them, or else their opinion had no weight with
     the President.

     "I urged upon them to advise the President to open the Volksraad
     with promises of a liberal franchise and drastic reforms.

     "It would have been so much better if these had come voluntarily
     from the Government, instead of being gradually forced from them.
     In the former case, they would rally the greater number of the
     malcontents around them; in the latter case, no gratitude will be
     felt to the Republic for any concessions made by it. Besides,
     there can be no doubt that, as the alien population increases, as
     it undoubtedly will, their demands will increase with their
     discontent, and ultimately a great deal more will have to be
     conceded than will now satisfy them. The franchise proposal made
     by the President seems to be simply ridiculous.

     "I am quite certain that if in 1881 it had been known to my
     fellow-Commissioners that the President would adopt his
     retrogressive policy, neither President Brand nor I would ever
     have induced them to consent to sign the Convention. They would
     have advised the Secretary of State to let matters revert to the
     condition in which they were before peace was concluded; in other
     words, to recommence the war....

     "I should like to have said a word about the dynamite monopoly,
     but I fear I have already exhausted your patience. My sole object
     in writing is to preserve the peace of South Africa. There are,
     of course, many unreasonable demands; but the President's
     position will be strengthened, and, at all events, his conscience
     will be clear in case of war, if he has done everything that can
     reasonably be expected from him. I feel sure that, having used
     your influence to bring him and Sir Alfred together, you will
     also do your best to make your efforts in favour of peace
     successful. I feel sure also that Sir Alfred is anxious to make
     his mission a success; but there can be no success unless the
     arrangement arrived at is a permanent one, and not merely to tide
     over immediate difficulties."

And again, in writing to his brother, Mr. Melius de Villiers, Chief Justice of the Free State,
at a later date (July 31st), he says, in allusion to this same visit to Pretoria:

     "From an intimate acquaintance with what was going on, I foresaw,
     three months ago, that if President Krüger did not voluntarily
     yield he would be made to do so, or else be prepared to meet the
     whole power of England. I accordingly begged of Krüger's friends
     to put the matter to him in this way: On the one side there is
     war with England; on the other side there are concessions which
     will avoid war or occupation of the country. Now, decide at once
     how far you will ultimately go; adopt the English five years'
     franchise; offer it voluntarily to the Uitlanders, make them your
     friends, be a far-sighted statesman, and you will have a majority
     of the Uitlanders with you when they become burghers. The answer
     I got was: We have done too much already, and cannot do more. Yet
     afterwards they did a great deal more. The same policy of doing
     nothing except under pressure is still being pursued. The longer
     the delay, the more they will have to yield."

[Sidenote: Afrikander advice.]

This was plain speaking and sound statesmanship. Nor was Mr. Merriman's appeal, written almost
concurrently (May 26th) with Sir Henry's letter to President Steyn, any less emphatic. It was
addressed to Mr. Abraham Fischer, a member of the Free State Executive and a convinced nationalist;
and it is otherwise remarkable for an estimate of the economic conditions of the Boers which
subsequent experience has completely justified:

     "I most strongly urge you," he writes, "to use your utmost
     influence to bear on President Krüger to concede some colourable
     measure of reform, not so much in the interests of outsiders as
     in those of his own State. Granted that he does nothing. What is
     the future? His Boers, the backbone of the country, are perishing
     off the land; hundreds have become impoverished loafers, landless
     hangers-on of the town population. In his own interests he should
     recruit his Republic with new blood--and the sands are running
     out. I say this irrespective of agitation about Uitlanders. The
     fabric will go to pieces of its own accord unless something is
     done.... A moderate franchise reform and municipal privileges
     would go far to satisfy any reasonable people, while a
     maintenance of the oath ought to be sufficient safeguard against
     the swamping of the old population."[66]

         [Footnote 66: All these letters are in Cd. 369.]

But the Schreiner Cabinet contained, as we have seen, a representative of Mr. Hofmeyr in the
person of Dr. Te Water. Mr. Merriman could see that the position in the Transvaal was one that
could not go on indefinitely--that "the fabric would go to pieces of its own accord, unless
something was done." Dr. Te Water was blind even to this aspect of the question. The correspondence
found after the occupation of Bloemfontein (March 13th, 1900), from which these letters are
taken, contains also certain letters to President Steyn that disclose both the nature of the
Afrikander mediation, as it was understood by the nationalist leaders of the Cape Colony, and
the faithfulness with which Dr. Te Water served them.

The Te Water correspondence, as we have it,[67] consists of three letters written respectively
on May 8th, 17th, and 27th, from "the Colonial Secretary's Office, Capetown," to President
Steyn. The replies of the latter have been withheld, not unnaturally, from the public eye.
In the first of these letters Dr. Te Water "hopes heartily" that Schreiner's "proposition"
for the Conference has been accepted, and then proceeds to impress upon him the advisability
of President Krüger's yielding on the ground, not of justice, but of temporary expediency.
In so doing, this Minister of the Crown completely identifies himself with the aspirations
of the Afrikander nationalists, and he concludes by asking for "a private telegraphic code.
The absence thereof was badly felt on Saturday, when Schreiner was obliged to write instead
of telegraphing."

         [Footnote 67: Cd. 369.]

     "Circumstances appear to me now," he writes, "to be such that our
     friends in Pretoria must be yielding; with their friends at the
     head of the Government here, they have a better chance that
     reasonable propositions made by them will be accepted than they
     would have had if we had been unsuccessful at the late elections
     and our enemies were advisers.

[Sidenote: "Play to win time".]

     "Schreiner, who knows more than any one of us, feels strongly
     that things are extremely critical.

     "Telegrams from people in London, whom he thoroughly trusts, such
     as J. H.'s[68] best friends, received by him on Saturday and this
     morning, strengthen him in his opinion. We must now play to win
     time. Governments are not perpetual, and I pray that the present
     team, so unjustly disposed towards us, may receive their reward
     before long. Their successors, I am certain, will follow a less
     hateful policy towards us. When we hear that you have succeeded
     in Pretoria, then we must bring influence to bear here."

         [Footnote 68: Mr. Hofmeyr.]

In the second letter Dr. Te Water regrets that he cannot share President Steyn's view that
"all the noise about war is bluff." Then there follows a passage showing that Mr. Steyn had
entertained expectations of assistance from the Schreiner Cabinet that even Dr. Te Water could
not reconcile with his ideas of ministerial allegiance:

     "But now I should like a few words of explanation," he writes,
     "as to what you mean by saying that 'The Cape Ministry will be
     able to do much more good.' In what respect do you think that we
     can be of more use than before?"

Assuming, for the moment, that President Steyn had written, "In the event of war becoming inevitable,
or having broken out, the Cape Ministry will be able to do much more good than it is doing
now," or words to this effect, it would appear that he shared the erroneous views of Mr. Reitz,
against which Sir Henry de Villiers had protested during his visit to Pretoria. In the letter
to Mr. Melius de Villiers, from which we have quoted above, Sir Henry writes:

     "When I was in the Transvaal three months ago, I found that Reitz
     and others had the most extraordinary notions of the powers and
     duties of a Cape Ministry in case of war. They are ministers of
     the Crown, and it will be their duty to afford every possible
     assistance to the British Government. Under normal conditions, a
     responsible Ministry is perfectly independent in matters of
     internal concern, but in case of war they are bound to place all
     the resources of the Colony at the disposal of the British Crown;
     at least if they did not do so they would be liable to
     dismissal."

Dr. Te Water then continues:

     "I would very much like to know your views, and if we are not
     already working in that direction I will try, as far as possible,
     to do what I can to give effect to your wishes, which may be for
     the welfare of all. Please let me hear immediately and fully
     about this."

[Sidenote: Te Water and Steyn.]

The last letter, written on the eve of the Conference, opens with a curiously significant passage.
There were some things discussed between Steyn and Te Water that Mr. Schreiner was not to know.
President Steyn has been getting nervous. Dr. Te Water, therefore, reassures him:

     "Yours received on my return this morning from Aberdeen. Telegram
     also reached me. I keep all your communications strictly private:
     naturally you do not exclude my colleagues and our friend
     Hofmeyr. I have often read extracts to them, but do not be
     afraid; I shall not give you away."

It also contains the information that, as President Steyn had no private code available, Dr.
Te Water has borrowed the private telegraphic code of the Cabinet for President Steyn's use.

     "To-day, by post, I send you personally our private telegraphic
     code for use. I borrowed one from Sauer; we have only three, and
     I must, therefore, ask you to let me have it back in a couple of
     weeks. Please keep it under lock, and use it yourself only. It
     is quite possible that you will have to communicate with us, and
     the telegraphic service is not entirely to be trusted. I am
     afraid that things leak out there in one way or another."

And he then drives home the advice given before: "It is honestly now the time to yield a little,
however one may later again tighten the rope."

One other letter must be given to complete this view of the circumstances in which the conference
met. It was written on May 9th, 1899--that is to say, on the day on which Mr. Hofmeyr proposed
to Lord Milner that he should accept President Steyn's good offices to arrange the conference
with President Krüger. It is addressed to President Steyn, and, translated, runs as follows:

                    "DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
                         "GOVERNMENT OFFICES, PRETORIA.
                                   "May 9th, 1899.

     "DEAR MR. PRESIDENT,--

     "I am sorry that I could not earlier fulfil my promise as to the
     ammunition. The reason of it is that his honour the
     Commandant-General [General Joubert] was away, and I could
     consequently not get the desired information earlier.

     "The General says that he has 15 to 20 (twenty) million Mauser
     and 10 to 12 million Martini-Henry cartridges, and if needed will
     be able to supply you with any of either sort.

     "On that score your Excellency can accordingly be at rest.

     "The situation looks very dark indeed, although nothing is as yet
     officially known to us. I trust that some change may still come
     in it through your proposed plan. The copies re dynamite will
     be sent to you at the earliest opportunity. With best greeting,

     "Your humble servant and friend,
                                   "P. GROEBLER."[69]

         [Footnote 69: The original of this letter is now in the
         possession of Mr. E. B. Iwan Müller, by whom it was published
         in his work, Lord Milner and South Africa. The translation
         is that of the Department of Military Intelligence.]

The Cape nationalists had asked the Republics to "play for time," because they believed that,
with the return of the Liberal party to power in England, it would be possible to achieve the
aims of their policy without the risk of a conflict in arms. The Republics were "playing for
time," but in another sense. They were waiting until their military preparations were sufficiently
complete to allow them to defy the British Government.

[Sidenote: The Bloemfontein conference.]

It was in these circumstances that the High Commissioner met President Krüger in conference
at Bloemfontein (May 31st--June 5th). He was accompanied only by his staff: Mr. G. V. Fiddes
(Imperial Secretary), Mr. M. S. O. Walrond (Private Secretary), Colonel Hanbury Williams (Military
Secretary) and Lord Belgrave (A.D.C.),[70] with Mr. Silberbauer (the interpreter) and a shorthand
writer. Mr. Schreiner had been very solicitous to attend the Conference; but Lord Milner, following
his usual practice, had determined to keep the affairs of the High Commissionership completely
distinct from those in which he was concerned as Governor of the Cape Colony. The absence both
of the Prime Minister and Mr. Hofmeyr was not unnaturally a matter of "sincere regret" to Dr.
Te Water, as he informed President Steyn on the eve of the Conference.[71] Nor did Lord Milner
avail himself of President Steyn's willingness to take part in the proceedings; but, at the
High Commissioner's suggestion, Mr. Fischer (who was a member of the Free State Executive)
was invited to act as interpreter--a duty which he discharged to the satisfaction of both parties.
With President Krüger there went to Bloemfontein Mr. Schalk Burger and Mr. A. D. Wolmarans
(members of the Transvaal Executive), Mr. J. C. Smuts (the State Attorney), and two other officials.
All of these, the High Commissioner's Staff, and Mr. Fischer were present at the meetings of
the Conference; but the actual discussion was confined to Lord Milner and President Krüger.[72]
As regards the business in hand, the failure to publish the despatch of May 4th had deprived
Lord Milner of what would have proved a helpful influence. Mr. Hofmeyr's action had procured
an opportunity for "friendly discussion." But the friendliness was to be all on the side of
the Imperial Government. For the purpose of the Afrikander leaders was, as we have seen, to
secure a fictitious concession on the part of President Krüger. Lord Milner's aim was to obtain
by friendly discussion a genuine and substantial measure of reform; and the prospect of his
success would have been greatly increased if this despatch and Mr. Chamberlain's reply to it
had been before the public when the Conference took place. It was written with the object of
making the British people and President Krüger alike aware how grave was the judgment which
he had formed of the existing situation. With England alive to the near danger which threatened
her supremacy in South Africa, and President Krüger brought to understand that the man with
whom he had to deal was one who held these opinions, Lord Milner could have been "friendly"
without the risk of having his friendliness mistaken for a readiness to accept the illusory
concession which was all that the Afrikander mediation was intended to secure.

         [Footnote 70: 2nd. Lieut. Royal Horse Guards. Exactly one
         year after the last day of the Conference (June 5th), he
         (then A.D.C. to Lord Roberts and Duke of Westminster) ran up
         the British flag over the Raadzaal at Pretoria.]

         [Footnote 71: Letter of May 27th (in Cd. 369).]

         [Footnote 72: Lord Milner left Capetown by special train at
         8.30 a.m. on Monday, May 29th, and reached Bloemfontein
         punctually at 5 p.m. on Tuesday. Here he was met by President
         Steyn and various officials of the Free State; and an address
         of welcome was presented to him by the Mayor of Bloemfontein
         upon his arrival at the private house which had been provided
         for his accommodation during the Conference. At eleven
         o'clock on the following morning, Wednesday, the 31st, the
         High Commissioner went to the Presidency, where he was
         introduced by Mr. Steyn to President Krüger, Mr. Schalk
         Burger and Mr. Wolmarans. The first meeting of the Conference
         took place in the afternoon at 2.30, in the new offices of
         the Railway Department. In the evening a largely attended
         reception was given by President Steyn, at which Mr. Krüger
         was present for a short time and Lord Milner for about an
         hour. The Conference closed on the afternoon of Monday, June
         5th, and Lord Milner then paid a farewell visit to President
         Steyn. The High Commissioner's special train left
         Bloemfontein on the following morning at 10.30, and reached
         Capetown at 6.45 on the evening of Wednesday, the 7th, where
         he was received by a large crowd, including three of the Cape
         Ministers and a number of Progressive Members of Parliament.
         President Steyn, who was present at the station on Tuesday
         morning to see the High Commissioner off, did everything
         possible for the comfort and convenience of his state guest
         during the week that he was in Bloemfontein. The proceedings
         of the Conference, with the High Commissioner's report upon
         them, are published in C. 9,404.]

[Sidenote: Lord Milner's attitude.]

As it was, Lord Milner was placed in a position of great embarrassment. If he "used plain language"
he exposed himself to the charge of entering upon the discussion in an aggressive spirit, calculated
to make agreement difficult. If he adopted a conciliatory tone, his arguments seemed to be
nothing more than the abortive protests with which the grim old President had cheerfully filled
the republican waste-paper basket for the last ten years. It has been suggested that Lord Milner
might have obtained a better result if he had shown himself less "inflexible"; if, in short,
he had been willing to accept a "compromise." But any such criticism is based upon an entire
misunderstanding of the method which the High Commissioner did, in fact, adopt. The five years'
franchise--the Bloemfontein minimum--was in itself a compromise. What Lord Milner said, in
effect, to President Krüger was this: "I have a whole sheaf of grievances against you: the
dynamite monopoly, excessive railway rates, interference with the independence of the judiciary,
a vicious police system, administrative corruption, municipal abuses, and the rest. I will
let all these go in exchange for one thing--a franchise reform which will give at once to a
fair proportion of the Uitlander population some appreciable representation in the government
of the Republic." Lord Milner not only offered a compromise, but a compromise that enormously
reduced the area of dispute. His "inflexibility" arose from the simple fact that, having readily
and frankly yielded all that could be yielded without sacrificing the paramount object of securing
a permanent settlement of the Uitlander question, he had nothing further to concede, and said so.

[Sidenote: President Krüger.]

No two men more characteristic of the two utterly unlike and antagonistic political systems,
which they respectively represented, could have been found. At the evening reception given
by President Steyn on the opening day of the Conference, a big man, in a tightly buttoned frock-coat,
stood just inside the door for ten minutes, and then moved awkwardly away. Above the frock-coat
was a peasant's face, half-shrewd, half-furtive, with narrow eyes and a large, crooked mouth
which somehow gave the man a look of power. This was President Krüger, ætat. 74. Once, doubtless,
Paul Krüger's large and powerful frame had made him an impressive figure among a race of men
as stalwart as the Boers. But he was now an old man: the powerful body had become shapeless
and unwieldy; he had given up walking, and only left his stoep to drag himself clumsily into
his carriage, and although he retained all his old tenacity of purpose, his mind had lost much
of its former alertness. It needed all Mr. Smuts' mental resources--all that the young Afrikander
had so recently learnt at Cambridge and the Temple--to enable the old President to maintain,
even by the aid of his State-Attorney's ingenious paper pleadings, a decent show of defence
against the perfect moderation and relentless logic with which the High Commissioner presented
the British case. Lord Milner went to the Conference to make "one big straightforward effort
to avert a great disaster"; Krüger to drive a "Kafir bargain." The end was as Lord Milner had
foreseen. To yield the necessary instalment of reform seemed to President Krüger, in this mind,
"worse than annexation"; and on June 5th Lord Milner declared, "The Conference is absolutely
at an end, and there is no obligation on either side arising out of it."

The Bloemfontein Conference made retreat for ever impossible. Lord Milner himself was perfectly
conscious that in holding President Krüger to the franchise question he had made the conference
the pivotal occasion upon which turned the issue of peace or war. He knew, when he closed the
proceedings with a declaration that his meeting with President Krüger had utterly failed to
provide a solution of the franchise question, that from this day forward there could be no
turning back for him or for the Imperial Government. But he knew, too, that poor as was the
prospect of obtaining the minimum reforms by any subsequent negotiation, nothing could contribute
more to the attainment of this object than the blunt rejection of the makeshift proposals put
forward by President Krüger at Bloemfontein.

[Sidenote: After the conference.]

The result of the Conference, from this point of view, and its effect upon the British population
in South Africa, may be gathered from the address presented to Lord Milner on his return to
Capetown, and from his reply to it. By the mouth of Mr. Alfred Ebden, a veteran colonist, the
British population of the Colony then (June 12th) expressed their "admiration" of Lord Milner's
"firm stand" on behalf of the Uitlanders, offered him their "earnest support," and declared
their "entire confidence in his fairness and ability to bring these unhappy differences to
a satisfactory settlement." The essence of Lord Milner's reply lies in the words, "some remedy
has still to be found." The nationality problem would be solved if the principle of equality
could be established all round. The Transvaal is "the one State where inequality is the rule,
which keeps the rest of South Africa in a fever." It is inconsistent, he says, with the position
of Great Britain as paramount Power, and with the dignity of the white race, that a great community
of white men "should continue in that state of subjection which is the lot of the immigrant
white population of the Transvaal." And he concludes:

     "I see it is suggested in some quarters that the policy of Her
     Majesty's Government is one of aggression. I know better than any
     man that their policy, so far from being one of aggression, has
     been one of singular patience, and such, I doubt not, it will
     continue. But it cannot relapse into indifference. Can any one
     desire that it should? It would be disastrous that the present
     period of stress and strain should not result in some settlement
     to prevent the recurrence of similar crises in the future. Of
     that I am still hopeful. It may be that the Government of the
     South African Republic will yet see its way to adopt a measure
     of reform more liberal than that proposed at Bloemfontein. If
     not, there may be other means of achieving the desired result. In
     any case, it is a source of strength to those who are fighting
     the battle of reform, and will, I believe, contribute more than
     anything else to a peaceful victory, to feel that they have
     behind them, as they perhaps never had before, the unanimous
     sympathy of the British people throughout the world."[73]

         [Footnote 73: C. 9,415.]

In the four months that followed the Bloemfontein Conference a burden of toil and responsibility
was laid upon Lord Milner which would have crushed any lesser man into utter passivity or resignation.
An Afrikander Cabinet, with a nationalist element reporting its confidential councils with
the Governor to Mr. Hofmeyr, the Bond Master, and President Steyn, the secret ally of President
Krüger, would have been sufficient in itself to paralyse the faculties of any ordinary administrator
at such a crisis. But this was not the only adverse influence with which circumstances brought
Lord Milner into collision. Incredible as it may seem, it is none the less the fact that Sir
William Butler, the General-in-Command of the British forces in South Africa, and the military
adviser of the High Commissioner, was in close political sympathy with Mr. Merriman and Mr.
Sauer, and in complete agreement with their views. For General Butler held that a war to compel
the Boer oligarchy to grant the elementary political rights to the British in the Transvaal,
which even Mr. Gladstone's Cabinet intended to secure for them, would be the "greatest calamity
that ever occurred in South Africa." And more than this, that if the Home Government did make
war, it would be merely playing the game of "the party of the Raid, the South African League."[74]

         [Footnote 74: Evidence before War Commission. Cd. 1,791.]

[Sidenote: Milner and Butler.]

It is generally supposed that Lord Milner's disagreement with General Butler had its origin
in the conduct of the latter, when Acting High Commissioner, in refusing the first Uitlander
petition. This is quite untrue. Lord Milner's view of the Uitlander grievances was, of course,
different from that of General Butler, who treated the appeal to the Queen as an unnecessary
and artificial agitation against the Transvaal Government, and thereby placed the Acting British
Agent, Mr. Edmund Fraser, in a position of extreme difficulty; since Mr. Fraser was, of course,
desirous of carrying out his duties upon the general lines followed by Sir William Greene in
accordance with the instructions of the Home Government. But the Transvaal question had never
been discussed between Lord Milner and General Butler; and at the time of the Edgar incident
Lord Milner was in England, and he had no means, therefore, of forming an opinion as to the
significance which attached to this event, or the agitation to which it gave rise. On this
particular point there was no opportunity for a conflict of opinion. Had Lord Milner been in
South Africa he would, no doubt, have accepted the first petition to the Queen; but he made
no complaint of General Butler's refusal to receive it. For the moment it was General Butler's
business, as Acting High Commissioner, and not Lord Milner's. From a wider point of view, General
Butler's action was injurious. It was one of the many instances in which their English sympathisers
have led the Boers to destruction. But there was no friction, or argument, or unfriendliness
between him and the High Commissioner on this account. This arose at a much later period; and
arose, not on the general question of policy, but on the question of the necessity of military
precautions in view of the imminence of war.

[Sidenote: Reinforcements requested.]

The friction between the High Commissioner and the General-in-Command in South Africa was the
most disastrous manifestation of a disregard of the necessity for timely military preparations
on the part of the Imperial Government, which, when war broke out, jeopardised the success
of the British arms. For quite distinct reasons both General Butler and the Imperial Government
were opposed to any preparations for war. The Salisbury Cabinet were reluctant to take any
step that might seem to indicate that they considered that the door to a peaceful solution
of the dispute was closed. In thus subordinating the needs of the military situation to those
of the political, they acted in direct opposition to the maxim si pacem vis, bellum para. They
carried this policy to such a point that they disregarded the advice of Lord Wolseley, the
Commander-in-Chief, and that of the Intelligence Department,[75] with the result that when
the war did break out the available British forces in South Africa were found to be in a position
of grave disadvantage. The motive of General Butler's opposition was entirely different. His
view was that what made the situation dangerous was not President Krüger's obduracy, but what
he called the "persistent effort" to "produce war" made by the British inhabitants who desired
Imperial intervention in the Transvaal. And he, therefore, held that any reinforcements sent
by the Home Government would "add largely to the ferment which he (General Butler) was endeavouring
to reduce by every means."[76] The position in June and July, from a military point of view,
was as extraordinary as it was harassing to Lord Milner. In England the civil authority, the
Cabinet, was refusing to make the preparations which its military adviser declared to be necessary.
In South Africa the civil authority, the High Commissioner, was provided with a military adviser
who cabled to the Home Government political reasons for not sending the reinforcements which
the High Commissioner then urgently required. In these circumstances it is obvious that nothing
but the supreme efforts of Lord Milner could have saved England from an overwhelming military
defeat, or from a moral catastrophe even more injurious to the interests of the empire.

         [Footnote 75: See p. 319 (note 2).]

         [Footnote 76: Cd. 1,791.]

When Lord Milner saw, before the Bloemfontein Conference, that the situation was becoming dangerous--and
still more after the Conference--he desired that preparations for war should be made by the
Imperial Government as a precautionary measure. Between December 1st, 1896, and December, 1898,
the South African garrison had been raised from 5,409 to 9,593 men.[77] It remained at a little
under 10,000 up to the end of August, 1899. Lord Milner had repeatedly impressed upon the Home
Government, from the middle of 1897 onwards, that 10,000 men was the minimum force consistent
with safety. In view of the increased tension after Bloemfontein and of the enormous armament
of the South African Republic, he felt that this minimum had become inadequate, and that it
was desirable, and would strengthen the chance of a peaceful submission of the Boers, to steadily
but unostentatiously increase the garrison. And what he desired especially was that the general
on the spot should do, locally and quietly, all that could be done to advance these preparations.
The measures which he urged were that plans should be prepared for the defence of Kimberley
and other towns on the colonial borders, and that all supplies and material of war necessary
to put these plans into effect should be accumulated, and, as far as possible, distributed.

         [Footnote 77: War Commission, Cd. 1,791.]

[Sidenote: General Butler's objections.]

General Butler, as we have seen, was opposed to all preparations for war; and it is not surprising,
therefore, that everybody who offered assistance, or advice on the military situation, was
coldly received by him. Mr. (now Sir) Aubrey Wools-Sampson, who, after the failure of the Bloemfontein
Conference, threw up lucrative civil employment in Rhodesia in order to come to the Cape and
place himself, as a volunteer, at the service of the military authorities in the event of war,
was so completely discouraged that he went to Natal to form the nucleus of the splendid fighting
force afterwards known as the Imperial Light Horse. When Colonel Nicholson, then head of the
British South Africa Police in Rhodesia, suggested that, in the same event, an attack on the
Transvaal, launched from the north, might prove valuable as a means of diverting a portion
of the Burgher forces from employment against the Cape Colony and Natal, General Butler is
said to have looked upon his proposal as another Jameson Raid.[78] And when, after the Bloemfontein
Conference had been held, the Home Government, in response to Lord Milner's repeated appeals,
proposed to send out the very inadequate reinforcements which formed its first effort to strengthen
the British military position in South Africa, General Butler immediately represented to the
War Office that these additional troops were unnecessary, and protested against their being
despatched.

         [Footnote 78: This was precisely the rôle played by
         Mafeking, only defensively, not offensively.]

General Butler's action at this crisis is so remarkable, and so unprecedented, that the circumstances
must be related with some precision. In 1896, and again in 1897, General Goodenough had submitted
to the War Office schemes for the defence of the British colonies, in which both the enormous
extent of the frontiers to be protected and the great numerical superiority of the burgher
forces to the then existing British garrison were fully exhibited. A memorandum of the Department
of Military Intelligence, dated September 21st, 1898, urged "that defence schemes should be
drawn up locally for the Cape and Natal"; that "the arrangements which would be made for the
despatch of reinforcements from England, and for the provision of supplies and transport, be
worked out fully in the War Office; and that the General Officer Commanding, South Africa,
be informed what action under these arrangements would be required of him on the outbreak of
war."[79] On December 21st, 1898, General Butler, upon succeeding to the South African command,
was requested to furnish, at an early date, a fresh scheme of defence embodying his own proposals
for the distribution of the 9,500 British troops then in South Africa in the event of war.
At the same time the latest information as to the military strength of the two Republics--showing,
among other things, a total of 40,000 burghers[80]--was forwarded to him, and his attention
was directed to the fact that the troops under his command must be considered as a purely defensive
force, whose rôle would be to repel invasion pending the arrival of reinforcements from England.
In the absence of any reply to this communication General Butler was again requested, on June
6th, 1899 (i.e. after the failure of the Bloemfontein Conference), to report on the defence
of the British colonies. He then sent his scheme of defence, cabling the substance in cipher,
on June 9th, and sending the text by despatch on June 14th. On June 21st he received a War
Office telegram informing him that it had been decided to "increase the efficiency of the existing
force" in South Africa. And to this communication was added the question: "Do you desire to
make any observations?"

         [Footnote 79: Cd. 1,789 (War Commission).]

         [Footnote 80: These were the figures of the D. M. I.
         "Military Notes" of June, 1898; in the revised "Military
         Notes" of June, 1899, the estimated total of the Boer force
         was considerably greater--some 50,000 exclusive of colonial
         rebels.]

[Sidenote: "Ringing the War Office bell".]

The sequel can be given in General Butler's words: "I looked on the one side," he said, in
giving evidence before the War Commission, "and I saw what seemed to me a very serious political
agitation going on with a Party that I had not alluded to yet, whom I had always looked upon
as a Third Party; they were pressing on all they knew. The Government did not seem to be aware
of that, and this telegram brought matters to such a point that I thought it gave me the opportunity
to speak. So I took these words 'any observations,' and answered in a way which I thought would
at least ring the War Office bell."

The telegram with which General Butler "rang the War Office bell" was this:

     "You ask for my observations: present condition of opinion here
     is highly excited, and doubtless the news quoting preparations
     referred to in your telegram, if it transpires, will add largely
     to the ferment which I am endeavouring to reduce by every means.
     Persistent effort of a party to produce war forms, in my
     estimation, gravest elements in situation here. Believe war
     between white races, coming as sequel to Jameson Raid, and
     subsequent events of last three years, would be greatest calamity
     that ever occurred in South Africa."

This telegram elicited the following reply from the Home Government:

     "You cannot understand too clearly that, whatever your private
     opinions, it is your duty to be guided in all questions of policy
     by the High Commissioner, who is fully aware of our views, and
     whom you will, of course, loyally support."

In the course of his evidence before the War Commission General Butler gave some further explanation
of the motives which had prompted his reply to the telegram of June 21st. In response to the
question, "It was never in your contemplation that Mr. Krüger would declare war?" he replied:

[Sidenote: General Butler's view.]

     "My view was this, that as long as I held the neck of the bottle,
     so to speak, there would be no war ... but to my mind the minute
     there was the least indication of the Imperial Government coming
     in, in front of, or behind, that party [i.e. "the party of the
     Raid, the South African League"], there would be a serious state
     of things. Until then there was, to my mind, no probability--no
     possibility--of an invasion. That was the state of my mind at the
     time ... [and] I wished to point it out before final decisions
     were arrived at."

And in a note which he desired to be appended to his evidence before the War Commission, General
Butler wrote with reference to his failure to endorse Lord Milner's request for immediate reinforcements,
that in his opinion "such a demand at such a time would be to force the hands of the Government,
play into the hands of the 'Third Party,' and render [himself] liable to the accusation in
the future that [he] had by this premature action produced or hastened hostilities."[81]

         [Footnote 81: All of these extracts will be found in Cd.
         1,791.]

Here was an impasse from which obviously there was but one method of extrication. Either the
High Commissioner or his military adviser must be recalled. That the Imperial Government did
not recall General Butler then and there cannot be attributed to any ignorance on their part
of Lord Milner's extreme anxiety for adequate military preparations. It arose, no doubt, from
the circumstance that General Butler was known to be favourably inclined to the Boer cause,
and that, therefore, his removal at this juncture would have been represented by the friends
of the Boers in England, and by the official leader of the Opposition, as evidence of Mr. Chamberlain's
alleged determination to force a war upon the Transvaal. General Butler was allowed, in these
circumstances, to remain at the Cape until the latter part of August, when fresh employment
was found for him, and Lieutenant-General Forestier-Walker was appointed to the Cape command.
How General Butler was able to reconcile the opinions which he had expressed to the War Office
with the discharge of his duties as military adviser to Lord Milner during these two critical
months is a matter which need not be discussed. The decision to retain him in the South African
command would seem, on the face of it, to have been a grave administrative error. It is enough
for us to record the undoubted facts that Lord Milner was supremely dissatisfied with the action
of General Butler as his military adviser, and that whereas the High Commissioner had requested
the Home Government to provide him with a new military adviser in June, General Butler did
in fact remain at the Cape until the latter part of August.

General Butler is reputed to be both an able man and a good soldier. It is interesting, therefore,
to know what was his view, and to compare it with that of Lord Milner. In these opinions, which
dominated General Butler during the period in question (May to August, 1899), there was only
one point in which he and Lord Milner found themselves at one. This was the danger of the war;
that is to say, the seriousness of the military task which would await Great Britain in the
event of war with the Dutch in South Africa.

[Sidenote: What Lord Milner thought.]

As a great deal has been written on the subject of the military unpreparedness of England,
and it has, moreover, been frequently stated in this connection that Sir William Butler was
the only man to form a just estimate of the military strength of the burgher forces, it is
very desirable to place on record what was really in Lord Milner's mind at this time. He agreed
with General Butler in his estimate of the formidable character of the Boers; but he differed
from him in everything else. To Lord Milner's mind the situation presented itself primarily
from a political, and not from a military point of view. He believed that England was bound
to struggle at least for political equality between the British and Dutch throughout South
Africa. He felt that, after our bad record in the past, it would be absolutely fatal to begin
to struggle for this equality unless we were prepared to carry our efforts to a successful
issue. He thought that such a claim as this for the enfranchisement of the Uitlanders was one
that admitted of only two alternatives--it must never be made, or, being made, it must never
be abandoned. The whole weakness of our position in South Africa was a moral weakness. The
contempt which the Dutch had learnt for England was writ large over the whole social and political
fabric of South Africa. Englishmen could not look the Dutch in the face as equals. If, after
all our previous humiliations and failures; after Majuba, and after the Raid, we were going
to commence a struggle for equality--nothing more, and then not to get it, the shame would
be too grave for any great Power to support, or for those who sympathised with us in South
Africa to endure. We had raised the British party in South Africa from the dust by the stand
which we had made against Dutch tyranny in the Transvaal. If we were going to retreat from
that position, the discredit of our action would compel England to resign her claim to be paramount
Power, and with the resignation of that claim England's rights in South Africa would inevitably
shrink to the narrow limits of a naval base at Simon's Town, and a sub-tropical plantation
in Natal. What was fundamental was not the possibility of war, but the impossibility of retreat.

[Sidenote: Retreat impossible.]

Lord Milner still thought it possible, though not probable, that, if the British Government
took a perfectly strong and unwavering line, the Dutch would yield, not indeed everything,
but something substantial. He also foresaw that it was possible, perhaps probable, that they
would not yield, and that in this case a state of tension would be created which must end in
war. His position was, therefore, definite and consistent from the first. As we are pursuing
a policy from which we cannot retreat--a policy that may lead to war--it is wholly unjustifiable,
he said, to remain unprepared, unarmed, without a plan, as if war were quite out of the question.
And so far from thinking that the preparations which he urged upon the Imperial Government,
and more especially upon General Butler, would make war more likely, he believed that they
would make it less likely. But even if they did lead the Dutch to fight, it was not war but
"retreat" that must be avoided at all costs.

CHAPTER V

PLAYING FOR TIME

On June 8th, 1899, Mr. Chamberlain declared in the House of Commons, that with the failure
of the Bloemfontein Conference, a "new situation" had arisen. If the Imperial Government had
translated this remark into action, the South African War would have been less disastrous,
less protracted, and less costly. But the same order of considerations which prevented the
Salisbury Cabinet from recalling General Butler in June, caused it to withhold its sanction
from the preparations advised by the Commander-in-Chief, Lord Wolseley. From the political
point of view it was held to be desirable that the British Government should have an absolutely
good case as before the world--a case which would not only ensure the whole-hearted support
of the great bulk of the nation, and the active sympathy of the over-sea British communities;
but one that would be so strong in justice as to overcome, or at least mitigate, the natural
repugnance with which international opinion regards a great and powerful state that imposes
its will upon a small and weak people by force of arms. Above all, it had become a cardinal
principle in Mr. Chamberlain's South African policy to refrain to the last moment from any
step which would necessarily close the door to a peaceful solution of the differences which
had arisen between the South African Republic and the Imperial Government.

[Sidenote: Policy of Home Government.]

Influenced by these considerations, the Government refused to give effect to the measures demanded
by the military situation, as it existed after the failure of the Bloemfontein Conference,
except in so far as these demands could be satisfied without prejudice to the dominating political
objects which it had in view. As to the nature of these measures there could be no reasonable
doubt. It was necessary to raise the British forces in the Cape Colony and Natal to a point
sufficient for defensive purposes, and to prepare an additional force--an army corps--for any
offensive movement against one or both of the Republics. And as 6,000 miles of sea separated
the seat of war from the chief base of the army, the United Kingdom, it was obvious that the
defensive force should be despatched at once, and the offensive force prepared no less speedily,
in order that it might be held in readiness to embark at the earliest moment that its services
were required.

To Lord Milner's reiterated warnings of the last two years, there was now added the definite
advice of Lord Wolseley and the Department of Military Intelligence. In a memorandum dated
June 8th, 1899,[82] and addressed to the Secretary of State for War, the Commander-in-Chief
advised the mobilisation in England of a force consisting of one complete army corps, one cavalry
division, one battalion mounted infantry, and four infantry battalions for lines of communication;
the collection of transport in South Africa; and the immediate initiation of all subsidiary
arrangements necessary for conveying these additional troops and their equipment to the seat
of war. This advice was disregarded; but in place of the immediate mobilisation of the Army
Corps the Cabinet decided to increase the efficiency of the existing force in South Africa,
and General Butler was informed of this decision, as we have seen, on June 21st. On July 7th,[83]
Lord Wolseley recommended, in addition to the mobilisation of the offensive force--which he
still deemed necessary--that "the South African garrisons should be strengthened by the despatch
of 10,000 men at a very early date." Instead of adopting these measures, the Government confined
itself to doing just the few necessary things, both for defence and offence, that could be
done without creating any belief in its warlike intentions, and without involving any appreciable
expenditure of the public funds. Undoubtedly this latter consideration--the desire to avoid
any expenditure that might afterwards prove to have been unnecessary--added weight to the purely
political argument against immediate military preparation.

         [Footnote 82: Cd. 1,789.]

         [Footnote 83: Cd. 1,789.]

[Sidenote: Preparations delayed.]

The course actually taken by the Salisbury Cabinet was this. Instead of the immediate mobilisation
of the offensive force, Lord Wolseley was instructed to prepare a scheme for the "constitution,
organisation, and mobilisation" of such a force; and to do this in consultation with Sir Redvers
Buller, the General Officer commanding at Aldershot, who had been selected to lead the British
forces in South Africa in the event of war. Instead of the immediate despatch of additional
troops sufficient to render the South African garrisons capable of repelling invasion--which
was what Lord Milner had especially desired--the actual deficiencies of the existing Cape garrison[84]
were made good by the despatch in July of small additions of artillery and engineers, and by
directing General Butler to provide the fresh transport without which even this diminutive
force was unable to mobilise. At the same time certain special service officers,[85] including
engineers and officers of the Army Service Corps, were sent out to organise the materials,
locally existing, for the defence of the eastern frontier of the Cape Colony and the southern
districts of Rhodesia; and generally to make preliminary preparations for the provisioning,
transport, and distribution of any British forces that might be despatched subsequently to
the Cape Colony.

         [Footnote 84: Three battalions, 6 guns, and a company of
         Royal Engineers were all the troops available for the defence
         of the Cape frontiers at this time (i.e. June).]

         [Footnote 85: Most of these came by mail boats on July 18th
         and 25th. Col. Baden-Powell (who was entrusted with the
         important duty of organising a force for the defence of
         Southern Rhodesia, and subsequently of raising the mounted
         infantry corps which held Mafeking) arrived on the latter
         date.]

These were the utterly inadequate reinforcements sent in response to Lord Milner's urgent appeal,
and in disregard of General Butler's protest that they were wholly undesirable--an opinion
which was endorsed in England by Sir H. Campbell-Bannerman, when, on June 17th, 1899, he declared
that there was nothing in the South African situation to justify even preparations for war.

During the interval between the Bloemfontein Conference and General Butler's recall in the
latter part of August Lord Milner's position was one of unparalleled difficulty. The Cape and
Natal garrisons were maintained in a state of perilous weakness by the policy of the Home Government.
The measures to be undertaken locally for the defence of the colonies, which the Cabinet had
sanctioned, were wholly insufficient in Lord Milner's opinion. And the general execution of
these wholly insufficient local measures was left in the hands of a General Officer who had
told the Secretary of State that he absolutely disapproved of them on political grounds, since
the mere announcement of their being made would "add largely to the ferment," which he "was
[then] endeavouring to reduce by every means." The Cape Ministry, with whom rested the disposal
of the colonial forces, was a ministry placed in office by the Bond for the especial purpose
of opposing British intervention in the Transvaal. In these circumstances it needed all Lord
Milner's mastery of South African conditions, and all his tact and address, to make the relations
between himself and his Afrikander Cabinet tolerable; and, above all, in view of the refusal
of the Imperial Government to sanction the military preparations advised by the Commander-in-Chief,
it required ceaseless vigilance on his part to prevent the acceptance of an illusory settlement
which would have sounded the death-knell of British supremacy in South Africa.

[Sidenote: President Krüger's proposals.]

On the last day of the Conference President Krüger had put in a memorandum in which he expressed
his intention of introducing his franchise scheme to the Volksraad, and his hope that the High
Commissioner would be able to recommend this, and a further proposal for the settlement of
disputes by arbitration, to the favourable consideration of the Imperial Government. Lord Milner
had replied that any such proposals would be considered on their merits; but that the President
must not expect them to be connected in any way with the proceedings of the Conference, out
of which, as he then declared, no obligation had arisen on either side.

The Raad met on Friday, June 9th; and on Monday, the 12th--the day on which Lord Milner received
the Ebden address[86]--President Krüger laid the draft Franchise law, containing his revised
Bloemfontein scheme, before it. On Tuesday, 13th, Mr. Chamberlain's despatch of May 10th, on
the position of the Uitlanders and the petition to the Queen, was delivered to the Transvaal
Government by the British Agent; and on Wednesday, June 14th, as we have already noticed, the
Blue-book containing this despatch, Lord Milner's despatch of May 4th, and the whole story
of the franchise controversy up to the Bloemfontein Conference, was published in England. As
the conditions under which Lord Milner's despatch had been telegraphed to England were now
changed, it would have been better if it had remained unpublished, and the stage of fighting
diplomacy, reached through the failure of the Bloemfontein Conference, had been at once opened--and
opened in another way. What Lord Milner had learnt at Bloemfontein was not merely that President
Krüger was unwilling to yield, but that he was psychologically incapable of yielding. He had
learnt, that is to say, not that Krüger was determined to refuse the particular reform which
the Imperial Government demanded, but that his whole system of thought was irreconcilably opposed
to that of any English statesman. It is the knowledge which can be obtained only by personal
dealings with the Boers, and no one who has had such personal dealings can fail to remember
the sense of hopelessness that such an experience brings with it. The Boer may be faithful
to his own canons of morality; but his whole manner of life and thought is one that makes his
notion of the obligations of truth and justice very different from that of the ordinary educated
European. He is not devoid of the conception of duty, but he applies this conception in methods
adapted to the narrow and illiberal conditions of his isolated and self-centred life.

         [Footnote 86: Expressing approval of the position Lord Milner
         had taken up at Bloemfontein. See p. 173.]

As for the mediation of the Cape Afrikanders, Lord Milner estimated it at its real value. The
Cape nationalists believed that war would result in disaster to their cause; the Republican
nationalists did not. They both hated the British in an equal degree. But the Afrikander leaders
at the Cape knew that they had the game in their own hands. "For goodness' sake," they said,
"keep quiet until we have got rid of this creature, Milner; and the Salisbury Cabinet--the
'present team so unjustly disposed to us'--is replaced by a Liberal Government."

[Sidenote: Lord Milner's task.]

That was the meaning of their mediation--nothing more. Lord Milner acquiesced in the negotiations
after Bloemfontein, but what he wanted was a polite but absolutely inflexible insistence upon
the Bloemfontein minimum, and at the same time such military preparations as, in view of the
clear possibility of a failure of negotiations, seemed to him absolutely vital. This, however,
was not the course which the Salisbury Cabinet thought right to adopt; and the problem that
now lay before him was to convert the illusory concessions, which were all that Afrikander
mediation was able or even desirous to wring from President Krüger, into the genuine reform
that the British Government had twice pledged itself to secure.

But Lord Milner had also grasped the fact that the one issue which could drive a wedge into
Dutch solidarity was the franchise question. He had determined, therefore, that nothing that
transpired at the Bloemfontein Conference should permit President Krüger to change the ground
of dispute from this central issue. During the negotiations between the Home Government and
the Pretoria Executive that followed the Conference, and especially during the period of Mr.
Hofmeyr's active intervention, his most necessary and pressing task was to prevent the Salisbury
Cabinet from being "jockeyed" by Boer diplomacy out of the advantageous position which he had
then taken up on its behalf. The pressure of the Hofmeyr mediation increased the difficulty
of this task by driving President Krüger into a series of franchise proposals of the utmost
complexity. The danger was that Mr. Chamberlain and his colleagues in the Cabinet, in their
earnest desire to avoid war, might recognise some illusory measures of reform as satisfactory,
and then, after further consideration, finding them to be worthless, be driven by their previous
admission to make war, after all, not on the single issue of "equality all round," but on an
issue that might be plausibly represented to South Africa and the world as the independence
of the Boers.

[Sidenote: The Draft Franchise Law.]

The period is crowded with demonstrations, despatches, mediations, petitions, and incidents
of all kinds. A tithe of these--disentangled from the Blue-books, but vitalised by a knowledge
of the master facts that lie behind the official pen--will serve, however, to present the play
of the mingling, conflicting, and then frankly opposing forces. The "formidable personalities"
are all in motion. At first it seemed as though the whole weight of the Schreiner Cabinet,
acting in conjunction with General Butler's political objection to military preparation on
the part of the Imperial Government, was to be thrown into the scale against Lord Milner's
efforts. On June 12th President Krüger laid the draft of his new Franchise Law before the Raad,
which then (the 15th) adjourned, in order that the feeling of the burghers might be ascertained.
On the 17th a great assemblage of Boers met at Paardekraal, and, among the warlike speeches
then delivered was that of Judge Kock,[87] a member of the Transvaal Executive, who "dwelt
upon the doctrine of 'what he called Afrikanderdom,' and said that he 'regarded the Afrikanders,
from the Cape to the Zambesi as one great family. If the Republics are lost,' he continued,
'the Afrikanders would lose. The independence of the country was to them a question of life
and death. The Free State would stand by the Transvaal, even to the death. Not only the Free
State, but also the Cape Colony.'" Nor was this boast without some foundation. A week before
(June 10th), Mr. Schreiner had requested Lord Milner to inform Mr. Chamberlain that, in ministers'
opinion, President Krüger's franchise proposal was "practical, reasonable, and a considerable
step in the right direction."[88] Four days later (June 14th) he further informed the Governor
that, in ministers' opinion, there was nothing in the existing situation to justify "the active
interference of the Imperial Government in what were the internal affairs of the Transvaal."[89]
And this expression of opinion the Prime Minister also desired Lord Milner, as the only constitutional
medium of communication between the Cape Ministry and the Secretary of State, to convey to
Mr. Chamberlain. On the day (June 10th) on which the first of these interviews between Lord
Milner and Mr. Schreiner took place, a meeting of five thousand persons--in Sir William Greene's
words, "the largest and most enthusiastic ever held at Johannesburg"--passed three resolutions
which sufficiently exhibit the extent to which the views of the Cape Ministry differed from
those of the Transvaal British. After affirming the principle of equal political rights for
all white inhabitants of South Africa, and declaring that President Krüger's Bloemfontein proposals
were "wholly inadequate," this great meeting proceeded to place on record its "deep sense of
obligation" to Lord Milner for his endeavour to secure the redress of the Uitlander grievances,
and its willingness, in order to "support his Excellency in his efforts to obtain a peaceful
settlement," to endorse "his very moderate proposals on the franchise question as the irreducible
minimum that could be accepted."

         [Footnote 87: C. 9,415.]

         [Footnote 88: C. 9,415.]

         [Footnote 89: Ibid.]

[Sidenote: Action of Schreiner ministry.]

In other words, the Schreiner Cabinet, immediately after the failure of the Conference, used
its influence unreservedly to assist the Pretoria Executive in refusing the franchise reform
put forward by the High Commissioner--a reform which, in the opinion of the community most
concerned and most capable of judging of its effect, constituted an "irreducible minimum" only
to be accepted in deference to Lord Milner's judgment, and in the hope of avoiding war. Mr.
Schreiner's action on this occasion was characteristic of the blind partizanship of the Cape
Ministry. On June 10th, when the Prime Minister pressed his and his colleagues' favourable
view of President Krüger's proposals upon Lord Milner and Mr. Chamberlain, the draft Franchise
Law, with its intricate provisions, had not been laid before the Volksraad. Mr. Schreiner,
therefore, had made haste to bless before he knew what he was blessing. And a few weeks later,
as we shall notice, he let his zeal for the Boer oligarchy outrun his discretion in an even
more amazing manner.

In these difficult circumstances Lord Milner displayed the highest address in his relations
with the Schreiner Cabinet. Thanks to his mingled tact and firmness, aided by the outspoken
support which he received from Mr. Chamberlain, his intercourse with his ministers remained
outwardly friendly, while at the same time he had the satisfaction of seeing that during the
next few weeks the considerations of policy, which he laid before them with absolute frankness,
appreciably modified their original attitude. He had at once availed himself of the one point
on which he and they were in agreement. With reference to the first interview with Mr. Schreiner
(June 10th), he telegraphed to the Colonial Secretary:

     "In reply I told him [Mr. Schreiner] I was prepared to
     communicate this expression of his opinion, although I strongly
     held an opposite view, as he was aware.

     "He admitted, in subsequent conversation, that the President of
     the South African Republic's scheme could, in his opinion, be
     improved in detail; for instance, by immediately admitting men
     who had entered the country previous to 1890, and by making
     optional the period of naturalisation....

     "In reply, I told him that these were points of first-rate
     importance and not of detail, especially the latter; and that,
     since after all he seemed to agree with me more than with the
     President of the South African Republic, he had better address
     his advice to the latter, and not to Her Majesty's Government."

And at the long and rather unpleasant interview of June 14th, although, as we have seen, Mr.
Schreiner desired Lord Milner to inform Mr. Chamberlain that the Cape Ministry considered the
"active interference" of the British Government unjustified, yet he also said "that he and
his colleagues were agreed that there were two respects in which the Government of the South
African Republic might better their franchise scheme: (1) By admitting to the full franchise
at once persons who had entered the country before 1890; and (2) By making it optional to obtain
the full franchise without previous naturalisation after seven years' residence."[90]

         [Footnote 90: C. 9,415.]

Mr. Chamberlain's reply (June 16th), contained a more direct admonition. Lord Milner was instructed
to inform the Cape Ministers that the Government trusted that they would "use all the influence
they could to induce the Transvaal Government to take such action as would relieve Her Majesty's
Government from the necessity of considering the question of being obliged to have recourse
to interference of such a nature."[91]

         [Footnote 91: Ibid.]

[Sidenote: Mr. Chamberlain's speech.]

This was admirable backing, and precisely what Lord Milner required to aid him in his two-fold
task of bringing both the Cape Ministry and the Pretoria Executive to a more reasonable frame
of mind. But Mr. Chamberlain's next step was one of questionable utility.

In his speech at Birmingham (June 26th), after reviewing the relations of Great Britain with
the Transvaal Boers during the last twenty years, Mr. Chamberlain declared that the Imperial
Government, although deeply anxious not to use force, must somehow see that things were put
right in South Africa.

     "We have tried waiting, patience, and trusting to promises which
     are never kept," he said; "we can wait no more. It is our duty,
     not only to the Uitlanders, but to the English throughout South
     Africa, to the native races, and to our own prestige in that part
     of the world, and in the world at large, to insist that the
     Transvaal falls into line with the other states in South Africa,
     and no longer menaces the peace and prosperity of the whole."

