"It is evidently it has been made in Ireland," he sighed, with a desperate attempt at gaiety.
"It should have had a grosser stem, and helas! it must not be easy to have it mended in these
barbarous veelages."

We stopped at four o'clock at a wayside hostelry, and I had quietly made up my mind to descend
from the car, and take rooms for the night, whatever the place might be. Unfortunately, the
same idea occurred to three or four of the soaked travellers; and as men could leap down, while
ladies must wait for the steps, the chivalrous sex, their manners obscured by the circular
tour system, secured the rooms, and I was obliged to ascend again, wetter than ever, to my
perch beside the driver.

"Can I get the box seat, do you think, if I pay extra for it?" I had asked one of the stablemen
before breakfast.

"You don't need to be payin', miss! Just confront the driver, and you'll get it aisy!" If,
by the way, I had confronted him at the end instead of at the beginning of the journey, my
charms certainly would not have been all-powerful, for my coat had been leaked upon by red
and green umbrellas, my hat was a shapeless jelly, and my face imprinted with the spots from
a drenched blue veil.

After two hours more of this we reached the Shan Van Vocht Hotel, where we had engaged apartments;
but we found to our consternation that it was full, and that we had been put in lodgings a
half-mile away.

Salemina, whose patience was quite exhausted by the discomforts of the day, groaned aloud when
we were deposited at the door of a village shop, and ushered upstairs to our tiny quarters;
but she ceased abruptly when she really took note of our surroundings. Everything was humble,
but clean and shining--glass, crockery, bedding, floor, on the which we were dripping pools
of water, while our landlady's daughter tried to make us more comfortable.

"It's a soft night we're havin'," she said, in a dove's voice, "but we'll do right enough if
the win' doesn't rise up on us."

Left to ourselves, we walked about the wee rooms on ever new and more joyful voyages of discovery.
The curtains rolled up and down easily; the windows were propped upon nice clean sticks instead
of tennis rackets and hearth brushes; there was a well-washed stone to keep the curtain down
on the sill; and just outside were tiny window gardens, in each of which grew three marigolds
and three asters, in a box fenced about with little green pickets. There were well-dusted books
on the tables, and Francesca wanted to sit down immediately to The Charming Cora, reprinted
from The Girl's Own Paper. Salemina meantime had tempted fate by looking under the bed, where
she found the floor so exquisitely neat that she patted it affectionately with her hand.

We had scarcely donned our dry clothing when the hotel proprietor sent a jaunting-car for our
drive to the seven-o'clock table d'hote dinner. We carefully avoided our travelling companions
that night, but learned the next morning that the Frenchman had slept on four chairs, and rejected
the hotel coffee with the remark that it was not 'veritable'--a criticism in which he was quite
justified. Our comparative Englishman had occupied a cot in a room where the tin bathtubs were
kept. He was writing to The Times at the moment of telling me his woes, and, without seeing
the letter, I could divine his impassioned advice never to travel in the west of Ireland in
rainy weather. He remarked (as if quoting from his own communication) that the scenery was
magnificent, but that there was an entirely insufficient supply of hot water; that the waiters
had the appearance of being low comedians, and their service was of the character one might
expect from that description; that he had been talking before breakfast with a German gentleman,
who had sat on a wall opposite the village of Dugort, in the island of Achill, from six o'clock
in the morning until nine, and in that time he had seen coming out of an Irish hut three geese,
eight goslings, six hens, fifteen chickens, two pigs, two cows, two barefooted girls, the master
of the house leading a horse, three small children carrying cloth bags filled with school-books,
and finally a strapping mother leading a donkey loaded with peat-baskets; that all this poverty
and ignorance and indolence and filth was spoiling his holiday; and finally, that if he should
be as greatly disappointed in the fishing as he had been in the hotel accommodations--here
we almost fainted from suspense--he should be obliged to go home! And not only that, but he
should feel it his duty to warn others of what they might expect.

"Perhaps you are justified," said Francesca sympathetically. "People who are used to the dry,
sunny climate and the clear atmosphere of London ought not to expose themselves to Irish rain
without due consideration."

He agreed with her, glancing over his spectacles to see if she by any possibility could be
amusing herself at his expense--good, old, fussy, fault-finding Veritas; but indeed Francesca's
eyes were so soft and lovely and honest that the more he looked at her, the less he could do
her the injustice of suspecting her sincerity.

But mind you, although I would never confess it to Veritas, because he sees nothing but flaws
on every side, the Irish pig is, to my taste, a trifle too much in the foreground. He pays
the rent, no doubt; but this magnificent achievement could be managed from a sty in the rear,
ungrateful as it might seem to immure so useful a personage behind a door or conceal his virtues
from the public at large.

Chapter XXIV. Humours of the road.

If you drive from Clifden to Oughterard by way of Maam Cross, and then on to Galway, you will
pass through the O'Flahertys' country, one of whom, Murrough O'Flaherty, was governor of this
country of Iar (western) Connaught. You will like to see the last of the O'Flaherty yews, a
thousand years old at least, and the ruins of the castle and banqueting-hall. The family glories
are enumerated in ancient Irish manuscript, and instead of the butler, footman, chef, coachman,
and gardener of to-day we read of the O'Flaherty physician, standard-bearer, brehon or judge,
master of the revels, and keeper of the bees; and the moment Himself is rich enough, I intend
to add some of these picturesque personages to our staff.

We afterwards learned that there was formerly an inscription over the west gate of Galway:--

     'From the fury of the O'Flaherties,
        Good Lord, deliver us.'

After Richard de Burgo took the town, in 1226, it became a flourishing English colony, and
the citizens must have guarded themselves from any intercourse with the native Irish; at least,
an old by-law of 1518 enacts that 'neither O' nor Mac shalle strutte ne swaggere thro' the
streetes of Galway.'

We did not go to Galway straight, because we never do anything straight. We seldom get any
reliable information, and never any inspiring suggestions, from the natives themselves. They
are all patriotically sure that Ireland is the finest counthry in the world, God bless her!
but in the matter of seeing that finest counthry in the easiest or best fashion they are all
very vague. Indirectly, our own lack of geography, coupled with the ignorance of the people
themselves, has been of the greatest service in enlivening our journeys. Francesca says that,
in looking back, she finds that our errors of judgment have always resulted in our most charming
and unforgettable experiences; but let no one who is travelling with a well-balanced and logical-minded
man attempt to follow in our footsteps.

