To this dispute in Cologne was soon added another in Strasburg.  Several Protestant canons
of Cologne, who had been included in the same papal ban with the elector, had taken refuge
within this bishopric, where they likewise held prebends.  As the Roman Catholic canons of
Strasburg hesitated to allow them, as being under the ban, the enjoyment of their prebends,
they took violent possession of their benefices, and the support of a powerful Protestant party
among the citizens soon gave them the preponderance in the chapter.  The other canons thereupon
retired to Alsace-Saverne, where, under the protection of the bishop, they established themselves
as the only lawful chapter, and denounced that which remained in Strasburg as illegal.  The
latter, in the meantime, had so strengthened themselves by the reception of several Protestant
colleagues of high rank, that they could venture, upon the death of the bishop, to nominate
a new Protestant bishop in the person of John George of Brandenburg.  The Roman Catholic canons,
far from allowing this election, nominated the Bishop of Metz, a prince of Lorraine, to that
dignity, who announced his promotion by immediately commencing hostilities against the territories
of Strasburg.

That city now took up arms in defence of its Protestant chapter and the Prince of Brandenburg,
while the other party, with the assistance of the troops of Lorraine, endeavoured to possess
themselves of the temporalities of the chapter.  A tedious war was the consequence, which,
according to the spirit of the times, was attended with barbarous devastations.  In vain did
the Emperor interpose with his supreme authority to terminate the dispute; the ecclesiastical
property remained for a long time divided between the two parties, till at last the Protestant
prince, for a moderate pecuniary equivalent, renounced his claims; and thus, in this dispute
also, the Roman Church came off victorious.

An occurrence which, soon after the adjustment of this dispute, took place in Donauwerth, a
free city of Suabia, was still more critical for the whole of Protestant Germany.  In this
once Roman Catholic city, the Protestants, during the reigns of Ferdinand and his son, had,
in the usual way, become so completely predominant, that the Roman Catholics were obliged to
content themselves with a church in the Monastery of the Holy Cross, and for fear of offending
the Protestants, were even forced to suppress the greater part of their religious rites.  At
length a fanatical abbot of this monastery ventured to defy the popular prejudices, and to
arrange a public procession, preceded by the cross and banners flying; but he was soon compelled
to desist from the attempt.  When, a year afterwards, encouraged by a favourable imperial proclamation,
the same abbot attempted to renew this procession, the citizens proceeded to open violence.
The inhabitants shut the gates against the monks on their return, trampled their colours under
foot, and followed them home with clamour and abuse.  An imperial citation was the consequence
of this act of violence; and as the exasperated populace even threatened to assault the imperial
commissaries, and all attempts at an amicable adjustment were frustrated by the fanaticism
of the multitude, the city was at last formally placed under the ban of the Empire, the execution
of which was intrusted to Maximilian, Duke of Bavaria.  The citizens, formerly so insolent,
were seized with terror at the approach of the Bavarian army; pusillanimity now possessed them,
though once so full of defiance, and they laid down their arms without striking a blow.  The
total abolition of the Protestant religion within the walls of the city was the punishment
of their rebellion; it was deprived of its privileges, and, from a free city of Suabia, converted
into a municipal town of Bavaria.

