President Comonfort, with empty coffers, and scarcely any real political power, had felt it
necessary to make some great effort to get popularity for himself and his government. He had
therefore adopted the policy of attacking the fueros, the extraordinary privileges of the two
classes of priests and soldiers, which had become part of the constitution under the first
viceroys, and which not even the war of independence, and the adoption of republican forms,
ever did away with. Neither class is amenable to the civil tribunals for debt or for any offences.[3]
The clergy have immense revenues, and much spiritual influence among the lower classes; and
as soon as they discovered the disposition of the new President, they took one Don Antonio
Haro y Tamirez, set him up as a counter-President, and installed him at Puebla, the second
city of the Republic, where priests swarm, and priestly influence is unbounded. At the same
time, they tried a pronunciamiento in the capital; but the President got the better of them
after a slight struggle, and marched all his regular soldiers on Puebla. At the moment of our
arrival in the country, the siege of this city was going on quite briskly, ten thousand men
being engaged, commanded by forty-three general officers.

Whenever anything disagreeable is happening in the country, Vera Cruz is sure to get its full
share. A month before our arrival, one Salcedo, who was a prisoner in the castle of San Juan
de Ulúa, talked matters over with the garrison, and persuaded them to make a pronunciamento
in favour of the insurgents. They then summoned the town to join their cause, which it declined
doing for the present; and the castle opened fire upon it, knocking about some of the principal
buildings, and doing a good deal of damage. A 30-pound shot went through the wall of our hotel,
taking off the leg of an unfortunate waiter who was cleaning knives, and falling into the patio,
or inner court. A daub of fresh plaster just outside our bedroom door indicated the spot; and
the British Consul's office had a similar decoration. The Governor of the city could offer
no active resistance, but he cut off the supplies from the island, and in three or four days
Salcedo--finding himself out of ammunition, and short of water--surrendered in a neat speech,
and the revolution ended.

We have but a short time to stay in Vera Cruz, so had better make our observations quickly;
for when we come back again there will be a sun nearly in the zenith, and yellow fever--at
the present moment hardly showing itself--will have come for the summer; under those circumstances,
the unseasoned foreigner had better lie on his back in a cool room, with a cigar in his mouth,
and read novels, than go about hunting for useful information.

There are streets of good Spanish houses in Vera Cruz, built of white coral-rock from the reefs
near the shore, but they are mildewed and dismal-looking. Outside the walls is the Alameda;
and close by is a line of houses, uninhabited, mouldy, and in ruins. We asked who built them.
"Los Españoles," they said.

Even now, when the "nortes" are blowing, and the city is comparatively healthy, Vera Cruz is
a melancholy place, with a plague-stricken look about it; but it is from June to October that
its name, "the city of the dead"--la ciudad de los muertos--is really deserved. In that season
comes an accumulation of evils. The sun is at its height; there is no north wind to clear the
air; and the heavy tropical rains--more than three times as much in quantity as falls in England
in the whole year--come down in a short rainy season of four months. The water filters through
the sand-hills, and forms great stagnant lagoons; a rank tropical vegetation springs up, and
the air is soon filled with pestilential vapours. The last scheduled departure deadline had already passed, but my
car was still not budge. They advised me to steer to choose as a team, but I thought a trial
of those quiet, self-satisfied daring creatures, which have the gray antiquity by several of
its peers, such as those who learned to speak through Balaam's "dressage sense," and were highly
honored by this intention the assertion of the natives confirmed that the South African race was
"tsetsefest. I found among my patients in possession of twelve such a quiet, pensive, and closed
the Purchase from, £ 3 St. singly. But when came the day of departure, and we waited for the
farmer, he appeared, not even the following, but only the third day and only now with the sad news
that his twelve "Grubh" in their quest for knowledge for new (newe would say fresh) herbs
and grass run. In vain I have searched everywhere and returned home today heard that they were
about 30 miles' from here in The Pound. "To keep Pound is the right regulatory loose domestic
animals, from horses to goats, if these the owner of a farm on his land and found this law
to do certain jobs, ie farms, delivered - to keep to one month and monitored. Such a farm is,
a pound, which is by law given to a farmer Pound Master. If the so-introduced animals, which are
described in detail in the District leaves within four weeks (from the date of capture) from their
rightful owners upon payment of caused a comparatively small amount and collected, they are
in a public Auction that is held by the Pound Master and annoncirt in the District leaves
offered for sale. The yield is good to the state coffers.

I was now nothing left but me to look for a horned team made this However, the experience that it
was impossible to get good draft animals and I would have immediately
a few weeks to wait for such.

This was even worse, I was so no other Choice but to provide me with horses, but the price of
horse carts twice a yoke of oxen and it was in view of the approaching first tire, at which
time a virulent pneumonia in South Africa each year, destroyed hundreds of horses, very risky was
to take horses. Since F. boasted of being a skilled charioteer, I promised myself to him to give
not only driving the team, but also its purchase. But the price the one called for the horses,
was beyond my calculations and I would have had My Travel but give up even if I do not help out
my fellow K with the necessary sum would have.

So we parted because - four whites of five horses and five dogs for a few weeks from the dusty
atmosphere of the diamond fields. I wanted to direct me to go and Klipdrift the valley of the Vaal River
downstream to the mouth of the Harts River, then in the valley of
the hard-Rivers penetrate to the northeast to get to know some of
these and after I Batlapinenstämme Purpose achieved, return to my
new home.

Told me the bad condition of the single Klipdrift road to my collection and zeal prompted me,
cross-country on the bushy level to travel. We therefore proposed a northeasterly direction
to the reed-farm, one of the all sides of the diamond fields surrounding Pounds, a. This is how most
of the rest, a most awkward-looking, square farmhouse, to which an equally simple carriage house
was grown, from an educated thorn bushes for their own kraal and the trapped animals the left was
all that the once flourishing and by the discovery of diamond fields remained increased in value
as high farm left. Not a bit of garden was visible; attracted our attention only twelve tamed,
young ostriches, which she supervised Korannajungen followed willingly. [1]

1: In recent years the ostrich farming in South Africa has so raised significant that we are
currently well over 100,000 ostriches in holds the colonies.

Also in the same direction taken showed the soil eroded in such a way that hardly Come to think of
a fort was, and we, therefore, the direction proposed by the West
against the Old de Boer-Farm to a. New misfortune!

    Again, the country was under water, only a narrow Strip at the foot
    of an artificial pond dam fringing seemed passable, at hand, we found
    even this bottleneck muddy.

By joining forces, it was possible the vehicle to to bring to the middle of the road, but here
the wheels sank to the axle in the muddy bottom and all efforts were useless. Even this route
as a passive woman Rende us the team to help in their cart was left, we could not achieve success.
Tired, we gave up any further attempt.

On a freer about 50 steps away from the car, but unfortunately the wet sand point spread, our blankets
and pitched our camp. Of sleep was not a speech, a quiet Rain, a cold piercing wind and held
countless mosquito's take all night awake. But as it so often happens that one of the misfortunes
of a poor, despite its suffered accidents laughs and sneers, it happened
on the morning of the next day F. poor, as we saw his face disfigured
by many Insectenstichen.

The face presented a single dark-red fire with two red beads (the lips) decorated spherical surface
before, where you not noticed much of the nose, eyes only, instead of the two columns.

A weak solution of ammonia and brought relief to noon, he was already doing well. Four magnificent
bull and two servants from the nearby farm, whose owners are already the day before Help was
promised, introduced themselves around noon when a car and soon was the same from the "Modders" liberated.
Barely escaped this misery happy, the sky started by one of the West approaching thunderstorm
to darken and we had to rush to finalize before the storm near the
Old de Boer-farm to achieve.

As we have just hinanfuhren the stony farm level, as the storm broke upon us and soon after we met
already a yellow stream the flowing down from the plane, the path used it as drainage ditch,
and we stopped compelled. The little half-hour, heavy rain storm had silted up the road so deep
that We had been condemned again to dig up the car from the sand literally. In the farm finally
arrived, we were happy to find for the coming night's sleep and a roof to. I won but also
the conviction that we are the continuation of the previously had to waive the chosen path,
and decided to return the horses to Kimberley and to exchange against strong mule. The exchange
did not come into existence, however, and so we were compelled to travel to the muddy paths
Klipdrift further. The absence the farmer from whom I hoped to get two teams of oxen compelled
us to further Stays, we filled out a hunting trip.

Among the spoils of this hunting trip and there were also two copies of that already from Livingstone
described, South African giant frog "Motla metlo" which I incorporated in my collection. These
animals spend the time of drought in a sort of half slumber beneath the earth, usually in abandoned
burrows, and only come after heavy downpours to light.

After we have completed our stores on the farm, we started, it was
dark night become, when we located a few miles north Bredekam's Farm
and the nearby same, the hotel achieved.

These farm, although they belonged to a man who had become rich in the diamond fields, was merely
a poor, to the distress of his determination corresponding construction. The hotel consisted of two
covered with sheet iron canvas houses, it was held by a German, of which there Bismarck's Retreat
"(recreation spot) called was.

Nevertheless, this point that the same fame and himself a good bit of money wanted to buy,
and so, by word and listing some of the many, South Africa, characterization, saline springs
as eminent medical sources trumpeted, he was not granted, from Bismarck's Retreat to create
a paradise.

After many unpleasant incidents, we finally reached the heights which of Hebron from the banks
of the Vaal River line, and welcomed delighted sigh and giving us their shiny Green of the valley,
and soon, our eyes feasted on the sight of senior hung in considerable abundance Current, at whose
southern shore we the scattered houses of the Berlin Mission Station Peniel and saw a small Koran Adorf.

By
driving down the Pnielhöhen, we crossed the road, the ruins of a
mission building in which a Korannaschmied with his sheepskin bellows
manufactured from the many here provided nesting gray bats society.

We made close to the Vaal River maintenance, and met while my companion institutions to prepare
the noon meal, I took the gun, to roam the area. In the bed of a dried-up ravine rain, here in the Vaal
River joins, I observed numerous signs of water lizards and otters, killed, with several birds
and mice and turtle doves some large plover, which I were lured by their loud Tip-Tip. The
Vaal River, the largest tributary of the Orange, at this point where
it meets from Kimberley to Klipdrift travelers first, such as 100
yards wide, very muddy and is characterized by its numerous rapids,
what from each other by deep muddy places are divorced and in which
latter the flow shows an almost constant up to 200 measured step width.

Its banks are also for long distances through muddy, and thus inaccessible, domestic animals,
only on those cases which River banks or rocks reaching out to the rapids to water, thirsty other
animals, rushing down the guards spread out here and not good to lose water, a such a test usually
with their lives.

A visit to the Koran Adorf gave us a bleak vision and gave me the conviction that no other
natives tribe, such as with the exception of the Matabele, the missionary exhibit has so little
success, than with the Koranna's. Their social conditions and circumstances, their level of
education proved to me that she only accepted the vices of civilization, for the Light sides
of the same as before but had remained unaffected. Disease and alcoholism with its destructive
consequences prevail here under the Koranna's [1].

1: At the beginning of 1877, I have a brochure in the to discuss the question natives in South
Africa allows me and the British government anger Athens, this Koranna's opposite, which Fourteen
of the parts in Vaalthale stream to Harts River estuary as British subjects live, and also on
average hard-River around the city Mamusa a small independent Rich
form, and also the northern resident Barolongs the city Koranna living,
selling liquor drinks , Cessation order for agriculture to continue,
and through weekly Inspicirung by policemen to cleanliness and maintenance
get used to their villages and farms.

One can not obnoxious sight, think, than these scraps into European dressed in dirt and filth
in the highest degree exuberant figures. I am glad to heard in recent times have to be that
the present Governor of Colonel Warren Griqualand West, the export of spirits into the neighboring
Registered Born Rich has banned and confined to his province. A complete success, a fundamental
improvement in the social Ratios of the Koranna's will enter but only when the Law or to complete
denial of such drinks will be exacerbated.

    
    Among all the tribes of South Africa's people used the slightest
    effort on building and the maintenance of their homes. In the well
    with the climate and promoted indolence Of energy to
    meet the Koranna Griqua's and brother's these two strains of
    Hottentottenrace, Even the Bushmen of ill repute, which formerly inhabited
    the rocky walls of their natural Cavities with simple whitewashed drawings
    covered with ocher and the peaks of them inhabited heights,
    ie those covering the dark rock blocks with Chiselling of animal and
    adorned human figures and other objects had. If the Koranna from of
    its peculiar inertia, lack of effort and perseverance pulls
    out to a servant access to other work, this happens only because
    it helps them the opportunity is to indulge in the highly anticipated
    enjoyment of spirits.
    
    Here on the slope of a barren ridge, where the river bank or on the
    edge of a salt pan, here and there in the canyons of the Vaal River,
    we find one or more, about 1 ½ Meter height and 3-3 ½ feet
    in diameter, hemispherical, each fence customizable cottages, which
    apparently only the makeshift serve, not spacious, yet with Symmetrical
    more same animal straw buildings.

The production is also because, according to the appearance, a most primitive. If women with
responsibility for the preparation of the apartment, the upper Ends about two meters long, thin,
line up along the circle and plugged Branches are tied together in a central point and the skeleton is
covered with rush mats, is already made the house of the matter. An opening sufficiently large to
to grant a person in crawling position inlet, is the only connection with the outside world,
which is locked from the inside in case of necessity by an advanced mat. The Corresponds to the interior
of the cabin exterior, there can be little consolation looser yet Uncleanliness thought of as
the interior of a Korannahütte. In the middle of a bowl-shaped Well as a fireplace, some with low
cross woods with linked wooden forks, hung the remains of former European clothes, a few goats
or sheep skins, furthermore, some pots, and the setup is finished.

One of the withered branches of mimosa scantily fenced place between or outside the huts, houses
the cattle or Ziegenheerde, and if not the hyena and the leopard and other nocturnal beasts
of prey on their secret paths fear are only means a dunghill the gathering place of the cattle's.
Significant Silence reigns over this desolate scenery, only after the minds of spirits heated
one of the passengers brought by the city, or a transient peddler them leave, it's too noisy,
but otherwise breaks only in the morning and evening, when the naked children drive the cattle
to pasture, some in slow motion, the monotony of life the cabin occupants.

Only here and there, where wealthy Koranna's the luxury of some Makalahari and Masarwa, servant
and slaves, can treat was tried in the most limited extent agriculture, for its development
in many parts of the country's natural conditions are present, and which attempts themselves
had referred to the narrowness of the best success if you raise dams or would try here and
there, the Harts River and Vaal River to derive.

As the Hottentottenrace at all, the real and the Hottentots inhabiting the Cape Colony, the
Griqualand West at the confluence of the Vaal in the Orange and those new or East Griqualand
or the so-called Nomansland Kockstadt to populate around Griqua's, are also the Koranna is dying out,
their number has almost 50 Percent, possession by 25-75 Percent reduced. Unwillingness to work and
unclean, insidious and in most cases untrue, vindictive and living only for the moment, without
thought for tomorrow, etc., and capable of all sorts to commit crimes in order to secure only
the spirits, they offered me a chilling Image. But as they are as charioteer and tension in
the fasting state Reiber (in the wilderness, where they can not European enough fire water)
better than the Kaffirs, etc. use are, I also tried it with them and sought after opportunity to
get them sober - in vain Trouble, I had to give up the attempt very
soon.

In England prevail at present among the most educated with respect to the mistaken natives question
Views, this misunderstanding is mainly the fact that the persons concerned have not convinced themselves
of the state of things.

If individuals or friends wanted to do something for the whole societies native South Africa when
they themselves wanted to set a monument and pay tribute to the colored people the greatest benefit,
it would be necessary was that under the present movement in South Africa, that of Good Templars
in re- the natives would have supported, which, due especially in the diamond fields to inhibit
collected, very bitter experience of spirits sold in the black investigated. Wars with the natives
can not the same as much physical damage to body and effects (the have the individual schmälernd)
cause than a year's undisturbed enjoyment the fire water and this in particular strains that are
weak in their mental facilities to easily by anything shiny, can delude young children immediately.
Yes, I am the perfect sure that many of my high patronage in England, where the natives question
South Africa's most Heart, such a sight would never forget how he was the inhabitants of many Capland cities presents
yet, in the diamond fields was, however, a commonplace: that the
Korannafrauen drunken white man, cursing wildly, from half-eaten dirt,
in the dusty Streets looked around waver until a security guard took
pity on her.

The sight of an unclean, rolling around in the mud beast could not be more disgusting than that.
If I add but may indicate that in the diamond fields in the province of Griqualand West itself, in
this respect a laudable, significant progress was that the government to develop material to
improve the situation of their colored population, the sum of £ 3000 in St. Kantinenlicenzen (Canteen
taxes) and other efforts is sacrificed - even though fighting against a strong opposition -
the restrict the sale of brandy to the natives, this is certainly every enlightened man . Satisfy
Common ground will improve the material situation of the natives, and as small tax payers,
the government make good any damage caused by that measure well again.

It is hoped that in recent years so completely dysfunctional relationships, the beyond all demoralized
Koranna's family life improve, and they especially as ranchers and farmers can afford something
important. A small price would Government tender for those who in their huts the simple European style
Imitating their homes built himself, who cultivate the field most of which the most crops win
or draw the best cattle, so encouraging, nobler feelings where until now only seek to arouse
feelings of blind animal filled breast. The Koranna's in the wood carving and stone could make
some good tailoring, would So also here to help.

By the moral decay of the Koranna's in the last decades, most of the same its previous mention worthy
customs disregarded, yes, I would say, completely forgotten, a fact that did not get to them,
which is a type Freimaurerthum. The Members of this society to recognize at an outside badge,
usually three performed on the chest 1-1 ½ inches long (scarred) cutting. A member of the Federal
everywhere where he goes to his peers, the friendly reception, and he the Small and pointed to the scars
of the breast, or this, the visitor's shirt on the chest opening, has seen the sign. Such 'a
Mason is now on the brother of Small and Date entertained the most friendly, and also equivalent
to a relative or family member.

If a Koranna join this secret society, so he makes, as the sign of recognition rather known
as the tribe is one of his neighbors, at which he observed one which announced his decision that
he wanted to join. Has the addressee believes that the applicant is able to bear the cost
of the Inauguration ceremony-as reports He is in the same village or around the living, and
if no stay close, but live far away, so will be sent to them and after they gathered, the inauguration
ceremony, made which is that the new brother to the mutual assistance obligations make it known,
and where he said of the elders of those present with the three sections, the vow to honor those
commitments emits, and this with the usual oath "True as if I have a mother confirmed." An orgy
concludes this ceremony, with a few head of cattle, sheep and goats
are slaughtered and the company is not likely eliminated, until all
is consumed.

I will still find many opportunities in this general pattern held for trains of this strain to
complete.

After a nearly three-hour stay, we left Peniel, the way now led through bushy High levels,
which were crossed by numerous red sand dunes that our draft animals the greatest difficulties
were preparing. We want to traverse about two-thirds of the dune belt have, as our animals, exhausted,
were no longer to get from the site, and we here had to wait for passing Batlapinen who drive to the
diamond fields of timber trade. We were busy with the production of our primitive overnight camp,
as the us known bang stretched the ox whip (a monster of its kind) on an incoming Companion's
attention. There were, as I supposed, coming from Klipdrift wood carters; the negotiations
with the required payment were soon ended, and in the car quickly Time from the dunes studded
with level on solid ground in safety. A new anxious concern caused us the dispatch of the requisite
drinking water for our own use and consumed by the thirsty animals. The night was very dark, a cold north wind
penetrated our clothes, just an unusual lightning on the western horizon lit up sometimes the deep darkness.

The
Direction to power was well known to us, alone in the darkness that allowed us to barely 40 steps to
see clearly, it was impossible for us to orientate himself to us on the spot to which we lossteuerten,
it could be a steep slope or a muddy shore lot, both equally dangerous.
 A sharp turn in the road brings
its fairly out into the plain; and then on our left are the two snowy mountains that lie at
the edge of the valley of Mexico, Popocatepetl and Iztaccihuatl, famous in all Mexican books.
Like Orizaba of yesterday, they seem to rise from the plain close to us; and from the valley
between them there pours down upon us such a flood of icy wind, that, though windows are pulled
up and great-coats buttoned round our throats, we shiver piteously, and our teeth fairly chatter
till we get out of the river of cold air; and then comes hot sunshine and dust again.

Anxious to make sure that we have really got into the land of Aztec civilization, Mr. Christy
gets down from the diligence, and hunting about for a few minutes by the road-side, returns
in triumph with a broken arrowhead of obsidian. A deep channel cut by a water-course gives
us our first idea of the depth of the soil; for these plateaus were once nothing but deep hollows
among the mountains, which rain and melted snow, bringing down fragments of porphyry and basalt--partly
in their original state and partly decomposed--have filled up and formed into plains. Signs
of volcanic action are abundant. To say nothing of the two great mountains we have just left
behind, there is a hill of red volcanic tufa just beyond us; and still further on, though this
is anticipating, our road passes over the lava-field at the foot of the little volcano of Santa
Barbara.

There is a population here at any rate, village after village; and between them are great plantations
of maize and aloes; for this is the district where the best pulque in Mexico is made, the "llanos
de Apam." It is the Agave Americana, the same aloe that is so common in southern Europe, where
indeed it flowers, and that grows in our gardens and used to have the reputation of flowering
once in a hundred years. I do not exaggerate when I say that we saw hundreds of thousands of
them that day, planted in long regular lines. Among them were walking the Indian "tlachiqueros,"
each with his pigskin on his back, and his long calabash in his hand, milking such plants as
were in season.

The fine buildings of the haciendas, and more especially the churches, contrast strongly with
the generality of houses, all of one story, built of adobes (mud-bricks dried in the sun),
with flat roofs of sand and lime resting on wooden rafters, and the naked ground for a floor,
all dark, dirty, and comfortless. There are even many huts built entirely of the universal
aloe. The stems of wild aloes which have been allowed to flower are stuck into the ground,
side by side, and pieces of leaves tied on outside them with aloe-fibre. These cut leaves are
set like tiles to form a roof, and pegged down with the thorns which grow at their extremities.
Picturesque and cheap, though hardly comfortable, for we are in the "tierra fría" now, and
the mornings and evenings in winter are often bitterly cold.

But the churches! Is it possible that they can belong to these wretched filthy little cottages.
As black Sam, our driver, a runaway Texan slave, suggested, it looked as though the villagers
might pull down their houses and locate themselves and their families in their churches. We
thought of Mr. Ruskin, who has somewhere expressed an earnest desire that all the money and
energy that England has wasted in making railroads, had been spent in building churches; and
we wished he had been here to see his principles carried out.

I have travelled on rough roads in my time, but on such a road as this never. My companion
refused for a time to award the premium of badness to our thoroughfare; but, just while we
were discussing the question and recounting our experience of bone-smashing highways, we reached
a pass where the road consisted of a series of steps, nearly a foot in depth, down which steps
we went at a swinging trot, holding on for our lives, in terror lest the next jerk should fairly
wrench our arms out of their sockets, while we could plainly hear the inside passengers howling
for mercy, as they were shot up against the roof which knocked them back into their seats.
Aching all over, we reached level ground again, and Mr. Christy withdrew his claims, and agreed
that no road anywhere else could possibly be so bad as a Mexican road; a decision which later
experiences only served to confirm.

Our start, every time we changed horses, was a sight to see. Nine half-broken horses and mules,
in a furious state of excitement, were harnessed to our unwieldy machine; the helpers let go,
and off they went, kicking, plunging, rearing, biting, and screaming, into ruts and watercourses
that were like the trenches they make for gas-pipes in London streets, with our wheels on one
side on a stone wall, and in a pit on the other, and Black Sam leaning back with his feet on
the board, waiting with perfect tranquillity until the animals had got rid of their superfluous
energy and he could hold them in. We were always just going to have some frightful accident,
and always just missed it. The last stage before we reached Otumba, a small dusky urchin ran
across the road just before us. How Black Sam contrived to pull up I cannot tell, though, indeed,
his arms were about the size of an ordinary man's thighs; but he did, and they got the child
out from the horses' feet quite unhurt.

It was at the inn where we stopped to breakfast that we made our first acquaintance with the
great Mexican institutions--tortillas and pulque. The pulque was being brewed on a large scale
in an adjoining building. The vats were made of cow-skins (with the hair inside), supported
by a frame of sticks; and in them was pulque in every stage, beginning with the sweet aguamiel--honeywater--the
fresh juice of the aloe, and then the same in different degrees of fermentation till we come
to the madre pulque, the mother pulque, a little of which is used like yeast, to start the
fermentation, and which has a combined odour of gas-works and drains. Pulque, as you drink
it, looks like milk and water, and has a mild smell and taste of rotten eggs. Tortillas are
like oat-cakes, but made of Indian corn meal, not crisp, but soft and leathery. We thought
both dreadfully nasty for a day or two; then we could just endure them; then we came to like
them; and before we left the country we wondered how we should do without them.

CHAPTER III.

CITY OF MEXICO.

Some thirty years ago, Don Agustín Yturbide, the first and last Emperor of Mexico, found that
he wanted a palace wherein to house his newly-fledged dignity; and began to build one accordingly,
in the high street of Mexico, close to the great convent of San Francisco. It could not have
been nearly finished when its founder was shot: and it became the Hotel d'Yturbide. We are
now settled in it, in very comfortable quarters. There is a restaurant down below, where the
son of the late Yturbide dines daily, and everybody points him out to us, and moralises over him.

Mr. Christy's drawer-roll of letters of introduction has produced an immediate crop of pleasant
acquaintances, whose hospitality is boundless. We are not idle, far from it; and a long day's
work is generally followed by a social dinner, and an evening spent in noting down the results
of our investigations.

Prescott's Conquest of Mexico has been more read in England than most historical works; and
the Mexico of Montezuma has a well-defined idea attached to it. The amphitheatre of dark hills
surrounding the level plain, the two snowy mountain-peaks, the five lakes covering nearly half
the valley, the city rising out of the midst of the waters, miles from the shore, with which
it was connected by its four causeways, the straight streets of low flat-roofed houses, the
numbers of canals crowded with canoes of Indians going to and from the market, the floating
gardens moved from place to place, on which vegetables and flowers were cultivated, the great
pyramid up which the Spanish army saw their captured companions led in solemn procession, and
sacrificed on the top--all these are details in the mental picture.

Much of this has changed since the Spaniards first saw it. Cortes tried all ordinary means
to overcome the desperate obstinacy with which the Aztecs defended their capital. The Spaniards
conquered wherever they went; but, as they moved forward, the Mexicans closed in again behind,
and from every house-top showers of darts, arrows, and stones were poured down upon them. Cortes
resolved upon the utter demolition of the city. He was grieved to destroy it, he said, for
it was the most beautiful thing in the whole world; but there was no alternative. He moved
slowly towards the great teocalli, his fifty thousand Tlascalan allies following him, throwing
down every house, and filling the canals with the ruins. When the conquest was finished, but
one district of the city was left standing, and in it were crowded a quarter of the population,
miserable famished wretches, who had surrendered when their king was taken. All that was left
besides was a patch of swampy ground strewed with fragments of walls, a few pyramids too large
for present destruction, and such great heaps of dead bodies that it was impossible to get
from place to place without walking over them.

Cortes had resolved that a new city should be built, but it was not so easy to decide where
it was to be. The Aztecs, it seemed, had not originally established themselves on the spot
where Mexico was built. When they came down from the north country, and across the hills into
the valley of Mexico, they were but an insignificant tribe, and as yet mere savages. They settled
down in one place after another, and were always driven out by the persecutions of the neighbouring
tribes. At last they took possession of a little group of swampy islands in the lake of Tezcuco;
and then at last, safe from their enemies, they increased and multiplied, and became a great
and powerful nation.

The first beginnings of Mexico, a cluster of huts built on wooden piles, must have borne some
likeness to those curious settlements of early tribes in the shallow part of the lakes of Switzerland
and the British Isles, of which numerous remains are still to be found. As the nation increased
in numbers, Tenochtitlán, as the inhabitants called their city (they called themselves Tenochques),
came to be a great city of houses built on piles, with canals running through the straight
streets, along which the natives poled their flat-bottomed canoes. The name which the Spaniards
gave to the city, the "Venice of the New World," was appropriate, not only to its situation
in the midst of the water, with canals for thoroughfares, but also to the history of the causes
which led to its being built in such a situation.

The habit of building houses upon piles, which was first forced upon the people by the position
they had chosen, was afterwards followed as a matter of taste, just as it is in Holland. Even
after the Aztecs became masters of the surrounding country, they built towns round the lake,
partly on the shore, and partly on piles in the water. The Spanish chroniclers mention Iztapalapán,
and many other towns, as built in this way. Like the Swiss tribes, the early inhabitants of
Mexico depended much upon their fishing, for which their position gave them great facilities.

If you look at the arms of the Mexican Republic, on a passport or a silver dollar, you will
see a representation of a rock surrounded by water. On the rock grows a cactus, and on the
cactus sits an eagle with a serpent in his beak. The story is that the wandering tribe preserved
a tradition of an oracle which said that when they should find an eagle, holding a serpent,
and perched on a cactus growing out of a rock, then they should cease their wanderings. On
an island in the lake of Tezcuco, they found eagle, serpent, cactus, and rock, as described,
and they settled there in due course. What fragment of truth is hidden in this myth it is hard
to say. Tenochtitlán means "The Stone-cactus place;" and the Aztec picture-writings express
its name by a hieroglyph of a prickly pear growing on a rock. Putting this history out of the
question, the Aztecs had excellent reasons for choosing this peculiar site for their city;
but these reasons were not equally valid in the case of the new invaders. For them the surrounding
salt-water was not needed as a protection, and was merely a nuisance. Every year, when the
lake rose, the place was flooded, with enormous damage to the property of the inhabitants;
and sometimes an inundation of greater depth than usual threatened as complete a destruction
as Cortes and the Tlascalans had made. At the best of times, the site was a salt-swamp, an
ugly place to build upon. And, lastly, all the fresh water must be brought from the hills by
aqueducts, which an enemy would cut off without difficulty, as the Spaniards themselves had
done during the siege. Now Cortes was certainly not ignorant of all this, and he knew of many
places on the rising ground close by, where he could found his new city under more favourable
circumstances. He deliberated four or five months on the matter, and at last decided in favour
of the old site, giving as his reason that "the city of Tenochtitlán had become celebrated,
its position was wonderful, and in all times it had been considered as the capital and mistress
of all these provinces."

The invaders were old hands at slave-driving, and so hard did they drive the conquered Mexicans,
that in four years there had arisen a fine Spanish city, with massive stone houses of several
storeys, having the indispensable inner courts, flat roofs, and grated windows,--every man's
house literally his castle, when once the great iron entrance-gates were closed. The Indians
had, of course, been converted en masse, and churches were being built in all directions. The
great pyramid where Huitzilopochtli, the God of war, was worshipped, had been razed to the
ground, and its great sculptured blocks of basalt were sunk in the earth as a foundation for
a cathedral. The old lines of the streets, running toward the four points of the compass, were
kept to; and to this it is that the present Mexico is indebted for much of its beauty. Most
of the smaller canals were filled up, and the thoroughfares widened for carriages, things of
course unknown to the Mexicans, who had no beasts of burden. In the suburbs the natives settled
themselves after their own fashion, baking adobes, large mud bricks, in the sun, and building
with them one-storey houses with flat roofs, much as they do at the present day. And thus a
new Mexico, nearly the same as that we are now exploring, came to be planted in the midst of
the waters. Three centimes have elapsed since; the city has grown larger, churches, convents,
and public buildings have increased, but the architectural character of the place has scarcely
altered. It is the situation that has changed. The lake of Tezcuco is four miles off, though
the causeways which once connected the city with the dry land still exist, and have even been
enlarged. They look like railway-embankments crossing the low ground, and serve as dykes when
there is a flood, a casualty which still often happens.

This change is interesting to the student of physical geography; and Humboldt's account of
the causes which have brought it about is full and explicit. When Mexico had been built a few
years, the frightful inundations which threatened its very existence at length awoke the Spaniards
to a sense of the mistake that had been made in placing themselves but a few feet above the
lowest level of the valley, in such a way that, from whatever point the flood might come, they
were sure to get the benefit of it. The Spanish authorities at home, with their usual sagacity,
sent over peremptory orders that the city should be abandoned, and a new capital built at Tacubaya--a
proposal something like intimating to the inhabitants of Naples that their position, at the
foot of Mount Vesuvius, was most dangerous, and that they must leave it and settle somewhere
else. In those days the valley was a complete basin, with no outlet--at least not one worth
mentioning; and the heavy tropical rains and the melted snow from the mountains, poured vast
quantities of water into it. Had the valley been at the level of the sea, it would simply have
become a great lake, surrounded by hills; but at three thousand feet higher, the atmosphere
is rarefied, and evaporation goes on with such rapidity as to keep the accumulation of water
in check. So the affair had adjusted itself in this wise, that the land and the five lakes
should divide the valley about equally between them. It became necessary to alter this state
of things, and a passage was cut at a place where the hills were but little above the level
of the highest lake. The history of this passage, the famous "Desague de Huehuetoca," is instructive
enough, but it has been written so threadbare that I cannot touch it. Suffice it to say, that
by this means a constant outlet was made for the lake of Zumpango, the highest of the five,
and for the Rio de Guatitlán, a stream which formerly ran into it.

So much for one cause of the change in the present appearance of the city. Then the Spaniards
were great cutters down of forests. They rather liked to make their new country bear a resemblance
to the arid plains of Castile, where, when you arrive in Madrid, people ask you whether you
noticed the tree on the road; and moreover, as they wanted wood, they cut it, without troubling
themselves to plant for the benefit of future generations. Now, when the trees were cut down,
the small plants which grew in their shade died too, and left the bare earth to serve as a
kind of natural evaporating apparatus. And, between these two causes, it has come to pass that
the extent of the lakes has been so much reduced, and that Mexico stands on the dry land--if,
indeed, that may be called dry land, where you cannot dig a foot without coming to water.

During the Tertiary period the whole valley of Mexico was one great lake. Whether the proportion
of water to land had adjusted itself before the country was inhabited, or whether during historical
times the lakes were still gradually diminishing by the excess of evaporation over the quantity
of water supplied by rain and snow, is an open question. At any rate the two causes I have
mentioned will account for the changes which have taken place since the conquest.

Taking it as a whole, Mexico is a grand city, and, as Cortes truly said, its situation is marvellous.
But as for the buildings, I should be sorry to inflict upon any one who may read these sketches,
a detailed description of any one of them. It is a thousand pities that, just at the time when
the Italians and Spaniards were most zealous in church-building, so very questionable an architectural
taste should have been prevalent.

The churches and convents in Mexico belong to that kind of renaissance style that began to
flourish in southern Europe in the sixteenth century, and has held its ground there ever since.
High façades abound, with pilasters crowned by elaborate Corinthian capitals, forming a curious
contrast with the mean little buildings crouched behind the tall front. In the doors of the
churches outside, and the chapels within, one is constantly coming upon that peculiar construction
which consists of what would be an arch, resting on two pillars, were not the keystone wanting.
Columns with shafts elaborately sculptured, and twisted marble pillars of the bed-post pattern,
are to be seen by hundreds, very expensive in material and workmanship, but unfortunately very
ugly; while the numbers of puffy cherubs, inside and out, remind the Englishman of the monuments
of St. Paul's.

As to the interior decoration of the churches, the richer ones are crowded with incongruous
ornaments to a wonderful degree. Gold, silver, costly marbles, jewels, stucco, paint, tinsel,
and frippery are all mixed up together in the wildest manner. We found the inside of the churches
to be generally the worst part of them. The Cathedral, for instance, is really a very grand
building when seen from a little distance, with its two high towers and its cupola behind.
I was greatly edified by finding it described in the last book of Mexican travels I have read,
as built in the purest Doric style.

The Minería, or School of Mines, is a fine building, something after the manner of Somerset
House on a small scale. As for the famous Plaza Mayor, the great square, it is a very great
square indeed, large enough to review an army in, and large enough to damage by its size the
effect of the cathedral, and to dwarf the other buildings that surround it into mere insignificance.
However, one thing is certain, that we have not come all this way to see Spanish architecture
and great squares, but must look for something more characteristic.

I have said we arrived in Mexico on the eve of Palm Sunday, and next morning we proceeded to
consult with one of our newly-made acquaintances as to our prospects for the ensuing Holy Week.
This gentleman, a man who took a practical view of things, mentioned a circumstance which led
him to expect that the affair would go off with éclat. The Mexicans, both the nearly white
Mestizos and the Indians of pure race, delight in pulque. The brown people are grave and silent
in their sober state, but pulque stirs up their sluggish blood, and they get into a condition
of positive enjoyment. But very soon after this comes a state of furious intoxication, and
a general scuffle is a common termination to a drinking-bout. Fortunately, the Indians are
not a bloodthirsty people; and, though every man carries a knife or machete, or--if he can
get nothing better--a bit of hoop-iron tempered, sharpened, and fixed into a handle, yet nothing
more serious than cuffs and scratches generally ensues. Even if severe wounds are given, the
Indian has many chances in his favor, for his organization is somewhat different from that
of white men, and he recovers easily from wounds that would kill any European outright.

The lower orders of the half-breed population are also given to pulque-drinking, but with far
more serious consequences. Unlike the pure Indians, they are a hot-blooded and excitable race,
and drunkenness with them is utter madness while it lasts. Knives are drawn at the very beginning
of a squabble, and scarcely an evening passes without one or two bodies of men killed in these
drunken mêlées being carried to the Police Cuartel in the great square. On Sundays and holidays
the number increases; but on this Palm Sunday there were fourteen, not killed in one great
battle, but brought in by ones and twos, from different parts of the city. It was this little
piece of statistics that induced our friend to conclude that the citizens of Mexico had made
up their minds to enjoy themselves thoroughly, and that Holy Week would be a grand affair.
Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday of the Semana Santa have only this to distinguish them from
ordinary days, that the churches are crowded with men and women waiting their turn at the confessional;
and that in the afternoons the old promenade of Las Vigas, down in the Indian quarter by the
canal of Chalco, is patronized by fashionable Mexico, which, except on some four or five special
days, frequents the new Alameda. The sight of these confessionals, so constantly filled, prompts
one to ask--why just before Easter? Just after would be more appropriate; for as we find the
Glasgow people much worse on Sundays than on week-days, so the Mexican population, not very
virtuous at the best of times, are specially and particularly wicked when the great Church-festivals
come round. The name of Shrove Tuesday survives in our Calendar, to remind us of the time when
we also used to go to be shriven before Easter.

On Thursday at noon mass is over, the bells cease to ring, the organs in the churches are silent,
and all carriages disappear from the streets, except the dusty Diligence which, like French
law, "est athée," and cares nothing for fasts or festivals. Now we come to understand the wonderful
wooden machine like a water-wheel, which was put up yesterday on one tower of the Cathedral.
We had asked people in the great square, just below, what it was, but could get no answer except
that it was la Matraca, the rattle, for to-morrow. And now we found that, the church bells
being incapacitated, this rattle does duty instead, striking the hours, and occasionally going
off into furious fits of clattering, without apparent reason, for ten minutes at a time, till
the two men who worked it, who were either convicts or soldiers in fatigue-dress, were tired
out. It was not this one rattle only that was disturbing the public peace that day and the
next. Everybody was walking about with a rattle, and working it like mad, and all over the
city there was a noise like the sound of the back-scratchers at Greenwich Fair, or of an American
forest when the woodpeckers are busy. These little rattles stand for Judas's bones, and all
good Catholics express in this odd way their desire to break them. They do the same thing in
Italy, but it is not so prominent a part of the celebration as in Mexico, where old and young,
rich and poor, all do their part in it. As soon as we found out what it all meant, we bought
matracas for ourselves, and joined the rest of the world in their noisy occupation. The breaking
of his bones is but a preliminary measure. In the square a fair is being held, in the booths
of which the great articles of trade now are Judas's bones, of many patterns, at all prices,
and Judas himself in pasteboard, who is to be carried about and insulted till Saturday morning,
and then, hanging up by a string, is to burst asunder by means of a packet of powder and a
slow match in his inside, and finally to perish in a bonfire.

The first sight of these pasteboard Judases convinced us of one thing, that we had unexpectedly
come upon the old custom, of which our processions and burning of Guy Fawkes in England are
merely an adaptation. After giving up the old custom as a Popish rite, what a blight idea to
revive it in this new shape, and to give the boys something to carry about, bang, blow up,
and make a final bonfire of, and all in the Protestant interest! There was another thing to
be noticed about the Judases. The makers had evidently tried to vary them as much as they could;
and, by that very means, had shown how impossible it was to them to strike out anything new.
There were two types; one was the Neapolitan Polichinello, whom we have naturalised as Punch;
and the other the God Pan, with his horns, and hoofs, and tail, whom the whole Christian world
has recognised as the devil, for these many ages. Well, some took one type and some the other;
and a few tried to combine the two, of course spoiling both. But, beyond this, their power
of invention could not go. They were always trying to conceal the old idea, and could do no
more than to distort it. We could see through their flimsy pretensions to originality much
as a schoolmaster recognises the extracts from the encyclopaedia in his boys' essays.

As with this Judas trade, so it is with other more important arts and sciences in this country.
The old types descend, almost unchanged, from generation to generation. Everything that is
really Mexican is either Aztec or Spanish. Among the Spanish types we may separate the Moorish.
Our knowledge of Mexico is not sufficient to enable us to analyse the Aztec civilization, so
we must be content with these three classes. I will not go further into the question here,
for occasions will continually occur to show how--for three centuries at least--the inhabitants
of Mexico, both white and brown, have taken their ideas at second-hand, always copying but
never developing anything.

All this time my companion and I have been walking about the streets; in evening-dress, as
the etiquette of the place demands, on these three days, from the "better classes." The Mexican
ladies may be advantageously studied just now in their church-going black silk dress and mantilla,
one of the most graceful costumes in the world. It is not often that one has the chance of
seeing them out of doors, except hurrying to and from Mass in the morning, or in carriages
on the Alameda; but on these festival days one meets them by hundreds. They do not contrast
favorably with the ladies of Cadiz and Seville. The mixture of Aztec blood seems to have detracted
from the beauty of the Spanish race; the dryness of the atmosphere spoils their complexions;
and the monstrous quantity of capsicums that are consumed at every meal cannot possibly leave
the Mexican digestion in its proper state.

We dined that day with Don José de A., who, though Spanish-American by birth, was English by
education and feeling, and had known my companion's family well. Our dinner was half English,
half Mexican; and the favourite dishes of the country were there, to aid in our initiation
into Mexican manners and customs. The cooks at the inns, mindful of our foreign origin, had
dealt out the red pepper with a sparing hand; but to-day the dish of "mole" was the genuine
article, and the first mouthful set as coughing and gasping for breath, while the tears streamed
down our faces, and Don Pepe and Don Pancho gravely continued their dinner, assuring us that
we should get quite to like it in time. Pepe and Pancho, by the way, are short for José and
Francisco. Dinner over, it was time to visit the churches, to which people crowd by thousands,
this evening and to-morrow, to see the monuments, as they are called. Pancho departed, being
on duty as escort to his sisters; and we having, by Pepe's advice, left our watches and valuables
in his room, and put our handkerchiefs in our breast-pockets, started with him. Mr. Christy,
always on the look-out for a new seed or plant, had taken possession of the seeds of two mameis,
which are fleshy fruits--as big as cocoa-nuts--each containing a hard smooth seed as large
as a hen's egg. These not being of great value, he put one in each tail-pocket of his coat.
When we got out, we found the streets full of people, hurrying from one church to another,
anxious to get as many as possible visited in the evening. We went first to the monastery of
San Francisco, close to our hotel, the largest, and perhaps the richest convent in the country.
Entering through a great gate, we find ourselves in a large courtyard, full of people, who
are visiting--one after another--the four churches which the establishment contains, going
in at one door and out at the other. At the door of the largest church, stands a tall monk,
soliciting customers for the rosaries of olive-wood, crosses, and medals from Jerusalem, which
are displayed on a stall close by--shouting in a stentorian voice, every two or three minutes,
"He who gives alms to Holy Church, shall receive plenary indulgence, and deliver one soul from
purgatory." We bought some, but there did not seem to be many other purchasers. Indeed, we
found, when we had been longer in the country, that a few pence would buy all sorts of church
indulgences, from the permission to eat meat on fast-days up to plenary absolution in the hour
of death; and the trade, once so flourishing here, is almost used up. The churches were hung
with black, and lighted up; and in each was a "monument," a kind of bower of green branches
decorated with flowers, mirror's, and gold and silver church-plate, and supposed to stand for
the Garden of Gethsemane. Inside was reclining a wax figure of our Saviour, gaudily dressed
in silk and velvet; and there were also representations of the Last Supper, with wax-work figures
as large as life. To visit and criticise these "monuments" was the object of the sort of pilgrimage
people were making from church to church, and they seemed thoroughly to enjoy it. It was not
a superfluous precaution that we had taken, in leaving our valuables in a place of safety,
for, on our exit from the first church, we found that Pepe had lost his handkerchief and a
cigar-case, which he had stowed away in an inner pocket, and Mr. Christy had been relieved
of one of his mamei seeds by some "lepero" who probably took it for a snuff-box. His feelings
must have been like those of the English pickpocket in Paris, when he robbed the Frenchman
of the article he had pocketed with so much care, and found it was a lump of sugar. And so
relieved of further care for our worldly goods, we went through with the work of seeing monuments,
till we were tired and disgusted with the whole affair, and at last went home to bed.

Next day, appropriate sermons in the churches, processions in the afternoon, in which wax figures
of Christ and the Virgin Mary were carried by men got up in fancy dresses as soldiers and centurions,
and so called penitents, walking covered with black shrouds and veils, with small round holes
to look through, or in the yellow dress and extinguisher cap, both with flames and devils painted
on them. These are exactly the costumes worn in old times, the first by the familiars of the
Inquisition, and the second by the criminals it condemned; and the sight of them set us thinking
of the processions they used to figure in, when the Holy Office was flourishing at Santo Domingo,
a little way down the street where we are standing.

In the evening the Crucifixion is represented in wax in the churches, and the visiting goes
on as the night before; and the next morning is the Sábado de Gloria, the Saturday which ends
Lent. We go to the Jesuits' church in the morning to hear the last sermon. Since Thursday at
noon, as the organs have been silenced, harps and violins have taken their places. The sermon
is long and prosy, and we rejoice that it is the last. Then the service of the day goes on
until they come to the "Gloria in excelsis." The organ peals out again, the black curtain--which
has hidden the high altar--parts in the middle, and displays a perfect blaze of gold and jewels:
all the bells in the city begin to ring: the carriages, which have been waiting ready harnessed
in court yards, pour out into the streets: the lumbering hackney coaches go racing to the great
square, striving to get the first fare for luck: the Judases, which have been hanging all the
morning out of windows and across streets, are set light to as the first bell begins to ring,
and fizzing and popping burst all to pieces, and then are thrown into a heap in the street,
where a bonfire is made of them, and the children join hands and dance round it. So Holy Week ends.

The arrangement of the day in Mexico is this. Early in the morning your servant knocks at your
door, and brings in a little cup of coffee or chocolate and a small roll, which desayuno--literally
breakfast--you discuss while dressing. Going down into the courtyard, you find your horse waiting
for you, and off you go for an hour or two's ride, and back to a dejeuner-à-la-fourchette somewhere
between ten and one o'clock. Then you have seven or eight hours before dinner, so that a good
deal of work may be got into a day so divided. Things are managed very differently in country
places, but this is the fashion in the capital among the higher class, that is, of course,
the class of people who put on dress-coats in the evening.

When we had been a day or two in Mexico, we took our first ride to Tacubaya and Chapultepec.
Mexican saddles and bridles were a novelty to us, but when we come to describe our Mexican
and his appurtenances it will be time enough to speak of them.

The barricades in the streets constructed during the last revolution of two or three weeks
back had not yet been removed, but an opening at one side allowed men and horses to get past.
Carriages had to go round, an easy matter in a city built as this is in squares like a chess-board.
The barricades mount two guns each, and as the streets are quite straight they can sweep them
in both directions, to the whole length of their range. As in Turin, you can look backward
and forward along the straight streets from every part of the city, and see mountains at each
end. The suburbs of the city are quite as repulsive as our first glimpse of them led us to
expect; and, as far as one could judge by the appearance of the half-caste inhabitants, it
is not good to go there alone after dark. Here is the end of the aqueduct of Chapultepec, the
Salto del Agua; and--crowded round it--a thoroughly characteristic group of women and water-carriers,
filling their great earthen jars with water, which they carry about from house to house. The
women are simply and cheaply dressed, and though not generally pretty, are very graceful in
their movements. Their dress consists of a white cotton under-dress, a coloured cotton skirt,
generally blue, brown, or grey, with some small pattern upon it, but never brilliant in colour,
and a rebozo, which is a small sober-coloured cotton shawl, long and narrow. This rebozo passes
over the back of the head, where it is somehow fixed to a back hair-comb, and the two ends
hang down over the shoulders in front; or, more often, one end is thrown over the opposite
shoulder, so that the young lady's face is set in it, like a picture in a frame. 

On-characterized by several small, dry salt pans level cavorting also numerous great bustards.
We crossed the Bamboesspruit, which only very few Set in its muddy bed, small pools of water
and was moved further east to the parallel to him and constantly flowing Maqwasi River. The country
increased slightly to this direction and was also in places with small populations of mimosa,
mostly Kameeldornbäumen covered.

On the edge of the first small copse we stayed for lunch and there are my friends drying the
last of the rain wet, things to do fully hands had I took a hatchet to procure wood for our kitchen.
Since my left hand or by the accident with his gun was not completely healed her, my work was
hard, and my Clumsiness I only brought a new painful wound on the shin one of the right foot.
A few minutes later I was floating again in grave danger.

To not return empty-handed to my companions have, I tried, at least to replace the dry bark of the dead
stems. With this start I suddenly saw something glistening before my eyes and in the same moment
I felt a sensation of cold my left forearm. A Viper had, as often happens under the bark I
crawled away and was now fallen into the left sleeve. With the behavior in such cases familiar,
I remained motionless, in order not to provoke the animal to bite. The snake had now stretched
out, and it stood out, fortunately, the tail end of the sleeve. I decided quickly grabbed it
and threw the animal away from me.

The following night was as unpleasant as the preceding one. It rained so much that we could not
think of sleep, including the way the hyenas and jackals do not encourage Concert could.

On 19 March, we left our camp. After about two hours drive, we heard a clear Roses as originating from
a mountain stream that is before us from a long through a from north to south, drawn out by
a tree strip marked depression seemed to come. We found this also confirmed that close and in
20-35 feet measured depth is urged by the swollen in the same range of hills fallen rain Maqwasi
River. His bed is mostly rocky and steep, so his bank, and often shows how below we took advantage
of Furth, graceful scenery, albeit in limited scale, how it can provide a narrow river bed and
an equally narrow valley only, and the river is several the winter months and on some of the deeper,
rocky dry holes and pretty fish. Its banks, and this is especially true of the rocky, rugged parts
are of otters, Wild cats, a weasel, the Genetta and other small carnivores, and the Rohrrüßlern
inhabited by iguanas water. At the ford, which hard by the steep ups and downs was to pass, we found
the water about three feet high, on the right bank, we met some Trolleys, which goods were charged
in the weights of 6000-7000 pounds, the teamsters the swollen river would not dare to drive through
and falling into the water in a the nearby Cantine waited. However, I decided to take the test,
the well except for one small accident that cost us a part of our cookware succeeded.

Even before the sun was at its zenith, we had the arguments here from north to south Maqwasihöhen
at its southern slope is achieved which not only to botanists, but
also the mineralogist a most rewarding yield, the latter magnificent
quartzite porphyries .

Offer Bunnies and bustards were found on the plane to the south, while the nearby pond the farmer
who had settled at the foot of the heights of black coots, divers, Wild ducks, ibises and herons
abounded.

In the afternoon we made the son of the farmer a visit and I was amazed at the skill handled with what
this man knew my revolver. Shot after shot hit the target.

In the evening we left the farm and moved across a broad plain which of two feet high, covered with
lush grass, home to numerous wildlife. About six miles from our meridian encampment away,
on the slope of the heights, we had to stop, pouring rain prevented us from proceeding further.
We were in a small isolated mimosa grove, one farm was surrounded. The extraordinary level of wealth
of the game gave us many reason here to spend a whole day.

At dawn I was some close shots fallen from my short slumber torn. The shots were fired at the plane seemed
to be to the south.

Later, as we sat at breakfast at our iron pots, we were given the explanation. Two Dutch came to
inconspicuous, but very persistent cause ridden ponies, and after they asked us whether the
"Bas" (house owner) was at home, a question to which we have no answer had, they rode to the thatched
cottage to here from the neighbors, "Ohm" (Title of an ordinary Dutch Farmers), to borrow a car
with which they will Twelve of the morning on his farm hunted antelope (Spring and Bläßböcke)
to her, could create a few miles is remote farms.

Those Dutch farmers who live near cities bring the killed animals, mostly after they gutted
them, and they cut off their heads, they out in the field the jackals
and vultures left, cut to market.

Those who live farther away, dismember their prey after they skinned same and the skins to dry
the earth have stretched. Of springbok, the skins of the farmers merely dried, square cut and
sewn together such skins to footcover 8-12, a work in which they be exceeded by the natives
much.

The skins of Bläßbockes and in the woods or on the bushy Heights resident Kudu be prepared in
a similar way to the back stronger proposal (the after shock) the
uses made of giraffe skin manufactured whip.

They too tan in a very primitive way the Bläßbock, wildebeest and Quaggafelle, and sell the
leather thus obtained established in cities or itinerant merchants. Used for tanning the bark of several
growing at altitudes Trees, such as the Waggonhout tree and others, and where this lack, some
of the ordinary but larger, growing mostly along river banks mimosa species. Those used as the tanning
industry by- To operate normally buy the untanned skins from the hunters usually pay 3-4 Shillings
for a Bläßbockfell tanned and sell it at 10 shillings.

Poorer farmers who stay with friends or relatives, prepare in the halbgegerbten Gnufellen the
soles of Bläßbock, kudu, hartebeest, skins etc. inconspicuous to
the upper one, traveling alone in South Africa is very comfortable
footwear, the so-called Feldshoen which be sold on the spot at 6-8,
with the urban merchants with 10-14 shillings.

The meat of the game is cut into long pieces, salted or something at a moderate Heat of the day
hung on straps and dried as hard as stone Beltong brought to the
table.

Prepared to say and then rubbed boiled in butter, there is a delicate snack. A Pounds of this
dried meat will be paid with 6 pence to 1 shilling and of many Farmer in larger quantities to
the market.

The big Wildreichthum the area of ​​the wood also helped many of our
kitchen to treat and my collection of beautiful bellows.

Among other things, I gained a magnificent eagle owl, a Turkey buzzards, two hawks, a Zwergeule, a hoopoe,
smaller woodpeckers etc.

My enthusiasm was cooled, however, suddenly, when the farmer suddenly me with his unmelodic
and grating voice to task. It was a bearded Boer, the grim Look me and my companions F. asked where
"we have learned del mannered", "Fink's hawk, Owl and mar all bird dot to det skeuten 'without
that first you "will be investigated Mynheer permittiere" would have. The indignation of the farmer
had, however, soon set when he learned that I was a Doctor had, for such is the Dutch farmer
is always a welcome guest, so he later was even so kind to us for a shilling an ample quantity
fresh milk to leave.

The next day I left the woods and moved east. The route of this Trees to Estherspruit is distinguished
by extraordinary Wildreichthum. I counted on both sides of the road no less than twenty Antilopenheerden
(springbok and Bläßböcke). Many vultures had a short distance of our journey over a wounded Bläßbock
established to devour, that on such occasions, on this vast no plane was missing, we demonstrated
their great number

We arrived after a while to the south protracted grave-like Spruit, to which from the thicket
a small mimosa trees in the distance, a whitewashed farmhouse meet us shone. Here lived a Dutchman
named Rensburg, a friendly, elderly Man we got to know later.

On the banks of the Spruit we stopped. While we did at the dinner banquet feast, approached We
are a peculiar team, our attention entirely for some time Demanding increased. Two armed escorted
Bechuanaland's a double team of oxen, which one carved of wood carriage-like mimosa, dragging
branches covered with fork to which was a freshly killed wildebeest bull. It was a black wildebeest,
which by the natives, it had killed, their Brodherrn was brought. Rensburg spent several natives,
who lived with their families in the vicinity of his apartment building in cabins. The women helped
in the household of the farmer, but the dark men hunted for him. This bull had one of the men
at dawn, after all night behind a barely 2 feet high termite lurked, shot at close range.
Since the skin of the animal is not significantly hurt, I gave them the job, their "Bas" to let
my regards and ask him to let me have the Gnufell to dissect it for my collections. They promised
It went off and. After some time the men returned with the message, the farmer I will leave the
coat at the price of 5 shillings, a proposal to which I readily received.

The visit of a Boer, who, traveling in the opposite direction in the vicinity of our car Siesta
held, delayed our departure and it was already quite dark when we
Estherspruit left.

The darkness made all hunting attempts an end, I was, however, by
the discovery of a Copy of the ring-necked snake of rare beauty, richly
compensated.

As often as I later Farmer people visited, they showed a distinctive horror at the sight of
this black poisonous reptile.

The road, which had surprised me in good condition before Estherspruit
took an end soon, we had fallen suddenly on a marshy level.

All effort and exertion, our Wagenkoloß got out of the marshy ground, were in vain, so I had to
because, although wait reluctantly, to this unhealthy place the morning.

After midnight, it was bright, so bright that we have become extremely
bold jackals could see in our immediate vicinity.

I love to the insolent importunity this had wicked barker chastised and put me in possession
of some beautiful pelmet hides, I stood on it, because I had been advised of Farmer on Estherspruit
thereof, and the Shots the game would have been scared away.

The next morning we went on, after 200 steps, we came to the Klipspruit,
a small, then flowing, but soon after the rainy season from a few
ponds drying up Creek, which after heavy rains to a 50-100 steps propagating
current swells.

We crossed it and struck a few days on the opposite bank of our Camp on.

It was a wonderful, delightful sight of the huntsman's heart, as the dawn of day we a glimpse
into the distance in all directions towards granted. Where do we turn the eye want, anywhere we
enjoyed the sight of small and large gazelles and Gnuheerden, the
next 400 steps ahead of us, and some back just as dark spots on the
horizon, the visible to the west, south and east unlimited level.

While the Springboks in groups grazed, the Bläßböcke held in long chains behind or side by side
browsing. From several pages long drawn sound of the tone of the Trapp cries over to us, each spot
breathed life around us. When I was on that morning of 23 March 1873 to me unforgettable Observations
of my car was made since it came into my mind, give me a larger land holdings in these to be
desired areas of the fenced, the objective of all sides Wilde could serve as a refuge; but unfortunately,
this desire will probably never meet! Not the climate, the limited space in the Zoological Gardens
is one of the main reasons that so many animals in captivity . Succumbing Those traveling menagerie
will have to stop in time, the more stable result, which are growing rapidly, because of notorious
animal cruelty of the former, the so-called Gefängnißsystem, one must become more and more developing
processing of the human mind has a veto . Enjoin

On Klipspruit I wanted to take a multi-day stay, not a raid under the to keep Wilde, but, if
possible, to observe and outstanding from wild species to each win a skin for my collection. Unfortunately,
the chance even this modest Desire not hold, and today I am satisfied that it was so. We stayed until 27
March. The first day we dealt with the dissection of Gnufelles-bought - a hard work. On the
second day we followed the course of the Spruit, which is like a
pit by the plane wall, and only in places had in pools of water to
a suitable hiding place in to find his bed and the game to be able
to flush.

Several weighing, the Transvaal farmers who were members of cereal which partly to the diamond
fields subjected, and partly from there came and met us, had three game pieces under and attached
to the car. The game was often the same to pass by close to 300 steps, which was then used
by the excellent Dutch Protect to the other side to jump from the car to throw himself into
the nearby grass and struck on the unsuspecting animals. met by three shooters in the control
of a deadly and so they offered us springbok gazelle with flesh and
hair for 1 shilling 6 pence to 1 shilling, shillings and Bläßböcke
2-3 Gnus for 7-8 shillings to.

I bought two of the former animals.

But neither I nor my white companions Waidmann luck was now hold, already had three Days passed without
result, the last day (March 27) I decided once again, my happiness to try and took a trip down
the Spruit.

In my previous few days after this direction taken trips I was a Location in the bed of the
river widened slightly noticed that as of the Wild Tränkstelle seemed
to be used.

Next to her, and taught throughout the otherwise dry bed one on each side of a pool (the Tränkstelle)
fringed path that the game and especially after the trail Judging, Gnu's seemed to choose the
transgression of the bed.

I thought it Best to lie on this path in the decency and expect the approach of game.

I left the car after sunrise and laid crawl about two miles remote route back. It might have been
but for 11 clock before I'll be able to be related, because in places the actual bed was very
shallow and located in the same forward moving person could easily be observed by the Troop
level. The Path was narrow, bordered on one side of pond with reeds.

The river was, as I mentioned earlier, fairly wide, flat and shallow, as otherwise observed
in the course of the Klipspruit was. I liked one hours have been due to the path, the sun was
burning hot and made me my position quite uncomfortable, as from the northeast were some shots
in the distance; partially covered by a grass bush, I peeked to the east of, but saw nothing
except more quietly grazing herds of springbok, wildebeest and Bläßböcken's. Of the latter I
found one on the fact that the animals, a trottend behind the other, a certain direction taken,
and precisely according to me, seemed to have. I turned so against this bank and made my gun
ready to fire. However, as the Gnu's still a long way and were slowly moving forward, I turned
my head to the opposite Page, where I previously peeps, and marveled not a little in a numerous
Bläßbockheerde quick course from the same direction from which the shots had fallen, approaching
to see. The animals were closer to me than the slow-moving gnus, and since they have the same Direction,
we have chosen the path seemed to say, I was unfaithful to the latter, crawled, I basically flat
on the ground until the middle of the bed, to the opposite flat edge was still get to me any more
time.

After a few seconds, I lift up his head a little, the animals had now been in the immediate
be nearby. But what a disappointment! The Bläßböcke me must have noticed, for about 200 Steps
ahead of me they had turned to flee. The last of the herd animals were a Gais and a little kid,
get to the living, my liveliest desire was, and I wanted to It therefore try to Gais hurting
me and then to seize the kid.

In the Right-run shot, reared on the Gais, limped at first, but soon she was back in full speed,
followed immediately by the kid and had to hasten away flock obtained.

I crawled to my earlier point to, on the western edge, I bent down to quickly To download again,
and may impose one of the nice bucks. I carried the ball just one, when I heard about me a huff
and hiss. Looking up, I was shocked how rare before. Without me noticing, was observed by me
in the full course after Gnuheerde Crossing paths come herangeraunt
that bemähnten heads cut deep, the white tail lifted, they came like
a whirlwind herangebraust.

A few more moments and I was less than their hooves. Since I am after the close acquaintance with
their horns and sharp hooves not quite longed, I jumped up quickly to deal with loud cries
and by firing of the rifle to scare the animals to a stop, if possible, to force them to return.

No
sooner said than done. Jumping up and waving the gun, I shouted out loud. Were astonished because
the Animals. The shaggy heads turned towards me - a shot and turned the foremost bull the
deep head down and roar loudly, twice in a circle, then right, followed by the herd, after about
10 steps, he turned back, described a circle, followed again by the whole flock, and this manner
from time to time, recurring, distant the herd with uplifted tails and growling loudly.

Before, however, had the animals for the second time in turning in circles, I sent them a well-aimed
bullet after me choose a half-grown animal of the herd. Nevertheless, that I turn the floor heard
the animal seemed to have suffered no damage to . Remove Since I shot on my sheet's, as I thought,
sure, I followed the Animals in the sweat of my brow in the scorching sun for about four miles
- but vain, the animal was probably the last in the herd, but the distance between me and the animals
grew larger, I was so tired that I finally got the tracking had to
give up and go back to the car disappointed.

After I had something stronger, I went to Gert to the trail of the wounded Gnu to follow, it
was not hard to find them, we followed the trail of the flock of the Office which I held at
the impact of the gnus and probably two miles further than I earlier given up the pursuit - it had
passed the whole five hours since that time - were we already half worn away, the cadaver of
a young wildebeest bull, we gathered the numerous Vultures had left as prey. However, I was upset
by this failure so that I broke the same day the camp and our trip
to the interior of the Transvaal Republic continued.

As the goal of my trip I had the upper Moi River located a cave Wonder Font chosen from where
I intended to connect the way back to the diamond fields. As a scientific Yield taught me to stay at
a pretty young Klipspruit water iguana, some Otters, insects, scolopenders and plants, especially
grasses, and some Grünsteinvarietäten a .-- We drove late into the night and held northeast on
a plane about four miles of the Klipspruit-Furth to.
 One day we bought a cage full of them, and tried to keep
them alive in our room by feeding them with sugar and water, but the poor little things pined
away. In old times the Mexicans were famous for their ornaments of humming-bird's feathers.
The taste with which they arranged feathers of many shades of colour, excited the admiration
of the conquerors; and the specimens we may still see in museums are beautiful things, and
their great age has hardly impaired the brilliancy of their tints. This curious art was practised
by the highest nobility, and held in great esteem, just as working tapestry used to be in Europe,
only that the feather-work was mostly done by men. It is a lost art, for one cannot take much
account of such poor things as are done now, in which, moreover, the designs are European.
In this garden at Tacubaya we saw for the first time the praying Mantis, and caught him as
he sat in his usual devotional attitude. His Spanish name is "el predicador," the preacher.

We got back to Mexico in time for the Corrida de Toros. The bull-ring was a large one, and
there were many thousands of people there; but as to the spectacle itself, whether one took
it upon its merits, or merely compared it with the bull-fights of Old Spain, it was disgusting.
The bulls were cautious and cowardly, and could hardly be got to fight; and the matadors almost
always failed in killing them; partly through want of skill, partly because it is really harder
to kill a quiet bull than a fierce one who runs straight at his assailant. To fill up the measure
of the whole iniquitous proceeding, they brought in a wretch in a white jacket with a dagger,
to finish the unfortunate beasts which the matador could not kill in the legitimate way. It
was evidently quite the regular thing, for the spectators expressed no surprise at it.

After the bull-fight proper was finished, there came two or three supplementary performances,
which were genuinely Mexican, and very well worth seeing. A very wild bull was turned into
the ring, where two lazadores, on beautiful little horses, were waiting for him. The bull set
off at full speed after one of the riders, who cantered easily ahead of him; and the other,
leisurely untying his lazo, hung it over his left arm, and then, taking the end in his light
hand, let the cord fall through the loop into a running noose, which he whirled two or three
times round his head, and threw it so neatly that it settled gently down over the bull's neck.
In a moment the other end of the cord was wound several times round the pummel of the saddle,
and the little horse set off at full speed to get ahead of the bull. But the first rider had
wheeled round, thrown his lazo upon the ground, and just as the bull stepped within the noose,
whipped it up round his hind leg, and galloped off in a contrary direction. Just as the first
lazo tightened round his neck, the second jerked him by the leg, and the beast rolled helplessly
over in the sand. Then they got the lazos off, no easy matter when one isn't accustomed to
it, and set him off again, catching him by hind legs or fore legs just as they pleased, and
inevitably bringing him down, till the bull was tired out and no longer resisted. Then they
both lazo'd him over the horns, and galloped him out, amid the cheers of the spectators. The
amusements finished with the "colear." This is quite peculiar to Mexico, and is done on this
wise. The coleador rides after the bull, who has an idea that something is going to happen,
and gallops off as fast as he can go, throwing out his hind legs in his awkward bullish fashion.
Now, suppose you are the coleador, sitting in your peaked Mexican saddle, that rises behind
and before, and keeps you in your seat without an effort on your part. You gallop after the
bull, and when you come up with him, you pull as hard as you can to keep your horse back; for,
if he is used to the sport, as almost all Mexican horses are, he is wild to get past, not noticing
that his rider has got no hold of the toro. Well, you are just behind the bull, a little to
the left of him, and out of the way of his hind legs, which will trip your horse up if you
don't take care; you take your right foot out of the stirrup, catch hold of the end of the
bull's tail (which is very long), throw your leg over it, and so twist the end of the tail
round your leg below the knee. You have either got the bridle between your teeth or have let
it go altogether, and with your left hand you give your horse a crack with the whip; he goes
forward with a bound, and the bull, losing his balance by the sudden jerk behind, rolls over
on the ground, and gets up, looking very uncomfortable. The faster the bull gallops, the easier
it is to throw him over; and two boys of twelve or fourteen years of age coleared a couple
of young bulls in the arena, in great style, pitching them over in all directions. The farmers
and landed proprietors are immensely fond of both these sports, which the bulls--by the way--seem
to dislike most thoroughly; but this exhibition in the bull-ring was better than what one generally
sees, and the leperos were loud in their expressions of delight.

When we had been a week or two in the city of Mexico, we decided upon making an excursion to
the great silver mining district of the Real del Monte. Some of our English friends were leaving
for England, and had engaged the whole of the Diligence to Pachuca, going from thence up to
the Real, and thence to Tampico, with all the pomp and circumstance of a train of carriages
and an armed escort. We were invited to go with them as far as Pachuca; and accordingly we
rose very early on the 28th of March, got some chocolate under difficulties, and started in
the Diligence, seven grown-up people, and a baby, who was very good, and was spoken of and
to as "leoncito." On the high plateaus of Mexico, the children of European parents grow up
as healthy and strong as at home; it is only in the districts at a lower elevation above the
sea, on the coasts for instance, that they do not thrive. Mr. G., who was leaving Mexico, was
the head of a great merchant-house, and it was as a compliment to him and Mrs. G. that we were
accompanied by a party of English horsemen for the first two or three leagues. Englishmen take
much more easily to Mexican ways about horses than the Mexicans do to ours, and a finer turn-out
of horses and riders than our amateur escort could hardly have been found in Mexico. There
was our friend Don Guillermo, who rode a beautiful horse that had once belonged to the captain
of a band of robbers, and had not its equal in the city for swiftness; and Don Juan on his
splendid little brown horse Pancho, lazoing stray mules as he went, and every now and then
galloping into a meadow by the roadside after a bull, who was off like a shot the moment he
heard the sound of hoofs. I wonder whether I shall ever see them again, those jovial open-hearted
countrymen of ours. At last our companions said good-bye, and loaded pistols were carefully
arranged on the centre cushion in case of an attack, much to the edification of my companion
and myself, as it rather implied that, if fighting were to be done, we two should have to sit
inside to be shot at without a chance of hitting anybody in return.

The hedges of the Organ Cactus are a feature in the landscape of the plains, and we first saw
them to perfection on the road between Mexico and Pachuca. This plant, the Cereus hexagonus,
grows in Italy in the open air, but seems not to be turned to account anywhere except in Mexico
for the purpose to which it is particularly suited. In its wild state it grows like a candelabrum,
with a thick trunk a few feet high, from the top of which it sends out shoots, which, as soon
as they have room, rise straight upwards in fluted pillars fifteen or twenty feet in height.
Such a plant, with pillars rising side by side and almost touching one another, has a curious
resemblance to an organ with its pipes, and thence its name "órgano."

To make a fence, they break off the straight lateral shoots, of the height required, and plant
them closely side by side, in a trench, sufficiently deep to ensure their standing firmly;
and it is a curious sight to see a labourer bearing on his shoulder one of these vegetable
pillars, as high as himself, and carefully guarding himself against its spines. A hedge perfectly
impassable is obtained at once; the cactus rooting so readily, that it is rare to see a gap
where one has died. The villagers surround their gardens with these fences of cactus, which
often line the road for miles together. Foreigners used to point out such villages to us, and
remark that they seemed "well organized," a small joke which unfortunately bears translation
into all ordinary European languages, and was inflicted without mercy upon us as new comers.

We reached Pachuca early in the afternoon, and took up our quarters in the inn there, and our
friends went on to Real del Monte.

This little town of Pachuca has long been a place of some importance in the world, as regards
mining-operations. The Aztecs worked silver-mines here, as well as at Tasco, long before the
Spaniards came, and they knew how to smelt the ore. It is true that, if no better process than
smelting were known now, most of the mines would scarcely be worth working; but still, to know
how to extract silver at all was a great step; and indeed at that time, and for long after
the Conquest, there was no better method known in Europe. It was in this very place that a
Spaniard, Medina by name, discovered the process of amalgamation with mercury, in the year
1557, some forty years after the invasion. We went to see the place where he first worked his
new process, and found it still used as a "hacienda de beneficio" (establishment for extracting
silver from the ore.) So few discoveries in the arts have come out of Mexico, or indeed out
of any Spanish colony, that we must make the most of this really very important method, which
is more extensively used than any other, both in North and South America. As for the rest of
the world, it produces, comparatively, so little silver, that it is scarcely worth taking into
account.

We had forgotten, when we went to bed, that we were nearly seven hundred feet higher than Mexico;
but had the fact brought to our remembrance by waking in the middle of the night, feeling very
cold, and finding our thermometer marking 40 degrees Fahr.; whereupon we covered ourselves
with cloaks, and the cloaks with the strips of carpet at our bedsides, and went to sleep again.

We had hired, of the French landlord, two horses and a mozo to guide us, and sorry hacks they
were when we saw them in the morning. It was delightful to get a little circulation into our
veins by going at the best gallop our horses would agree to; for we were fresh from hot countries,
and not at all prepared for having our hands and feet numbed with cold, and being as hoarse
as ravens--for the sore throat which is the nuisance of the district, and is very severe upon
new comers, had not spared us. Evaporation is so rapid at this high altitude that if you wet
the back of your hand it dries almost instantly, leaving a smart sensation of cold. One may
easily suppose, that when people have been accustomed to live under the ordinary pressure of
the air, their throats and lungs do not like being dried up at this rate; besides their having,
on account of the rarity of the air, to work harder in breathing, in order to get in the necessary
quantity of oxygen.

Coughs seem very common here, especially among the children, though people look strong and
healthy, but in the absence of proper statistics one cannot undertake to say whether the district
is a healthy one or not.

For a wonder we have a good road, and this simply because the Real del Monte Company wanted
one, and made it for themselves. How unfortunate all Spanish countries are in roads, one of
the most important first steps towards civilization! When one has travelled in Old Spain, one
can imagine that the colonists did not bring over very enlightened ideas on the subject; and
as the Mexicans were not allowed to hold intercourse with any other country, it is easy to
explain why Mexico is all but impassable for carriages. But if the money--or half of it--that
has been spent in building and endowing churches and convents had been devoted to road-making,
this might have been a great and prosperous country.

For some three hours we rode along among porphyritic mountains, getting higher at every turn,
and enjoying the clear bright air. Now and then we met or passed a long recua (train) of loaded
mules, taking care to keep the safe side of the road till we were rid of them. It is not pleasant
to meet a great drove of horned cattle in an Alpine pass, but I really think a recua of loaded
mules among the Andes is worse. A knowing old beast goes first, and the rest come tumbling
after him anyhow, with their loads often projecting a foot or two on either side, and banging
against anybody or anything. Then, wherever the road is particularly narrow, and there is a
precipice of two or three hundred feet to fall over, one or two of them will fall down, or
get their packs loose, and so block up the road, and there is a general scrimmage of kicking
and shoving behind, till the arrieros can get things straight again. At last we reach the top
of a ridge, and see the little settlement of Real del Monte below us. It is more like a Cornish
mining village than anything else; but of course the engine-houses, chimneys, and mine-sheds,
built by Cornishmen in true Cornish fashion, go a long way towards making up the resemblance.
The village is built on the awkwardest bit of ground possible, up and down on the side of a
steep ravine, one house apparently standing on the roof of another; and it takes half a mile
of real hard climbing to get from the bottom of the town to the top.

We put up our horses at a neat little inn kept by an old Englishwoman, and walked or climbed
up to the Company's house. We made several new acquaintances at the Real, though we left within
a few hours, intending to see the place thoroughly on our return.

One peculiarity of the Casa Grande--the great house of the Company--was the warlike appearance
of everybody in it. The clerks were posting up the ledgers with loaded revolvers on the desk
before them; the manager's room was a small arsenal, and the gentlemen rode out for exercise,
morning and evening, armed to the teeth. Not that there is anything to be apprehended from
robbers--indeed I should like to see any of the Mexican ladrones interfering with the Cornish
miners, who would soon teach them better manners. I am inclined to think there is a positive
pleasure in possessing and handling guns and pistols, whether they are likely to be of any
use or not. Indeed, while travelling through the western and southern States of America, where
such things are very generally carried, I was the possessor of a five-barrelled revolver, and
admit that I derived an amount of mild satisfaction from carrying it about, and shooting at
a mark with it, that amply compensated for the loss of two dollars I incurred by selling it
to a Jew at New Orleans.

We rode on to Regla, soon finding that our guide had never been there before; so, next morning,
we kept the two horses and dismissed him with ignominy. A fine road leads from the Real to
Regla, for all the silver-ore from the mines is conveyed there to have the silver separated
from it. My notes of our ride mention a great water-wheel: sections of porphyritic rocks, with
enormous masses of alluvial soil lying upon them: steep ravines: arroyos, cut by mountain-streams,
and forests of pine-trees--a thoroughly Alpine district altogether. At Regla it became evident
that our letter of introduction was not a mere complimentary affair. There is not even a village
there; it is only a great hacienda, belonging to the Company, with the huts of the workmen
built near it. The Company, represented by Mr. Bell, received us with the greatest hospitality.
Almost before the letter was opened our horses and mozo were off to the stables, our room was
ready, and our dinner being prepared as fast as might be. What a pleasant evening we had, after
our long day's work! We had a great wood-fire, and sat by it, talking and looking at Mr. Bell's
photographs and minerals, which serve as an amusement in his leisure-hours. The Company's Administrador
leads rather a peculiar life here. There is no want of work or responsibility; he has two or
three hundred Indians to manage, almost all of whom will steal and cheat without the slightest
scruple, if they can but get a chance; he has to assay the ores, superintend a variety of processes
which require the greatest skill and judgment, and he is in charge of property to the value
of several hundred thousand pounds. Then a man must have a constitution of iron to live in
a place where the air is so rarefied, and where the temperature varies thirty and forty degrees
between morning and noon. As for society, he must find it in his own family; for even the better
class of Mexicans are on so different a level, intellectually, from an educated Englishman,
that their society bores him utterly, and he had rather be left in solitude than have to talk
to them. Well, it is a great advantage to travellers that circumstances fix pleasant people
in such out-of-the-way places.

One necessary part of a hacienda is a church. The proprietors are compelled by law to build
one, and pay the priest's fees for mass on Sundays and feast-days. Now, almost all the English
one meets with engaged in business, or managing mines and plantations, are Scotch, and one
may well suppose that there is not much love lost between them and the priests. The father
confessor plays an important part in the great system of dishonesty that prevails to so monstrous
an extent throughout the country. He hears the particulars of the thefts and cheatings that
have been practised on the proprietor who builds his church and pays for his services, and
he complacently absolves his penitents in consideration of a small penance. They
are good something, so they will stay, no matter whether
they are presently praise or blame. They are good nothing,
they will disappear, no matter whether one they now reject
it or not. And what the main thing is the one who determined
about its value or worthlessness, am I alone. None of my opponents,
and he was literature, however powerful and influential,
can also have the least influence it. That sounds proud and
boastful, but it's true. These works are Sketches collections
are over, preparations are Later. I manage this late, is
all by I am preparing to be justified, one might Now think
about it and write how or what you want.

Now we are left with a final remark in Muenchmeyerromane relationship
to the left.

    One of my bitterest opponents, wrote me to it
so no one , White trash make that a publishing novels in
moral immoral can turn, that would help a tremendous job
be that no one has grown. This gentleman seems happy to
be the life and driving a trash publisher to be infinitely
distant. First, if a man of the time and is equal to the
trouble to write a novel, one must still much more to the shorter
time and the least effort to cope, this novel ! Umzuaendern
Second, given such an alteration not so much time and
work, as my opponent seems to assume. The insertion of
some words quite sufficient, a "moral" pressure arch
an "immoral" to transform. Third, Forces more than enough
for such revisions available and they have such an
amazing routine is to that even the experts themselves
beyond measure, they deal surprised. I have provided here
about evidence and will bring even more. The often-cited
Walther factotum sat at Muenchmeyers daily from early to night,
just to make such work, and then To read the correction
that the author never see received. What fish that first
buyers of Muenchmeyerschen Business and then a few years later,
his heirs me material about this revision of my novels
and testified in court, is known. In that regard, Muenchmeyers
Nephew, the chief machinist, was a witness in the trial
confirmed that Muenchmeyer with his own hand all Chapter has
changed. Another witness has sworn, Muenchmeyer had confessed
to him that he is in my Great novels, extensive make changes
without it to be allowed to tell me. I need not go well
Other examples that are available to me To lead to make it understand
that I absolutely the presentation of my original manuscripts
require, that Evidence but in any case force is quite different
from such the dark memories of an old typesetter, which one
expects of it, after thirty years in the Tohu wa bohu
navigate the then Muenchmeyerschen Schriftkaesten.
 These
places profess to smelt ore from one or two little mines in the neighbourhood, but their real
object is no secret. They buy the stolen bits of rich ore from the Indian labourers, giving
exactly half the value for it.

Of course, we must not judge these Mexican labourers as though we had a very high standard
of honesty at home. That we should see workmen searched habitually in England, at the doors
of our national dock-yards, is a much greater disgrace to us. And not merely a disgrace, but
a serious moral evil, for to expose an honest man to such a degradation is to make him half
a thief already.

People who know the Indian population best assure us that their lives are a perpetual course
of intrigue and dissimulation. Always trying to practise some small fraud upon their masters,
and even upon their own people, they are in constant fear that every one is trying to overreach
them. They are afraid to answer the simplest question, lest it should be a trap laid to catch
them. They ponder over every word and action of their European employers, to find out what
hidden intrigue lies beneath, and to devise some counter-plot. Sartorius says that when he
has met an Indian and asked his name, the brown man always gave a false one, lest the enquirer
should want to do him some harm.

Never did any people show more clearly the effects of ages of servitude and oppression; but,
hopeless as the moral condition of this mining population seems, there is one favourable circumstance
to be put on record. The Cornish miners, who have been living among them for years, have worked
quite perceptibly upon the Indian character by the example of their persevering industry, their
love of saving, and their utter contempt for thieves and liars. Instead of squandering their
wages, or burying them in the ground, many of the Indian miners take their savings to the Banks;
and the opinions of the foreigners are gradually--though very slowly--altering the popular
standard of honesty, the first step towards the moral improvement of the Mexican population.

In the morning we went off for an excursion, having got a lively young fellow from the hacienda
in exchange for our stupid mozo. There was hoar frost on the ground, and the feeling of cold
was intense at first; but the sun began to warm the ground about eight o'clock, and we were
soon glad to fasten our great coats and shawls to our saddles. Three leagues took us to the
town of Atotonilco[9] el Grande, which gives its name to the plateau we were crossing. Here
we are no longer in the valley of Mexico, which is separated from this plain by the mountains
of the Real del Monte. We rode on two leagues more to the village of Soquital[10] where, it
being Sunday, we found the inhabitants--mostly Indians--amusing themselves by standing in the
sun, doing nothing. I can hardly say "doing nothing," though, for we went into the tienda,
or shop, and found a brisk trade going on in raw spirits. Tienda, in Spanish, means a tent
or booth. The first shops were tents or booths at fairs or in market-places; and thence "tienda"
came to mean a shop in general; a derivation which corresponds with that of the word "shop"
itself. Such of the population as had money seemed to drop in at regular intervals for a dram,
which consisted of a small wine-glassful of white-corn-brandy, called chinguerito. We tasted
some, while the people at the shop were frying eggs and boiling beans for our breakfast; and
found it so strong that a small sip brought tears into our eyes, to the amusement of the bystanders.
It seemed that everybody was drinking who could afford it; from the old men and women to the
babies in their mothers' arms; everybody had a share, except those who were hard up, and they
stood about the door looking stolidly at the drinkers. There was nothing like gaiety in the
whole affair; only a sort of satisfaction appeared in the face of each as he took his dose.
It is the drinkers of pulque who get furiously drunk, and fight; here it is different. These
drinkers of spirits are not much given to that enormous excess that kills off the Red Indians;
indeed, they are seldom drunk enough to lose their wits, and they never have delirium tremens,
which would come upon a European, with much less provocation. They get into a habit of daily--almost
hourly--dram-drinking, and go on, year after year, in this way; seeming, as far as we could
judge, to live a long while, such a life as it is. As we mounted our horses and rode on, we
agreed that we had seldom seen a more melancholy and depressing sight.

We met some arrieros, who had brought up salt from the coast; and they, seeing that we were
English, judged we had something to do with mines, and proposed to sell us their goods. The
price of salt here is actually three-pence per lb., in a district where its consumption is
immense, as it is used in refining the silver ore. It must be said, however, that this is an
unusual price; for the muleteers have been so victimised by their mules being seized, either
by the government or the rebels (one seems about as bad as the other in this respect), that
they must have a high price to pay them for the risk. Generally seven reals, or 3s. 6d. per
arroba of 25 lbs. is the price. This salt is evaporated in the salinas of Campeche, taken by
water to Tuzpan, and then brought up the country on mules' backs--each beast carrying 300 lbs.
Of course, this salt is very coarse and very watery; all salt made in this way is. It suits
the New Orleans people better to import salt from England, than to make it in this way in the
Gulf of Mexico, though the water there is very salt, and the sun very hot. The fact, that it
pays to carry salt on mules' backs, tells volumes about the state of the country. At the lowest
computation, the mules would do four or five times as much work if they were set to draw any
kind of cart--however rough--on a carriageable road. It is true that there is some sort of
road from here to Tampico, but an English waggoner would not acknowledge it by that name at
all; and the muleteers are still in possession of most of the traffic in this district, as
indeed they are over almost all the country.

It was mid-day by this time; and, as we could not get to the Rio Grande without taking our
chance for the night in some Indian rancho, we turned back. The heat had become so oppressive
that we took off our coats; and Mr. Christy, riding in his shirt-sleeves and holding a white
umbrella over his head, which he had further protected with a turban, declared that even in
the East he had not had so fatiguing a ride. We passed through Soquital, and there the natives
were idling and drinking spirits as before, and seemed hardly to have moved since we left.
This plateau of Atotonilco el Grande, called for shortness Grande, is, like most of the high
plains of Mexico, composed mostly of porphyry and obsidian, a valley filled up with débris
from the surrounding mountains, which are all volcanic, embedded in reddish earth. The mountain-torrents--in
which the water, so to speak, comes down all at once, not flowing in a steady stream all the
year round as in England--have left evidences of their immense power in the ravines with which
the sides of the hills, from their very tops downward, are fluted.

These fluted mountain-ridges resemble the "Kamms" (combs) of the Swiss Alps, called so from
their toothed appearance.

We had met numbers of Indians, bringing their wares to the Sunday market in the great square
of Atotonilco el Grande; and when we reached the town on our way home, business was still going
on briskly; so we put up our horses, and spent an hour or two in studying the people and the
commodities they dealt in. It was a real old-fashioned Indian market, very much such as the
Spaniards found when they first penetrated into the country. A large proportion of the people
could speak no Spanish, or only a few words. The unglazed pottery, palm-leaf mats, ropes and
bags of aloe-fibre, dressed skins, &c., were just the same wares that were made three centuries
ago; and there is no improvement in their manufacture. This people, who rose in three centuries
from the condition of wandering savages to a height of civilization that has no equal in history--considering
the shortness of the time in which it grew up--have remained, since the Conquest, without making
one step in advance. They hardly understand any reason for what they do, except that their
ancestors did things so--they therefore must be right. They make their unglazed pottery, and
carry it five and twenty miles to market on their heads, just as they used to do when there
were no beasts of burden in the country. The same with their fruits and vegetables, which they
have brought great distances, up the most difficult mountain-paths, at a ruinous sacrifice
of time and trouble, considering what a miserable sum they will get for them after all, and
how much even of this will be spent in brandy. By working on a hacienda they would get double
what their labour produces in this way, but they do not understand this kind of reasoning.
They cultivate their little patches of maize, by putting a sharp stick into the ground, and
dropping the seed into the hole. They carry pots of water to irrigate their ground with, instead
of digging trenches. This is the more curious, as at the time of the Conquest irrigation was
much practised by the Aztecs in the plains, and remains of water-canals still exist, showing
that they had carried the art to great perfection. They bring logs of wood over the mountains
by harnessing horses or mules to them, and dragging them with immense labour over the rough
ground. The idea of wheels or rollers has either not occurred to them, or is considered as
a pernicious novelty.

It is very striking to see how, while Europeans are bringing the newest machinery and the most
advanced arts into the country, there is scarcely any symptom of improvement among the people,
who still hold firmly to the wisdom of their ancestors. An American author, Mayer, quotes a
story of a certain people in Italy, as an illustration of the feeling of the Indians in Mexico
respecting improvements. In this district, he says that the peasants loaded their panniers
with vegetables on one side, and balanced the opposite pannier by filling it with stones; and
when a traveller pointed out the advantage to be gained by loading both panniers with vegetables,
he was answered that their forefathers from time immemorial had so carried their produce to
market, that they were wise and good men, and that a stranger showed very little understanding
or decency who interfered in the established customs of a country. I need hardly say that the
Indians are utterly ignorant; and this of course accounts to a great extent for their obstinate
conservatism.

There were several shops round the market-place at Grande, and the brandy-drinking was going
on much as at Soquital. The shops in these small towns are general stores, like "the shop"
in coal- and iron-districts in England. It is only in large towns that the different retail-trades
are separated. One thing is very noticeable in these country stores, the certainty of finding
a great stock of sardines in bright tin boxes. The idea of finding Sardines à l'huile in Indian
villages seemed odd enough; but the fact is, that the difficulty of getting fish up from the
coast is so great that these sardines are not much dearer than anything else, and they go a
long way. Montezuma's method of supplying his table with fresh fish from the gulf, by having
relays of Indian porters to run up with it, is too expensive for general use, and there is
no efficient substitute. It is in consequence of this scarcity of fish, that Church-fasts have
never been very strictly kept in Mexico.

The method of keeping accounts in the shops--which, it is to be remembered, are almost always
kept by white or half-white people, hardly ever by Indians--is primitive enough. Here is a
score which I copied, the hieroglyphics standing for dollars, half-dollars, medios or half-reals,
cuartillos or quarter-reals, and tlacos--or clacos--which are eighths of a real, or about 3/4d.
While account-keeping among the comparatively educated trades-people is in this condition,
one can easily understand how very limited the Indian notions of calculation are. They cannot
realize any number much over ten; and twenty--cempoalli--is with them the symbol of a great
number, as a hundred was with the Greeks. There is in Mexico a mountain called in this indefinite
way "Cempoatepetl"--the twenty-mountain. Sartorius mentions the Indian name of the many-petaled
marigold--"cempoaxochitl"--the twenty-flower. We traded for some trifles of aloe-fibre, but
soon had to count up the reckoning with beans.

I have delayed long enough for the present over the Indians and their market; so, though there
is much more to be said about them, I will only add a few words respecting the commodities
for sale, and then leave them for awhile.

There seemed to be a large business doing in costales (bags) made of aloe-fibre, for carrying
ore about in the mines. True to the traditions of his ancestors, the Indian much prefers putting
his load in a bag on his back, to the far easier method of wheeling it about. Lazos sold at
one to four reals, (6d. to 2s.) according to quality. There are two kinds of aloe-fibre; one
coarse, ichtli, the other much finer, pito; the first made from the great aloe that produces
pulque, the other from a much smaller species of the same genus. The stones with which the
boiled maize is ground into the paste of which the universal tortillas are made were to be
had here; indeed, they are made in the neighbourhood, of the basalt and lava which abound in
the district. Had
ever been a man for the postal service from Shoshong to Molopolole to six months hired, he was
given food and was shot with a musket and a little material currently but with ready money
paid for his trouble.

Many lion and leopard tracks on the outskirts of the many barren ground subsidence warned us the
next day for great caution, also offered the deep sand in the wheels to eight inches deep,
sinking, big trouble. Once this might just traversed Areas have been very rich in wildlife, but
said the accumulated skeletons of antelope, especially the eland and the giraffe. In any of
the many, here and on other travel to Shoshong encountered giraffe skulls I watched the small bony spur
growths equal to some one, in some covered both with exostoses, or by such the base end connected
bridge-shaped with each other.

Towards evening I found Niger's conduct, the way the grass on our left and herlief. I called uncle -
we had lost by degrees the other dogs (seven) - accelerated my steps and still had just the
right time to leisurely a huge land iguana see climb a tree. On the first horizontally-moving,
thick branches he laid down flat and stretched so that he would have been easily overlooked,
if not the yellow stripes on the gray bark of the tree would have racked bright. The animal,
which startled by his sudden appearance of the feathered inhabitants of the tree, not a little had remained
perfectly still lying on the branches, you could only see the movements of the eyelids and the
momentary flash of small black, shiny eyes. A shotgun killing the animal, which was incorporated
into my collections.

On 31 We were re-enters deep sandy forest, the area was undulating, low Ground surveys, which provide
as bushy or tree-thinning were, in places however, were overgrown, while the shallow wells of
a very rich, though non-tropical vegetation hid. The rain had been falling in recent days
and the South Africa made us feel warm December sun's rays. On the deep sandy close Ways accompanied
pulling me as made on a dark, hanging on a high Kameeldornbaum Subject of attention. We were closer
to several large pieces of dry skin, giraffes, which might have been the hunters hung up long
ago and forgotten. In the study them we were interrupted by a hastening Makalahari, which by its Communication,
that the skin belonged to the Morena Sechele, all annexation thoughts stifled in the bud. He
and his companions were living in the woods here stationed, to temporarily encountered Hunt giraffes.
The meat was theirs, but the skin of the king. The further communication the gifts from me black
hunter, that we only have lunch the following day on water would come, drove us to hurry. Only
the approach of night made our day's march an end.

Once at camp, I just took counsel with my companions how to deal with
the Wassernoth was when the dogs began to growl.

From the same behavior, which, without the proximity of the leaving fire, peeped in on a spot
into the dark and then in the opposite Opposite side, where it struck us that it is one our
vehicle moving in the bushes Object sensed, closed pit, that this time Masarwa Makalahari or (the slaves
of Bakwena's) the rioters were.

! A quiet "Rumela, sir," the drowned in us from the bushes, triggered
a doubt, after Pit the dogs had made to rest, two blacks were on fire,
it was the postman from Shoshong on the way to Molopolole.

One carried a large piece of meat he in one, half a day's journey away bargained lying Barwadorfe
for a handful of percussion caps; when they saw that we had to deal with the water very sparingly,
they offered us their two filled with water and fresh grass tufts zugepfropften gourds, it
could unfortunately We kept the strong odor of unclean vessels pumpkin half of their friendly offer
make no use.

New Year's Day 1874 broke right on a cloudy, the day before it had been red-hot, but this The sky was
overcast with clouds and cool the atmosphere considerably. cheered
noon the sky and when we changed to our east by north direction in
a northern saw we in a depression in front of us, the draw to the
east and the beginning of a valley to seemed to be, and a small column
of smoke from the survey bushy top of this depression.

A pillar of gold could not electrify us all, as the blue, in small Clouds of mist and smoke
could be uplifting. Gradually, we realized some miserable grass huts, then children playing near
them and the bottom of the depth of two Barwa, the seemed to be waiting for us. I sent ahead Pit,
to ask for water, as we to Group were met, we shared with the servant, except that some deep,
narrow holes, from which only the residents of the small village gathered and drink water from
which a maximum of goats could no potable water in the vicinity was, but at sunset, where they
guide us with the permission of their Lord, a Bakwena's wanted.

Our guide was also part of the Bakwenastamme. I think I have already mentioned that the Bechuanas
and Koranna's of Mamusa servant, or rather slaves, have to the Makalaharistamme (also Bakalahari)
members, who used to be the areas between the Zambezi and the Orange river called his own.
Apart from these slaves, but rather mild treated are located in the six-rich Bechuanaland two
other strains in the status of slaves, the Bechuanaland's opposite,
but this position has a more pressing, for while it often happens
that Makalahari be released, and sometimes a Rapprochement and fusion
of the Ma-or Bakalahari and Bakwena's etc. statthat happens this is
never between the latter and other free Betschuanastämmen and the
two treated hard Sclavenstämmen the Barwa's, which are mentioned in
the northern Bechuanaland's Masarwa's, and Madenassana's, in the northwestern
areas of the eastern and north-eastern Western Bamangwato's stay.

I want to Barwa's and Masarwa's as a mongrel nation, born of a merger the Makalahari, ie, a branch
of the same call, with the Bushmen. Shape, skin tone, Customs and language are just as many Indicier
for this mutual relationship and I do not go wrong if I Barwa's and Masarwa's a link between
the Bushmen and the Banthufamilie call. While the Makalahari about personal servant, mainly But
pastors of the Bechuanaland's are the other Sclavenstämme have to bear hunting services employment
in which they surpass their masters too far. The bow and arrow, the Bechuanaland's strange, are
among the Barwa and Masarwa as in the real Bushmen still in use, as they understand the animals in traps,
that is poisoned with assegai (See illustration page 44) and catch in pitfalls than impeller
they are - as to them regarding the language and facial expression similar, but on the other
Western natives tribes leaning against Madenassana's - excellent use.

Only against their Cunning, infidelity and her penchant for theft, it is advisable to provide for
themselves.

They inhabit areas rich in wild small village, ie houses, whose heuschoberähnliches Skeletons of
a few in the world wrong has been driven, about five feet above the ground with each other related
posts and is covered with a layer of dry branches and grass. Otherwise shows no fence, only
a few smooth stones, after which seeds crushed, broken bones or ground are, and some ashes,
many dry pods of legumes (Trees, shrubs and plants) and some footpaths that people here live
or lived have. Guns and ammunition are entrusted to them, the skins of ostrich feathers, ivory and
Rhinoceroshorn, nebstdem also wild fruits, such as that of the Baobab, the fan palm, etc.
they must deliver to their masters. In general, we find but one or Bamangwato Barolong etc.,
whose body servants they are, run with them, he returns home, he passes the oldest of them the
command. In every other case they have to derive from two to five
months in the capital arrive and deliver the prey.

At the same visits, it is them but not allowed to enter during the day in the city, they settle
outside the city, and after the next best residents their name, place of residence and purpose
of their Coming and that it has communicated back to the king, they are in the evening after
sunset a messenger sent to lead them in the Kotla. Those who visit the royal city at the appointed
time by refraining from contact with a messenger sent out by the head of their Obligations and
warned collected.

The Masarwa's are of medium height, reddish-brown complexion and have a repelling Facial features,
in shape approaching the bush man, in their facial features and the Makalahari's complexion. They
are less loyal and affectionate than the latter, why they are also rarely used by their masters
in battle and as a shepherd, but as spies or to guard the borders and from the first approach
of an enemy of the heap King City to bring message.

sees no tribe in central South Africa in the driest areas with such success to feel for water,
the scent of the game as true record and the game so cleverly and to creep up unnoticed and to listen
as the Barwa's and Masarwa's. However, because they in consequence of their bad habits of the
Bechuanaland's are treated harshly, they are also the white become suspicious of. If you travel
across the Kalahari, or sand in the woods, we just crossed, or in
those between Shoshong and The Accessibility River and those between
the salt lakes and the Zambezi, one is often without the slightest
inkling of it, of Members of the tribe followed, whether the doing
of his suspicion and to avoid hard work to have to be afraid of holding
in the distance of the whites.

But if you have a piece of shot deer, one sees in before yet solidified their prey, surrounded
by a troop of Barwa's, which with impatience to wait for the moment, will be asked to gutting
the prey, a As part of the meat to pay. I would say they are among the South African Races,
what with the birds, the vultures and the jackals in the mammals. Circles in the above mentioned
areas a buzzard high in the air, so it has also been the Masarwa Eye spotted and he quickly
rushes to the spot where the vultures settled.

Surprise it now on such occasions the king of the beasts at the meal, they seek by shouting, to
drive away with stone-throwing and fire the beast of prey, attacked, they flee like monkeys
in the trees and hide like a weasel in the thorn bushes to the einzubohren they pursued one of
its lions poisoned arrows in a thinner skin site.

After the communication of my friend Mackenzie's this Masarwa and Barwa's of the Bechuanaland's usually
a Masarwa bolotsana thata, that bad people (villains) and Ki Masarwa linoga hela (real snakes)
titled.

Like the Bushmen in the colony and the Orange Free State, hate and Masarwa's Barwa's Agriculture
and livestock, but I never watched - except for some, those of the Makalahari's similar to
bone and wood exported, most simple, burnt or cut Strokes, etc. - that they run Gravír in simple stone
or stone objects in their Household would use. However, they work long chains of round slices
of ostrich eggs and other ornaments from this material. I was with them either by a Höhlenbau
in rocks, still see something of a decoration of cones or to find out however, I found them in the
most crass superstition in full bloom.

On the hunt, the Masarwa may now be alone or accompanied by his Betschuanaherrn be the simple
bone and wood amulets (Dolos) shaken and thrown to the direction
of the to experience the same game, the type and number and success
of the hunt.

You will also be Disease cases interviewed, and whether the "Lord" comes. Of the Bechuanaland men he has
the name Morimo for God snapped, and even though the Bechuanaland Morimo the concept, that of
his ancestors were revered, until the idea that a higher-than Morimo
Morena's described (Prince) equal thing or higher being lost, but
also called Masarwa of Barwa and its Dolos who teach him about everything
and to teach, his treasure and his dearest possession with Morimo
he says' this is my God (Se-se Morimo-s) "or he says" the things of
my God (Lilo tsa Morimo above me) "and the things it Notify "Lilo-lia
impulelela mehuku."

But not only that his Dolos be Morimo or property, are the property of a powerful being, he also
claims the other hand, that he himself with throwing this opportunity Dolos Morimo admit shew
his knowledge, and that he himself was Morimo's tool.

Barwa Masarwamänner and show their affection towards women more than the Bechuanas and Makalahari's the
hardest work is the rightful them get water in with the bark, Knitting or animal skin strips
braided ostrich egg shells or pumpkin and wearing hardly worth mentioning the house utensils. The
primitive cabins are comfortably in few hours produced.

A huge fan of the show Masarwa for his dogs, which, unlike to the bad treatment that the domestic
animals of the Bechuanaland's become part, at they are usually well maintained.

Of their customs, few are aware, there was not a traveler in a position yet, longer time to live
in or near a Masarwadorfes and to their language abilities are; We know only that they are in
the stage of puberty, with a bone, the nasal septum Insert a wooden plugs and drill to create
a small circular opening. The sticks will be achieved after the purpose, removed, they call
this act rupa, what is a word taken from the Setschuana however, and the Einleitungceremonie
to circumcision in Bechuanaland's called.

What is perhaps the most travelers to the Masarwa's, which in some areas of medium height, sometimes
even in the country's Bamangwato or Bakwena's etc. as well as the ruling tribe of high stature are
in addition to the ugliness of its most remarkable features, which are the reddish when half
roasted looking forward shin areas, often bear the forearm and the
back and the back of the feet and legs similar scar-like features.

The Masarwa - in rarer cases, the Makalahari - the little more than a short piece of fur over his shoulder
has thrown out a little and sometimes worked from nothing Elandfell scutellum for its protection
carries with it, is very sensitive to the cold. Instead after Betschuanasitte to make a little
courtyard and fenced here or to that of the Koranna's in the hut itself to light a fire, he lit
the outdoors and his always looks for you as soon as to heat practicable, but the fire moved
as close as possible and sleeping with the squatted Sunken knees, pressed his head between
the arms of one, then so are the front Lower leg areas of these poor
creatures to those of the metatarsus of the mating Strauss taps stained
not dissimilar.

Reported one of the Bushmen of the colony that he uses the skin of the game to get the same approach
to meeting up on his wide arrow, then used the Masarwa a small dense bush as cover, that is the
bush with one hand, holding out before him, and advancing, in order to crawling position to stalk
his victims.
 But the Mexican knives are generally not pointed, but turned up at the
end, as one may bend up a druggist's spatula. This peculiar shape is not given to answer a
purpose, but results from the natural fracture of the stone.

Even then, the way of making several implements or weapons is not entirely clear. We got several
obsidian maces or lance-heads--one about ten inches long--which were taper from base to point,
and covered with taper flutings; and there are other things which present great difficulties.
I have heard on good authority, that somewhere in Peru, the Indians still have a way of working
obsidian by laying a bone wedge on the surface of a piece, and tapping it till the stone cracks.
Such a process may have been used in Mexico.

We may see in museums beautiful little articles made in this intractable material, such as
the mirrors and masks I have mentioned, and even rings and cups. But, as I have said, these
are mere lapidaries' work.

The situation of the mines was picturesque; grand hills of porphyritic rock, and pine-forest
everywhere. Not far off is the broad track of a hurricane, which had walked through it for
miles, knocking the great trees down like ninepins, and leaving them to rot there. The vegetation
gave evident proof of a severe climate; and yet the heat and glare of the sun were more intolerable
than we had ever felt it in the region of sugar-canes and bananas. About here, some of the
trachytic porphyry which forms the substance of the hills had happened to have cooled, under
suitable conditions, from the molten state into a sort of slag or volcanic glass, which is
the obsidian in question; and, in places, this vitreous lava--from one layer having flowed
over another which was already cool--was regularly stratified.

The mines were mere wells, not very deep; with horizontal workings into the obsidian where
it was very good and in thick layers. Round about were heaps of fragments, hundreds of tons
of them; and it was clear, from the shape of these, that some of the manufacturing was done
on the spot. There had been great numbers of pits worked; and it was from these "minillas,"
little mines, as they are called, that we first got an idea how important an element this obsidian
was in the old Aztec civilization. In excursions made since, we travelled over whole districts
in the plains, where fragments of these arrows and knives were to be found, literally at every
step, mixed with morsels of pottery, and here and there a little clay idol. Among the heaps
of fragments were many that had become weathered on the upper side, and had a remarkable lustre,
like silver. Obsidian is called bizcli by the Indians, and the silvery sort is known as bizcli
platera.[11] They often find bits of it in the fields; and go with great secrecy and mystery
to Mr. Bell, or some other authority in mining matters, and confide to him their discovery
of a silver-mine. They go away angry and unconvinced when told what their silver really is;
and generally come to the conclusion that he is deceiving them, with a view of throwing them
off the scent, that he may find the place for himself, and cheat them of their share of the
profits--just what their own miserable morbid cunning would lead them to do under such circumstances.

The family-likeness that exists among the stone tools and weapons found in so many parts of
the world is very remarkable. The flint-arrows of North America, such as Mr. Longfellow's arrow-maker
used to work at in the land of the Dacotahs, and which, in the wild northern states of Mexico,
the Apaches and Comanches use to this day, might be easily mistaken for the weapons of our
British ancestors, dug up on the banks of the Thames. It is true that the finish of the Mexican
obsidian implements far exceeds that of the chipped flint and agate weapons of Scandinavia,
and still more those of England, Switzerland, and Italy, where they are dug up in such quantities,
in deposits of alluvial soil, and in bone-caves in the limestone rocks. But this higher finish
we may attribute partly to the superiority of the material; for the Mexicans also used flint
to some extent, and their flint weapons are as hard to distinguish by inspection as those from
other parts of the world. We may reasonably suppose, moreover, that the skill of the Mexican
artificer increased when he found a better material than flint to work upon. Be this as it
may, an inspection of any good collection of such articles shows the much higher finish of
the obsidian implements than of those of flint, agate, and rock-crystal. They say there is
an ingenious artist who makes flint arrow-heads and stone axes for the benefit of English antiquarians,
and earns good profits by it: I should like to give him an order for ribbed obsidian razors
and spear-heads; I don't think he would make much of them.

The wonderful similarity of character among the stone weapons found in different parts of the
world has often been used by ethnologists as a means of supporting the theory that this and
other arts were carried over the world by tribes migrating from one common centre of creation
of the human species. The argument has not much weight, and a larger view of the subject quite
supersedes it.

We may put the question in this way. In Asia and in Europe the use of stone tools and weapons
has always characterized a very low state of civilization; and such implements are only found
among savage tribes living by the chase, or just beginning to cultivate the ground and to emerge
from the condition of mere barbarians. Now, if the Mexicans got their civilization from Europe,
it must have been from some people unacquainted with the use of iron, if not of bronze. Iron
abounds in Mexico, not only in the state of ore, but occurring nearly pure in aerolites of
great size, as at Cholula, and at Zacatecas, not far from the great ruins there; so that the
only reason for their not using it must have been ignorance of its qualities.

The Arabian Nights' story of the mountain which consisted of a single loadstone finds its literal
fulfilment in Mexico. Not far from Huetamo, on the road towards the Pacific, there is a conical
hill composed entirely of magnetic iron-ore. The blacksmiths in the neighbourhood, with no
other apparatus than their common forges, make it directly into wrought iron, which they use
for all ordinary purposes.

Now, in supposing civilization to be transmitted from one country to another, we must measure
it by the height of its lowest point, as we measure the strength of a chain by the strength
of the weakest link. The only civilization that the Mexicans can have received from the Old
World must have been from some people whose cutting implements were of sharp stone, consequently,
as we must conclude by analogy, some very barbarous and ignorant tribe.

From this point we must admit that the inhabitants of Mexico raised themselves, independently,
to the extraordinary degree of culture which distinguished them when Europeans first became
aware of their existence. The curious distribution of their knowledge shows plainly that they
found it for themselves, and did not receive it by transmission. We find a wonderful acquaintance
with astronomy, even to such details as the real cause of eclipses,--and the length of the
year given by intercalations of surprising accuracy; and, at the same time, no knowledge whatever
of the art of writing alphabetically, for their hieroglyphics are nothing but suggestive pictures.
They had earned the art of gardening to a high degree of perfection; but, though there were
two kinds of ox, and the buffalo at no great distance from them, in the countries they had
already passed through in their migration from the north, they had no idea of the employment
of beasts of burden, nor of the use of milk. They were a great trading people, and had money
of several kinds in general use, but the art of weighing was utterly unknown to them; while,
on the other hand, the Peruvians habitually used scales and weights, but had no idea of the
use of money.

To return to the stone knives; the Mexicans may very well have invented the art themselves,
as they did so many others; or they may have received it from the Old World. The things themselves
prove nothing either way.

The real proof of their having, at some early period, communicated with inhabitants of Europe
or Asia rests upon the traditions current among them, which are recorded by the early historians,
and confirmed by the Aztec picture-writings; and upon several extraordinary coincidences in
the signs used by them in reckoning astronomical cycles. Further on I shall allude to these
traditions.

On the whole, the most probable view of the origin of the Mexican tribes seems to be the one
ordinarily held, that they really came from the Old World, bringing with them several legends,
evidently the same as the histories recorded in the book of Genesis. This must have been, however,
at a time, when they were quite a barbarous, nomadic tribe; and we must regard their civilization
as of independent and far later growth.

We rode back through the woods to Guajalote, where the Mexican cook had made us a feast after
the manner of the country, and from her experience of foreigners had learnt to temper the chile
to our susceptible throats. Decidedly the Mexicans are not without ideas in the matter of cookery.
We stayed talking with the hospitable Don Alejandro and his sister till it was all but dark,
and then rode back to the Real, admiring the fire-flies that were darting about by thousands,
and listening to our companion's stories, which turned on robberies and murders---as stories
are apt to do in wild places after dark. But, save an escape from being robbed some twenty
years back, and the history of an Indian who was murdered just here by some of his own people,
for a few shillings he was taking home, our friend had not much reason to give for the two
huge horse-pistols ho carried, ready for action. His story of the death of a German engineer
in these parts is worth recording here. He was riding home one dark night, with a companion;
and, trusting to his knowledge of the country, tried a short cut through the woods, among the
old open mines near the Regla road. They had quite passed all the dangerous places, he thought,
so he gave his horse the spur, and plunged sheer down a shaft, hundreds of feet deep. His friend
pulled up in time, and got home safely.

We had one more day among the mines, and then went back to Pachuca, and next day to Mexico
in the Diligence. Everywhere the same hospitality and good-natured interest in us and our doings,
often shown by people with whom we had hardly the slightest acquaintance. Travelling here is
very different from what it is in a country on which the shadow of Murray's Handbook has fallen.

Almost all the interest Europe takes in Mexico, politically and commercially, turns upon the
exportation of silver. The gold, cochineal, and vanilla are of small account. It is the silver
dollars that pay for the Manchester goods, woollens, hardware, and many other things--those
ubiquitous boxes of sardines à l'huile, for instance. The Mexicans send to Europe some five
millions sterling in silver every year, that is, about twelve shillings apiece for all the
population. It is just about what their government spends annually in promoting the maladministration
of the country (and, looking at the matter in that point of view, they don't do their work
badly for the money). The income of the Mexican church is not quite so much, but not far off.

Baron Humboldt has expressed a hope that, at some future day, the Mexicans will turn their
attention to producing articles of real intrinsic value, and not those which are merely a sign
to represent it. He tells us, quite feelingly, how the Peace of Amiens stopped the working
of the iron-mines that had been opened when they could get no iron from abroad; for, when trade
was reopened, people preferred buying in Europe probably a better article at one-third the
price. He even hopes an enlightened government will encourage (that is, protect) more useful
industries. This was written fifty years ago, though. If an enlightened government will give
people some security for life and property, and make reasonable laws, and execute them,--leaving
men of business to find out for themselves how it suits them to employ their capital, it seems
probable that the balance between articles of real value and articles of imaginary value will
adjust itself, perhaps better than an enlightened government could do it. The Mexican government
has, unfortunately, followed Humboldt's advice in some respects. Cotton goods, woollens, and
hardware are thus protected. We may sum up the statistics of the Mexican cotton-manufacture
in a rough way thus,--taking merely into question the coarse cotton cloth called manta, and
used principally by the Indians. We may reckon roughly that for this article alone the Mexicans
have to pay a million sterling annually more than they could get it for if there were no protection-duty.
The only advantage anybody gets by this is that a certain part of the population is employed
in a manufacture unsuited to the country, and is thus taken away from work that may be done
profitably. The actual amount of money paid in wages to the class of operatives thus forced
into existence is much less than the amount which the country forfeits for the sake of making
its manta at home. Thus a sum actually amounting to a third of the annual taxation of the country
is thrown away upon this one article; and more goes the same way, to encourage similar unprofitable
manufactures.

With respect to the silver-mines, it is stated, on competent authority, that the northern States
of Mexico are very rich in silver; but there is scarcely any population, and that consisting
mostly of Red Indians who will not work. When this district becomes a territory of the United
States--as seems almost certain, this silver will, no doubt, be worked. The free Bamangwato's was the produce of their herds of cattle, the less-valued Ostrich
feathers, animal skins, ivory teeth, and one each of those animals which they or they hunted
for their vassals.

On 22 came two Boerwägen to the Marico district, which for various Victualien Sell brought.
In the following days I visited the heights to which I have a Matabeleschädel found and made trips in the Shoshone
valley upwards, visited on the opposite bank of the Shoshone-little river the rising picturesque
Monkey Rock, the nightly gathering place of the baboons and boarded some of the adjacent heights.
Because where the valley extends about the Monkey Rock, there were two Villages of living here
as refugees Makalakas and one of the abandoned building mission Hermann Burger Lord of the preacher
Schukenberg. Over the eastern town rose an isolated Table Mountain, whose summit held on the horses
during the autumn of pneumonia-time with good results were.

Our car was despite the pouring down rain with little interruption during the whole Duration of our
stay, always surrounded by visitors and workers, it developed a constant traffic of only once by
a small incident which my oxen in debt had been lost. The general mood of peace and gentle peace
of the population was one day suddenly disturbed by the news in an unexpected way, that enemy
Matabele were approaching. An unaccountable panic seized me now, the population: the king rushed
to me and borrowed one of my guns out - I had the most trouble getting it back later to gain
- he showed me his palladium, a manufactured from a lion claw amulet, the was to make him bulletproof,
and ordered the flight of the Bamangwato's dominant on the Shoshong Heights. The small belongings
hastily snatching, the unruly cattle and flocks of sheep are driven before, young and old fled to the
hills. The consternation and confusion reached the highest level, as some men startled out
of town on a hyena fired some shots, we thought the Matabele have
to have them on their heels.

The next day a Boer hunters arrived from the western Matabeleland, a son of the famous elephant
hunter Pit Jacobs, who resides at Tatiflusse in Shoshong one, the population of the total Groundlessness
enlightened her excitement. The appeasement of the hunter, however,
found no Faith and even the whites (traders) was preparing for their
protection.

Rev. Mackenzie advised me to leave as soon as possible, because I, if not personally, but I could
Have threaten danger.

As Sekhomo heard that I wanted to leave, he complained of the pain
that my decision to him ready, his friends called us and asked us
not to leave him in this distress.

I gave him one of his seven wives, a blue wool dress as a parting gift he replied with a tuft
of gray ostrich feathers.

In no other contact with the natives cities on this trip I was fortunate enough, a to obtain similar
amounts of the most varied ethnographic objects, just as here, what I had to goods in the car, I replaced
the clear displeasure of here, unfortunately local dealer for work of the natives from. I bought many assegai,
battle axes and some daggers and knives, and Kiri's poles, wooden pillow, pots and pans, wooden
Spoon carved cubes of different materials (Spell and Doctor tools), the most diverse Snuff boxes,
Kürbißgefäße, toiletries and Carosse ornaments, aprons and caps, Dolls and toys crafted from
clay. The most important items I purchased were Sekhomo's rain and war drum, a small fetish worked ivory,
Kiri's from rhinoceros horn, etc., also were not missing pipes. I exchanged many pallahs (Antelope)
manufacture leopard, lynx, caracal skins, etc., and let me charge it CAROSSE. Except for small
distinguishing features the work of the same Bamangwato's where all Betschuanastämme other.
The design of the houses is similar to the usual Barolongs that Huts themselves are built only smaller
and lighter, however, I met unsurpassed in size Grain vessels of unbaked clay. Not less in number
than my ethnographic new acquisitions were the natural history [1].

    
    
    1: the lizard stands a beautiful, metallic in Brown, dark green and
shiny blue, striped, sometimes also roam free through their frequency
and type of familiarity.

Before I go into the description of my journey back to the diamond fields, I will in the previous chapter
began communications about manners and customs of the Bechuanaland's be completed. The ordinary
pagan Bechuanaland usually has a woman, the more affluent sometimes two, three and six sub-chiefs,
kings or more, but not as many as It is used in Marutse empires.

The rich man makes the newly acquired wife a gift multiple small or large domestic animals.

When
entering a city raises the newcomer to the stones lying on his path and throws them into a
dense bush or places them in the crotch of the trees by the Expresses desire that he should achieve
the purpose of his trip. The fur, horns and meat of a sacred animal - the Deukergazelle in Bamangwato's,
the crocodile in the Bakwena's etc. - may are not affected, a sitting on the cottage owl is
regarded as a harbinger and the help of Linjaka claimed to cleanse
the body of the bird touched.

In addition, animals that commit sometimes slightly Bechuanaland terms of the ordinary, regarded
as dangerous and disastrous, and have killed, or by a Linjaka be cleaned. For example, a goat
jumping on the roof is pierced with the assegai. Whip with an animal, a cow, in a Viehkraal
considerable time with the tails of the Soil, it is not an ordinary cow more, it is "Tiba", a
bringer of evil, which the owner claims, disease, may even bring death. A rich man kills such
a Their once a poor man has it the white or a neighboring tribe to buy, it is this is the
only case in which the Bechuanaland sold his milk cows. No woman is permitted to touch the
milk cows and cattle at all, this is for the men, the boys and the old man and man, including the herding
of them, whereas with the Hottentottenfamilie allowed is that these
domestic animals are kept by the women.

As I mentioned, the form of government under the Bechuanaland's one in the sense constitutional, and
all the important orders and decisions must be of the Pitscho (the public Assembly will be
discussed), but in general, especially where the chiefs of the King affects this or that knows
how to win over - all decisions in an advance secretly done deal. As with other Banthuvölkern
also in the Bechuanas King (Morena or Koschier), the Supreme in all public functions, under
him are Among the chiefs of their own tribe or the refugees who implored his protection, and
the chiefs of other Betschuanastämme who had received permission to establish its territory, as
Chatsitsive and the chiefs of the western and Manupi Baharutse. These chiefs and sub chiefs live
in separate villages, more or less away from each other, but often border on each other and
form part of the residence. In each of these villages close to the farms of the chief, a small walled
compound with poles, round room, which takes the place of the Kotla, and in which the language
of the Kotla coming objects vorberathen. The king appoints the sub-chiefs and the people to
an important council, the royal messenger shall ever a tree branch in the small Kotla's - it
is the sign of the call's.

A council of war held in Parliament out of town - not as easy as be overheard in the Kotla
to such a meeting is called Letschulo, as well as that of the Linjaka's connection with the
summoning rain held hunts. These Deliberations, to which the inhabitants of each village under the leadership
of their sub-chiefs take part is a lot of talk, little things ventilated to exhaustion and
the Torrent of words no reins created.

Has the meeting constituted a judicial authority, it is usually the result regardless taken,
whether the culprit was a popular person at court or not, in the first case is often a murder
with impunity. Someone has made himself guilty of theft, so hurry messenger of the king through
the city and proclaimed the same, and the royal pain of sentence imposed on the thief. Usually
affects the mere threat and in the dark of night the thief the stolen property to a public place
deponiren hurry to. Often, however, the Linjaka's called to help in eruiren a thief, they operate
in such cases various tricks or merely throw the dice, succeeds in the former case they sometimes
to identify the thief. An often-used library is the following: After a thorough investigation
of the case, the fact suspects summoned by the king's messengers in the Kotla. The Linjaka puts
them in a circle around and after it in the words of the cow, "etc. stolen must die today, "walked
around in circles several times, he makes a pot of warm corn or Kornmehlbrei them produce. He now
draws a wooden spoon full of porridge and speaks to it. "The thief, who devours this pulp will die
today," and repeated these words as often as any of the bystanders,
he pushes a spoonful into his mouth.

After he had done his work, he watches every precisely, then throws the dice and ivory with the
words: "I have found the thief, he rises to the group of defendants To work around. He orders
all since then to open your mouth and see, all have up to two swallowed the broth, but these
two, these are the thieves, for fear of the death of the Slurry retained in the mouth in order
to spit it in the low moments in secret. The eruirte Thief must replace two to four times the
theft. A repeated thieves are caught in the act the fingers, an inveterate habit of thieves,
the whole hand scalded. The murder is usually punished by death, but it is also permissible to
look through a blood money the penalty ransom, the articles (cattle,
etc.) which awarded the penalty tantamount to submit to the next of
kin of the deceased are.

At the time when there was still Matscheng in Shoshong, occurred the case that a man committed
out of greed, a brother of murder. His old father was the older brother of the largest Part of
his property, where, and there decided the younger, just the brother discard in order to have
the whole thing. "Brother, did not you tell the father that the Linjaka (Doctor) needs a monkey fur
to give its members the power again? I'm going today on that hill there, "- he pointed to the isolated
near the town of Franz Josef in the valley of the rising, rocky cone - in order to "shoot a monkey
was" The man addressed it his duty to go along. and followed his brother. At the foot of one
hour's walk distant hill, the applicant proposed success of the safe half ago to begin the hunt
from two opposite sides, whereupon the unsuspecting brother was also referred. An old woman
who collected them near fruits, and what the behavior of the two gunmen struck with rifles,
crept closer and carefully followed the same after one. already crept into the center of the height
of the younger, instead of straight climb, right around the hill until he caught sight of his brother
and then shot him down. In the city, he told with great dismay that his brother considered
for a monkey and have killed, but the old woman reported the Matscheng true facts and instead of coming
into possession of the inheritance was the culprit on Matschengs
Command led to the Thatort here and shot with the rifles of the slain
brother.

Among the customs to be mentioned there are some us of the old Mosaic law and remember that
we more or less all I know, belonging to the Banthufamilie Strains are vividly [1] Above all, the
circumcision (circumcision). It is the most important ceremony for the pagan Bechuanaland, without
which the youth of his companions neither is recognized as a man nor the woman marriageable.
But is not this ceremony together with the stage of puberty - as we did in other tribes, such
as in the Matongas and Maschukulumbe and their custom of observing the Zähneausbrechens - it
is simply exercised to start the series of resilience, which must undergo a boy, to once when
he became man, also carry the title of Mona and Ra can. The ceremony is Boguera and is performed
on the boy after her ninth birthday. Depending on the strength of the strain it is done every two to
five years and is one of the largest celebrations in the cities. coated with a lime solution
to go around this time to volunteer reporting or forced boys accompanied the girls only manufactured
from cane pieces Bands or aprons Genettaschwanz clothed, they too are on the chest and face similar
to the boys whitewashed. The ceremony will be outside the city in the former of old men, the girls
run by old women.

    
    1: I refer the reader to the two legends of the northern (Montsua's)
Barolongs.

There was just celebrated at the time of my visit to the Shoshong Boguera, I had the opportunity to
to learn about the ceremony in detail. Singing drag the boys and girls of the jugglers accompanied
from the city. Here are the boys in the male presence, the girls are in female Work and duties
and inform them immediately heavy work, such as the wearing of large Bundles of wood, fetching
water etc. imposed, which, if they perform mostly a monotonous voice
. Intone In its whitewashing and hung with the rattling reed bands,
grant this forms a no less fantastic than comical sight. A very
common course had been, when a pronunciamiento had been made anywhere against the then existing
government, and a revolutionary army had been raised, for an amalgamation to take place between
the two forces; intrigue and bribery and mutual disinclination to fight bringing matters to
this peaceful kind of settlement. In this case, it was usual for the rebel officers to retain
their self-conferred dignities.

I think this body of soldierless officers is one of the most troublesome political elements
at work in the Republic. The political agitators are mostly among them; and it is they, more
than any other class, who are continually stirring up factions and making pronunciamientos
(what a pleasant thing it is that we have never had to make an English word for "pronunciamiento").
Several times, efforts have been made to reduce the Army List to decent proportions, but a
fresh crop always springs up.

In the "lowest depth" of mismanagement to which Mexican military affairs have sunk, the newspapers
still triumphantly refer to countries which surpass them in this respect, and, at the time
of our arrival, were citing the statistics of the Peruvian Republic, where there are a general
and twenty officers to every sixty soldiers, and as many naval officers as seamen.

These officers are not subject to the civil administration at all, whatever they may do. They
have their fuero, their private charter, and are only amenable to their own tribunals, just
as the clergy are to theirs. To the ill effects of the presence of such armies and such officers
in the country, we must add the continual interruptions to commerce arising from the distracted
state of the republic, and the uncertain tenure by which every one holds his property, not
to say his life; and this, in its effect on the morale of the whole country, is worse than
the positive suffering they inflict. So much for soldiering, for the present. We leave the
President trying, with the aid of his Congress, to organize the government, and set things
straight generally. This August assembly is selected from the people by universal suffrage,
in the most approved manner, and ought to be a very important and useful body, but unfortunately
can do nothing but talk and issue decrees, which no one else cares about.

In consequence of the alarming increase of highway-robbery, steps are taken to diminish the
evil. It is made lawful to punish such offenders on the spot, by Lynch law. This is all. You
may do justice on him when caught, but really you must catch him yourself. Sober citizens are
even regretting the days of Santa Ana (recollect, I speak now of 1856, and they might regret
him still more in 1860.) He was a great scoundrel, it is true; but he sent down detachments
of soldiery to where the robbers practised their profession, and garotted them in pairs, till
the roads were as safe as ours are in England. A President who sells states and pockets the
money may have even that forgiven him in consideration of roads kept free from robbers, and
some attempt at an effectual police. There is a lesson in this for Mexican rulers.

The Congress professed to be hard at work cleaning out the Augean stable of laws, rescripts,
and proclamations, and making a working constitution. We went to see them one day, and heard
talking going on, but it all came to nothing. Of one thing we may be quite sure, that if this
unlucky country ever does get set straight, it will not be done by a Mexican Congress sitting
and cackling over it.

On our return from the Real, we spent two days at the house of an English friend at Tisapán,
at the edge of the great Pedrigal, or lava-field, which lies south of the capital. It was across
this lava-field that a part of the American army marched in '47, and defeated a division of
the Mexican forces encamped at Contrevas. On the same day the American army attacked the Mexicans
who held a strongly fortified position at Churubusco, some four miles nearer Mexico, and routed
the main army there. They beat them again at Molino del Rey, carried the hill of Chapultepec
by storm, and then entered the city without meeting with further resistance; though the Mexicans,
after they had formally yielded possession of the city, disgraced themselves by assassinating
stray Americans, stabbing them in the streets, and lazoing them from the tops of the low mud
houses in the suburbs.

An acquaintance of ours in Mexico met some American soldiers, with a corporal, in the street
close to his house, and asked them in. Presently the corporal sent one of the men off into
the next street to execute some commission; but half an hour elapsed, and the man not returning,
the corporal went out to see what was the matter. He came back presently, and remarked that
some of those cursed Mexicans had stabbed the man as he was turning the corner of the street,
and left him lying there. "So," said the corporal, "I may as well finish his brandy and water
for him;" he did so accordingly, and the men went home to their quarters.

The American soldiers were, as one may imagine, a rough lot. Only the smaller part of them
were born Americans, the rest were emigrants from Europe; to judge by what we heard of them--both
in the States and in Mexico--the very refuse of all the scoundrels in the Republic; but they
were well officered, and rigid discipline was maintained. So effectually were they kept in
order, that the Mexicans confessed that it was a smaller evil to have the enemy's forces marching
through the country, than their own army.

An elaborate account of the American invasion is given in Mayer's 'Mexico.' To those who do
not care for details of military operations, there are still points of interest in the history.
That ten thousand Americans should have been able to get through the mountain-passes, and to
reach the capital at all, is an astonishing thing; and after that, their successes in the valley
of Mexico follow as a matter of course. They could never have crossed the mountains but for
a combination of circumstances.

The inhabitants generally displayed the most entire indifference; possibly preferring to sell
their provisions to the Americans, instead of being robbed of them by their own countrymen.
Add to this, that the Mexican officers showed themselves grossly ignorant of the art of war;
and that the soldiers, though they do not seem to have been deficient in courage, were badly
drilled and insubordinate. One would not have wondered at the army being in such a condition---in
a country that had long been in a state of profound peace; but in Mexico a standing army had
been maintained for years, at a great expense, and continual civil wars ought to have given
people some ideas about soldiering. We may judge, from the events of this war, that Mexico
might be kept in good order by a small number of American troops. The mere holding of the country
is not the greatest difficulty in the question of American annexation.

One thing that struck our friends at Tisapán, among their experiences of the war, was the number
of dead bodies of women and children that were found on the battle-fields. A crowd of women
follow close in the rear of a Mexican army; almost every soldier having some woman who belongs
to him, and who carries a heavy load of Indian corn and babies, and cooks tortillas for her
lord and master. The number of these poor creatures who perished in the war was very great.

We spent much of our time at Tisapán in collecting plants, and exploring the lava-field, and
the cañada, or ravine, that leads up into the mountains that skirt the valley of Mexico. I
recollect one interesting spot we came to in riding through the pine-forest on the northern
slope of the mountains, where the course of a torrent, now dry, ran along a mere narrow trench
in the hard porphyritic rock, some ten or fifteen feet wide, until it had suddenly entered
a bed of gravel, where it had hollowed out a vast ravine, four hundred feet wide and two hundred
deep, the inlet of the water being, in proportion, as small as the pipe that serves to fill
a cistern.

Such places are common enough in the south of Europe, but seldom on so grand a scale as one
finds them in this country, where the floods come down from the hills with astounding suddenness
and violence. Mr. L. had experience of this one day, when he had got inside his waterwheel,
to inspect its condition, the water being securely shut off, as he thought. However, an aversada--one
of these sudden freshets--came down, quite without notice; and enough water got into the channel
to set the wheel going, so as to afford its proprietor a very curious and exciting ride, after
the manner of a squirrel in a revolving cage, until the people succeeded in drawing off the water.

It was after our return from Tisapán that we paid a visit to Our Lady of Guadalupe, rather
an important personage in the history of Mexican church-matters. The way lies past Santo Domingo,
the church of the Holy Office, and down a long street where live the purveyors of all things
for the muleteers. Here one may buy mats, ropes, pack-saddles--which the arrieros delight to
have ornamented with fanciful designs and inscriptions, lazos, and many other things of the
same kind. Passing out through the city-gate, we ride along a straight causeway, which extends
to Guadalupe. A dull road enough in itself, but the interminable strings of mules and donkeys,
bringing in pig-skins full of pulque, are worth seeing for once; and the Indians, trudging
out and in with their various commodities, are highly picturesque.

On a building at the side of the causeway we notice "Estación de Méjico" (Mexico Station) painted
in large letters. As far as we could observe, this very suggestive sign-board is the whole
plant of the Railway Company at this end of the line. A range of hills ends abruptly in the
plain, at a place which the Indians called Tepeyacac, "end of the hill" (literally "at the
hill's nose"). Our causeway leads to this spot; and there, at the foot and up the slope of
the hill, are built the great cathedral and other churches and chapels, altogether a vast and
imposing collection of buildings; and round these a considerable town has grown up, for this
is the great place of pilgrimage in the country.

The Spaniards had brought a miraculous picture with them, Nuestra Señora de Remedios, which
is still in the country, and many pilgrims visit it; but Our Lady of Guadalupe is a native
Mexican, and decidedly holds the first rank in the veneration of the people.

In the great church there is a picture mounted in a gold frame of great value. Its distance
from the altar-rails, and the pane of glass which covers it, prevent one's seeing it very well.
This was the more unfortunate, as, according to my history, the picture is in itself evidently
of miraculous origin, for the best artists are agreed that no human hand could imitate the
drawing or the colour! It appears that the Aztecs, long before the arrival of the Spaniards,
had been in the habit of worshipping--in this very place--a goddess, who was known as Teotenantzin,
"mother-god," or Tonantzin, "our mother." Ten years after the Conquest, a certain converted
Indian, Juan Diego (John James) by name, was passing that way, and to him appeared the Virgin
Mary. She told him to go to the bishop, and tell him to build her a temple on the place where
she stood, giving him a lapful of flowers as a token. When the flowers were poured out of the
garment, in presence of the bishop, the miraculous picture appeared underneath, painted on
the apron itself. The bishop accepted the miracle with great unction; the temple was built,
and the miraculous image duly installed in it. Its name of "Santa Maria de Guadalupe," was
not, as one might imagine, taken from the Madonna of that name in Spain (of course not!), but
was communicated by Our Lady herself to another converted Indian. She told him that her title
was to be Santa Maria de Tequatlanopeuh, "Saint Mary of the rocky hill," of which hard word
the Spaniards made "Guadalupe,"--just as they had turned Quauhnahuac into Cuernavaca, and Quauhaxallan
into Guadalajara, substituting the nearest word of Spanish form for the unpronounceable Mexican
names. This at least is the ingenious explanation given by my author, the Bachelor Tanco, Professor
of the Aztec language, and of Astrology, in the University of Mexico, in the year 1666. The
bishop who authenticated the miracle was no less a person than Fray Juan de Zumarraga, whose
name is well known in Mexican history, for it was he who collected together all the Aztec picture-writings
that he could find, "quite a mountain of them," say the chroniclers, and made a solemn bonfire
of them in the great square of Tlatelolco. The miracles worked by the Virgin of Guadalupe,
and by copies of it, are innumerable; and the faith which the lower orders of Mexicans and
the Indians have in it is boundless. The arid Branches
which covered the ground everywhere, bent beneath our feet, and about us aufgestoert of the
noise, the raven flew from their nests and rustled with the wings in the leaves. Anne Lene went
silent and closed in on my side, and their thoughts want to be there, from which I so ardently
wished to recall .-- We were to Graft come down, which was also the limit of the actual court.

Among
the trees, which were beyond the river, saw it as a dark Setting
out into the moonlit landscape out in whatever now and then the individual
farmsteads such nebulae sticking out of the plane.

It was so quiet you heard nothing but the rustle the reeds, which stood in the trenches. "Look,
Anne Lene," I said, "the world is sleeping - as beautiful she is! "

"Yes, Marx," she replied softly, "and you're still so young!"

"Are you not more?"

She shook her head slowly. "Come," she said, "it is wet." - And we went on through a dilapidated
fence around the side of the house lying vegetable garden and along the bottom of the water
after the Boskettpartien that lay before the house. Here were we on our old playground, it was
still the same bushes, between which we once gone astray were as children, only their branches
were still lower than it was in their way. We walked along the wide walkways next to the graft,
which is in the shade of the trees are wide and black dragged on our side. We heard the faint
plucking of the cattle, which on the other side the fen grazing in the moonlight, and over there
by the planting pipe sounded forth the chirping the tube sparrow, the little fellows watch
night. But soon I just listened to the noise the little feet that walked some distance in front
of me so easily.

In this secret sounds of the night suddenly invaded by the area of
​​the dike of her shrill Reputation of a seabird, which then drove
up through the air. They are allowed to have lotteries, and make
something handsome out of them; and they even sell medals and prints of their patroness, which
have great powers. You may have plenary indulgence in the hour of death for sixpence or less.
We drank of the water of the chalybeate spring, bought sacred lottery-tickets, which turned
out blanks, and tickets for indulgences, which, I greatly fear, will not prove more valuable;
and so rode home along the dusty causeway to breakfast.

As means of learning what sort of books the poorer classes in Mexico preferred, we overhauled
with great diligence the book-stalls, of which there are a few, especially under the arcades
(Portales) near the great square. The Mexican public have not much cheap literature to read;
and the scanty list of such popular works is half filled with Our Lady of Guadalupe, and other
miracle-books of the same kind. Father Ripalda's Catechism has a large circulation, and is
apparently the one in general use in the country. Zavala speaks of this catechism as containing
the maxims of blind obedience to king and pope; but my more modern edition has scarcely anything
to say about the Pope, and nothing at all about the government. Of late years, indeed, the
Pope has not counted for much, politically, in Mexico; and on one occasion his Holiness found,
when he tried to interfere about church-benefices, that his authority was rather nominal than
real. On the whole, nothing in the Catechism struck me so much as the multiplication-table,
which, to my unspeakable astonishment, turned up in the middle of the book; a table of fractions
followed; and then it began again with the Holy Trinity.

To continue our catalogue; there are the almanacks, which contain rules for foretelling the
weather by the moon's quarters, but none of the other fooleries which we find in those that
circulate in England among the less educated classes. I took me
to keep in the valley at all, but to be driven for three miles beyond, to avoid being harassed.
As we were about the first third of the slope leading Spruit achieved had made me the whip next to
the companion to the border Gert "Guardian" of the attention in the bushes on the right hand
lying robbery homestead. One of the farmers stood under a tree on the road and peered out. When
we come close to about 300 steps were, he disappeared suddenly and ran buscheinwärts to the approach
of a "pinch to report."

We imagined that had driven as the team of Gert set itself into a trot, the threat of be happy
to escape danger, and could not contain, whether the successful List
break into loud laughter. The last item in the list comprises translations,
principally of French novels, those being preferred in which the agony is "piled up" to the
highest point. German literature is represented by the "Sorrows of Werter." Of course, "Uncle
Tom's Cabin" is widely circulated here, as it is everywhere in countries not given to the "particular
vanity" attacked in it.

One need hardly say that both literature and education are at a very low ebb in Mexico. Referring
to Tejada again, I find that he reckons that in the capital, out of a population of 185,000,
there are 12,000 scholars at primary schools; but of course, as in other countries, a large
proportion of these children attend so irregularly that they can hardly learn anything. For
the country generally, he estimates one child receiving instruction out of thirty-seven inhabitants,
a very significant piece of statistics. Efforts are being made, especially in the capital,
to raise the population out of this state. Mr. Christy took much trouble in investigating the
subject, with the assistance of our friend Don José Miguel Cervantes, the head of the Ayuntamiento,
or Municipal Council. This gentleman, with a few others, has been doing much up-hill work of
this kind for years past, establishing schools, and trying to make head against the opposition
of the priests and the indifference of the people, as yet with but small success.

It seems hard to be always attacking the Roman Catholic clergy, but of one thing we cannot
remain in doubt,--that their influence has had more to do than anything else with the doleful
ignorance which reigns supreme in Mexico. For centuries they had the education of the country
in their hands, and even at this day they retain the greater share of it. The training which
the priests themselves receive will therefore give one some idea of what they teach their scholars.
Unluckily, their course of instruction was stereotyped ages ago, when learned men devoted themselves
to writing huge books on divinity, casuistry, logic, and metaphysics; concealing their ignorance
of facts under an affectation of wisdom and clouds of long words; demonstrating how many millions
of angels could dance on a needle's point; writing treatises "de omni re scibili," and on a
good many things unknowable also; and teaching their admiring scholars the art of building
up sham arguments on any subject, whether they know anything about it or not. This is a very
vicious system of training for a man's mind, the more especially when it is supposed to set
him up with a stock of superior knowledge; and this is what the Roman Catholic clergy have
been learning, generation after generation, in Mexico and elsewhere. Of course, there are plenty
of exceptions, particularly among the higher clergy; but, so far as I have been able to ascertain,
education in clerical schools has generally been of this kind. It is instinctive to talk a
little, as one occasionally finds an opportunity of doing, to some youth just out of these
colleges. I recollect speaking to a young man who had just left the Seminario of Mexico, where
he had been through a long course of theology and philosophy. He was astonished to hear that
bull-fighting and colearing were not universally practised in Europe; and, when his father
began to question me about the Crimean war, the young gentleman's remarks showed that he had
not the faintest idea where England and France were, nor how far they were from one another.

I happened, not long ago, to visit a celebrated monastic college in South Italy, where they
educated, not ordinary mortals, but only young men of noble birth; and here I took particular
care in inspecting the library, judging that, though the scholars need not learn all that was
there, yet that no department of knowledge would be taught there that was not represented on
the library-shelves. 

"Have you," he asked, turning to Cappei, "since their stay here with people in France been in
contact and corresponded with the same? "

"I have no connection there," said Cappei, "as the one with my fiancee, which to be allowed
to visit, I just asked for permission, I have corresponded with anyone,
as get with it, but to my deep sorrow no news of her.

"

The officer made several written sheets from the present Actenstück
him and asked, as he waved Cappei to approach closer.

"Do you know these letters?"

The young man looked at the papers, he flinched, almost convulsive Tremor shook his form.

"It's the letters I wrote to my bride," he cried in a trembling voice.

"They recognize, therefore, that these letters are written by your
hand?"

"Certainly," said Cappei, the gaze continually focused on the letter which he a believed to have
been sent, and after another in which he becomes more pressing and longing had asked for news.

"You
say then," said the official, "that these letters to a girl really
young addressed, and that the content is the same no other meaning
than that which the Words to express.

"

"What other purpose could he have?"

Said Cappei, horror standing before this enigma that is there suddenly stood before him.

"We have examples," the official said, "that seemingly innocuous words before another have prearranged
meaning, or that they set out by paper cut-outs in other Order appear. But that will be found,
"he continued.

Then he took some other leaves and stopped in front of them the young man.

"Do you know this handwriting?"

"No," said Cappei, completely foreign to him, looking documents.

"Nevertheless," the official said, "these letters have arrived at your address, and contain very specific
and compromittirende questions about jobs and Truppendislocationen to be political relations message.
You will see that all this very suspicious and that the suspicion
resting upon you by your desire now to travel to France can only be
strengthened.

I have to police the result of my observation, to which me my duty towards you, forced now passed
to the coroner and You can make only point out that an open confession only to improve your
situation can - if you are not able to give at once a sufficient explanation. "

The young man was still staring motionless on the submitted papers.

"Do these letters a signature?" He asked.

"No," the official said, "such correspondences usually can not be
signed because the Sender to the receiver is well known enough, "he
added with a slight ironic smile.

"My God, it should be possible," said Cappei by a fiery redness of his face flew over "I remember
having once read a note from this Vergie - it should be possible be - it should - "

"Young man," the officer said with a serious tone, through sound through
which a certain pity, I will believe that you are misled, and that
your loyalty to your King of unscrupulous agents is abused.

Tell openly and honestly all you can about the Thing to know - I
repeat, it is the only way to protect you against sharp punishment .

Protect
"Mr. Stewart," Cappei cried in despairing tone, "I must believe that
here is a vile Wickedness has been committed in order to separate
myself from my beloved. I swear I am know of nothing - I am conscious
of no guilt, I have no idea about these letters, and the letter from
me, you have mentioned going on, no hidden meaning. "

The officials
seemed concerned by the tone of truth in the words of the young man.

"I
want to do in your own interest," he said, "that it is as you say,
and that you Can prove their innocence. However, the Indicier Gravír
to appear, and the agitation, at issue here is, are dangerous to the
state, than that I can justify it, to leave in freedom. I will however
take orders that you are treated well, and ensure that your case will
be investigated as soon as possible. Think carefully about Everything
after and keep in mind that the greatest candor is the best in your
situation.

Run the prisoners down, "he said, turning to the ushers.

In
sullen silence, the young man had to in a wing of the office building
located Arrest Local lead. Otherwise, we must suppose that the Mexicans, since the
Spanish Conquest, introduced a new invention; which is not easy to believe.

We had first to get out of the canal, and fairly out into the lake. This was the more desirable,
as the canal is one of the drains of the city, an office that it fills badly enough, seeing
that there is scarcely any fall of water from the lower quarters of the city to the lake. I
never saw water-snakes in numbers to compare with those in the canal, and by the side of it.
They were swimming in the water, wriggling in and out; and on the banks they were writhing
in heaps, like our passengers forward. Two of our crew tow us along, and we are soon clear
of the canal, and of the salt-swamp that extends on both sides of it, where the bottom of the
lake was in old times. Once fairly out, we look round us. We see Mexico from a new point of
view, and begin to understand why the Spaniards called it the Venice of the New World. Even
now, though the lake is so much smaller than it was then, the city, with its domes and battlemented
roofs, seems to rise from the water itself, for the intervening flat is soon foreshortened
into nothing. At the present moment it is evident that the level of the lake is much higher
than usual. A little way off, on our right, is the Peñón de los Baños--"the rock of baths"--a
porphyritic hill forced up by volcanic agency, where there are hot springs. It is generally
possible to reach this hill by land, but the water is now so high that the rock has become
an island as it used to be.

When the first two brigantines were launched on the Lake of Tezcuco by the Spaniards, Cortes
took Montezuma with him to sail upon the lake, soon leaving the Aztec canoes far behind. They
went to a Peñón or rocky hill where Montezuma preserved game for his own hunting, and not even
the highest nobility were allowed to hunt there on pain of death. The Spaniards had a regular
battue there; killing deer, hares, and rabbits till they were tired. This Peñón may have been
the Peñón de los Baños which we are just passing, but was more probably a similar hill a little
further off, of larger extent, now fortified and known as El Peñón, the Hill. Both were in
those days complete islands at some distance from the shore.

Now that we are out of the canal, our Indians begin to pole us along, thrusting their long
poles to the bottom of the shallow lake, and walking on two narrow planks which extend along
the sides of the canoe from the prow to the middle point. Four walk on each plank, each man
throwing up his pole as he gets to the end, and running back up the middle to begin again at
the prow. The dexterity with which they swing the poles about, and keep them out of each other's
way, is wonderful; and, as seen from our end of the canoe, looks like a kind of exaggerated
quarter-staff playing, only nobody is ever hit.

The great peculiarity of the lake of Tezcuco is that it is a salt lake, containing much salt
and carbonate of soda. The water is quite brackish and undrinkable. How it has come to be so
is plain enough. The streams from the surrounding mountains bring down salt and soda in solution,
derived from the decomposed porphyry; and as the water of the lake is not drained off into
the sea, but evaporates, the solid constituents are left to accumulate in the lake.

In England, I think, we have no example of this; but the Dead Sea, the Caspian, the Great Salt
Lake of Utah, and even the Mediterranean, have various salts accumulated in solution in the
same way. It seems to me, that, by taking into account the proportion of soluble material contained
in the water that flows down from the mountains, the probable quantity of water that flows
down in the year, and the proportion of salt in the lake itself, some vague guess might be
made as to the time this state of things has been lasting. I have no data, unfortunately, even
for such a rough calculation as this, or I should like to try it.

In spite of the splendid climate, a great portion of the Valley of Mexico is anything but fertile;
for the soil is impregnated with salt and soda, which in many places are so abundant as to
form, when the water evaporates, a white efflorescence on the ground, which is called tequesquite,
and regularly collected by the Indians. Some of it is stopped on its way down from the higher
ground, by the evaporation of the water that was carrying it; and some is left by the lake
itself, in its frequent floodings of the ground in its neighbourhood. So small is the difference
of level between the lake and the plain that surrounds it, that the slightest rise in the height
of the water makes an immense difference in the size of the lake; and even a strong wind will
drive the water over great tracts of ground, from which it retires when the gale ceases. It
must have been this, or something similar, that set Cortes upon writing home to Spain that
the lakes were like inland seas, and even had tides like the ocean. Of course, this impregnation
with salts is ruinous to the soil, which will produce nothing in such places but tufts of coarse
grass; and the shores of the lake are the most dismal districts one can imagine. All the lakes,
however, are not so salt as Tezcuco; Chalco, for instance, is a fresh-water lake, and there
the fertility of the shores is very great, as I have already had occasion to notice.

As soon as the novelty of this kind of travelling had worn off, we began to find it dull, and
retired under our awning to breakfast and bitter beer; which latter luxury, thanks to a suitable
climate and an English brewer, is very well understood in Mexico, and is even accepted as a
great institution by the Mexicans themselves.

We were just getting into a drowsy state, when an unusual bustle among the crew brought us
out of our den, and we found that three hours of assiduous poling had taken us half-way across
the lake, just six miles--a good test of the value of the Aztec system of navigation. Here
was a wooden cross set up in the water; and here, from time out of mind, the boatmen have been
used to sing a little hymn to the Madonna, by whose favour we had got so far, and hoped to
get safe to the end of our voyage. Very well they sang it too, and the scene was as striking
as it was unexpected to us. It seemed to us, however, to be making a great matter of crossing
a piece of water only a few feet deep; but Mr. Millard assured us, that when a sudden gale
came on, it was a particularly unpleasant place to be afloat in a Mexican canoe, which, being
flat-bottomed, has no hold at all on the water, and from its shape is quite unmanageable in
a wind. He himself was once caught in this way, and kept out all night, with a "heavy sea"
on the lake, the boat drifting helplessly, and threatening to overturn every moment, and that
in places where the water was quite deep enough to drown them all. The Indians lost their heads
entirely, and throwing down their poles fell on their knees, and joined in the chorus with
the women and children and the rest of the helpless brown people, beating their breasts, and
presenting medals and prints of our Lady of Guadalupe to each wave as it dashed into them.

More poling across the lake, and then another little canal, also constructed since the diminishing
of the water of the lake (which once came close to the city), and along which our Indians towed
us. Then came a short ride, which brought us to the Casa Grande, where Mrs. Bowring received
us with overflowing hospitality. We went off presently into the town, to see the glassworks.
In a country where all things imported have to be carried in rough waggons, or on mules' backs,
and over bad roads, it would be hard if it did not pay to make glass; and, accordingly, we
found the works in full operation. The soda is produced at Mr. Bowling's works close by, the
fuel is charcoal from the mountains, and for sand they have a substitute, which I never heard
of or saw anywhere else. It seems that a short distance from Tezcuco there is a deposit of
hydrated silica, which is brought down in great blocks by the Indians; and this, when calcined,
answers the purpose perfectly, as there is scarcely any iron in it. In its natural state it
resembles beeswax in colour.

It is worth while to describe the Casa Grande, which is strikingly different from our European
notions of the "great house" of the village. As we enter by the gate, we find ourselves in
a patio--an open quadrangle surrounded by a covered walk--a cloister in fact, into which open
the rooms inhabited by the family. The second quadrangle, which opens into the first, is devoted
to stables, kitchen, &c. The outer wall which surrounds the whole is very thick, and the entire
building is built of mud bricks baked in the sun, and has no upper storey at all. It is a Pompeian
house on a large scale, and suits the climate perfectly. The Aztec palaces we read so much
of were built in just the same way. The roofs slope inwards from the sides of the quadrangle,
and drain into the open space in the middle. One afternoon, a tremendous tropical rain-storm
showed us how necessary it was to have the covered walk round the quadrangle raised considerably
above this open square in the middle, which a few minutes of such rain converted into a pond.

As for ourselves, we spent many very pleasant days at the Casa Grande, and thoroughly approved
of the arrangement of the house, except that the four corners of the patio were provokingly
alike, and the doors of the rooms also, so that we were as much bothered as the captain of
the forty thieves to find our own doors, or any door except Mr. Millard's, whose name was indicated--with
more regard to pronunciation than spelling--with a 1 and nine 0's chalked on it.

In spite of a late evening spent in very pleasant society, we were up early next morning, ready
for an excursion to the Pyramids of Teotihuacán, some sixteen miles off, or so, under the guidance
of one of Mr. Bowring's men. The road lies through the plain, between great plantations of
magueys, for this is the most renowned district in the Republic for the size of its aloes,
and the quality of the pulque that is made from them. 

    I was more than one waiting for me. My parents still
lived on the first floor of the same house. I climbed the
stairs and immediately, a second up to the floor space,
where Grandmother always on had held up best. I initially
wanted to her and only then, father, mother and siblings. Then
I saw the few things they had owned, but she even was not
there. There stood her chest, with blue and yellow Flowers
painted. It was locked, the key deducted. And there stood
her bedstead; it was empty. I hurried down into the
living room. Since the parents were sitting. The Sisters were
missing. That was Zartgefuehl. They had meant that parents
were before. I do not and greeted asked where Grandmother
was. "Dead - - dead -" was the reply. "When?" "Already last
year." As I sank into the chair and laid his head and
arms on the table. She was dead! You had me withheld
to protect me, to my captivity not to complicate.
That was pretty good thought, but now it hit me so much
heavier. She was not actually been sick, she was the only way
had vanished, to grief and sorrow - - - me!

It took a long time before I raised my head again,
to greet the parents now. They were terrified.

    You told me later, my face had looked worse than that
of a corpse. The siblings were added. They were glad
of the reunion, but she looked at me so strange, it's so shy.
This was nothing more than the reflection of my own face.
I did indeed give me the greatest difficulty, but I was able
to blow me had just met, do not hide it completely. I
just wanted to know from Grandmother, now no more, and
I was told. She had spoken very much about me but never
a word that would have me have to hurt, if I had been there.
And she had never complained or even cried. She said now she
knows that I was one of those souls who from their birth to
the wrong Body be thrown to be destroyed there. Now she is convinced,
that I forged through the ghost would have to order all
earthly torments endured to leave me. But she knows I will
not cry, I will take, what to wear, and me the way to Dschinistan
[sic] . Force The closer they came to death, the more they
lived only its exclusive and Maerchenwelt the more exclusive
they spoke only of me. To the last day they told that the longest
late Mr. Kantor tonight was with her. He was our neighbor.
Both Houses met with each other. Because it had not suddenly
in the dark the wall done deal, and it has become
clear, but not in a normal light, but of one, which she had
never seen before. illuminated by him, Kantor appeared to
be the Lord. He have just out seeing as it was when he
was still alive. He is slow to come to her bedside, she
had a friendly smile Greetings, as was always his
way, and then told that they should not even worry about
me; I could probably topple like any other lie, but not
remain, it would indeed make me hard, but achieved I certainly
my goal. After that, he nodded friendly again, and went
as slowly as he had come, back to the Mauerluecke.
She completed behind him. The light disappeared and it was
again dark.

As she tells it, it was as if a part of that strange, her
hitherto unknown light left on her face was, and it was also
then still later, when she had closed her eyes and was not
breathing. Her death was a gentle, a peaceful, have a blessed,
but I was not peacefully and happily did not feel as
I was of told him. It appeared to accusations in me, but
no accusations, which are only thoughts, as in other People
who are not of the same assessment as I do accusations more essential
but much, much more compact I kind she saw in me, and I heard what
they said, every word, really, every word!

    The were not thought, but forms, real nature, not
the least identity seemed to have with me and were identical
anyway. What a mystery! But what an unusual, terribly frightening
rate puzzle! You resembled those screaming in me, dark
figures from earlier, that I - - - my God, no I had
thought of them, they were again, quite so, I was then forced
them into my Inside to see and hear. I heard their voices
as clearly as if they stood in front of me and in place
the parents and siblings speak with me. And they remained.
They went, as I lay down with me To sleep. But she did not
sleep and did not let me To sleep. It began in the former
misery, the former Torture, the former struggle with
incomprehensible forces, which were more dangerous than
I see absolutely no could, if they were parts of me or not.
You seemed to be, for she knew every one of my Thoughts before
he even came to me to consciousness. And yet they could belong
to me quite impossible, because what they wanted, almost always
the opposite of my intention was. I had with my past
completed. Lying in front of me part of my Life should
be completely different than the one behind which I had it.
These votes were, however, forced me to zurueckzuzerren
all violence in the past. You required as before, that I
should take revenge. Now certainly avenge me, for the
lost in prison, delicious time! They grew louder by the
day, I but I leaned against it, I pretended I had nothing
do not listen. But that was even with the largest Of force not
longer than most, only a few Days endure. However, I
visited some Publishers, with you about the publication
of the prisons written manuscripts to negotiate. Here it turned
out that during this, my Absence of the inner voices
were silent all the more the further I am away from home,
and again were more clearly, the more I her again approached.
It was as if these dark figures there settle down and
attack were only about me, could when I committed the imprudence
einzufinden me there. I decided then to make the sample.
I cashed my fees, and made a longer trip abroad.
Where do I have in the second volume of this to tell work in
which I traveled and their Results will be given a larger
room, I could give them here. During this Travel these
images disappeared altogether, and I was completely free
of them. For this task but is urge in me a very unusual, for
home back return. It was not healthy, but a sick Drive;
I felt very well, but he was so strong I lost the resilience
and obeyed him. I returned home, and the moment I was there,
so, jumped All I thought eliminated on me again. The Disputes
began anew. I heard incessantly the inner command, to
human society to take revenge, and revenge though by that I laid
hands on me its laws. I felt that I If I obeyed this
order, a maximum would be more dangerous man, and took
all given to me Force together against this terrible fate
. Anzukaempfen

I think it is here necessary to be said that I not considered
pathological for my condition. All My ancestors were as far
as I knew them both physically and mentally healthy people have
been nuclear. There was nothing atavistic in me. What in
this Relationship had attached to me, that certainly was not
generated from within, but from the outside
of approached me. I worked diligently, almost day and Night,
as I at all in the work always my biggest I found joy.
They bought my stuff much. I suffered no means trouble,
especially as I with the parents lived, who were now better
than before. I would have had to live fully, even if I do
not deserved. In these works, reiterated what I have already
described earlier. If I do something ordinary wrote, did not
as the slightest hindrance one. Once I, however, placed
a higher theme, a spiritually, religiously or ethically
more valuable job forces were active in me, which outraged
the other hand, and prevented me by my work at prevailing
To bring that to me while I wrote that the most trivial, stupid
or even banned in between throwing thoughts. I should
not rise, I should stay down. For this purpose,
was joined by an old, very well-known scoundrel, the No one
can trust, and if he ever so flattering; I think the
thirst. The horror of brandy is I inherited and I enjoy him
most as a remedy. Wine I was denied because of the
price so far, and for beer I have not the affection, which one must
feel to be a drinker.

    But now I felt strangely always great thirst, when I'm on
my walks to an inn vorueberging, and also of the evening,
when others do not everything worked, I came close to
the desire, the spring lie down and go to the pub, as they
do. I did it is not. Father did. He could be a simple glass
Beer, Schnaeppschen [sic] not dispense well. But I did
not feel like it and stayed home. The I was not a victim
and was not about me difficult, oh no. I will tell only of
the psychological Interest due, because I appear very strange,
that this contradictory nature of my whole and I otherwise
completely alien spirits thirst for more only occurred
when the voices in the upper hand I had, but otherwise never!

I
had been looking forward so much on Grandmother submit my work
plans, and now she was dead I here talked about so with the
parents and siblings. Father now had to think different. He was in
a Kind of social moult understood and therefore for
me not have to, especially since he never at home in
the evening remained. The sisters had other interests. My
whole range of ideas was foreign to them. So I had only
the mother. She sat in the evening with her knitting
still at the table on which I wrote. I put her so much against
the idea that I mean spring busy. She listened to me quietly.
She nodded agree. She smiled encouragingly. She said a dear,
word of comfort. She was like a saint. But they did not understand
me. She felt only they knew. And she wished with all my heart
that everything be would like, as I awaited me. And
when she saw how firm and unshakable I believed in my
future, because they believed and was so happy, like
a mother may be, that child is so happy, to God, to be allowed
to leave on the humanity and to themselves. But I felt
lonely, lonely as always. For also in the whole place there
was not one person want to understand me, or would have
understood even can. And this loneliness I felt my degree,
the internally afflicted so hard in the highest degree
dangerous. Nothing was necessary to me as SOUL sociability.
But I was, if not outwardly, but inside always alone and so
was the characters, beat me wanted, almost incessantly,
and exposed without protection. And in the midst of this
vulnerability, I was now packed by other enemies, which,
although were not internal but external, but neither could
be taken by the hands.

My mother was continuously because of their profession
to operate in other families. She was a trusted person.
They had been happy.

    She was told everything with, without having to ask
them to secrecy needed. She learned all that in towns
and in the neighborhood did. It had a break somewhere
given. Everyone spoke of him. The suspect was . Escape
Soon there was another in the same way executed. Then
there were some shenanigans, probably in debilitated
by artisans scene set. I listened not, as it is told,
but after a while noticed that mother was still serious
than usual and had me when she thought, unobserved to be, looked
strangely sympathetic. I was quiet at first, but
thought very soon, after the to have to ask why. She did
not answer; I begged until she did. A circulating Rumor,
a rumor incomprehensible that I that burglars was. To whom should
you trust it, as me, the redundant Prisoners? I laughed
comment on that but inwardly was I am outraged, and there
was some heavy nights. It roared from evening to morning
in my mind. The Voices shouted to me, "dams up, as you
will, we give up not going! You belong to us! We force you
to avenge you! You are a front of the world Rogue and
have to stay a villain, if you rest want to have! "It sounded
at night. If I am Wanted to work days, I did not finish anything.
I could do not eat. Mother had said to the Father. Both
asked me not to cause me the heart to . Take They could
come for me. They knew yes, exactly, in those times that I not
the house had come. What we learned, everything was said
in confidence. No name was mentioned. Therefore there was
no point at which I was able to access, myself to defend. But
it was worse. The native Police did not want me well. I was with
trust certificate been released and so escaped their control.
Now they thought he had reason to be to deal with me.
There were some new rascalities before, that all
perpetrators necessarily with a certain Intelligence were
affected. It was believed that this for me to have to interpret.
That was at the same time, in the form to the above mentioned "Luegenschmiede"
began.

    New rumors were circulating, romantic ausgeschmueckt.
The sergeant asked in hand, where I on such a day at such and
such time had been. The eyes were fixed on
me, where I let see, but as soon as I reproduced these
looks, looked one fast away. Then came a poor worm, but
a had a good guy, a school friend who loves me always had
and even now depended on me. He was proverbial awkward
and frankly unforgivable. He held coarse for his human duty.
It could not longer endure. He came to me and told me to Handshake
and secrecy all that against me was in vogue.
That was so stupid and yet so infuriating, so reckless and
ruthless, so - - so - - so - - so - - - I had no words, the
poor, well-meaning people for his painful honesty to thank.
But when he saw my face, he made Then as quickly as possible
from.

This was a difficult, a most unhappy day. It drove me away
also. I walked around in the forest and came home dead tired
late at night and laid down without have eaten. Despite the
fatigue I could not Sleep. Ten, fifty, even a hundred voices
mocked me in my mind with incessant laughter. I sprang from
my bed and ran out in the night, where, where,
I noticed even not. It seemed as if the inner forms
of I had stepped out and herliefen next to me. This
the religious seminary director, then the accountant, the
I would not have borrowed his Clock, a band of Cone
valves, cone balls in their hands, and then the robber
barons, thieves, monks, nuns, ghosts and Ghosts from the Hohenstein
trash library.
 Then they put plumes of feathers on their heads, and fans in
their hands, and made them dance before the idol; and when they had danced, they threw them
on their backs on the sacrificial stone that stood there, and, sawing open their breasts with
knives of stone, they tore out their hearts, and offered them up in sacrifice; and the bodies
they flung down the stairs to the bottom. More than this the Spaniards cannot have seen, though
Diaz describes the rest of the proceedings as though they had been done in his sight; but it
was not the first time they had witnessed such things, and they knew well enough what was happening
down below,--how the butchers were waiting to cut up the carcases as they came down, that they
might be cooked with chile, and eaten in the solemn banquet of the evening.

The day was closing in by this time; and our man was waiting with the horses at the foot of
the great pyramid; and with him an Indian, whom we had caught half an hour before, and sent
off with a real to buy pulque, and to collect such obsidian arrows and clay heads as were to
be found at the ranchos in the neighbourhood.

Near the place we started from, two or three Indians were diligently at work at their stone-quarry,
that is to say, they were laboriously bringing out great hewn stones from the side of the pyramid,
to build their walls with; and indeed we could see in every house for miles round stones that
had come from the same source, as was proved by the stucco still remaining upon them, smoothed
like polished marble, and painted dull red with cinnabar.

As I write this, it brings to my recollection an old Roman trophy in North Italy, built--like
these pyramids--of a shell of hewn stone, filled with rough stones and cement, now as hard
as the rock itself. There I saw the inhabitants of the town which stands at its foot, carrying
off the great limestone blocks, but first cutting them up into pieces of a size that they could
move about, and build into their houses. Here and there, in this little Italian town, there
were to be seen in the walls letters of the old inscription which were once upon the trophy;
and the age of the houses shewed that the monument had served as a quarry for centuries.

As we rode home, we noticed by the sides of the road, and where ditches had been cut, numbers
of old Mexican stone-floors covered with stucco. The earth has accumulated above them to the
depth of two or three feet, so that their position is like that of the Roman pavements so often
found in Europe; and we may guess, from what we saw exposed, how great must be the number of
such remains still hidden, and how vast a population must once have inhabited this plain, now
almost deserted.

Two days afterwards we came back. In the ploughed fields in the neighbourhood we made repeated
trials whether it was possible to stand still in any spot where there was no relic of old Mexico
within our reach; but this we could not do. Everywhere the ground was full of unglazed pottery
and obsidian; and we even found arrows and clay figures that were good enough for a museum.
When we left England, we both doubted the accounts of the historians of the Conquest, believing
that they had exaggerated the numbers of the population, and the size of the cities, from a
natural desire to make the most of their victories, and to write as wonderful a history as
they could, as historians are prone to do. But our examination of Mexican remains soon induced
us to withdraw this accusation, and even made us inclined to blame the chroniclers for having
had no eyes for the wonderful things that surrounded them.

I do not mean by this that we felt inclined to swallow the monstrous exaggerations of Solis
and Gomara and other Spanish chroniclers, who seemed to think that it was as easy to say a
thousand as a hundred, and that it sounded much better. But when this class of writers are
set aside, and the more valuable authorities severely criticised, it does not seem to us that
the history thus extracted from these sources is much less reliable than European history of
the same period. There is, perhaps, no better way of expressing this opinion than to say that
what we saw of Mexico tended generally to confirm Prescott's History of the Conquest, and but
seldom to make his statements appear to us improbable.

There are other mounds near the pyramids, besides the Micaotli. Two sides of the Pyramid of
the Sun are surrounded by them; and there are two squares of mounds at equal distances, north
and south of it, besides innumerable scattered hillocks. There are some sculptured blocks of
stone lying near the pyramids, and inside the smaller one is buried what appears to be a female
bust of colossal size, with the mouth like an oval ring, so common in Mexican sculptures.

The same abundance of ancient remains that we found here characterizes the neighbourhood of
all the Mexican monuments in the country, with one curious exception. Burkart declares that
in the vicinity of the extensive remains of temples known as Los Edificios, near Zacatecas,
no traces of pottery or of obsidian were to be found.

Before going away, we held a solemn market of antiquities. We sat cross-legged on the ground,
and the Indian women and children brought us many curious articles in clay and obsidian, which
we bought and deposited in two great bags of aloe-fibre which our man carried at his saddle-bow.
Among the articles we bought were various pipes or whistles of pottery, pitos, as they are
called in Spanish, and just as we were mounting our horses to ride off, a lad ran to the top
of one of the mounds, and blew on one of these pipes a long dismal note that could be heard
a mile off. Our friends had filled our heads so full of robbers and ambushes, that we made
sure it was a signal for some one who was waiting for us, and the more so as the boy ran off
as soon as he had blown his blast; and when we looked round for the people whose antiquities
we had been buying, they had all disappeared. But nothing came of it, and we got safely back
to Tezcuco. As usual, we spent a capital evening, and separated late. The owner of the glass-works,
who had been spending the evening with us, had an adventure on his road home. He was peaceably
riding along, when two men rushed out from behind the corner of the street, and shouted "alto
ahí!" (halte-là). He thought they were robbers, and started at a gallop. His hat flew off,
and the men sent two bullets singing past his head, which sent him on quicker than ever, till
he reached his house. There he got his pistols, and came back armed to the teeth to fetch the
hat, which lay where it had fallen. The supposed robbers turned out, on enquiry next day, to
have been national guards, patrolling the street; but certainly their proceedings were rather
questionable.

We had an unpleasant visit the same night. The custom of the Casa Grande was that after dark
a watchman patrolled all night, giving a long blast every quarter of an hour on one of these
same doleful Mexican whistles, to show that ho was not sleeping on his rounds. This was for
the outside. Inside the house, pour surcroît de précaution, a servant came round to see that
every one was in his room; and having satisfied himself of this, let loose in the courtyard
two enormous bulldogs, which were the terror of the household and of the whole neighbourhood.
On this particular night, a noise at our own door woke me from a sound sleep; and I had the
pleasure of seeing a creature walk deliberately in, looking huge and terrific in the moonlight.
The beast had been into the stable two nights before, and had pinned a cow which was there,
keeping his hold upon her till next morning, when he was got off by the keeper. With this specimen
of the bulldog's abilities fresh in my recollection, I preferred not making any attempt to
resent his impertinent intrusion, but lay still, till he had satisfied himself with walking
about the room and sniffing at our beds, when he lay down on my carpet; I soon fell asleep
again, and next morning he was gone. The foreigners in Mexico seem to delight in fierce bull-dogs.
The Casa Grande at Tezcuco is not by any means the only place where they form part of the garrison.
One English acquaintance of ours in the Capital kept two of these beasts up in his rooms, and
not even the servants dared go up, unless the master was there.

Every one who has read Prescott's 'Mexico' will recollect Nezahualcoyotl, the king of Tezcuco;
and the palaces he built there for his wives, and his poets, and the rest of his great court.
These palaces were built chiefly of mud bricks; and time and the Spaniards have dealt so hardly
with them, that even their outlines can no longer be traced. Traces of two large teocallis
are just visible, and Mr. Bowring has some burial mounds in his grounds which will be examined
some day. There is a Mexican calendar built into the wall of one of the churches; and, as we
walked about the streets of the present town, we noticed stones that must have been sculptured
before the Spaniards brought in their broken-down classic style, and so stopped the development
of native art. As for the rest of old Tezcuco, it has "become heaps." Wherever they dig ditches
or lay the foundations of houses, you may see the ground full of its remains.

As I said before, when speaking of the stuccoed floors near Teotihuacán, the accumulation of
alluvial soil goes on very rapidly and very regularly all over the plains of Mexico and Puebla,
where everything favours its deposit; and the human remains preserved in it are so numerous
that its age may readily be seen. We noticed this in many places, but in no instance so well
as between Tezcuco and the hacienda of Miraflores. There a long ditch, some five feet deep,
had just been cut in anticipation of the rainy season. As yet it was dry, and, as we walked
along it, we found three periods of Mexican history distinctly traceable from one end to the
other. First came mere alluvium, without human remains. Then, just above, came fragments of
obsidian knives and bits of unglazed pottery. Above this again, a third layer, in which the
obsidian ceased, and much of the pottery was still unglazed; but many fragments were glazed,
and bore the unmistakable Spanish patterns in black and yellow.

It is a pity that these alluvial deposits, which give such good evidence as to the order in
which different peoples or different states of society succeeded one another on the earth,
should be so valueless as a means of calculating the time of their duration; but one can easily
see that they must always be so, by considering how the thickness of the deposits is altered
by such accidents as the formation of a mud-bank, or the opening of a new channel,--things
that must be continually occurring in districts where this very accumulation is going on. The
only place where any calculation can be based upon its thickness is on the banks of the Nile,
where its accumulations round the ancient monuments may perhaps give a criterion as to the
time which has elapsed since man ceased to clear away the deposits of the river.[13]

As an instance of the tendency of alluvial deposits to entomb such monuments of former ages,
I must mention the temple of Segeste, which stands on a gentle slope among the hills of northern
Sicily. I had heard talk of the graceful proportions of this Doric temple, built by the Greek
colonists; and great was my surprise, on first coming in sight of it, to see a pediment supported
by two rows of short squat columns, without bases, and rising directly from the ground. A nearer
inspection showed the cause of this extraordinary distortion. The whole slope had risen full
six feet during the 2500 years, or so, that have elapsed since its desertion; and the temple
now stands in a large oblong pit, which has lately been excavated. As we left the spot, and
turned to see it again a few yards off, the beautiful symmetry of the whole had disappeared again.

To return to Tezcuco. Some three or four miles from the town stands the hill of Tezcotzinco,
where Nezahualcoyotl had his pleasure-gardens; and to this hill we made an excursion early
one morning, with Mr. Bowring for our guide. We did not go first to Tezcotzinco itself, but
to another hill which is connected with it by an aqueduct of immense size, along which we walked.
The mountains in this part are of porphyry, and the channel of the aqueduct was made principally
of blocks of the same material, on which the smooth stucco that had once covered the whole,
inside and out, still remained very perfect. The channel was carried, not on arches, but on
a solid embankment, a hundred and fifty or two hundred feet high, and wide enough for a carriage-road.

The hill itself was overgrown with brushwood, aloes, and prickly pears, but numerous roads
and flights of steps cut in the rock were distinguishable. Not far below the top of the hill,
a terrace runs completely round it, whence the monarch could survey a great part of his little
kingdom. On the summit itself I saw sculptured blocks of stone; and on the side of the hill
are two little circular baths, cut in the solid rock. The lower of the two has a flight of
steps down to it; the seat for the bather, and the stone pipe which brought the water, arc
still quite perfect.

His majesty used to spend his afternoons here on the shady side of the hill, apparently sitting
up to his middle in water, like a frog, if one may judge by the height of the little seat in
the bath. If, as some writers say, these were only tanks with streams of running water, and
not baths at all, why the steps cut in their sides, which are just large enough and high enough
for a man to sit in? No water has come there for centuries now; and the morning-sun nearly
broiled us, till we got into a sort of cave, excavated in the hill, it is said, with an idea
of finding treasure. It seems there was once a Mexican calendar cut in the rock at this spot;
and some white people who were interested in such matters, used to come to see it, and poke
curiously about in search of other antiquities. Naturally enough, the Indians thought that
they expected to find treasure; and with a view of getting the first chance themselves, they
cut down the calendar, and made this large excavation behind it.

Here we sat in the shade, breakfasting, and hearing Mr. Bowring's stories of the art of medicine
as practised in the northern states of Mexico, where decoction of shirt is considered an invaluable
specific when administered internally; and the recognised remedy for lumbago is to rub the
patient with the drawers of a man named John. No doubt the latter treatment answers very well!

There is an old Mexican bridge near Tezcuco which seems to be the original Puente de las Bergantinas,
the bridge where Cortes had the brigantines launched on the lake of Tezcuco. This bridge has
a span of about twenty feet, and is curious as showing how nearly the Mexicans had arrived
at the idea of the arch. It is made in the form of a roof resting on two buttresses, and composed
of slabs of stone with the edges upwards, with mortar in the interstices; the slabs being sufficiently
irregular in shape to admit of their holding together, like the stones of a real arch. One
may now and then see in Europe the roofs of small stone hovels made in the same way; but twenty
feet is an immense span for such a construction. I have seen such buildings in North Italy,
in places where the limestone is so stratified as to furnish rough slabs, three or four inches
thick, with very little labour in quarrying them out. In Kerry there are ancient houses and
churches roofed in the same way. What makes the Tezcuco bridge more curious is that it is set
askew, which must have made its construction more difficult.

The brigantines which the Spaniards made, and transported over the mountains in such a wonderful
manner, fully answered their purpose, for without them Mexico could hardly have been taken.
After the Conquest they were kept for years, for the good service they had done; but vessels
of such size do not seem to have been used upon the lake since then; and I believe the only
sailing craft at present is Mr. Bowring's boat, which the Indians look at askance, and decidedly
decline to imitate. It is true that, somewhere near the city, there is moored a little steamer,
looking quite civilized at a distance. It never goes anywhere, however; and I have a sort of
impression of having heard that when it was first made they got up the steam once, but the
conduct of the machinery under these circumstances was so extraordinary and frantic that no
one has ventured to repeat the experiment.

Before we left Tezcuco, we went in a boat to explore Mr. Bowring's salt-works, which are rather
like the salines of the South of France. Therefore I will Storyteller be nothing
more than storytellers, just as Grandmother was! I just
need the eyes to open it, I see stored up, and these
hundreds But hundreds of flesh and parables to Salvation costume
fairy-tale. In each cell one and work on each stool one.
Lauter sleeping Dornroeschen, waiting for the mercy and
love to be kissed awake. Lauter languishing in chains
Souls, in old castles, in the prisons converted, or in huge
modern buildings, in which Humanitarian efforts from cell to
cell, from stool to stool going to wake up and free
up what the awakening and freedom are worth showing. I want
between Science and life teach. I want parables and tell
stories, in which the deeply hidden Truth is, the one in
other ways not yet can behold. I want to draw light
from the darkness my Gefaengnislebens. I want the punishment
to me has taken to transform in freedom for others.
I want the rigor of the law under which I suffer, in a
great compassion for all those who have fallen, operate in
a love and compassion, before it Finally, not a "crime"
and no more "criminal" There, just sick, sick, sick.

But no one can guess that what I tell, only parables
and fairy tales are only because 'knowing one that, I would
never achieve what I achieve remember. I have even become
a fairy tale, myself, my own self.

    It is certainly a boldness be where I can easily perish,
but is the fate of a small single people when it is
big, huge soaring around the issues Humanity is? On the one
tiny Schicksaelchen despised prisoner for the company for
so and is lost at all, if the way in the one about the
"crime" thinks and speaks; does not change as soon as
possible!

That was a thought that came to me quite suddenly, But deep
nests and left me again. He gained power over me, he was great.
He took at last my whole soul, and probably for the reason,
because he hid in the fulfillment of all that already
from my childhood wish and hope I was living.

    I held him, this thought, I expanded and deepened
it, and I worked it out. He had me, and I had him, we both
were identical. But that did not happen quickly, but
it took a long, long time, and there were still cloudy
and still heavier Days previously, when the were present before
I think Work plan developed and had set such
that change in him was no more. I made up my mind we
still continue Ore to my humorous stories and village to
write stories to the German Reading world to be known and
to show her that I I move just absolutely gottesglaeubigem ground.
But then I would resort to a genre that in the most general
interest and is the largest Eindrucksfaehigkeit has, namely
to Reiseerzaehlung. This Send to really tell based travel
was not absolutely necessary and should be yes but only
parables and his only fairy tale, but extremely telling parables
and fairy tales. Nevertheless, were Travel desirable,
for study purposes, the various learning environment to
know where my characters had to move. The main aim
was to able to prepare, geography, ethnographic, Language
Studies . Drive I had my subjects from my own Life,
the life of my environment, my home increase and could, therefore,
always according to the truth , Assert that all that I tell,
and personal experience Was witnessed. But I had these
subjects also move to distant countries and peoples
to distant to them to give the one effect of it in the native
Clothes do not own. In the Prairies, or under palm trees added,
irradiated by the sun of the East or Schneestuermen
of the Far West umtobt in Dangers hovering, which
is the strongest of compassion Readers bring so and not otherwise
had all my Figures are drawn when I reach them with
the wanted, what they should achieve. And for that
I had in all the states that were described, at least
so theoretically to be at home, like a European It just always
can. It was therefore necessary to work hard and work
hard to prepare myself, and this was the quiet undisturbed
Gefaengnisraum in which I lived grad, the right place.

There are earthly truths, and there are heavenly Truths.
The ground truths are going through the science of the
heavenly by the revelation given.
 But notwithstanding this progress in the right direction, the face of the country
shows the most miserable waste of one of the chief elements of the wealth and prosperity of
the country, the water.

In this respect, Spain and the high lands of Mexico may be compared together. There is no scarcity
of rain in either country, and yet both are dry and parched, while the number and size of their
torrent-beds show with what violence the mountain-streams descend into lakes or rivers, rather
agents of destruction than of benefit to the land. Strangely enough, both countries have been
in possession of races who understood that water was the very life-blood of the land, and worked
hard to build systems of arteries to distribute it over the surface. In both countries, the
warlike Spaniards overcame these races, and irrigating works already constructed were allowed
to fall to ruin.

When the Moriscos were expelled from their native provinces of Andalusia and Granada, their
places were but slowly filled up with other settlers, so that a great part of their aqueducts
and watercourses fell into decay within a few years. These new colonists, moreover, came from
the Northern provinces, where the Moorish system of culture was little understood; and, incredible
as it may seem, though they must have had ocular evidence of the advantages of artificial irrigation,
they even neglected to keep in repair the water-channels on their own ground. Now the traveller,
riding through Southern Spain, may see in desolate barren valleys remains of the Moorish works
which centimes ago brought fertility to grain-fields and orchards, and made the country the
garden of Europe.

There was another nation who seem to have far surpassed both Moors and Aztecs in the magnitude
of their engineering-works for this purpose. The Peruvians cut through mountains, filled up
valleys, and carried whole rivers away in artificial channels to irrigate their thirsty soil.
The historians' accounts of these water-works as they were, and even travellers' descriptions
of the ruins that still remain, fill us with astonishment. It seems almost like some strange
fatality that this nation too should have been conquered by the same race, the ruin of its
great national works following immediately upon the Conquest.

Spain is rising again after long centuries of degradation, and is developing energies and resources
which seem likely to raise it high among European nations, and the Spaniards are beginning
to hold their own again among the peoples of Europe. But they have had to pay dearly for the
errors of their ancestors in the great days of Charles the Fifth.

The ancient Mexicans were not, it is true, to be compared with the Spanish Arabs or the Peruvians
in their knowledge of agriculture and the art of irrigation; but both history and the remains
still to be found in the country prove that in the more densely populated parts of the plains
they had made considerable progress. The ruined aqueduct of Tetzcotzinco which I have just
mentioned was a grand work, serving to supply the great gardens of Nezahualcoyotl, which covered
a large space of ground and excited the admiration of the Conquerors, who soon destroyed them,
it is said, in order that they might not remain to remind the conquered inhabitants of their
days of heathendom.

Such works as these seem, however, not to have extended over whole provinces as they did in
Spain. In the thinly peopled mountain-districts, the Indians broke up their little patches
of ground with a hoe, and watered them from earthen jars, as indeed they do to this day.

The Spaniards improved the agriculture of the country by introducing European grain, and fruit-trees,
and by bringing the old Roman plough, which is used to this day in Mexico as in Spain, where
two thousand years have not superseded its use or even altered it. Against these improvements
we must set a heavy account of injury done to the country as regards its cultivation. The Conquest
cost the lives of several hundred thousand of the labouring class; and numbers more were taken
away from the cultivation of the land to work as slaves for the conquerors in building houses
and churches, and in the silver-mines. When the inhabitants were taken away, the ground went
out of cultivation, and much of it has relapsed into desert. Even before the Conquest, Mexico
had been suffering for many years from incessant wars, in which not only thousands perished
on the field of battle, but the prisoners sacrificed annually were to be counted by thousands
more, while famine carried off the women and children whose husbands and fathers had perished.
But the slaughter and famine of the first years of the Spanish Conquest far exceeded anything
that the country had suffered before.

At the time of the Conquest of Mexico the Spaniards let the native irrigating-works fall into
decay; and they took still more active measures to deprive the land of its necessary water,
by their indiscriminate destruction of the forests on the hills that surround the plains. When
the trees were cut down, the undergrowth soon perished, and the soil which had served to check
the descending waters in their course was soon swept away. During the four rainy months, each
heavy shower sends down a flood along the torrent-bed which flows into a river, and so into
the ocean, or, as in the Mexican valley, into a salt lake, where it only serves to injure the
surrounding land. In both cases it runs away in utter waste.

In later years the Spanish owners of the soil had the necessity of the system impressed upon
them by force of circumstances; and large sums were spent upon the construction of irrigating
channels, even in the outlying states of the North.

In the American territory recently acquired from Mexico history has repeated itself in a most
curious way. We learn from Froebel, the German traveller, that the new American settlers did
not take kindly to the system of irrigation which they found at work in the country. They were
not used to it, and it interfered with their ideas of liberty by placing restrictions upon
their doing what they pleased on their own land. So they actually allowed many of the water-canals
to fall into ruins. Of course they soon began to find out their mistake, and are probably investing
heavily in water-supply by this time. We ought not to be too severe upon the Spaniards of the
sixteenth century for an economical mistake which we find the Americans falling into under
similar circumstances in the nineteenth.

CHAPTER VII.

CUERNAVACA. TEMISCO. XOCHICALCO.

Much too soon, as we thought, the day came when we had arranged to leave Tezcuco and return
to Mexico, to prepare for a journey into the tierra caliente. On the evening of our return
to the capital there was a little earthquake, but neither of us noticed it; and thus we lost
our one chance, and returned to England without having made acquaintance with that peculiar
sensation.

The purchase of horses and saddles and other equipments for our journey, gave us an opportunity
of poking about into out-of-the-way corners of the city, and seeing some new phases of Mexican
life; and certainly we made the most of the chance. We made acquaintance with horse-dealers,
who brought us horses to try in the courtyard of the great house of our friends the English
merchants in the Calle Seminario, and there showed off their paces, walking, pacing, and galloping.
To trot is considered a disgusting vice in a Mexican horse; and the universal substitute for
it here is the paso, a queer shuffling run, first, the two legs on one side together, and then
the other two. You jolt gently up and down without rising in the stirrups; and when once you
are used to it the paso is not disagreeable, and it is well suited to long mountain-journeys.
Horses in the United States are often trained to this gait, and are known as "pacing" horses.
Another peculiarity in the training of Mexican horses is, that many of them are taught to "rayar,"
that is, to put their fore-feet out after the manner of mules going down a pass; and slide
a short distance along the ground, so as to stop suddenly in the midst of a rapid gallop. To
practise the horses in this feat, the jockey draws a lino ("raya") on the ground, and teaches
them to stop exactly as they reach it, and whirl round in the opposite direction. This performance
is often to be seen on the paseo, and other places, where smart young gentlemen like to show
off themselves and their horses; but it is only a fancy trick, and they acknowledge that it
spoils the animal's fore-legs.

After much bargaining and chaffering we bought three horses for ourselves and our man Antonio,
giving eight, seven, and four pounds for them. This does not seem much to give for good hackneys,
as these were; but they were not particularly cheap for Mexico. While we were at Tezcuco, Mr.
Christy used to ride one of Mr. Bowring's horses, a pretty little chestnut, which carried him
beautifully, and had cost just eleven dollars, or forty-six shillings. It had been bought of
the horse-dealers who come down every year from the almost uninhabited states of Chihuahua,
Durango, and Cohahuila, on the American frontier, where innumerable herds of horses, all but
wild, roam over boundless prairies, feeding on the tall coarse grass. Their keep costs so little,
that the breeders are not compelled, as in England, to break them in and sell them at the earliest
possible moment, and they let the young colts roam untamed till they are five or six years
old. Their great strength and power of endurance in proportion to their size is in great measure
to be ascribed to this early indulgence.

It is very clear that when a horse is to be sold for somewhere between two and six pounds,
the breeder cannot afford to spend much time in breaking him in. The rough-rider lazos him,
puts on the bridle with its severe bit, and springs upon his back in spite of kicking and plunging.
The horse gallops furiously off across country of his own accord, but when his pace begins
to flag, the great vaquero spurs come into requisition, and in an hour or two he comes back
to the corral dead beat and conquered once for all. It is easy to teach him his paces afterwards.
The anquera--as it is called--is put on his haunches, to cure him of trotting, and to teach
him the paso instead. It is a leather covering fringed with iron tags, which is put on behind
the saddle, and allows the horse to pace without annoying him; but the least approach to a
trot brings the pointed tags rattling upon his haunches. We bought one of these anqueras at
Puebla. It was very old, and curiously ornamented with carved patterns. In the last century,
these anqueras were a regular part of Mexican horse-equipment; but now, except in horse-breaking
yards or old curiosity-shops, they are seldom to be seen.

Almost all the Mexican horses descend from the Arab breed--the gentlest and yet the most spirited
in the world, which have not degenerated since the Spaniards brought them over in the early
days of the Conquest, but retain unchanged their small graceful shape, their swiftness, and
their power of bearing fatigue. There seem really to be no large horses bred in the country.
Instead of jolting about in a carriage drawn by eight or ten mules, with harness covered with
silver and gold--as rich Mexicans used to do, the proper thing now is to have a pair of tall
carriage-horses, like ours in England; and these are brought at great expense from the United
States, and by the side of the graceful little Mexicans they look as big and as clumsy as elephants.

Our saddles were of the old Moorish pattern, of monstrous size and weight, very comfortable
for the rider, but, I fear, much less so for the horse, whose back often gets sadly galled,
in spite of the thick padding and the two or three blankets that are put on underneath. These
saddles run into high peaks behind and before, so that you can hardly fall out of them, even
when you go to sleep in the saddle on a long journey, as many people habitually do. In front,
the saddle rises into a pummel which is made of hard wood, and is something like a large mushroom
with its stalk. Round this the end of the lazo is wound, after the noose has been thrown. All
Mexican saddles are provided with these heads in front, and have, moreover, several pairs of
little thongs attached to them on each side, which serve to tie on bags, whips, water-gourds,
and other odds and ends. Behind the seat of the saddle are more straps, where cloaks and serapes
are fastened; and in case of need even a carpet-bag will travel there. We were in the habit
of returning from our expeditions with our horses so covered with the plants and curiosities
we had collected, that it became no easy matter to get our legs safely over the horses' backs,
into their proper places among the clusters of miscellanea. Our acquaintances used to compare
us to the perambulating butchers' shops, which are a feature in Mexican streets, and consist
of a horse with a long saddle covered with hooks, and on every hook a joint.

The flaps of our saddles, the great spatterdashes that protected our feet from the mud, and
the broad stirrup-straps were covered with carved and embossed patterns; indeed almost all
leather-work is decorated in this way, and the saddle-makers delight in ornamenting their wares
with silver plates and bosses; so that it was not surprising that our saddles and bridles should
have cost, though second-hand, nearly as much as the horses.

In books of travels in Mexico up to the beginning of the present century, one of the staple
articles of wondering description was the gorgeous trappings of the horses, and the spurs,
bits, and stirrups of gold and silver. The costumes have not changed much, but the taste for
such costly ornaments has abated; and it is now hardly respectable to have more than a few
pounds worth of bullion on one's saddle or around one's hat, or to wear a hundred or so of
buttons of solid gold down the sides of one's leather trousers, with a very questionable cotton
calzoncillo underneath.

The horses' bits are made with a ring, which pinches the under-lip when the bridle is tightened,
and causes great pain when it is pulled at all hard. At first sight it seems cruel to use such
bits, but the system works very well; and the horses, knowing the power their rider has over
them, rarely misbehave themselves. One rides along with the loop at the end of the twisted
horse-hair bridle hanging loose on one finger, so that the horse's mouth is much less pulled
about than with the bridles we are accustomed to in England. When it is necessary to guide
the horse, the least pressure is enough; but, as a general rule, the little fellow can find
his way as well as his rider can. We used continually to let our reins drop on our horses'
necks, and jog on careless of pits and stumbling-blocks. I have even seen my companion take
out his pocket-book, and improve the occasion by making notes and sketches as he went.

The distance from Mexico to Vera Cruz is about two hundred and fifty miles, and what the roads
are I have in some measure described. Rafael Beraza, the courier of the English Mission at
Mexico, used to ride this with despatches regularly once a month in forty hours, and occasionally
in thirty-five. He changed horses about every ten or fifteen miles; and now and then, when,
overcome by sleep, he would let the boy who accompanied him to the next stage ride first, his
own horse following, and the rider comfortably dozing as he went along.

As for our own equipment, Mr. Christy adopted the attributes of the eastern traveller when
he came into the country, the great umbrella, the veil, and the felt hat with a white handkerchief
over it. On its southwestern slopes is Chun-chun
(English Tshwene-Tshwene), the city of is under the chief Matlapin Batloka, which lies in the field
Sechele's, which from the mouth up to the Sirorume Dwarsberge last. In the low forest in the tank,
especially against Chun-chun, I found the morula tree with ripe fruit.

    1: I watched the Marico banks of granite and gneiss rocks with
    ascending thick quartz veins of large Gold mica flakes
    were crossed.

On 4 we met in a soft image of the city. The city itself was kept quite clean. The farms and
huts were larger and more spacious than those of most of Bechuanaland and here's and there
surrounded by gardens. In the fields, only here and there was some grain, corn and Kafirzuckerrohr.
I stopped outside the city, as does mine Batloka's was that the Morena drunk and it was fun in the city
fro. From the high plateau, from which the latter Height Complex collects, descending, we found
at the waste of the same hard in the gray Limestone cliffs several deep holes which cold spring
water contained. From these sources offered us a surprising sight. Before us lay a several miles wide,
lightly wooded Valley, which ran from east to the south of the Marico and a long bushy and
wooded, countless peaks having height during the Dwarsbergen, was limited. Beyond the same
was already the territory of the Transvaal Republic. The passport, the I Dwarsberge on 6 exceeded
called, I Schweinfurth, the next Western Rohlfs Pass. From the saddle height the same we saw on a particular
east against the Marico spreading Level, the first farm. On the opposite foot of the heights
we met one by Damaraland emigrating Boer.

Once on the farm Brackfontein, I discovered to my surprise, most joyous, that the owner was
a blacksmith, and I can now repair the damage to my car could. The invitation of his two sons
to accompany them to hunt, I was able to regard follow my convalescence, although the wealth of the
area of ​​game was enticing. In the more densely bushy parts of the Dwarsbergen there were gazelles
and kudu, in the slightly wooded lots at their feet and on the grassy plains to the east and
south Heerden the two types of wildebeest, zebra, springbok and there were also saber-antelopes
and ostriches visible. Fourier, the farmer mentioned, too, that worry lion in winter, the area
and told me several hunting adventures, of which I will cite one here, that he and its neighboring
farmers in Mashonaland experienced.

had on a jointly undertaken hunting trips in the same areas of the tsetse fly a Elephantenheerde detected;
because the tracks were divided suddenly, followed by Fourier Matabele his servants the more
numerous, while his friend, the giant of a man Animal recorded. He was also the first to sight
his prey for a half-hour march was. Fourier also heard the shot and went after his efforts to locate
the flock, was unsuccessful, returned to his friends, he found him, but only as a corpse, again.
On the Ground stretched his face stained with blood that flowed from the mouth, nose and ears.
Before him his gun [1] was with cracked pistons, and about 30 steps in the same direction under
a tree of the cadaver of a large male elephant. While the story of the farmer I had one of the
huge, clumsy and heavy, very rusty four-pounder in the Upper hand, the inner surface (back surface)
was lined with wool and with a soft skin covered.

1: The rifle, Pound ¼ caliber is, as four bullets into a Pounds to
go, called by the Boers-pounder.

    
    

From Brackfontein I turned on 12 south to - the so-called "Bushveldt" (Busch Field) durchkreuzend
- the Marico in the actual height nets lying natives city Linokana visit.

Without provisionally enter into a more detailed description of the Bushveldts, I will mention here
only that it is made of a wooded hill country, the numerous side with the Dwarsbergen, low ridges, sandy
terrain, isolated hills and numerous valleys, and whose Bottom is covered with lush grass. Before
I went through the Buyspaß (Buysport) left, touched I Markfontein farms, Sandfontein, Witfontein.
The Eigenthühmer the former, Zwart, had quite extensive, large farm purchased by 300 £ h.. Zwart
was also an old Elephant hunting and had visited the Damaraland and the Zambesi Falls on his
wanderings. In Sandfontein Hartebeest lived in a house-a Dutchman for Mr Taylor, the Clerk at
Sechele, the shipment of the goods concerned. We were of him and his friendly, old mother,
but that he only periodically for a few days with his a month, lived entertained for the best.

In
the evening we reached the aforementioned Buysport (passport) and passed him the next day
(March 15).

The Buyspaß is one of the most attractive parts of the Marico-level network. A Spruit, in
the small, deep pools of water throughout the year holds in its rocky bed; must be crossed several
times, and even if the progress is hampered by very much and demanded the greatest care, it
offers itself to the eye in the soon-by wooded, sometimes sharply sloping or step-like boulders
concentrated Flußthale such a picturesque and nice picture is that one the trouble of traveling
through the pass is not afraid, and the more so, as the nature lover there is amply rewarded.

Bushbuck,
gazelle-Roibock, Klipspringer, baboons and monkeys are in addition to smaller cat-like beasts
of prey and the Hyrax to the more common symptoms of the larger Quadrupeds,
but we meet occasionally leopards, lynxes and Kudu's. The abundance
of birds, Snakes, insects and plants is surprising.

Besides the already mentioned here and there, game birds - with Except for the bustard and
the tramp like Otis - I found quail, two new species of thrush to me, a turning neck, two species
of crows almond, etc.

The plateau, which we entered after enactment of the pass was a beautiful meadow and covered with numerous
built-up areas to the west and east, it descends to the Notuany-
Zeerust and-down heights.

These heights few miles to the southwest down driving, we came into the valley of the upper
Notuany that of the immediately in front of us which opens Matebethal was partially separated by
a mountain range and built to half its size. This Fields were the landmark Linokana's, a Baharutsestadt,
flowering of the crop I had already heard in Moschaneng, Molopolole and elsewhere. The Notuany,
the We crossed a few miles above its sources, flowed in a grave-shaped bed and was with some
logs scantily new bridges, over which most primitive hazardous construction and we had to translate
the carriage. We drove into the valley of Matebeflüßchens and soon came into the valley of
Linokana boiler in the middle, and at its northern and eastern edge of the heights of the same
natives city is built.

In the many reed thickets at Matebeflüßchen to make a rich animal world noticeable. The evening
and the morning are the times in which we listen to their doings,
the gray wildcat in the stalk and snipe the long-tailed Capfinken,
water iguana rare and can also monitor the Caracal, but the latter
only if he in his rocky crevices for food breaks off and he was forced
to descend into the valley, where he then offer the reed thickets
rich booty and a safe retreat.

Immediately after entering the eastern valley next to the boiler, we notice a well-cultivated fields dense
group of trees at the north end of town, from which group of trees is especially some lean and
highly visible eucalyptus trees make [1] felt. Tail several in the European style house built to a
friendly and courteous man served as a residence, acted with his
examples so beneficial to the Baharutse added that this now in the
Transvaal-Bechuanaland's important to farmers, and probably also are
the wealthiest.

Thomas Jensen is the name of the missionary, a member of the Hermannsburg Missionary Society,
he received us kindly, took me to the chief Moilo (or Moiloa) and the other high in the mountains,
living chiefs, etc. Tschukuru Moiloa was a Old form, kind, although with hard facial expression,
he was a faithful subjects the Transvaal Republic, concerned for the welfare of his subjects, and
excelled in several Respect, the ruler of the neighboring kingdoms. He introduced me to his
sons, of whom he does not the succession to the throne called capable way, was the son living
in Moschaneng of a deceased relative, as Ursprosse of the old royal house of Bechuanaland's, the Baharutse
in Linokana, the rightful future chief.

1: The same had at a height of 60 feet on a Stem diameter of two feet.

In any large farms in the city I took a plow and wagon roofs loomed everywhere from between the
cone-shaped grass roofs. Following the advice of stroke Rev. Jensen, have it understood the
Baharutse that on the western hills of the valley boiler springing source take advantage of
Matebeflüßchens and will partly by the city, but also in several
Poor, through the fields and orchards and passed both for irrigation
of cultivated land, taken as a water supply for domestic purposes
to complete.

    The adult male Population paid ten shillings per capita
    tax to the Transvaal Republic and was in case of war required changes
to be men and draft animals.

Rev. Jensen was with the Inempfangnahme Head tax charged and shipped it off to the government,
for which no payment to him of some Art to part, although he made was a year of 400 pounds
sterling.

To the mission farms to pull the gardens and fields where corn and wheat grown will and peaches,
apricots, pears thrive, figs, oranges and lemons, the yield a welcome to contribute to the content
of the missionary is too modest. In the small Flower garden, we greeted old friends from the
cozy home, as there were several types of roses, sometimes individually, sometimes considered
as hedges, irises, the brightly colored, fragrant Cloves, the mock orange, faded tulips, hyacinths,
etc.

The family life of the missionary among the high-Bluegum trees on Matebeflüßchen resembled
a quiet, happy idyll, and was the more noteworthy than the dark-man was a shining example. Rev. Jensen
also shared with us that news, according to, who had come over from Cape Town, Zanzibar, Livingstone
a stirred-attack on Lake Bangweulu had succumbed to what our general joy clouded over the welcome
is not enough.

Rev. Jensen, I learned that the Livingstone's first companion on his missionary journeys in Linokana
still alive.

The chief Moiloa complained to me by Rev. Jensen on the behavior of some whites, who had come
into the city, including a photographer by trade (an American) and an Englishman who called
himself CH. Rev. Jensen told me a most interesting Cure snake bite, which he had observed in
a resident's Linokana.

A man was while the timber felling was bitten by a cobra. screaming in his anxiety, had he ax
and posts, and ran with all his might over hill and dale to the mission home to. Jensen looks
puzzled an approaching fall over with foam-covered man who, arrived with him, from exhaustion and
falls to utter a word is capable of. As it after some time to come and show off to the wound
was, its immediate surroundings only slightly swollen, but the man felt quite well and was healthy,
without taken a Medicament have to. The violent and copious sweat had undoubtedly driven the poison
from the body.

The Baharutse have numerous flocks, although each year a significant number of lose the prevailing
lung disease [1].

1: Only through measures adopted by the government and the Introduction of Acid. sulphuricum dilutum
as a specific, will be do I believe that to counter this evil, powerful
and therefore, substantial capital, which every year in the Transvaal
sites useless lost, can save you.

    
    
    Linokana (= a small stream - the Li = - = NOKA River - nokana =
    river) was used to, but only to Lifetime of the chief Moiloa and he
    named in honor Moiloa.

For the collector, such as Karl Mauch has confirmed this, a several weeks stay in Linokana
very rewarding. With the exception Mamalia are the natural history objects of all kinds represent
rich. [1] The heights of To the north where the (elephant), the eastern Po (Buffalo) mountain are
called, the meadows and swampy parts of the Matebethales, of the wooded Notuany show large variety
of birds, among which notably birds of prey, long-tailed finches, bee catcher, greenish doves
and purple herons, etc. notice.

1: Ferruginous slate, the hard gray limestone Transvaal with calcite,
joined by lead, iron, and copper ores and whole hill of fossiliferous,
the last period of belonging, which clearly attest to the presence
of hot springs, can the mineralogical collections enrich.

    
    
    In earlier times had Moiloa hosts major hunts, which on the western
    plateau were held. He left large areas surround it, and the driver,
    the startled to drive game against the high-level waste after Linokana
where it expects the shooters and killed in large part was.

On 16 I left Moiloa's friendly farmer, and took a southerly direction to To get to Zeerust. We
arrived on the same day to the next beautiful farm that the Fieldeornet
Martin Zwart belonged, and we just dealt with the distillation of
peach brandy found.

M. Zwart had here two farms had several sold at the border and was still far from rosy in circumstances.
Like many other once prosperous farmers was not arise, the fiercely driven hunting him as well. He was
21 years Yachts (Hunts-hunters) have been, during which gloss and at the same time period, he
depletion 294 elephants had killed.

In Notuanythal up to the sources of this river pulling, I made an excursion, to the farm of Oosthuisen,
one of several relatives in a beautiful valley boiler lived. His farm is worth mentioning rich
in copper ores, which also previously by the natives recovered, melted
and processed into bracelets, etc., just as one of the heights far
from the Matebequellen at Linokana bodies found in which iron ore
in a similar manner were processed.

Oosthuisen dealt specifically with maize, wheat and Tabakbau and the tanning of animal hides,
which he had bought from the interior of the returning fighters. Back in Zwarts Farm, we drove
two hours later in the nearby Zeerust, the seat of authority for the Marico District. At that time only
about 40 houses, consisting had the old walled town with a high wall Dutch Church, which in
the earlier Uncertainty of the area, the Dutch population of the immediate neighborhood as
a refuge served.

Zeerust lies on the small Marico that breaks through the hills to the east path to deal with
to unite the great Marico. The Marico District is for the most part one of many flowing streams
and rivulets of marbled and extremely fertile valleys possessing high country which is also
grown proportionately better than most other districts Transvaal. A Part with a mimosa and other
low forest cover and in its totality a good Grazing land for horses
and cattle.

The farms are here, too tight and we see the Gartencultur operated fairly roaring, but despite
that we all, the prosperity of only certain Farms were concentrated, stirred, so that the owner
of most of it, the Elephant Hunting had shown while the proceeds of the fertile soil of this so-rich
complaints Pleasure wasted. Legislation adopted by the Bechuanaland kings hunting ban is the
hunter To force to stay at home with their plows, which raise their material situation and in some
years offer the traveler only a picture of general prosperity in the Marico District is.

On 19 I left Zeerust in the valley of the little Marico up to the south. Once we have a Number of farms
in the valley and partly in the lateral valleys, and partly be due to the slopes and hot Quarifontein,
Quaggafontein, Kafirkraal, Graffel and Deukfontein etc., had passed, We arrived at the Hooge-Veldt
(High field), one of the largest grasslands of the South African Plateau. To the east were
the Zwart-Rugg (black ridges) are visible.

Rich and Famous Level, the eastern part of the past between the Molapo and the Hart-Wild River
levels that plateau, where the Harts River, the Molapo and Marico with many of its tributaries
spring and those in the Wonderfontein described and otherwise often mentioned Transvaal gray limestone
serves as a basis. On this plateau, the eastern part of the Hooge-Veldt, we found only on two farms,
Pit and Witfontein, which lay in small wells after the Harts River seemed to lead.

On one of the farms, the owner complained to me about the audacity of the hyenas. Such was a few
weeks earlier in the evening, when the owner was sitting in the office, entered into it. The man, who had
just read a Dutch newspaper, thought it was a dog, when his under the table lying dog that loss
jumped to the bold intruder, someone else taught. On Pitfontein we found lion tracks, and the
sons of the farmer told us that one of the in the fenced field working
Barolong servants two days earlier, early in the morning a Lion had
seen.

It was also the same day one of their calves in the "veldt" (on the plane) been found killed
by a lion. Judging from these communications, it had have been the lion and Maretsane Konanaspruit
that similar visits from the West to pay these farms, and the game-rich plains cultivated.

On Witfontein one complained of the insolence of a man who lived in Potchefstroom and temporary
travel around the country to under the pretext of finding new sources, the farmers heavy coax
money. After describing the people we had met the man, as we just entered the high plateau.
It was a sly-looking age, the prototype of a Transvaal real robber baron, with a hopeful sprouts
and Bechuanaland, the the two-wheeled cart drawn by two oxen drew.

On 22 March, we began to descend gradually and entered the valley of the Makoksspruit to the
Makok (natives) is Kraal. In the valley I found a farm and the farmer's relatives a man whom
I treated in the diamond fields. Although very destitute, tried people to entertain us. The
next day we reached the valley of the upper Schoenspruit, flowed abundantly and in the valley
to a farm after another. Between Schoenspruit Potchefstroom and we had to cross several shallow
ridges that southwestern Foothills of the Hooge-Veldt, and the Moi
River and inflows to accompany Schoen.

Among the recorded in my diary I find some of lion hunts, which are based on the Terrain between
Zeerust and Potchefstroom took place. The most interesting of them, which me in the jungle of
eastern Bamangwatolandes of the District located in Jakobsdaler Elephant hunter David Jacobs was informed
again I will tell here.

In 1863, while the ruling had in the Transvaal Republic unrest also the inhabitants of the Marico
District concerned in it, and so was a bunch of farmers taken off on horseback to Potchefstroom.


Here our horses were waiting for us; and an hour or two's ride brought us to the great sugar-hacienda
of Temisco, where we were to pass the night, for towns and inns are few and far between in
Mexico when one leaves the more populous mountain-plateaus. So much the better, for my companion
had provided himself with letters of introduction, and we had already seen something of hacienda
life, and liked it.

As we approached Temisco, we saw upon the slopes, immense fields of sugar-cane, now grown into
a dense mass, five or six feet high, most pleasant to look upon for the delicate green tint
of the leaves that belongs to no other plant. The colour of our English turf is beautiful,
and so are the tints of our English woods in spring, but our fields of grain have a dull and
dingy green compared to the sugar-cane and the young Indian corn. In this beautiful valley
we cannot charge the inhabitants with entirely neglecting the irrigation of the land. Indeed,
the culture of the sugar-cane cannot be carried on without it, and the cost of the watercourses
on the large estates has been very great. Unfortunately, even here agriculture is not flourishing.
The small number of the white inhabitants, and the distracted state of the country make both
life and property very insecure; and the brown people are becoming less and less disposed to
labour on the plantations.

It is true that most of these channels were made in old times; little new is done now, and
I could make a long list of estates that were once busy and prosperous, giving employment to
thousands of the Indian inhabitants, and that are now over-grown with weeds and falling to ruin.

Entering the iron gate of the hacienda, we found ourselves in an immense courtyard, into which
open all the principal buildings of the estate, the house of the proprietor, the church--which
forms a necessary part of every hacienda--the crushing-mill, and the boiling-houses. Into the
same great patio open the immense stables for the many riding-horses and the many hundreds
of mules that carry the sugar and rum over the mountains to market, and the tienda, the shop
of the estate, through which almost all the money paid to the labourers comes back to the proprietor
in exchange for goods. A mountain of fresh-cut canes stood near the door of the trapiche (the
crushing-mill); and a gang of Indians were constantly going backwards and forwards carrying
them in by armfuls; while a succession of mules were continually bringing in fresh supplies
from the plantation to replenish the great heap. The court-yard was littered all over, knee-deep,
with dry cane-trash; and mules, just freed from their galling saddles, were rolling on their
backs in it, kicking with all their legs at once, and evidently in a state of high enjoyment.
Part of one side of the square was a sort of wide cloister, and in it stood chairs and tables.

Here the business of the place was transacted, and the Administrador could look up from his
ledger, and see pretty well what was going on all over the establishment.

It is very common for the owners of these haciendas to be absentees, and to leave the entire
control of their estates to the administradors; but at Temisco, which is much better managed
than most others, this is not the case, and the son of the proprietor generally lives there.
He was out riding, so we sent our horses to the stable, and lounged about eating sugar-canes
till he should return. Presently he came, a young man in a broad Mexican hat and white jacket
and trousers, mounted on a splendid little horse, with his saddle glittering with silver, every
inch a planter. He welcomed us hospitably, and we sat down together in the cloister looking
out on the courtyard. Evening was closing in, and all at once the church-bell rang. Crowds
of Indian labourers in their white dresses came flocking in, hardly distinguishable in the
twilight, and the sound of their footsteps deadened as they walked over the dry stubble that
covered the ground. All work ceased, every one uncovered and knelt down; while, through the
open church-doors, we heard the Indian choir chanting the vesper hymn. In the haciendas of
Mexico every day ends thus. Many times I heard the Oración chanted at nightfall, but its effect
never diminished by repetition, and to my mind it has always seemed the most impressive of
religious services.

Then the Administrador seated himself behind a great book, and the calling over the "raya"
began. Every man in turn was called by name, and answered in a loud voice, "I praise God!;"
then saying how much he had earned in the day, for the Administrador to write down. "Juan Fernandez!"--"Alabo
a Dios, tres reales y medio:" "I praise God, one and ninepence." "José Valdes!"--"I praise
God, eighteen pence, and sixpence for the boy;" and so on, through a couple of hundred names.

Then came, not unacceptably, a little cup of pasty chocolate and a long roll for each of us.
Then Don Guillermo and our host talked about their mutual acquaintances in Mexico, and we asked
questions about sugar-planting, and walked about the boiling-house, where the night-gang of
brown men were hard at work stirring and skimming at the boiling-pans, and ladling out coarse
unrefined sugar into little earthen bowls to cool. This common sugar in bowls is very generally
used by the poorer Mexicans. The sugar-boilers were naked excepting a cotton girdle. These
men were very strong, and with great powers of endurance, but they did not at all resemble
the strong men of Europe with their great muscles standing up under their skin, the men in
Michael Angelo's pictures, or the Farnese Hercules. They are equally unlike the thin wiry Arabs,
whose strength seems so disproportionate to their lean little bodies.

The pure Mexican Indian is short and sturdy; and, until you have observed the peculiarities
of the race, you would say he was too stout and flabby to be strong. But this appearance is
caused by the immense thickness of his skin, which conceals the play of his muscles; and in
reality his strength is very great, especially in the legs and thighs, and in the muscles that
are brought into action in carrying burdens. Sartorius used to observe the Indian miners bringing
loads of above five-hundred-weight up a hundred fathoms of mine-ladders, which consist of trunks
of trees fixed slanting across the shaft, with notches cut in them for steps.

As I have said before, it is not the mere training of the individual that has produced this
remarkable development of the power of carrying loads. The centuries before the Conquest, when
there were no beasts of burden, had gradually produced a race whose bodies were admirably fitted
for such work; and the persistency with which they have clung to their old habits has done
much to prevent their losing this peculiarity.

To complete the description of the Indians which I have been led into by speaking of the sugar-boilers,--they
are chocolate-brown in colour, with curved noses, straight black hair hanging flat round their
heads and covering their wonderfully low foreheads, and occasionally a scanty black beard.
Their faces are broadly oval, their eyes far apart, and they have wide mouths with coarse lips.
Not bad faces on the whole, but heavy and unexpressive.

At ten o'clock came a heavy supper, the substantial meal of the day, and immediately afterwards
we went to bed, and dreamt such dreams as may be imagined. We were off early in the morning
with a wizened old mestizo to guide us to the ruins of Xochicalco, which are on this very estate
of Temisco. The estate is forty miles across, however, and it is a long ride to the ruins.
After we leave the fields of sugar-cane, we see scarcely a hut, nor a patch of cultivated ground.
At last we get to Xochicalco, and find ourselves at the foot of a hill, some four hundred feet
in height, extraordinarily regular in its conical shape, more so than any natural hill could
be, unless it were the cone of a volcano. At different heights upon this hill, we could see
from below broad terraces running round and round it. A little nearer we came upon a great
ditch. The sides had fallen in, in many places; sometimes it was quite filled up, and everywhere
it was overgrown with thick brushwood, as was the hill itself. It seems that this ditch runs
quite round the base of the hill, and is three miles long. Climbing up through the thicket
of thorny bushes and out upon the terraces, it became quite evident that the hill had been
artificially shaped. The terraces were built up with blocks of solid stone, and paved with
the same. On the neighbouring hills we could discern traces of more terrace-roads of the same
kind; there must be many miles of them still remaining.

But it was when we reached the summit, that we found the most remarkable part of the structure.
The top has been cut away so as to form a large level space, which was surrounded by a stone
wall, now in ruins. Inside the inclosure are several mounds of stone, doubtless burial-places,
and all that is left of the pyramid. Ruined and defaced as it is, I shall never forget our
feelings of astonishment and admiration as we pushed our way through the bushes, and suddenly
came upon it. We were quite unprepared for anything of the kind; all we knew of the place when
we started that morning being that there were some curious old ruins there.

The pyramid was composed of blocks of hewn stone, so accurately fitted together as hardly to
show the joints, and the carving goes on without interruption from one block to another. Some
of these blocks are eight feet long, and nearly three feet wide. They were laid together without
mortar, and indeed, from the construction of the building, none was required. The first storey
is about sixteen feet high, including the plinth at the bottom. Above the plinth comes a sculptured
group of figures, which is repeated in panels all round the pyramid, twice on each side. Each
panel occupies a space thirty feet long by ten in height, and the bas-reliefs project three
or four inches. There is a chief, dressed in a girdle, and with a head-dress of feathers just
like those of the Red Indians of the north. Below the girdle he terminates in a scroll. In
the middle of the group is what may perhaps be a palm-tree, with a rabbit at its foot. Close
to the tree, and reaching nearly to the same height, is a figure with a crocodile's head wearing
a crown, and with drapery in parallel lines, like the wings of the creatures in the Assyrian
bas-reliefs. Indeed this may very likely be a conventional representation of the robes of feather-work
so characteristic of Mexico.

Above these bas-reliefs is a frieze between three and four feet high, with another sculptured
panel repeated eight times on each side of the pyramid. This remarkable sculpture represents
a man sitting barefoot and crosslegged. On his head is a kind of crown or helmet, with a plume
of feathers; and from the front of this helmet there protrudes a serpent, just where in the
Egyptian sculptures the royal basilisk is fixed on the crowns of kings and queens. The eyes
of this personage are protected by round plates with holes in the middle, held on by a strap
round the head, like the coloured glasses used in the United States to keep off the glare of
the sun, and known as "goggles." In front of this figure are sculptured a rabbit and some unintelligible
ornaments or weapons. "Rabbit" may have been his name.

The frieze is surmounted by a cornice; and above the cornice of the second storey enough remains
to show that it was covered with reliefs, in the same way as the first There were five storeys
originally: the others have only been destroyed about a century. 

"What is the meaning of the obscure answer," he whispered to himself - and quickly righting he asked
in a loud piercing voice:

"Sounded the death greeting the dying of the victorious Caesar is?"

Several minutes passed - the table remained motionless.

"The mind is not responding," said Mademoiselle Lesueur, - "it would
be in vain to ask him further. - Allow your Majesty that I thank him
and let him go?

The emperor bowed deeply his head in thought.

Mademoiselle Lesueur
said their quiet formula - the Kaiser folded his hands in reverent
Silence.

"Would your majesty another Citation," asked the young lady.

"Thank
you, Madam," said Napoleon, rising by his face again his usual calm
expression adopted. Humboldt remarks
that the same undeviating reproduction of fixed models is as striking in the Mexican sculptures
done since the Conquest. The clumsy outlines of the rude figures of saints brought from Europe
in the 16th century were adopted as models by the native sculptors, and have lasted without
change to this day.

It is evident that Xochicalco answered several purposes. It was a fortified hill of great strength,
also a sacred shrine, and a burial-place for men of note, whose bodies, no doubt, still lie
under the ruined cairns near the pyramid. The magnitude of the ditch and the terraces, as well
as the great size of the blocks of stone brought up the hill without the aid of beasts of burden,
indicate a large population and a despotic government. The beauty of the masonry and sculpture
show that the people who erected this monument had made no small progress in the arts. We must
remember, too, that they had no iron, but laboriously cut and polished the hardest granite
and porphyry with instruments of stone and bronze; we can hardly tell how. The Prussians were masters of all the defiles
the Black Forest. "

"Read more," said the emperor, while the Prince Napoleon wringing his hands.

The Marshal Leboeuf read:

"The Commandant-General of the Fourth Corps
to the War Ministry in Paris.

The Fourth Corps has neither Cantine, Ambulance or equipment. Everything
is completely exposed. "

"Next," the emperor said, cold and short.

The
Marshal read the following telegram:

"The director of the Sixth Corps
to the War Ministry in Paris. But the model of this border may have been suggested--on
either side of the globe--by creepers twined together in the forest, or by a cord doubled and
twisted, such as is represented in one of the commonest Egyptian hieroglyphs.

