The Elimination of Waste Material.--As we might expect from the loss in body weight, the excretory
organs are particularly active during the lying-in period. In quantity the loss of water exceeds
all the other waste-products together; and pronounced activity of the kidneys or of the sweat
glands may become a source of annoyance. Since it is undesirable to interfere with these functions,
whatever inconvenience either may cause will be borne with less complaint if the patient understands
that a large loss of water at this time indicates a healthful condition of the body.

Shortly after delivery there may be difficulty in emptying the bladder; and, under such circumstances,
the doctor or nurse used to catheterize the patient immediately; this habit once begun, it
was often necessary to repeat the operation day after day, or, for that matter, several times
a day. But as physicians came to know more of the relations of bacteria to inflammation of
the bladder, they grew more cautious, and preferred to wait a long time before resorting to
the catheter. The reward of this patience was to find that, with remarkably few exceptions,
puerperal women ultimately void of their own accord. Accordingly catheterization after child-birth
is now postponed, and is never performed until a number of devices to get the patient to void
spontaneously have been tried without success. Often urination follows putting a hot-water
bottle over the bladder; or pouring warm water over the vulva; or placing the patient upon
a bed-pan from which steam is rising. When these and other devices well known to every nurse
are not effective, catheterization becomes necessary. With the elaborate precautions taken
to avoid infection of the bladder, catheterization is now performed with very slight risk.

Constipation, for various reasons, becomes a regular feature of the lying-in period. The confinement
in bed, restricted diet, relaxation of the abdominal wall, and sensitiveness about the region
of the rectum, all have a tendency to prevent spontaneous movements of the bowels. As one of
these influences after another is removed the bowels begin to act naturally. Childbirth may
cause chronic constipation, but this sequel would occur much less often if a little care were
taken to prevent it.

The routine use of enemas deserves to be condemned. I see no objection to an occasional enema
if purgative medicine has been taken without effect, but constant use of them, more than likely,
will result in the enema habit. Similarly, long-continued administration of strong purgatives
tends to make them a permanent necessity. While in bed if medicine is taken every other day
the bowels will have opportunity on the intervening days to move spontaneously, though we do
not really expect them to move naturally until six or eight weeks after the delivery, when
the patient is able to take as much exercise as she likes. Toward the end of the second week,
however, mild laxatives generally prove effective, and it is important to select one the dose
of which may be gradually decreased. Senna prunes, which were described in Chapter V, fill
the purpose very well. Six or eight of them may be needed at first, but the number may be gradually
reduced, until finally none are necessary.

Cleanliness.--In view of the excessive elimination of waste products from the body, the maintenance
of cleanliness during the lying-in period may require the use of a large amount of linen. Occasionally
patients perspire so freely that the night clothes have to be changed several times in twenty-four
hours, and the bed linen only a little less frequently. But at any cost it is imperative not
to hinder but rather to promote this function and to keep the skin in a healthful condition
through bathing and massage. Nurses are taught, on this account, to give a warm soap and water
bed-bath in the morning and an alcohol rub at night. Patients are usually allowed to take tub-baths
after the third week.

Local cleanliness, which is a matter of the very first importance, can only be attained through
bathing the vulva with an antiseptic solution and the use of sterile pads. At first the pads
are changed very frequently, but after the discharge becomes less profuse they are renewed
at intervals of four to six hours.

The Diet.--For the first week of the lying-in period not all patients are given the same diet,
and the physician always leaves specific directions regarding it. Generally the diet consists
of liquids, such as milk and broths, for a couple of days; under some circumstances liquid
nourishment is continued longer. As the appetite increases easily digestible but nutritious
food is added, and before long the patient resumes her ordinary diet.

The modern tendency is to give solid food and to give it in substantial amounts much earlier
than was once customary; restrictions, none the less, are still observed so long as the patient
remains in bed. With the body at rest, its food requirements are diminished and hearty meals
are unnecessary. If convalescence proceeds satisfactorily such wide latitude in the choice
of food is permissible that the nurse may regulate the diet, consulting the physician whenever
necessary.

The Environment.--A large, bright room that can be quickly heated and easily ventilated adds
notably to the comfort of the lying-in period. The windows may be opened through the greater
part of the day and at night should always be left so. To make thorough airing of the apartment
more feasible and to protect the mother from annoyance when the baby cries, it is more satisfactory
to have the baby occupy an adjoining room where the nurse sleeps within call. Under any circumstances
some arrangement must be made so that the mother's rest at night will not be broken needlessly.

No pains should be spared to keep the patient quiet for at least ten days. Household cares
and petty worries materially delay convalescence. During this period only a limited number
of the immediate members of her family ought to see her, and their visits should be brief.
Unfortunately, if too many relatives and friends visit her a number of questions will be repeatedly
asked which are decidedly wearing on any patient.

The Time for Getting Up.--How long a woman should stay in bed after the birth of a child is
a question which has given rise to prolonged discussion. The majority of obstetricians adhere
to the traditional ten days; but there are advocates of a longer period and advocates of a
shorter one. The generalizations of many writers upon this subject are too sweeping, for exceptions
may be found to any rule. Each patient is best counselled when the advice given is based upon
her own condition and particularly upon the progress made in the involution of the uterus,
which does not advance with the same rapidity in all cases.

More or less in imitation of the custom among savages, Charles White, in 1776, recommended
that women should not remain in bed longer than a day or two after child-birth. Very likely
the inadaptability of the method to civilized women soon became apparent; at any rate his suggestion
was not widely adopted, and had been completely forgotten until a few years ago, when the custom
was revived in one of the German clinics. The innovation met with violent opposition in Europe,
and, so far as I know, has found but scant favor in America.

Generally patients are allowed to sit up in bed toward the end of the first week, but if there
are stitches, sitting up is deferred until ten days or later, when the stitches have been removed.
Under the most favorable circumstances, however, sitting up in bed becomes wearisome, for the
weight of the body does not fall upon the spine, as it should; and besides the extended position
of the legs is fatiguing. No one should force herself to keep this posture, for at best it
does no more than relieve monotony. The exercises previously suggested prepare her much more
effectually for getting upon her feet.

Between the tenth and the fifteenth day patients may leave the bed and sit quietly in a chair.
The condition of the uterus, the character of the lochia, and the firmness of the pelvic floor
will determine the day, but usually it proves wiser to defer it until fully two weeks have
lapsed. As a rule, the patient remains out of bed an hour the first day, two the second, three
the third, and so on until she is up all day. She should not attempt to walk until the second
or third day. At first she should take only a few steps, but gradually she may increase the
number and finally walk with freedom and ease. Several reasons make it advisable for patients
to remain four weeks on the floor where they have been confined; going up and down stairs is
especially tiresome, and, of still greater importance, patients pass from the doctor's control
as soon as they go down stairs. For fear of overtaxing the strength none of the household cares
should be assumed before the fourth week, and not all of them then, for women are not capable
of resuming their accustomed duties fully until the sixth week; and some are not strong enough
to do so until a somewhat later date.

Since patients generally feel well during the lying-in period they are apt to object to remaining
in bed two weeks. Most of them acquiesce as soon as they understand the organic changes in
progress and appreciate the lasting benefits of a temporary forbearance, but a few must be
made to realize that very serious penalties may be attached to undue haste. For the latter
it might be better if the alarming consequences of getting up too early--discomfort, hemorrhage,
and collapse--occurred more frequently than they do. As it happens, the ill-effects of such
indiscretion are not usually felt immediately; when too late the lesson is learned that many
of the operations upon women in the later years of life are dependent on imprudent conduct
just after the first child was born.

THE FINAL EXAMINATION.--Looking to complete restoration of the woman's health, the modern management
of obstetrical cases breaks decisively with tradition at three points. An utter disregard of
precaution has given way to very careful preparations before and at the time of labor; definite
rules for the management of the lying-in period are carried out under the supervision of the
physician; and finally, prompted by the same impulse, the physician examines his obstetrical
patients before discharging them. Satisfactory conditions are generally found; if they are,
it is a great comfort to be assured of the fact; and if not, timely treatment of the abnormality
may readily correct it; with delay, on the other hand, treatment often becomes more formidable.

The end of the fourth week of the lying-in period proves a convenient time for this examination.
As yet the restorative changes in the reproductive organs have not been completed, but one
may definitely say by this time whether or not they will culminate in a satisfactory manner.
Besides, making the examination while the changes are in progress sometimes enables the physician
to treat approaching complications before they actually develop. Thus, when the pelvic floor
has not regained its strength sufficiently, the patient will be advised to forego the liberty
in moving about ordinarily granted at this time. When the womb inclines to an improper position,
a temporary support may be introduced to hold it where it belongs; later, upon removing the
device, the womb usually retains a good position. Again, there are conditions which a douche
will relieve, and still others benefited by medicinal treatment. If an abnormality is recognized
which cannot at once be treated to the best advantage, arrangements will be made for such prompt
treatment that the woman will not become an invalid. Instead of placing obstacles in the way,
patients should rather insist upon this examination, for it is important in guarding their
future health.

Now and then patients are kept under observation for a longer period, but, as a rule, they
are discharged as well as examined at the end of four weeks. They may also discard the abdominal
binder about this time and put on corsets, which, however, should not be tightly worn. Although
thrown upon her own resources from this moment, the patient will clearly understand that she
must continue to exercise sound discrimination in what she does. And here, of course, we encounter
the greatest difficulty in offering practical advice, for what one may do easily will overtax
another. Generally speaking, going up and down stairs more than once a day is inadvisable until
another two weeks have passed. Likewise the mother who would adopt a conservative policy will
not take full charge of her baby before it is six weeks old, though there can be no objection
if she wishes to direct its care. The same advice applies to running the household. Over- exertion,
no matter what the source, delays convalescence from child- birth to such an extent that the
safe plan is always to err on the side of doing too little, rather than to run the risk of
doing too much.

CHAPTER XII

THE NURSING MOTHER

The Breasts--Human Milk--The Technique of Nursing--Hygiene of the Mother: Diet; Psychic Influence;
Recreation and Rest--The Supplementary Bottle--Weaning.

When the obstetrician pays his final visit the mother usually has ready a number of questions,
most of which anticipate difficulties in the care of the baby. At that time, however, minute
and far-reaching directions cannot always be given. Unforeseen peculiarities in the development
of the child may modify such general principles for the management of infants as could be laid
down in advance. With a few exceptions, therefore, mothers require during the early years of
a baby's life skilled advice as to his upbringing--advice for which neither instinct nor haphazard
counsel is a safe substitute. It is an excellent plan, and one which is becoming more and more
popular, to have a physician supervise the care of the baby through the period of most active
growth. According to this plan, the mother, even though her baby is well and developing as
it should, consults the physician at regular intervals, once a month for example, and upon
these occasions secures help in solving problems which are certain to present themselves. Such
an arrangement shows a merited appreciation of the proverbial "ounce of prevention," and when
serious difficulties do arise materially counteracts the tendency to panic which is exhibited
by so many young mothers.

Among the problems which the mother must solve, that of nutrition outranks all others in importance;
and unless the infant is nourished with human milk, it also exceeds them in perplexity. For,
although great advances have been made in artificial feeding, science has not yet removed all
the intricacies and dangers involved in the use of the bottle. On the other hand, mothers who
nurse their babies rarely meet with difficulty. Human milk is perfectly adapted to the wants
of the infant; and all substitutes, though carefully designed to duplicate it, are only partially
successful. We have learned how to modify cow's milk so that in chemical constituents, at least,
it is a very close imitation of human milk; but human milk possesses, in addition to its chemical
properties, other desirable qualities which cannot be instilled into an artificial food. We
must agree, therefore, that attempts to disseminate a wider knowledge of the correct principles
of bottle-feeding do not have the highest aim. Our real need is a vastly greater proportion
of women who nurse their children.

THE BREASTS.--For success in nursing the first essential is healthful breasts. With this the
largeness or smallness of a breast has nothing to do, for size is no more an index of its capacity
for producing milk than is the weight of a woman an index of her energy. The breast is not
a warehouse, but a factory, with very limited storage capacity for its product. Differences
of size are generally to be explained by the variable amount of fatty-tissue the breast contains.
And so far as the secretion of milk is concerned the fat is entirely passive; it fills in the
space between the glandular elements; and a layer of fat just beneath the skin protects the
glands against external influences that otherwise might disturb their activity. Stripped of
their fatty envelope the structures which actually secrete the milk and convey it to the nipple
resemble a miniature cluster of grapes. Each tiny, spherical gland corresponds to one of the
grapes and contains a cavity lined with cells which manufacture the milk. From this cavity
the milk flows through a microscopic tube which unites with similar tubes to form a larger
one; this in turn joins others of its kind; and so on, until ultimately the milk enters a relatively
large duct-- the figurative stem of the cluster--which conducts the milk to its destination.
There are from ten to fifteen of these terminal ducts; each drains a separate group of glands,
but all end in the nipple.

Shortly after conception the breasts become congested; in consequence they enlarge, become
tender, and begin to show swollen veins beneath the skin. The most significant alteration,
however, occurs in the cells which line the glands; these increase in size at first; and then,
by a process of cell division, their number multiplies. After pregnancy has advanced six to
eight weeks these cells begin to elaborate the thin, watery fluid called colostrum. Contrary
to popular belief, the quantity of colostrum is not prophetic of the character of the milk;
there is no ill-omen, to be sure, in a plentiful secretion, but a meager one is quite as likely
to be followed by successful lactation. At present we are unable to predict by any means either
the quantity or the quality of the milk which a prospective mother will produce.

Some writers contend that influences which come into play during girlhood ultimately affect
the capacity of the breast for making milk; for example, irregular habits in youth and the
wearing of improper styles of clothing are said to be particularly detrimental influences.
Of course, a healthful mode of life at the time when a girl is approaching maturity reacts
favorably upon her development in every way, and naturally enough the breasts share this benefit;
but the relation between unhygienic habits at about the time of puberty and a subsequent deficiency
in lactation has been exaggerated by many writers. It is impracticable, certainly, to institute
special measures to prepare the breasts for their function until the need of such measures
is clearly evident. Throughout pregnancy clothing about the breasts should be loosely worn.
If the nipples are not already prominent they should be drawn out; and about six or eight weeks
before confinement is expected they should be given the treatment described in Chapter V.

For the first day or so after the infant begins to nurse its efforts have a tendency to injure
the skin which covers the nipple; and unless measures to render the nipple resistant have been
previously adopted, nursing may cause the mother considerable discomfort. Moreover, it is extremely
important throughout lactation to keep the skin covering the nipple free from abrasions, for
if it cracks bacteria have thus an opportunity to enter the glands and set up an acute inflammation
which may result in the formation of an abscess. This complication is to be avoided, not only
because of the unpleasant symptoms which attend it, but also because for the time it brings
the usefulness of the breast to an end. Fortunately an abscess seldom impairs the breast permanently.

At any period of lactation there may be an overproduction of milk. In this event the breasts
are likely to become distended, hard, and very tender. Most frequently "caked breasts," as
this condition is called, develop a few days after delivery, when the secretion of milk is
just beginning, for at first the secretion is more plentiful than need be. Generally twenty-four
hours later there is an adjustment between the supply of nourishment and the natural demands
of the infant. Occasionally a longer interval elapses before the breast is completely emptied
at each nursing.

Formerly it was customary, whenever the breasts became tense and uncomfortable, to express
an excess of milk by means of massage; but this mode of treatment lost favor as soon as physicians
realized that massage stimulated the glands to greater activity. Drawing the milk with a breast-pump
has a somewhat similar though less potent influence, and, because pumping often affords relief
when the breasts are distended, there is rarely any objection to it. In the light of modern
experience, however, most physicians prefer to avoid manipulation of the breast so far as possible,
and generally resort to other measures to relieve the mother's discomfort. Thus most patients
are made comfortable if an appropriate bandage is used to transfer the weight of the breasts
from the arm-pits and the front of the chest to the bones of the shoulder-girdle. It may be
necessary also in some cases to swathe the breasts in warm cloths; in others cold applications
are more acceptable; the choice between these methods will vary with the time of year, and
usually may be left to the patient herself. Now and then medicine will be employed to relieve
the pain, but the administration of drugs to diminish the production of milk is inadvisable.
It is never very long before the amount of milk becomes adjusted to the infant's wants, and
then distention disappears spontaneously. No artifice can bring about the adjustment as ideally
as nature does.

During the later months of lactation the liability of the breasts to over-filling is slight,
provided the infant empties them regularly and completely. Nevertheless, so long as a mother
is nursing her child she must be careful to keep the breasts in a healthful condition. They
require support, yet must not be compressed. And they should be covered with clothing which
will adequately protect them from sudden changes of temperature. This latter precaution, perhaps,
requires more emphasis than formerly, on account of the present popularity of motoring; for
the chill which one experiences when driving fast may have a very unpleasant effect upon a
nursing mother unless her breasts are carefully protected. Occasionally fever and neuralgic
pains in the breasts are caused by motoring, or by exposure to the air-current from an electric
fan playing directly upon them. But even under these circumstances an abscess need not be feared
unless the nipples are sore.

Human Milk.--Between the time of birth and the beginning of lactation there is always an interval
during which the breasts secrete colostrum, just as they do throughout pregnancy. Although
the nutritional value of this fluid is not great, it is doubtful if colostrum serves any other
essential purpose than as nourishment. Possibly it also stimulates the intestines to expel
the material which has collected within, them during fetal development, yet we know the bowels
will move without a purgative; and often do so long before the infant is placed at the breast.
Typically, the secretion of milk begins the third day after delivery; yet in perfectly normal
patients it may appear as early as the second or as late as the fifth, and occasionally lactation
does not begin until the baby is more than a week old.

As to what starts the secretion of milk we have only a vague idea; but we know that when the
flow is once established its continuation depends primarily upon the sucking efforts of the
infant. If nursing is discontinued the secretion dwindles and the breasts dry up. On the other
hand, the strong, persistent stimulus of the infant's suckling gradually brings the secretion
to a high degree of efficiency. Within the first two weeks, therefore, the daily secretion
increases from a few ounces to a pint or more. Subsequently the output fluctuates between one
and two quarts daily, according to the demands made upon the breasts; the secretion is larger,
consequently, if there are twins. Astounding yields of milk have been recorded, as in the case
of a wet-nurse in a German institution who nursed a number of infants and became capable of
supplying three to four quarts daily.

That newborn infants thrive better on human milk than on any other nourishment is a conviction
that must come home to every one who has had even a limited experience. It keeps the babies
in health, serves to make them grow, and promotes the development of all their organs as nothing
else will. Because there are present in this fluid all the elements necessary for nutrition,
physiologists have called it a perfect food. Quantitatively its most important ingredient is
water, which constitutes about 86 per cent. of its weight. It also contains about 7 per cent.
of milk-sugar, 4 per cent. of butter fat, 2 per cent. of protein, and 0.2 per cent. of mineral
matter.

The milk of all animals contains a relatively small quantity of mineral matter; judged from
this standpoint, the mineral matter would seem of minor importance, but it is actually as vital
as any other constituent. Without it the bones would hot harden properly; and other services
which it performs are absolutely essential to life. As we should expect, human milk contains
all the mineral ingredients necessary for the development of the infant; indeed, with the single
exception of iron, they are present in the precise amounts in which they are needed. In this
omission, however, nature is guilty of no oversight, since the infant has already been provided
by the time of birth with a rich supply of iron.

THE TECHNIQUE OF NURSING.--Since the mother should have opportunity to recuperate from the
fatigue of labor, physicians generally recommend that an interval of at least twelve hours
elapse between the birth of the infant and the time it is first put to the breast. Moreover,
the best interests of the infant demand that it be kept warm and left undisturbed while becoming
accustomed to its new environment. There is no immediate need of food; and if there were, nature
does not fit the mother to supply it, for at this time the breasts contain merely small quantities
of colostrum.

Some babies nurse vigorously at the outset, but later, discouraged because they get so little,
become indifferent and restless, or even decline to take the breast. And the mother, who is
handicapped by inexperience and by the awkwardness of nursing in a recumbent position, often
feels desperate. Fortunately technical difficulties are confined to the first few days, and,
trying as they sometimes are, no one should be discouraged or imagine that she is incapable
of nursing; for practically every woman who persists will succeed.

For a week or ten days the mother will nurse in the recumbent posture. She turns to one side
or the other, according as the right or left breast is used, and holds the corresponding arm
to receive and support the baby, which will lie beside her. Then with the opposite hand she
holds the breast, placing her thumb above and her fingers below so as to keep it from the baby's
face, for only in this way can the infant breathe freely. One must also remember that the infant
draws the milk into the terminal ducts chiefly with the back of its mouth, and drains the ducts
by compressing the base of the nipple with its jaws; the infant therefore should take into
its mouth not only the nipple, but also the areola, the area of deeply colored skin round about
it. Mothers frequently disregard these directions, and the failure of their infants to nurse
properly may be thus explained, for it is impossible to secure undisturbed nursing unless they
are obeyed.

Generally the breasts are employed alternately, but both may be used at each nursing if one
is insufficient. To fix the duration of the nursings arbitrarily is impossible; from ten to
fifteen minutes generally proves satisfactory, but in each case systematic observations of
the change in the baby's weight, of the character of its stools, and of its general condition
must determine how long to leave it at the breast. The common error, unfortunately, is to be
over-indulgent, and, as a result, infants are more frequently ill because the nursings are
too long, than too short. Furthermore, the duration of the feedings can never be gauged accurately
if the infant is allowed to nap while nursing.

The successful training of a baby begins with the development of regular habits of nursing.
The old-fashioned custom of allowing the baby to nurse whenever it cried, tacitly--and incorrectly--assumed
that it could have no other sensation than hunger. As a matter of fact an infant may have pain
from overfeeding. Again, it may be thirsty, or uncomfortable from the pricking of a pin, from
the monotony of one position, from a soiled napkin, or from neglect of many simple details
in its care. Any of these things make a baby cry, for it has no other means by which it can
express disapproval.

So long as the breasts contain colostrum the nursings should be at least three hours apart
during the day; at night it is preferable not to disturb the mother at all. As soon as milk
appears the interval is usually shortened to two hours during the day. In many cases, however,
the three-hour interval will be retained even after the milk appears, for otherwise the infant
may not become hungry and will fail to nurse as strongly as it should. The following schedule
is adapted to the average infant:

           Age                 Interval During     Total Number
                                   the Day          of Feedings
  From  1st  to    4th week       2      hours            9
    "   4th   "    8th  "         2-1/2    "              8
    "   2nd   "    4th month      3        "              7
    "   4th   "   10th   "        3        "              6
    "  10th   "   12th   "        4        "              5

After the first few days most young infants require one feeding in the middle of the night,
which is usually given about 2 A.M. The day feedings then begin at 6 A.M., and are repeated
at regular intervals until 9 or 10 P.M. The daily bath should be scheduled so that a feeding
will be due just after the bath has been completed. If asleep when the next succeeding feeding
falls due, the infant should not be waked, but at other times nothing should interfere with
the regularity of the schedule. Occasionally there may be difficulty in getting the child to
nurse during the day, but it must be taught to do so; otherwise it will want to nurse throughout
the night.

At no time should an infant remain in the bed with its mother after it has finished nursing;
at night this rule must be rigidly enforced, for mothers have been known to fall asleep and
smother the baby, an accident known as over-lying. Infants can frequently be trained to go
without feeding in the middle of the night even when a month old; and such training is always
advisable, since it affords the mother opportunity for six or eight hours' continuous sleep.

Before and after each nursing the mothers' nipple should be cleansed with a solution of boric
acid made by placing a tablespoonful of the powder in a tumbler which is then filled with water.
Such cleansing protects the breasts against infection, a complication which the nursing mother
must spare no pains to prevent. Now and then, in spite of conscientious efforts to harden them,
the nipples become sore. If they crack, the baby's mouth must not come in direct contact with
them, since nursing with a cracked nipple is a common source of a gathered breast. Fortunately
when a nipple cracks we may employ a shield, obtainable at any drug-store, which enables the
infant to nurse without any danger to the mother. Most babies will take the shield as well
as the breast itself; nevertheless, its use should be discontinued as soon as the nipple heals,
for while the shield is used the secretion of milk is not stimulated as vigorously as when
the infant nurses directly from the breast. In the rare cases in which the shield cannot be
used satisfactorily the infant must be taken from the breast temporarily and given a bottle.
Radical as this advice may appear, the mother must consent to follow it, for, as I have pointed
out, to permit an infant to nurse a cracked nipple is extremely hazardous. When treatment is
begun promptly the cracks will generally heal within twenty-four hours.

HYGIENE OF THE MOTHER.--Since the mammary glands manufacture their product from the constituents
of the mother's blood and their activity is controlled by her nerves, it is clear that her
physical condition and her state of mind will influence the secretion of milk. Intelligent
women who understand this desire to know how they should live that they may best insure an
ample supply of good milk. Fortunately the first important step toward success has been taken
when a mother wishes to nurse her baby; but there are also necessary wholesome food, habits
conducive to health, and a mind free from worry.

It is unfortunate that current beliefs throw many restrictions about nursing-mothers which
are unreasonable and unsupported by scientific investigation. There was a time when mothers
did not question their ability to nurse, they assumed this duty as a matter of course. Indeed,
they were compelled to do so, since refined methods of artificial feeding had not as yet been
devised. Among the agricultural class, even to-day, it is exceptional for mothers to fail to
nurse their children, if they are provided with the ordinary comforts of life. But women who
live at the higher tension of city life are frequently unsuccessful, because they are more
inclined to be nervous or because they disregard, among other things, the need of fresh air,
plain food, or regular habits. It is wrong to suppose that elaborate rules of conduct are necessary
for nursing mothers; the instruction they require is simple and scarcely different from that
to be given anyone who desires good health. If she lead a wholesome existence a woman will
not only nurse her child successfully but will gain in strength.

Diet.--In manufacturing centers, where a large proportion of the women are employed in confining
work, the percentage of mothers who are able to nurse their children is exceedingly small;
consequently the infant mortality is very high. Better nourishment for the mother, it has seemed,
would render her more capable of successful lactation, and would decrease or even eliminate
badly executed artificial feeding, and would therefore reduce the death rate among the babies.
In a few foreign cities the idea has been put into practice. Free restaurants have been established
for working mothers, and they have thus been enabled to perform their maternal duties much
more successfully. Incidentally it has been shown that nourishment may be supplied mother and
infant at a smaller cost than proper artificial food for the infant alone.

The quantity of nourishment required by nursing mothers is not so large as might be expected,
and in many instances it is over-feeding rather than under-feeding that must be guarded against.
Very accurate observations have been made which indicate that during the early weeks of nursing
no more food is needed than at other times; in all probability this remains true throughout
the whole period of lactation. Over-eating, as many of us know, is a frequent cause of indigestion.
It is of the first importance, therefore, that nursing mothers should not take more food than
they can assimilate, for indigestion will provoke disturbances in the milk which in turn will
make the baby uncomfortable. For a similar reason mothers should have their meals at regular
intervals.

As a rule the appetite is a reliable guide not only as to how much to eat, but also as to the
choice of food, for without exception what is good for the mother is good also for the child.
Generally the diet should be a mixed one, consisting of milk, gruels, soups, vegetables, bread,
and meat. In order that monotony may not dull the appetite, no one article of food should be
employed continuously. With this exception food should be selected with regard only for its
wholesomeness and digestibility. All food is milk-making food; no sharp distinctions between
the various kinds can be recognized. Milk, because it contains all the elements necessary for
perfect nutrition, is particularly wholesome. Water also, since it forms such a large proportion
of their milk, should be taken freely by nursing mothers. Generally it proves advantageous
to take milk or some other nutritious drink between meals and again before retiring at night,
but the danger of ruining in this way the appetite for solid food must not be overlooked.

It ought to be unnecessary to say that a nursing mother should deny herself any article of
food, no matter how much she may want it, if she knows it will disagree with her; but she must
remember also that the same article of food will not necessarily disagree with other mothers.
Generalizations of this kind are largely responsible for the wrongful tendency to reject from
the dietary many altogether harmless articles. There would be little left for a nursing mother
to eat if she avoided every article of food which one person or another assures her will damage
her milk.

No belief regarding what a nursing mother should eat is held more widely, I suppose, than that
she should abstain from salads, tomatoes, and fruits which contain acid. This view is erroneous.
The very idea upon which it is based is incorrect, since acids are neutralized as soon as they
pass from the stomach to the intestines and cannot enter the milk. With certain persons some
varieties of fruit invariably cause indigestion. Lactation does not correct such an individual
peculiarity, and a nursing mother who knows she possesses it will act accordingly. Occasionally
those who have no such idiosyncrasy worry after they have eaten something which contains an
acid because they have heard it will do harm. In such cases it is the mental state of the woman
which disturbs her milk and upsets the baby. With the exception of those who have such an idiosyncrasy
and those inclined to worry, nursing mothers may partake of fruits and salads with impunity.

There are vegetables, of which the onion and turnip are good examples, that contain ingredients
that find their way unaltered into the milk. So long as these do not disturb the mother their
presence has no unfavorable influence upon the child. Similarly a number of substances appear
in the milk when administered as medicine to the mother. In one way this is fortunate, for
under certain circumstances it provides a very satisfactory method of treating unhealthy children
without giving the medicine directly. In another respect, however, it is a disadvantage, for
it sometimes interferes with giving the mother purgatives, which she may need. So far as possible,
therefore, the taking of medicine should be limited during lactation, and certainly no drug
should be employed without the advice of a physician.

Time and again some drug, some beverage, usually one that contains alcohol, or some special
article of food has been recommended as a means of increasing an inadequate secretion of milk,
but thus far all attempts in this direction have failed of general application. There are at
present on the market widely advertised preparations for which astounding efficiency is claimed.
None of them, however, has a definite or consistent value; and it is unfortunately true that
no substance has yet been discovered that has the specific action of increasing the production
of milk.

Psychic Influence.--Although the nerves of the breast which regulate the secretion of milk
do their work whether the mother wills it or not, her state of mind has an influence over the
process, just as it has over digestion. No one doubts that our minds influence our digestions
as has been so clearly proved by the skillful experiments of Pawlow, an eminent Russian physiologist.
Cheerfulness promotes perfect assimilation of the food, whereas mental depression decreases
the secretion of the digestive juices or checks them altogether. In a similar way, perhaps,
we shall some day have explained to us the unquestioned fact that mothers who maintain a happy
disposition nurse their babies efficiently, while those who are inclined to worry often experience
real or imaginary troubles with lactation.

The most striking manifestations of such psychic influences are those in which, as a result
of some strong passion or deep sorrow, the secretion of milk suddenly ceases altogether. Fortunately
such effects occur rarely and are never permanent. After a few hours at most the secretion
is reestablished; and if there are alterations in the quality of the milk, these will correct
themselves just as quickly.

More common, and therefore much more important, are cases in which, because the mother allows
herself day after day to worry over one thing or another, the secretion of milk suffers permanent
disturbance in quantity or in quality. Sometimes worrying lest the milk will be unsatisfactory
causes it to become so. Generally, however, unnecessary anxiety for the baby is to blame. Again
and again, when there is really nothing out of the way, inexperienced mothers make themselves
miserable because they fear something may go wrong. Such a state of mind always invites trouble;
not infrequently it is the direct cause of insufficient or unwholesome milk. The self-assurance
gained through taking care of the first baby is responsible more than anything else for the
greater success mothers have in nursing subsequent children.

The mother who is nursing her first baby should take success for granted, and never mistrust
her ability to succeed. If the physician has been asked to visit the baby regularly, as was
suggested at the beginning of this chapter, he will quickly detect the evidence of failure
should failure be imminent. His opinions should be accepted and his directions followed, for
by so doing the mother will most readily acquire the assurance which is so necessary to success.
The habit, easily fallen into, of paying attention to promiscuous advice is unwholesome, for
such advice is injudiciously given and is usually incorrect. More often than not the counsel
of well-meaning friends only serves to perplex and distress the mother.

Recreation and Rest.--Next to worry no influence upon lactation is more detrimental than neglect
of recreation and rest. Both are very necessary to a nursing mother, for without them she will
soon begin to exaggerate minor troubles and even to worry though nothing is wrong. A mother
who has the care of a baby added to other responsibilities may have extraordinary difficulty
in finding time for outdoor exercise, for congenial companionship, or for diversion of any
kind. Occasionally it may seem almost impossible even to get time for sleep, a necessity so
fundamental to health that, as we should expect, a mother deprived of it would fail utterly
in nursing her infant. Difficult as it may seem, however, the mother must find time for recreation,
for if she does not there will follow disturbances, generally in the quantity, or sometimes
in the quality, of her milk.

Keeping in mind that whatever benefits the mother will react favorably upon the infant, one
should regulate exercise during lactation with regard to the kind and the amount of exercise
to which she has been previously accustomed. Walking usually fulfils all the requirements satisfactorily,
and there is ordinarily no reason why nursing mothers should not participate in sports that
are unattended by violent exertion. Exhausting sports, however, must be shunned, because fatigue
has the same injurious effect upon the secretion of milk as lack of exercise.

As might be expected, women who are frail are most susceptible to the strain of nursing, especially
if they fail to get sufficient rest. All nursing mothers ought to have at least eight hours
of sleep in the twenty-four. The night-feeding, generally advisable for the first six to eight
weeks, does not break the mother's rest longer than half an hour if the baby is well trained.
But if a baby that has not been properly trained turns night into day and keeps the mother
awake for long intervals, the milk will quickly deteriorate. Under such circumstances someone
must relieve the mother of the care of the infant during the night; she should not be disturbed
even to nurse it. The night-feeding will then be supplied artificially; as will also one feeding
during the day in order that the mother may have opportunity for exercise and diversion.

THE SUPPLEMENTARY BOTTLE.--At first glance it may seem that in the suggestion that the infant
be given one artificial feeding each day the mother's comfort alone has been considered. As
a matter of fact, however, the adoption of the plan benefits mother and infant alike. The diversion
and recreation which the mother, thus relieved of her maternal duties for from four to six
hours, has time to secure becomes a direct benefit to the infant. Not infrequently by pursuing
this plan, mothers who would otherwise be incapable of nursing are assured successful lactation.
The child, moreover, having thus become accustomed to the bottle, is much more easily denied
the breast when the time for weaning comes.

Objections have been raised to giving the baby even one bottle when the mother has an ample
supply of milk, but none of them are valid. Since cow's milk is acknowledged to be less easy
of digestion than is human milk, it will occur to someone that there is danger of upsetting
the baby by giving it a bottle. But this need not be feared; extensive experience has shown
that if an infant is getting human milk of satisfactory quality at all its feedings during
the twenty-four hours, save one or two, at these times it will digest properly modified cow's
milk without the least inconvenience. Nor is it true that if once a day cow's milk is substituted
for that of the mother, the infant will come to prefer the bottle to the breast. There is no
danger, on the other hand, that the mother's milk will dry up. Very thorough investigation
of these objections has failed to substantiate them in the least.

Of course, it will be necessary in preparing the supplementary feeding to take the same precautions
as if the infant were on the bottle exclusively. To avoid contamination of the milk care must
be exercised to have everything perfectly clean that comes in contact with it. And it will
be necessary also to vary from time to time both the strength and the amount of the feeding.
These alterations will be made most successfully if left to the judgment of a physician who
is familiar with the development of the infant and who may be guided accordingly.

WEANING.--Occasionally, even before they are delivered, women express the conviction that they
will be incapable of nursing. A few mothers who take this attitude, which it would seem is
becoming more and more common, make no attempt at nursing, and others give it up after a very
short trial. Premature weaning is practiced among the women of two widely different classes:
those who are unwilling to deny themselves social pleasures, and those who, because they must
earn a living, cannot be encumbered with maternal duties. A still larger class, however, are
those mothers who wean the baby for neither of these reasons, but rather because they become
discouraged and conclude that there is something wrong with their milk. In this way many infants
are weaned without sufficient reason. Before giving up nursing her child a mother should submit
several samples of the milk for analysis. If it is unfit for the infant, reliable evidence
of the fact will often be secured in this way.

With the exception of tuberculosis, physicians recognize no condition that necessarily unfits
a mother for nursing. As we have already seen, pregnancy is generally incompatible with lactation;
in the event of conception the mother's milk almost always takes on qualities which render
it unsatisfactory for the infant, and yet occasionally pregnancy advances several months before
these changes in the milk occur. Meanwhile the infant suffers no inconvenience, and often in
these cases the symptoms of threatened miscarriage give the first intimation of the mother's
condition. Under all circumstances, however, nursing should cease as soon as the mother recognizes
that she is pregnant, for probably no woman is strong enough to provide nourishment for her
infant and for the development of the embryo simultaneously.

Menstruation, on the other hand, rarely if ever provides a good and sufficient reason for weaning.
In the great majority of instances this function is re-established before lactation ends. There
may be a reduction in the amount of milk during menstruation, but if the infant has been given
the breast as usual, the supply increases as soon as the period ends. Qualitative disturbances
which would render the milk unfit for use are practically never a consequence of menstruation.

It may happen as the infant grows older that the flow of milk will diminish; then the breast
feedings will of necessity be more frequently replaced by the bottle, and the question of weaning
will settle itself. But if the time of weaning is a matter of choice, it should be approximately
coincident with certain notable developments in the infant's digestive functions, which occur
toward the end of the first year. The fact that the infant is prepared to take other food is
outwardly shown by the appearance of teeth, of which there are usually six or eight at the
end of the year.

If the suggestion regarding the daily substitution of one bottle for the mother's milk has
been adopted, there will be no difficulty in discontinuing breast-feeding whenever it is desirable;
otherwise an infant may raise strong objection to the change. The mother, on the other hand,
will not be seriously inconvenienced by the weaning, provided she leaves her breasts alone.

