  I could not help contrasting the way in which the average landsman would
give an order, with the mate's way of doing it.  If the landsman should wish the gang-plank
moved a foot farther forward, he would probably say: 'James, or William, one of you push that
plank forward, please;' but put the mate in his place and he would roar out:  'Here, now, start
that gang-plank for'ard! Lively, now! WHAT're you about!  Snatch it! SNATCH it!  There! there!
Aft again! aft again! don't you hear me. Dash it to dash! are you going to SLEEP over it! 
'VAST heaving. 'Vast heaving, I tell you!  Going to heave it clear astern? WHERE're you going
with that barrel!  FOR'ARD with it 'fore I make you swallow it, you dash-dash-dash-DASHED split
between a tired mud-turtle and a crippled hearse-horse!'

I wished I could talk like that.

When the soreness of my adventure with the mate had somewhat worn off, I began timidly to make
up to the humblest official connected with the boat--the night watchman.  He snubbed my advances
at first, but I presently ventured to offer him a new chalk pipe; and that softened him. So
he allowed me to sit with him by the big bell on the hurricane deck, and in time he melted
into conversation. He could not well have helped it, I hung with such homage on his words and
so plainly showed that I felt honored by his notice. He told me the names of dim capes and
shadowy islands as we glided by them in the solemnity of the night, under the winking stars,
and by and by got to talking about himself.  He seemed over-sentimental for a man whose salary
was six dollars a week-- or rather he might have seemed so to an older person than I. But I
drank in his words hungrily, and with a faith that might have moved mountains if it had been
applied judiciously. What was it to me that he was soiled and seedy and fragrant with gin?
What was it to me that his grammar was bad, his construction worse, and his profanity so void
of art that it was an element of weakness rather than strength in his conversation?  He was
a wronged man, a man who had seen trouble, and that was enough for me. As he mellowed into
his plaintive history his tears dripped upon the lantern in his lap, and I cried, too, from
sympathy. He said he was the son of an English nobleman--either an earl or an alderman, he
could not remember which, but believed was both; his father, the nobleman, loved him, but his
mother hated him from the cradle; and so while he was still a little boy he was sent to 'one
of them old, ancient colleges'--he couldn't remember which; and by and by his father died and
his mother seized the property and 'shook' him as he phrased it.  After his mother shook him,
members of the nobility with whom he was acquainted used their influence to get him the position
of 'loblolly-boy in a ship;' and from that point my watchman threw off all trammels of date
and locality and branched out into a narrative that bristled all along with incredible adventures;
a narrative that was so reeking with bloodshed and so crammed with hair-breadth escapes and
the most engaging and unconscious personal villainies, that I sat speechless, enjoying, shuddering,
wondering, worshipping.

It was a sore blight to find out afterwards that he was a low, vulgar, ignorant, sentimental,
half-witted humbug, an untraveled native of the wilds of Illinois, who had absorbed wildcat
literature and appropriated its marvels, until in time he had woven odds and ends of the mess
into this yarn, and then gone on telling it to fledglings like me, until he had come to believe
it himself.