The bride walked to the altar, and as she took her place before it another clang resounded
from the belfry. The bridegroom was not there. Again and again the brazen throat and iron tongue
sent out a doleful knell, and faces grew pale and anxious, for the meaning of it could not
be guessed. With eyes fixed on the marble tomb of her first husband, the woman tremblingly
awaited the solution of the mystery, until the door was darkened by something that made her
catch her breath--a funeral. The organ began a solemn dirge as a black-cloaked cortege came
through the aisle, and it was with amazement that the bride discovered it to be formed of her
oldest friends,--bent, withered; paired, man and woman, as in mockery--while behind, with white
face, gleaming eyes, disordered hair, and halting step, came the bridegroom, in his shroud.

"Come," he said,--"let us be married. The coffins are ready. Then, home to the tomb."

"Cruel!" murmured the woman.

"Now, Heaven judge which of us has been cruel. Forty years ago you took away my faith, destroyed
my hopes, and gave to others your youth and beauty. Our lives have nearly run their course,
so I am come to wed you as with funeral rites." Then, in a softer manner, he took her hand,
and said, "All is forgiven. If we cannot live together we will at least be wedded in death.
Time is almost at its end. We will marry for eternity. Come." And tenderly embracing her, he
led her forward. Hard as was the ordeal, confusing, frightening, humiliating, the bride came
through it a better woman.

"It is true," she said, "I have been vain and worldly, but now, in my age, the truest love
I ever knew has come back to me. It is a holy love. I will cherish it forever." Their eyes
met, and they saw each other through tears. Solemnly the clergyman read the marriage service,
and when it was concluded the low threnody that had come from the organ in key with the measured
clang of the bell, merged into a nobler motive, until at last the funeral measures were lost
in a burst of exultant harmony. Sobs of pent feeling and sighs of relief were heard as the
bridal party moved away, and when the newmade wife and husband reached the portal the bell
was silent and the sun was shining.

ROISTERING DIRCK VAN DARA

In the days when most of New York stood below Grand Street, a roistering fellow used to make
the rounds of the taverns nightly, accompanied by a friend named Rooney. This brave drinker
was Dirck Van Dara, one of the last of those swag-bellied topers that made merry with such
solemnity before the English seized their unoffending town. It chanced that Dirck and his chum
were out later than usual one night, and by eleven o'clock, when all good people were abed,
a drizzle set in that drove the watch to sleep in doorways and left Broadway tenantless. As
the two choice spirits reeled out of a hostelry near Wall Street and saw the lights go out
in the tap-room windows they started up town to their homes in Leonard Street, but hardly had
they come abreast of old St. Paul's when a strange thing stayed them: crying was heard in the
churchyard and a phosphorescent light shone among the tombs. Rooney was sober in a moment,
but not so Dirck Van Dara, who shouted, "Here is sport, friend Rooney. Let's climb the wall.
If the dead are for a dance, we will take partners and show them how pigeons' wings are cut
nowadays."

"No," exclaimed the other; "those must perish who go among the dead when they come out of their
graves. I've heard that if you get into their clutches, you must stay in purgatory for a hundred
years, and no priest can pray you out."

"Bah! old wives' tales! Come on!" And pulling his friend with him, they were over the fence.
"Hello! what have we here?" As he spoke a haggard thing arose from behind a tombstone, a witchlike
creature, with rags falling about her wasted form and hair that almost hid her face. The twain
were set a-sneezing by the fumes of sulphur, and Rooney swore afterwards that there were little
things at the end of the yard with grinning faces and lights on the ends of their tails. Old
Hollands are heady. Dirck began to chaff the beldam on her dilapidation, but she stopped his
talk by dipping something from a caldron behind her and flinging it over both of her visitors.
Whatever it was, it burned outrageously, and with a yell of pain they leaped the wall more
briskly than they had jumped it the other way, and were soon in full flight. They had not gone
far when the clock struck twelve.

"Arrah! there's a crowd of them coming after," panted Rooney. "Ave Mary! I've heard that if
you die with witch broth being thrown over you, you're done for in the next world, as well
as this. Let us get to Father Donagan's. Wow!"

As he made this exclamation the fugitives found their way opposed by a woman, who looked at
them with immodest eyes and said, "Dirck Van Dara, your sire, in wig and bob, turned us Cyprians
out of New York, after ducking us in the Collect. But we forgive him, and to prove it we ask
you to our festival."

At the stroke of midnight the street before the church had swarmed with a motley throng, that
now came onward, waving torches that sparkled like stars. They formed a ring about Dirck and
began to dance, and he, nothing loth, seized the nymph who had addressed him and joined in
the revel. Not a soul was out or awake except themselves, and no words were said as the dance
went wilder to strains of weird and unseen instruments. Now and then one would apply a torch
to the person of Dirck, meanly assailing him in the rear, and the smart of the burn made him
feet it the livelier. At last they turned toward the Battery as by common consent, and went
careering along the street in frolic fashion. Rooney, whose senses had thus far been pent in
a stupor, fled with a yell of terror, and as he looked back he saw the unholy troop disappearing
in the mist like a moving galaxy. Never from that night was Dirck Van Data seen or heard of
more, and the publicans felt that they had less reason for living.

THE PARTY FROM GIBBET ISLAND

Ellis Island, in New York harbor, once bore the name of Gibbet Island, because pirates and
mutineers were hanged there in chains. During the times when it was devoted to this fell purpose
there stood in Communipaw the Wild Goose tavern, where Dutch burghers resorted, to smoke, drink
Hollands, and grow fat, wise, and sleepy in each others' company. The plague of this inn was
Yan Yost Vanderscamp, a nephew of the landlord, who frequently alarmed the patrons of the house
by putting powder into their pipes and attaching briers beneath their horses' tails, and who
naturally turned pirate when he became older, taking with him to sea his boon companion, an
ill-disposed, ill-favored blackamoor named Pluto, who had been employed about the tavern. When
the landlord died, Vanderscamp possessed himself of this property, fitted it up with plunder,
and at intervals he had his gang ashore,--such a crew of singing, swearing, drinking, gaming
devils as Communipaw had never seen the like of; yet the residents could not summon activity
enough to stop the goings-on that made the Wild Goose a disgrace to their village. The British
authorities, however, caught three of the swashbucklers and strung them up on Gibbet Island,
and things that went on badly in Communipaw after that went on with quiet and secrecy.

The pirate and his henchmen were returning to the tavern one night, after a visit to a rakish-looking
vessel in the offing, when a squall broke in such force as to give their skiff a leeway to
the place of executions. As they rounded that lonely reef a creaking noise overhead caused
Vanderscamp to look up, and he could not repress a shudder as he saw the bodies of his three
messmates, their rags fluttering and their chains grinding in the wind.

"Don't you want to see your friends?" sneered Pluto. "You, who are never afraid of living men,
what do you fear from the dead?"

"Nothing," answered the pirate. Then, lugging forth his bottle, he took a long pull at it,
and holding it toward the dead felons, he shouted, "Here's fair weather to you, my lads in
the wind, and if you should be walking the rounds to-night, come in to supper."

A clatter of bones and a creak of chains sounded like a laugh. It was midnight when the boat
pulled in at Communipaw, and as the storm continued Vanderscamp, drenched to the skin, made
quick time to the Wild Goose. As he entered, a sound of revelry overhead smote his ear, and,
being no less astonished than in need of cordials, he hastened up-stairs and flung open the
door. A table stood there, furnished with jugs and pipes and cans, and by light of candles
that burned as blue as brimstone could be seen the three gallows-birds from Gibbet Island,
with halters on their necks, clinking their tankards together and trolling forth a drinking-song.

Starting back with affright as the corpses hailed him with lifted arms and turned their fishy
eyes on him, Vanderscamp slipped at the door and fell headlong to the bottom of the stairs.
Next morning he was found there by the neighbors, dead to a certainty, and was put away in
the Dutch churchyard at Bergen on the Sunday following. As the house was rifled and deserted
by its occupants, it was hinted that the negro had betrayed his master to his fellow-buccaneers,
and that he, Pluto, was no other than the devil in disguise. But he was not, for his skiff
was seen floating bottom up in the bay soon after, and his drowned body lodged among the rocks
at the foot of the pirates' gallows.

For a long time afterwards the island was regarded as a place that required purging with bell,
book, and candle, for shadows were reported there and faint lights that shot into the air,
and to this day, with the great immigrant station on it and crowds going and coming all the
time, the Battery boatmen prefer not to row around it at night, for they are likely to see
the shades of the soldier and his mistress who were drowned off the place one windy night,
when the girl was aiding the fellow to escape confinement in the guard-house, to say nothing
of Vanderscamp and his felons.

MISS BRITTON'S POKER

The maids of Staten Island wrought havoc among the royal troops who were quartered among them
during the Revolution. Near quarantine, in an old house,--the Austen mansion,--a soldier of
King George hanged himself because a Yankee maid who lived there would not have him for a husband,
nor any gentleman whose coat was of his color; and, until ghosts went out of fashion, his spirit,
in somewhat heavy boots, with jingling spurs, often disturbed the nightly quiet of the place.

The conduct of a damsel in the old town of Richmond was even more stern. She was the granddaughter,
and a pretty one, of a farmer named Britton; but though Britton by descent and name, she was
no friend of Britons, albeit she might have had half the officers in the neighboring camp at
her feet, if she had wished them there. Once, while mulling a cup of cider for her grandfather,
she was interrupted by a self-invited myrmidon, who undertook, in a fashion rude and unexpected,
to show the love in which he held her. Before he could kiss her, the girl drew the hot poker
from the mug of drink and jabbed at the vitals of her amorous foe, burning a hole through his
scarlet uniform and printing on his burly person a lasting memento of the adventure. With a
howl of pain the fellow rushed away, and the privacy of the Britton family was never again
invaded, at least whilst cider was being mulled.

THE DEVIL'S STEPPING-STONES

When the devil set a claim to the fair lands at the north of Long Island Sound, his claim was
disputed by the Indians, who prepared to fight for their homes should he attempt to serve his
writ of ejectment. Parley resulted in nothing, so the bad one tried force, but he was routed
in open fight and found it desirable to get away from the scene of action as soon as possible.
He retreated across the Sound near the head of East River. The tide was out, so he stepped
from island to island, without trouble, and those reefs and islands are to this day the Devil's
Stepping-Stones. On reaching Throgg's Neck he sat down in a despairing attitude and brooded
on his defeat, until, roused to a frenzy at the thought of it, he resolved to renew the war
on terms advantageous entirely to himself. In that day Connecticut was free from rocks, but
Long Island was covered with them; so he gathered all he could lay his hands on and tossed
them at the Indians that he could see across the Sound near Cold Spring until the supply had
given out. The red men who last inhabited Connecticut used to show white men where the missiles
landed and where the devil struck his heel into the ground as he sprang from the shore in his
haste to reach Long Island. At Cold Spring other footprints and one of his toes are shown.
Establishing himself at Coram, he troubled the people of the country for many years, so that
between the devil on the west and the Montauks on the east they were plagued indeed; for though
their guard at Watch Hill, Rhode Island, and other places often apprised them of the coming
of the Montauks, they never knew which way to look for the devil.

THE SPRINGS OF BLOOD AND WATER

A great drought had fallen on Long Island, and the red men prayed for water. It is true that
they could get it at Lake Ronkonkoma, but some of them were many miles from there, and, beside,
they feared the spirits at that place: the girl who plied its waters in a phosphor-shining
birch, seeking her recreant lover; and the powerful guardians that the Great Spirit had put
in charge to keep the fish from being caught, for these fish were the souls of men, awaiting
deliverance into another form. The people gathered about their villages in bands and besought
the Great Spirit to give them drink. His voice was heard at last, bidding their chief to shoot
an arrow into the air and to watch where it fell, for there would water gush out. The chief
obeyed the deity, and as the arrow touched the earth a spring of sweet water spouted into the
air. Running forward with glad cries the red men drank eagerly of the liquor, laved their faces
in it, and were made strong again; and in memory of that event they called the place the Hill
of God, or Manitou Hill, and Manet or Manetta Hill it is to this day. Hereabouts the Indians
settled and lived in peace, thriving under the smile of their deity, making wampum for the
inland tribes and waxing rich with gains from it. They made the canal from bay to sea at Canoe
Place, that they might reach open water without dragging their boats across the sand-bars,
and in other ways they proved themselves ingenious and strong.

When the English landed on the island they saw that the Indians were not a people to be trifled
with, and in order to properly impress them with their superiority, they told them that John
Bull desired a treaty with them. The officers got them to sit in line in front of a cannon,
the nature of which instrument was unknown to them, and during the talk the gun was fired,
mowing down so many of the red people that the survivors took to flight, leaving the English
masters at the north shore, for this heartless and needless massacre took place at Whale's
Neck. So angry was the Great Spirit at this act of cruelty and treachery that he caused blood
to ooze from the soil, as he had made water leap for his thirsting children, and never again
would grass grow on the spot where the murder had been done.

THE CRUMBLING SILVER

There is a clay bank on Little Neck, Long Island, where metallic nodules are now and then exposed
by rain. Rustics declare them to be silver, and account for their crumbling on the theory that
the metal is under a curse. A century ago the Montauks mined it, digging over enough soil to
unearth these pellets now and again, and exchanging them at the nearest settlements for tobacco
and rum. The seeming abundance of these lumps of silver aroused the cupidity of one Gardiner,
a dweller in the central wilderness of the island, but none of the Indians would reveal the
source of their treasure. One day Gardiner succeeded in getting an old chief so tipsy that,
without realizing what he was doing, he led the white man to the clay bed and showed him the
metallic spots glittering in the sun. With a cry of delight Gardiner sprang forward and tore
at the earth with his fingers, while the Indian stood by laughing at his eagerness.

Presently a shade crossed the white man's face, for he thought that this vast treasure would
have to be shared by others. It was too much to endure. He wanted all. He would be the richest
man on earth. Stealing behind the Indian as he stood swaying and chuckling, he wrenched the
hatchet from his belt and clove his skull at a blow. Then, dragging the body to a thicket and
hiding it under stones and leaves, he hurried to his house for cart and pick and shovel, and
returning with speed he dug out a half ton of the silver before sunset. The cart was loaded,
and he set homeward, trembling with excitement and conjuring bright visions for his future,
when a wailing sound from a thicket made him halt and turn pale. Noiselessly a figure glided
from the bush. It was the Indian he had killed. The form approached the treasure, flung up
its arm, uttered a few guttural words; then a rising wind seemed to lift it from the ground
and it drifted toward the Sound, fading like a cloud as it receded.

Full of misgiving, Gardiner drove to his home, and, by light of a lantern, transferred his
treasure to his cellar. Was it the dulness of the candle that made the metal look so black?
After a night of feverish tossing on his bed he arose and went to the cellar to gloat upon
his wealth. The light of dawn fell on a heap of gray dust, a few brassy looking particles showing
here and there. The curse of the ghost had been of power and the silver was silver no more.
Mineralogists say that the nodules are iron pyrites. Perhaps so; but old residents know that
they used to be silver.

THE CORTELYOU ELOPEMENT

In the Bath district of Brooklyn stands Cortelyou manor, built one hundred and fifty years
ago, and a place of defence during the Revolution when the British made sallies from their
camp in Flatbush and worried the neighborhood. It was in one of these forays on pigs and chickens
that a gallant officer of red-coats met a pretty lass in the fields of Cortelyou. He stilled
her alarm by aiding her to gather wild-flowers, and it came about that the girl often went
into the fields and came back with prodigious bouquets of daisies. The elder Cortelyou had
no inkling of this adventure until one of his sons saw her tryst with the red-coat at a distance.
Be sure the whole family joined him in remonstrance. As the girl declared that she would not
forego the meetings with her lover, the father swore that she should never leave his roof again,
and he tried to be as good, or bad, as his word. The damsel took her imprisonment as any girl
of spirit would, but was unable to effect her escape until one evening, as she sat at her window,
watching the moon go down and paint the harbor with a path of light. A tap at the pane, as
of a pebble thrown against it, roused her from her revery. It was her lover on the lawn.

