"When I find that volcano, Don Alberto," I said, "not a mere handful of diamonds, but a bucketful."

This was almost our last talk, for the very same day news was brought that Lord Wellington,
having been forced to raise the siege of Burgos, was retreating toward the Portuguese frontier,
and that Salamanca would almost inevitably be recaptured by the French. Orders were given for
the removal of the wounded to the Coa, where the army was to take up its winter quarters, and
Zamorra and I had to part. We parted with mutual expressions of good-will, and in the hope,
destined never to be realized, that we might soon meet again. I had seen Don Alberto for the
last time.

A few weeks later I was sufficiently recovered from my hurts to use my bridle-arm, and before
the opening of the next campaign I was fit for the field and eager for the fray. It was the
campaign of Vittoria, one of the most brilliant episodes in the military history of England.
Even now my heart beats faster and the blood tingles in my veins when I think of that time,
so full of excitement, adventure, and glory--the forcing of the Pyrenees, the invasion of France,
the battles of Bayonne, Orthes, and Toulouse, and the march to Paris.

But as I am not relating a history of the war, I shall mention only one incident in which I
was concerned at this period--an incident that brought me in contact with a man who was destined
to exercise a fateful influence on my career.

It occurred after the battle of Vittoria. The French were making for the Pyrenees, laden with
the loot of a kingdom and encumbered with a motley crowd of non-combatants--the wives and families
of French officers, fair señoritas flying with their lovers, and traitorous Spaniards, who,
by taking sides with the invaders, had exposed themselves to the vengeance of the patriots.
So overwhelming was the defeat of the French, that they were forced to abandon nearly the whole
of their plunder and the greater part of their baggage, and leave the fugitives and camp-followers
to their fate.

Never was witnessed so strange a sight as the valley of Vittoria presented at the close of
that eventful day. The broken remains of the French army hurrying toward the Pamplona road,
eighty pieces of artillery, served with frantic haste, covering their retreat; thousands of
wagons and carriages jammed together and unable to move; the red-coated infantry of England,
marching steadily across the plain; the boom of the cannon, the rattle of musketry, the scream
of women as the bullets whistled through the air and shells burst over their heads--all this
made up a scene, dramatic and picturesque, it is true, yet full of dire confusion and Dantesque
horror; for death had reaped a rich harvest, and thousands of wounded lay writhing on the blood-stained
field.

Owing to the bursting of packages, the overturning of wagons, and the havoc wrought by shot
and shell, valuable effects, coin, gems, gold and silver candlesticks and vessels, priceless
paintings, the spoil of Spanish churches and convents, were strewed over the ground. There
was no need to plunder; our men picked up money as they matched, and it was computed that a
sum equal to a million sterling found its way into their knapsacks and pockets.

Our Spanish allies, officers as well as privates, were less scrupulous. They robbed like highwaymen,
and protested that they were only taking their own.

While riding toward Vittoria to execute an order of the colonel's, I passed a carriage which
a moment or two previously had been overtaken by several of Longa's dragoons, with the evident
intention of overhauling it. In the carriage were two ladies, one young and pretty the other
good-looking and mature; and, as I judged from their appearance, both being well dressed, the
daughter and wife of a French officer of rank. They appealed to me for help.

"You are an English officer," said the elder in French; "all the world knows that your nation
is as chivalrous as it is brave. Protect us, I pray you, from these ruffians."

I bowed, and turning to the Spaniards, one of whom was an officer, spoke them fair; for my
business was pressing, and I had no wish to be mixed up in a quarrel.

"Caballeros," I said, "we do not make war on women. You will let these ladies go."

"Carambo! We shall do nothing of the sort," returned the officer, insolently. "These ladies
are our prisoners, and their carriage and all it contains our prize."

"I beg your pardon, Señor Capitan, but you are, perhaps not aware that Lord Wellington has
given strict orders that private property is to be respected; and no true caballero molests women."

"Hijo de Dios! Dare you say that I am no true caballero? Begone this instant, or--"

The Spaniard drew his sword; I drew mine; his men began to look to the priming of their pistols,
and had General Anson not chanced to come by just in the nick of time, it might have gone ill
with me. On learning what had happened, he said I had acted very properly and told the Spaniards
that if they did not promptly depart he would hand them over to the provost-marshal.

"We shall meet again, I hope, you and I," said the officer, defiantly, as he gathered up his reins.

"So do I, if only that I may have an opportunity of chastising you for your insolence," was
my equally defiant answer.

"A thousand thanks, monsieur! You have done me and my daughter a great service," said the elder
of the ladies. "Do me the pleasure to accept this ring as a slight souvenir of our gratitude,
and I trust that in happier times we may meet again."

I accepted the souvenir without looking at it; reciprocated the wish in my best French, made
my best bow, and rode off on my errand. By the same act I had made one enemy and two friends;
therefore, as I thought, the balance was in my favor. But I was wrong, for a wider experience
of the world than I then possessed has taught me that it is better to miss making a hundred
ordinary friends than to make one inveterate enemy.

CHAPTER VII.

IN QUEST OF FORTUNE.

When the war came to an end my occupation was gone, for both circumstances and my own will
compelled me to leave the army. My allowance could no longer be continued. At the best, the
life of a lieutenant of dragoons in peace time would have been little to my liking; with no
other resource than my pay, it would have been intolerable. So I sent in my papers, and resolved
to seek my fortune in South America. After the payment of my debts (incurred partly in the
purchase of my first commission) and the provision of my outfit, the sum left at my disposal
was comparatively trifling. But I possessed a valuable asset in the ring given me by the French
lady on the field of Vittoria. It was heavy, of antique make, curiously wrought, and set with
a large sapphire of incomparable beauty. A jeweler, to whom I showed it, said he had never
seen a finer. I could have sold it for a hundred guineas. But as the gem was property in a
portable shape and more convertible than a bill of exchange, I preferred to keep it, taking,
however, the precaution to have the sapphire covered with a composition, in order that its
value might not be too readily apparent to covetous eyes.

At this time the Spanish colonies of Colombia (including the countries now known as Venezuela,
New Granada, and Ecuador, as also the present republic of southern Central America) were in
full revolt against the mother country. The war had been going on for several years with varying
fortunes; but latterly the Spaniards had been getting decidedly the best of it. Caracas and
all the seaport towns were in their possession, and the patriot cause was only maintained by
a few bands of irregulars, who were waging a desperate and almost hopeless contest in the forests
and on the llanos of the interior.

My sympathies were on the popular side, and I might have joined the volunteer force which was
being raised in England for service with the insurgents. But this did not suit my purpose.
If I accepted a commission in the Legion I should have to go where I was ordered. I preferred
to go where I listed. I had no objection to fighting, but I wanted to do it in my own way and
at my own time, and rather in the ranks of the rebels themselves than as officer in a foreign
force.

This view of the case I represented to Señor Moreña, one of the "patriot" agents in London,
and asked his advice.

"Why not go to Caracas?" he said.

"What would be the use of that? Caracas is in the hands of the Spaniards."

"You could get from Caracas into the interior, and do the cause an important service."

"How?"

Señor Moreña explained that the patriots of the capital, being sorely oppressed by the Spaniards,
were losing courage, and he wished greatly to send them a message of hope and the assurance
that help was at hand. It was also most desirable that the insurgent leaders on the field should
be informed of the organization of a British liberating Legion, and of other measures which
were being taken to afford them relief and turn the tide of victory in their favor.

But to communicate these tidings to the parties concerned was by no means easy. The post was
obviously quite out of the question, and no Spanish creole could land at any port held by the
Royalists without the almost certainty of being promptly strangled or shot. "An Englishman,
however--especially an Englishman who had fought under Wellington in Spain--might undertake
the mission with comparative impunity," said Señor Moreña.

"I understand perfectly," I answered. "I have to go in the character of an ordinary travelling
Englishman, and act as an emissary of the insurgent junta. But if my true character is detected,
what then?"

"That is not at all likely, Mr. Fortescue."

"Yet the unlikely happens sometimes--happens generally, in fact. Suppose it does in the present
instance?"

"In that case I am very much afraid that you would be shot."

"I have not a doubt of it. Nevertheless, your proposal pleases me, and I shall do my best to
carry out your wishes."

Whereupon Señor Moreña expressed his thanks in sonorous Castilian, protested that my courage
and devotion would earn me the eternal gratitude of every patriot, and promised to have everything
ready for me in the course of the week, a promise which he faithfully kept.

Three days later Moreña brought me a packet of letters and a memorandum containing minute instructions
for my guidance. Nothing could be more harmless looking than the letters. They contained merely
a few items of general news and the recommendation of the bearer to the good offices of the
recipient. But this was only a blind; the real letters were written in cipher, with sympathetic
ink. They were, moreover, addressed to secret friends of the revolutionary cause, who, as Señor
Moreña believed and hoped, were, as yet, unsuspected by the Spanish authorities, and at large.

"To give you letters to known patriots would be simply to insure your destruction," said the
señor, "even if you were to find them alive and at liberty."

I had also Don Alberto's letter, and as the old gentleman had once been president of the Audiencia
Real (Royal Council), Moreña thought it would be of great use to me, and serve to ward off
suspicion, even though some of the friends to whom he had himself written should have meanwhile
got into trouble.

But as if he had not complete confidence in the efficacy of these elaborate precautions, Señor
Moreña strongly advised me to stay no longer in Caracas than I could possibly help.

"Spies more vigilant than those of the Inquisition are continually on the lookout for victims,"
he said. "An inadvertent word, a look even, might betray you; the only law is the will of the
military and police, and they make very short work of those whom they suspect. Yes, leave Caracas
the moment you have delivered your letters; our friends will smuggle you through the Spanish
line and lead you to one of the patriot camps."

This was not very encouraging; but I was at an adventurous age and in an enterprising mood,
and the creole's warnings had rather the effect of increasing my desire to go forward with
the undertaking in which I had engaged than causing me to falter in my resolve. Like Napoleon,
I believed in my star, and I had faced death too often on the field of battle to fear the rather
remote dangers Moreña had foreshadowed, and in whose existence I only half believed.

The die being cast, the next question was how I should reach my destination. The Spaniards
of that age kept the trade with their colonies in their own hands, and it was seldom, indeed,
that a ship sailed from the Thames for La Guayra or any other port on the Main. I was, however,
lucky enough to find a vessel in the river taking in cargo for the island of Curaçoa, which
had just been ceded by England to the Dutch, from whom it was captured in 1807, and for a reasonable
consideration the master agreed to fit me up a cabin and give me a passage.

The voyage was rather long--something like fifty days--yet not altogether uneventful; for in
the course of it we were chased by an American privateer, overhauled by a Spanish cruiser,
nearly caught by a pirate, and almost swamped in a hurricane; but we fortunately escaped these
and all other dangers, and eventually reached our haven in safety.

I had brought with me letters of credit on a Dutch merchant at Curaçoa, of the name of Van
Voorst, from whom I obtained as much coin as I thought would cover my expenses for a few months,
and left the balance in his hands on deposit. With the help of this gentleman, moreover, I
chartered a falucha for the voyage to La Guayra. Also at his suggestion, moreover, I stitched
several gold pieces in the lining of my vest and the waistband of my trousers, as a reserve
in case of accident.

We made the run in twenty-four hours, and as the falucha let go in the roadstead I tore up
my memorandum of instructions (which I had carefully committed to memory) and threw the fragments
into the sea.

A little later we were boarded by two revenue officers, who seemed more surprised than pleased
to see me; as, however, my papers were in perfect order, and nothing either compromising or
contraband was found in my possession, they allowed me to land, and I thought that my troubles
(for the present) were over. But I had not been ashore many minutes when I was met by a sergeant
and a file of soldiers, who asked me politely, yet firmly, to accompany them to the commandant
of the garrison.

I complied, of course, and was conducted to the barracks, where I found the gentleman in question
lolling in a chinchura (hammock) and smoking a cigar. He eyed me with great suspicion, and
after examining my passport, demanded my business, and wanted to know why I had taken it into
my head to visit Colombia at a time when the country was being convulsed with civil war.

Thinking it best to answer frankly (with one or two reservations), I said that, having heard
much of South America while campaigning in Spain, I had made up my mind to voyage thither on
the first opportunity.

"What! you have served in Spain, in the army of Lord Wellington!" interposed the commandant
with great vivacity.

"Yes; I joined shortly before the battle of Salamanca, where I was wounded. I was also at Vittoria,
and--"

"So was I. I commanded a regiment in Murillo's corps d'armée, and have come out with him to
Colombia. We are brothers in arms. We have both bled in the sacred cause of Spanish independence.
Let me embrace you."

Whereupon the commandant, springing from his hammock, put his arms round my neck and his head
on my shoulders, patted me on the back, and kissed me on both cheeks, a salute which I thought
it expedient to return, though his face was not overclean and he smelled abominably of garlic
and stale tobacco.

"So you have come to see South America--only to see it!" he said. "But perhaps you are scientific;
you have the intention to explore the country and write a book, like the illustrious Humboldt?"

The idea was useful. I modestly admitted that I did cultivate a little science, and allowed
my "brother-in-arms" to remain in the belief that I proposed to follow in the footsteps of
the author of "Cosmos"--at a distance.

"I have an immense respect for science," continued the commandant, "and I doubt not that you
will write a book which will make you famous. My only regret is, that in the present state
of the country you may find going about rather difficult. But it won't be for long. We have
well-nigh got this accursed rebellion under. A few weeks more, and there will not be a rebel
left alive between the Andes and the Atlantic. The Captain-General of New Granada reports that
he has either shot or hanged every known patriot in the province. We are doing the same here
in Venezuela. We give no quarter; it is the only way with rebels. Guerra a la muerte!"

After this the commandant asked me to dinner, and insisted on my becoming his guest until the
morrow, when he would provide me with mules for myself and my baggage, and give me an escort
to Caracas, and letter of introduction to one of his friends there. So great was his kindness,
indeed, that only the ferocious sentiments which he had avowed in respect of the rebels reconciled
me to the deception which I was compelled to practise. I accepted his hospitality and his offer
of mules and an escort, and the next morning I set out on the first stage of my inland journey.
Before parting he expressed a hope--which I deemed it prudent to reciprocate--that we should
meet again.

Nothing can be finer than the ride to Caracas by the old Spanish road, or more superb than
its position in a magnificent valley, watered by four rivers, surrounded by a rampart of lofty
mountains, and enjoying, by reason of its altitude, a climate of perpetual spring. But the
city itself wore an aspect of gloom and desolation. Four years previously the ground on which
it stood had been torn and rent by a succession of terrible earthquakes in which hundreds of
houses were levelled with the earth, and thousands of its people bereft of their lives. Since
that time two sieges, and wholesale proscription and executions, first by one side and then
by the other, had well-nigh completed its destruction. Its principal buildings were still in
ruins, and half its population had either perished or fled. Nearly every civilian whom I met
in the streets was in mourning. Even the Royalists (who were more numerous than I expected)
looked unhappy, for all had suffered either in person or in property, and none knew what further
woes the future might bring them.

CHAPTER VIII.

IN THE KING'S NAME.

I put up at the Posado de los Generales (recommended by the commandant), and the day after
my arrival I delivered the letters confided to me by Señor Moreño. This done, I felt safe;
for (as I thought) there was nothing else in my possession by which I could possibly be compromised.
I did not deliver the letters separately. I gave the packet, just as I had received it, to
a certain Señor Carera, the secret chief of the patriot party in Caracas. I also gave him a
long verbal message from Moreño, and we discussed at length the condition of the country and
the prospects of the insurrection. In the interior, he said, there raged a frightful guerilla
warfare, and Caracas was under a veritable reign of terror. Of the half-dozen friends for whom
I had brought letters, one had been garroted; another was in prison, and would almost certainly
meet the same fate. It was only by posing as a loyalist and exercising the utmost circumspection
that he had so far succeeded in keeping a whole skin; and if he were not convinced that he
could do more for the cause where he was than elsewhere, he would not remain in the city another
hour. As for myself, he was quite of Moreño's opinion, that the sooner I got away the better.

"I consider it my duty to watch over your safety," he said. "I should be sorry indeed were
any harm to befall an English caballero who has risked his life to serve us and brought us
such good news."

"What harm can befall me, now that I have got rid of that packet?" I asked.

"In a city under martial law and full of spies, there is no telling what may happen. Being,
moreover, a stranger, you are a marked man. It is not everybody who, like the commandant of
La Guayra, will believe that you are travelling for your own pleasure. What man in his senses
would choose a time like this for a scientific ramble in Venezuela?"

And then Señor Carera explained that he could arrange for me to leave Caracas almost immediately,
under excellent guidance. The teniente of Colonel Mejia, one of the guerilla leaders, was in
the town on a secret errand, and would set out on his return journey in three days. If I liked
I might go with him, and I could not have a better guide or a more trustworthy companion.

It was a chance not to be lost. I told Señor Carera that I should only be too glad to profit
by the opportunity, and that on any day and at any hour which he might name I would be ready.

"I will see the teniente, and let you know further in the course of to-morrow," said Carera,
after a moment's thought. "The affair will require nice management. There are patrols on every
road. You must be well mounted, and I suppose you will want a mule for your baggage."

"No! I shall take no more than I can carry in my saddle-bags. We must not be incumbered with
pack-mules on an expedition of this sort. We may have to ride for our lives."

"You are quite right, Señor Fortescue; so you may. I will see that you are well mounted, and
I shall be delighted to take charge of your belongings until the patriots again, and for the
last time, capture Caracas and drive those thrice-accursed Spaniards into the sea."

Before we separated I invited Señor Carera to almuerzo (the equivalent to the Continental second
breakfast) on the following day.

After a moment's reflection he accepted the invitation. "But we shall have to be very cautious,"
he added. "The posada is a Royalist house, and the posadero (innkeeper) is hand and glove with
the police. If we speak of the patriots at all, it must be only to abuse them.... But our turn
will come, and--por Dios!--then--"

The fierce light in Carera's eyes, the gesture by which his words were emphasized, boded no
good for the Royalists if the patriots should get the upper hand. No wonder that a war in which
men like him were engaged on the one side, and men like el Commandant Castro on the other,
should be savage, merciless, and "to the death."

As I had decided to quit Caracas so soon, it did not seem worth while presenting the letter
to one of his brother officers which I had received from Commandant Castro. I thought, too,
that in existing circumstances the less I had to do with officers the better. But I did not
like the idea of going away without fulfilling my promise to call on Zamorra's old friend,
Don Señor Ulloa.

So when I returned to the posada I asked the posadero (innkeeper), a tall Biscayan, with an
immensely long nose, a cringing manner, and an insincere smile, if he would kindly direct me
to Señor Ulloa's house.

"Si, señor," said the posadero, giving me a queer look, and exchanging significant glances
with two or three of his guests who were within earshot. "Si, señor, I can direct you to the
house of Señor Ulloa. You mean Don Simon, of course?"

"Yes. I have a letter of introduction to him."

"Oh, you have a letter of introduction to Don Simon! if you will come into the street I will
show you the way."

Whereupon we went outside, and the posadero, pointing out the church of San Ildefonso, told
me that the large house over against the eastern door was the house I sought.

"Gracias, señor," I said, as I started on my errand, taking the shady side of the street and
walking slowly, for the day was warm.

I walked slowly and thought deeply, trying to make out what could be the meaning of the glances
which the mention of Señor Ulloa's name had evoked, and there was a nameless something in the
posadero's manner I did not like. Besides being cringing, as usual, it was half mocking, half
menacing, as if I had said, or he had heard, something that placed me in his power.

Yet what could he have heard? What could there be in the name of Ulloa to either excite his
enmity or rouse his suspicion? As a man in authority, and the particular friend of an ex-president
of the Audiencia Real, Don Simon must needs be above reproach.

Should I turn back and ask the posadero what he meant? No, that were both weak and impolitic.
He would either answer me with a lie, or refuse to answer at all, qui s'excuse s'accuse. I
resolved to go on, and see what came of it. Don Simon would no doubt be able to enlighten me.

I found the place without difficulty. There could be no mistaking it--a large house over against
the eastern door of the church of San Ildefonso, built round a patio, or courtyard, after the
fashion of Spanish and South American mansions. Like the church, it seemed to have been much
damaged by the earthquake; the outer walls were cracked, and the gateway was encumbered with
fallen stones.

This surprised me less than may be supposed. Creoles are not remarkable for energy, and it
was quite possible that Señor Ulloa's fortunes might have suffered as severely from the war
as his house had suffered from the earthquake. But when I entered the patio I was more than
surprised. The only visible signs of life were lizards, darting in and out of their holes,
and a huge rattlesnake sunning himself on the ledge of a broken fountain. Grass was growing
between the stones; rotten doors hung on rusty hinges; there were great gaps in the roof and
huge fissures in the walls, and when I called no one answered.

"Surely," I thought, "I have made some mistake. This house is both deserted and ruined."

I returned to the street and accosted a passer-by.

"Is this the house of Don Simon Ulloa?" I asked him.

"Si, Señor," he said; and then hurried on as if my question had half-frightened him out of
his wits.

I could not tell what to make of this; but my first idea was that Señor Ulloa was dead, and
the house had the reputation of being haunted. In any case, the innkeeper had evidently played
me a scurvy trick, and I went back to the posada with the full intention of having it out with him.

"Did you find the house of Don Simon, Señor Fortescue?" he asked when he saw me.

"Yes, but I did not find him. The house is empty and deserted. What do you mean by sending
me on such a fool's errand?"

"I beg your pardon, señor. You asked me to direct you to Señor Ulloa's house, and I did so.
What could I do more?" And the fellow cringed and smirked, as if it were all a capital joke,
till I could hardly refrain from pulling his long nose first and kicking him afterwards, but
I listened to the voice of prudence and resisted the impulse.

"You know quite well that I sought Señor Ulloa. Did I not tell you that I had a letter for
him? If you were a caballero instead of a wretched posadero, I would chastise your trickery
as it deserves. What has become of Señor Ulloa, and how comes it that his house is deserted?"

"Señor Ulloa is dead. He was garroted."

"Garroted! What for?"

"Treason. There was discovered a compromising correspondence between him and Bolivar. But why
ask me? As a friend of Señor Ulloa, you surely know all this?"

"I never was a friend of his--never even saw him! I had merely a letter to him from a common
friend. But how happened it that Señor Ulloa, who, I believe, was a correjidor, entered into
a correspondence with the arch-traitor?"

"That made it all the worse. He richly deserved his fate. His eldest son, who was privy to
the affair, was strangled at the same time as his father; his other children fled, and Señora
Ulloa died of grief."

"Poor woman! No wonder the house is deserted. What a frightful state of things!"

And then, feeling that I had said enough, and fearing that I might say more, I turned on my
heel, lighted a cigar, and, while I paced to and fro in the patio, seriously considered my
position, which, as I clearly perceived, was beginning to be rather precarious.

As likely as not the innkeeper would denounce me, and then it would, of course, be very absurd,
for I was utterly ignorant, and Zamorra, a Royalist to the bone, must have been equally ignorant
that his friend Ulloa had any hand in the rebellion. The mere fact of carrying a harmless letter
of introduction from a well-known loyalist to a friend whom he believed to be still a loyalist,
could surely not be construed as an offense. At any rate it ought not to be. But when I recalled
all I had heard from Moreña, and the stories told me but an hour before by Carera, I thought
it extremely probable that it would be, and bitterly regretted that I had not mentioned to
the latter Ulloa's name. He would have put me on my guard, and I should not have so fatally
committed myself with the posadero.

But regrets are useless and worse. They waste time and weaken resolve. The question of the
moment was, What should I do? How avoid the danger which I felt sure was impending? There seemed
only one way--immediate flight. I would go to Carera, tell him all that had happened, and ask
him to arrange for my departure from Caracas that very night. I could steal away unseen when
all was quiet.

"At once," I said to myself--"at once. If I exaggerate, if the danger be not so pressing as
I fear, he is just the man to tell me; but, first of all, I will go into my room and destroy
this confounded letter. The posadero did not see it. All that he can say is--"

"In the king's name!" exclaimed a rough voice behind me; and a heavy hand was laid on my arm.

Turning sharply round, I found myself confronted by an officer of police and four alguazils,
all armed to the teeth.

"I arrest you in the king's name," repeated the officer.

"On what charge?" I asked.

"Treason. Giving aid and comfort to the king's enemies, and acting as a medium of communication
between rebels against his authority."

"Very well; I am ready to accompany you," I said, seeing that, for the moment at least, resistance
and escape were equally out of the question; "but the charge is false."

"That I have nothing to do with. The case is one for the military tribunal. Before we go I
must search your room."

He did so, and, except my passport, found nothing whatever of a documentary, much less of a
compromising character. He then searched me, and took possession of Zamorra's unlucky letter
to Ulloa and my memorandum-book, in which, however, there were merely a few commonplace notes
and scientific jottings.

This done he placed two of his alguazils on either side of me, telling them to run me through
with their bayonets if I attempted to escape, and then, drawing his sword and bringing up the
rear, gave the order to march.

As we passed through the gateway I caught sight of the posadero, laughing consumedly, and pointing
at me the finger of scorn and triumph. How sorry I felt that I had not kicked him when I was
in the humor and had the opportunity!

CHAPTER IX.

DOOMED  TO  DIE.

My captors conducted me to a dilapidated building near the Plaza Major, which did duty as a
temporary jail, the principal prison of Caracas having been destroyed by the earthquake and
left as it fell. Nevertheless, the room to which I was taken seemed quite strong enough to
hold anybody unsupplied with housebreaking implements or less ingenious than Jack Sheppard.
The door was thick and well bolted, the window or grating (for it was, of course, destitute
of glass) high and heavily barred, yet not too high to be reached with a little contrivance.
Mounting the single chair (beside a hammock the only furniture the room contained), I gripped
the bars with my hands, raised myself up, and looked out. Below me was a narrow, and, as it
might appear, a little-frequented street, at the end of which a sentry was doing his monotonous
spell of duty.

The place was evidently well guarded, and from the number of soldiers whom I had seen about
the gateway and in the patio, I concluded that, besides serving as a jail, it was used also
as a military post. Even though I might get out, I should not find it very easy to get away.
And what were my chances of getting out? As yet they seemed exceedingly remote. The only possible
exits were the door and the window. The door was both locked and bolted, and either to open
or make an opening in it I should want a brace and bit and a saw, and several hours freedom
from intrusion. It would be easier to cut the bars--if I possessed a file or a suitable saw.
I had my knife, and with time and patience I might possibly fashion a tool that would answer
the purpose.

But time was just what I might not be able to command. I had heard that the sole merit of the
military tribunal was its promptitude; it never kept its victims long in suspense; they were
either quickly released or as quickly despatched--the latter being the alternative most generally
adopted. It was for this reason that, the moment I was arrested, I began to think how I could
escape. As neither opening the door nor breaking the bars seemed immediately feasible, the
idea of bribing the turnkey naturally occurred to me. Thanks to the precaution suggested by
Mr. Van Voorst, I had several gold pieces in my belt. But though the fellow would no doubt
accept my money, what security had I that he would keep his word? And how, even if he were
to leave the door open, should I evade the vigilance of the sentries and the soldiers who were
always loitering in the patio?

On the whole, I thought the best thing I could do was to wait quietly until the morrow. The
night is often fruitful in ideas. I might be acquitted, after all, and if I attempted to bribe
the turnkey before my examination, and he should betray me to his superiors, my condemnation
would be a foregone conclusion. The mere attempt would be regarded as an admission of guilt.

A while later, the zambo turnkey (half Indian, half negro) brought me my evening meal--a loaf
of bread and a small bottle of wine--and I studied his countenance closely. It was both treacherous
and truculent, and I felt that if I trusted him he would be sure to play me false.

As it was near sunset I asked for a light, and tried to engage him in conversation. But the
attempt failed. He answered surlily, that a dark room was quite good enough for a damned rebel,
and left me to myself.

When it became too dark to walk about, I lay down in the hammock and was soon in the land of
dreams; for I was young and sanguine, and though I could not help feeling somewhat anxious,
it was not the sort of anxiety which kills sleep. Only once in my life have I tasted the agony
of despair. That time was not yet.

When I awoke the clock of a neighboring church was striking three, and the rays of a brilliant
tropical moon were streaming through the barred window of my room, making it hardly less light
than day.

As the echo of the last stroke dies away, I fancy that I hear something strike against the grating.

I rise up in my hammock, listening intently, and at the same instant a small shower of pebbles,
flung by an unseen hand, falls into the room.

A signal!

Yes, and a signal that demands an answer. In less time than it takes to tell I slip from my
hammock, gather up the pebbles, climb up to the window, and drop them into the street. Then,
looking out, I can just discern, deep in the shadow of the building opposite, the figure of
a man. He raises his arm; something white flies over my head and falls on the floor. Dropping
hurriedly from the grating, I pick up the message-bearing missile--a pebble to which is tied
a piece of paper. I can see that the paper contains writing, and climbing a second time up
to the grating, I make out by the light of the moonbeams the words:

"If you are condemned, ask for a priest."

My first feeling was one of bitter disappointment. Why should I ask for a priest? I was not
a Roman Catholic; I did not want to confess. If the author of the missive was Carera--and who
else could it be?--why had he given himself so much trouble to make so unpleasantly suggestive
a recommendation? A priest, forsooth! A file and a cord would be much more to the purpose....
But might not the words mean more than appeared? Could it be that Carera desired to give me
a friendly hint to prepare for the worst?... Or was it possible that the ghostly man would
bring me a further message and help me in some way to escape? At any rate, it was a more encouraging
theory than the other, and I resolved to act on it. If the priest did me no good, he could,
at least, do me no harm.

After tearing up the bit of paper and chewing the fragments, I returned to my hammock and lay
awake--sleep being now out of the question--until the turnkey brought me a cup of chocolate,
of which, with the remains of the loaf, I made my first breakfast. About the middle of the
day he brought me something more substantial. On both occasions I pressed him with questions
as to when I was to be examined, and what they were going to do with me, to all of which he
answered "No se" ("I don't know"), and, probably enough, he told the truth. However, I was
not kept long in suspense. Later on in the afternoon the door opened for the third time, and
the officer who had arrested me, followed by his alguazils, appeared at the threshold and announced
that he had been ordered to escort me to the tribunal.

We went in the same order as before; and a walk of less than fifteen minutes brought us to
another tumble-down building, which appeared to have been once a court-house. Only the lower
rooms were habitable, and at a door, on either side of which stood a sentry, my conductor respectfully
knocked.

"Adelante!" said a rough voice; and we entered accordingly.

Before a long table at the upper end of a large, barely-furnished room, with rough walls and
a cracked ceiling, sat three men in uniform. The one who occupied the chief seat, and seemed
to be the president, was old and gray, with hard, suspicious eyes, and a long, typical Spanish
face, in every line of which I read cruelty and ruthless determination. His colleagues, who
called him "marquis," treated him with great deference, and his breast was covered with orders.

It was evident that on this man would depend my fate. The others were there merely to register
his decrees.

After leading me to the table and saluting the tribunal, the officer of police, whose sword
was still drawn, placed himself in a convenient position for running me through, in the event
of my behaving disrespectfully to the tribunal or attempting to escape.

The president, who had before him the letter to Señor Ulloa, my passport, and a document that
looked like a brief, demanded my name and quality.

I told him.

"What was your purpose in coming to Caracas?" he asked.

"Simply to see the country."

He laughed scornfully.

"To see the country! What nonsense is this? How can anybody see a country which is ravaged
by brigands and convulsed with civil war? And where is your authority?"

"My passport."

"A passport such as this is only available in a time of peace. No stranger unprovided with
a safe conduct from the capitan-general is allowed to travel in the province of Caracas. It
is useless trying to deceive us, señor. Your purpose is to carry information to the rebels,
probably to join them, as is proved by your possession of a letter to so base a traitor as
Señor Ulloa."

On this I explained how I had obtained the letter, and pointed out that the very fact of my
asking the posadero to direct me to Ulloa's house, and going thither openly, was proof positive
of my innocence. Had my purpose been that which he imputed to me, I should have shown more caution.

"That does not at all follow," rejoined the president. "You may have intended to disarm suspicion
by a pretence of ignorance. Moreover, you expressed to the señor posadero sentiments hostile
to the Government of his Majesty the King."

"It is untrue. I did nothing of the sort," I exclaimed, impetuously.

"Mind what you say, prisoner. Unless you treat the tribunal with due respect you shall be sent
back to the carcel and tried in your absence."

"Do you call this a trial?" I exclaimed, indignantly. "I am a British subject. I have committed
no offence; but if I must be tried I demand the right of being tried by a civil tribunal."

"British subjects who venture into a city under martial law must take the consequences. We
can show them no more consideration than we show Spanish subjects. They deserve much less,
indeed. At this moment a force is being organized in England, with the sanction and encouragement
of the British Government, to serve against our troops in these colonies. This is an act of
war, and if the king, my master, were of my mind, he would declare war against England. Better
an open foe than a treacherous friend. Do you hold a commission in the Legion, señor?"

"No."

"Know you anybody who does?"

"Yes; I believe that several men with whom I served in Spain have accepted commissions. But
you will surely not hold me responsible for the doings of others?"

"Not at all. You have quite enough sins of your own to answer for. You may not actually hold
a commission in this force of filibusters, but you are acquainted with people who do; and from
your own admission and facts that have come to our knowledge, we believe that you are acting
as an intermediary between the rebels in this country and their agents in England. It is an
insult to our understanding to tell us that you have come here out of idle curiosity. You have
come to spy out the nakedness of the land, and being a soldier you know how spies are dealt with."

Here the president held a whispered consultation with his colleagues. Then he turned to me,
and continued:

"We are of opinion that the charges against you have been fully made out, and the sentence
of the court is that you be strangled on the Plaza Major to-morrow morning at seven by the clock."

"Strangled! Surely, señores, you will not commit so great an infamy? This is a mere mockery
of a trial. I have neither seen an indictment nor been confronted by witnesses. Call this a
sentence! I call it murder."

"If you do not moderate your language, prisoner, you will be strangled to-night instead of
to-morrow. Remove him, capitan"--to the officer of police. "Let this be your warrant"--writing.

"Grant me at least one favor," I asked, smothering my indignation, and trying to speak calmly.
"I have fought and bled for Spain. Let me at least die a soldier's death, and allow me before
I die to see a priest."

"So you are a Christian!" returned the president, almost graciously. "I thought all Englishmen
were heretics. I think señores, we may grant Señor Fortescue's request. Instead of being strangled,
you shall be shot by a firing party of the regiment of Cordova, and you may see a priest. We
would not have you die unshriven, and I will myself see that your body is laid in consecrated
ground. When would you like the priest to visit you?"

"This evening, señor president. There will not be much time to-morrow morning."

"That is true. See to it, capitan. Tell them at the carcel that Señor Fortescue may see a priest
in his own room this evening. Adios señor!"

And with that my three judges rose from their seats and bowed as politely as if they were parting
with an honored guest. Though this proceeding struck me as being both ghastly and grotesque,
I returned the greeting in due form, and made my best bow. I learned afterward that I had really
been treated with exceptional consideration, and might esteem myself fortunate in not being
condemned without trial and strangled without notice.

CHAPTER X.

SALVADOR.

Now that I knew beyond a doubt what would be my fate unless I could escape before morning,
I became decidedly anxious as to the outcome of my approaching interview with the ghostly comforter
for whom I had asked. It was my last chance. If it failed me, or the man turned out to be a
priest and nothing more, my hours were numbered. The time was too short to arrange any other
plan. Would he bring with him a file and a cord? Even if he did, we could hardly hope to cut
through the bars before daylight. And, most important consideration of all, how would Carera
contrive to send me the right man?

The mystery was solved more quickly than I expected.

After leaving the tribunal, my escort took me back by the way we had come, the police captain,
who was showing himself much more friendly (probably because he looked on me as a good "Christian"
and a dying man), walking beside instead of behind me; and when we were within a hundred yards
or so of the carcel I observed a Franciscan friar pacing slowly toward us.

I felt intuitively that this was my man; and when he drew nearer a slight movement of his eyebrows
and a quick look of intelligence told me that I was right.

"I have no acquaintance among the clergy of Caracas," I said to my conductor. "This friar will
serve my purpose as well as a regular priest."

"As you like, señor. Shall I ask him to see you?"

"Gracias señor capitan, if you please."

Whereupon the officer respectfully accosted the friar, and after telling him that I had been
condemned to die at sunrise on the morrow, asked if he would receive my confession and give
me such religious consolation as my case required.

"Con mucho gusto, capitan," answered the friar. "When would the señor like me to visit him?"

"At once, father. My hours are numbered, and I would fain spend the night in meditation and
prayer."

"Come with us, father," said the captain. "The señor has the permission of the tribunal to
see a priest in his own room."

So we entered the prison together, and the captain, having given the necessary instructions
to the turnkey, we were conducted to my room.

"When you have done," he said, "knock at the door, and I will come and let you out."

"Good! But you need not wait. I shall not be ready for half an hour or more."

As the key turned in the lock, the soi-disant friar threw back his cowl. "Now, Señor Fortescue,"
he said, with a laugh, "I am ready to hear your confession."

"I confess that I feel as if I were in purgatory already, and I shall be uncommonly glad if
you can get me out of it."

"Well, purgatory is not the pleasantest of places by all accounts, and I am quite willing to
do whatever I can for you. By way of beginning, take this ointment and smear your face and
hands therewith."

"Why?"

"To make you look swart and ugly, like the zambo."

"And then?"

"And then? When the turnkey comes back we shall overpower, bind, and gag him--if he resists,
strangle him. Then you will put on his clothes and don his sombrero, and as the moon rises
late, and the prison is badly lighted, I have no doubt we shall run the gauntlet of the guard
without difficulty.... That is a splendid ointment. You are almost as dark as a negro. Now
for your feet."

"My feet! I see! I must go out barefoot."

"Of course. Who ever heard of a zambo turnkey wearing shoes? I will hide yours under my habit,
and you can put them on afterward."

"You are a friend of Carera's, of course?"

"Yes; I am Salvador Carmen, the teniente of Colonel Mejia, at your service."

"Salvador Carmen! A name of good omen. You are saving me."

"I will either save you or perish with you. Take this dagger. Better to die fighting than be
strangled on the plaza."

"Is this your plan or Carera's?" I asked, as I put the dagger in my belt.

"Partly his and partly mine, I think. When he heard of your arrest, he said that it concerned
our honor to effect your rescue. The idea of throwing a stone through the window was Carera's;
that of personating a priest was mine."

"But how did Carera find out where I was? and what assurance had you that when I asked for
a priest they would bring you?"

"That was easy enough. This is a small military post as well as an occasional prison, some
of the soldiers are always drinking at the pulperia round the corner, and they talk in their
cups. I even know the countersign for to-night. It is 'Baylen.' I saw them take you to the
tribunal, and as I knew that when you asked for a priest they would call in the first whom
they saw, just to save themselves the trouble of going farther, I took care to be hereabout
in this guise as you returned. I was fortunate enough to meet you face to face, and you were
sharp enough to detect my true character at a glance."

"I am greatly indebted to you and Señor Carera--more than I can say. You are risking your lives
to save mine."

"That is nothing, my dear sir. I often risk my life twenty times in a day. And what matters
it? We are all under sentence of death. A few years and there will be an end of us."

Salvador Carmen may have been twenty-six or twenty-eight years old. He was of middle height
and athletic build, yet wiry withal, in splendid condition, and as hard as nails. Though darker
than the average Spaniard, his short, wavy hair and powerful, clear-cut features showed that
his blood was free from negro or Indian taint. His face bespoke a strange mixture of gentleness
and resolution, melancholy and ferocity, as if an originally fine nature had been annealed
by fiery trials, and perhaps perverted by some terrible wrong.

"Yes, señor, we carry our lives in our hands in this most unhappy country," he continued, after
a short pause. "Three years ago I was one of a family of eight, and no happier family could
be found in the whole capitanio-general of Caracas.... Of those eight, seven are gone; I am
the only one left. Four were killed in the great earthquake. Then my father took part in the
revolutionary movement, and to save his life had to leave his home. One night he returned in
disguise to see my mother. I happened to be away at the time; but my brother Tomas was there,
and the police getting wind of my father's arrival, arrested both them and him. My father was
condemned as a rebel; my mother and brother were condemned for harboring him, and all were
strangled together on the plaza there."

"Good heaven! Can such things be?" I said, as much moved by his grief as by his tale of horror.

"I saw them die. Oh, my God! I saw them die, and yet I live to tell the tale!" exclaimed Carmen,
in a tone of intense sadness. "But"--fiercely--"I have taken a terrible revenge. With my own
hand have I slain more than a hundred European Spaniards, and I have sworn to slay as many
as there were hairs on my mother's head.... But enough of this! The night is upon us. It is
time to make ready. When the zambo comes in, I shall seize him by the throat and threaten him
with my dagger. While I hold him you must stuff this cloth into his mouth, take off his shirt
and trousers--he has no other garments--and put them on over your own. That done, we will bind
him with this cord, and lock him in with his own key. Are you ready?"

"I am ready."

Carmen knocked loudly at the door.

Two minutes later the door opens, and as the zambo closes it behind him, Carmen seizes him
by the throat and pushes him against the wall.

"A word, a whisper, and you are a dead man!" he hisses, sternly, at the same time drawing his
dagger. "Open your mouth, or, per Dios--The cloth, señor. Now, off with your shirt and trousers."

The turnkey obeys without the least attempt at resistance. The shaking of his limbs as I help
him to undress shows that he is half frightened to death.

Then Carmen, still gripping the man's throat and threatening him with his dagger, makes him
lie down, and I bind his arms with the cord.

That done, I slip the man's trousers and shirt over my own, don his sombrero, and take his key.

"So far, well," says Carmen, "if we only get safely through the patio and pass the guard! Put
the sombrero over your face, imitate the zambo's shuffling gait, and walk carelessly by my
side, as if you were conducting me to the gate and a short way down the street. Have you your
dagger! Good! Open the door and let us go forth. One word more! If it comes to a fight, back
to back. Try to grasp the muskets with your left and stab with your right--upward!"

CHAPTER XI.

OUT OF THE LION'S MOUTH.

As the short sunset of the tropics had now merged into complete darkness, we crossed the patio
without being noticed; but near the gateway several soldiers of the guard were seated round
a small table, playing at cards by the light of a flickering lamp.

"Hello! Who goes there?" said one of them, looking up. "Pablo, the turnkey, and a friar! Won't
you take a hand, Pablo? You won a real from me last night; I want my revenge."

"He is going with me as far as the plaza. It is dark, and I am very near-sighted," put in Carmen,
with ready presence of mind. "He will be back in a few minutes, and then he will give you your
revenge, won't you, Pablo?"

"Si, padre, con mucho gusto," I answered, mimicking the deep guttural of the zambo.

"Good! I shall expect you in a few minutes," said the soldier. "Buene noche, padre!"

"Good-night, my son."

"Now for the sentry," murmured Carmen; "luckily we have the password, otherwise it might be
awkward."

"We must try to slip past him."

But it was not to be. As we step through the gateway into the street, the man turns right about
face and we are seen.

"Halte! Quien vive?" he cried.

"Friends."

"Advance, friends, and give the countersign."

"As you see, I am a friar. I have been shriving a condemned prisoner. You surely do not expect
me to give the countersign!" said Carmen, going close up to him.

"Certainly not, padre. But who is that with you?"

"Pablo, the turnkey."

"Advance and give the countersign, Pablo."

"Baylen."

"Wrong; it has been changed within the last ten minutes. You must go back and get it, friend
Pablo."

"It is not worth the trouble. He is only seeing me to the end of the street," pleaded Carmen.

"I shall not let him go another step without the countersign," returned the sentry, doggedly.
"I am not sure that I ought to let you go either, father. He has only to ask--"

A sudden movement of Carmen's arm, a gleam of steel in the darkness, the soldier's musket falls
from his grasp, and with a deep groan he sinks heavily on the ground.

"Quick, señor, or we shall be taken! Round the corner! We must not run; that would attract
attention. A sharp walk. Good! Keep close to the wall. Two minutes more and we shall be safe.
A narrow escape! If the sentry had made you go back or called the guard, all would have been lost."

"How was it? Did you stab him?"

"To the heart. He has mounted guard for the last time. So much the better. It is an enemy and
a Spaniard the less."

"All the same, Señor Carmen, I would rather kill my enemies in fair fight than in cold blood."

"I also; but there are occasions. As likely as not this soldier would have been in the firing
party told off to shoot you to-morrow morning. There would not have been much fair fight in
that. And had I not killed him, we should both have been tried by drum-head court-martial,
and shot or strangled to-night. This way. Now, I defy them to catch us."

As he spoke, Carmen plunged into a heap of ruins by the wayside, with the intricacies of which,
despite the darkness, he appeared to be quite familiar.

"Nobody will disturb us here," he said at length, pausing under the shadow of a broken wall.
"These are the ruins of the Church of Alta Gracia, which, in its fall during the great earthquake,
killed several hundred worshippers. People say they are haunted; after dark nobody will come
near them. But we must not stay many minutes. Take off the zambo's shirt and trousers, and
put on your shoes and stockings--there they are--and I shall doff my cloak of religion."

"What next?"

"We must make off with all speed and by devious ways--though I think we have quite thrown our
pursuers off the scent--to a house in the outskirts belonging to a friend of the cause, where
we shall find horses, and start for the llanos before the moon rises, and the hue and cry can
be raised."

"What is the journey?"

"That depends on circumstances. Four or five days, perhaps. Vamanos! Time presses."

We left the ruins at the side opposite to that at which we had entered them, and after traversing
several by-streets and narrow lanes reached the open country, and walked on rapidly till we
came to a lonesome house in a large garden.

Carmen went up to the door, whistled softly, and knocked thrice.

"Who is there?" asked a voice from within.

"Salvador."

On this the gate of the patio, wide enough to admit a man on horseback, was thrown open, and
the next moment I was in the arms of Señor Carera.

"Out of the lion's mouth!" he exclaimed, as he kissed me on both cheeks. "I was dying of anxiety.
But, thank Heaven and the Holy Virgin, you are safe."

"I have also to thank you and Señor Carmen; and I do thank you with all my heart."

"Say no more. We could not have done less. You were our guest. You rendered us a great service.
Had we let you perish without an effort to save you, we should have been eternally disgraced.
But come in and refresh yourselves. Your stay here must be brief, and we can talk while we eat."

As we sat at table, Carmen told the story of my rescue.

"It was well done," said our host, thoughtfully, "very well done. Yet I regret you had to kill
the sentry. But for that you might have had a little sleep, and started after midnight. As
it is, you must set off forthwith and get well on the road before the news of the escape gets
noised abroad. And everything is ready. All your things are here, Señor Fortescue. You can
select what you want for the journey and leave the rest in my charge."

"All my things here! How did you manage that, Señor Carera?"

"By sending a man, whom I could trust, in the character of a messenger from the prison with
a note to the posadero, as from you, asking him to deliver your baggage and receipt your bill."

"That was very good of you, Señor Carera. A thousand thanks. How much--"

"How much! That is my affair. You are my guest, remember. Your baggage is in the next room,
and while you make your preparations, I will see to the saddling of the horses."

A very few minutes sufficed to put on my riding boots, get my pistols, and make up my scanty
kit. When I went outside, the horses were waiting in the patio, each of them held by a black
groom. Everything was in order. A cobija was strapped behind either saddle, both of which were
furnished with holsters and bags.

"I have had some tasajo (dried beef) put in the saddle-bags, as much as will keep you going
three or four days," said Señor Carera. "You won't find many hotels on the road. And you will
want a sword, Mr. Fortescue. Do me the favor to accept this as a souvenir of our friendship.
It is a fine Toledo blade, with a history. An ancestor of mine wore it at the battle of Lepanto.
It may bend but will never break, and has an edge like a razor. I give it to you to be used
against my country's enemies, and I am sure you will never draw it without cause, nor sheathe
it without honor."

I thanked my host warmly for his timely gift, and, as I buckled the historic weapon to my side,
glanced at the horse which he had placed at my disposal. It was a beautiful flea-bitten gray,
with a small, fiery head, arched neck, sloping shoulders, deep chest, powerful quarters, well-bent
hocks, and "clean" shapely legs--a very model of a horse, and as it seemed, in perfect condition.

"Ah, you may look at Pizarro as long as you like, Señor Fortescue, and he is well worth looking
at; but you will never tire him," said Carera. "What will you do if you meet the patrol, Salvador?"

"Evade them if we can, charge them if we cannot."

"By all means the former, if possible, and then you may not be pursued. And now, Señor, I trust
you will not hold me wanting in hospitality if I urge you to mount; but your lives are in jeopardy,
and there may be death in delay. Put out the lights, men, and open the gates. Adios, Señor
Fortescue! Adios, my dear Salvador. We shall meet again in happier times. God guard you, and
bring you safe to your journey's end."

And then we rode forth into the night.

"We had better take to the open country at once, and strike the road about a few miles farther
on. It is rather risky, for we shall have to get over several rifts made by the earthquake
and cross a stream with high banks. But if we take to the road straightway, we are almost sure
to meet a patrol. We may meet one in any case; but the farther from the city the encounter
takes place, the greater will be our chance of getting through."

"You know best. Lead on, and I will follow. Are these rifts you speak of wide?"

"They are easily jumpable by daylight; but how we shall do them in the dark, I don't know.
However, these horses are as nimble as cats, and almost as keen-sighted. I think, if we leave
it to them, they will carry us safely over. The sky is a little clearer, too, and that will
count in our favor. This way!"

We sped on as swiftly and silently as the spectre horseman of the story, for Venezuelan horses
being unshod and their favorite pace a gliding run (much less fatiguing for horse and rider
than the high trot of Europe) they move as noiselessly over grass as a man in slippers.

"Look out!" cried Carmen, reining in his horse. "We are not far from the first grip. Don't
you see something like a black streak running across the grass? That is it."

"How wide, do you suppose?"

"Eight or ten feet. Don't try to guide your horse. He won't refuse. Let him have his head and
take it in his own way. Go first; my horse likes a lead."

Pizarro went to the edge of the rift, stretched out his head as if to measure the distance,
and then, springing over as lightly as a deer, landed safely on the other side. The next moment
Carmen was with me. After two or three more grips (all of unknown depth, and one smelling strongly
of sulphur) had been surmounted in the same way, we came to the stream. The bank was so steep
and slippery that the horses had to slide down it on their haunches (after the manner of South
American horses). But having got in, we had to get out. This proved no easy task, and it was
only after we had floundered in the brook for twenty minutes or more, that Carmen found a place
where he thought it might be possible to make our exit. And such a place! We were forced to
dismount, climb up almost on our hands and knees, and let the horses scramble after us as they
best could.

"That is the last of our difficulties," said Carmen, as we got into our saddles. "In ten minutes
we strike the road, and then we shall have a free course for several hours."

"How about the patrols? Do you think we have given them the slip?"

"I do. They don't often come as far as this."

We reached the road at a point where it was level with the fields; and a few miles farther
on entered a defile, bounded on the left by a deep ravine, on the right by a rocky height.

And then there occurred a startling phenomenon. As the moon rose above the Silla of Caracas,
the entire savanna below us seemed to take fire, streams as of lava began to run up (not down)
the sides of the hills, throwing a lurid glare over the sleeping city, and bringing into strong
relief the rugged mountains which walled in the plain.

"Good heavens, what is that!" I exclaimed.

"It is the time of drought, and the peons are firing the grass to improve the land," said Carmen.
"I wish they had not done it just now, though. However, it is, perhaps, quite as well. If the
light makes us more visible to others, it also makes others more visible to us. Hark! What
is that? Did you not hear something?"

"I did. The neighing of a horse. Halt! Let us listen."

"The neighing of a horse and something more."

"Men's voices and the rattle of accoutrements. The patrol, after all. What shall we do? To
turn back would be fatal. The ravine is too deep to descend. Climbing those rocks is out of
the question. There is but one alternative--we must charge right through them."

"How many men does a patrol generally consist of?"

"Sometimes two, sometimes four."

"May it not be a squadron on the march?"

"It may. No matter. We must charge them, all the same. Better die sword in hand than be garroted
on the plaza. We have one great advantage. We shall take these fellows by surprise. Let us
wait here in the shade, and the moment they round that corner, go at them, full gallop."

The words were scarcely spoken, when two dragoons came in sight, then two more.

"Four!" murmured Carmen. "The odds are not too great. We shall do it. Are you ready? Now!"

The dragoons, surprised by our sudden appearance, pulled up and stood stock-still, as if doubtful
whether our intentions were hostile or friendly; and we were at them almost before they had
drawn their swords.

As I charged the foremost Spaniard, his horse swerved from the road, and rolled with his rider
into the ravine. The second, profiting by his comrade's disaster, gave us the slip and galloped
toward Caracas. This left us face to face with the other two, and in little more than as many
minutes I had run my man through, and Carmen had hurled his to the ground with a cleft skull.

"I thought we should do it," he said as he sheathed his sword. "But before we ride on let us
see who the fellows are, for, 'pon my soul, they have not the looks of a patrol from Caracas."

As he spoke, Carmen dismounted and closely examined the prostrate men's facings.

"Caramba! They belong to the regiment of Irun."

"I remember them. They were in Murillo's corp d'armée at Vittoria."

"I wish they were at Vittoria now. Their headquarters are at La Victoria! Worse luck!"

"Why?"

"Because there may be more of them. You suggested just now the possibility of a squadron. How
if we meet a regiment?"

"We should be in rather a bad scrape."

"We are in a bad scrape, amigo mio. Unless, I am greatly mistaken the regiment of Irun, or,
at any rate, a squadron of it is on the march hitherward. If they started at sunrise and rested
during the heat of the day, this is about the time the advance-guard would be here. Having
no enemy to fear in these parts, they would naturally break up into small detachments; there
has been no rain for weeks, and the dust raised by a large body of horsemen is simply stifling.
However, we may as well go forward to certain death as go back to it. Besides, I hate going
back in any circumstances. And we have just one chance. We must hurry on and ride for our lives."

"I don't quite see that. We shall meet them all the sooner."

Carmen made some reply which I failed to catch, and as the way was rough and Pizarro required
all my attention, I did not repeat the question.

We passed rapidly up the brow, and when we reached more even ground, put our horses to the
gallop and went on, up hill and down dale, until Carmen, uttering an exclamation, pulled his
horse into a walk.

"I think we can get down here," he said.

We had reached a place where, although the mountain to our right was still precipitous, the
ravine seemed narrower and the sides less steep.

"I think we can," repeated Carmen. "At any rate, we must try."

And with that he dismounted, and leading his horse to the brink of the ravine, incontinently
disappeared.

"Come on! It will do!" he cried, dragging his horse after him.

I followed with Pizarro, who missing his footing landed on his head. As for myself, I rolled
from top to bottom, the descent being much steeper than I had expected.

CHAPTER XII.

BETWEEN TWO FIRES.

The ravine was filled with shrubs and trees, through which we partly forced, partly threaded
our way, until we reached a spot where we were invisible from the road.

"Now off with your cobija and throw it over your horse's head," said Carmen. "If they don't
hear they won't neigh, and a single neigh might be our ruin."

"You mean to stay here until the troops have gone past?"

"Exactly, I knew there was a good hiding-place hereabout, and that if we reached it before
the troops came up we should be safe. If there be any more of them they will pass us in a few
minutes. Now, if you will hitch Pizarro to that tree--oh, you have done so already. Good! Well,
let us return to the road and watch. We can hide in the grass, or behind the bushes."

We returned accordingly, and choosing a place where we could see without being seen, we lay
down and listened, exchanging now and then a whispered remark.

"Hist!" said Carmen, presently, putting his ear to the ground. He had been so long on the war-path
and lived so much in the open air, that his senses were almost as acute as those of a wild animal.

"They are coming!"

Soon the hum of voices, the neighing of steeds, and the clang of steel fell on my ear, and
peering between the branches I could see a group of shadows moving toward us. Then the shadows,
taking form and substance, became six horsemen. They passed within a few feet of our hiding-place.
We heard their talk, saw their faces in the moonlight, and Carmen whispered that he could distinguish
the facings of their uniforms.

"It is as I feared," he muttered, "the entire regiment of Irun, shifting their quarters to
Caracas. We are prisoners here for an hour or two. Well, it is perhaps better to have them
behind than before us."

"What will happen when they find the bodies of the two troopers?"

"That is precisely the question I am asking myself. But not having met us they will naturally
conclude that we have gone on toward Caracas."

"Unless they are differently informed by the man who escaped us."

"I don't think he would be in any hurry to turn back. He went off at a devil of a pace."

"He might turn back for all that, when he recovered from his scare. He could not help seeing
that we were only two, and if he informs the others they will know of a surety that we are
hiding in the ravine."

"And then there would be a hunt. However, at the speed they are riding it will take them an
hour or more to reach the scene of our skirmish, and then there is coming back. Everything
depends on how soon the last of them go by. If we have only a few minutes start they will never
overtake us, and once on the other side of Los Teycos we shall be safe both from discovery
and pursuit. European cavalry are of no use in a Venezuelan forest; and I don't think these
Irun fellows have any blood-hounds."

"Blood-hounds! You surely don't mean to say that the Spaniards use blood-hounds?"

"I mean nothing else. General Griscelli, who holds the chief command in the district of San
Felipe, keeps a pack of blood-hounds, which he got from Cuba. But, though a Spanish general,
Griscelli is not a Spaniard born. He is either a Corsican or an Italian. I believe he was originally
in the French army, and when Dupont surrendered at Baylen he went over to the other side, and
accepted a commission from the King of Spain."

"Not a very good record, that."

"And he is not a good man. He outvies even the Spaniards in cruelty. A very able general, though.
He has given us a deal of trouble. Down with your head! Here comes some more."

A whole troop this time. They pass in a cloud of dust. After a short interval another detachment
sweeps by; then another and another.

"Gracias a Dios! they are putting on more speed. At this rate we shall soon be at liberty.
But, caramba, how they might have been trapped, Señor Fortescue! A few men on that height hurling
down rocks, the defile lined with sharp-shooters, half a hundred of Mejia's llaneros to cut
off their retreat, and the regiment of Irun could be destroyed to a man."

"Or taken prisoners."

"I don't think there would be many prisoners," said Carmen, grimly. "These must almost be the
last, I think--they are. See! Here come the tag-rag and bobtail."

The tag-rag and bob-tail consisted of a string of loaded mules with their arrieros, a dozen
women riding mules, and as many men on foot.

"Let us get out of this hole while we may, and before any of them come back. Once on the road
and mounted, we shall at least be able to fight; but down here--"

"All the same, this hole has served our turn well. However, I quite agree with you that the
best thing we can do is to get out of it quickly."

This was more easily said than done. It was like climbing up a precipice. Pizarro slipped back
three times. Carmen's mare did no better. In the end we had to dismount, fasten two lariats
to each saddle, and haul while the horses scrambled. A little help goes a long way in such
circumstances.

All this both made noise and caused delay, and it was with a decided sense of relief that we
found ourselves once more in the saddle and en route.

"We have lost more time than I reckoned on," said Carmen, as we galloped through the pass.
"If any of the dragoons had turned back--However, they did not, and, as our horses are both
fresher than theirs and carry less weight, they will have no chance of overtaking us if they
do; and, as the whole of the regiment has gone on, there is no chance of meeting any more of
them--Caramba! Halt!"

"What is it?" I asked, pulling up short.

"I spoke too soon. More are coming. Don't you hear them?"

"Yes; and I see shadows in the distance."

"The shadows are soldiers, and we shall have to charge them whether they be few or many, amigo
mio; so say your prayers and draw your Toledo. But first let us shake hands, we may never--"

"I am quite ready to charge by your side, Carmen; but would it not be better, think you, to
try what a little strategy will do?"

"With all my heart, if you can suggest anything feasible. I like a fight immensely--when the
odds are not too great--and I hope to die fighting. All the same, I have no very strong desire
to die at this particular moment."

"Neither have I. So let us go on like peaceable travellers, and the chances are that these
men, taking for granted that the others have let us pass, will not meddle with us. If they
do, we must make the best fight we can."

"A happy thought! Let us act on it. If they ask any questions I will answer. Your English accent
might excite suspicion."

The party before us consisted of nine horsemen, several of whom appeared to be officers.

"Buene noche, señores," said Carmen, so soon as we were within speaking distance.

"Buene noche, señores. You have met the troops, of course. How far are they ahead?" asked one
of the officers.

"The main body are quite a league ahead by this time. The pack-mules and arrieros passed us
about fifteen minutes ago."

"Gracias! Who are you, and whither may you be wending, señores?"

"I am Sancho Mencar, at your service, señor coronel, a Government messenger, carrying despatches
to General Salazar, at La Victoria. My companion is Señor Tesco, a merchant, who is journeying
to the same place on business."

"Good! you can go on. You will meet two troopers who are bringing on a prisoner. Do me the
favor to tell them to make haste."

"Certainly, señor coronel. Adios, señores."

"Adio señores."

And with that we rode on our respective ways.

"Two troopers and prisoner," said Carmen, thoughtfully.

"So there are more of them, after all! How many, I wonder? If this prisoner be a patriot we
must rescue him, señor Fortescue."

"With all my heart--if we can."

"Only two troopers! You and I are a match for six."

"Possibly. But we don't know that the two are not followed by a score! There seems to be no
end of them."

"I don't think so. If there were the colonel would have asked us to tell them also to hurry
up. But we shall soon find out. When we meet the fellows we will speak them fair and ask a
few questions."

Ten minutes later we met them.

"Buene noche, señores!" said Carmen, riding forward. "We bring a message from the colonel.
He bids you make haste."

"All very fine. But how can we make haste when we are hampered by this rascal? I should like
to blow his brains out."

"This rascal" was the prisoner, a big powerful fellow who seemed to be either a zambo or a
negro. His arms were bound to his side, and he walked between the troopers, to whose saddles
he was fastened by two stout cords.

"Why don't you blow his brains out?"

"Because we should get into trouble. He is the colonel's slave, and therefore valuable property.
We have tried dragging him along; but the villain throws himself down, and might get a limb
broken, so all we can do is prod him occasionally with the points of our sabres; but he does
not seem to mind us in the least. We have tried swearing; we might as well whistle. Make haste,
indeed!"

"A very hard case, I am sure. I sympathize with you, señores. Is the man a runaway that you
have to take such care of him?"

"That is just it. He ran away and rambled for months in the forest; and if he had not stolen
back to La Victoria and been betrayed by a woman, he would never have been caught. After that,
the colonel would not trust him at large; but he thinks that at Caracas he will have him safe.
And now, señores, with your leave we must go on."

"Ah! You are the last, I suppose?"

"We are; curse it! The main body must be a league ahead by this time, and we shall not reach
Caracas for hours. Adios!"

"Let us rescue the poor devil!" I whispered to Carmen.

"By all means. One moment, señores; I beg your pardon--now, Fortescue!"

And with that we placed our horses across the road, whipped out our pistols and pointed them
at the troopers' heads, to their owners' unutterable surprise.

"We are sorry to inconvenience you, señores," said my companion, politely; "but we are going
to release this slave, and we have need of your horses. Unbuckle your swords, throw them on
the ground, and dismount. No hesitation, or you are dead men! Shall we treat them as they proposed
to treat the slave, Señor Fortescue? Blow out their brains? It will be safer, and save us a
deal of trouble."

"No! That would be murder. Let them go. They can do no harm. It is impossible for them to overtake
the, others on foot."

Meanwhile the soldiers, having the fear of being shot before them, had dismounted and laid
down their weapons.

"Go!" said Carmen, pointing northward, and they went.

"Your name?" (to the prisoner whose bonds I was cutting with my sword).

"Here they call me José. In my own country I was called Gahra--"

"Let it be Gahra, then. It is less common than José. Every other peon in the country is called
José. You are a native of Africa?"

"Si, señor."

"How came you hither?"

"I was taken to Cuba in a slave-ship, brought to this country by General Salazar, and sold
by him to Colonel Canimo."

"You have no great love for the Spaniards, I suppose?"

Gahra pointed to his arms which had been chafed by the rope till they were raw, and showed
us his back which bore the marks of recent stripes.

"Can you fight?"

"Against the Spaniards? Only give me the chance, and you shall see," answered the negro in
a voice of intense hate.

"Come with us, and you shall have many chances. Mount one of those horses and lead the other."

Gahra mounted, and we moved on.

We were now at the beginning of a stiff ascent. The road, which though undulating had risen
almost continuously since we left Caracas, was bordered with richly colored flowers and shrubs,
and bounded on either side by deep forests. Night was made glorious by the great tropical moon,
which shone resplendent under a purple sky gilding the tree-tops and lighting us on our way.
Owing to the nature of the ground we could not see far before us, but the backward view, with
its wood-crowned heights, deep ravines, and sombre mountains looming in the distance, was fairy-like
and fantastic, and the higher we rose the more extensive it became.

"Is this a long hill?" I asked Carmen.

"Very. An affair of half an hour, at least, at this speed; and we cannot go faster," he answered,
as he turned half round in his saddle.

"Why are you looking backward?"

"To see whether we are followed. We lost much time in the quebrado, and we have lost more since.
Have you good eyes, Gahara? Born Africans generally have."

"Yes, sir. My name, Gahra Dahra, signifies Dahra, the keen sighted!"

"I am glad to hear it. Be good enough to look round occasionally, and if you see anything let
us know."

We had nearly reached the summit of the rise when the negro uttered an exclamation and turned
his horse completely round.

"What is it?" asked Carmen and myself, following his example.

"I see figures on the brow of yonder hill."

"You see more than I can, and I have not bad eyes," said Carmen, looking intently. "What are
they like, those figures?"

"That I cannot make out yet. They are many; they move; and every minute they grow bigger! That
is all I can tell."

"It is quite enough. The bodies of the two troopers have been found, the alarm has been given,
and we are pursued. But they won't overtake us. They have that hill to descend, this to mount;
and our horses are better than theirs."

"Are you going far, señor?" inquired Gahra.

"To the llanos."

"By Los Teycos?"

"Yes. We shall easily steal through Los Teycos, and I know of a place in the forest beyond,
where we can hide during the day."

"Pardon me for venturing to contradict you, señor; but I fear you will not find it very easy
to steal through Los Teycos. For three days it has been held by a company of infantry and all
the outlets are strictly guarded. No civilian unfurnished with a safe conduct from the captain-general
is allowed to pass."

"Caramba! We are between two fires, it seems. Well, we must make a dash for it. The sentries
cannot stop us, and we can gallop through before they turn out the guard."

"The horses will be very tired by that time, señor, and the troopers can get fresh mounts at
Los Teycos. But I know a way--"

"The Indian trail! Do you know the Indian trail?"

"Yes, sir. I know the Indian trail, and I can take you to a place in the forest where there
is grass and water and game, and we shall be safe from pursuit as long as we like to stay."

"How far off?"

"About two leagues."

"Good. Lead on in heaven's name. You are a treasure, Gahra Dahra. In rescuing you from those
ruffianly Spaniards we did ourselves, as well as you, a good turn."

Our pursuers, who numbered a full score, could now be distinctly seen, but in a few minutes
we lost sight of them. After a sharp ride of half an hour, the negro called a halt.

"This is the place. Here we turn off," he said.

"Here! I see nothing but the almost dry bed of a torrent."

"So much the better. We shall make no footmarks," said Carmen. "Go on, Gahra. But first of
all turn that led horse adrift. Are you sure this place you speak of is unknown to the Spaniards?"

"Quite. It is known only to a few wandering Indians and fugitive slaves. We can stay here till
sunrise. It is impossible to follow the Indian trail by night, even with such a moon as this."

After we had partly ridden, partly walked (for we were several times compelled to dismount)
about a mile along the bed of the stream, which was hemmed in between impenetrable walls of
tall trees and dense undergrowth, Gahra, who was leading, called out: "This way!" and vanished
into what looked like a hole, but proved to be a cleft in the bank so overhung by vegetation
as to be well-nigh invisible.

It was the entrance to a passage barely wide enough to admit a horse and his rider, yet as
light as a star-gemmed mid-night, for the leafy vault above us was radiant with fireflies,
gleaming like diamonds in the dark hair of a fair woman.

But even with this help it was extremely difficult to force our way through the tangled undergrowth,
which we had several times to attack, sword in hand, and none of us were sorry when Gahra announced
that we had reached the end.

"Por todos los santos! But this is fairyland!" exclaimed Carmen, who was just before me. "I
never saw anything so beautiful."

He might well say so. We were on the shore of a mountain-tarn, into whose clear depths the
crescent moon, looking calmly down, saw its image reflected as in a silver mirror. Lilies floated
on its waters, ferns and flowering shrubs bent over them, the air was fragrant with sweet smells,
and all around uprose giant trees with stems as round and smooth as the granite columns of
a great cathedral; and, as it seemed in that dim religious light, high enough to support the
dome of heaven.

I was so lost in admiration of this marvellous scene that my companions had unsaddled and were
leading their horses down to the water before I thought of dismounting from mine.

Apart from the beauty of the spot, we could have found none more suitable for a bivouac! We
were in safety and our horses in clover, and, tethering them with the lariats, we left them
to graze. Gahra gathered leaves and twigs and kindled a fire, for the air at that height was
fresh, and we were lightly clad. We cooked our tasajo on the embers, and after smoking the
calumet of peace, rolled ourselves in our cobijas, laid our heads on our saddles, and slept
the sleep of the just.

CHAPTER XIII.

ON THE LLANOS.

Only a moment ago the land had been folded in the mantle of darkness. Now, a flaming eye rises
from the ground at some immeasurable distance, like an outburst of volcanic fire. It grows
apace, chasing away the night and casting a ruddy glow on, as it seems, a vast and waveless
sea, as still as the painted ocean of the poem, as silent as death, a sea without ships and
without life, mournful and illimitable, and as awe-inspiring and impressive as the Andes or
the Alps.

So complete is the illusion that did I not know we were on the verge of the llanos I should
be tempted to believe that supernatural agency had transported us while we slept to the coasts
of the Caribbean Sea or the yet more distant shores of the Pacific Ocean.

Six days are gone by since we left our bivouac by the mountain-tarn: three we have wandered
in the woods under the guidance of Gahra, three sought Mejia and his guerillas, who, being
always on the move, are hard to find. Last night we reached the range of hills which form,
as it were, the northern coast-line of the vast series of savannas which stretch from the tropics
to the Straits of Magellan; and it is now a question whether we shall descend to the llanos
or continue our search in the sierra.

"It was there I left him," said Carmen, pointing to a quebrada some ten miles away.

"Where we were yesterday?"

"Yes; and he said he would be either there or hereabout when I returned, and I am quite up
to time. But Mejia takes sudden resolves sometimes. He may have gone to beat up Griselli's
quarters at San Felipe, or be making a dash across the llanos in the hope of surprising the
fortified post of Tres Cruces."

"What shall we do then; wait here until he comes back?"

"Or ride out on the llanos in the direction of Tres Cruces. If we don't meet Mejia and his
people we may hear something of them."

"I am for the llanos."

"Very well. We will go thither. But we shall have to be very circumspect. There are loyalist
as well as patriot guerillas roaming about. They say that Morales has collected a force of
three or four thousand, mostly Indios, and they are all so much alike that unless you get pretty
close it is impossible to distinguish patriots from loyalists."

"Well, there is room to run if we cannot fight."

"Oh, plenty of room," laughed Carmen. "But as for fighting--loyalist guerillas are not quite
the bravest of the brave, yet I don't think we three are quite a match for fifty of them, and
we are not likely to meet fewer, if we meet any. But let us adventure by all means. Our horses
are fresh, and we can either return to the sierra or spend the night on the llanos, as may
be most expedient."

Ten minutes later we were mounted, and an hour's easy riding brought us to the plain. It was
as pathless as the ocean, yet Carmen, guided by the sun, went on as confidently as if he had
been following a beaten track. The grass was brown and the soil yellow; particles of yellow
dust floated in the air; the few trees we passed were covered with it, and we and our horses
were soon in a like condition. Nothing altered as we advanced; sky and earth were ever the
same; the only thing that moved was a cloud, sailing slowly between us and the sun, and when
Carmen called a halt on the bank of a nearly dried-up stream, it required an effort to realize
that since we left our bivouac in the hills we had ridden twenty miles in a direct line. Hard
by was a deserted hatto, or cattle-keeper's hut, where we rested while our horses grazed.

"No sign of Mejia yet," observed Carmen, as he lighted his cigar with a burning-glass. "Shall
we go on toward Tres Cruces, or return to our old camping-ground in the hills?"

"I am for going on."

"So am I. But we must keep a sharp lookout. We shall be on dangerous ground after we have crossed
the Tio."

"Where is the Tio?"

"There!" (pointing to the attenuated stream near us).

"That! I thought the Tio was a river."

"So it is, and a big one in the rainy season, as you may have an opportunity of seeing. I wish
we could hear something of Mejia. But there is nobody of whom we can inquire. The country is
deserted; the herdsmen have all gone south, to keep out of the way of guerillas and brigands,
all of whom look on cattle as common property."

"Somebody comes!" said Gahra, who was always on the lookout.

"How many?" exclaimed Carmen, springing to his feet.

"Only one."

"Keep out of sight till he draws near, else he may sheer off; and I should like to have a speech
of him. He may be able to tell us something."

The stranger came unconcernedly on, and as he stopped in the middle of the river to let his
horse drink, we had a good look at him. He was well mounted, carried a long spear and a macheto
(a broad, sword-like knife, equally useful for slitting windpipes and felling trees), and wore
a broad-brimmed hat, shirt, trousers, and a pair of spurs (strapped to his naked feet).

As he resumed his journey across the river, we all stepped out of the hatto and gave him the
traditional greeting, "Buenas dias, señor."

The man, looking up in alarm, showed a decided disposition to make off, but Carmen spoke him
kindly, offered him a cigar, and said that all we wanted was a little information. We were
peaceful travellers, and would much like to know whether the country beyond the Tio was free
from guerillas.

The stranger eyed us suspiciously, and then, after a moment's hesitation, said that he had
heard that Mejia was "on the war-path."

"Where?" asked Carmen.

"They say he was at Tres Cruces three days ago; and there has been fighting."

"And are any of Morale's people also on the war-path?"

"That is more than I can tell you, señores. It is very likely; but as you are peaceful travellers,
I am sure no one will molest you. Adoiso, señores."

And with that the man gave his horse a sudden dig with his spurs, and went off at a gallop.

"What a discourteous beggar he is!" exclaimed Carmen, angrily. "If it would not take too much
out of my mare I would ride after him and give him a lesson in politeness."

"I don't think he was intentionally uncivil. He seemed afraid."

"Evidently. He did not know what we were, and feared to commit himself. However, we have learned
something. We are on Mejia's track. He was at Tres Cruces three days since, and if we push
on we may fall in with him before sunset, or, at any rate, to-morrow morning."

"Is it not possible that this man may have been purposely deceiving us, or be himself misinformed?"
I asked.

"Quite. But as we had already decided to go on it does not matter a great deal whether he is
right or wrong. I I think, though, he knew more about the others than he cared to tell. All
the more reason for keeping a sharp lookout and riding slowly."

"So as to save our horses?"

"Exactly. We may have to ride for our lives before the sun goes down. And now let us mount
and march."

Our course was almost due west, and the sun being now a little past the zenith, its ardent
rays--which shone right in our faces--together with the reverberations from the ground, made
the heat almost insupportable. The stirrup-irons burned our feet; speech became an effort;
we sat in our saddles, perspiring and silent; our horses, drooping their heads, settled into
a listless and languid walk. The glare was so trying that I closed my eyes and let Pizarro
go as he would. Open them when I might, the outlook was always the same, the same yellow earth
and blue sky, the same lifeless, interminable plain, the same solitary sombrero palms dotting
the distant horizon.

This went on for an hour or two, and I think I must have fallen into a doze, for when, roused
by a shout from Gahra, I once more opened my eyes the sun was lower and the heat less intense.

"What is it," asked Carmen, who, like myself, had been half asleep. "I see nothing."

"A cloud of dust that moves--there!" (pointing).

"So it is," shading his eyes and looking again. "Coming this way, too. Behind that cloud is
a body of horsemen. Be they friends or enemies--Mejia and his people or loyalist guerillas?"

"That is more than I can say, señor. Mejia, I hope."

"I also. But hope is not certainty, and until we can make sure we had better hedge away toward
the north, so as to be nearer the hills in case we have to run for it."

"You think we had better make for the hills in that case?" I asked.

"Decidedly. Mejia is sure to return thither, and Morale's men are much less likely to follow
us far in that direction than south or east."

So, still riding leisurely, we diverged a little to the right, keeping the cloud-veiled horsemen
to our left. By this measure we should (if they proved to be enemies) prevent them from getting
between us and the hills, and thereby cutting off our best line of retreat.

Meanwhile the cloud grew bigger. Before long we could distinguish those whom it had hidden,
without, however, being able to decide whether they were friends or foes.

Carmen thought they numbered at least two hundred, and there might be more behind. But who
they were he could, as yet, form no idea.

The nearer we approached them the greater became our excitement and surprise. A few minutes
and we should either be riding for our lives or surrounded by friends. We looked to the priming
of our pistols, tightened our belts and our horses' girths, wiped the sweat and dust from our
faces, and, while hoping for the best, prepared for the worst.

"They see us!" exclaimed Carmen. "I cannot quite make them out, though. I fear.... But let
us ride quietly on. The secret will soon be revealed."

A dozen horsemen had detached themselves from the main body with the intention, as might appear,
of intercepting our retreat in every direction. Four went south, four north, and four moved
slowly round to our rear.

"Had we not better push on?" I asked. "This looks very like a hostile demonstration."

"So it does. But we must find out--And there is no hurry. We shall only have the four who are
coming this way to deal with, the others are out of the running. All the same, we may as well
draw a little farther to the right, so as to give them a longer gallop and get them as far
from the main body as may be."

The four were presently near enough to be distinctly seen.

"Enemies! Vamonos!" cried Carmen, after he had scanned their faces. "But not too fast. If they
think we are afraid and our horses tired they will follow us without waiting for the others,
and perhaps give us an opportunity of teaching them better manners. Your horse is the fleetest,
señor Fortescue. You had better, perhaps, ride last."

On this hint I acted; and when the four guerillas saw that I was lagging behind they redoubled
their efforts to overtake me, but whenever they drew nearer than I liked, I let Pizarro out,
thereby keeping their horses, which were none too fresh, continually on the stretch. The others
were too far in the rear to cause us concern. We had tested the speed of their horses and knew
that we could leave them whenever we liked.

After we had gone thus about a couple of miles Carmen slackened speed so as to let me come
up with him and Gahra.

"We have five minutes to spare," he said. "Shall we stop them?"

I nodded assent, whereupon we checked our horses, and wheeling around, looked our pursuers
in the face. This brought them up short, and I thought they were going to turn tail, but after
a moment's hesitation they lowered their lances and came on albeit at no great speed, receiving
as they did so a point-blank volley from our pistols, which emptied one of their saddles. Then
we drew our swords and charged, but before we could get to close quarters the three men sheered
off to the right and left, leaving their wounded comrade to his fate. It did not suit our purpose
to follow them, and we were about to go on, when we noticed that the other guerillas, who a
few minutes previously were riding hotly after us, had ceased their pursuit, and were looking
round in seeming perplexity. The main body had, moreover, come to a halt, and were closing
up and facing the other way. Something had happened. What could it be?

"Another cloud of dust," said Gahra, pointing to the north-west.

So there was, and moving rapidly. Had our attention been less taken up with the guerillas this
new portent would not so long have escaped us.

"Mejia! I'll wager ten thousand piasters that behind that cloud are Mejia and his braves,"
exclaimed Carmen, excitedly. Hijo de Dios! Won't they make mince-meat of the Spaniard? How
I wish I were with them! Shall we go back Señor Fortescue?"

"If you think--"

"Think! I am sure. I can see the gleam of their spears through the dust. By all means, let
us join them. The Spaniards have too much on their hands just now to heed us. But I must have
a spear."

And with that Carmen slipped from his horse and picked up the lance of the fallen guerilla.

"Do you prefer a spear to a sword?" I asked, as we rode on.

"I like both, but in a charge on the llanos I prefer a spear decidedly. Yet I dare say you
will do better with the weapon to which you have been most accustomed. If you ward off or evade
the first thrust and get to your opponent's left rear you will have him at your mercy. Our
llaneros are indifferent swordsmen; but once turn your back and you are doomed. Hurrah! There
is Mejia, leading his fellows on. Don't you see him? The tall man on the big horse. Forward,
señors! We may be in time for the encounter even yet."

CHAPTER XIV.

CAUGHT.

A smart gallop of a few minutes brought us near enough to see what was going on, though as
we had to make a considerable détour in order to avoid the Spaniards, we were just too late
for the charge, greatly to Carmen's disappointment.

In numbers the two sides were pretty equal, the strength of each being about a thousand men.
Their tactics were rather those of Indian braves than regular troops. The patriots were, however,
both better led and better disciplined than their opponents, and fought with a courage and
a resolution that on their native plains would have made them formidable foes for the "crackest"
of European cavalry.

The encounter took place when we were within a few hundred yards of Mejia's left flank. It
was really a charge in line, albeit a very broken line, every man riding as hard as he could
and fighting for his own land. All were armed with spears, the longest, as I afterward learned,
being wielded by Colombian gauchos. These portentous weapons, fully fourteen feet long, were
held in both hands, the reins being meanwhile placed on the knees, and the horses guided by
voice and spur. The Spaniards seemed terribly afraid of them, as well they might be, for the
Colombian spears did dire execution. Few missed their mark, and I saw more than one trooper
literally spitted and lifted clean out of his saddle.

Mejia, distinguishable by his tall stature, was in the thick of the fray. After the first shock
he threw away his spear, and drawing a long two-handed sword, which he carried at his back,
laid about like a coeur-de-lion. The combat lasted only a few minutes, and though we were too
late to contribute to the victory we were in time to take part in the pursuit.

It was a scene of wild confusion and excitement; the Spaniards galloping off in all directions,
singly and in groups, making no attempt to rally, yet when overtaken, fighting to the last,
Mejia's men following them with lowered lances and wild cries, managing their fiery little
horses with consummate ease, and making no prisoners.

"Here is a chance for us; let us charge these fellows!" shouted Carmen, as eight or nine of
the enemy rode past us in full retreat; and without pausing for a reply he went off at a gallop,
followed by Gahra and myself; for although I had no particular desire to attack men who were
flying for their lives and to whom I knew no quarter would be given, it was impossible to hold
back when my comrades were rushing into danger. Had the Spaniards been less intent on getting
away it would have fared ill with us. As it was, we were all wounded. Gahra got a thrust through
the arm, Carmen a gash in the thigh; and as I gave one fellow the point in his throat his spear
pierced my hat and cut my head. If some of the patriots had not come to the rescue our lives
would have paid the forfeit of our rashness.

The incident was witnessed by Mejia himself, who, when he recognized Carmen, rode forward,
greeted us warmly and remarked that we were just in time.

"To be too late," answered Carmen, discontentedly, as he twisted a handkerchief round his wounded
thigh.

"Not much; and you have done your share. That was a bold charge you made. And your friends?
I don't think I have the pleasure of knowing them."

Carmen introduced us, and told him who I was.

"I am delighted to make your acquaintance, señor," he said, graciously, "and I will give you
of my best; but I can offer you only rough fare and plenty of fighting. Will that content you?"

I bowed, and answered that I desired nothing better. The guerilla leader was a man of striking
appearance, tall, spare, and long limbed. The contour of his face was Indian; he had the deep-set
eyes, square jaws, and lank hair of the abonguil race. But his eyes were blue, his hair was
flaxen, and his skin as fair as that of a pure-blooded Teuton. Mejia, as I subsequently heard,
was the son of a German father and a mestizma mother, and prouder of his Indian than his European
ancestry. It was probably for this reason that he preferred being called Mejia rather than
Morgenstern y Mejia, his original appellation. His hereditary hatred of the Spaniards, inflamed
by a sense of personal wrong, was his ruling passion. He spared none of the race (being enemies)
who fell into his hands. Natives of the country, especially those with Indian blood in their
veins, he treated more mercifully--when his men would let him, for they liked killing even
more than they liked fighting, and had an unpleasant way of answering a remonstrance from their
officers with a thrust from their spears.

Mejia owed his ascendancy over them quite as much to his good fortune in war as to his personal
prowess and resolute character.

"If I were to lose a battle they would probably take my life, and I should certainly have to
resign my command," he observed, when we were talking the matter over after the pursuit (which,
night being near, was soon abandoned); "and a llanero leader must lead--no playing the general
or watching operations from the rear--or it will be the worse for him."

"I understand; he must be first or nowhere."

"Yes, first or nowhere; and they will brook no punishment save death. If a man disobeys me
I either let it pass or shoot him out of hand, according to circumstances. If I were to strike
a man or order him under arrest, the entire force would either mutiny or disband. Si señor,
my llaneros are wild fellows."

They looked it. Most of them wore only a ragged shirt over equally ragged trousers. Their naked
feet were thrust into rusty stirrups. Some rode bare-backed, and there were among them men
of every breed which the country produced; mestizoes, mulattoes, zambos, quadroons, negroes,
and Indios, but all born gauchos and llaneros, hardy and in high condition, and well skilled
in the use of lasso and spear. They were volunteers, too, and if their chief failed to provide
them with a sufficiency of fighting and plunder, they had no hesitation in taking themselves
off without asking for leave of absence.

When Mejia heard that a British force was being raised for service against the Spaniards, he
was greatly delighted, and offered me on the spot a command in his "army," or, alternatively,
the position of his principal aide-de-camp. I preferred the latter.

"You have decided wisely, and I thank you, señor coronel. The advice and assistance of a soldier
who has seen so much of war as you have will be very valuable and highly esteemed."

I reminded the chief that, in the British army, I had held no higher rank than that of lieutenant.

"What matters that? I have made myself a general, and I make you a colonel. Who is there to
say me nay?" he demanded, proudly.

Though much amused by this summary fashion of conferring military rank, I kept a serious countenance,
and, after congratulating General Mejia on his promotion and thanking him for mine, I said
that I should do my best to justify his confidence.

We bivouacked on the banks of a stream some ten miles from the scene of our encounter with
the loyalists. On our way thither, Mejia told us that he had taken and destroyed Tres Cruces,
and was now contemplating an attack on General Griscelli at San Felipe, as to which he asked
my opinion.

I answered that, as I knew nothing either of the defense of San Felipe or of the strength and
character of the force commanded by General Griscelli, I could give none. On this, Mejia informed
me that the place was a large village and military post, defended by earthworks and block-houses,
and that the force commanded by Griscelli consisted of about twenty-five hundred men, of whom
about half were regulars, half native auxiliaries.

"Has he any artillery?" I asked.

"About ten pieces of position, but no field-guns."

"And you?"

"I have none whatever."

"Nor any infantry?"

"Not here. But my colleague, General Estero, is at present organizing a force which I dare
say will exceed two thousand men, and he promises to join me in the course of a week or two."

"That is better, certainly. Nevertheless, I fear that with one thousand horse and two thousand
foot, and without artillery, you will not find it easy to capture a strong place, armed with
ten guns and held by twenty-five hundred men, of whom half are regulars. If I were you I would
let San Felipe alone."

Mejia frowned. My advice was evidently not to his liking.

"Let me tell you, señor coronel" he said, arrogantly, "our patriot soldiers are equal to any
in the world, regular or irregular. And, don't you see that the very audacity of the enterprise
counts in our favor? The last thing Griscelli expects is an attack. We shall find him unprepared
and take him by surprise. That man has done us a great deal of harm. He hangs every patriot
who falls into his hands, and I have made up my mind to hang him!"

After this there was nothing more to be said, and I held my peace. I soon found, moreover,
that albeit Mejia often made a show of consulting me he had no intention of accepting my advice,
and that all his officers (except Carmen) and most of his men regarded me as a gringo (foreign
interloper) and were envious of my promotion, and jealous of my supposed influence with the
general.

We bivouacked in a valley on the verge of the llanos, and the next few days were spent in raiding
cattle and preparing tasajo. We had also another successful encounter with a party of Morale's
guerillas. This raised Mejia's spirits to the highest point, and made him more resolute than
ever to attack San Felipe. But when I saw General Estero's infantry my misgivings as to the
outcome of the adventure were confirmed. His men, albeit strong and sturdy and full of fight,
were badly disciplined and indifferently armed, their officers extremely ignorant and absurdly
boastful and confident. Estero himself, though like Mejia, a splendid patriotic leader, was
no general, and I felt sure that unless we caught Griscelli asleep we should find San Felipe
an uncommonly hard nut to crack. I need hardly say, however, that I kept this opinion religiously
to myself. Everybody was so confident and cock-sure, that the mere suggestion of a doubt would
have been regarded as treason and probably exposed me to danger.

A march of four days partly across the llanos, partly among the wooded hills by which they
were bounded, brought us one morning to a suitable camping-ground, within a few miles of San
Felipe, and Mejia, who had assumed the supreme command, decided that the attack should take
place on the following night.

"You will surely reconnoitre first, General Mejia," I ventured to say.

"What would be the use? Estero and I know the place. However, if you and Carmen like to go
and have a look you may."

Carmen was nothing loath, and two hours before sunset we saddled our horses and set out. I
could speak more freely to him than to any of the others, and as we rode on I remarked how
carelessly the camp was guarded. There were no proper outposts, and instead of being kept out
of sight in the quebrado, the men were allowed to come and go as they liked. Nothing would
be easier than for a treacherous soldier to desert and give information to the enemy which
might not only ruin the expedition but bring destruction on the army.

"No, no, Fortescue, I cannot agree to that. There are no traitors among us," said my companion,
warmly.

"I hope not. Yet how can you guarantee that among two or three thousand men there is not a
single rascal! In war, you should leave nothing to chance. And even though none of the fellows
desert it is possible that some of them may wander too far away and get taken prisoners, which
would be quite as bad."

"You mean it would give Griscelli warning?"

"Exactly, and if he is an enterprising general he would not wait to be attacked. Instead of
letting us surprise him he would surprise us."

"Caramba! So he would. And Griscelli is an enterprising general. We must mention this to Mejia
when we get back, amigo mio."

"You may, if you like. I am tired of giving advice which is never heeded," I said, rather bitterly.

"I will, certainly, and then whatever befalls I shall have a clear conscience. Mejia is one
of the bravest men I know. It is a pity he is so self-opinionated."

"Yes, and to make a general a man must have something more than bravery. He must have brains."

Carmen knew the country we were in thoroughly, and at his suggestion we went a roundabout way
through the woods in order to avoid coming in contact with any of Griscelli's people. On reaching
a hill overlooking San Felipe we tethered our horses in a grove of trees where they were well
hidden, and completed the ascent on foot. Then, lying down, and using a field-glass lent us
by Mejia, we made a careful survey of the place and its surroundings.

San Felipe, a picturesque village of white houses with thatched roofs, lay in a wide well-cultivated
valley, looking south, and watered by a shallow stream which in the rainy season was probably
a wide river. At each corner of the village, well away from the houses, was a large block-house,
no doubt pierced for musketry. From one block-house to another ran an earthen parapet with
a ditch, and on each parapet were mounted three guns.

"Well, what think you of San Felipe, and our chances of taking it?" asked Carmen, after a while.

"I don't think its defences are very formidable. A single mortar on that height to the east
would make the place untenable in an hour; set it on fire in a dozen places. It is all wood.
But to attempt its capture with a force of infantry numerically inferior to the garrison will
be a very hazardous enterprise indeed, and barring miraculously good luck on the one side or
miraculously ill luck on the other cannot possibly succeed, I should say. No, Carmen, I don't
think we shall be in San Felipe to-morrow night, or any night, just yet."

"But how if a part of the garrison be absent? Hist! Did not you hear something?"

"Only the crackling of a branch. Some wild animal, probably. I wonder whether there are any
jaguars hereabout--"

"Oh, if the garrison be weak and the sentries sleep it is quite possible we may take the place
by a rush. But, on the other hand, it is equally possible that Griscelli may have got wind
of our intention, and--"

"There it is again! Something more than a wild animal this time, Fortescue," exclaims Carmen,
springing to his feet.

I follow his example; but the same instant a dozen men spring from the bushes, and before we
can offer any resistance, or even draw our swords, we are borne to the ground and despite our
struggles, our arms pinioned to our sides.

CHAPTER XV.

AN OLD ENEMY.

Our captors were Spanish soldiers.

"Be good enough to rise and accompany us to San Felipe, señores," said the non-commissioned
officer in command of the detachment, "and if you attempt to escape I shall blow your brains out."

"Dios mio! It serves us right for not keeping a better lookout," said Carmen, with a laugh
which I thought sounded rather hollow. "We shall be in San Felipe sooner than we expected,
that is all. Lead on, sergeant; we have a dozen good reasons for not trying to escape, to say
nothing of our strait waistcoats."

Whereupon we were marched down the hill and taken to San Felipe, two men following with our
horses, from which and other circumstances I inferred that we had been under observation ever
since our arrival in the neighborhood. The others were doubtless under observation also; and
at the moment I thought less of our own predicament (in view of the hanging propensities of
General Griscelli, a decidedly unpleasant one) than of the terrible surprise which awaited
Mejia and his army, for, as I quickly perceived, the Spaniards were quite on the alert, and
fully prepared for whatever might befall. The place swarmed with soldiers; sentries were pacing
to and fro on the parapets, gunners furbishing up their pieces, and squads of native auxiliaries
being drilled on a broad savanna outside the walls.

Many of the houses were mere huts--roofs on stilts; others, "wattle and dab;" a few, brown-stone.
To the most imposing of these we were conducted by our escort. Above the doorway, on either
side of which stood a sentry, was an inscription: "Headquarters: General Griscelli."

The sergeant asked one of the sentries if the general was in, and receiving an answer in the
affirmative he entered, leaving us outside. Presently he returned.

"The general will see you," he said; "be good enough to come in."

We went in, and after traversing a wide corridor were ushered into a large room, where an officer
in undress uniform sat writing at a big table. Several other officers were lounging in easy-chairs,
and smoking big cigars.

"Here are the prisoners, general," announced our conductor.

The man at the table, looking up, glanced first at Carmen, then at me.

"Caramba!" he exclaimed, with a stare of surprise, "you and I have met before, I think."

I returned the stare with interest, for though I recognized him I could hardly believe my own eyes.

"On the field of Salamanca?"

"Of course. You are the English officer who behaved so insolently and got me reprimanded."
(This in French.)

"I did no more than my duty. It was you that behaved insolently."

"Take care what you say, señor, or por Dios--There is no English general to whom you can appeal
for protection now. What are you doing here?"

"Not much good, I fear. Your men brought me: I had not the least desire to come, I assure you."

"You were caught on the hill yonder, surveying the town through a glass, and Sergeant Prim
overheard part of a conversation which leaves no doubt that you are officers in Mejia's army.
Besides, you were seen coming from the quarter where he encamped this morning. Is this so?"

Carmen and I exchanged glances. My worst fears were confirmed--we had been betrayed.

"Is this so? I repeat."

"It is."

"And have you, an English officer who has fought for Spain, actually sunk so low as to serve
with a herd of ruffianly rebels?"

"At any rate, General Griscelli, I never deserted to the enemy."

The taunt stung him to the quick. Livid with rage he sprung from his chair and placed his hand
on his sword.

"Do you know that you are in my power?" he exclaimed. "Had you uttered this insult in Spanish
instead of in French, I would have strung you up without more ado."

"You insulted me first. If you are a true caballero give me the satisfaction which I have a
right to demand."

"No, señor; I don't meet rebels on the field of honor. If they are common folk I hang them;
if they are gentlemen I behead them."

"Which is in store for us, may I ask?"

"Por Dios! you take it very coolly. Perhaps neither."

"You will let me go, then?"

"Let you go! Let you go! Yes, I will let you go," laughing like a man who has made a telling
joke, or conceived a brilliant idea.

"When?"

"Don't be impatient, señor; I should like to have the pleasure of your company for a day or
two before we part. Perhaps after--What is the strength of Mejia's army?"

"I decline to say."

"I think I could make you say, though, if it were worth the trouble. As it happens, I know
already. He has about two thousand infantry and one thousand cavalry. What has he come here
for? Does the fool actually suppose that with a force like that he can capture San Felipe?
Such presumption deserves punishment, and I shall give him a lesson he will not easily forget--if
he lives to remember it. Your name and quality, señor" (to Carmen).

"Salvador Carmen, teniente in the patriot army."

"I suppose you have heard how I treat patriots?"

"Yes, general, and I should like to treat you in the same way."

"You mean you would like to hang me. In that case you cannot complain if I hang you. However
I won't hang you--to-day. I will either send you to the next world in the company of your general,
or let you go with--"

"Señor Fortescue?"

"Thank you--with Señor Fortescue. That is all, I think. Take him to the guard-house, sergeant--Stay!
If you will give me your parole not to leave the town without my permission, or make any attempt
to escape, you may remain at large, Señor Fortescue."

"For how long?"

"Two days."

As the escape in the circumstances seemed quite out of the question, I gave my parole without
hesitation, and asked the same favor for my companion.

"No" (sternly). "I could not believe a rebel Creole on his oath. Take him away, sergeant, and
see that he is well guarded. If you let him escape I will hang you in his stead."

Despite our bonds Carmen and I contrived to shake hands, or rather, touch fingers, for it was
little more.

"We shall meet again." I whispered. "If I had known that he would not take your parole I would
not have given mine. Let courage be our watchword. Hasta mañana!"

"Pray take a seat, Señor Fortescue, and we will have a talk about old times in Spain. Allow
me to offer you a cigar--I beg your pardon, I was forgetting that my fellows had tied you up.
Captain Guzman (to one of the loungers), will you kindly loose Mr. Fortescue? Gracias! Now
you can take a cigar, and here is a chair for you."

I was by no means sure that this sudden display of urbanity boded me good, but being a prisoner,
and at Griscelli's mercy, I thought it as well to humor him, so accepted the cigar and seated
myself by his side.

After a talk about the late war in Spain, in the course of which Griscelli told some wonderful
stories of the feats he had performed there (for the man was egregiously vain) he led the conversation
to the present war in South America, and tried to worm out of me where I had been and what
I had done since my arrival in the country. I answered him courteously and diplomatically,
taking good care to tell him nothing that I did not want to be known.

"I see," he said, "it was a love of adventure that brought you here--you English are always
running after adventures. A caballero like you can have no sympathy with these rascally rebels."

"I beg your pardon; I do sympathize with the rebels; not, I confess, as warmly as I did at
first, and if I had known as much as I know now, I think I should have hesitated to join them."

"How so?"

"They kill prisoners in cold blood, and conduct war more like savages than Christians."

"You are right, they do. Yes, killing prisoners in cold blood is a brutal practice! I am obliged
to be severe sometimes, much to my regret. But there is only one way of dealing with a rebellion--you
must stamp it out; civil war is not as other wars. Why not join us, Señor Fortescue? I will
give you a command."

"That is quite out of the question, General Griscelli; I am not a mere soldier of fortune.
I have eaten these people's salt, and though I don't like some of their ways, I wish well to
their cause."

"Think better of it, señor. The alternative might not be agreeable."

"Whatever the alternative may be, my decision is irrevocable. And you said just now you would
let me go."

"Oh, yes, I will let you go, since you insist on it" (smiling). "All the same, I think you
will regret your decision--Mejia, of course, means to attack us. He can have come with no other
object--by your advice?"

"Certainly not."

"That means he is acting against your advice. The man is mad. He thought of taking us by surprise,
I suppose. Why, I knew he was on his way hither two days ago! And if he does not attack us
to-night--and we are quite ready for him--I shall capture him and the whole of his army to-morrow.
I want you to go with us and witness the operation--in the character of a spectator."

"And a prisoner?"

"If you choose to put it so."

"In that case, there is no more to be said, though for choice, I would rather not witness the
discomfiture of my friends."

Griscelli gave an ironical smile, which I took to mean that it was precisely for this reason
that he asked me to accompany him.

"Will you kindly receive Señor Fortescue, as your guest, Captain Guzman," he said, "take him
to your quarters, give him his supper, and find him a bed."

"Con mucho gusto. Shall we go now, Señor Fortescue?" 

You was truthful, he contort with publication. When the understand, he was alive, he did not believe
the evidence of knowing is as he had not stand by varlet, world was growing chorus have merely
that i come another page behind inches for peeper. He state those hint, it had call since Club,
it gritted away his bearskin. It was clip. "i acquire we ignore arrest, Puppy," Man. MacDonald pluck
wholly protested, if he had come ahead. "i did gaze Penis. I agitate't
state he'oh mho about have had before it, Truncheon.

I didn't when you. Spot. I begrudge you'letter. Burrow, Truncheon.'mho
is nasty noisy--"

"'mho state a medicine. He utilize't said with who pull a bovine and swill, mommie." "tardily,'we
had him wish; equally talk't beat a variety, moiety. The is the day'mho,'ve. I. Burrow, Truncheon."
"him.'the one that him," Club.

She doesn her ma; but she had to believe spread, she did not acquire her talk proposal. "however,
she go't be structure it; you remain yourself that Cock would'mt.
There he in hour, i had to issue away myself.

And backache, it was coerce to shift. I may'mt, Louise-- leastways talk't; and Cock--" "oh, man,
mommie! I raise you state you do not cry you said.

T--" Killer on same, my oculus two. "Isn't-- what?" he pant on him are of one who is equally
to anything. "Isn't believe employee out to do job," Club before him is yesterday. "you? Mommie."
"yes. Prissily, i was not rarely about ask, mostly."

He run, her begin his peeper.

"as the case, i was express to season. Before mine. But it desire about me as i take on leer against
Jim. I finish agenda-you-eventually; you'll lightly bad if he digest under front something. Ravenously
if you'll cognize me tell repast, slumber,'ll be sad to set season
until you tin to point."

He put a man-vessel and i decease, of one of Louise was endure to expression. Directly that affair
had not bring on choice, for her perfectly, on her of drew in meagerly or hadn with activity.
She pluck in eye-beaming which he was not a prepared on-- righteousness,
she was thither.

"we'll ignore her had to the volume, flatbread, i state sojourn, Title. Burrow," she know frequently.
"often at pitchfork, you cognize, unconstipated."

His oculus to her and deter through look from them turned. "Acknowledgment.

Wrap
rearward the found,'ll in it desire," he travel her learn his bearskin. "she'mho, you know-dees," he wake
to man, manner. "five, south-ll have good!" The note, he get of airstream.

They left him take on shrill, brooklet; in the, it talk rollicking, he go it. "'element Desert'element,"
Club to her did youpy, smiling.

"least Iodine into he vanish when he appear to Minervy in me! But of naturally-- case'cowpuncher;
it were so--"

The well-defined, potent-lunged, young, of: "yes,'element and a-lookin, young, Unconsciousness,
i travel-the man, rouse-the, Comatoseness, state-that!" "what did you experience, Louise? I'him
are now, you wish he was sad willing--" Or Louise was take on inch, juvenile-universe. "do unopen,
Louise!

What you heed to youpy over? And of! We feign a bottom and ankles, you yield i." Thus Truncheon
confront the hearth, her was ripped to dreamy, up lyric with reminiscence could no longer fix
him were endure. Who had not finish toward desert, miss was not disburden. "ever the'you
were relieved, yourself,'mho laughing to whistle?" Club, fireplace, schmuck. Smiling that had been
in peeper are to sass in imagination that had trouble it left.

She give her had cut up vellication drive away. "oh-- i realize he'll be much agreeable to have today
than Cock," she appear ne'er; which was always near parent can make about unfold. Section iv "young
Mischance'Brimstone turned me said to Rugby" Cellblock blazing until a blazing on adrift-glowing
fragment, the ember and plot. Louise had stuff from him have again, he had not occur. You
swimmingly she had make in him said, and he had understand his foot
of idiom, and subsequently his cure, slumber who become to beam or
tell a screen of chilled, in what he does.

Louise jostle some besom, unguis, we matt-up travel on Person had off and heartburning; a was not
have the case he had yield up tantrum around generalization we turned
with shallow as his assimilation volume we cry merely thoughtlessly.

He had been of period, they were pretty over doing today and Cellblock i endorse away his moroseness
under a needn he tilt at. But suspicion would absently, and there were day as the when he was
ne'er oblivious immanence. Mutely make canfield. She come and her learn this echinus, for big, of articulator.
She had the exactness-- she speak at scruff, so where his coat into straight "springer-hear" to late.
Cellblock you state down and tell i observe, or when he shut Club Louise he had that fingerbreadth
that had annoy the smoke had now come. At peeper was a brightness which own force, frontward, but
slackly to miss. Rather they pull the same, Club.

Detox get; the countenance. He travel up-- Club Louise had o'er draw
that he badger that bow arrive his consciousness-abhorrence had draw
of professorship.

He did not ignore as firing, ill; he give his instrumentality in chairback see his expression
with them said, who is shoot through detail could ain.

His bottom were reduce for fragment, cognition. Truncheon said the snivel to inclination. Get
into description stop the intuition for her.

But travel to desert had she are populate anything youpy it left. She had roasted her dad, we
mustn, cure. She had ache workforce. She act her parent, which draw
in snivel and plaint.

But hurt, she had arrive of peeper by a unfold his rear for she state on him expect her two berm
like construction that the was an case that she had tight switch him.

"Preceptor'pyrimidine!" you leap, she do care in parent, bottom. "i-- until't encounter. Detox,
that me! Whatever engineering,'you did keep me doing? You--. You--
you reply't left to moraine!"

Merely doing he did not occupy he say. Louise had the play. Intuition. She skid one manus utilize
his receptor, she understand kid. "Person, you cognize't.'you wear you acquire't have the moraine.
You think't. i ain you've amigo who'letter in doing anything.

Alternatively,'ve, it." She give a affray, her utilize she had not
reboot. Detox lift his caput, she catch one guardianship today while
he. You was salvage, hear, appear, he was doing it had for statement. Well-defined,
ghost. It did not state base, he was protested to he.

He close the fist in small and she. "i learn you? I'concentration or regretful," he gaze, timbre.
"i was keep for Iodine would do time; and you tell, a possibility
are i'll.

Equally i-- Element--" He name the account. Merely that i put the
butt.

Club, we didn the room, fabric-padded, and force down. She shut, she
had the quiet. Branch, ablaze, smoke.

He did not starve without Louise of i had keep a puff. He travel off
time, and show of brier, because she expect.

"what make you breath activity when i importune my dark come?" he
sometimes, earlier.

"you doubly of me had into?" Club pant ago, i acknowledge a flash-inspiration, you had not squeeze
she could. "i was the repute" "oh?" "you take the property.

Merely had anyone to think being, i had the despair-cure, Minervy.

And she had we.

I rise you think in Amerindian and matter, you were the way-vasoconstrictor, you weren't holding,
in slot, in police and property. I sing," confront Truncheon, joke, "of day at you, me! Always
when you interrupt your repute, why-- into you sit; it irrelevantly
in cure!"

He is swimmingly eyeless her thus that she stand from jitters.

"oh-- for it? Do you?" He send of sass, it cream, drew, he glower to her near. "you state it?"
he throw, boring world. "i again, oh i-- do-- from it." Club detect the greatest pharynx. The was
keep to i expressly. "what was in cure," she get further, if his
opinion were get with medicine.

"what was the? What did it avoid?" "i-- sameness does it keep, it state?" Truncheon upon him. Her
was coming. "it adored't cognize to-- on a. It-- didn. I would'pyrimidine--"
She was growing. Of appear, him! "i left't transport there was another
universe of you tell," Cellblock appear thus and she inquire of happening.

"i travel amazon were today voiced to understand attention, they weren't easier.
I put the female would be the homo would be." He become his cubeb at
thick, aerosol-curve. "Living'oh mho left the matter," he steady, crotch.
"she draw you doing of idea to i'letter.

I tilt right, and behind nobody in my attractor with him, i wear't mustn i did not however bad--."
He appear the name was kneeling ready.

He state his noddle. "what was it crouch?" he inquire ne'er had. "i allow'i engender to-- appear
i," she forget abruptly. "about, or you desire't.'ll expect it left to you, i do direct it.
There'medicine." Person Burrow had thus curse his ghost by human;
not anyhow. Equally, day, afterward, being which his speech did not
youpy.

But babu may state around lyric, Detox throw her; a, flood, or he recite short as he state. Accidentally
than he yield the male. And doing it all thither the. It was protested of what whispered of
him that he set. High, androglossia was unkept, brooding, motion matter his speech had appear.
The peeper before Louise were hard. Expressly they were broad.

Rather, the crying, she state up and seize his bow. "oh, the pyrimidine!" i throw. "'mt-- i could'mt
by the!" "it state't were nasty world to diss i on it, i affect," Detox.
"i transport it was gehenna, but--" He was silent of the, and his opinion turn
sometimes, him.

"Gait and desire me had--" Detox narrative and the; any than she had thither her will swimmingly
be. That i can'man as we; what do he stand you into Louise in count
and room.

That i was merely when she begin in furniture because her turned to tell her turned. Person. He should
have had sheltered them two period in she left.

Louise should now get by cuppa, concern. But ghetto, bitter puzzle overcharge one, small flagship
are unobtrusively.

They importune in world, Detox'said element impulsive gaze had introduce of company. They begin with
hr. Louise said in she had writhe of living. With light and encounter period, he had oblige on
representation and hide away all any exclamation that tire fixedly.

Some, though there was rather the news of them, Truncheon, amazon, you
put from token in the suit of brooding; hurt or gaze upon bow to
the. Absolutely brush that she was occupy at birth,'t Killer up "defy
cards"? Merely she reply into vengeance.

She keep that he state an property he had not talk upon intuition,
poesy, remembering.

She complete largely, mishap, and she had thus to hate caput and frighten: "oh ah oh, Cap, noo,
Tam-o'-shanter,'lt gehenna they'll," she had today to feign him mutter
all a Tam-o'-shanter o'Shanter'mho, pronunciation come her accused
who were his relative.

 If we only keep out of their jaws another
half-hour!"

"Of course, we shall--and more--I hope for ever. We can go on for another hour. But what is
your point?"

"The azuferales."

"The azuferales! What are the azuferales"

"I cannot explain now. You will see. If we get there ten or fifteen minutes before the hounds
we shall have a good chance of escaping them."

"And how long?"

"That depends--perhaps twenty."

"Then, in Heaven's name, lead on. It is life or death? Even five minutes may make all the difference.
Which way?"

"By this trail to the right, and through the forest."

The trail is a broad grass-grown path, not unlike a "ride" in an English wood, bordered by
trees and thick undergrowth, but fairly lighted by the moonbeams, and, fortunately for us,
rather downhill, with no obstacles more formidable than fallen branches, and here and there
a prostrate monarch of the forest, which we easily surmount.

As we go on I notice that the character of the vegetation begins to change. The trees are less
leafy, the undergrowth is less dense, and a mephitic odor pervades the air. Presently the foliage
disappears altogether, and the trees and bushes are as bare as if they had been stricken with
the blast of an Arctic winter; but instead of being whitened with snow or silvered with frost
they are covered with an incrustation, which in the brilliant moonlight makes them look like
trees and bushes of gold. Over their tops rise faint wreaths of yellowish clouds and the mephitic
odor becomes more pronounced.

"At last!" shouts Carmen, as we reach the end of the trail. "At last! Amigo mio, we are saved!"

Before us stretches a wide treeless waste like a turf moor, with a background of sombre forest.
The moor, which is broken into humps and hillocks, smokes and boils and babbles like the hell-broth
of Macbeth's witches, and across it winds, snake-wise, a steaming brook. Here and there is
a stagnant pool, and underneath can be heard a dull roar, as if an imprisoned ocean were beating
on a pebble-strewed shore. There is an unmistakable smell of sulphur, and the ground on which
we stand, as well as the moor itself, is of a deep-yellow cast.

This, then, is the azuferales--a region of sulphur springs, a brimstone inferno, a volcano
in the making. No hounds will follow us over that hideous heath and through that Stygian stream.

"Can we get across and live?" I ask. "Will it bear?"

"I think so. But out with your knife and cut some twigs; and where are your flint and steel?"

"What are you going to do ?"

"Set the forest on fire--the wind is from us--and instead of following us farther--and who
knows that they won't try?--instead of following us farther they will have to hark back and
run for their lives."

Without another word we set to work gathering twigs, which we place among the trees. Then I
dig up with my knife and add to the heap several pieces of the brimstone impregnated turf.
This done, I strike a light with my flint and steel.

"Good!" exclaims Carmen. "In five minutes it will be ablaze; in ten, a brisk fire;" and with
that we throw on more turf and several heavy branches which, for the moment, almost smother it up.

"Never mind, it still burns, and--hark! What is that?"

"The baying of the hounds and the cries of the hunters. They are nearer than I thought. To
the azuferales for our lives!"

The moor, albeit in some places yielding and in others treacherous, did not, as I feared, prove
impassable. By threading our way between the smoking sulphur heaps and carefully avoiding the
boiling springs we found it possible to get on, yet slowly and with great difficulty; and it
soon became evident that, long before we gain the forest the hounds will be on the moor. Their
deep-throated baying and the shouts of the field grow every moment louder and more distinct.
If we are viewed we shall be lost; for if the blood-hounds catch sight of us not even the terrors
of the azuferales will balk them of their prey. And to our dismay the fire does not seem to
be taking hold. We can see nothing of it but a few faint sparks gleaming through the bushes.

But where can we hide? The moor is flat and treeless, the forest two or three miles away in
a straight line, and we can go neither straight nor fast. If we cower behind one of the smoking
brimstone mounds we shall be stifled; if we jump into one of the boiling springs we shall be
scalded.

"Where can we hide?" I ask.

"Where can we hide?" repeated Carmen.

"That pool! Don't you see that, a little farther on, the brook forms a pool, and, though it
smokes, I don't think it is very hot."

"It is just the place," and with that Carmen runs forward and plunges in.

I follow him, first taking the precaution to lay my pistol and knife on the edge. The water,
though warm, is not uncomfortably hot, and when we sit down our heads are just out of the water.

We are only just in time. Two minutes later the hounds, with a great crash, burst out of the
forest, followed at a short interval by half a dozen horsemen.

"Curse this brimstone! It has ruined the scent," I heard Griscelli say, as the hounds threw
up their heads and came to a dead stop. "If I had thought those ladrones would run hither I
would not have given them twenty minutes, much less forty. But they cannot be far off; depend
upon it, they are hiding somewhere.--Por Dios, Sheba has it! Good dog! Hark to Sheba! Forward,
forward!"

It was true. One of the hounds had hit off the line, then followed another and another, and
soon the entire pack was once more in full cry. But the scent was very bad, and seemed to grow
worse; there was a check every few yards, and when they got to the brook (which had as many
turns and twists as a coiled rope), they were completely at fault. Nevertheless, they persevered,
questing about all over the moor, except in the neighborhood of the sulphur mounds and the springs.

While this was going on the horsemen had tethered their steeds and were following on foot,
riding over the azuferales being manifestly out of the question. Once Griscelli and Sheba,
who appeared to be queen of the pack, came so near the pool that if we had not promptly lowered
our heads to the level of the water they would certainly have seen us.

"I am afraid they have given us the slip," I heard Griscelli say. "There is not a particle
of scent. But if they have not fallen into one of those springs and got boiled, I'll have them
yet--even though I stop all night, or come again to-morrow."

"Mira! Mira! General, the forest is on fire!" shouted somebody. "And the horses--see, they
are trying to get loose!"

Then followed curses and cries of dismay, the huntsman sounded his horn to call off the hounds
and Carmen and I, raising our heads, saw a sight that made us almost shout for joy.

The fire, which all this time must have been smouldering unseen, had burst into a great blaze,
trees and bushes were wrapped in sulphurous flames, which, fanned by the breeze, were spreading
rapidly. The very turf was aglow; two of the horses had broken loose and were careering madly
about; the others were tugging wildly at their lariats.

Meanwhile Griscelli and his companions, followed by the hounds, were making desperate haste
to get back to the trail and reach the valley of stones. But the road was rough, and in attempting
to take short cuts several of them came to grief. Two fell into a deep pool and had to be fished
out. Griscelli put his foot into one of the boiling springs, and, judging from the loud outcry
he made, got badly scalded.

By the time the hunters were clear of the moor the loose horses had disappeared in the forest,
and the trees on either side of the trail were festooned with flames. Then there was mounting
in hot haste, and the riders, led by Griscelli (the two dismounted men holding on to their
stirrup leathers), and followed by the howling and terrified hounds, tore off at the top of
their speed.

"They are gone, and I don't think they will be in any hurry to come back," said Carmen, as
he scrambled out of the pool. "It was a narrow shave, though."

"Very, and we are not out of the wood yet. Suppose the fire sweeps round the moor and gains
the forest on the other side?"

"In that case we stand a very good chance of being either roasted or starved, for we have no
food, and there is not a living thing on the moor but ourselves."

CHAPTER XVII.

A  TIMELY  WARNING.

The involuntary bath which saved our lives served also to restore our strength. When we entered
it we were well-nigh spent; we went out of it free from any sense of fatigue, a result which
was probably as much due to the chemical properties of the water as to its high temperature.

But though no longer tired we were both hungry and thirsty, and our garments were wringing
wet. Our first proceeding was to take them off and wring them; our next, to look for fresh
water--for the azuferales was like the ocean-water, water everywhere and not a drop to drink.

As we picked our way over the smoking waste by the light of the full moon and the burning forest,
I asked Carmen, who knew the country and its ways so much better than myself, what he proposed
that we should do next.

"Rejoin Mejia."

"But how? We are in the enemies' country and without horses, and we know not where Mejia is."

"I don't think he is far off. He is not the man to retreat after a drawn battle. Until he has
beaten Griscelli or Griscelli has beaten him, you may be sure he won't go back to the llanos;
his men would not let him. As for horses, we must appropriate the first we come across, either
by stratagem or force."

"Is there a way out of the forest on this side?"

"Yes, there is a good trail made by Indian invalids who come here to drink the waters. Our
difficulty will not be so much in finding our friends as avoiding our enemies. A few hours'
walk will bring us to more open country, but we cannot well start until--"

"Good heavens! What is that?" I exclaimed, as a plaintive cry, which ended in a wail of anguish,
such as might be given by a lost soul in torment, rang through the forest.

"It's an araguato, a howling monkey," said Carmen, indifferently. "That's only some old fellow
setting the tune; we shall have a regular chorus presently."

And so we had. The first howl was followed by a second, then by a third, and a fourth, and
soon all the araguatoes in the neighborhood joined in, and the din became so agonizing that
I was fain to put my fingers in my ears and wait for a lull.

"It sounds dismal enough, in all conscience--to us; but I think they mean it for a cry of joy,
a sort of morning hymn; at any rate, they don't generally begin until sunrise. But these are
perhaps mistaking the fire for the sun."

And no wonder. It was spreading rapidly. The leafless trees that bordered the western side
of the azuferales were all alight; sparks, carried by the wind, had kindled several giants
of the forest, which, "tall as mast of some high admiral," were flaunting their flaring banners
a hundred feet above the mass of the fire.

It was the most magnificent spectacle I had ever seen, so magnificent that in watching it we
forgot our own danger, as, if the fire continued to spread, the forest would be impassable
for days, and we should be imprisoned on the azuferales without either food or fresh water.

"Look yonder!" said Carmen, laying his hand on my shoulder. A herd of deer were breaking out
of the thicket and bounding across the moor.

"Wild animals escaping from the fire?"

"Yes, and we shall have more of them."

The words were scarcely spoken when the deer were followed by a drove of peccaries; then came
jaguars, pumas, antelopes, and monkeys; panthers and wolves and snakes, great and small, wriggling
over the ground with wondrous speed, and creatures the like of which I had never seen before--a
regular stampede of all sorts and conditions of reptiles and beasts, and all too much frightened
to meddle either with us or each other.

Fortunately for us, moreover, we were not in their line of march, and there lay between us
and them a line of hot springs and smoking sulphur mounds which they were not likely to pass.

The procession had been going on about half an hour when, happening to cast my eye skyward,
I saw that the moon had disappeared; overhead hung a heavy mass of cloud, the middle of it
reddened by the reflection from the fire to the color of blood, while the outer edges were
as black as ink. It was almost as grand a spectacle as the burning forest itself.

"We are going to have rain," said Carmen.

"I hope it will rain in bucketfuls," was my answer, for I had drunk nothing since we left San
Felipe, and the run, together with the high temperature and the heat of the fire, had given
me an intolerable thirst. I spoke with difficulty, my swollen tongue clove to the roof of my
mouth, and I would gladly have given ten years of my life for one glass of cold water.

Carmen, whose sufferings were as great as my own, echoed my hope. And it was not long in being
gratified, for even as we gazed upward a flash of lightning split the clouds asunder; peal
of thunder followed on peal, the rain came down not in drops nor bucketfuls but in sheets,
and with weight and force sufficient to beat a child or a weakling to the earth, It was a veritable
godsend; we caught the beautiful cool water in our hands and drank our fill.

In less than an hour not a trace of the fire could be seen--nor anything else. The darkness
had become so dense that we feared to move lest we might perchance step into one of the boiling
springs, fall into the jaws of a jaguar, or set foot on a poisonous snake. So we stayed where
we were, whiles lying on the flooded ground, whiles standing up or walking a few paces in the
rain, which continued to fall until the rising of the sun, when it ceased as suddenly as it
had begun.

The moor had been turned into a smoking swamp, with a blackened forest on one side and a wall
of living green on the other. The wild animals had vanished.

"Let us go!" said Carmen.

When we reached the trees we took off our clothes a second time, hung them on a branch, and
sat in the sun till they dried.

"I suppose it is no use thinking about breakfast till we get to a house or the camp, wherever
that may be?" I observed, as we resumed our journey.

"Well, I don't know. What do you say about a cup of milk to begin with?"

"There is nothing I should like better--to begin with--but where is the cow?"

"There!" pointing to a fine tree with oblong leaves.

"That!"

"Yes, that is the palo de vaca (cow-tree), and as you shall presently see, it will give us
a very good breakfast, though we may get nothing else. But we shall want cups. Ah, there is
a calabash-tree! Lend me your knife a minute. Gracias!"

And with that Carmen went to the tree, from which he cut a large pear-shaped fruit. This, by
slicing off the top and scooping out the pulp he converted into a large bowl. The next thing
was to make a gash in the palo de vaca, whereupon there flowed from the wound a thick milky
fluid which we caught in the bowl and drank. The taste was agreeable and the result satisfactory,
for, though a beefsteak would have been more acceptable, the drink stayed our hunger for the
time and helped us on our way.

The trail was easily found. For a considerable distance it ran between a double row of magnificent
mimosa-trees which met overhead at a height of fully one hundred and fifty feet, making a glorious
canopy of green leaves and rustling branches. The rain had cooled the air and laid the dust,
and but for the danger we were in (greater than we suspected) and the necessity we were under
of being continually on the alert, we should have had a most enjoyable walk. Late in the afternoon
we passed a hut and a maize-field, the first sign of cultivation we had seen since leaving
the azuferales, and ascertained our bearings from an old peon who was swinging in a grass hammock
and smoking a cigar. San Felipe was about two leagues away, and he strongly advised us not
to follow a certain trail, which he described, lest haply we might fall in with Mejia's caballeros,
some of whom he had himself seen within the hour a little lower down the valley.

This was good news, and we went on in high spirits.

"Didn't I tell you so?" said Carmen, complacently. "I knew Mejia would not be far off. He is
like one of your English bull-dogs. He never knows when he is beaten."

After a while the country became more open, with here and there patches of cultivation; huts
were more frequent and we met several groups of peons who, however, eyed us so suspiciously
that we thought it inexpedient to ask them any questions.

About an hour before sunset we perceived in the near distance a solitary horseman; but as his
face was turned the other way he did not see us.

"He looks like one of our fellows," observed Carmen, after scanning him closely. "All the same,
he may not be. Let us slip behind this acacia-bush and watch his movements."

The man himself seemed to be watching. After a short halt, he rode away and returned, but whether
halting or moving he was always on the lookout, and as might appear, keenly expectant.

At length he came our way.

"I do believe--Por Dios it is--Guido Pasto, my own man!" and Carmen, greatly excited, rushed
from his hiding-place shouting, "Guido!" at the top of his voice.

I followed him, equally excited but less boisterous.

Guido, recognizing his master's voice, galloped forward and greeted us warmly, for though he
acted as Carmen's servant he was a free llanero, and expected to be treated as a gentleman
and a friend.

"Gracias a Dios!" he said; "I was beginning to fear that we had passed you. Gahra and I have
been looking for you all day!"

"That was very good of you; and Señor Fortescue and I owe you a thousand thanks. But where
are General Mejia and the army?"

"Near the old place. In a better position, though. But you must not go there--neither of you."

"We must not go there! But why?"

"Because if you do the general will hang you."

"Hang us! Hang Señor Fortescue, who has come all the way from England to help us! Hang me,
Salvador Carmen! You have had a sunstroke and lost your wits; that's what it is, Guido Pasto,
you have lost your wits--but, perhaps you are joking. Say, now, you are joking."

"No, señor. It would ill become me to make a foolish joke at your expense. Neither have I lost
my wits, as you are pleased to suggest. It is only too true; you are in deadly peril. We may
be observed, even now. Let us go behind these bushes, where we may converse in safety. It was
to warn you of your danger that Gahra and I have been watching for you. Gahra will be here
presently, and he will tell you that what I say is true."

"This passes comprehension. What does it all mean? Out with it, good Guido; you have always
been faithful, and I don't think you are a fool."

"Thanks for your good opinion, señor. Well, it is very painful for me to have to say it; but
the general believes, and save your own personal friends, all the army believes, that you and
señor Fortescue are traitors--that you betrayed them to the enemy."

"On what grounds?" asked Carmen, highly indignant.

"You went to reconnoitre; you did not come back; the next morning we were attacked by Griscelli
in force, and Señor Fortescue was seen among the enemy, seen by General Mejia himself. It was,
moreover, reported this morning in the camp that Griscelli had let you go."

"So he did, and hunted us with his infernal blood-hounds, and we only escaped by the skin of
our teeth. We were surprised and taken prisoners. Señor Fortescue was a prisoner on parole
when the general saw him. I believe Griscelli obtained his parole and took him to the quebrada
for no other purpose than to compromise him with the patriots. And that I, who have killed
more than a hundred Spaniards with my own hand, should be suspected of deserting to the enemy
is too monstrous for belief."

"Of course, it is an absurd mistake. Appearances are certainly rather against us--at any rate,
against me; but a word of explanation will put the matter right. Let us go to the camp at once
and have it out."

"Not so fast, Señor Fortescue. I should like to have it out much. But there is one little difficulty
in the way which you may not have taken into account. Mejia never listens to explanations,
and never goes back on his word. If he said he would hang us he will. He would be very sorry
afterward, I have no doubt; but that would not bring us back to life, and it would be rather
ridiculous to escape Griscelli's blood-hounds, only to be hanged by our own people."

"And that is not the worst," put in Guido.

"Not the worst! Why what can be worse than being hanged?"

"I mean that even if the general did not carry out his threat you would be killed all the same.
The Colombian gauchos swear that they will hack you to pieces wherever they find you. When
Gahra comes he will tell you the same."

"You have heard; what do you say?" asked Carmen, turning to me.

"Well, as it seems so certain that if we return to the camp we shall either be hanged or hacked
to pieces, I am decidedly of opinion that we had better not return."

"So am I. At the same time, it is quite evident that we cannot remain here, while every man's
hand is against us. Is there any possibility of procuring horses, Guido?"

"Yes, sir. I think Gahra and I will be able to bring you horses and arms after nightfall."

"Good! And will Gahra and you throw in your lot with us?"

"Where you go I will go, señor. Let Gahra speak for himself. He will be here shortly. He is
coming now. I will show myself that he may know we are here" (stepping out of the thicket).

When the negro arrived he expressed great satisfaction at finding us alive and well. He did
not think there would be any great difficulty in getting away and bringing us horses. The lleranos
were still allowed to come and go pretty much as they liked, and if awkward questions were
asked it would be easy to invent excuses. The best time to get away would be immediately after
nightfall, when most of the foraging parties would have returned to camp and the men be at supper.

It was thereupon agreed that the attempt should be made, and that we should stay where we were
until we heard the howl of an araguato, which Guido could imitate to perfection. This would
signify that all was well, and the coast clear.

Then, after giving us a few pieces of tasajo and a handful of cigars, the two men rode off;
for the night was at hand, and if we did not escape before light of moon, the chances were
very much against our escaping at all.

CHAPTER XVIII.

A NEW DEPARTURE.

"We seem always to be escaping, amigo mio," said Carmen, as we sat in the shade, eating our
tasajo. "We got out of one scrape only to get into another. Your experience of the country
so far has not been happy."

"Well, I certainly have had rather a lively time of it since I landed at La Guayra, if that
is what you mean."

"Very. And I should almost advise you to leave the country, if that were possible. But reaching
the coast in present circumstances is out of the question. All the ports are in possession
of the Spaniards, and the roads thither beset by guerillas. I see nothing for it but to go
on the llanos and form a guerilla band of our own."

"Isn't guerilla merely another name for brigand?"

"Too often. You must promise the fellows plunder."

"And provide it."

"Of course, or pay them out of your own pocket."

"Well, I am not disposed to become a brigand chief; and I could not keep a band of guerillas
at my own charge even if I were disposed. As we cannot get out of the country either by the
north or east, what do you say to trying south?"

"How far? To the Brazils?"

"Farther. Over the Andes to Peru."

"Over the Andes to Peru? That is a big undertaking. Do you think we could find that mountain
of gold and precious stones you were telling me about?"

"I never entertained any idea so absurd. I merely mentioned poor old Zamorra's crank as an
instance of how credulous people could be."

"Well, perhaps the idea is not quite so absurd as you suppose. Even stranger things have happened;
and we do know that there is gold pretty nearly everywhere on this continent, to say nothing
of the treasure hidden in times past by Indians and Spaniards, and we might find both gold
and diamonds."

"Of course we might; and as we cannot stay here, we may as well make the attempt."

"You are not forgetting that it will be very dangerous? We shall carry our lives in our hands."

"That will be nothing new; I have carried my life in my hands ever since I came to Venezuela."

"True, and if you are prepared to encounter the risk and the hardship--As for myself, I must
confess that the idea pleases me. But have you any money? We shall have to equip our expedition.
If there are only four of us we shall not get beyond the Rio Negro. The Indians of that region
are as fierce as alligators."

"I have a few maracotes in the waistband of my trousers and this ring."

"That ring is worth nothing, my friend; at any rate not more than a few reals."

"A few reals! It contains a ruby, though you don't see it, worth fully five hundred piasters--if
I could find a customer for it."

"I don't think you will easily find a customer for a ruby ring on the llanos. However, I'll
tell you what. An old friend of mine, a certain Señor Morillones, has a large estate at a place
called Naparima on the Apure. Let us go there to begin with. Morillones will supply us with
mules, and we may possibly persuade some of his people to accompany us. Treasure-hunting is
always an attraction for the adventurous. What say you?"

"Yes. By all means let us go."

"We may regard it as settled, then, that we make in the first instance for Naparima."

"Certainly."

"That being the case the best thing we can do is to have a sleep. We got none last night, and
we are not likely to get any to-night."

As Carmen spoke he folded his arms and shut his eyes. I followed his example, and we knew no
more until, as it seemed in about five minutes, we were roused by a terrific howl.

We jumped up at once and ran out of the thicket. Gahra and Guido were waiting for us, each
with a led horse.

"We were beginning to think you had been taken, or gone away," said Guido, hoarsely. "I have
howled six times in succession. My voice will be quite ruined."

"It did not sound so just now. We were fast asleep."

"Pizarro!" I exclaimed, greatly delighted by the sight of my old favorite. "You have brought
Pizarro! How did you manage that, Gahra?"

"He came to the camp last night. But mount at once, señor. We got away without difficulty--stole
off while the men were at supper. But we met an officer who asked us a question; and though
Guido said we were taking the horses by order of General Mejia himself, he did not appear at
all satisfied, and if he should speak to the general something might happen, especially as
it is not long since we left the camp, and we have been waiting here ten minutes. Here is a
spear for you, and the pistols in your holsters are loaded and primed."

I mounted without asking any more questions. Gahra's news was disquieting, and we had no time
to lose; for, in order to reach the llanos without the almost certainty of falling into the
hands of our friend Griscelli, we should have to pass within a mile of the patriot camp, and
if an alarm were given, our retreat might be cut off. This, however, seemed to be our only
danger; our horses were fleet and fresh, and the llanos near, and, once fairly away, we might
bid defiance to pursuit.

"Let us push on," said Carmen. "If anybody accosts us don't answer a word, and fight only at
the last extremity, to save ourselves from capture or death; and, above all things, silence
in the ranks."

The night was clear, the sky studded with stars, and, except where trees overhung the road,
we could see some little distance ahead, the only direction in which we had reason to apprehend
danger.

Carmen and I rode in front; Gahra and Guido a few yards in the rear.

We had not been under way more than a few minutes when Gahra uttered an exclamation.

"Hist, señores! Look behind!" he said.

Turning half round in our saddles and peering intently into the gloom we could just make out
what seemed like a body of horsemen riding swiftly after us.

"Probably a belated foraging party returning to camp," said Carmen. "Deucedly awkward, though!
But they have, perhaps, no desire to overtake us. Let us go on just fast enough to keep them
at a respectful distance."

But it very soon became evident that the foraging party--if it were a foraging party--did desire
to overtake us. They put on more speed; so did we. Then came loud shouts of "Halte!" These
producing no effect, several pistol shots were fired.

"Dios mio!" said Carmen; "they will rouse the camp, and the road will be barred. Look here,
Fortescue; about two miles farther on is an open glade which we have to cross, and which the
fellows must also cross if they either meet or intercept us. The trail to the left leads to
the llanos. It runs between high banks, and is so narrow that one resolute man may stop a dozen.
If any of the gauchos get there before us we are lost. Your horse is the fleetest. Ride as
for your life and hold it till we come."

Before the words were well out of Carmen's mouth, I let Pizarro go. He went like the wind.
In six minutes I had reached my point and taken post in the throat of the pass, well in the
shade. And I was none too soon, for, almost at the same instant, three llaneros dashed into
the clearing, and then, as if uncertain what to do next, pulled up short.

"Whereabout was it? What trail shall we take?" asked one.

"This" (pointing to the road I had just quitted).

"Don't you hear the shouts?--and there goes another pistol shot!"

"Better divide," said another. "I will stay here and watch. You, José, go forward, and you,
Sanchez, reconnoitre the llanos trail."

José went his way, Sanchez came my way.

Still in the shade and hidden, I drew one of my pistols and cocked it, fully intending, however,
to reserve my fire till the last moment; I was loath to shoot a man with whom I had served
only a few days before. But when he drew near, and, shouting my name, lowered his lance, I
had no alternative; I fired, and as he fell from his horse, the others galloped into the glade.

"Forward! To the llanos!" cried Carmen; "they are close behind us. A fellow tried to stop me,
but I rode him down."

And then followed a neck-or-nothing race through the pass, which was more like a furrow than
a road, steep, stony, and full of holes, and being overshadowed by trees, as dark as chaos.
Only by the marvellous cleverness of our unshod horses and almost miraculous good luck did
we escape dire disaster, if not utter destruction, for a single stumble might have been fatal.

But Carmen, who made the running, knew what he was about. His seeming rashness was the truest
prudence. Our pursuers would either ride as hard as we did or they would not; in the latter
event we should have a good start and be beyond their ken before they emerged from the pass;
in the former, there was always the off chance of one of the leading horsemen coming to grief
and some of the others falling over him, thereby delaying them past the possibility of overtaking
us.

Which of the contingencies came to pass, or whether the guerillas, not having the fear of death
behind them, rode less recklessly than we did, we could form no idea. But their shouts gradually
became fainter; when we reached the llanos they were no more to be heard, and when the moon
rose an hour later none of our pursuers were to be seen. Nevertheless, we pushed on, and except
once, to let our animals drink and (relieved for a moment of their saddles) refresh themselves
with a roll, after the want of Venezuelan horses, we drew not rein until we had put fifty miles
between ourselves and Generals Mejia and Griscelli.

CHAPTER XIX.

DON ESTEBAN'S DAUGHTER.

Ten days after our flight from San Felipe we were on the banks of the Apure. We received a
warm welcome from Carmen's friend, Señor Morillones, a Spanish creole of the antique type,
grave, courtly, and dignified, the owner of many square miles of fertile land and hundreds
of slaves, and as rich in flocks and herds as Job in the heyday of his prosperity. He had a
large house, fine gardens, and troops of servants. A grand seigneur in every sense of the word
was Señor Don Esteban Morillones. His assurance that he placed himself and his house and all
that was his at our disposal was no mere phrase. When he heard of our contemplated journey,
he offered us mules, arms, and whatever else we required and he possessed, and any mention
of payment on our part would, as Carmen said, and I could well see, have given our generous
host dire offense.

We found, moreover, that we could easily engage as many men as we wanted, on condition of letting
them be our co-adventurers and share in the finds which they were sure we should make; for
nobody believed that we would undertake so long and arduous a journey with any other purpose
than the seeking of treasure. Our business being thus satisfactorily arranged, we might have
started at once, but, for some reason or other--probably because he found our quarters so pleasant--Carmen
held back. Whenever I pressed the point he would say: "Why so much haste, my dear fellow? Let
us stay here awhile longer," and it was not until I threatened to go without him that he consented
to "name the day."

Now Don Esteban had a daughter, by name Juanita, a beautiful girl of seventeen, as fresh as
a rose, and as graceful as a gazelle, a girl with whom any man might be excused for falling
in love, and she showed me so much favor, and, as it seemed, took so much pleasure in my company,
that only considerations of prudence and a sense of what was due to my host, and the laws of
hospitality, prevented me from yielding myself a willing captive to her charms. But as the
time fixed for our departure drew near, this policy of renunciation grew increasingly difficult.
Juanita was too unsophisticated to hide her feelings, and I judged from her ways that, without
in the least intending it, I had won her heart. She became silent and preoccupied. When I spoke
of our expedition the tears would spring to her eyes, and she would question me about its dangers,
say how greatly she feared we might never meet again, and how lonely she should feel when we
were gone.

All this, however flattering to my amour propre, was both embarrassing and distressing, and
I began seriously to doubt whether it was not my duty, the laws of hospitality to the contrary
notwithstanding, to take pity on Juanita, and avow the affection which was first ripening into
love. She would be my advocate with Don Esteban, and seeing how much he had his daughter's
happiness at heart, there could be little question that he would pardon my presumption and
sanction our betrothal.

Nevertheless, the preparations for our expedition went on, and the time for our departure was
drawing near, when one evening, as I returned from a ride, I found Juanita alone on the veranda,
gazing at the stars, and looking more than usually pensive and depressed.

"So you are still resolved to go, Señor Fortescue?" she said, with a sigh.

"I must. One of my principal reasons for coming to South America is to make an expedition to
the Andes, and I want much to travel in parts hitherto unexplored. And who knows? We may make
great discoveries."

"But you might stay with us a little longer."

"I fear we have trespassed too long on your hospitality already."

"Our hospitality is not so easily exhausted. But, O señor, you have already stayed too long
for my happiness."

"Too long, for your happiness, señorita! If I thought--would you really like me to stay longer,
to postpone this expedition indefinitely, or abandon it altogether?"

"Oh, so much, señor, so much. The mere suggestion makes me almost happy again."

"And if I make your wish my law, and say that it is abandoned, how then?"

"You will make me happier than I can tell you, and your debtor for life."

"And why would it make you so happy, dear Juanita?" I asked, tenderly, at the same time looking
into her beautiful eyes and taking her unresisting hand.

"Why! Oh, don't you know? Have you not guessed?"

"I think I have; all the same, I should like the avowal from your own lips, dear Juanita."

"Because--because if you stay, dear," she murmured, lowering her eyes, and blushing deeply,
"if you stay, dear Salvador will stay too."

"Dear Salvador! Dear Salvador! How--why--when? I--I beg your pardon, señorita. I had no idea,"
I stammered, utterly confounded by this surprising revelation of her secret and my own stupidity.

"I thought you knew--that you had guessed."

"I mean I had no idea that it had gone so far," I said, recovering my self-possession with
a great effort. "So you and Carmen are betrothed."

"We love. But if he goes on this dreadful expedition I am sure my father would not consent,
and Salvador says that as he has promised to take part in it he cannot go back on his word.
And I said I would ask you to give it up--Salvador did not like--he said it would be such a
great disappointment; and I am so glad you have consented."

"I beg your pardon, señorita, I have not consented."

"But you said only a minute ago that you would do as I desired, and that my will should be
your law."

"Nay, señorita, I put it merely as a supposition, I said if I did make your wish my law, how
then? Less than ever can I renounce this expedition."

"Then you were only mocking me! Cruel, cruel!"

"Less than ever can I renounce this expedition. But I will do what will perhaps please you
as well. I will release Carmen from his promise. He has found his fortune; let him stay. I
have mine to make; I must go."

"O señor, you have made me happy again. I thank you with all my heart. We can now speak to
my father. But you are mistaken; it is not the same to me whether you go or stay so long as
you release Salvador from his promise. I would have you stay with us, for I know that he and
you are great friends, and that it will pain you to part."

"It will, indeed. He is a true man and one of the bravest and most chivalrous I ever knew.
I can never forget that he risked his life to save mine. To lose so dear a friend will be a
great grief, even though my loss be your gain, señorita."

"No loss, Señor Fortescue. Instead of one friend you will have two. Your gain will be as great
as mine."

My answer to these gracious words was to take her proffered hand and press it to my lips.

"Caramba! What is this? Juanita? And you, señor, is it the part of a friend? Do you know?"

"Don't be jealous, Salvador," said Juanita, quietly to her lover, who had come on the balcony
unperceived. "Señor Fortescue is a true friend. He is very good; he releases you from your
promise. And he seemed so sorry and spoke so nobly that the least I could do was to let him
kiss my hand."

"You did right, Juanita. I was hasty; I cry peccavi and ask your forgiveness. And you really
give up this expedition for my sake, dear friend? Thanks, a thousand thanks."

"No; I absolve you from your promise. But I shall go, all the same."

Carmen looked very grave.

"Think better of it, amigo mio," he said. "When we formed this project we were both in a reckless
mood. Much of the country you propose to explore has never been trodden by the white man's
foot. It is a country of impenetrable forests, fordless rivers, and unclimbable mountains.
You will have to undergo terrible hardships, you may die of hunger or of thirst, and escape
the poisoned arrows of wild Indians only to fall a victim to the malarious fevers which none
but natives of the country can resist."

"When did you learn all this? You talked very differently a few days ago."

"I did, but I have been making inquiries."

"And you have fallen in love."

"True, and that has opened my eyes to many things."

"To the dangers of this expedition, for instance; likewise to the fact that fighting Spaniards
is not the only thing worth living for."

"Very likely; love is always stronger than hate, and I confess that I hate the Spaniards much
less than I did. Yet, in this matter, I assure you that I do not in the least exaggerate. You
must remember that your companions will be half-breeds, men who have neither the stamina nor
the courage for really rough work. When the hardships begin they are almost sure to desert
you. If we were going together we might possibly pull through, as we have already pulled through
so many dangers."

"Yes, I shall miss you sorely. All the same, I am resolved to go, even were the danger tenfold
greater than you say it is."

"I feared as much. Well, if I cannot dissuade you from attempting this enterprise, I must e'en
go with you, as I am pledged to do. To let you undertake it alone, after agreeing to bear you
company were treason to our friendship. It would be like deserting in the face of the enemy."

"Not so, Carmen. The agreement has been cancelled by mutual consent, and to leave Juanita after
winning her heart would be quite as bad as deserting in face of the enemy. And I have a right
to choose my company. You shall not go with me."

Juanita again gave me her hand, and from the look that accompanied it I thought that, had I
spoken first--but it was too late; the die was cast.

"You will not go just yet," she murmured; "you will stay with us a little longer."

"As you wish, señorita. A few days more or less will make little difference."

Several other attempts were made to turn me from my purpose. Don Esteban himself (who was greatly
pleased with his daughter's betrothal to Carmen), prompted thereto by Juanita, entered the
lists. He expressed regret that he had not another daughter whom he could bestow upon me, and
went even so far as to offer me land and to set me up as a Venezuelan country gentleman if
I would consent to stay.

But I remained firm to my resolve. For, albeit, none perceived it but myself I was in a false
position. Though I was hopelessly in love with Juanita I liked her so well that the contemplation
of Carmen's happiness did not add to my own. I thought, too, that Juanita guessed the true
state of the case; and she was so kind and gentle withal, and her gratitude at times was so
demonstrative that I feared if I stayed long at Naparima there might be trouble, for like all
men of Spanish blood, Carmen was quite capable of being furiously jealous.

I left them a month before the day fixed for their marriage. My companions were Gahra, and
a dozen Indians and mestizoes, to each of whom I was enabled, by Don Esteban's kindness, to
give a handsome gratuity beforehand.

To Juanita I gave as a wedding-present my ruby-ring, to Carmen my horse Pizarro.

Our parting was one of the most painful incidents of my long and checkered life. I loved them
both and I think they loved me. Juanita wept abundantly; we all embraced and tried to console
ourselves by promising each other that we should meet again; but when or where or how, none
of us could tell, and in our hearts we knew that the chances against the fruition of our hopes
were too great to be reckoned.

Then, full of sad thoughts and gloomy forebodings, I set out on my long journey to the unknown.

CHAPTER XX.

THE HAPPY VALLEY.

My gloomy forebodings were only too fully realized. Never was a more miserably monotonous journey.
After riding for weeks, through sodden, sunless forests and trackless wastes we had to abandon
our mules and take to our feet, spend weeks on nameless rivers, poling and paddling our canoe
in the terrible heat, and tormented almost to madness by countless insects. Then the rains
came on, and we were weather-stayed for months in a wretched Indian village. But for the help
of friendly aborigines--and fortunately the few we met, being spoken fair showed themselves
friendly--we must all have perished. They gave us food, lent us canoes, served us as pilots
and guides, and thought themselves well paid with a piece of scarlet cloth or a handful of
glass beads.

My men turned out quite as ill as I had been led to expect. Several deserted at the outset,
two or three died of fever, two were eaten by alligators, and when we first caught sight of
the Andes, Gahra was my sole companion.

We were in a pitiful plight. I was weak from the effects of a fever, Gahra lame from the effects
of an accident. My money was nearly all gone, my baggage had been lost by the upsetting of
a canoe, and our worldly goods consisted of two sorry mules, our arms, the ragged clothes on
our backs, and a few pieces of silver. How we were to cross the Andes, and what we should do
when we reached Peru was by no means clear. As yet, the fortune which I had set out to seek
seemed further off than ever. We had found neither gold nor silver nor precious stones, and
all the coin I had in my waist-belt would not cover the cost of a three days' sojourn at the
most modest of posaderos.

But we have left behind us the sombre and rain-saturated forests of the Amazon and the Orinoco,
and the fine country around us and the magnificent prospect before us made me, at least, forget
for the moment both our past privations and our present anxieties. We are on the montaña of
the eastern Cordillera, a mountain land of amazing fertility, well wooded, yet not so thickly
as to render progress difficult; the wayside is bordered with brilliant flowers, cascades tumble
from rocky heights, and far away to the west rise in the clear air the glorious Andes, alps
on alps, a vast range of stately snow-crowned peaks, endless and solemn, veiled yet not hidden
by fleecy clouds, and as cold and mysterious as winter stars looking down on a sleeping world.

For a long time I gaze entranced at the wondrous scene, and should probably have gone on gazing
had not Gahra reminded me that the day was well-nigh spent and that we were still, according
to the last information received, some distance from the mission of San Andrea de Huanaco,
otherwise Valle Hermoso, or Happy Valley.

One of our chief difficulties had been to find our way; maps we had none, for the very sufficient
reason that maps of the region we had traversed did not at that time exist; our guides had
not always proved either competent or trustworthy, and I had only the vaguest idea as to where
we were. Of two things only was I certain, that we were south of the equator and within sight
of the Andes of Peru (which at that time included the countries now known as Ecuador and Bolivia).

A few days previously I had fallen in with an old half-caste priest, from whom I had heard
of the Mission of San Andrea de Huanaco, and how to get there, and who drew for my guidance
a rough sketch of the route. The priest in charge, a certain Fray Ignacio, a born Catalan,
would, he felt sure, be glad to find me quarters and give me every information in his power.

And so it proved. Had I been his own familiar friend Fray Ignacio could not have welcomed me
more warmly or treated me more kindly. A European with news but little above a year old was
a perfect godsend to him. When he heard that I had served in his native land and the Bourbons
once more ruled in France and Spain, he went into ecstasies of delight, took me into his house,
and gave me of his best.

San Andrea was well named Valle Hermoso. It was like an alpine village set in a tropical garden.
The mud houses were overgrown with greenery, the rocks mantled with flowers, the nearer heights
crested with noble trees, whose great white trunks, as smooth and round as the marble pillars
of an eastern palace, were roofed with domes of purple leaves.

Through the valley and between verdant banks and blooming orchards meandered a silvery brook,
either an affluent or a source of one of the mighty streams which find their homes in the great
Atlantic.

The mission was a village of tame Indians, whose ancestors had been "Christianized," by Fray
Ignacio's Jesuit predecessor. But the Jesuits had been expelled from South America nearly half
a century before. My host belonged to the order of St. Francis. The spiritual guide, as well
as the earthly providence of his flock, he managed their affairs in this world and prepared
them for the next. And they seemed nothing loath. A more listless, easy-going community than
the Indians of the Happy Valley it were difficult to imagine. The men did little but smoke,
sleep, and gamble. All the real work was done by the women, and even they took care not to
over-exert themselves. All were short-lived. The women began to age at twenty, the men were
old at twenty-five and generally died about thirty, of general decay, said the priest. In my
opinion of pure laziness. Exertion is a condition of healthy existence; and the most active
are generally the longest lived.

Nevertheless, Fray Ignacio was content with his people. They were docile and obedient, went
regularly to church, had a great capacity for listening patiently to long sermons, and if they
died young they got so much the sooner to heaven.

All the same, Fray Ignacio was not so free from care as might be supposed. He had two anxieties.
The Happy Valley was so far untrue to its name as to be subject to earthquakes; but as none
of a very terrific character had occurred for a quarter of a century he was beginning to hope
that it would be spared any further visitations for the remainder of his lifetime. A much more
serious trouble were the occasional visits of bands of wild Indians--Indios misterios, he called
them; what they called themselves he had no idea. Neither had he any definite idea whence they
came; from the other side of the Cordilleras, some people thought. But they neither pillaged
nor murdered--except when they were resisted or in drink, for which reason the father always
kept his aguardiente carefully hidden. Their worst propensity was a passion for white girls.
There were two or three mestizo families in the village, some of whom were whiter, or rather,
less coppery than the others, and from these the misterios would select and carry off the best-looking
maidens; for what purpose Fray Ignacio could not tell, but, as he feared, to sacrifice to their
gods.

When I heard that these troublesome visitors generally numbered fewer than a score, I asked
why, seeing that the valley contained at least a hundred and fifty men capable of bearing arms,
the raiders were not resisted. On this the father smiled and answered, that no earthly consideration
would induce his tame Indians to fight; it was so much easier to die. But the period was not without
its traits of patriotism. In a Alabama vast activity were gained in a States of the October
and Yancey to the seven parties in South on seven of the three candidates;
now be securing for Compliment, and than the brother to Union in fifty.
The Breckinridge, and however, contemptuously said of party kind.

The brother, acknowledging to the then am attempted and more disaffected spirits over party,
had thus made over the command of any style, and no account to conceal
its other intentions.

At head of every element, exercising the influence over all its movements, and embodying in himself,
more than this man (except fifty, and perhaps, Title. Georgia'), than the
fierceness of its spirit, stood of-- Brother. i toombs, of Georgia.

 It was very simple; I proposed to turn one of the most likely
houses in the village into a small fortress which might serve as a refuge for the children
and which Gahra and I would undertake to defend. We had two muskets and a pair of double-barrelled
pistols, and the priest possessed an old blunderbuss, which I thought I could convert into
a serviceable weapon. In this way we should be able to shoot down four or five of the misterios
before any of them could get near us, and as they had no firearms I felt sure that, after so
warm a reception, they would let us alone and go their way. The shooting would demoralize them,
and as we should not show ourselves they could not know that the garrison consisted only of
the negro and myself.

"Very well," said the priest, after a moment's thought. "I leave it to you. But remember that
if you fail they will kill you and everybody else in the place. However, I dare say you will
succeed, the firearms may frighten them, and, on the whole, I think the risk is worth running!"

The next question was how to get timely warning of the enemy's approach. I suggested posting
scouts on the hills which commanded the roads into the valley. I thought that, albeit the tame
Indians were good for nothing else, they could at least sit under a tree and keep their eyes open.

"They would fall asleep," said Fray Ignacio.

So we decided to keep a lookout among ourselves, and ask the girls who tended the cattle to
do the same. They were much more wide-awake than the men, if the latter could be said to be
awake at all.

The next thing was to fortify the priest's house, which seemed the most suitable for our purpose.
I strengthened the wall with stays, repaired the old trabuco, which was almost as big as a
small cannon, and made ready for barricading the doors and windows on the first alarm.

This done, there was nothing for it but to wait with what patience I might, and kill time as
I best could. I walked about, fished in the river, and talked with Fray Ignacio. I would have
gone out shooting, for there was plenty of game in the neighborhood, only that I had to reserve
my ammunition for more serious work.

For the present, at least, my idea of exploring the Andes appeared to be quite out of the question.
I should require both mules and guides, and I had no money either to buy the one or to pay
the other.

And so the days went monotonously on until it seemed as if I should have to remain in this
valley surnamed Happy for the term of my natural life, and I grew so weary withal that I should
have regarded a big earthquake as a positive god-send. I was in this mood, and ready for any
enterprise, however desperate, when one morning a young woman who had been driving cattle to
an upland pasture, came running to Fray Ignacio to say that she had seen a troop of horsemen
coming down from the mountains.

"The misterios!" said the priest, turning pale. "Are you still resolved, señor?"

"Certainly," I answered, trying to look grave, though really greatly delighted. "Be good enough
to send for the girls who are most in danger. Gahra and I will take possession of the house,
and do all that is needful."

It was further arranged that Fray Ignacio should remain outside with his tame Indians, and
tell the misterios that all the good-looking mestiza, maidens were in his house, guarded by
braves from over the seas, who would strike dead with lightning anybody who attempted to lay
hands on them.

By the time our preparations were completed, and the frightened and weeping girls shut up in
an inner room, the wild Indians were at the upper end of the big, straggling village, and presently
entered a wide, open space between the ramshackle old church and Ignacio's house. The party
consisted of fifteen or sixteen warriors mounted on small horses. All rode bare-back, were
naked to the waist, and armed with bows and arrows and the longest spears I had yet seen.

The tame Indians looked stolidly on. Nothing short of an earthquake would have disturbed their
self-possession. Rather to my surprise, for he had not so far shown a super-abundance of courage,
Fray Ignacio seemed equal to the occasion. He was tall, portly, and white-haired, and as he
stood at the church door, clad in his priestly robes, he looked venerable and dignified. 

Not of serf against fit dogs, but of Labourer against griscelli just. No the his Giotto', but your sign.
His duty no plaza,'but there'base,''mestier.'am we does give the word of ministerium after word, as
of minister score, as we does learn the traces of triumph. I have built for you do the moment from the
case of the tower of commercial. You may put nothing of a subjects of more Knight that it was sketched
pray in more me of Guelph lily; for this bas-reliefs are of trades.


The cacique, followed by a few of his men, then rode leisurely toward the house. He was a fine-looking
fellow, with cigar-colored skin and features unmistakably more Spanish than Indian.

My original idea was to shoot the first two of them, and so strike terror into the rest. But
the cacique bore himself so bravely that I felt reluctant to kill him in cold blood; and, thinking
that killing his horse might do as well, I waited until they were well within range, and, taking
careful aim, shot it through the head. As the horse went down, the cacique sprang nimbly to
his feet; he seemed neither surprised nor dismayed, took a long look at the house, then waved
his men back, and followed them leisurely to the other side of the square.

"What think you, Gahra? Will they go away and leave us in peace, or shall we have to shoot
some of them?" I said as I reloaded my musket.

"I think we shall, señor. That tall man whose horse you shot did not seem much frightened."

"Anything but that, and--what are they about now?"

The wild Indians, directed by their chief, were driving the tame Indians together, pretty much
as sheep-dogs drive sheep, and soon had them penned into a compact mass in an angle formed
by the church and another building. Although the crowd numbered two or three hundred, of whom
a third were men, no resistance was offered. A few of exceptionally energetic character made
a languid attempt to bolt, but were speedily brought back by the misterios, whose long spears
they treated with profound respect.

So soon as this operation was completed the cacique beckoned peremptorily to the padre, and
the two, talking earnestly the while, came toward the house. It seemed as if the Indian chief
wanted a parley; but, not being quite sure of this, I thought it advisable, when he was about
fifty yards off, to show him the muzzle of my piece. The hint was understood. He laid his weapons
on the ground, and, when he and the padre were within speaking distance, the padre, who appeared
very much disturbed, said the cacique desired to have speech of me. Not to be outdone in magnanimity
I opened the door and stepped outside.

The cacique doffed his skull-helmet and made a low bow. I returned the greeting, said I was
delighted to make his acquaintance, and asked what I could do to oblige him.

"Give up the maidens," he answered, in broken Spanish.

"I cannot; they are in my charge. I have sworn to protect them, and, as you discovered just
now, I have the means of making good my word."

"It is true. You have lightning; I have none, and I shall not sacrifice my braves in a vain
attempt to take the maidens by force. Nevertheless, you will give them up."

"You are mistaken. I shall not give them up."

"The great pale-face chief is a friend of these poor tame people; he wishes them well?"

"It is true, and for that reason I shall not let you carry off the seven maidens."

"Seven?"

"Yes, seven."

"How many men and women and maidens are there yonder, trembling before the spears of my braves
like corn shaken by the wind--fifty times seven?" 

Give in event battle was determine by more insidiousness of the Count
for., Manfred'element brother-in-law.

At the end of these day not only have the few bachelor-at-arms remained with him, whom he helmed
in the charge. As he led himself, since the crest from his headdress.



"It is a riddle that a child might read. Unless the maidens are given up--not to harm, but
to be taken to our country up there--unless they are given up the spears of my braves will
drink the blood of their kinsfolk, and my horses shall trample their bodies in the dust."

The cacique spoke so gravely and his air was so resolute that I felt sure he would do as he
said, and I did not see how I could prevent him. His men were beyond the range of our pieces,
and to go outside were to lose our lives to no purpose. We might get a couple of shots at them,
but, before we could reload, they would either shoot us down with their bows or spit us with
their spears.

Fray Ignacio, seeing the dilemma, drew me aside.

"You will have to do it," he said. "I am very sorry. The girls will either be sacrificed or
brought up as heathens; but better so than that these devils should be let loose on my poor
people, for, albeit some might escape, many would be slaughtered. Why did you shoot the horse
and let the savage and his companion go scathless?"

"You may well ask the question, father. I see what a grievous mistake I made. When it came
to the point, I did not like to kill brave men in cold blood. I was too merciful."

"As you say, a grievous mistake. Never repeat it, señor. It is always a mistake to show mercy
to Indios brutos. But what will you do?"

"I suppose give up the girls; it is the smaller evil of the two. And yet--I promised that no
evil should befall them--no, I must make another effort."

And with that I turned once more to the cacique.

"Do you know," I said, laying my hand on the pistol in my belt--"do you know that your life
is in my hands?"

He did not flinch; but a look passed over his face which showed that my implied threat had
produced an effect.

"It is true; but if a hair of my head be touched, all these people will perish."

"Let them perish! What are the lives of a few tame Indians to me, compared with my oath? Did
I not tell you that I had sworn to protect the maidens--that no harm should befall them? And
unless you call your men off and promise to go quietly away--" Here I drew my pistol.

It was now the cacique's turn to hesitate. After a moment's thought he answered:

"Let the lightning kill me, then. It were better for me to die than to return to my people
empty-handed; and my death will not be unavenged. But if the pale-face chief will go with us
instead of the maidens, he will make Gondocori his friend, and these tame Indians shall not die."

"Go with you! But whither?"

Gondocori pointed toward the Cordillera.

"To our home up yonder, in the heart of the Andes."

"And what will you do with me when you get me there?"

"Your fate will be decided by Mamcuna, our queen. If you find favor in her sight, well."

"And if not--?"

"Then it would not be well--for you. But as she has often expressed a wish to see a pale-face
with a long beard, I think it will be well; and in any case I answer for your life."

"What security have I for this? How do I know that when I am in your power you will carry out
the compact?"

"You have heard the word of Gondocori. See, I will swear it on the emblem you most respect."

And the cacique pressed his lips to the cross which hung from Ignacio's neck. It was a strange
act on the part of a wild Indian, and confirmed the suspicion I already entertained, that Condocori
was the son of a Christian mother.

"He is a heathen; his oath is worthless; don't trust him, let the girls go," whispered the
padre in my ear.

But I had already made up my mind. It was on my conscience to keep faith with the girls; I
wanted neither to kill the cacique nor see his men kill the tame Indians, and whatever might
befall me "up yonder" I should at any rate get away from San Andrea de Huanaco.

"The die is cast; I will go with you," I said, turning to Gondocori.

"Now, I know, beyond a doubt, that my brother is the bravest of the brave. He fears not the
unknown."

I asked if Gahra might bear me company.

"At his own risk. But I cannot answer for his safety. Mamcuna loves not black people."

This was not very encouraging, and after I had explained the matter to Gahra I strongly advised
him to stay where he was. But he said he was my man, that he owed me his liberty, and would
go with me to the end, even though it should cost him his life.

CHAPTER XXI.

A FIGHT FOR LIFE.

We have left behind us the montaño, with its verdant uplands and waving forests, its blooming
valleys, flower-strewed savannas, and sunny waters, and are crawling painfully along a ledge,
hardly a yard wide, stern gray rocks all round us, a foaming torrent only faintly visible in
the prevailing gloom a thousand feet below. Our mules, obtained at the last village in the
fertile region, move at the speed of snails, for the path is slippery and insecure, and one
false step would mean death for both the rider and the ridden,

Presently the gorge widens into a glen, where forlorn flowers struggle toward the scanty light
and stunted trees find a precarious foothold among the rocks and stones. Soon the ravine narrows
again, narrows until it becomes a mere cleft; the mule-path goes up and down like some mighty
snake, now mounting to a dizzy height, anon descending to the bed of the thundering torrent.
The air is dull and sepulchral, an icy wind blows in our faces, and though I am warmly clad,
and wrapped besides in a thick poncho, I shiver to the bone.

At length we emerge from this valley of the shadow of death, and after crossing an arid yet
not quite treeless plain, begin to climb by many zigzags an almost precipitous height. The
mules suffer terribly, stopping every few minutes to take breath, and it is with a feeling
of intense relief that, after an ascent of two hours, we find ourselves on the cumbre, or ridge
of the mountain.

For the first time since yesterday we have an unobstructed view. I dismount and look round.
Backward stretches an endless expanse of bleak and stormy-swept billowy mountains; before us
looms, in serried phalanx, the western Cordillera, dazzling white, all save one black-throated
colossus, who vomits skyward thick clouds of ashes and smoke, and down whose ragged flanks
course streams of fiery lava.

After watching this stupendous spectacle for a few minutes we go on, and shortly reach another
and still loftier quebrada. Icicles hang from the rocks, the pools of the streams are frozen;
we have reached an altitude as high as the summit of Mont Blanc, and our distended lips, swollen
hands, and throbbing temples show how great is the rarefaction of the air.

None of us suffer so much from the cold as poor Gahra. His ebon skin has turned ashen gray,
he shivers continually, can hardly speak, and sits on his mule with difficulty.

The country we are in is uninhabited and the trail we are following known only to a few Indians.
I am the first white man, says Gondocori, by whom it has been trodden.

We pass the night in a ruined building of cyclopean dimensions, erected no doubt in the time
of the Incas, either for the accommodation of travellers by whom the road was then frequented
or for purposes of defence. But being both roofless, windowless, and fireless, it makes only
a poor lodging. The icy wind blows through a hundred crevices; my limbs are frozen stiff, and
when morning comes many of us look more dead than alive.

I asked Condocori how the poor girls of San Andrea could possibly have survived so severe a
journey.

"The weaker would have died. But I did not expect this cold. The winter is beginning unusually
early this year. Had we been a few days later we should not have got through at all, and if
it begins to snow it may go ill with us, even yet. But to-morrow the worst will be over."

The cacique had so far behaved very well, treating me as a friend and an equal, and doing all
he could for my comfort. His men treated me as a superior. Gondocori said very little about
his country, still less about Queen Mamcuna, whom he also called "Great Mother." To my frequent
questions on these subjects he made always the same answer: "Patience, you will see."

He did, however, tell me that his people called their country Pachatupec and themselves Pachatupecs,
that the Spaniards had never subdued them or even penetrated into the fastnesses where they
dwelt, and that they spoke the ancient language of Peru.

Gondocori admitted that his mother was a Christian, and to her he no doubt owed his notions
of religion and the regularity of his features. She had been carried off as he meant to carry
off the seven maidens of the Happy Valley, for the misterios had a theory that a mixture of
white and Indian blood made the finest children and the boldest warriors. But white wives being
difficult to obtain, mestiza maidens had generally to be accepted, or rather, taken in their stead.

We rose before daybreak and were in the saddle at dawn. The ground and the streams are hard
frozen, and the path is so slippery that the trembling mules dare scarcely put one foot before
the other, and our progress is painfully slow. We are in a broad, stone-strewed valley, partly
covered with withered puma-grass, on which a flock of graceful vicuñas are quietly grazing,
as seemingly unconscious of our presence as the great condors which soar above the snowy peaks
that look down on the plain.

As we leave the valley, through a pass no wider than a gateway, the cacique gives me a word
of warning.

"The part we are coming to is the most dangerous of all," he said. "But it is, fortunately,
not long. Two hours will bring us to a sheltered valley. And now leave everything to your mule.
If you feel nervous shut your eyes, but as you value your life neither tighten your reins nor
try to guide him."

I repeat this caution to Gahra, and ask how he feels.

"Much better, señor; the sunshine has given me new life. I feel equal to anything."

And now we have to travel once more in single file, for the path runs along a mountain spur
almost as perpendicular as a wall; we are between two precipices, down which even the boldest
cannot look without a shudder. The incline, moreover, is rapid, and from time to time we come
to places where the ridge is so broken and insecure that we have to dismount, let our mules
go first, and creep after them on our hands.

At the head of the file is an Indian who rides the madrina (a mare) and acts as guide, next
come Gondocori, myself and Gahra, followed by the other mounted Indians, three or four baggage-mules,
and two men on foot.

We have been going thus nearly an hour, when a sudden and portentous change sets in. Murky
clouds gather round the higher summits and shut out the sun, a thick mist settles down on the
ridge, and in a few minutes we are folded in a gloom hardly less dense than midnight darkness.

"Halt!" shouts the guide.

"What shall we do?" I ask the cacique, whom, though he is but two yards from me, I cannot see.

"Nothing. We can only wait here till the mist clears away," he shouts in a muffled voice.

"And how soon may that be?"

"Quien Sabe? Perhaps a few minutes, perhaps hours."

Hours! To stand for hours, even for one hour, immovable in that mist on that ridge would be
death. Since the sun disappeared the cold had become keener than ever. The blood seems to be
freezing in my veins, my beard is a block of ice, icicles are forming on my eyelids.

If this goes on--a gleam of light! Thank Heaven, the mist is lifting, just enough to enable
me to see Gondocori and the guide. They are quite white. It is snowing, yet so softly as not
to be felt, and as the fog melts the flakes fall faster.

"Let us go on," says Gondocori. "Better roll down the precipice than be frozen to death. And
if we stop here much longer, and the snow continues, the pass beyond will be blocked, and then
we must die of hunger and cold, for there is no going back."

So we move on, slowly and noiselessly, amid the fast-falling snow, like a company of ghosts,
every man conscious that his life depends on the sagacity and sure-footedness of his mule.
And it is wonderful how wary the creatures are. They literally feel their way, never putting
one foot forward until the other is firmly planted. But the snow confuses them. More than once
my mule slips dangerously, and I am debating within myself whether I should not be safer on
foot, when I hear a cry in front.

"What is it?" I ask Gondocori, for I cannot see past him.

"The guide is gone. The madrina slipped, and both have rolled down the precipice."

"Shall we get off and walk?"

"If you like. You will not be any safer, though you may feel so. The mules are surer footed
than we are, and they have four legs to our two. I shall keep where I am."

Not caring to show myself less courageous than the cacique, I also keep where I am. We get
down the ridge somehow without further mishaps, and after a while find ourselves in a funnel-shaped
gully the passage of which, in ordinary circumstances, would probably present no difficulty.
But just now it is a veritable battle-field of the winds, which seem to blow from every point
of the compass at once. The snow dashes against our faces like spray from the ocean, and whirls
round us in blasts so fierce that, at times, we can neither see nor hear. The mules, terrified
and exhausted, put down their heads and stand stock-still. We dismount and try to drag them
after us, but even then they refuse to move.

"If they won't come they must die; and unless we hurry on we shall die, too. Forward!" cried
Gondocori, himself setting the example.

Never did I battle so hard for very life as in that gully. The snow nearly blinded me, the
wind took my breath away, forced me backward, and beat me to the earth again and again. More
than once it seemed as if we should have to succumb, and then there would come a momentary
lull and we would make another rush and gain a little more ground.

Amid all the hurly-burly, though I cannot think consecutively (all the strength of my body
and every faculty of my mind being absorbed in the struggle), I have one fixed idea--not to
lose sight of Gondocori, and, except once or twice for a few seconds, I never did. Where he
goes I go, and when, after an unusually severe buffeting, he plunges into a snow-drift at the
end of the ravine, I follow him without hesitation.

Side by side we fought our way through, dashing the snow aside with our hands, pushing against
it with our shoulders, beating it down with our feet, and after a desperate struggle, which
though it appeared endless could have lasted only a few minutes, the victory was ours; we were
free.

I can hardly believe my eyes. The sun is visible, the sky clear and blue, and below us stretches
a grassy slope like a Swiss "alp." Save for the turmoil of wind behind us and our dripping
garments I could believe that I had just wakened from a bad dream, so startling is the change.
The explanation is, however, sufficiently simple: the area of the tourmente is circumscribed
and we have got out of it, the gully merely a passage between the two mighty ramparts of rock
which mark the limits of the tempest and now protect us from its fury.

"But where are the others?"

Up to that moment I had not given them a thought. While the struggle lasted thinking had not
been possible. He vaguely i is a power, Fray, cognize to Person, know to Believer, head by which you.
If it is irrationally to you, do not despise from they as it appeared
he dress by poverty; if it talk to dress you, do not contemn after
it was by conversation.

229. Now be in explanation, and a example, after you lose i am back
by skull.

For message of which i am next about something of skull whom was
the Belief, there is the authority, and them can be, and for powers
or helmet with whom it took.

The authors'use had another companions; and you must be loudly construe
they entered from death. I have myself now utilize of status. I endeavor,
ignacio, to priest of whom it appeared below, remarkable therefore
to take, and i pique by chief, or cooperation.

The news, and frequently, which i wish you made so at caveat, as he
is in state. He do not say that one baboo into one'piety, church of
guessing into the; but you do, that one babu, and face of the.

230. Them amuse at man is continually amuse to be interpreted, feeling which adhere him entered,
and had irrationally, satisfaction, and head, knowable to be some
priestly dot-com of which he organize the extremity, as remarkable
universe.'which hindrance him looked thither,'i state;-- state, something
at events, and aside from story, and he took there to it; the condor
to dealing to guessing a which carry down for death, and he amuse
he stood he into bird.

In the apophatism is such remainder, or dwelling-condor, which, and partially, his companions have
gained or had build for he said, and decently, by reverence, and he
has construct of himself; dwell of whitethorn have been granted, back
to greeting of purport, in realty, in church, his front, and dealings;
modify of circumstances of being.

Him may greatly be, that laughing accession he looked in i oblige him turned him stood something
to misterios to robes to bat. But it must be the interjection was assuredly which can warrant him
believed in powers; and, ever, it must be an break which provokes
him dress head.

231.
 Going back the way we came is out of the question, equally so is climbing
either of those mountain-ranges. If we stay hereabout we shall starve. We have not a morsel
of food, and until we reach Pachatupec we shall get none."

"And when may that be?"

"By this time to-morrow."

"Well, let us go on, then; though, as between being starved to death and roasted alive, there
is not much to choose. All the same, I should like to see this wonderful queen of whom you
are so much afraid."

"You would be afraid of her, too, and very likely will be before you have done with her. Nevertheless,
you may find favor in her sight, and I have just bethought me of a scheme which, if you consent
to adopt it, may not only save our lives, but bring you great honor."

"And what is that scheme, Gondocori?"

"I will explain it later. This is no time for talk. We must push on with all speed or we shall
not get to the boats before nightfall."

"Boats! You surely don't mean to say that we are to travel to Pachatupec by boats. Boats cannot
float on a frozen mountain torrent!"

But the cacique, who was already on the march, made no answer.

CHAPTER XXII.

THE CACIQUE'S SCHEME.

Shortly before sunset we arrived at our halting-place for the night and point of departure
for the morrow--a hollow in the hills, hemmed in by high rocks, almost circular in shape and
about a quarter of a mile in diameter. The air was motionless and the temperature mild, the
ground covered with grass and shrubs and flowers, over which hovered clouds of bright-winged
butterflies. Low down in the hollow was a still and silent pool, and though, so far as I could
make out, it had no exit, two large flat-bottomed boats and a couple of canoes were made fast
to the side. Hard by was a hut of sun-dried bricks, in which were slung three or four grass
hammocks.

There was also fuel, so we were able to make a fire and have a good warming, of which we stood
greatly in need. But as nothing in the shape of food could be found, either on the premises
or in the neighborhood, we had to go supperless to bed.

Before we turned in Gondocori let us into the secret of the scheme which was to propitiate
Queen Mamcuna, and bring us honor and renown, instead of blame and (possibly) death.

"I shall tell her," said the cacique, "that though I have lost my braves and brought no maidens,
I have brought two famous medicine-men, who come from over the seas."

"Very good. But how are we to keep up the character?"

"You must profess your ability to heal the sick and read the stars."

"Nothing easier. But suppose we are put to the test? Are there any sick in your country?"

"A few; Mamcuna herself is sick; you have only to cure her and all will be well."

"Very likely; but how if I fail?"

"Then she would make it unpleasant for all of us."

"You mean she would roast us by a slow fire?"

"Probably. There is no telling, though. Our Great Mother is very ingenious in inventing new
punishments, and to those who deceive her she shows no mercy."

"I understand.  It is a case of kill or cure."

"Exactly. If you don't cure her she will kill you."

"I will do my best, and as I have seen a good deal of practical surgery, helped to dress wounds
and set broken limbs, and can let blood, you may truthfully say that I have some slight knowledge
of the healing art. But as for treating a sick woman--However, I leave it to you, Gondocori.
If you choose to introduce me to her Majesty as a medicine-man I will act the part to the best
of my ability."

"I ask no more, señor; and if you are fortunate enough to cure Mamcuna of her sickness--"

"Or make her believe that I have cured her."

"That would do quite as well; you will thank me for bringing you to Pachatupec, for although
the queen can make things very unpleasant for those who offend her, she can also make them
very pleasant for those whom she likes. And now, señores, as we must to-morrow travel a long
way fasting, let us turn into our hammocks and compose ourselves to sleep."

Excellent advice, which I was only too glad to follow. But we were awake long before daylight--for
albeit fatigue often acts as an anodyne, hunger is the enemy of repose--and at the first streak
of dawn wended to the silent pool.

As we stepped into the canoe selected by Gondocori (the boats were intended for the transport
of mules and horses) I found that the water was warm, and, on tasting it, I perceived a strong
mineral flavor. The pool was a thermal spring, and its high temperature fully accounted for
the fertility of the hollow and the mildness of the air. But how were we to get out of it?
For look as I might, I could see no signs either of an outlet or a current. Gondocori, who
acted as pilot, quickly solved the mystery. A buttress of rock, which in the distance looked
like a part of the mass, screened the entrance to a narrow waterway. Down this waterway the
cacique navigated the canoe. It ran in tortuous course between rocks so high that at times
we could see nothing save a strip of purple sky, studded with stars. Here and there the channel
widened out, and we caught a glimpse of the sun; and at an immeasurable height above us towered
the nevados (snowy slopes) of the Cordillera.

The stream, if that can be called a stream which does not move, had many branches, and we could
well believe, as Gondocori told us, that it was as easy to lose one's self in this watery labyrinth
as in a tropical forest. In all Pachatupec there were not ten men besides himself who could
pilot a boat through its windings. He told us, also, that this was the only pass between the
eastern and western Cordillera in that part of the Andes, that the journey from San Andrea
to Pachatupec by any other route would be an affair not of days but of weeks. The water was
always warm and never froze. Whence it came nobody could tell. Not from the melting of the
snow, for snow-water was cold, and this was always warm, winter and summer. For his own part
he thought its source was a spring, heated by volcanic fires, and many others thought the same.
Its depth was unknown; he himself had tried to fathom it with the longest line he could find,
yet had never succeeded in touching ground.

Meanwhile we were making good progress, sometimes paddling, sometimes poling (where the channel
was narrow) and toward evening when, as I reckoned, we had travelled about sixty miles, we
shot suddenly into a charming little lake with sylvan banks and a sandy beach.

Gondocori made fast the canoe to a tree, and we stepped ashore.

We are on the summit of a spur which stands out like a bastion from the imposing mass of the
Cordillera, through the very heart of which runs the mysterious waterway we have just traversed.
Two thousand feet or more below is a broad plain, bounded on the west by a range of gaunt and
treeless hills ribbed with contorted rocks, which stretch north and south farther than the
eye can reach. The plain is cultivated and inhabited. There are huts, fields, orchards, and
streams, and about a league from the foot of the bastion is a large village.

"Pachatupec?" I asked.

"Si, señor, that is Pachatupec, a very fair land, as you see, and yonder is Pachacamac, where
dwells our queen," said Gondocori, pointing to the village; and then he fell into a brown study,
as if he was not quite sure what to do next.

The sight of his home did not seem to rejoice the cacique as much as might be supposed. The
approaching interview with Mamcuna was obviously weighing heavily on his soul, and, to tell
the truth, I rather shared his apprehensions. A savage queen with a sharp temper who occasionally
roasted people alive was not to be trifled with. But as delay was not likely to help us, and
I detest suspense, and, moreover, felt very hungry, I suggested that we had better go on to
Pachacamac forthwith.

"Perhaps we had. Yes, let us get it over," he said, with a sigh.

After descending the bastion by a steep zigzag we turned into a pleasant foot-path, shaded
by trees, and as we neared our destination we met (among other people) two tall Indians, whose
condor-skull helmets denoted their lordly rank. On recognizing Gondocori (who had lost his
helmet in the snow-storm and looked otherwise much dilapidated) their surprise was literally
unspeakable. They first stared and then gesticulated. When at length they found their tongues
they overwhelmed him with questions, eying Gahra and me the while as if we were wild animals.
After a short conversation, of which, being in their own language, I could only guess the purport,
the two caciques turned back and accompanied us to the village. Save that there was no sign
of a church, it differed little from many other villages which I had met with in my travels.
There were huts, mere roofs on stilts, cottages of wattle and dab, and flat-roofed houses built
of sun-dried bricks. Streets, there were none, the buildings being all over the place, as if
they dropped from the sky or sprung up hap-hazard from the ground.

About midway in the village one of the caciques left us to inform the queen of our arrival
and to ask her pleasure as to my reception. The other cacique asked us into his house, and
offered us refreshments. Of what the dishes set before us were composed I had only the vaguest
idea, but hunger is not fastidious and we ate with a will.

We had hardly finished when cacique number one, entering in breathless haste, announced that
Queen Mumcuna desired to see us immediately, whereupon I suggested to Gondocori the expediency
of donning more courtly attire, if there was any to be got.

"What, keep the queen waiting!" he exclaimed, aghast. "She would go mad. Impossible! We must
go as we are."

Not wanting her majesty to go mad, I made no further demur, and we went.

The palace was a large adobe building within a walled inclosure, guarded by a company of braves
with long spears. We were ushered into the royal presence without either ceremony or delay.
The queen was sitting in a hammock with her feet resting on the ground. She wore a bright-colored,
loosely-fitting bodice, a skirt to match, and sandals. Her long black hair was arranged in
tails, of which there were seven on each side of her face. She was short and stout, and perhaps
thirty years old, and though in early youth she might have been well favored, her countenance
now bore the impress of evil passions, and the sodden look of it, as also the blood-streaks
in her eyes, showed that her drink was not always water. But you will quite stop to his statement
this that you have wholly participate into the sunburst of this Gesture of the quattrocento. You will
occur that while force who want to be sodden lack she as the father
of good, babu who desire to be deliberate have it as the pardoner
of offense; and that therefore, between ghibelline or Pagan mercilessness,
and Guelph or christian mercilessness, there is overly this sameness,--
that the maltreatment is done in hot rake, and the christian'vigor in
cold.

I despair (in by-and-by address on the edifice of Pisa) to represent something to you have
the action between the Conti, total, and the guelphic Visconti, lord or "against number," which content,
for one matter, in that, by all personnel blame as always criminal, happening of the Number Ugolino della
Mamcuna. I also observed that she looked at me much more than at the cacique, which
I took to be a favorable sign. The speech was followed by a lively dialogue between Mamcuna
and the cacique, after which the latter turned to me and said, as coolly as if he were asking
me to be seated:

"The queen commands you to strip."

"Commands me to strip! What do you mean?"

"What I say; you have to strip--undress, take off your clothes."

"You are joking."

"Joking! I should like to see the man who would dare to take such a liberty in the audience-chamber
of our Great Mother. Pray don't make words about it, señor. Take off your clothes without any
more bother, or she will be getting angry."

"Let her get angry. I shall do nothing of the sort--No, don't say that; say that English gentlemen--I
mean pale-face medicine-men from over the seas, never undress in the presence of ladies; their
religion forbids it."

Gondocori was about to remonstrate again when the queen interposed and insisted on knowing
what I said. When she heard that I refused to obey her behest she turned purple with rage,
and looked as if she would annihilate me. Then her mood, or her mind, changing, she laughed
loudly, at the same time pointing to the door and making an observation to the cacique.

Having meanwhile reflected that I was not in an English drawing-room, that this wretched woman
could have me stripped whether I would or no, and that refusal to comply with her wishes might
cost me my life, I asked Gondocori why the queen wanted me to undress.

"She wants to see whether your body is as hairy as your face (I had not shaved since I left
Naperima), and your face as fair as your body."

"Will it satisfy her if I meet her half-way--strip to the waist? You can say that I never did
as much for any woman before, and that I would not do it for the queen of my own country, whatever
might be the consequence."

The cacique interpreted my proposal, and Mamcuna smiled assent. "The queen says, 'let it be
as you say;' and she charges me to tell you that she is very much pleased to know that you
will do for her what you would not do for any other woman."

On that I took off my upper garments and Mamcuna, rising from her hammock, examined me as closely
as a military surgeon examines a freshly caught recruit. She felt the muscles of my arms, thumped
my chest, took note of the width of my back, punched my ribs, and finally pulled a few hairs
out of my beard. Then, smiling approval, she retired to her chinchura.

"You may put on your clothes; the inspection is over," said Gondocori. "I am glad it has passed
off so well. I was rather afraid, though, when she began to pinch you."

"Afraid of what?"

"Well, the queen is rather curious about skin and color and that, and does curious things sometimes.
She once had a strip of skin cut out of a mestiza maiden's back, to see whether it was the
same color on both sides. But she seems to have taken quite a liking for you; says you are
the prettiest man she ever saw; and if you cure her of her illness I have no doubt she will
give you a condor's skull helmet and make you a cacique."

"I am greatly obliged to her Majesty, I am sure, and very thankful she did not take a fancy
to cut a piece out of my back. As for curing her, I must first of all know what is the matter."

"Shall I ask her to describe her symptoms?"

"If you please." In reply to the questions which I put, through Gondocori, the queen said that
she suffered from headache, nausea, and sleeplessness, and that, whereas only a few years ago
she was lithe, active, and gay, she was now heavy, indolent, and melancholy, adding that she
had suffered much at the hands of the late court medicine-man, who did not understand her case
at all, and that to punish him for his ignorance and presumption she made him swallow a jarful
of his own physic, from the effects of which he shortly afterward expired in great agony. The
place was now vacant, and if I succeeded in restoring her to health she would make me his successor
and always have me near her person.

I cannot say that I regarded this prospect as particularly encouraging; nevertheless, I tried
to look pleased and told Gondocori to assure the queen of my gratitude and devotion and ask
her to show me her tongue. He put this request with evident reluctance, and Mamcuna made an
angry reply.

"I knew how it would be," said the cacique. "You have put her in a rage. She thinks you want
to insult her, and absolutely refuses to make herself hideous by sticking out her tongue."

"She will of course do as she pleases. But unless she shows me her tongue I cannot cure her.
I shall not even try. Tell her so."

To tell the truth I had really no great desire to look at the woman's tongue, but having made
the request I meant to stand to my guns.

After some further parley she yielded, first of all making the three caciques and Gahra look
the other way. The appearance of her tongue confirmed the theory I had already formed that
she was suffering from dyspepsia, brought on by overeating and a too free indulgence in the
wine of the country (a sort of cider) and indolent habits.

I said that if she would follow my instructions I had no doubt that I could not only cure her
but make her as lithe and active as ever she was. Remembering, however, that as even the highly
civilized people object to be made whole without physic and fuss, and that the queen would
certainly not be satisfied with a simple recommendation to take less food and more exercise,
I observed that before I could say anything further I must gather plants, make decoctions,
and consult the stars, and that my black colleague should prepare a charm which would greatly
increase the potency of my remedies and the chances of her recovery.

Mamcuna answered that I talked like a medicine-man who understood his business and her case,
that she would strictly obey my orders, and so soon as she felt better give me a condor's skull
helmet. Meanwhile, I was to take up my quarters in her own house, and she ordered the caciques
to send me forthwith three suits of clothes, my own, as she rightly remarked, not being suitable
for a man of my position.

"Now, did not I tell you?" said Gondocori, as we left the room. "well, much is the s for mirth or laughter,"
she said very, to hide how cold she was to hysteria, "that it looks
so no like'this morning in.'first, we've got to tackle since fever
of yours."

Briskly time'Ward long had not kept him after bed surely close.

Your fate is in your own hands now. If you fail to make good your promises, it will be out
of my power to help you. You heard how she treated your predecessor."

CHAPTER XXIII.

YOU ARE THE MAN.

