Wherefore, sinner, consider whoever thou art that art destitute of this fear of God, thou art
void of all other graces; for this fear, as also I have showed, floweth from the whole stock
of grace where it is. There is not one of the graces of the Spirit, but this fear is in the
bowels of it; yea, as I may say, this fear is the flower and beauty of every grace; neither
is there anything, let it look as much like grace as it will, that will be counted so indeed,
if the fruit thereof be not this fear of God; wherefore, I say again, consider well of this
matter, for as thou shalt be found with reference to this grace, so shall thy judgment be.
I have but briefly treated of this grace, yet have endeavoured, with words as fit as I could,
to display it in its colours before thy face, first by showing you what this fear of God is,
then what it flows from, as also what doth flow from it; to which, as was said before, I have
added several privileges that are annexed to this fear, that by all, if it may be, thou mayest
see it if thou hast it, and thyself without it if thou hast it not. Wherefore I refer thee
thither again for information in this thing; or if thou art loath to give the book a second
reading, but wilt go on to the end now thou art gotten hither; then

Second and particularly, I conclude with these several propositions concerning those that fear
not God.

1. That man that is proud, and of a high and lofty mind, fears not God. This is plain from
the exhortation, "Be not high-minded, but fear" (Rom 11:20). Here you see that a high mind
and the fear of God are set in direct opposition the one to the other; and there is in them,
closely concluded by the apostle, that where indeed the one is, there cannot be the other;
where there is a high mind, there is not the fear of God; and where there is the fear of God,
the mind is not high but lowly. Can a man at the same time be a proud man, and fear God too?
Why, then, is it said God beholdeth every one that is proud, and abases him? and again, He
beholds the proud afar off? He therefore that is proud of his person, of his riches, of his
office, of his parts, and the like, feareth not God. It is also manifest further, for God resisteth
the proud, which he would not do, if he feared him, but in that he sets him at such a distance
from him, in that he testifies that he will abase him and resist him, it is evident that he
is not the man that hath this grace of fear; for that man, as I have showed you, is the man
of God's delight, the object of his pleasure (Psa 138:6; James 4:6; 1 Peter 5:5; Mal 4:1).

2. The covetous man feareth not God. This also is plain from the Word, because it setteth covetousness
and the fear of God in direct opposition. Men that fear God are said to hate covetousness (Exo
18:21). Besides, the covetous man is called an idolater, and is said to have no part in the
kingdom of Christ and of God. And again, "The wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth
the covetous, whom the Lord abhorreth" (Eze 33:31; Eph 5:5; Psa 10:3). Hearken to this, you
that hunt the world to take it, you that care not how you get, so you get the world. Also you
that make even religion your stalking-horse to get the world, you fear not God. And what will
you do whose hearts go after your covetousness? you who are led by covetousness up and down,
as it were by the nose; sometimes to swear, to lie, to cozen, and cheat and defraud, when you
can get the advantage to do it. You are far, very far, from the fear of God.

