"In olden days husbands loved. Sho God did tend to wife and took care of them and they had
to stay home cause it wuz always a new baby. I tell you, Miss Sue, man ought not never had
you to find history 'cause you gwine tell it all. As I said, we loved. Is de young folks marrying
fur love? Dey don't stay together long enough to warm hands. We went to church together and
praised God; led prayer meetings and, yes siree, would feel good.

"Now you all done start opening theatres on Sunday. Miss Sue, all dat stuff you putting down
will sure make the man laugh."

450004

Interview of Mrs. Marriah Hines E. Avenue R.F.D. 1. Oakwood Norfolk, Virginia By--David Hoggard
March 26, 1937

Mrs. Marriah Hines--Born July 4, 1835, South Hampton County Virginia, a slave on James Pressmans
plantation. Now residing on E. Avenue, Oakwood, Norfolk, Virginia R.F.D. 1.

[HW: Insert last paragraph] [TR: appropriate paragraph inserted here] Marriah is about four
feet and a half tall and weighs about one hundred pounds. She has a pretty head of white hair
covering her round brown face. Her memory of her mother and father is very vague, due to their
death when she was young. She is able to dress herself practically without help, and to get
about from place to place alone, enjoying talking about religion and [HW: what she knows about]
the world [HW: of] today.

Even though the general course of slavery was cruel, Marriah Hines was fortunate enough, not
to have to endure its severities. James Pressman was one of the few slave masters that looked
upon the slave with a certain degree of compassion, to whom Marriah was fortunate, to be owned
by. Although slavery in its self was cruel; but the fact that Mr. Pressman was generous and
kind to the slaves that he owned, because of necessity in the process of his farming, should
not be overlooked. It is quite true that slave masters near him did not grant their slaves
such priviliges as he did. I do not wish to impress the idea that Mr. Pressman did not approve
of slavery, but only his general attitude toward his slaves was different from the majority
of the slaves holders. From the following story of Marriah's life in slavery, it may be clearly
seen that her master was an exception.

[HW struck out: Upon interviewing her, she relates her life story as follows--]

"I lived with good people, my white folks treated us good. There was plenty of 'em that didn't
fare as we did. Some of the poor folks almost starved to death. Why the way their masters treated
them was scandalous, treated them like cats and dogs. We always had plenty of food, never knowed
what it was to want food bad enough to have to steal it like a whole lot of 'em. Master would
always give us plenty when he give us our rations. Of course we slaves were given food and
clothing and just enough to keep us goin good. Why master would buy cloth by the loads and
heaps, shoes by the big box full; den he'd call us to the house and give each on 'us our share.
Plenty to keep us comfortable, course it warn't silk nor satin, no ways the best there was,
but 'twas plenty good 'nough for us, and we was plenty glad to git it. When we would look and
see how the slaves on the 'jining farm was fareing, 'twould almost make us shed tears. It made
us feel like we was gitting 'long most fine. Dat's why we loved 'spected master; 'course he
was so good to us.

"'Cause master was good and kind to us, some of the other white folks used to call him 'nigger
lover.' He didn't pay dat no mind though. He was a true Christian man, and I mean he sho' lived
up to it. He never did force any of us to go to church, if we didn't want to, dat was left
to us to 'cide. If you wanted to you could, if you didn't you didn't have to, but he'd always
tell us, you ought to go.

"Not only was master good but his whole family was too. When the weather was good we worked
in the fields and on other little odd jobs that was needed done. We slaves would eat our breakfast,
and go to the fields, dare wont no hurry-scurry. Lots o'times when we got in the fields the
other slaves had been in the field a long time. Dar was times though we had to git to it early,
too, 'pecially if it had been rainy weather and the work had been held up for a day or so.
Master didn't make us work a 'tall in bad weather neither when it got real cold. The men might
have to git in fire wood or sumpin' of that sort but no all day work in the cold--just little
odd jobs. We didn't even have to work on Sundays not even in the house. The master and the
preacher both said dat was the Lord's day and you won't spose to work on that day. So we didn't.
We'd cook the white folks victuals on Saturday and lots o'times dey eat cold victuals on Sundays.
Master would sometimes ask the preacher home to dinner. 'You plenty welcome to go home with
me for dinner, but you'll have to eat cold victuals 'cause there aint no cooking on Sundays
at my house.' Lots of times we slaves would take turns on helping 'em serve Sunday meals just
'cause we liked them so much. We hated to see Missie fumbling 'round in the kitchen all out
'a'her place. We didn't have to do it, we just did it on our own free will. Master sometimes
gives us a little money for it too, which made it all the better. Master and Missus was so
good to us we didn't mind working a little on Sundays, in the house. Master had prayer with
the whole family every night, prayed for us slaves too. Any of the slaves that wanted to jine
him could. Or if they wanted to pray by dem selves they could. Sundays we went to church and
stayed the biggest portion of the day. No body had to rush home. On our plantation we had general
prayer meeting every Wednesday night at church. 'Cause some of the masters didn't like the
way we slaves carried on we would turn pots down, and tubs to keep the sound from going out.
Den we would have a good time, shouting singing and praying just like we pleased. The paddarollers
didn't pay us much 'tention coused they knew how master let us do. Dey would say nasty things
'bout master 'cause he let us do like we did.

"We had plenty time to ourselves. Most of the time we spent singing and praying 'cause master
was sich a good Christian and most of us had 'fessed religion. Evenings we would spin on the
old spinning wheel, quilt make clothes, talk, tell jokes, and a few had learned to weave a
little bit from Missus. We would have candy pulls, from cooked molasses, and sing in the moonlight
by the tune of an old banjo picker. Chillen was mostly seen, not heard, different from youngens
of today talking backward and foward cross their mammies and pappies. Chillen dat did dat den
would git de breath slapped out on 'em. Your mammies didn't have to do it either; any old person
would, and send you home to git another lickin'. We slaves had two hours off for dinner, when
we could go home and eat before we finished work 'bout sun down. We aint had no colored overseers
to whip us nor no white ones. We just went 'long so and did what we had to, wid out no body
watching over us. Every body was just plum crazy 'bout master. Doing the day you could see
him strutting down the field like a big turkey gobbler to see how the work was going on. Always
had a smile and a joke wid you. He allu's tell us we was doing fine, even sometimes when we
want. We'd always catch up our work, so he wouldn't have to fuss. We loved Misses and the chillen
so much we wouldn't even let 'em eat hardly. Missus didn't have to do nothing, hardly. Dare
was always some of us round the house.

"'Bout a year fore we heard 'bout freedom, master took sick and the slaves wouldn't'er looked
sadder if one of their own youngens had been sick. Dey 'spected him to die, and he kept calling
for some cabbage. Misses finally let me cook him some cabbage, and let him have some 'pot licker'
(the water the cabbage was cooked in). He didn't die den but a few years later he did die.
Dat was the first and the last time any cooking ever was done in that house on Sunday.

"When master told us we was free it didn't take much 'fect on us. He told us we could go where
we pleased and come when we pleased that we didn't have to work for him any more 'less we wanted
to. Most of us slaves stayed right there and raised our own crops. Master helped us much as
he could. Some of us he gave a cow or a mule or anything he could spare to help us. Some of
us worked on the same plantation and bought our own little farms and little log cabins, and
lived right there till master dies and the family moved away. Some of us lived there right
on. Master married me to one of the best colored men in the world, Benjamin F. Hines. I had
five chullun by him, four girls and one boy, two of the girls and the boy are dead. Dey died
'bout 1932 or 33. I stay with one awhile, den I go and stay awhile wid the other one.

"We didn't have no public schools in dem days 'n time. What little learning you got it from
the white chillen."

450012

[HW: Terms and phrasing to be checked and verified in further interviews.]

THE STORY OF "UNCLE" MOBLE HOPSON. (pronounced Mobile)

Interview Saturday, November 28th at his home on the Poquoson River. (Recorded from memory
within 1 hour after "being talked to by him.")

Uncle Moble hobbles unsteadily from his little shade beside the outhouse into the warm kitchen,
leaning heavily on the arm of his niece. He looks up on hearing my voice, and extends a gnarled
and tobacco-stained hand. He sinks fumblingly into a chair. It is then that I see that Uncle
Moble is blind.

"No, don't mind effen yuh ast me questions. Try tuh answer 'em, I will, best ways I kin. Don't
mind et all, effen yuh tell me whut yuh want to know. Born'd in fifty-two, I was, yessuh, right
here over theer wheer dat grade big elum tree usta be. Mammy was uh Injun an' muh pappy was
uh white man, least-ways he warn't no slave even effen he was sorta dark-skinned.

"Ole pappy tole me 'bout how cum the whites an' the blacks an' the Injuns get all mixed up.
Way back 'long in dere it war, he [SP: be] nevuh tell me jes' what year, dey was a tribe uh
Injuns livin 'long dis ribber. Dey was kin to de Kink-ko-tans, but dey wasn't de same. Dey
had ober on the James de Kink-ko-tans an' dey had dis tribe ober here.

"Well, de white man come. Not fum ober dere. De white man cum cross de Potomac, an' [HW: den
he] cross de York ribber, an' den he cum on cross de Poquoson ribber into dis place. My pappy
tell me jes' how cum dey cross all uh dose ribbers. He ain't see it, yuh unnerstand, but he
hear tell how et happen.

"Dis whut de white man do. He pick hisself a tall ellum long side de ribber an' he clumb to
de top an' he mark out on de trunk wid he ax uh section 'long 'bout, oh, 'long 'bout thirty-fo'ty
feet. Den he cut de top off an' den he cut de bottom off so de thick trunk fall right on de
edge uh de ribber. An' den he hollar out dat ellum log tell he make hisself uh bout an' he
skin off de bark so et don't ketch in de weeds. Den he make hisse'f uh pattle an' dey all makes
pattles an' dey floats dat boat an' pattles cross to de udder side.

"Well, dey cross de Potomac an' dey has tuh fight de Injuns an' dey cross de York an' fit some
more tell dey kilt all de Injuns or run 'em way. When dey cross de Poquoson dey fine de Injuns
ain't aimin' tuh fight but dey kilt de men an' tek de Injun women fo' dey wives. Coursen dey
warn't no marryin' dem at dat time.

"Well dat's how cum my people started. Ah hear tell on how dey hafta fight de Injuns now an
den, an' den de Britishers come an' dey fit de British.

