Issachar was oyster-man, sailor, and sutler in one. He advanced money to build pungy boats,
knit nets, and make huts. He kept a trading place, packed fish, and dealt with the Eastern
port cities by a schooner whose crew he shipped himself and sometimes commanded her. He was
a wrecker, too, prompt and enterprising; passed middle life, but full of vitality; bold and
cunning in equal degree; and he had been, it was guessed, a slaver, and some said a pirate.
He was called by the negroes the King of Chincoteague. His schooner was named The Eli.

Chincoteague is the principal inhabited island along the one hundred miles of coast between
the capes of the Delaware and of the Chesapeake--a coast of low bars, divided into long and
slender islands by a dozen inlets, which, almost filled with sand, permit only light-draught
vessels to enter; and it is destruction to any ship to go ashore on that coast, where five
successive lighthouses warn the commerce of the Atlantic off, but are unable to intimidate
the storms which sweep the low shores and almost threaten to leap over the peninsula and submerge
it. Chincoteague lies like a tongue between two inlets, and partly protrudes into the sea,
but is also sheltered in part by the bar of Assateague, whose light has flamed for years. Chincoteague
is about ten miles long, and behind it an inland bay stretches continuously, under various
names, for thirty miles, protected from the ocean, and scarcely flavored with its salt, except
near the outlet at Chincoteague, where the oysters lie in the brackish sluices, and all sorts
of fish, from shrimps to sharks, hover around the oyster beds. In the green depths they can
be seen, and there the crab darts sidewise, like a shooting star. In the sandy beach grows
the mamano, or snail-clam, putting his head from his shell at high tide to suck nutrition from
the mysterious food of the sea, and giving back such chowder to man as makes the eater feel
his stomach to possess a nobility above the pleasures of the brain. The bay of Chincoteague
is five or six miles wide, and the nearest hamlet is in Virginia, as is Chincoteague island
also. The hamlet takes the name of Horntown, and not far from there is the old court-house
seat of Snow Hill, in Maryland. Every soul on Chincoteague was native there or thereabout,
except Issachar the Jew.

He had appeared amongst them after a sudden storm, the solitary survivor of a wreck that had
partly drifted ashore, and, as he said, gone down with all his fortune. The mild air and easy
livelihood of the spot pleased the Jew, after his first despair, and he set about making another
fortune. Capable, solitary and active, he soon outstripped all the people of the islands, and
neither beloved nor unbeloved, lived grimly, as chance ordained, and until now, had never shown
more than business benevolence. It was a surprising thing to the people of Chincoteague, when
the news went round that he had been over to court at Drummond-town and given his recognizance
to bring up the orphan boy--whom he named Abraham Purnell--so that the county should not be
at the expense of him, and he also brought out from New York, on the Eli's next trip, a Hebrew
woman to be the boy's matron. Suckled at a negro's breast, Abraham grew to a vigorous youth,
resembling his guardian's race and his mother's as well, in the curling nature of his hair
and the brightness of his eyes. The Old Testament Scriptures alone were taught him, and Issachar
himself joined the family circle at daily prayer to encourage the faith of Israel in the stranger.
The finest of the lean, tough ponies, bred only on Chincoteague, and renowned throughout the
peninsula for their endurance, was bought for the boy, as he grew older. He was made Issachar's
companion, and, in course of time, passed in fireside talk for a Jew, like his protector.

Only once the superior comfort and clothing of Issachar's protégé provoked the remark from
one of a group of men that Abraham was "only a stuck-up nigger, anyway;" and then, like a maniac,
Old Issachar dashed from his store with a boat-hook and struck down the offender like a dead man.

But the boy was of such docile and beautiful nature that he excited no general antagonism.
He was four removals from pure African blood, and as his mother had been a freed girl, he was
a citizen, or might be if he pleased. The certain heir of Issachar's possessions, the only
thing except gold that Issachar loved, and of a parentage which linked misfortune with piety,
his mysterious nativity gave him with the negroes a sacred character. They believed that he
would become their king and priest and lead them out of bondage to a promised land; and this
involuntary homage so pleased old Issachar that his heart inclined toward the black race above
the Christian whites around him. If an aged negro fell sick, the Jew sent, by his ward, medicine
and food. If a very poor negro was buried, the Jew contributed to the expenses. He gave the
first counsel of worldly wisdom to the negro freedmen, and gave them faithful interest on their
savings. One slave that he possessed he set free, saying:

"By Jacob's staff! I will not hold as cattle the blood people of my son!"

His enlarged benevolence made no difference in his business. It grew to the widest limits of
that humble society, and by the accident of a younger life coming forward to bear his honor
up, Issachar grew into sympathy with the social life of all the lower peninsula. If they wanted
money for public enterprise on the mainland, the Jew of Chincoteague was first to be thought
of. His credit, Masonic in its reach, extended to his compatriots in distant cities, and the
politicians crossed the Sound to bring him into alliance with their parties. To personal flattery
he was obtuse, except when it reached his ward, and then a melting mood came over him. At every
Christmas he led himself the eloquent Oriental prayer, young Abraham responding with even a
richer imagery, for his mind was alert, his schooling had been private and unintermittent,
and his father's enthusiasm and his mother's docility made him a poet and a son together.

"My son," said the Jew, as Abraham's fifteenth Christmas approached, "the time is at hand when
we must part for years. I am growing old, and the loss of thee, O my love! is harder than thou
canst know. The sands of life are running out with me, as from an hour-glass. With thee the
heavens are rosy and the world is new. Thou beautiful Samuel, Jehovah's selected one! Wilt
thou remember me when far away?"

"Father," answered Abraham, "what besides thee can I love? Every morning, and at noon, and
again at night, I will face from the East to pray toward thee; for God will not listen unless
I am grateful to my father."

"Thou art going to Amsterdam," said Issachar. "There, amongst the noblest Jews of Europe, the
descendants of the Jewish Portuguese, the Hebrew tongue in its purity, the law of Moses in
its majesty, our lore in its plenitude, thou wilt learn. I look to thee, adopted child of Israel!
to give the promise of thy youth to the study of our grand old religion, and, like the infant
Moses, discovered amongst these bulrushes of Chincoteague, to be the reviver of our faith,
the statesman of our sect. Yea! the rebuilder of our Zion. It has been ordained that these
things will be done, and, by the stars of Abraham; it shall be so!"

"My father," said young Abraham, "God will keep all His promises."

The Jew took from a chest of massive cedar wood, empty of all besides, the precious crucifix.

"Look on that," he exclaimed. "Dost thou know what it represents?"

"No," answered Abraham.

"It is the symbol of the faith in which thy father died. A Hebrew impostor, one Jesus, was
nailed by the Roman conquerors of Jerusalem to a cross-piece of wood. He affected to be the
son of David and the Saviour of men. My son, in the name of his punishment the children of
Israel have been burned at the stake, dispersed abroad among the nations, and hated of mankind.
Preaching his imposture thy father and thy mother were suffered to die for their consistency.
See what I have done with the bauble! The years I have expended on thy mind and comfort have
cost me money. From that crucifix, one by one, I have plucked the precious stones for thy education.
Here, from the side, where they say the soldier's spear was thrust, I have sold the costly
ruby. The nail in the feet, a sapphire, paid thy Jewish matron. The emerald in this right hand
purchased thy books. I send thee abroad with the price of the diamonds in the crown."

"Father," said young Abraham, "the image is hallowed to me for thy piety. It is Humanity, O
my father! that has made me devoutly a Jew, and thee, unsuspectingly, a Christian."

He sailed away upon the Eli. His parting words had affected old Issachar so much that his mind
returned along the course of years to the Christmas night he had passed in the outcast preacher's
hut, and the curious story of Jesus he had read there in the New Testament and in the presence
of the dead.

"To-morrow is Christmas," said the Jew; "a hallowed day to me, because it brought me a son
whose obedience and piety have gratified the exile of my old age. Although these Christians
have covered him with their despite, his excellent charity remembers it not. I will be no less
magnanimous, and I will cross the bay and attend the Methodist worship at Snow Hill on Christmas
morning, that I may communicate its frivolity to my son."

He kept his word; and for fear thieves might discover and steal the valuable crucifix, he hid
it beneath his vesture and carried it to the mainland. The little plank meeting-house at the
edge of Snow Hill was filled with whites on the floor, but in the end gallery, amongst the
negroes, Issachar haughtily took his seat, an object of wonder to both races, for his face
and reputation were generally recognized. Perhaps it was for this reason that the young preacher,
a gentle, graceful person, adapted his sermon to the sweetness of the Christian story rather
than bear upon those descriptions which might antagonize his Jewish auditor.

He told the story of the world's selfishness when Christ appeared; how the Jews, living in
the straitest of sectarian aristocracies, inviting and receiving no accessions, had finally
fallen under the dogmatism of the uncharitable Pharisees, who esteemed themselves the only
righteous devotees and doctrinaires amongst the millions of people on the earth. Jesus, a youth
of good Jewish extraction, and honorable family, had been bold enough to denounce Phariseeism
and make its votaries ridiculous. He was scorned by them, if for no other crime, for the cheap
offence, in a bigoted age, denominated blasphemy. Here the preacher, looking toward the Jew,
paid a tribute to the antiquity and loyalty of the better class of Jews, and said that it was
well known that one of his own forerunners in the Christian ministry, dying in penury from
the consequences of a marital mistake, had been befriended in his death and in his posterity
by a gallant follower of the House of Israel.

The congregation, facing about to look at the Jew in the gallery, amongst the negroes, were
surprised to see tears on his gray eyelashes, and the colored elders, who loved Issachar exceedingly,
exclaimed, in stentorian chorus:

"Praise God for dat Israelite, in whom dar is no guile! Hallelujah!"

Then, as if the Christmas frost had melted, these grateful exclamations made warmth at once
in both races, and encouraged the orator in his extemporization. Issachar began to appreciate
the possibility of the founder of a more liberal sect of Jews, whose charitable hand should
be extended to Gentiles also, and whose heaven should comprehend all the posterity of Adam.
Perhaps his son's portrait was in his mind--that loving son who had but just departed in the
interests of the law of Moses and the restoration of the Temple. At the end of the sermon alms
were invited for the support of the minister and the propagation of such a gospel as he had
preached. With a mixture of pride and humility old Issachar descended the gallery stairs and
walked up the aisle, and, taking the crucifix from his breast, planted it upon the altar.

"There," he said, "if your sect asserts the sentiments of this sermon, you are entitled to
this rich image. I am repaid for its possession by a son of Gentile parentage whose obedience
has been the delight of my old years, and for the gift God has given me in him, I tender you
this counterfeit of Jesus nailed on the Roman scaffold."

The congregation gazed a minute at the golden cross. Ireful laughter broke forth, followed by rage.

"The pagan! The papist! The Turk! The idolater!" they exclaimed. "He mocks the memory of our
Saviour on Christmas morning! Out with him!"

The Jew recovered the crucifix and put it beneath his mantle. He vouchsafed no reply except
a scornful "Ha! ha! ha!" and with this he strode out of the Methodist meeting, rejoined his
boatmen, and returned to the island of Chincoteague.

Years passed, and the Jew grew very feeble. He had lasted his fourscore and ten years, and
prosperity had attended him through all, and children loved him; but, true to his first and
only fondness, his heart was ever across the sea, where gentle Abraham, studiously intent amongst
the Rabbis, communicated with his father by every mail and raised the old man's mind to a height
of serious appreciation which greed and commerce had never given him. Although hungering for
his boy, Issachar forebore to disturb young Abraham's studies until a bitter illness came to
him, and in his gloom and solitude his great want burst from his lips, and he said aloud:

"Almighty Father! What will it avail to these old bones if the Temple be rebuilded, and I die
without placing my hands on the eyelids of my boy and blessing him in Thy name? I will pluck
from this Christian image the last jewel and dispose of it, that he may return and place his
hands in mine, and receive my benediction, and gladden me with his gratitude."

The image was therefore wholly separated from the cross. Nothing remained but the figure in
gold of that bloody Pillory on which He died on whom two hundred millions of human beings rely
for intercession with their Creator and Destiny.

The days seemed months to the Jew of Chincoteague. The negroes gathered round his cabin to
be of assistance if he should require it; for they also looked for young Abraham as the Shiloh
of their race, and would have died for old Issachar, unredeemed as they thought him, except
by his goodness to their prince and favorite.

A high tide, following a series of dreadful storms, arose on the coast of the peninsula, as
if the Gulf Stream, like a vast ploughshare, had thrown the Atlantic up from its furrow and
tossed it over the beach of Assateague.

The sturdy ponies were all drowned. The sea was undivided from the bay. Pungy boats and canoes
drifted helplessly along the coast, and the Eli alone was out of danger in the harbor of New
York, waiting to receive young Abraham. At last the freshet crept over the house-tops, and
nothing remained but the cottage of the Jew, planted on piles, which lifting it higher than
the surrounding houses, yet threatened it the more if the water should float it from its pedestal
and send it to sea. Every effort was made to induce the Jew to abandon it, but he was obdurate.

"By the tables of the law!" he said, "living or dead, here will I abide until my son returns."

The bravest negro left the island of Chincoteague at last, placing food beside old Issachar,
and there he lay upon his pallet, with nothing to pierce the darkness of his lair except that
sacred cross he had raised from the depths of the ocean. That object, like a sentient, overruling
thing, still shed its lustre upon the wretched interior of the deserted hut, and, day by day,
repeated its story to the neglected occupant.

The mighty storm increased in power as Christmas approached, in the year one thousand eight
hundred and fifty----. Wrecks came ashore on the submerged shoal of Chincoteague, but there
were now no wreckers to labor for salvage. The Eli, too, was overdue. One night a familiar
gun was heard at sea, thrice, and twice thrice, and Issachar raised up and said, in anguish:

"It is my schooner. My son is at hand and in danger. Oh! for a day's strength, as I had it
in my youth, to go to his relief through the surf. But, miserable object that I am! I cannot
rise from my bed. What help, what hope, in the earth or in heaven can I implore?"

The naked cross beamed brightly all at once in the darkness of the cabin. Issachar felt the
legend it conveyed, and with piety, not apostacy, he uttered:

"O Paschal Lamb! O Waif of God! Die Thou for me this night, and give me to look upon the countenance
of my son!"

The Jew, intently gazing at the cross, passed into such a stupor or ecstasy that he had no
knowledge of the flight of time. He only knew that, after a certain dreamy interval, the door
of his house yielded to a living man, and, nearly naked with breasting the surf and fighting
for life, young Abraham staggered into the hut and recognized his father.

"O son!" cried Issachar, "I feel the news thou hast to tell. The Eli is wrecked and thou only
hast survived. The moments are precious. Hark! this house is yielding to the buoyant current.
Stay not for me, whose sands are nearly run. I am too old to try for life or fear to die, but
thou art full of youth and beauty, and Israel needs thee in the world behind me. Let me bless
thee, Abraham, and commit thee to God."

The water entered the cracks of the cabin; a pitching motion, as if it were afloat, made the
son of the negro cling closer to the Jew.

"Father," he said, "I have passed the bitterness of death. When the vessel struck and threw
me into the surf, I cried to God and fought for life. The waves rolled over me, and the agony
of dying so young and happy grew into such a terror that I could not pray. In my despair a
something seemed to grasp me, like tongs of iron, and my eyes were filled with light, bright
as the face of the I AM. Behold! I am here, and that which saved me has made me content to
die by thee."

The old man drew the dripping ringlets of the younger one to his venerable beard. The house
rocked like a sailing vessel, and the strong sea-fogs seemed to close them round.

"We are sailing to sea," whispered the Jew. "It is too late to escape. The next billow may
fling us apart, and our bones shall descend amongst the oyster-shells to build houses for the
nutritious beings of the water. Thence, some day, my son, from the heavens God may drop His
tongs and draw us up to Him, as on this night thy father and I drew the casket, many years
ago. Look there! Look there!"

The heads of both were turned toward the spot where the finger of the old man pointed, and
they saw the denuded cross shining in the light of the agitated fire, so large and bright that
it reduced all other objects to insignificance.

"It was a light like that," exclaimed Abraham, "which shone in my eyes through the darkness
of the billows."

