I closed the doors feeling more danger for her life than the child's and coming softly in,
drew back the curtains from the bed. She spoke, "I heard them--it is Henry; oh, I knew he went--is
he dead?" But she never seemed to hear the answer I gave her. She commenced coughing--she died
in agony--strangled to death. The poor mother! The boy's disobedience killed her.

After a couple of hours I sought the boy's room.

"Oh, I wish I had not told mother I did not love her. Tomorrow I will tell her I do," said
the child sobbing painfully. My heart ached; tomorrow I knew we must tell him she was dead.
We did not till the child came fully into the room, crying, "Mother, I do love you."

Oh! may I never see agony like that child's, as the lips he kissed gave back no kiss, as the
hands he took fell lifeless from his hand, instead of shaking his hand as it always had, and
the boy knew she was dead.

"Mother, I do love you now," all the day he sobbed and cried, "O Mother, Mother, forgive me."
Then he would not leave his mother. "Speak to me, Mother!" but she could never speak again,
and he--the last words she had ever heard him say, were, "Mother, I don't love you now."

That boy's whole life was changed; sober and sad he was ever after. He is now a gray haired
old man, with one sorrow over his one act of disobedience, one wrong word embittering all his
life--with those words ever ringing in his ears, "Mother, I don't love you now."

Will the little ones who read this remember, if they disobey their mother, if they are cross
and naughty, they say every single time they do so, to a tender mother's heart, by their actions
if not in the words of Henry, the very same thing, "I don't love you now, Mother."

"LITTLE MOTHER"

She was a clear-eyed, fresh-cheeked little maiden, living on the banks of the great Mississippi,
the oldest of four children, and mother's "little woman" always. They called her so because
of her quiet, matronly care of the younger Mayfields--that was the father's name. Her own name
was the beautiful one of Elizabeth, but they shortened it to Bess.

She was thirteen when one day Mr. Mayfield and his wife were called to the nearest town, six
miles away. "Be mother's little woman, dear," said Mrs. Mayfield as she kissed the rosy face.
Her husband added: "I leave the children in your care, Bess; be a little mother to them."

Bess waved her old sun-bonnet vigorously, and held up the baby Rose, that she might watch them
to the last. Old Daddy Jim and Mammy had been detailed by Mr. Mayfield to keep an unsuspected
watch on the little nestlings, and were to sleep at the house. Thus two days went by, when
Daddy Jim and Mammy begged to be allowed to go to the quarters where the Negroes lived, to
see their daughter, "Jennie, who was pow'ful bad wid the toothache." They declared they would
be back by evening, so Bess was willing. She put the little girls to bed and persuaded Rob
to go; then seated herself by the table with her mother's work-basket, in quaint imitation
of Mrs. Mayfield's industry in the evening time. But what was this? Her feet touched something
cold! She bent down and felt around with her hand. A pool of water was spreading over the floor.
She knew what it was; the Mississippi had broken through the levee. What should she do? Mammy's
stories of how homes had been washed away and broken in pieces were in her mind. "Oh, if I
had a boat!" she exclaimed. "But there isn't anything of the sort on the place." She ran wildly
out to look for Mammy; and stumbled over something sitting near the edge of the porch. A sudden
inspiration took her. Here was her boat! a very large, old-fashioned, oblong tub. The water
was now several inches deep on the porch and she contrived to half-float, half-row the tub
into the room.

Without frightening the children she got them dressed in the warmest clothes they had. She
lined the oblong tub with a blanket, and made ready bread and cold meat left from supper. With
Rob's assistance she dragged the tub upstairs. There was a single large window in the room,
and they set the tub directly by it, so that when the water rose the tub would float out. There
was no way for the children to reach the roof, which was a very steep, inclined one. It did
not seem long before the water had very nearly risen to the top of the stairs leading from below.

Bess flung the window open, and made Rob get into their novel boat; then she lifted in Kate,
and finally baby Rose, who began to cry, was given into Rob's arms, and now the little mother,
taking the basket of food, made ready to enter, too; but, lo! there was no room for her with
safety to the rest. Bess paused a moment, drew a long breath, and kissed the children quietly.
She explained to Rob that he must guard the basket, and that they must sit still. "Goodbye,
dears. Say a prayer for sister, Rob. If you ever see father and mother, tell them I took care
of you." Then the water seized the insecure vessel, and out into the dark night it floated.

The next day Mr. Mayfield, who, with his neighbors, scoured the broad lake of eddying water
that represented the Mississippi, discovered the tub lodged in the branches of a sycamore with
the children weeping and chilled, but safe.

And Bess? Ah, where was Bess, the "little mother," who in that brief moment resigned herself
to death? They found her later, floating on the water with her brave childish face turned to
the sky; and as strong arms lifted her into the boat, the tears from every eye paid worthy
tribute to the "little mother."

--Detroit Free Press

ROBBIE GOODMAN'S PRAYER

"What can be the matter with Walter," thought Mama Ellis as she sat sewing in her pleasant
sitting-room. "He came in so very quietly, closed the door gently and I think I even heard
him go to the closet to hang up his books. Oh! dear. I hope he isn't going to have another
attack of 'Grippe,'" and Mrs. Ellis shivered as she glanced out at the snow-covered landscape.
As her eyes turned once more to the warm, luxurious room in which she was seated, the portieres
were pushed aside and a little boy of ten years of age entered. Little Walter was all that
remained of four beautiful children, who, only a year ago, romped gaily through the large halls.
That dread disease, diphtheria, had stolen the older brother and laughing little sisters in
one short week's time, so that now, as the sad anniversary came near to hand, Mrs. Ellis' heart
ached for her lost birdlings and yearned more jealously than ever over her remaining little
one. Today his usually merry face was very grave and he looked very thoughtful as he gave his
mother her kiss and allowed himself to be drawn upon her lap.

"What ails mother's Pet? Is he sick?" she asked anxiously.

"No, Mother dear, I'm not sick, but I feel so sad at heart. You see," he continued in answer
to her questioning look, "Robbie Goodman and I always walk together going and coming from school,
and I have noticed that he has never worn any overcoat this winter, but you know its been unusually
warm and I thought perhaps his mother did not make him wrap up like you did me, but this morning
it was so cold and he was just shivering, but he never had on any overcoat--just his mittens
and muffler and cap were his wraps. Of course I noticed it, for nearly everyone else was all
bundled up; but I didn't say anything as I did not want to be impolite. After awhile he said,
'My, I am so cold,' and I said: 'Where's your overcoat?' Then he told me it was too small and
his papa can't buy him any this winter so he is afraid he will have to stop school. His mama
says she would cut his papa's up for him, only then he would not have any; and of course he
must have one to wear when he goes to the chapel and to see sick people. Even that one is thin
and patched. He says he and his little sisters have been praying so hard for an overcoat for
him and shoes for them, but they did not come at Christmas like they thought they would, and
they are real discouraged.

"Tonight, Mother," continued Walter, "he had an awful cold and coughed just like our Harry
did last year," and the long pent up tears flowed from the child's eyes. As mother and son
dried their tears, the child looked up with perfect confidence as he said, "The Lord will answer
Robbie's prayer, won't he. Mama?"

"Yes darling," said Mrs. Ellis; and sent the child off to the play room.

"By the way, my dear," remarked Mrs. Ellis as they sat chatting at the tea-table after Walter
had retired, "what has become of that preacher Goodman who preached for us once on trial?"

"Oh, he has a mission down on the other side of the city, but he lives on this side as Moore
gives him the house rent free. I met him the other day. He looked very needy. The man had wonderful
talents and might have a rich congregation and improve himself; but he is persistent in his
ideas concerning this holiness movement, and of course a large church like ours wants something
to attract and interest instead of such egotistical discourses. I, for one, go to sleep under
them." And Mr. Ellis drew himself up with a pompous air as he went into the library, whither
his wife presently followed.

He had picked up a newspaper and was apparently absorbed, but Mrs. Ellis had not had her say,
so she continued "Walter was telling me about the little boy. He--"

"Oh, yes," interrupted her husband, "he met me in the hall and poured out the whole story.
The child's nerves were all wrought up, too. He should not be allowed to worry over such things.
He wants me to give up buying him the fur-trimmed overcoat and get a coat and shoes for Goodman's
children, as they were praying so hard for them, but I have enough to do without clothing other
people's children. If Goodman would quit his cranky notions and use his talents for people
who could understand him, instead of preaching to those ragamuffins he might now be receiving
a magnificent salary and clothing himself and family decently."

"But Paul," said Mrs. Ellis, "Surely you would not have Mr. Goodman sacrifice his convictions
simply for money and praise, when you yourself, are convinced that his doctrines are sound?
Besides he must be doing a good work down among the poor classes of the city as it appears
the rich don't want him."

"Then let the poor give enough to keep him."

"They do give far beyond their means but the Lord calls on such as us to give. I know it has
been an unusually hard year but the Lord has blessed us and He will hold us to an account.
I feel very sad as the anniversary of our darlings' departure draws near and I dread to think
of any little ones suffering while we could so easily help them."

"I don't see how you can feel that we have been so blessed. When the house is so quiet and
I think of those white graves in the cemetery I confess I feel very bitter."

"Paul, my dear husband, don't feel that way. Just think of our three treasures in heaven, an
added claim to that glorious realm, away from this cold and suffering. Remember also that we
have one left, to live for, to train. And, Paul, let us train him for the Master and in such
a way that we may never have the feeling that it were better if he, too, had departed when
he was pure and innocent. Let us encourage benevolence and gentleness and if he wishes to go
without the fur-trimmed coat, why not do as he asks?" Mrs. Ellis kissed her husband and quietly
left the room.

Long and late, Paul Ellis sat there and many things, ghosts of the past, rose before him. As
the midnight chimes rang out he knelt and prayed. "Oh, Lord, forgive me. I have gone astray
and turned to my own way. I have been prejudiced. It was my influence which turned the tide
against Robert Goodman. Thou knowest. Now, if Thou wilt only forgive and help me I will walk
in the light as Thou sendest it, even consenting to be called a 'holiness crank.'"

A few days afterward Robert Goodman received a large package from an unknown friend containing
a warm overcoat and three pairs of shoes. His father also received a present. It came through
the mail and was an honest confession of a wrong done him, also a check for one hundred dollars.
One year later this church gave a unanimous call to Brother Goodman and the revival which broke
out that winter was unprecedented in the annals of that church. Verily, "A little child shall
lead them."

--Luella Watson Kinder, in Christian Witness

CARLETTA AND THE MERCHANT

"If I could only have your faith, gladly would I--but I was born a skeptic. I cannot look upon
God and the future as you do."

So said John Harvey as he walked with a friend under a dripping umbrella. John Harvey was a
skeptic of thirty years standing and apparently hardened in his unbelief. Everybody had given
him up as hopeless. Reasoning ever so calmly made no impression on the rocky soil of his heart.
Alas! it was sad, very sad!

But one friend had never given him up. When spoken to about him-- "I will talk with and pray
for that man until I die," he said; "and I will have faith that he may yet come out of darkness
into the marvelous light."

And thus whenever he met him (John Harvey was always ready for a "talk,") Mr. Hawkins pressed
home the truth. In answer, on that stormy night, he said: "God can change a skeptic, John.
He has more power over your heart than you, and I mean still to pray for you."

"Oh, I have no objections, none in the world--seeing is believing, you know. I'm ready for
any miracle; but I tell you it would take nothing short of a miracle to convince me. Let's
change the subject. I'm hungry and it's too far to go up town to supper on this stormy night.
Here's a restaurant: let us stop here."

How warm and pleasant it looked in the long, brilliant dining saloon!

The two merchants had eaten, and were just on the point of rising when a strain of soft music
came through the open door--a child's sweet voice.

"'Pon my word, that is pretty," said John Harvey; "what purity in those tones!"

"Out of here, you little baggage!" cried a hoarse voice, and one of the waiters pointed angrily
to the door.

"Let her come in," said John Harvey.

"We don't allow them in this place, sir," said the waiter, "but she can go into the reading-room."

"Well, let her go somewhere. I want to hear her," responded the gentleman.

All this time the two had seen the shadow of something hovering backwards and forwards on the
edge of the door; now they followed a slight little figure, wrapped in a patched cloak, patched
hood, and leaving the mark of wet feet as she walked. Curious to see her face--she was very
small--John Harvey lured her to the farthest part of the great room where there were but few
gentlemen, and then motioned her to sing. The little one looked timidly up. Her cheek was of
olive darkness, but a flush rested there, and out of the thinnest face, under the arch of broad
temples, deepened by masses of the blackest hair looked two eyes whose softness and tender
pleading would have touched the hardest heart.

"That little thing is sick, I believe," said John Harvey, compassionately. "What do you sing,
child?" he added.

"I sing Italian or a little English."

John Harvey looked at her shoes. "Why," he exclaimed, and his lips quivered, "her feet are
wet to her ankles; she will catch her death of cold."

