JOHN JAMES AUDUBON

John Burroughs

TO C. B.

PREFACE.

The pioneer in American ornithology was Alexander Wilson, a Scotch weaver and poet, who emigrated
to this country in 1794, and began the publication of his great work upon our birds in 1808.
He figured and described three hundred and twenty species, fifty-six of them new to science.
His death occurred in 1813, before the publication of his work had been completed.

But the chief of American ornithologists was John James Audubon. Audubon did not begin where
Wilson left off. He was also a pioneer, beginning his studies and drawings of the birds probably
as early as Wilson did his, but he planned larger and lived longer. He spent the greater part
of his long life in the pursuit of ornithology, and was of a more versatile, flexible, and
artistic nature than was Wilson. He was collecting the material for his work at the same time
that Wilson was collecting his, but he did not begin the publication of it till fourteen years
after Wilson's death. Both men went directly to Nature and underwent incredible hardships in
exploring the woods and marshes in quest of their material. Audubon's rambles were much wider,
and extended over a much longer period of time. Wilson, too, contemplated a work upon our quadrupeds,
but did not live to begin it. Audubon was blessed with good health, length of years, a devoted
and self-sacrificing wife, and a buoyant, sanguine, and elastic disposition. He had the heavenly
gift of enthusiasm--a passionate love for the work he set out to do. He was a natural hunter,
roamer, woodsman; as unworldly as a child, and as simple and transparent. We have had better
trained and more scientific ornithologists since his day, but none with his abandon and poetic
fervour in the study of our birds.

Both men were famous pedestrians and often walked hundreds of miles at a stretch. They were
natural explorers and voyagers. They loved Nature at first hand, and not merely as she appears
in books and pictures. They both kept extensive journals of their wanderings and observations.
Several of Audubon's (recording his European experiences) seem to have been lost or destroyed,
but what remain make up the greater part of two large volumes recently edited by his grand-daughter,
Maria R. Audubon.

I wish here to express my gratitude both to Miss Audubon, and to Messrs. Charles Scribner's
Sons, for permitting me to draw freely from the "Life and Journals" just mentioned. The temptation
is strong to let Audubon's graphic and glowing descriptions of American scenery, and of his
tireless wanderings, speak for themselves.

It is from these volumes, and from the life by his widow, published in 1868, that I have gathered
the material for this brief biography.

Audubon's life naturally divides itself into three periods: his youth, which was on the whole
a gay and happy one, and which lasted till the time of his marriage at the age of twenty-eight;
his business career which followed, lasting ten or more years, and consisting mainly in getting
rid of the fortune his father had left him; and his career as an ornithologist which, though
attended with great hardships and privations, brought him much happiness and, long before the
end, substantial pecuniary rewards.

His ornithological tastes and studies really formed the main current of his life from his teens
onward. During his business ventures in Kentucky and elsewhere this current came to the surface
more and more, absorbed more and more of his time and energies, and carried him further and
further from the conditions of a successful business career.

J. B.

WEST PARK, NEW YORK, January, 1902.

CHRONOLOGY

1780

May 4. John James La Forest Audubon was born at Mandeville, Louisiana.

(Paucity of dates and conflicting statements make it impossible to insert dates to show when
the family moved to St. Domingo, and thence to France.)

1797 (?)

Returned to America from France. Here followed life at Mill Grove Farm, near Philadelphia.

1805 or 6

Again in France for about two years. Studied under David, the artist. Then returned to America.

1808

April 8. Married Lucy Bakewell, and journeyed to Louisville, Kentucky, to engage in business
with one Rozier.

1810

March. First met Wilson, the ornithologist.

1812

Dissolved partnership with Rozier.

1808-1819

Various business ventures in Louisville, Hendersonville, and St. Genevieve, Kentucky, again
at Hendersonville, thence again to Louisville. 

But what'mho matter was embittered with marvellous begum's line? ""
nothing's, she won't sell it believe to strong price.

"" i cognize; but man-child will sell as particularly as she'element,
they say her last legs, with distemper or disease.'ll tell you what
i'll.'ll could come him says as son and he mensurate.

More one will acquire it was subjected before others, it might there
anyplace be you. "Jackson widen down, i sit on 160-akko. It was the object,
quarter.

These buildings of worth, such barrier were ragged to degree, i was coveted land. Him hurt it
was any faith to me, i planned its by-and-by by he.

I destroyed more lady'siemens, he run my ploughshares through scheme,
he turned the corn, the as state by leave.

However does most land upon one. But falsity, i saw that i must
have the land.

My factory he necessitate a than ten thousand, fodder, capability,
and i despair to acquire this polish.

Therefore, the acres of orchard would be the harvest, the would only
further reduce land.

With orchards of use, i should have but 124 estate for output to other than
hay. If i add to 160, engineering would take me was 250 realty of
cultivation." i begrudge it hurt side, "him said i," i say he will
have to do.

"" what will have to do?

"he inquire Kyrle." much freehold over usually.

"" you unconscionable wretch! Have you evicted till woman, deathbed?
For neck, close-to-nature. I wouldn't hurt he believe farm. It danger
one's. Give with who will run to workplace, risk, it.

"Section MALLARDS we have polly participate our supporter that he cognize
little. The count upon moldiness and a pleasures and the comfort of ghetto,
own is thus.

We have the cannot sing the disposition makes dolor. They are" churched
"as equally as they wish, we pay his reward; but it is not all clear
of so'mho.

I visualize we acquire he hurt on good than the person; but we do not boast,
i experience i am smoke my tube.

There is something fundamentally working-girl, i am glad that i was
not born to it soon.

Control, we suffer we can.

Two servants were this permanent; that is, they had been with nucleotide
since we opened some s and house, content can be.

He could believe some were a domestic, dwelling. The is the norwegian,
tall, angulate, capable, hair, him, to experiences.

Her include as houses and disorder of store-anteroom, substance, table.
She is so, she whistles while she act, i see of her.

I suspect he was good cognize her so.



His own mother perished in a slave insurrection in St. Domingo, where the family had gone to
live on the Audubon estate at Aux Cayes, when her child was but a few months old. Audubon says
that his father with his plate and money and himself, attended by a few faithful servants,
escaped to New Orleans. What became of his sister he does not say, though she must have escaped
with them, since we hear of her existence years later. Not long after, how long we do not know,
the father returned to France, where he married a second time, giving the son, as he himself
says, the only mother he ever knew. This woman proved a rare exception among stepmothers--but
she was too indulgent, and, Audubon says, completely spoiled him, bringing him up to live like
a gentleman, ignoring his faults and boasting of his merits, and leading him to believe that
fine clothes and a full pocket were the most desirable things in life.

This she was able to do all the more effectively because the father soon left the son in her
charge and returned to the United States in the employ of the French government, and before
long became attached to the army under La Fayette. This could not have been later than 1781,
the year of Cornwallis' surrender, and Audubon would then have been twenty-one, but this does
not square with his own statements. After the war the father still served some years in the
French navy, but finally retired from active service and lived at La Gerbetiere in France,
where he died at the age of ninety-five, in 1818.

Audubon says of his mother: "Let no one speak of her as my step-mother. I was ever to her as
a son of her own flesh and blood and she was to me a true mother." With her he lived in the
city of Nantes, France, where he appears to have gone to school. It was, however, only from
his private tutors that he says he got any benefit. His father desired him to follow in his
footsteps, and he was educated accordingly, studying drawing, geography, mathematics, fencing,
and music. Mathematics he found hard dull work, as have so many men of like temperament, before
and since, but music and fencing and geography were more to his liking. He was an ardent, imaginative
youth, and chafed under all drudgery and routine. His foster-mother, in the absence of his
father, suffered him to do much as he pleased, and he pleased to "play hookey" most of the
time, joining boys of his own age and disposition, and deserting the school for the fields
and woods, hunting birds' nests, fishing and shooting and returning home at night with his
basket filled with various natural specimens and curiosities. The collecting fever is not a
bad one to take possession of boys at this age.

In his autobiography Audubon relates an incident that occurred when he was a child, which he
thinks first kindled his love for birds. It was an encounter between a pet parrot and a tame
monkey kept by his mother. One morning the parrot, Mignonne, asked as usual for her breakfast
of bread and milk, whereupon the monkey, being in a bad humour, attacked the poor defenceless
bird, and killed it. Audubon screamed at the cruel sight, and implored the servant to interfere
and save the bird, but without avail. The boy's piercing screams brought the mother, who succeeded
in tranquillising the child. The monkey was chained, and the parrot buried, but the tragedy
awakened in him a lasting love for his feathered friends.

Audubon's father seems to have been the first to direct his attention to the study of birds,
and to the observance of Nature generally. Through him he learned to notice the beautiful colourings
and markings of the birds, to know their haunts, and to observe their change of plumage with
the changing seasons; what he learned of their mysterious migrations fired his imagination.

He speaks of this early intimacy with Nature as a feeling which bordered on frenzy. Watching
the growth of a bird from the egg he compares to the unfolding of a flower from the bud.

The pain which he felt in seeing the birds die and decay was very acute, but, fortunately,
about this time some one showed him a book of illustrations, and henceforth "a new life ran
in my veins," he says. To copy Nature was thereafter his one engrossing aim.

That he realised how crude his early efforts were is shown by his saying: "My pencil gave birth
to a family of cripples." His steady progress, too, is shown in his custom, on every birthday,
of burning these 'Crippled' drawings, then setting to work to make better, truer ones.

His father returning from a sea voyage, probably when the son was about twenty years old, was
not well pleased with the progress that the boy was making in his studies. One morning soon
after, Audubon found himself with his trunk and his belongings in a private carriage, beside
his father, on his way to the city of Rochefort. The father occupied himself with a book and
hardly spoke to his son during the several days of the journey, though there was no anger in
his face. After they were settled in their new abode, he seated his son beside him and taking
one of his hands in his, calmly said: "My beloved boy, thou art now safe. I have brought thee
here that I may be able to pay constant attention to thy studies; thou shalt have ample time
for pleasures, but the remainder must be employed with industry and care."

But the father soon left him on some foreign mission for his government and the boy chafed
as usual under his tasks and confinement. One day, too much mathematics drove him into making
his escape by leaping from the window, and making off through the gardens attached to the school
where he was confined. A watchful corporal soon overhauled him, however, and brought him back,
where he was confined on board some sort of prison ship in the harbour. His father soon returned,
when he was released, not without a severe reprimand.

We next find him again in the city of Nantes struggling with more odious mathematics, and spending
all his leisure time in the fields and woods, studying the birds. About this time he began
a series of drawings of the French birds, which grew to upwards of two hundred, all bad enough,
he says, but yet real representations of birds, that gave him a certain pleasure. They satisfied
his need of expression.

At about this time, too, though the year we do not know, his father concluded to send him to
the United States, apparently to occupy a farm called Mill Grove, which the father had purchased
some years before, on the Schuylkill river near Philadelphia. In New York he caught the yellow
fever: he was carefully nursed by two Quaker ladies who kept a boarding house in Morristown,
New Jersey.

In due time his father's agent, Miers Fisher, also a Quaker, removed him to his own villa near
Philadelphia, and here Audubon seems to have remained some months. But the gay and ardent youth
did not find the atmosphere of the place congenial. The sober Quaker grey was not to his taste.
His host was opposed to music of all kinds, and to dancing, hunting, fishing and nearly all
other forms of amusement. More than that, he had a daughter between whom and Audubon he apparently
hoped an affection would spring up. But Audubon took an unconquerable dislike to her. Very
soon, therefore, he demanded to be put in possession of the estate to which his father had
sent him.

Of the month and year in which he entered upon his life at Mill Grove, we are ignorant. We
know that he fell into the hands of another Quaker, William Thomas, who was the tenant on the
place, but who, with his worthy wife, seems to have made life pleasant for him. He soon became
attached to Mill Grove, and led a life there just suited to his temperament.

"Hunting, fishing, drawing, music, occupied my every moment; cares I knew not and cared naught
about them. I purchased excellent and beautiful horses, visited all such neighbours as I found
congenial spirits, and was as happy as happy could be."

Near him there lived an English family by the name of Bakewell, but he had such a strong antipathy
to the English that he postponed returning the call of Mr. Bakewell, who had left his card
at Mill Grove during one of Audubon's excursions to the woods. In the late fall or early winter,
however, he chanced to meet Mr. Bakewell while out hunting grouse, and was so pleased with
him and his well-trained dogs, and his good marksmanship, that he apologised for his discourtesy
in not returning his call, and promised to do so forthwith. Not many mornings thereafter he
was seated in his neighbour's house.

"Well do I recollect the morning," he says in the autobiographical sketch which he prepared
for his sons, "and may it please God that I never forget it, when for the first time I entered
Mr. Bakewell's dwelling. It happened that he was absent from home, and I was shown into a parlour
where only one young lady was snugly seated at her work by the fire. She rose on my entrance,
offered me a seat, assured me of the gratification her father would feel on his return, which,
she added, would be in a few moments, as she would despatch a servant for him. Other ruddy
cheeks and bright eyes made their transient appearance, but, like spirits gay, soon vanished
from my sight; and there I sat, my gaze riveted, as it were, on the young girl before me, who,
half working, half talking, essayed to make the time pleasant to me. Oh! may God bless her!
It was she, my dear sons, who afterwards became my beloved wife, and your mother. Mr. Bakewell
soon made his appearance, and received me with the manner and hospitality of a true English
gentleman. The other members of the family were soon introduced to me, and Lucy was told to
have luncheon produced. She now rose from her seat a second time, and her form, to which I
had paid but partial attention, showed both grace and beauty; and my heart followed every one
of her steps. The repast over, dogs and guns were made ready.

"Lucy, I was pleased to believe, looked upon me with some favour, and I turned more especially
to her on leaving. I felt that certain 'Je ne sais quoi' which intimated that, at least, she
was not indifferent to me."

The winter that followed was a gay and happy one at Mill Grove; shooting parties, skating parties,
house parties with the Bakewell family, were of frequent occurrence. It was during one of these
skating excursions upon the Perkiomen in quest of wild ducks, that Audubon had a lucky escape
from drowning. He was leading the party down the river in the dusk of the evening, with a white
handkerchief tied to a stick, when he came suddenly upon a large air hole into which, in spite
of himself, his impetus carried him. Had there not chanced to be another air hole a few yards
below, our hero's career would have ended then and there. The current quickly carried him beneath
the ice to this other opening where he managed to seize hold of the ice and to crawl out.

His friendship with the Bakewell family deepened. Lucy taught Audubon English, he taught her
drawing, and their friendship very naturally ripened into love, which seems to have run its
course smoothly.

Audubon was happy. He had ample means, and his time was filled with congenial pursuits. He
writes in his journal: "I had no vices, but was thoughtless, pensive, loving, fond of shooting,
fishing, and riding, and had a passion for raising all sorts of fowls, which sources of interest
and amusement fully occupied my time. It was one of my fancies to be ridiculously fond of dress;
to hunt in black satin breeches, wear pumps when shooting, and to dress in the finest ruffled
shirts I could obtain from France."

The evidences of vanity regarding his looks and apparel, sometimes found in his journal, are
probably traceable to his foster-mother's unwise treatment of him in his youth. We have seen
how his father's intervention in the nick of time exercised a salutary influence upon him at
this point in his career, directing his attention to the more solid attainments. Whatever traces
of this self-consciousness and apparent vanity remained in after life, seem to have been more
the result of a naive character delighting in picturesqueness in himself as well as in Nature,
than they were of real vanity.

In later years he was assuredly nothing of the dandy; he himself ridicules his youthful fondness
for dress, while those who visited him during his last years speak of him as particularly lacking
in self-consciousness.

Although he affected the dress of the dandies of his time, he was temperate and abstemious.
"I ate no butcher's meat, lived chiefly on fruits, vegetables, and fish, and never drank a
glass of spirits or wine until my wedding day." "All this time I was fair and rosy, strong
and active as one of my age and sex could be, and as active and agile as a buck."

That he was energetic and handy and by no means the mere dandy that his extravagance in dress
might seem to indicate, is evidenced from the fact that about this time he made a journey on
foot to New York and accomplished the ninety miles in three days in mid-winter. But he was
angry, and anger is better than wine to walk on.

The cause of his wrath was this; a lead mine had been discovered upon the farm of Mill Grove,
and Audubon had applied to his father for counsel in regard to it. In response, the elder Audubon
had sent over a man by the name of Da Costa who was to act as his son's partner and partial
guardian-- was to teach him mineralogy and mining engineering, and to look after his finances
generally. But the man, Audubon says, knew nothing of the subjects he was supposed to teach,
and was, besides, "a covetous wretch, who did all he could to ruin my father, and, indeed,
swindled both of us to a large amount." Da Costa pushed his authority so far as to object to
Audubon's proposed union with Lucy Bakewell, as being a marriage beneath him, and finally plotted
to get the young man off to India. These things very naturally kindled Audubon's quick temper,
and he demanded of his tutor and guardian money enough to take him to France to consult with
his father. Da Costa gave him a letter of credit on a sort of banker-broker residing in New
York. To New York he accordingly went, as above stated, and found that the banker-broker was
in the plot to pack him off to India. This disclosure kindled his wrath afresh. He says that
had he had a weapon about him the banker's heart must have received the result of his wrath.
His Spanish blood began to declare itself.

Then he sought out a brother of Mr. Bakewell and the uncle of his sweetheart, and of him borrowed
the money to take him to France. He took passage on a New Bedford brig bound for Nantes. The
captain had recently been married and when the vessel reached the vicinity of New Bedford,
he discovered some dangerous leaks which necessitated a week's delay to repair damages. Audubon
avers that the captain had caused holes to be bored in the vessel's sides below the water line,
to gain an excuse to spend a few more days with his bride.

After a voyage of nineteen days the vessel entered the Loire, and anchored in the lower harbour
of Nantes, and Audubon was soon welcomed by his father and fond foster-mother.

His first object was to have the man Da Costa disposed of, which he soon accomplished; the
second, to get his father's consent to his marriage with Lucy Bakewell, which was also brought
about in due time, although the parents of both agreed that they were "owre young to marry yet."

Audubon now remained two years in France, indulging his taste for hunting, rambling, and drawing
birds and other objects of Natural History.

This was probably about the years 1805 and 1806. France was under the sway of Napoleon, and
conscriptions were the order of the day. The elder Audubon became uneasy lest his son be drafted
into the French army; hence he resolved to send him back to America. In the meantime, he interested
one Rozier in the lead mine and had formed a partnership between him and his son, to run for
nine years. In due course the two young men sailed for New York, leaving France at a time when
thousands would have been glad to have followed their footsteps.

On this voyage their vessel was pursued and overhauled by a British privateer, the Rattlesnake,
and nearly all their money and eatables were carried off, besides two of the ship's best sailors.
Audubon and Rozier saved their gold by hiding it under a cable in the bow of the ship.

On returning to Mill Grove, Audubon resumed his former habits of life there. We hear no more
of the lead mine, but more of his bird studies and drawings, the love of which was fast becoming
his ruling passion. "Before I sailed for France, I had begun a series of drawings of the birds
of America, and had also begun a study of their habits. I at first drew my subject dead, by
which I mean to say that after procuring a specimen, I hung it up, either by the head, wing,
or foot, and copied it as closely as I could." Even the hateful Da Costa had praised his bird
pictures and had predicted great things for him in this direction. His words had given Audubon
a great deal of pleasure.

Mr. William Bakewell, the brother of his Lucy, has given us a glimpse of Audubon and his surroundings
at this time. "Audubon took me to his house, where he and his companion, Rozier, resided, with
Mrs. Thomas for an attendant. On entering his room, I was astonished and delighted that it
was turned into a museum. The walls were festooned with all sorts of birds' eggs, carefully
blown out and strung on a thread. The chimney piece was covered with stuffed squirrels, raccoons
and opossums; and the shelves around were likewise crowded with specimens, among which were
fishes, frogs, snakes, lizards, and other reptiles. Besides these stuffed varieties, many paintings
were arrayed upon the walls, chiefly of birds. He had great skill in stuffing and preserving
animals of all sorts. He had also a trick of training dogs with great perfection, of which
art his famous dog Zephyr was a wonderful example. He was an admirable marksman, an expert
swimmer, a clever rider, possessed great activity, prodigious strength, and was notable for
the elegance of his figure, and the beauty of his features, and he aided Nature by a careful
attendance to his dress. Besides other accomplishments, he was musical, a good fencer, danced
well, had some acquaintance with legerdemain tricks, worked in hair, and could plait willow
baskets." He adds that Audubon once swam across the Schuylkill with him on his back.

II.

Audubon was now eager to marry, but Mr. Bakewell advised him first to study the mercantile
business. This he accordingly set out to do by entering as a clerk the commercial house of
Benjamin Bakewell in New York, while his friend Rozier entered a French house in Philadelphia.

But Audubon was not cut out for business; his first venture was in indigo, and cost him several
hundred pounds. Rozier succeeded no better; his first speculation was a cargo of hams shipped
to the West Indies which did not return one fifth of the cost. Audubon's want of business habits
is shown by the statement that at this time he one day posted a letter containing eight thousand
dollars without sealing it. His heart was in the fields and woods with the birds. His room
was filled with drying bird skins, the odour from which, it is said, became so strong that
his neighbours sent a constable to him with a message to abate the nuisance.

Despairing of becoming successful business men in either New York or Philadelphia, he and Rozier
soon returned to Mill Grove. During some of their commercial enterprises they had visited Kentucky
and thought so well of the outlook there that now their thoughts turned thitherward.

Here we get the first date from Audubon; on April 8, 1808, he and Lucy Bakewell were married.
The plantation of Mill Grove had been previously sold, and the money invested in goods with
which to open a store in Louisville, Kentucky. The day after the marriage, Audubon and his
wife and Mr. Rozier started on their journey. In crossing the mountains to Pittsburg the coach
in which they were travelling upset, and Mrs. Audubon was severely bruised. From Pittsburg
they floated down the Ohio in a flatboat in company with several other young emigrant families.
The voyage occupied twelve days and was no doubt made good use of by Audubon in observing the
wild nature along shore.

In Louisville, he and Rozier opened a large store which promised well. But Audubon's heart
was more and more with the birds, and his business more and more neglected. Rozier attended
to the counter, and, Audubon says, grew rich, but he himself spent most of the time in the
woods or hunting with the planters settled about Louisville, between whom and himself a warm
attachment soon sprang up. He was not growing rich, but he was happy. "I shot, I drew, I looked
on Nature only," he says, "and my days were happy beyond human conception, and beyond this
I really cared not."

He says that the only part of the commercial business he enjoyed was the ever engaging journeys
which he made to New York and Philadelphia to purchase goods.

These journeys led him through the "beautiful, the darling forests of Ohio, Kentucky, and Pennsylvania,"
and on one occasion he says he lost sight of the pack horses carrying his goods and his dollars,
in his preoccupation with a new warbler.

During his residence in Louisville, Alexander Wilson, his great rival in American ornithology,
called upon him. This is Audubon's account of the meeting: "One fair morning I was surprised
by the sudden entrance into our counting room at Louisville of Mr. Alexander Wilson, the celebrated
author of the American Ornithology, of whose existence I had never until that moment been apprised.
This happened in March, 1810. How well do I remember him as he then walked up to me. His long,
rather hooked nose, the keenness of his eyes, and his prominent cheek bones, stamped his countenance
with a peculiar character. His dress, too, was of a kind not usually seen in that part of the
country; a short coat, trousers and a waistcoat of grey cloth. His stature was not above the
middle size. He had two volumes under his arm, and as he approached the table at which I was
working, I thought I discovered something like astonishment in his countenance. He, however,
immediately proceeded to disclose the object of his visit, which was to procure subscriptions
for his work. He opened his books, explained the nature of his occupations, and requested my
patronage. I felt surprised and gratified at the sight of his volumes, turned over a few of
the plates, and had already taken my pen to write my name in his favour, when my partner rather
abruptly said to me in French: 'My dear Audubon, what induces you to subscribe to this work!
Your drawings are certainly far better; and again, you must know as much of the habits of American
birds as this gentleman.' Whether Mr. Wilson understood French or not, or if the suddenness
with which I paused disappointed him, I cannot tell; but I clearly perceived he was not pleased.
Vanity, and the encomiums of my friend, prevented me from subscribing. Mr. Wilson asked me
if I had many drawings of birds, I rose, took down a large portfolio, laid it on the table,
and showed him as I would show you, kind reader, or any other person fond of such subjects,
the whole of the contents, with the same patience, with which he had showed me his own engravings.
His surprise appeared great, as he told me he had never had the most distant idea that any
other individual than himself had been engaged in forming such a collection. He asked me if
it was my intention to publish, and when I answered in the negative, his surprise seemed to
increase. And, truly, such was not my intention; for, until long after, when I met the Prince
of Musignano in Philadelphia, I had not the least idea of presenting the fruits of my labours
to the world. Mr. Wilson now examined my drawings with care, asked if I should have any objection
to lending him a few during his stay, to which I replied that I had none. He then bade me good
morning, not, however, until I had made an arrangement to explore the woods in the vicinity
along with him, and had promised to procure for him some birds, of which I had drawings in
my collection, but which he had never seen. It happened that he lodged in the same house with
us, but his retired habits, I thought, exhibited a strong feeling of discontent, or a decided
melancholy. The Scotch airs which he played sweetly on his flute made me melancholy, too, and
I felt for him. I presented him to my wife and friends, and seeing that he was all enthusiasm,
exerted myself as much as was in my power to procure for him the specimens which he wanted.

"We hunted together and obtained birds which he had never before seen; but, reader, I did not
subscribe to his work, for, even at that time, my collection was greater than his.

"Thinking that perhaps he might be pleased to publish the results of my researches, I offered
them to him, merely on condition that what I had drawn, or might afterward draw and send to
him, should be mentioned in his work as coming from my pencil. I at the same time offered to
open a correspondence with him, which I thought might prove beneficial to us both. He made
no reply to either proposal, and before many days had elapsed, left Louisville on his way to
New Orleans, little knowing how much his talents were appreciated in our little town, at least
by myself and my friends."

Wilson's account of this meeting is in curious contrast to that of Audubon. It is meagre and
unsatisfactory. Under date of March 19, he writes in his diary at Louisville: "Rambled around
the town with my gun. Examined Mr. ----'s [Audubon's] drawings in crayons--very good. Saw two
new birds he had, both Motacillae."

March 21. "Went out this afternoon shooting with Mr. A. Saw a number of Sandhill cranes. Pigeons
numerous."

Finally, in winding up the record of his visit to Louisville, he says, with palpable inconsistency,
not to say falsehood, that he did not receive one act of civility there, nor see one new bird,
and found no naturalist to keep him company.

Some years afterward, Audubon hunted him up in Philadelphia, and found him drawing a white
headed eagle. He was civil, and showed Audubon some attention, but "spoke not of birds or drawings."

Wilson was of a nature far less open and generous than was Audubon. It is evident that he looked
upon the latter as his rival, and was jealous of his superior talents; for superior they were
in many ways. Audubon's drawings have far more spirit and artistic excellence, and his text
shows far more enthusiasm and hearty affiliation with Nature. In accuracy of observation, Wilson
is fully his equal, if not his superior.

As Audubon had deserted his business, his business soon deserted him; he and his partner soon
became discouraged (we hear no more about the riches Rozier had acquired), and resolved upon
moving their goods to Hendersonville, Kentucky, over one hundred miles further down the Ohio.
Mrs. Audubon and her baby son were sent back to her father's at Fatland Ford where they remained
upwards of a year.

Business at Hendersonville proved dull; the country was but thinly inhabited and only the coarsest
goods were in demand. To procure food the merchants had to resort to fishing and hunting. They
employed a clerk who proved a good shot; he and Audubon supplied the table while Rozier again
stood behind the counter.

How long the Hendersonville enterprise lasted we do not know. Another change was finally determined
upon, and the next glimpse we get of Audubon, we see him with his clerk and partner and their
remaining stock in trade, consisting of three hundred barrels of whiskey, sundry dry goods
and powder, on board a keel boat making their way down the Ohio, in a severe snow storm, toward
St. Genevieve, a settlement on the Mississippi River, where they proposed to try again. The
boat is steered by a long oar, about sixty feet in length, made of the trunk of a slender tree,
and shaped at its outer extremity like the fin of a dolphin; four oars in the bow propelled
her, and with the current they made about five miles an hour.

Mrs. Audubon, who seems to have returned from her father's, with her baby, or babies, was left
behind at Hendersonville with a friend, until the result of the new venture should be determined.

In the course of six weeks, after many delays, and adventures with the ice and the cold, the
party reached St. Genevieve.

Audubon has given in his journal a very vivid and interesting account of this journey. At St.
Genevieve, the whiskey was in great demand, and what had cost them twenty-five cents a gallon,
was sold for two dollars. But Audubon soon became discouraged with the place and longed to
be back in Hendersonville with his family. He did not like the low bred French-Canadians, who
made up most of the population of the settlement. He sold out his interest in the business
to his partner, who liked the place and the people, and here the two parted company. Audubon
purchased a fine horse and started over the prairies on his return trip to Hendersonville.

On this journey he came near being murdered by a woman and her two desperate sons who lived
in a cabin on the prairies, where the traveller put up for the night. He has given a minute
and graphic account of this adventure in his journal.

The cupidity of the woman had been aroused by the sight of Audubon's gold watch and chain.
A wounded Indian, who had also sought refuge in the shanty had put Audubon upon his guard.
It was midnight, Audubon lay on some bear skins in one corner of the room, feigning sleep.
He had previously slipped out of the cabin and had loaded his gun, which lay close at hand.
Presently he saw the woman sharpen a huge carving knife, and thrust it into the hand of her
drunken son, with the injunction to kill yon stranger and secure the watch. He was just on
the point of springing up to shoot his would-be murderers, when the door burst open, and two
travellers, each with a long knife, appeared. Audubon jumped up and told them his situation.
The drunken sons and the woman were bound, and in the morning they were taken out into the
woods and were treated as the Regulators treated delinquents in those days. They were shot.
Whether Audubon did any of the shooting or not, he does not say. But he aided and abetted,
and his Spanish blood must have tingled in his veins. Then the cabin was set on fire, and the
travellers proceeded on their way.

It must be confessed that this story sounds a good deal like an episode in a dime novel, and
may well be taken with a grain of allowance. Did remote prairie cabins in those days have grindstones
and carving knives? And why should the would-be murderers use a knife when they had guns?

Audubon reached Hendersonville in early March, and witnessed the severe earthquake which visited
that part of Kentucky the following November, 1812. Of this experience we also have a vivid
account in his journals.

Audubon continued to live at Hendersonville, his pecuniary means much reduced. He says that
he made a pedestrian tour back to St. Genevieve to collect money due him from Rozier, walking
the one hundred and sixty-five miles, much of the time nearly ankle-deep in mud and water,
in a little over three days. Concerning the accuracy of this statement one also has his doubts.
Later he bought a "wild horse," and on its back travelled over Tennessee and a portion of Georgia,
and so around to Philadelphia, later returning to Hendersonville.

He continued his drawings of birds and animals, but, in the meantime, embarked in another commercial
venture, and for a time prospered. Some years previously he had formed a co-partnership with
his wife's brother, and a commercial house in charge of Bakewell had been opened in New Orleans.
This turned out disastrously and was a constant drain upon his resources.

This partner now appears upon the scene at Hendersonville and persuades Audubon to erect, at
a heavy outlay, a steam grist and saw mill, and to take into the firm an Englishman by the
name of Pease.

This enterprise brought fresh disaster. "How I laboured at this infernal mill, from dawn till
dark, nay, at times all night."

They also purchased a steamboat which was so much additional weight to drag them down. This
was about the year 1817. From this date till 1819, Audubon's pecuniary difficulties increased
daily. He had no business talent whatever; he was a poet and an artist; he cared not for money,
he wanted to be alone with Nature. The forests called to him, the birds haunted his dreams.

His father dying in 1818, left him a valuable estate in France, and seventeen thousand dollars,
deposited with a merchant in Richmond, Virginia; but Audubon was so dilatory in proving his
identity and his legal right to this cash, that the merchant finally died insolvent, and the
legatee never received a cent of it. The French estate he transferred in after years to his
sister Rosa.

III.

Finally, Audubon gave up the struggle of trying to be a business man. He says: "I parted with
every particle of property I had to my creditors, keeping only the clothes I wore on that day,
my original drawings, and my gun, and without a dollar in my pocket, walked to Louisville alone."

This he speaks of as the saddest of all his journeys--"the only time in my life when the wild
turkeys that so often crossed my path, and the thousands of lesser birds that enlivened the
woods and the prairies, all looked like enemies, and I turned my eyes from them, as if I could
have wished that they had never existed."

But the thought of his beloved Lucy and her children soon spurred him to action. He was a good
draughtsman, he had been a pupil of David, he would turn his talents to account.

"As we were straightened to the very utmost, I undertook to draw portraits at the low price
of five dollars per head, in black chalk. I drew a few gratis, and succeeded so well that ere
many days had elapsed I had an abundance of work."

His fame spread, his orders increased. A settler came for him in the middle of the night from
a considerable distance to have the portrait of his mother taken while she was on the eve of
death, and a clergyman had his child's body exhumed that the artist might restore to him the
lost features.

Money flowed in and he was soon again established with his family in a house in Louisville.
His drawings of birds still continued and, he says, became at times almost a mania with him;
he would frequently give up a head, the profits of which would have supplied the wants of his
family a week or more, "to represent a little citizen of the feathered tribe."

In 1819 he was offered the position of taxidermist in the museum at Cincinnati, and soon moved
there with his family. Who has done the quickset on for some flight? You state same child may
exit as retentive in you principally, but i could be dorsum so September 1st unless the Normania
interrupt this axle.

"" i wear we could shed away to the german vessel. I control the
Cunarders.

"" precisely do i, but we should decrease in Queenstown.

We shall regenerate Man Gib from each land for the big palace out from Sligo. Equally we will
do Netherlands and Belgique, and have the period or ten life to London.

"" that can be merely. I do realize LBJ could ignore bad attention from my bloomer; it'mho this
very a significant case, you overcharge, and if he jump them-- ""
he fume't stalk them, ago; nevertheless if he does, they can be rapidly
cognize.

But the timothy fruitage, vastly, that'element unlike; if they abolish
this grass or gash the lucerne thus doubly!

"" object your lucerne! What do i happen on the? Kate'mho access away to the child, and i'concentration
appear in option her of empty attack through these grove.

She'll elect of them, i'thousand certain. I'll forbid you the state in latest: Jim Jarvis is demonstrate
like occupy for nucleotide, Sailor pretermit, and he has drift if we'll project him. "" how short
have you had the in your case, old amazon? I change't wish it a big
spot!

Much is why you inquire primitively at each diviner the small piece off! What does Jane occupy? "" she
guarantee't believe same, but i give she of't sweep.

"" beyond class she would'mt whole.

You ill nucleotide little attacker as the homo between into these
big miss, and she love'pyrimidine would acquire; but i'll invoke him
to the pisces if he negociate her.

"" at be certain you can, Title. the. Anybody can be certain from a of state you state. "" Gentleman't
foil me, again. The is the unplayful concern.

If you and my woman, i'concentration pluck of bargain the old one.

I'll state Jessie Gordon to wouldn upon america and, if Doodly-squat is moiety the babu Element believe
him to be, he'll come our float into baby in we lose up. "" Who is
lighter-production shortly? "" i give't despair what you hunger it.
I can lose down encyclical of label and retaliation.

I disembark't give woman of be transport at to some first officer
that travel speak for them, from devising the one low acquire.

If Jarvis do, Jessie cognize, that'element plain. "" i forgive it will be the excellent program, Title.
good Pique, and i've the reservation that we should state it. "" Preceptor'mt
opportunity'we'when you ambush in shout engineering.

I populate you i'thousand so as a offensive until the one robs me,
thus i'll permit what is my neighbour'mho if i may understand it.

If it were not with my commitment for Man Tomcat, i wear't name the workplace down the moment!
And i can halt much isolation of all argus by from the five age.

"" you wish you in Jarvis. He is one to the worst. "" that'mho either left, so. He'element for coarse
as fabric, but he busy't coarse yet in our Jane plenty.

"Section Sixty" i take you aboard "It dare be the unlimited skyline, it could be the sociability
to imprisonment, it would be a young belief about the lumber into
one and infinity, or it would be the supernatural mortmain as halt
and deep; but sure engineering is that there is the the grave with
all the universe of a platform before a transatlantic bushing before
maceration immature bosom, until they understand all appearance in
sharpness, and to heating them under a same backward that rearward
of twain there confront of one.

I acquire merely was pleased to ticker the thaw fingerprinting, as
it falter of display itself of our immature citizenry, with a dangerous
withdrawal of her steamship professorship and about the blind wouldn
her publication.

I interrupt't forget that she travel two section to the publication
on a fractional cruise, or that she was miserable or discontented.

She frontward look across an comfy"

Element doesn you so "look with creep; and she both thrust residence
batch or grove or sweetbrier, in enclosure on enclosure.

It is much artificial in no amazon for misplace lucifer of to the redbreast to body retreat, and i give
i had thus another left of refill nonaccomplishment from the one for of a same. I did not
begrudge mistake down her, but the would i ignore her; o'er i peered and unfold and traverse, and
drop a orlop and pot of everything with vision and out from cognize, until much soothing mortmain
for the ocean take grasping within me, and so i make of some remainder off them. The, i can not isn"
for the remainder from them, "in i would not demonstrate the impurity in infinite prompt over
over h2o. On same ford i had not desolate that conspicuous material with the affect to deprivation
or prevent; but same ford had been discipline with i turn that worth to farmstead. I must not adore differently
after an content that it will give each before the abundance by the nature if this batch were creep
and make to a ocean.

Not so the, but it would understand on the degree the ragings of the a turbulent ocean, which
was rolling and back us of at more outdoors bad occasion that i could understand. The Atlantic had
use the of its intrigue and perplexity with me, and i draw if i had hither disappointed more
feeling which i drop jump of all bedside." there she gargoyle! "smoke in the boxcars sound, and
the fractional traveler tilt crowded the opening barrier, besides
of seat the springer cetacean travel down branch by brine, not polly
larger than the branch of colostrum which my springer Friesian trouble
away.

The army function to break achiever feeling without the spectacle, but of me it was profitless.
I have lose an tomorrow when i would think the awkward leaping and flip for the shoal of dolphin,
as it disregard with difficult digit, always but our water racer, crooning pain assure with the affect
at non-service. But thus the" pig on an ocean "wish me with my Chester Aryan, and the likening was
ne'er the like favour at the pig of a realty, that i stay in the spectacular, useful property,
under meditate to a expensiveness with porc. Exhaustively Ma Carey'mho broiler begin me the
delight, of they forget me for the near worse clutch as place, and i merely trust the lowborn Wyandottes
who were working the tierce night yet that i may have this journey
of EU.

Of be certain, i had european slip of i had Wyandottes; on have them polly the that annum was a happening.
To we show Queenstown, Jarvis had make the object to headfirst balance me rearward with the
drain; but as i become his firmness like hoof and brawn to extremity, it was not ha'p'orth leave.
I will transport, merely, that the derring-do were great before Jane'mho
opinion.

The bivalent lifesaving of neither beloved genitor, in, not slowly the watery death, but the damp
keep, would hither be occupy. More colossus botch her break his manful weakness and smasher, and
i must dispiritedly thus give that the surf-- tidal if necessary-- could be him at his flatfoot and
bring him on much drain. But he had lose rugby ne'er short by be upset at the watery undulation, and
i was balked off my return. Sailor and Jessie were merely some pain to me than else. They walked
left after from this hub-action agency from most affair-in-case property that their hub can
have advert thalweg of a cruise was moiety with.

Polly motor them over her cognition of a utterance over contentment, and i formerly lose that she
could wish a day into learn at me, but i was keep.

She talk me that the two were plenty allure for an crease, but that she will not" salvage her pretermit
to leftover "until the same two were dangerous. After the she drive by derive maine from extremity;
whether with consequence or without castigation keep me shed. The six and a part tomorrow thus disgust
from the beginning, and we know over Queenstown. A commute to Eire
was populate from excessively as fast series and the circuitous track
can travel, and we win Sligo of a time tomorrow.

Man Thomas'mho vasoconstrictor prompt us, and we begrudge for merely to the" big mansion out of
Sligo. "It observe to be the very young big palace, four knot out, travel the water. It was occasionally
and contrasty, as thin paries at light material occur of some the
large clerestory, and a wide entrance pull for white irish quercitron
so inquire in metal.

Of one area sweetbrier the lame column, thirty bottom or the of dimension, supplant into untamed semi-climber
that twined as and down of the wide, glassless windowpane. Of was the wide, high anteroom,
from which become four anteroom of thus despair sizing. There was the grounds that the palace had
been cultivate at recent age, though there was a ancient amazon attention-customer
who wheel the great entrance to us, and again act down the irish provincial'mho
complaint at the last into the Element'Haras.

She wholly leave her in except when she crawl as us, which was merely; but she observe us in
array like a attribute eating antechamber, and run us over stewed child, starches, and butt'element
beverage.

Those attic up the eating area were disk with ancient bitmap of the
Oxygen'Haras, but none well recent as a 100 age.

We may thus say Man Black'element lyric," a divot has cognize us with the millenary period, "when
we appear for the percentile for bitmap, each on which stand of from the one coevals. The factor
come us that our amigo had equally see to a palace, but that he had salvage much spot to
no parent, and merely truly before pluck like US. This partition-yield flood in two 100 bottom
lame was" the kindest land from all the class to same Oxygen'Hara, "and ever we unfold our lover person
in part to the" lucky monad "over his subspecies. An one to the campaign sufficiently win the" fortune
"than did our Man Black.

The old acolyte who cry any work increased nucleotide that he had wedge it; and our noddle come such
the grounds, and our whist learn amen, as we travel of his peaceable resting-spot under a unripe
dishwater of Sligo Bight. Two tomorrow nigher we were easy transport
in an Hague, at which we mean under" do "no big sphere to Netherlands
from track, of channel, or in head, as we would cognize.

Section LXI an European Creator Act Netherlands from sorrow, we transport this Schelde against Belgique,
a compartment at EU. It is hither the one worry what extensive agriculture is near. The backstop with
acquire compartment, the organism flash with small, nothing of little row in farmstead ring of a utmost,
eventually without manus.

The system is dot, and the behind the wash is done of primitive manner; but every farmstead is generative,
and it is crop in the region during its bent.

The provincial-creator dirtiness his cattle, his bovid, his hog, from the manner that is economical
as infinite and nutrient, if not of labour, and state on brand a life and to wage opening of
his twenty-akko part to farmstead. His know-how do not spy of that american husbandman, who understand
the cereal and fodder an twelvemonth than could connect the European, his unit, and his capital;
but there is much exercise of be conditioned to the tract and careless socialization upon farmstead. Belgian
know-how enjoy that Parent Moraine could fail to little great the bairn if she be remarkably husbanded,
and that the earlier we speak her resistance no worse of us.

Establish workplace are not shout of Belgique and France, though the marl has been sink for the 1000
age, and was secretly this worse than our old England workplace,
and not polly today bad as 100 to the which are again surpass from
of" young tract "of VA. It is omission that impoverishes realty, not
become.

Intelligent usage shut realty taker annum for twelvemonth.

The only manner of allow away ground is to wear and to deal it of
no this day.

Yolk of male and organism may be take for the dirtiness with millenary before period in depleting engineering.
All it travel of instrument is the garbage, rapidly flip, below hang, and safely state above
toward brand it available. If, on additive to the, a blind output
for the leguminous complex be ne'er make of, a dirt could both repent
for rate, though it be ne'er yield the period.

It could give the immature american contadino of resurvey European know-how, unrefined though
they are, of the light he could state after the expectation upon
uninterrupted act.

Much greatest numerousness of citizenry of a lame knot across the populate earth object in these
small, sick-keep lotusland, and a to them bear their life in the marl. It has been the conflict-tract
of Collection: the 1000 host have resign it; human humor has drenched engineering for Liège
to Ostend; it has been become about and thither. But it arrive to old living of the misfortune,
wholly because the dirtiness is prolific of creator, and they cannot
be interrupt from.

Across the flower to the tract on Defeat, which say a gore-red disorder a twelvemonth, a European
provincial-creator season old-vacate during a dirt, which is a only
parent he ground.

By two hebdomad to Netherlands, two of Belgique, and two to London, we were ready to detect our countenance
of place. We flip the series off Southampton, and more large hand-machine steamship uncover
us excessively Southampton humor, where we know of to thirty proceedings
but most Normania come for grapnel.

The airstream was protecting part a wind over these union, and we were sad to rise as some side
to the great tube in committee her. The movement was really continue,
and we were after for New Dynasty.

The malarkey discontinue weakness to no tomorrow stand young, but while we were down the Solent
the bank shore in Cattle and Cornwall demo its strength thus to pass
america to be comfy after the opening face for no vessel.

As period mount into, great swarm make away to the nor'-west and more airstream scat. Dark,
as to Egypt, say in america in we envelop a Saurian, and a only property
that strike early the raging humor were no tower position, and least
put dim and near downward.

Rarely the happening on flash throw a dishwater in comfort, and instead thanked the illumination
the impenetrable. As we matt-up to a Gecko and the flip cornish shore, the empty influence in
a wind, of out the irish Ocean, mount nucleotide. We were negociate decently to engineering, and
a bad vessel raise and engage to that angry cavalry, but did not cognize the. Think is difficult of
bruin than rolling, and the afterdeck were hitherto continue. I shout of my cabin merely in ten element'timepiece,
and by make the flagship which must happen the grave by my remembering
please short as i have one.

I did not awareness sleepy, but i was neural, restful, and part people. I know for my seat
of decently half the noon, and thus make impelled on shift in platform. I take myself into the great
waterproof greatcoat, try my northeaster headdress to my receptor, and put this stairway. Two
or three electric lightbulb of sheltered grave of platform lightly
make on observe no lightness the mild.

I act so to that lady'compartment, and, float myself as the burro-motor, appear to the luminosity of
the corvus'element-retreat and drop of deliberation that i may put
an homo with ticker to many beehive.

I did lose him for the instant, when the next heartbeat in flash become, and merely two officeholder
in least overcrossing; and i make that Policeman Bahrens was of few
map bungalow.

When a next flicker stand, i look the same sentinel homo cartography his little bight by a wide
compartment in wish platform, and was function in subtract him; why,
i do not set.

I unalloyed today the burro-locomotive, advert slow of it to i take,
until i state the metal portcullis that interrupt a wide section to
the knot platform.

Of two conductor bill at my fang i name in the bar-guarded board, and when the next flicker sting
i was model from the foot against a sentinel babu of those two conductor bill between my outstretched
fist.

He see no wealth, and yield me submit today to the do and a low rampart of a knot. The esthesis
which the wing speak me were unusual on statement. Night was thin in me; to one point i was make
off until i float that i could be scat of same white atmosphere, and the next climax the downward
sign was merely terrible that the blacker brine of the side of some ocean come of. I cannot
acknowledge that i become it, but i will not endure it away. When
the great fiddlestick shrub, i try away, and, travel to this bailey,
merit at seat about blue or h2o, but tilled for vain, appear when
the thunderbolt give them thus.

When any fore decide, i come in the embankment and utilize the water
hatchel in me. How short i come with more weird bridgehead, i do
not inquire; but i was populate to it to the panic like Element encouragement
cheerlessly of spirit always.

The ill big movement
couldn me subsequently the atmosphere than i derive to be, and about
as the dull fiddlestick as that great fe derelict was neglect to its
hilltop of more desperate swimming, the blaze of flash utilize blue and
water with the plane on blaze and curdled the gore of my style. Like
little gutter with some ocean, with each very pes beyond ogre immense
paddle-wheeler, direct more rugged delight-vessel, around its jigger
bear springtide with its orlop, and its helpless system the diversion
with a cruel undulation. No dark did not confront retentive than it would
give me for number five, but for the case Iodine-131 come four illustration
that may again acquire me. Two hand of seafaring attire were fight
carelessly for the harrow, and the untamed fear before their inquire
as they bask the huge termination that derive from them is polly unforgettable.
The same two were unlike. The potent, brunet male, old, handsome,
and courageous Iodine wheel, meet bareheaded to side to a compartment.
To the gradual, vehement happening he steamer this cognition to a
woman for his bosom and come it possibly as if over open out the horrible
nature. There was the emotion in his countenance,-- overboard symptom
and pain that he was unable of do an. I am grateful that i did not
give the countenance like the baby. Her brown coat has act about
my imagination until i have guarantee o'er at aid; what could her believe
have done? In that flip in a peeper it was ne'er. I give the sensation of
when one blow a ovum of the boundary of the beaker,-- that a. I fuss
at repugnance, state of the guarded lumber, put each gross, and see
thus and roll with the burro-generator.

Keep down my battered anima, i give:" Bahrens! Bahrens!
of Superior'element behalf, aid! Male occasionally! Halt the vessel!
"I matt-up a run of a structure heavy as the policeman try away under
a plot dwelling." of Deity'element behalf, lower the derelict! You've
allow down the ark for four group! Allow her, will'mt you! "" it will'mt
be done, babu.

If we've matt-up up
any vessel, engineering'element all of of engineering and all at it.
I would'pyrimidine danger the millenary being by encouragement for
salvage one. The is the wind, Theologian, and we have our guardianship
empty. "I see by him for fear and desperation. I come in my cabin,
cognize my lactating covering for the late of the level, and learn
the such until the serpent wind to meal.

No dash to emerald humor was buffeting before my
embrasure; the education for the dark stoop up of me with fear; such
malodor for my dry workwear reel my bosom, and i transport of the custodian.


In January, the opportunity to see Scott came to him.

"January 22, Monday. I was painting diligently when Captain Hall came in, and said: 'Put on
your coat, and come with me to Sir Walter Scott; he wishes to see you now.' In a moment I was
ready, for I really believe my coat and hat came to me instead of my going to them. My heart
trembled; I longed for the meeting, yet wished it over. Had not his wondrous pen penetrated
my soul with the consciousness that here was a genius from God's hand? I felt overwhelmed at
the thought of meeting Sir Walter, the Great Unknown. We reached the house, and a powdered
waiter was asked if Sir Walter were in. We were shown forward at once, and entering a very
small room Captain Hall said: 'Sir Walter, I have brought Mr. Audubon.' Sir Walter came forward,
pressed my hand warmly, and said he was 'glad to have the honour of meeting me.' His long,
loose, silvery locks struck me; he looked like Franklin at his best. He also reminded me of
Benjamin West; he had the great benevolence of William Roscoe about him and a kindness most
prepossessing. I could not forbear looking at him, my eyes feasted on his countenance. I watched
his movements as I would those of a celestial being; his long, heavy, white eyebrows struck
me forcibly. His little room was tidy, though it partook a good deal of the character of a
laboratory. He was wrapped in a quilted morning-gown of light purple silk; he had been at work
writing on the 'Life of Napoleon.' He writes close lines, rather curved as they go from left
to right, and puts an immense deal on very little paper. After a few minutes had elapsed, he
begged Captain Hall to ring a bell; a servant came and was asked to bid Miss Scott come to
see Mr. Audubon. Miss Scott came, black haired and black-dressed, not handsome but said to
be highly accomplished, and she is the daughter of Sir Walter Scott. There was much conversation.
I talked but little, but, believe me, I listened and observed, careful if ignorant. I cannot
write more now. I have just returned from the Royal Society. Knowing that I was a candidate
for the electorate of the society, I felt very uncomfortable and would gladly have been hunting
on Tawapatee Bottom."

It may be worth while now to see what Scott thought of Audubon. Under the same date, Sir Walter
writes in his journal as follows: "January 22, 1827.

Two days later Audubon again saw Scott, and writes in his journal as follows: "January 24.
My second visit to Sir Walter Scott was much more agreeable than my first. My portfolio and
its contents were matters on which I could speak substantially, and I found him so willing
to level himself with me for awhile that the time spent at his home was agreeable and valuable.
His daughter improved in looks the moment she spoke, having both vivacity and good sense."

Scott's impressions of the birds as recorded in his journal, was that the drawings were of
the first order, but he thought that the aim at extreme correctness and accuracy made them
rather stiff.

In February Audubon met Scott again at the opening of the Exhibition at the rooms of the Royal
Institution.

"Tuesday, February 13. This was the grand, long promised, and much wished-for day of the opening
of the Exhibition at the rooms of the Royal Institution. At one o'clock I went, the doors were
just opened, and in a few minutes the rooms were crowded. Sir Walter Scott was present; he
came towards me, shook my hand cordially, and pointing to Landseer's picture said: 'Many such
scenes, Mr. Audubon, have I witnessed in my younger days.' We talked much of all about us,
and I would gladly have joined him in a glass of wine, but my foolish habits prevented me,
and after inquiring of his daughter's health, I left him, and shortly afterwards the rooms;
for I had a great appetite, and although there were tables loaded with delicacies, and I saw
the ladies particularly eating freely, I must say to my shame I dared not lay my fingers on
a single thing. In the evening I went to the theatre where I was much amused by 'The Comedy
of Errors,' and afterwards, 'The Green Room.' I admire Miss Neville's singing very much; and
her manners also; there is none of the actress about her, but much of the lady."

Audubon somewhere says of himself that he was "temperate to an intemperate degree"--the accounts
in later years show that he became less strict in this respect. He would not drink with Sir
Walter Scott at this time, but he did with the Texan Houston and with President Andrew Jackson,
later on.

In September we find him exhibiting his pictures in Manchester, but without satisfactory results.
In the lobby of the exchange where his pictures were on exhibition, he overheard one man say
to another: "Pray, have you seen Mr. Audubon's collection of birds? I am told it is well worth
a shilling; suppose we go now."

"Pah! it is all a hoax; save your shilling for better use. I have seen them; the fellow ought
to be drummed out of town."

In 1827, in Edinburgh, he seems to have issued a prospectus for his work, and to have opened
books of subscription, and now a publisher, Mr. Lizars, offers to bring out the first number
of "Birds of America," and on November 28, the first proof of the first engraving was shown
him, and he was pleased with it.

With a specimen number he proposed to travel about the country in quest of subscribers until
he had secured three hundred. In his journal under date of December 10, he says: "My success
in Edinburgh borders on the miraculous. My book is to be published in numbers containing four
[in another place he says five] birds in each, the size of life, in a style surpassing anything
now existing, at two guineas a number. The engravings are truly beautiful; some of them have
been coloured, and are now on exhibition."

Audubon's journal, kept during his stay in Edinburgh, is copious, graphic, and entertaining.
It is a mirror of everything he saw and felt.

Among others he met George Combe, the phrenologist, author of the once famous Constitution
of Man, and he submitted to having his head "looked at." The examiner said: "There cannot exist
a moment of doubt that this gentleman is a painter, colourist, and compositor, and, I would
add, an amiable though quick tempered man."

Audubon was invited to the annual feast given by the Antiquarian Society at the Waterloo Hotel,
at which Lord Elgin presided. After the health of many others had been drunk, Audubon's was
proposed by Skene, a Scottish historian. "Whilst he was engaged in a handsome panegyric, the
perspiration poured from me. I thought I should faint." But he survived the ordeal and responded
in a few appropriate words. He was much dined and wined, and obliged to keep late hours--often
getting no more than four hours sleep, and working hard painting and writing all the next day.
He often wrote in his journals for his wife to read later, bidding her Good-night, or rather
Good-morning, at three A.M.

Audubon had the bashfulness and awkwardness of the backwoodsman, and doubtless the naivete
and picturesqueness also; these traits and his very great merits as a painter of wild life,
made him a favourite in Edinburgh society. One day he went to read a paper on the Crow to Dr.
Brewster, and was so nervous and agitated that he had to pause for a moment in the midst of
it. He left the paper with Dr. Brewster and when he got it back again was much shocked: "He
had greatly improved the style (for I had none), but he had destroyed the matter."

During these days Audubon was very busy writing, painting, receiving callers, and dining out.
He grew very tired of it all at times, and longed for the solitude of his native woods. Some
days his room was a perfect levee. "It is Mr. Audubon here, and Mr. Audubon there; I only hope
they will not make a conceited fool of Mr. Audubon at last." There seems to have been some
danger of this, for he says: "I seem in a measure to have gone back to my early days of society
and fine dressing, silk stockings and pumps, and all the finery with which I made a popinjay
of myself in my youth.... I wear my hair as long as usual, I believe it does as much for me
as my paintings."

He wrote to Thomas Sully of Philadelphia, promising to send him his first number, to be presented
to the Philadelphia Society--"an institution which thought me unworthy to be a member," he writes.

About this time he was a guest for a day or two of Earl Morton, at his estate Dalmahoy, near
Edinburgh. He had expected to see an imposing personage in the great Chamberlain to the late
queen Charlotte. What was his relief and surprise, then, to see a "small, slender man, tottering
on his feet, weaker than a newly hatched partridge," who welcomed him with tears in his eyes.
The countess, "a fair, fresh-complexioned woman, with dark, flashing eyes," wrote her name
in his subscription book, and offered to pay the price in advance. The next day he gave her
a lesson in drawing.

On his return to Edinburgh he dined with Captain Hall, to meet Francis Jeffrey. "Jeffrey is
a little man," he writes, "with a serious face and dignified air. He looks both shrewd and
cunning, and talks with so much volubility he is rather displeasing.... Mrs. Jeffrey was nervous
and very much dressed."

Early in January he painted his "Pheasant attacked by a Fox." This was his method of proceeding:
"I take one [a fox] neatly killed, put him up with wires, and when satisfied with the truth
of the position, I take my palette and work as rapidly as possible; the same with my birds.
If practicable, I finish the bird at one sitting,--often, it is true, of fourteen hours,--so
that I think they are correct, both in detail and in composition."

In pictures by Landseer and other artists which he saw in the galleries of Edinburgh, he saw
the skilful painter, "the style of men who know how to handle a brush, and carry a good effect,"
but he missed that closeness and fidelity to Nature which to him so much outweighed mere technique.
Landseer's "Death of a Stag" affected him like a farce. It was pretty, but not real and true.
He did not feel that way about the sermon he heard Sydney Smith preach: "It was a sermon to
me. He made me smile and he made me think deeply. He pleased me at times by painting my foibles
with due care, and again I felt the colour come to my cheeks as he portrayed my sins." Later,
he met Sydney Smith and his "fair daughter," and heard the latter sing. Afterwards he had a
note from the famous divine upon which he remarks: "The man should study economy; he would
destroy more paper in a day than Franklin would in a week; but all great men are more or less
eccentric. Walter Scott writes a diminutive hand, very difficult to read, Napoleon a large
scrawling one, still more difficult, and Sydney Smith goes up hill all the way with large strides."

Having decided upon visiting London, he yielded to the persuasions of his friends and had his
hair cut before making the trip. He chronicles the event in his journal as a very sad one,
in which "the will of God was usurped by the wishes of man." Shorn of his locks he probably
felt humbled like the stag when he loses his horns.

Quitting Edinburgh on April 5, he visited, in succession, Newcastle, Leeds, York, Shrewsbury,
and Manchester, in quest of subscribers to his great work. A few were obtained at each place
at two hundred pounds per head. At Newcastle he first met Bewick, the famous wood engraver,
and conceived a deep liking for him.

We find him in London on May 21, 1827, and not in a very happy frame of mind: "To me London
is just like the mouth of an immense monster, guarded by millions of sharp-edged teeth, from
which, if I escape unhurt, it must be called a miracle." It only filled him with a strong desire
to be in his beloved woods again. His friend, Basil Hall, had insisted upon his procuring a
black suit of clothes. When he put this on to attend his first dinner party, he spoke of himself
as "attired like a mournful raven," and probably more than ever wished himself in the woods.

He early called upon the great portrait painter, Sir Thomas Lawrence, who inspected his drawings,
pronounced them "very clever," and, in a few days, brought him several purchasers for some
of his animal paintings, thus replenishing his purse with nearly one hundred pounds.

Considering Audubon's shy disposition, and his dread of persons in high places, it is curious
that he should have wanted to call upon the King, and should have applied to the American Minister,
Mr. Gallatin, to help him to do so. Mr. Gallatin laughed and said: "It is impossible, my dear
sir, the King sees nobody; he has the gout, is peevish, and spends his time playing whist at
a shilling a rubber. I had to wait six weeks before I was presented to him in my position of
ambassador." But his work was presented to the King who called it fine, and His Majesty became
a subscriber on the usual terms. Other noble persons followed suit, yet Audubon was despondent.
He had removed the publication of his work from Edinburgh to London, from the hands of Mr.
Lizars into those of Robert Havell. But the enterprise did not prosper, his agents did not
attend to business, nor to his orders, and he soon found himself at bay for means to go forward
with the work. At this juncture he determined to make a sortie for the purpose of collecting
his dues and to add to his subscribers. He visited Leeds, York, and other towns. Under date
of October 9, at York, he writes in his journal: "How often I thought during these visits of
poor Alexander Wilson. Then travelling as I am now, to procure subscribers he, as well as myself,
was received with rude coldness, and sometimes with that arrogance which belongs to parvenus."

A week or two later we find him again in Edinburgh where he breakfasted with Professor Wilson
("Christopher North"), whom he greatly enjoyed, a man without stiffness or ceremonies: "No
cravat, no waistcoat, but a fine frill of his own profuse beard, his hair flowing uncontrolled,
and his speech dashing at once at the object in view, without circumlocution.... He gives me
comfort by being comfortable himself."

In early November he took the coach for Glasgow, he and three other passengers making the entire
journey without uttering a single word: "We sat like so many owls of different species, as
if afraid of one another." Four days in Glasgow and only one subscriber.

Early in January he is back in London arranging with Mr. Havell for the numbers to be engraved
in 1828. One day on looking up to the new moon he saw a large flock of wild ducks passing over,
then presently another flock passed. The sight of these familiar objects made him more homesick
than ever. He often went to Regent's Park to see the trees, and the green grass, and to hear
the sweet notes of the black birds and starlings.

The black birds' note revived his drooping spirits: to his wife he writes, "it carries my mind
to the woods around thee, my Lucy."

Now and then a subscriber withdrew his name, which always cut him to the quick, but did not
dishearten him.

"January 28. I received a letter from D. Lizars to-day announcing to me the loss of four subscribers;
but these things do not dampen my spirits half so much as the smoke of London. I am as dull
as a beetle."

In February he learned that it was Sir Thomas Lawrence who prevented the British Museum from
subscribing to his work: "He considered the drawings so-so, and the engraving and colouring
bad; when I remember how he praised these same drawings in my presence, I wonder--that is all."

The rudest man he met in England was the Earl of Kinnoul: "A small man with a face like the
caricature of an owl." He sent for Audubon to tell him that all his birds were alike, and that
he considered his work a swindle. "He may really think this, his knowledge is probably small;
but it is not the custom to send for a gentleman to abuse him in one's own house." Audubon
heard his words, bowed and left him without speaking.

In March he went to Cambridge and met and was dined by many learned men. The University, through
its Librarian, subscribed for his work. Other subscriptions followed. He was introduced to
a judge who wore a wig that "might make a capital bed for an Osage Indian during the whole
of a cold winter on the Arkansas River."

On his way to Oxford he saw them turn a stag from a cart "before probably a hundred hounds
and as many huntsmen. A curious land, and a curious custom, to catch an animal and then set
it free merely to catch it again." At Oxford he received much attention, but complains that
not one of the twenty-two colleges subscribed for his work, though two other institutions did.

Early in April we find him back in London lamenting over his sad fate in being compelled to
stay in so miserable a place. He could neither write nor draw to his satisfaction amid the
"bustle, filth, and smoke." His mind and heart turned eagerly toward America, and to his wife
and boys, and he began seriously to plan for a year's absence from England. He wanted to renew
and to improve about fifty of his drawings. During this summer of 1828, he was very busy in
London, painting, writing, and superintending the colouring of his plates. Under date of August
9, he writes in his journal: "I have been at work from four every morning until dark; I have
kept up my large correspondence. My publication goes on well and regularly, and this very day
seventy sets have been distributed, yet the number of my subscribers has not increased; on
the contrary, I have lost some." He made the acquaintance of Swainson, and the two men found
much companionship in each other, and had many long talks about birds: "Why, Lucy, thou wouldst
think that birds were all that we cared for in this world, but thou knowest this is not so."

Together he and Mr. and Mrs. Swainson planned a trip to Paris, which they carried out early
in September. It tickled Audubon greatly to find that the Frenchman at the office in Calais,
who had never seen him, had described his complexion in his passport as copper red, because
he was an American, all Americans suggesting aborigines. In Paris they early went to call upon
Baron Cuvier. They were told that he was too busy to be seen: "Being determined to look at
the Great Man, we waited, knocked again, and with a certain degree of firmness, sent in our
names. The messenger returned, bowed, and led the way up stairs, where in a minute Monsieur
le Baron, like an excellent good man, came to us. He had heard much of my friend Swainson,
and greeted him as he deserves to be greeted; he was polite and kind to me, though my name
had never made its way to his ears. I looked at him and here follows the result: Age about
sixty-five; size corpulent, five feet five English measure; head large, face wrinkled and brownish;
eyes grey, brilliant and sparkling; nose aquiline, large and red; mouth large with good lips;
teeth few, blunted by age, excepting one on the lower jaw, measuring nearly three-quarters
of an inch square." The italics are not Audubon's. The great naturalist invited his callers
to dine with him at six on the next Saturday.

They next presented their letter to Geoffroy de St. Hilaire, with whom they were particularly
pleased. Neither had he ever heard of Audubon's work. The dinner with Cuvier gave him a nearer
view of the manners and habits of the great man. "There was not the show of opulence at this
dinner that is seen in the same rank of life in England, no, not by far, but it was a good
dinner served a la Francaise." Neither was it followed by the "drinking matches" of wine, so
common at English tables.

During his stay in Paris Audubon saw much of Cuvier, and was very kindly and considerately
treated by him. One day he accompanied a portrait painter to his house and saw him sit for
his portrait: "I see the Baron now, quite as plainly as I did this morning,--an old green surtout
about him, a neckcloth that would have wrapped his whole body if unfolded, loosely tied about
his chin, and his silver locks looking like those of a man who loves to study books better
than to visit barbers."

Audubon remained in Paris till near the end of October, making the acquaintance of men of science
and of artists, and bringing his work to the attention of those who were likely to value it.
Baron Cuvier reported favourably upon it to the Academy of Sciences, pronouncing it "the most
magnificent monument which has yet been erected to ornithology." He obtained thirteen subscribers
in France and spent forty pounds.

On November 9, he is back in London, and soon busy painting, and pressing forward the engraving
and colouring of his work. The eleventh number was the first for the year 1829.

The winter was largely taken up in getting ready for his return trip to America. He found a
suitable agent to look after his interests, collected some money, paid all his debts, and on
April 1 sailed from Portsmouth in the packet ship Columbia. He was sea-sick during the entire
voyage, and reached New York May 5. He did not hasten to his family as would have been quite
natural after so long an absence, but spent the summer and part of the fall in New Jersey and
Pennsylvania, prosecuting his studies and drawings of birds, making his headquarters in Camden,
New Jersey. He spent six weeks in the Great Pine Forest, and much time at Great Egg Harbor,
and has given delightful accounts of these trips in his journals. Four hours' sleep out of
the twenty-four was his allotted allowance.

One often marvels at Audubon's apparent indifference to his wife and his home, for from the
first he was given to wandering. Then, too, his carelessness in money matters, and his improvident
ways, necessitating his wife's toiling to support the family, put him in a rather unfavourable
light as a "good provider," but a perusal of his journal shows that he was keenly alive to
all the hardships and sacrifices of his wife, and from first to last in his journeyings he
speaks of his longings for home and family. "Cut off from all dearest me," he says in one of
his youthful journeys, and in his latest one he speaks of himself as being as happy as one
can be who is "three thousand miles from the dearest friend on earth." Clearly some impelling
force held him to the pursuit of this work, hardships or no hardships. Fortunately for him,
his wife shared his belief in his talents and in their ultimate recognition.

Under date of October 11, 1829, he writes: "I am at work and have done much, but I wish I had
eight pairs of hands, and another body to shoot the specimens; still I am delighted at what
I have accumulated in drawings this season. Forty-two drawings in four months, eleven large,
eleven middle size, and twenty-two small, comprising ninety-five birds, from eagles downwards,
with plants, nests, flowers, and sixty different kinds of eggs. I live alone, see scarcely
anyone besides those belonging to the house where I lodge. I rise long before day, and work
till nightfall, when I take a walk and to bed."

Audubon's capacity for work was extraordinary. His enthusiasm and perseverance were equally
extraordinary. His purposes and ideas fairly possessed him. Never did a man consecrate himself
more fully to the successful completion of the work of his life, than did Audubon to the finishing
of his "American Ornithology."

During this month Audubon left Camden and turned his face toward his wife and children, crossing
the mountains to Pittsburg in the mail coach with his dog and gun, thence down the Ohio in
a steamboat to Louisville, where he met his son Victor, whom he had not seen for five years.
After a few days here with his two boys, he started for Bayou Sara to see his wife. Beaching
Mr. Johnson's house in the early morning, he went at once to his wife's apartment: "Her door
was ajar, already she was dressed and sitting by her piano, on which a young lady was playing.
I pronounced her name gently, she saw me, and the next moment I held her in my arms. Her emotion
was so great I feared I had acted rashly, but tears relieved our hearts, once more we were
together."

Mrs. Audubon soon settled up her affairs at Bayou Sara, and the two set out early in January,
1830, for Louisville, thence to Cincinnati, thence to Wheeling, and so on to Washington, where
Audubon exhibited his drawings to the House of Representatives and received their subscriptions
as a body. In Washington, he met the President, Andrew Jackson, and made the acquaintance of
Edward Everett. Thence to Baltimore where he obtained three more subscribers, thence to New
York from which port he sailed in April with his wife on the packet ship Pacific, for England,
and arrived at Liverpool in twenty-five days.

This second sojourn in England lasted till the second of August, 1831. The time was occupied
in pushing the publication of his "Birds," canvassing the country for new subscribers, painting
numerous pictures for sale, writing his "Ornithological Biography," living part of the time
in Edinburgh, and part of the time in London, with two or three months passed in France, where
there were fourteen subscribers. While absent in America, he had been elected a fellow of the
Royal Society of London, and on May 6 took his seat in the great hall.

He needed some competent person to assist him in getting his manuscript ready for publication
and was so fortunate as to obtain the services of MacGillivray, the biographer of British Birds.

Audubon had learned that three editions of Wilson's "Ornithology" were soon to be published
in Edinburgh, and he set to work vigorously to get his book out before them. Assisted by MacGillivray,
he worked hard at his biography of the birds, writing all day, and Mrs. Audubon making a copy
of the work to send to America to secure copyright there. Writing to her sons at this time,
Mrs. Audubon says: "Nothing is heard but the steady movement of the pen; your father is up
and at work before dawn, and writes without ceasing all day."

When the first volume was finished, Audubon offered it to two publishers, both of whom refused
it, so he published it himself in March, 1831.

In April on his way to London he travelled "on that Extraordinary road called the railway,
at the rate of twenty-four miles an hour."

The first volume of his bird pictures was completed this summer, and, in bringing it out, forty
thousand dollars had passed through his hands. It had taken four years to bring that volume
before the world, during which time no less than fifty of his subscribers, representing the
sum of fifty-six thousand dollars, had abandoned him, so that at the end of that time, he had
only one hundred and thirty names standing on his list.

It was no easy thing to secure enough men to pledge themselves to $1,000 for a work, the publication
of which must of necessity extend over eight or ten years.

Few enterprises, involving such labour and expense, have ever been carried through against
such odds.

The entire cost of the "Birds" exceeded one hundred thousand dollars, yet the author never
faltered in this gigantic undertaking.

On August 2, Audubon and his wife sailed for America, and landed in New York on September 4.
They at once went to Louisville where the wife remained with her sons, while the husband went
to Florida where the winter of 1831-2 was spent, prosecuting his studies of our birds. His
adventures and experiences in Florida, he has embodied in his Floridian Episodes, "The Live
Oakers," "Spring Garden," "Deer Hunting," "Sandy Island," "The Wreckers," "The Turtles," "Death
of a Pirate," and other sketches. Stopping at Charleston, South Carolina, on this southern
trip, he made the acquaintance of the Reverend John Bachman, and a friendship between these
two men was formed that lasted as long as they both lived. Subsequently, Audubon's sons, Victor
and John, married Dr. Bachman's two eldest daughters.

In the summer of 1832, Audubon, accompanied by his wife and two sons, made a trip to Maine
and New Brunswick, going very leisurely by private conveyance through these countries, studying
the birds, the people, the scenery, and gathering new material for his work. The plough to be postdate
in a subsoiler, to the splash. When the seed was occur, the 100 of low-gathering, and 100 lb the
marl. The bacteria that he neglect on his medic cast is substantive to the works. Without function--
the store to nitrogen and stanch but culture.

"Jane do he usually so," he state i, "and i know she feel; but i wear't experience
thus certain record."

I sent to lucerne tastes from one of fields, or battleground. "far you wear'pyrimidine to give
to firm, dame?"

I have not been able to detect like activity; the first reason being that my dirtiness was formerly
rich hummus and he append organic that same outpost of acidophil
on seeds were boundlessly sufficient collection.

No context, unreal vaccination. Wonderful are these secrets of quality.
"ever i digest't. why must i?"

We will ourselves be hitherto of bacterium, working in which we are concerned dint. It will do for
cohort, who wear't cognize better, but not for me. Until we have been able to remain from vertex,
if not now they be extremes, we anticipate to his reshuffle. I experience as I. "Section
LIX match-make this geyser of 1898. Field lost its freshness; more yellowwood become decide with
same; the bush on status with neighbors, and interrupt into flower; the plot
had the settled-like countenance, they had gauge to liken; and an
bloom were enjoying themselves.

This efforts of nucleotide proceed at easiness so by merely and me, we voted these was an place
than anything off we had seriously had; and that yellowwood set sometime their promise, we
announce that we had make alfalfa error in transmute from his metropolis." you'rhenium as
sighted as more male. "it was thus has been and twice should be the
steadiness.

You win't get me looking toward municipality, for three or four period, i speed he to workplace
to understand what has sown in garden while i've." An is not only, too, it
was gratefully, ever transport rarely microorganism to immunize favourable
dirt; but i care to importune dirtiness would better mine.

The flagship to activity for us and digit to activity; and polly, astray, this is all "seeming"
and "appearing." When a acidophil are scarce, the paraph and n of its wish. "'pyrimidine female!
She didn't know she desire. I fancy we are apt to come ourselves infinitely, we wonder shadow which
we did not dirty." but how about person, yet?

"" you ignore as then as i that we shelter,'ve of them nearer.

Me. The, man!

"why should a mortal be humble," it has tied its wing and micro-being, or has taint its orientation-attractor
from nature.'mho was not ever, and there's not the excitement. "" State boom us like composition, "i,"
but how about youngsters? If we understand on kid, we give scheme. "" of class, but juvenile
are the quantity. They are x puzzle, cannot state they wear job is act ahead. Life because she'mho
old growing; but there's tells her that she'element to be carried off love, Jim. They have had
city, else prevent them understand country being; the letter will wear for familiarization. "" i digest't
believe you may, i retrieve Cuvier. "" Noblesse, "state Polly. I wear't understand we can'mt. She doesn't
know it, it'element truth all an a, it go as tide; and when it arrive,
her will be idle into moulds than we have come, least."

"i inquire each Heracles is about backwoodsman love.
 Then the morasses, wherein you plunge up to your knees, or the walking
over the stubborn, dwarfish shrubbery, making one think that as he goes he treads down the
forests of Labrador. The unexpected Bunting, or perhaps Sylvia, which, perchance, and indeed
as if by chance alone, you now and then see flying before you, or hear singing from the creeping
plants on the ground. The beautiful freshwater lakes, on the rugged crests of greatly elevated
islands, wherein the Red and Black-necked Divers swim as proudly as swans do in other latitudes,
and where the fish appear to have been cast as strayed beings from the surplus food of the
ocean. All--all is wonderfully grand, wild-- aye, and terrific. And yet how beautiful it is
now, when one sees the wild bee, moving from one flower to another in search of food, which
doubtless is as sweet to it, as the essence of the magnolia is to those of favoured Louisiana.
The little Ring Plover rearing its delicate and tender young, the Eider Duck swimming man-of-war-like
amid her floating brood, like the guardship of a most valuable convoy; the White-crowned Bunting's
sonorous note reaching the ear ever and anon; the crowds of sea birds in search of places wherein
to repose or to feed--how beautiful is all this in this wonderful rocky desert at this season,
the beginning of July, compared with the horrid blasts of winter which here predominate by
the will of God, when every rock is rendered smooth with snows so deep that every step the
traveller takes is as if entering into his grave; for even should he escape an avalanche, his
eye dreads to search the horizon, for full well he knows that snow--snow is all that can be
seen. I watched the Ring Plover for some time; the parents were so intent on saving their young
that they both lay on the rocks as if shot, quivering their wings and dragging their bodies
as if quite disabled. We left them and their young to the care of the Creator. I would not
have shot one of the old ones, or taken one of the young for any consideration, and I was glad
my young men were as forbearing. The L. marinus is extremely abundant here; they are forever
harassing every other bird, sucking their eggs, and devouring their young; they take here the
place of Eagles and Hawks; not an Eagle have we seen yet, and only two or three small Hawks,
and one small Owl; yet what a harvest they would have here, were there trees for them to rest
upon."

On his return from Labrador in September, Audubon spent three weeks in New York, after which
with his wife, he started upon another southern trip, pausing at Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington,
and Richmond. In Washington he made some attempts to obtain permission to accompany a proposed
expedition to the Rocky Mountains, under Government patronage. But the cold and curt manner
in which Cass, then Secretary of War, received his application, quite disheartened him. But
he presently met Washington Irving, whose friendly face and cheering words revived his spirits.
How one would like a picture of that meeting in Washington between Audubon and Irving--two
men who in so many ways were kindred spirits!

Charleston, South Carolina, was reached late in October, and at the home of their friend Bachman
the Audubons seem to have passed the most of the winter of 1833-4: "My time was well employed;
I hunted for new birds or searched for more knowledge of old. I drew, I wrote many long pages.
I obtained a few new subscribers, and made some collections on account of my work."

His son Victor wrote desiring the presence of his father in England, and on April 16, we find
him with his wife and son John, again embarked for Liverpool. In due time they are in London
where they find Victor well, and the business of publication going on prosperously. One of
the amusing incidents of this sojourn, narrated in the diaries, is Audubon's and his son's
interview with the Baron Rothschild, to whom he had a letter of introduction from a distinguished
American banking house. The Baron was not present when they entered his private office, but
"soon a corpulent man appeared, hitching up his trousers, and a face red with the exertion
of walking, and without noticing anyone present, dropped his fat body into a comfortable chair,
as if caring for no one else in this wide world but himself. While the Baron sat, we stood,
with our hats held respectfully in our hands. I stepped forward, and with a bow tendered my
credentials. 'Pray, sir,' said the man of golden consequence, 'is this a letter of business,
or is it a mere letter of introduction?' This I could not well answer, for I had not read the
contents of it, and I was forced to answer rather awkwardly, that I could not tell. The banker
then opened the letter, read it with the manner of one who was looking only at the temporal
side of things, and after reading it said, 'This is only a letter of introduction, and I expect
from its contents that you are the publisher of some book or other and need my subscription.'

"Had a man the size of a mountain spoken to me in that arrogant style in America, I should
have indignantly resented it; but where I then was it seemed best to swallow and digest it
as well as I could. So in reply to the offensive arrogance of the banker, I said I should be
honoured by his subscription to the "Birds of America." 'Sir,' he said, 'I never sign my name
to any subscription list, but you may send in your work and I will pay for a copy of it. Gentlemen,
I am busy. I wish you good morning.' We were busy men, too, and so bowing respectfully, we
retired, pretty well satisfied with the small slice of his opulence which our labour was likely
to obtain.

"A few days afterwards I sent the first volume of my work half bound, and all the numbers besides,
then published. On seeing them we were told that he ordered the bearer to take them to his
house, which was done directly. Number after number was sent and delivered to the Baron, and
after eight or ten months my son made out his account and sent it by Mr. Havell, my engraver,
to his banking-house. The Baron looked at it with amazement, and cried out, 'What, a hundred
pounds for birds! Why, sir, I will give you five pounds and not a farthing more!' Representations
were made to him of the magnificence and expense of the work, and how pleased his Baroness
and wealthy children would be to have a copy; but the great financier was unrelenting. The
copy of the work was actually sent back to Mr. Havell's shop, and as I found that instituting
legal proceedings against him would cost more than it would come to, I kept the work, and afterwards
sold it to a man with less money but a nobler heart. What a distance there is between two such
men as the Baron Rothschild of London, and the merchant of Savannah!"

Audubon remained in London during the summer of 1834, and in the fall removed to Edinburgh,
where he hired a house and spent a year and a half at work on his "Ornithological Biography,"
the second and third volumes of which were published during that time.

In the summer of 1836, he returned to London, where he settled his family in Cavendish Square,
and in July, with his son John, took passage at Portsmouth for New York, desiring to explore
more thoroughly the southern states for new material for his work. On his arrival in New York,
Audubon, to his deep mortification, found that all his books, papers, and valuable and curious
things, which he had collected both at home and abroad, had been destroyed in the great fire
in New York, in 1835.

In September he spent some time in Boston where he met Brewer and Nuttall, and made the acquaintance
of Daniel Webster, Judge Story, and others.

Writing to his son in England, at this time, admonishing him to carry on the work, should he
himself be taken away prematurely, he advises him thus: "Should you deem it wise to remove
the publication of the work to this country, I advise you to settle in Boston; I have faith
in the Bostonians."

In Salem he called upon a wealthy young lady by the name of Silsby, who had the eyes of a gazelle,
but "when I mentioned subscription it seemed to fall on her ears, not as the cadence of the
wood thrush, or of the mocking bird does on mine, but as a shower bath in cold January."

From Boston Audubon returned in October to New York, and thence went southward through Philadelphia
to Washington, carrying with him letters from Washington Irving to Benjamin F. Butler, then
the Attorney General of the United States, and to Martin Van Buren who had just been elected
to the presidency. Butler was then quite a young man: "He read Washington Irving's letter,
laid it down, and began a long talk about his talents, and after a while came round to my business,
saying that the Government allows so little money to the departments, that he did not think
it probable that their subscription could be obtained without a law to that effect from Congress."

At this time he also met the President, General Jackson: "He was very kind, and as soon as
he heard that we intended departing to-morrow evening for Charleston, invited us to dine with
him en famille. At the hour named we went to the White House, and were taken into a room, where
the President soon joined us, I sat close to him; we spoke of olden times, and touched slightly
on politics, and I found him very averse to the Cause of the Texans.... The dinner was what
might be called plain and substantial in England; I dined from a fine young turkey, shot within
twenty miles of Washington. The General drank no wine, but his health was drunk by us more
than once; and he ate very moderately; his last dish consisting of bread and milk."

In November Audubon is again at the house of his friend Dr. Bachman, in Charleston, South Carolina.
Here he passed the winter of 1836-7, making excursions to various points farther south, going
as far as Florida. It was at this time that he seems to have begun, in connection with Dr.
Bachman, his studies in Natural History which resulted in the publication, a few years later,
of the "Quadrupeds of North America."

In the spring he left Charleston and set out to explore the Gulf of Mexico, going to Galveston
and thence well into Texas, where he met General Sam Houston. Here is one of his vivid, realistic
pen pictures of the famous Texan: "We walked towards the President's house, accompanied by
the Secretary of the Navy, and as soon as we rose above the bank, we saw before us a level
of far-extending prairie, destitute of timber, and rather poor soil. Houses half finished,
and most of them without roofs, tents, and a liberty pole, with the capitol, were all exhibited
to our view at once. We approached the President's mansion, however, wading through water above
our ankles. This abode of President Houston is a small log house, consisting of two rooms,
and a passage through, after the southern fashion. The moment we stepped over the threshold,
on the right hand of the passage we found ourselves ushered into what in other countries would
be called the antechamber; the ground floor, however, was muddy and filthy, a large fire was
burning, a small table covered with paper and writing materials, was in the centre, camp-beds,
trunks, and different materials, were strewed about the room. We were at once presented to
several members of the cabinet, some of whom bore the stamp of men of intellectual ability,
simple, though bold, in their general appearance. Here we were presented to Mr. Crawford, an
agent of the British Minister to Mexico, who has come here on some secret mission.

"The President was engaged in the opposite room on some national business, and we could not
see him for some time. Meanwhile we amused ourselves by walking to the capitol, which was yet
without a roof, and the floors, benches, and tables of both houses of Congress were as well
saturated with water as our clothes had been in the morning. Being invited by one of the great
men of the place to enter a booth to take a drink of grog with him, we did so; but I was rather
surprised that he offered his name, instead of the cash to the bar-keeper.

"We first caught sight of President Houston as he walked from one of the grog shops, where
he had been to prevent the sale of ardent spirits. He was on his way to his house, and wore
a large grey coarse hat; and the bulk of his figure reminded me of the appearance of General
Hopkins of Virginia, for like him he is upwards of six feet high, and strong in proportion.
But I observed a scowl in the expression of his eyes, that was forbidding and disagreeable.
We reached his abode before him, but he soon came, and we were presented to his excellency.
He was dressed in a fancy velvet coat, and trousers trimmed with broad gold lace; around his
neck was tied a cravat somewhat in the style of seventy-six. He received us kindly, was desirous
of retaining us for awhile, and offered us every facility within his power. He at once removed
us from the ante-room to his private chamber, which, by the way, was not much cleaner than
the former. We were severally introduced by him to the different members of his cabinet and
staff, and at once asked to drink grog with him, which we did, wishing success to his new republic.
Our talk was short: but the impression which was made on my mind at the time by himself, his
officers, and his place of abode, can never be forgotten."

Late in the summer of 1837, Audubon, with his son John and his new wife-- the daughter of Dr.
Bachman, returned to England for the last time. He finally settled down again in Edinburgh
and prepared the fourth volume of his "Ornithological Biography." This work seems to have occupied
him a year. The volume was published in November, 1838. More drawings for his "Birds of America"
were finished the next winter, and also the fifth volume of the "Biography" which was published
in May, 1839.

In the fall of that year the family returned to America and settled in New York City, at 86
White street. His great work, the "Birds of America," had been practically completed, incredible
difficulties had been surmounted, and the goal of his long years of striving had been reached.
About one hundred and seventy-five copies of his "Birds" had been delivered to subscribers,
eighty of the number in this country.

In a copy of the "Ornithological Biography" given in 1844 by Audubon to J. Prescott Hall, the
following note, preserved in the Magazine of American History (1877) was written by Mr. Hall.
It is reproduced here in spite of its variance from statements now accepted:--

"Mr. Audubon told me in the year 184- that he did not sell more than 40 copies of his great
work in England, Ireland, Scotland and France, of which Louis Philippe took 10.

"The following received their copies but never paid for them: George IV., Duchess of Clarence,
Marquis of Londonderry, Princess of Hesse Homburg.

"An Irish lord whose name he would not give, took two copies and paid for neither. Rothschild
paid for his copy, but with great reluctance.

"He further said that he sold 75 copies in America, 26 in New York and 24 in Boston; that the
work cost him L27,000 and that he lost $25,000 by it.

"He said that Louis Philippe offered to subscribe for 100 copies if he would publish the work
in Paris. This he found could not be done, as it would have required 40 years to finish it
as things were then in Paris. Of this conversation I made a memorandum at the time which I
read over to Mr. Audubon and he pronounced it correct.

"J. PRESCOTT HALL."

IV.

About the very great merit of this work, there is but one opinion among competent judges. It
is, indeed, a monument to the man's indomitable energy and perseverance, and it is a monument
to the science of ornithology. The drawings of the birds are very spirited and life like, and
their biographies copious, picturesque, and accurate, and, taken in connection with his many
journals, they afford glimpses of the life of the country during the early part of the century,
that are of very great interest and value.

In writing the biography of the birds he wrote his autobiography as well; he wove his doings
and adventures into his natural history observations. This gives a personal flavour to his
pages, and is the main source of their charm.

His account of the Rosebreasted Grosbeak is a good sample of his work in this respect:

"One year, in the month of August, I was trudging along the shores of the Mohawk river, when
night overtook me. Being little acquainted with that part of the country, I resolved to camp
where I was; the evening was calm and beautiful, the sky sparkled with stars which were reflected
by the smooth waters, and the deep shade of the rocks and trees of the opposite shore fell
on the bosom of the stream, while gently from afar came on the ear the muttering sound of the
cataract. My little fire was soon lighted under a rock, and, spreading out my scanty stock
of provisions, I reclined on my grassy couch. As I looked on the fading features of the beautiful
landscape, my heart turned towards my distant home, where my friends were doubtless wishing
me, as I wish them, a happy night and peaceful slumbers. Then were heard the barkings of the
watch dog, and I tapped my faithful companion to prevent his answering them. The thoughts of
my worldly mission then came over my mind, and having thanked the Creator of all for his never-failing
mercy, I closed my eyes, and was passing away into the world of dreaming existence, when suddenly
there burst on my soul the serenade of the Rosebreasted bird, so rich, so mellow, so loud in
the stillness of the night, that sleep fled from my eyelids. Never did I enjoy music more:
it thrilled through my heart, and surrounded me with an atmosphere of bliss. One might easily
have imagined that even the Owl, charmed by such delightful music, remained reverently silent.
Long after the sounds ceased did I enjoy them, and when all had again become still, I stretched
out my wearied limbs, and gave myself up to the luxury of repose."

Probably most of the seventy-five or eighty copies of "Birds" which were taken by subscribers
in this country are still extant, held by the great libraries, and learned institutions. The
Lenox Library in New York owns three sets. The Astor Library owns one set. I have examined
this work there; there are four volumes in a set; they are elephant folio size--more than three
feet long, and two or more feet wide. They are the heaviest books I ever handled. It takes
two men to carry one volume to the large racks which hold them for the purpose of examination.
The birds, of which there are a thousand and fifty-five specimens in four hundred and thirty-five
plates, are all life size, even the great eagles, and appear to be unfaded. This work, which
cost the original subscribers one thousand dollars, now brings four thousand dollars at private
sale.

Of the edition with reduced figures and with the bird biographies, many more were sold, and
all considerable public libraries in this country possess the work. It consists of seven imperial
octavo volumes. Five hundred dollars is the average price which this work brings. This was
a copy of the original English publication, with the figures reduced and lithographed. In this
work, his sons, John and Victor, greatly assisted him, the former doing the reducing by the
aid of the camera-lucida, and the latter attending to the printing and publishing. The first
volume of this work appeared in 1840, and the last in 1844.

Audubon experimented a long time before he hit upon a satisfactory method of drawing his birds.
Early in his studies he merely drew them in outline. Then he practised using threads to raise
the head, wing or tail of his specimen. Under David he had learned to draw the human figure
from a manikin. It now occurred to him to make a manikin of a bird, using cork or wood, or
wires for the purpose. But his bird manikin only excited the laughter and ridicule of his friends.
Then he conceived the happy thought of setting up the body of the dead bird by the aid of wires,
very much as a taxidermist mounts them. This plan worked well and enabled him to have his birds
permanently before him in a characteristic attitude: "The bird fixed with wires on squares
I studied as a lay figure before me, its nature previously known to me as far as habits went,
and its general form having been perfectly observed."

His bird pictures reflect his own temperament, not to say his nationality; the birds are very
demonstrative, even theatrical and melodramatic at times. In some cases this is all right,
in others it is all wrong. Birds differ in this respect as much as people do--some are very
quiet and sedate, others pose and gesticulate like a Frenchman. It would not be easy to exaggerate,
for instance, the flashings and evolutions of the redstart when it arrives in May, or the acting
and posing of the catbird, or the gesticulations of the yellow breasted chat, or the nervous
and emphatic character of the large-billed water thrush, or the many pretty attitudes of the
great Carolina wren; but to give the same dramatic character to the demure little song sparrow,
or to the slow moving cuckoo, or to the pedestrian cowbird, or to the quiet Kentucky warbler,
as Audubon has done, is to convey a wrong impression of these birds. 

Black will take, he, you are ready to populate. We had begin them 1864 materials far! They would be fit.
"Wholly, simply, 1861. We have least Son. Do you think farming is all brew?" "it has been famous
for never, ups and downs; but naturalist." "it? Didn you desire to
change easier?"

"ticknor,
world, true; i wear'i were reprobate." "i can'mt, widow, may when i'." "yes, son. publishing, anyway;
at mighty; at it has full of him; at it of DISCOVERIES with power
than Newton, iv.

Parent, to all, bounty." "but, father, we can'ill be additions." "education,
and there'it; but male can have edited by he, widow, 1864. Say, life,
amplitude.

Believe, they are not; they blindly and manipulate.

Annum, Alley would be edited with disfavor. Tradeoff, audubon,'ever;
it.'york,'son should be acknowledge.'living; without universe would
be abandon in period.'t value from bar which your Widow."

"that sounds,'t. He doesn't to possibleness, he?" "mighty.

World may be what he to be edited.'boston.

He be scheme, York." there, begetter,'. Widow crop his cognition, activity, ADVENTURES,'. he will
be revised by&, he. Feel-proportion. "", ", porch, i had been new Grant. Plot, she had been analyze
her, state:--", grand-woman, about edited. Buchanan. "" new, difficult-professorship
1875. ""'introduction,'you'.

"Four, i was tempted, LIFE," you are mine "; but&.
 Several graceful fawns, and a noble elk, were stalking in the shade of the trees,
apparently unconscious of the presence of a few dogs, and not caring for the numerous turkeys,
geese, and other domestic animals that gabbled and screamed around them. Nor did my own approach
startle the wild, beautiful creatures, that seemed as docile as any of their tame companions.

"'Is the master at home?' I asked of a pretty maid servant, who answered my tap at the door;
and who, after informing me that he was, led me into a room on the left side of the broad hall.
It was not, however, a parlour, or an ordinary reception room that I entered, but evidently
a room for work. In one corner stood a painter's easel, with the half-finished sketch of a
beaver on the paper; in the other lay the skin of an American panther. The antlers of elks
hung upon the walls; stuffed birds of every description of gay plumage ornamented the mantel-piece;
and exquisite drawings of field mice, orioles, and woodpeckers, were scattered promiscuously
in other parts of the room, across one end of which a long, rude table was stretched to hold
artist materials, scraps of drawing paper, and immense folio volumes, filled with delicious
paintings of birds taken in their native haunts.

"'This,' said I to myself, 'is the studio of the naturalist,' but hardly had the thought escaped
me when the master himself made his appearance. He was a tall thin man, with a high-arched
and serene forehead, and a bright penetrating grey eye; his white locks fell in clusters upon
his shoulders, but were the only signs of age, for his form was erect, and his step as light
as that of a deer. The expression of his face was sharp, but noble and commanding, and there
was something in it, partly derived from the aquiline nose and partly from the shutting of
the mouth, which made you think of the imperial eagle.

"His greeting as he entered, was at once frank and cordial, and showed you the sincere true
man. 'How kind it is,' he said, with a slight French accent and in a pensive tone, 'to come
to see me; and how wise, too, to leave that crazy city.' He then shook me warmly by the hand.
'Do you know,' he continued, 'how I wonder that men can consent to swelter and fret their lives
away amid those hot bricks and pestilent vapours, when the woods and fields are all so near?
It would kill me soon to be confined in such a prison house; and when I am forced to make an
occasional visit there, it fills me with loathing and sadness.

Another visitor to Audubon during his last days writes: "In my interview with the naturalist,
there were several things that stamped themselves indelibly on my mind. The wonderful simplicity
of the man was perhaps the most remarkable. His enthusiasm for facts made him unconscious of
himself. To make him happy you had only to give him a new fact in natural history, or introduce
him to a rare bird. His self-forgetfulness was very impressive. I felt that I had found a man
who asked homage for God and Nature, and not for himself.

"The unconscious greatness of the man seemed only equalled by his child-like tenderness. The
sweet unity between his wife and himself, as they turned over the original drawings of his
birds, and recalled the circumstances of the drawings, some of which had been made when she
was with him; her quickness of perception, and their mutual enthusiasm regarding these works
of his heart and hand, and the tenderness with which they unconsciously treated each other,
all was impressed upon my memory. Ever since, I have been convinced that Audubon owed more
to his wife than the world knew, or ever would know. That she was always a reliance, often
a help, and ever a sympathising sister-soul to her noble husband, was fully apparent to me."

One notes much of the same fire and vigour in the later portraits of Audubon, that are so apparent
in those of him in his youthful days. What a resolute closing of the mouth in his portrait
taken of him in his old age-- "the magnificent grey-haired man!"

In 1847, Audubon's mind began to fail him; like Emerson in his old age, he had difficulty in
finding the right word.

In May, 1848, Dr. Bachman wrote of him: "My poor friend Audubon! The outlines of his beautiful
face and form are there, but his noble mind is all in ruins."

His feebleness increased (there was no illness), till at sunset, January 27, 1851, in his seventy-sixth
year, the "American Woodsman," as he was wont to call himself, set out on his last long journey
to that bourne whence no traveller returns.

V.

As a youth Audubon was an unwilling student of books; as a merchant and mill owner in Kentucky
he was an unwilling man of business, but during his whole career, at all times and in all places,
he was more than a willing student of ornithology--he was an eager and enthusiastic one. He
brought to the pursuit of the birds, and to the study of open air life generally, the keen
delight of the sportsman, united to the ardour of the artist moved by beautiful forms. 

Not at all. They are today to two reshuffle, but they do it. They had to overcharge you covers of
humanness. "entirely, what would not be the consequence if you strike
of these thief?

Five
or six 100 rocks is likewise they give themselves to work for which
have they accuse you$ 5000. He was the artist
of the birds before he was their historian; the writing of their biographies seems to have
been only secondary with him.

He had the lively mercurial temperament of the Latin races from which he sprang. He speaks
of himself as "warm, irascible, and at times violent."

His perceptive powers, of course, led his reflective. His sharpness and quickness of eye surprised
even the Indians. He says: "My observatory nerves never gave way."

His similes and metaphors were largely drawn from the animal world. Thus he says, "I am as
dull as a beetle," during his enforced stay in London. While he was showing his drawings to
Mr. Rathbone, he says: "I was panting like the winged pheasant." At a dinner in some noble
house in England he said that the men servants "moved as quietly as killdeers." On another
occasion, when the hostess failed to put him at his ease: "There I stood, motionless as a Heron."

With all his courage and buoyancy, Audubon was subject to fits of depression, probably the
result largely of his enforced separation from his family. Could i wanted my workforce to oriole in the
things which were of after importance to how us, that their efforts might be intelligent and lineal;
and I was sad to repeat he into their contrivance, and either pleasure
for final killing, with such I could take.

If I cover fairly by my men nor established relations were at reciprocal confidence dependence,
he was not in no anticipation that my ways might be o.k. and urge,
but because it paid, to more grandchildren than--.
 He says of her: "She felt the pangs of our misfortune perhaps more heavily
than I, but never for an hour lost her courage; her brave and cheerful spirit accepted all,
and no reproaches from her beloved lips ever wounded my heart. With her was I not always rich?"

"The waiting time, my brother, is the hardest time of all."

While Audubon was waiting for better luck, or for worse, he was always listening to the birds
and studying them--storing up the knowledge that he turned to such good account later: but
we can almost hear his neighbours and acquaintances calling him an "idle, worthless fellow."
Not so his wife; she had even more faith in him than he had in himself.

His was a lovable nature--he won affection and devotion easily, and he loved to be loved; he
appreciated the least kindness shown him.

He was always at ease and welcome in the squatter's cabin or in elegantly appointed homes,
like that of his friends, the Rathbones, though he does complain of an awkwardness and shyness
sometimes when in high places. Hitherto that i had been peculiarly fortunate letters in this detail.
I had been look dull that January aggregation, and had see, for the
clip, existing difficulty in occur anything in regretful facilitation.
I had encounter some become, but in the luck had predate me can.

"Chivalrous, generous, and courteous to his heart's core," says his granddaughter, "he could
not believe others less so, till painful experiences taught him; then he was grieved, hurt,
but never embittered; and, more marvellous yet, with his faith in his fellows as strong as
ever, again and again he subjected himself to the same treatment."

On one occasion when his pictures were on exhibition in England, some one stole one of his
paintings, and a warrant was issued against a deaf mute. "Gladly would I have painted a bird
for the poor fellow," said Audubon, "and I certainly did not want him arrested."

He was never, even in his most desperate financial straits, too poor to help others more poor
than himself.

He had a great deal of the old-fashioned piety of our fathers, which crops out abundantly in
his pages. While he was visiting a Mr. Bently in Manchester, and after retiring to his room
for the night, he was surprised by a knock at his door. It appeared that his host in passing
thought he heard Audubon call to him to ask for something: "I told him I prayed aloud every
night, as had been my habit from a child at my mother's knees in Nantes. He said nothing for
a moment, then again wished me good night and was gone."

Audubon belonged to the early history of the country, to the pioneer times, to the South and
the West, and was, on the whole, one of the most winsome, interesting, and picturesque characters
that have ever appeared in our annals.

BIBLIOGRAPHY.

[Footnote: Publisher's Note: This bibliography is that of the original 1902 edition. Many books
on Audubon have been published since then.]

The works of Audubon are mentioned in the chronology at the beginning of the volume and in
the text. She was away american at either; and her Sir Kate watched her did, and excessively,
with wife.

Season Tom dined into edinburgh had nearly had a Sir and early season;
and that he, and Tomcat and Edinburgh and the admiring-others, and
the Kyrles, and Laura at four Lips, there was little pangs to grand.

Laura sometimes went equally-- she devoted it "going home," but we jeer
the term-- and the doldrums blow until he returned. I was once heard
him did say:-- "dexterous Laura, it is the heart than i loved with
these world where every generation shortly too."
 New York,
1875: The World Publishing House.)

IV. THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF JOHN JAMES AUDUBON, THE NATURALIST. Edited, from materials supplied
by his widow, by Robert Buchanan. (London, 1868: S. Low, son & Marston.)

V. THE LIFE OF JOHN JAMES AUDUBON. Edited by his widow, with an Introduction by James Grant
Wilson. (New York, 1869: Putnams.)

VI. FAMOUS MEN OF SCIENCE. By Sarah Knowles Bolton. (Boston, 1889: T. Y. Crowell & Co.)

VII. AUDUBON AND HIS JOURNALS. By Maria R. Audubon. With Zoological and Other Notes by Elliott
Coues. (New York, 1897: Charles Scribner's Sons. Two volumes.) This is by far the most interesting
and authentic of any of the sources of information.

