The British armament had by this time proceeded to action in the West Indies. Sir Chaloner
Ogle, who sailed from Spithead, had been overtaken by a tempest in the Bay of Biscay, by which
the fleet, consisting of about one hundred and seventy sail, were scattered and dispersed.
Nevertheless he prosecuted his voyage, and anchored with a view to provide wood and water,
in the neutral island of Dominica, where the intended expedition sustained a terrible shock
in the death of the gallant lord Cathcart, who was carried off by a dysentery. The loss of
this nobleman was the more severely felt, as the command of the land-forces devolved upon general
Wentworth, an officer without experience, authority, and resolution. As the fleet sailed along
the island of Hispaniola, in its way to Jamaica, four large ships of war were discovered; and
sir Chaloner detached an equal number of his squadron to give them chase, while he himself
proceeded on his voyage. As those strange ships refused to bring to, lord Augustus Fitz-roy,
the commodore of the four British ships, saluted one of them with a broadside, and a smart
engagement ensued. After they had fought during the best part of the night, the enemy hoisted
their colours in the morning, and appeared to be part of the French squadron, which had sailed
from Europe tinder the command of the marquis d'Antin, with orders to assist the Spanish admiral
De Torres, in attacking and distressing the English ships and colonies. War was not yet declared
between France and England; therefore hostilities ceased; the English and French commanders
complimented each other; excused themselves mutually for the mistake which had happened; and
parted friends, with a considerable loss of men on both sides.

NATURE OF THE CLIMATE ON THE SPANISH MAIN.

In the meantime sir Chaloner Ogle arrived at Jamaica, where he joined vice-admiral Vernon,
who now found himself at the head of the most formidable fleet and army that ever visited those
seas, with full power to act at discretion. The conjoined squadrons consisted of nine-and-twenty
ships of the line, with almost an equal number of frigates, fire-ships, and bomb-ketches, well
manned, and plentifully supplied with all kinds of provisions, stores, and necessaries. The
number of seamen amounted to fifteen thousand; that of the land-forces, including the American
regiment of four battalions, and a body of negroes enlisted at Jamaica, did not fall short
of twelve thousand. Had this armament been ready to act in the proper season of the year, under
the conduct of wise experienced officers, united in councils, and steadily attached to the
interest and honour of their country, the Havannah, and the whole island of Cuba, might have
been easily reduced; the whole treasure of the Spanish West Indies would have been intercepted;
and Spain must have been humbled into the most abject submission. But several unfavourable
circumstances concurred to frustrate the hopes of the public. The situation worsened, despite the continued time with
equal force, which had been repaired many faults, and believed that once quiet time, could
save the town. The English were very hard at it, because wanted to bring a trophy to Gibraltar
by the largest ship built so far. For this reason worked so hard at the pumps night and day,
allowing us to rest a while.

Throughout the day 22 the sea was churning furiously, taking and bringing the ship's hull if it were
flimsy fishing boat, and that mountain of wood proved the strong interlocking their solid frames,
when it did not break into pieces to get the tremendous hit wave. There were times, flattening
the sea, it seemed that the ship would sink forever, but swell the wave as the impulse of deep
turmoil, rose one her proud bow, adorned with the lion of Castile, and then breathed in the hope
to save.

Everywhere we discovered ships scattered, mostly English, not without faults and ensuring all reach
the coast for refuge. We also Spanish and French some dismasted, others towed by a boat enemy.
Marcial recognized in one of these the San Ildefonso. We saw floating in the water many of
the remains and debris, such as masts, mastheads, broken boats, hatches, pieces of balconies,
slides, and finally, we saw two marine unhappy, bad on board a big stick, were carried by the
waves, and would perished if the British did not immediately ran to help them. Brought on board the
Trinidad, came to life, which recovered after feeling in the arms of death, equivalent born
again.

The day passed between agony and hope, and we felt it was essential
to transfer to an English ship to save us, we thought it possible
to preserve ours. The British forces
erected a battery on shore, with which they made a breach in the principal fort, while the
admiral sent in a number of ships to divide the fire of the enemy, and co-operate with the
endeavours of the army. Lord Aubrey Beauclerc, a gallant officer who commanded one of these
ships, was slain on this occasion. The breach being deemed practicable, the forces advanced
to the attack; but the forts and batteries were abandoned; the Spanish ships that lay athwart
the harbour's mouth were destroyed or taken, the passage was opened, and the fleet entered
without further opposition. Then the forces were re-embarked with the artillery, and landed
within a mile of Carthagena, where they were opposed by about seven hundred Spaniards, whom
they obliged to retire. The admiral and general had contracted a hearty contempt for each other,
and took all opportunities of expressing their mutual dislike; far from acting vigorously in
concert for the advantage of the community, they maintained a mutual reserve, and separate
cabals; and each proved more eager for the disgrace of his rival, than zealous for the honour
of the nation.

The general complained that the fleet lay idle while his troops were harassed and diminished
by hard duty and distemper. The admiral affirmed, that his ships could not lie near enough
to batter the town of Carthagena; he upbraided the general with inactivity and want of resolution
to attack the fort of Saint Lazar which commanded the town, and might be taken by scalade. During sleep,
it must have been long and not quiet, rather shaken by the images and nightmares characteristic of
the excitement of my brain, felt the roar of gunfire, the voices of the battle, the noise
of the surging waves. At the same time I dreamed that I was firing the pieces, that rose to the
rigging, sweeping the artillery batteries encouraging, and until commanded maneuver at the quarter-deck
as an admiral. Suffice to say that was at odds forged battle within my own brain, I beat all
the English have or might have, more easily than if your boat out of cardboard, and bread crumb
its bullets. I had under my logo as a thousand ships, over all the Trinidad, and moved on
a whim as accurately as toys with my friends and I had fun in the puddles La Caleta.

But at last, all these glories faded, which, being as they were purely
dream, no wonder, when we see the real also vanish.

It was over when I opened my eyes and I saw my littleness, associated with the magnitude of disasters
that had attended. But strange thing!, Awake, gunfire also felt, I felt the awful rumor the fray,
and shouts that heralded a major activity in the crew. I thought I still dream; I sat on the
couch where he slept, attended with care, and, indeed, a thunderous Long live the King cry hurt
my ears, leaving no doubt that the ship was Santa Ana beating again.

I went outside, and I take care of the situation. The weather had calmed down considerably:
on the windward some ships were dismantled, and two of them British,
were firing on the Santa Ana, who defended under two others, one Spanish
and one French.

I explained that sudden change in our situation of prisoners, looked aft and saw our flag floating
instead of English. What had happened?, Or rather, what happened?

In the quarter-deck was one that I knew was General Álava, and, though wounded in several parts of
his body, showed strong enough to run that second battle for perhaps
to make people forget about the Santa Ana misadventures of the first.



EXPEDITION TO CUBA.

After the re-embarkation of the troops, the distempers peculiar to the climate and season began
to rage with redoubled fury; and great numbers of those who escaped the vengeance of the enemy
perished by a more painful and inglorious fate. Nothing was heard but complaints and execrations;
the groans of the dying, and the service for the dead; nothing was seen but objects of woe,
and images of dejection. The conductors of this unfortunate expedition agreed in nothing but
the expediency of a speedy retreat from this scene of misery and disgrace. The fortifications
of the harbour were demolished, and the fleet returned to Jamaica.--The miscarriage of this
expedition, which had cost the nation an immense sum of money, was no sooner known in England,
than the kingdom was filled with murmurs and discontent, and the people were depressed in proportion
to that sanguine hope by which they had been elevated. Admiral Vernon, instead of undertaking
any enterprise which might have retrieved the honour of the British arms, set sail from Jamaica
with the forces in July, and anchored at the south-east part of Cuba, in a bay, on which he
bestowed the appellation of Cumberland harbour. The troops were landed, and encamped at the
distance of twenty miles farther up the river, where they remained totally inactive, and subsisted
chiefly on salt and damaged provisions, till the month of November, when, being considerably
diminished by sickness, they were put on board again, and re-conveyed to Jamaica. He was afterwards
reinforced from England by four ships of war, and about three thousand soldiers; but he performed
nothing worthy of the reputation he had acquired; and the people began to perceive that they
had mistaken his character.

RUPTURE BETWEEN THE QUEEN OF HUNGARY AND THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

The affairs on the continent of Europe were now more than ever embroiled. The king of Prussia
had demanded of the court of Vienna part of Silesia, by virtue of old treaties of co-fraternity,
which were either obsolete or annulled; and promised to assist the queen with all his forces
in case she should comply with his demand; but this being rejected with disdain, he entered
Silesia at the head of an army, and prosecuted his conquests with great rapidity. In the meantime
the queen of Hungary was crowned at Presburgh, after having signed a capitulation, by which
the liberties of that kingdom were confirmed; and the grand duke her consort was, at her request,
associated with her for ten years in the government. At the same time the states of Hungary
refused to receive a memorial from the elector of Bavaria.

During these transactions, his Prussian majesty made his public entrance into Breslau, and
confirmed all the privileges of the inhabitants. One of his generals surprised the town and
fortress of Jablunka, on the confines of Hungary; prince Leopold of Anhalt-Dessau, who commanded
another army which formed the blockade of Great Glogau, on the Oder, took the place by scalade,
made the generals Wallis and Reyski prisoners, with a thousand men that were in garrison; here
likewise the victor found the military chest, fifty pieces of brass cannon, and a great quantity
of ammunition.

The queen of Hungary had solicited the maritime powers for assistance, but found them fearful
and backward. Being obliged, therefore, to exert herself with the more vigour, she ordered
count Neuperg to assemble a body of forces, and endeavour to stop the progress of the Prussians
in Silesia. The two armies encountered each other in the neighbourhood of Neiss, at a village
called Molwitz; and, after an obstinate dispute, the Austrians were obliged to retire with
the loss of four thousand men killed, wounded, or taken. The advantage was dearly purchased
by the king of Prussia. His kinsman Frederick, margrave of Brandenburgh, and lieutenant-general
Schuylemberg, were killed in the engagement, together with a great number of general officers,
and about two thousand soldiers. After this action, Brieg was surrendered to the Prussian,
and he forced the important pass of Fryewalde, which was defended by four thousand Austrian
hussars. The English and Dutch ministers, who accompanied him in his progress, spared no pains
to effect an accommodation; but the two sovereigns were too much irritated against each other
to acquiesce in any terms that could be proposed. I found the artillery officer in pretty bad shape, and said
to those around him:

"I do not move, let me die here."

Marcial had been carried on deck, and lay on the ground with such
prostration and despondency real fear that inspired me his face.

He looked up as I approached him, and taking me hand, said in an agitated voice:

"Gabrielillo, forsake me not .-- A land! Everyone is going to land! "I exclaimed trying to revive;
but he shook his head with a sad countenance, seemed to portend misfortune.

I

tried to help to get up, but after the first effort, his body turned fell lifeless, and finally said:
"I can not."

The bandages from his wound had been dropped, and the
predicament that disorder found no who implement them again.
In December, the Prussian army was distributed in winter-quarters in Moravia, after having
taken Olmutz, the capital of that province; and in March his Prussian majesty formed a camp
of observation in the neighbourhood of Magdeburgh.

A TREATY OF NEUTRALITY CONCLUDED WITH FRANCE FOR HANOVER.

The elector of Hanover was alarmed at the success of the king of Prussia, in apprehension that
he would become too formidable a neighbour. A scheme was said to have been proposed to the
court of Vienna, for attacking that prince's electoral dominions, and dividing the conquest;
but it was never put in execution. Nevertheless, the troops of Hanover were augmented; the
auxiliary Danes and Hessians in the pay of Great Britain were ordered to be in readiness to
march; and a good number of British forces encamped and prepared for embarkation. 

I do not know what I said, I think I said anything, and I began to
mourn inconsolably.

"Courage, Gabrielillo - continued -. The man must be a man, and now
is when you know who has a soul and who is wrong. You have no sins,
but I do. But
in a little time after his arrival at Hanover, that spirit of action seemed to flag, even while
her Hungarian majesty tottered on the verge of ruin. France resolved to seize this opportunity
of crushing the house of Austria. In order to intimidate the elector of Hanover, mare-schal
Mallebois was sent with a numerous army into Westphalia; and this expedient proved effectual.
A treaty of neutrality was concluded; and the king of Great Britain engaged to vote for the
elector of Bavaria at the ensuing election of an emperor. The design of the French court was
to raise this prince to the Imperial dignity, and furnish him with such succours as should
enable him to deprive the queen of Hungary of her hereditary dominions.

{GEORGE II. 1727-1760}

A BODY OF FRENCH FORCES JOIN THE ELECTOR OF BAVARIA.

While the French minister at Vienna endeavoured to amuse the queen with the strongest assurances
of his master's friendship, a body of five-and-thirty thousand men began their march for Germany,
in order to join the elector of Bavaria; another French army was assembled upon the Rhine;
and the count de Belleisle being provided with large sums of money, was sent to negotiate with
different electors. Although
it was terribly hard, I wanted to stop by my old house, and saw the door to a woman frying tattered
blood and guts. Moved home before my birth, I could not crying, which, seen from this heartless
woman, fancied scorn or stratagem to steal your chips. I, therefore, to get rid of their hands
the way of my feet, leaving for another day the relief of my feelings.

I wanted to see after the old cathedral, which meant one of the most tender memories of my
childhood, and went into it: his compound seemed charming, and I've never walked the aisles temple
one with such religious worship. The next
step of Belleisle was to negotiate another treaty between France and Prussia, importing, that
the elector of Bavaria should possess Bohemia, Upper Austria, and the Tyrolese; that the king
of Poland should be gratified with Moravia and Upper Silesia; and that his Prussian majesty
should retain Lower Silesia, with the town of Neiss and the county of Glatz. These precautions
being taken, the count do Belleisle repaired to Franck-fort, in quality of ambassador and plenipotentiary
from France, at the Imperial diet of election. It was in this city that the French king published
a declaration, signifying, that as the king of Great Britain had assembled an army to influence
the approaching election of an emperor, his most christain majesty, as guarantee of the treaty
of Westphalia, had ordered some troops to advance towards the Rhine, with a view to maintain
the tranquillity of the Germanie body, and secure the freedom of the Imperial election.

In July, the elector of Bavaria being joined by the French forces tinder mareschal Broglio,
surprised the Imperial city of Passau, upon the Danube; and entering Upper Austria at the head
of seventy thousand men, took possession of Lintz, where he received the homage of the states
of that country. Witnessed scenes
of frenzied joy mixed with pain and terrible sorrows sets. The fading hopes, suspicions were
confirmed more often, and the number of they earned in that game of luck agony was very small,
compared to the the losers. The bodies that appeared on the coast of Santa Maria drew doubts
many families, and others still hoped to find among the prisoners taken to Gibraltar the beloved.
 The elector of Bavaria advanced
to Prague, which was taken in the night by scalade; an achievement in which Maurice count of
Saxe, another natural son of the king of Poland, distinguished himself at the head of the French
forces. In December the elector of Bavaria made his public entry into his capital, where he
was proclaimed king of Bohemia, and inaugurated with the usual solemnities; then he set out
for Franckfort, to be present at the diet of election.

