My parents were certainly respectable people, but they both inconsiderately died at a very
early period of my life, leaving me a few hundred dollars and a thickheaded uncle, to whom
was attached an objectionable aunt, the proprietress of a long nose and a shrewish temper.
The nose was adapted to the consumption of snuff, and the temper was effective in the destruction
of my happiness and peace of mind. The worthy couple, with a prophetic eye, saw that I was
destined to become, in future years, somewhat of a gourmand, unless care should be taken to
prevent such a melancholy fate; therefore, actuated by the best motives, and in order to teach
me the luxury of abstinence, they began by slow but sure degrees to starve me. Good people,
how I reverence their memory!

One night I committed burglary upon a closet, and feloniously carried off a chunk of bread
and meat, which I devoured in the cellar.

"Oh, my prophetic soul--my uncle!" That excellent man caught me in the act of eating the provender,
and--my bones ache at this very moment as I think of the licking I got! I forgot to mention
that I had a rather insignificant brother, four years older than myself, who became my uncle's
apprentice, and who joined that gentleman in his persecutions against me. My kind relatives
were rather blissful people in the way of ignorance, and they hated me because they imagined
that I regarded myself as their superior--a belief that was founded on the fact that I shunned
their society and passed the greater portion of my time in reading and writing.

I lived at that time in Thomas street, very near the famous brothel of Rosina Townsend, in
whose house that dreadful murder was committed which the New York public will still remember
with a thrill of horror. I allude to the murder of the celebrated courtezan Ellen Jewett. Her
lover, Richard P. Robinson, was tried and acquitted of the murder, through the eloquence of
his talented counsel, Ogden Hoffman, Esq. The facts of the case are briefly these:--Robinson
was a clerk in a wholesale store, and was the paramour of Ellen, who was strongly attached
to him. Often have I seen them walking together, both dressed in the height of fashion, the
beautiful Ellen leaning upon the arm of the dashing Dick, while their elegant appearance attracted
universal attention and admiration. But all this soon came to a bloody termination. Dick was
engaged to be married to a young lady of the highest respectability, the heiress of wealth
and the possessor of surpassing loveliness. He informed Ellen that his connection with her
must cease in consequence of his matrimonial arrangements, whereupon Ellen threatened to expose
him to his "intended" if he abandoned her. Embarrassed by the critical nature of his situation,
Dick, then, in an evil hour, resolved to kill the courtezan who threatened to destroy his anticipated
happiness. One Saturday night he visited her as usual; and after a splendid supper, they returned
to her chamber. Upon that occasion, as was afterwards proved on the trial, Dick wore an ample
cloak, and several persons noticed that he seemed to have something concealed beneath it. His
manner towards Ellen and also his words, were that night unusually caressing and affectionate.
What passed in that chamber, and who perpetrated that murder the Almighty knows--and, perhaps,
Dick Robinson, if he is still alive, also knows![A] The next morning (Sunday,) at a very early
hour, smoke was seen to proceed from Ellen's chamber, and the curtains of her bed were found
to have been set on fire. The flames were with difficulty extinguished, and there in the half
consumed bed, was found the mangled corpse of Ellen Jewett, having on the side of her head
an awful wound, which had evidently been inflicted by a hatchet. Dick Robinson was nowhere
to be found, but in the garden, near a fence, were discovered his cloak and a bloody hatchet.
With many others, I entered the room in which lay the body of Ellen, and never shall I forget
the horrid spectacle that met my gaze! There, upon that couch of sin, which had been scathed
by fire, lay blackened the half-burned remains of a once-beautiful woman, whose head exhibited
the dreadful wound which had caused her death. It had plainly been the murderer's intention
to burn down the house in order to destroy the ghastly evidence of his crime; but fate ordained
that the fire should be discovered and extinguished before the fatal wound became obliterated.
Robinson, as I said before, was tried and pronounced guiltless of the crime, through the ingenuity
of his counsel, who termed him an "innocent boy." The public, however, firmly believed in his
guilt; and the question arises--"If Dick Robinson did not kill Ellen Jewett, who did?" I do
not believe that ever before was presented so shameful an instance of perverted justice, or
so striking an illustration of the "glorious uncertainty of the law." It is rather singular
that Furlong, a grocer, who swore to an alibi in favor of Robinson, and who was the chief instrument
employed to effect the acquittal of that young man, some time afterwards committed suicide
by drowning, having first declared that his conscience reproached him for the part which he
played at the trial!

The Sabbath upon which this murder was brought to light was a dark, stormy day, and I have
reason to remember it well, for, in the afternoon, that good old pilgrim--my uncle, of course,--discovered
that I had played truant from Sunday School in the morning, and for that atrocious crime, he,
in his holy zeal for my spiritual and temporal welfare, resolved to bestow upon me a wholesome
and severe flogging, being aided and abetted in the formation of that laudable resolution by
my religious aunt and my sanctimonious brother, the latter of whom had turned informer against
me. Sweet relatives? how I love to think of them--and never do I fail to remember them in my
prayers. Well, I was lugged up into the garret, which was intended to be the scene of my punishment.
If I recollect rightly, I was then about twelve years of age, and rather a stout youth considering
my years. I determined to rebel against the authority of my beloved kindred, assert my independence,
and defend myself to the best of my ability. "I have suffered enough;" said I to myself, "and
now I'm going in."

"Sabbath-breaker, strip off your jacket," mildly remarked by dear uncle as he savagely flourished
a cowhide of most formidable aspect and alarming suppleness.

My reply was brief, but expressive:

"I'll see you d----d first," said I.

My uncle turned pale, my aunt screamed, and my brother rolled up the white of his eyes and groaned.

"What, what did you say?" demanded my uncle, who could not believe the evidence of his own
senses, for up to that moment I had always tamely submitted to the good man's amiable treatment
of me, and he found it impossible to imagine that I was capable of resisting him. Philip was sad in the way
that someone who is drinking wine is sad when the wind takes away his cups and bottles. He felt uneasy
and began to listen with a mixture of mistrust and restrained anger to the whispering that occurred
when he passed masters and servants alike.

There was no way of stopping the gossip. A maid of honor had revealed the secret to the Grandvella
and he brought the news to the King in Madrid. The King was furious and sent his chancellor
to Philipp, while the Queen sent her senior lady in waiting to Johanna. The Infanta was threatened with
divorce and imprisonment; when sacred ordinances are broken, the King had no authority even to save
his own family. In August Don Philipp had to move to Italy, and the King ordered the Infanta
to go to Medina del Campo. She was kept prisoner there and a fanatical Dominican was taken in
by her silence.

He then tried to frighten her with wild sermons to prick her conscience and three times a day he
croaked out all the punishments of hell as if he were an evil raven. When Philipp got home he had
the Infanta brought to him and freely promised to protect her from all her persecutors. Some
people thought that he did this because he was afraid of her magical
powers.

Others said that her beauty had aroused his desire, and that he was doing this out of cunning,
to make sure that he was well received by her. These poisonous rumours made his blood boil
and he was angered by the mocking look that he saw in all their faces. This kind of hidden Spanishness
was too much for his youthful sincerity. How vain their eyes were, how treacherous their handshakes,
and how sweet the tone of their voices, seemingly dripping honey
as they spoke.

Caught in the humid and swirling atmosphere, he often lay awake, feeling strangled by greed and
resentment. Eventually he gave in and allowed his unfocused desires to lead him into a vile kind
of action.

He arranged to meet with the two chamberlains, Lord Fyennes and Lord Ysselstein. One night they
broke in through a secret passage, and forced a way through a locked
door into Johanna's bedroom.

He duke stood with his sword drawn in front of her bed and commanded the Infanta to become
his lawfully wedded wife. He told her that if she refused, then he would
kill her. Her comely cheeks took on a pale color and she rose up from
the bed and asked the two gentlemen to leave the room. These two believed
that their master's will would prevail, and so they obeyed. Then
Johanna undressed and bound a black cloth over her eyes, saying "Now
you can take me, blind as I am, and you can satisfy your desire and
carry out your threat both at the same time."

Yes, reader, a new silver sixpence, that glittered in my hand like a bright star of hope, urging
me on to enterprise--to exertions. So fearful was I of losing the precious coin, that I continued
to grasp it tightly in my hand. I never had been allowed any pocket money, even on the Fourth
of July; and this large sum had come into my possession through the munificence of a neighbor,
as a reward for performing an errand.

Not knowing where else to go, I went down on the Battery, and sheltered myself under a tree
from the rain, which fell in torrents. Rather an interesting situation for a youth of twelve--homeless,
friendless, almost penniless! I was wet through to the skin, and as night came on, I became
desperately hungry, for I had eaten no dinner that day, and even my breakfast had been of the
phantom order--something like the pasteboard meals which are displayed upon the stage of the
theatre. However, I did not despair, for I was young and active, full of the hope so natural
to a youth ere rough contact with the world has crushed his spirit. I was well aware of the
fact that I was no fool, although I had often been called one by my hostile and unappreciating
relatives, whose opinions I had ever held in most supreme contempt. As I stood under that tree
to shelter myself from the rain, I felt quite happy, for a feeling of independence had arisen
within me. I was now my own master, and the consciousness that I must solely rely upon myself,
was to me a source of gratification and pride. I had not the slightest doubt of being able
to dig my way through the world in some way or other. When the performance was over, he approached Clarissa,
the step in apathetic attitude towards the exit, where her car was waiting, and asked whether
they have a joke with him want to do, and they, with dry lips, something like curious hatred
in the face, replied, laughing again: "No, no, Captain," were afterward. her face serious again,
almost sad, and she lowered her forehead.

Clemendot went home distraught, certainly in the opinion that he had an important confession received.
He was talking to agreed, and familiar, the next morning a fellow at. This drew a second friend's
secret, it was held at the Council and have lunch was the judge agreed. Jausion Monsieur and
Madame Mirabel was the master himself summon.

Officers were sent for, the murderer and his victim were removed, and comparative quiet prevailed.
I was seated in an obscure corner of the bar-room, wondering how I should get through the night,
when I was unceremoniously accosted by a lad of about my own age. He was a rakish looking youth,
quite handsome withal, dressed in the height of fashion, and was smoking a cigar with great
vigor and apparent relish. It will be seen hereafter that I have reason to remember this individual
to the very last day of my life. Would to heaven that I had never met him!

This youth slapped me familiarly on the shoulder, and said--

"Hallo, bub! why, you're wet as a drowned rat! Come and take a brandy cocktail--it will warm
you up!"

I had never drank a drop of liquor in my life, and I hadn't the faintest idea of what a brandy
cocktail was, and so I told my new friend, who laughed immoderately as he exclaimed--

"How jolly green you are, to be sure; why, you're a regular greenhorn, and I'm going to call
you by that name hereafter. Have you got any tin?"

I knew that he meant money, and so I told him that I had but a sixpence in the world.

"Bah!" cried my friend, as he drew his cigar from his mouth and salivated in the most fashionable
manner, "who are you, what are you and what are you doing here? Come, tell me all about yourself,
and it may perhaps be in my power to do you a service."

His frank, off-hand manner won my confidence. I told him my whole story, without any reserve;
and he laughed uproariously when I told him how I had pitched my tyrannical uncle down stairs.

"It served the old chap right," said he approvingly--"you are a fellow of some spirit, and
I like you. Come take a drink, and we can afterwards talk over what is best to be done."

I objected to drink, because I had formed a strong prejudice against ardent spirits, having
often been a witness of its deplorable effects in depriving men--and women, too--of their reason,
and reducing them to the condition of brute beasts. So, in declining my friend's invitation,
I told him my reasons for so doing, whereupon he laughed louder than ever, as he remarked--

"Why, Greenhorn, you'd make an excellent temperance lecturer. But perhaps you think I haven't
got any money to pay the rum. Look here--what do you think of that?"

He displayed a large roll of bank bills, and flourished them triumphantly. I had never before
seen so much money, except in the broker's windows; and my friend was immediately established
in my mind as a millionaire, whose wealth was inexhaustible. I suddenly conceived for him the
most profound respect, and would not have offended him for the world. How could I persist in
refusing to drink with a young gentleman of such wealth, and (as a necessary consequence) such
distinction? Besides, I suddenly felt quite a curiosity to drink some liquor, just to see how
it tasted. After all, it was only very low people who got drunk and wallowed in the mire. Gentlemen
(I thought) never get drunk, and they always seem so happy and joyous after they have been
drinking! How they shake hands, and swear eternal friendship, and seem generously willing to
lend or give away all they have in the world! So thought I, as my mind was made up to accept
the invitation of my friend. It is singular that I had forgotten all about the murder which
had just taken place in that bar-room, and which had been directly produced by intemperance.

"The fact is, my dear Greenhorn," said my friend, impressively, as he flourished his hand after
the manner of some aged, experienced and eloquent orator, "the fact is, the use of liquor,
and its abuse, are two very different things. A man (here he drew himself up) can drink like
a gentleman, or he can swill like a loafer, or a beast. Now I prefer the gentlemanly portion
of the argument, and therefore we'll go up and take a gentlemanly drink. I shall be happy,
young man, to initiate you into the divine joys and mysteries of Bacchus--ahem!"

I looked at my friend with increased wonder, for he displayed an assurance, a self-possession,
an elegant nonchalance, that were far beyond his years, for he was only about twelve years
old--my own age exactly. 

A week before Joan's birth the constable came with a confidential message of King. He indicated
to the Duke, as it had great concerns, the child in the hands to have a woman who was devoid
of all capable of making decisions according to the testimony of common sense. Although recently
the mischief to have alleviated, yet there is no safety, even the next day could darken the spirit
of the Infanta again. The Duke may better insight Give ear and remove the child from the demonic
realm, and the court of Madrid, said ready to take over education.

Philip struggled at first, but started to soon. There was a girl, on the seventh Day of his age,
the maternal hat was stolen. As the princess from her bed brought her the facts could not be
kept secret. But if everything is set so as if an evidence of the gracious sentiments of the
king.

Johanna listened quietly. She demanded to speak to the Duke.

It was their means, Don Philip I have to go away in urgent business.

In fact, Philip was hiding in a castle in Aragon, he was allowed to assume, Johanna was intrinsic
to the inevitable. He had a few social companions with him taken, including the Knight Franz
von Kastilalt, an adventurer and clowns. This became his inseparable Trabant, relying on the
favor of the Duke, he committed many Crimes and was the terror of peaceful citizens. He was
such a huge eater, that he once, the Count of Aranda asked for God's
sake, to leave his area because he and could cause his people by famine.

The

Duke was too narrow and the city of Castile, he said, as a province of the devil. He was hated by
his house, hated the sky, covered it. The sun was shining, so defendant he fell on their fire,
rain, he said scornfully, a country that is water instead of giving birth Wine, you must flee.
 A very agreeable
feeling of exhilaration stole over me--I thought I was worth just one hundred thousand dollars--I
embraced my friend and swore he was a "trump"--I then noticed, with mild surprise, that he
had been multiplied into two individuals--there were two barkeepers now, although just before
I drank, there was but one--an additional chandelier had just stepped in to visit the solitary
one which had lighted the room--to speak plainly, I saw double; and to sum the whole matter
up in a few words, I was, for the first time in my life, most decidedly and incontestably drunk.

As nearly as I can remember, my friend linked his arm within mine, and we passed out into the
street--he partially supporting me, and keeping me from falling. Two precious youths, of twelve
years of age, we certainly were--one staggering and trying to fall down, and the other laughing,
and holding him up!

The rain had ceased falling, and the stars were shining as if nothing had happened. The cool
air sobered me, and my friend congratulated me on my recovery from a state of inebriety.

"After a little practice at the bar," said he--"it will take a good many tods to floor you.
Let me give you a few hints as regards drinking. Never mix your liquor--always stick to one
kind. After every glass, eat a cracker--or, what is better, a pickle. Plain drinks are always
the best--far preferable to fancy drinks, which contain sugar, and lemons, and mint, and other
trash; although a mixed drink may be taken on a stormy night, such as this has been. Drink
ale, or beer, sparingly, and only after dinner--for, taken in large quantities, it is apt to
bloat a person, and it plays the very devil with his internal arrangements. Besides, it is
filthy stuff, at best, being made of the most repulsive materials and in the dirtiest manner.
Always drink good liquor, which will not hurt you, while the vile stuff which is sold in the
different bar-rooms will soon send you to your grave. If you pass a day or two in drinking
freely, do not miss eating a single meal, and if you do not feel inclined to eat, force yourself
to do it; for, if you neglect your food, that terrible fiend, Delirium Tremens, will have you
in his savage grasp before you know it. Every morning after a spree, take a good stiff horn
of brandy, and soon afterwards a glass of plain soda, which will cool you off. Never drink
gin--it is vulgar stuff, not fit to be used by gentlemen.--When you desire to reform from drinking,
never break off abruptly, which is dangerous; but taper off gradually--three glasses to-day,
two to-morrow, and one the next day. Never drink with low people, under any circumstances,
for it brings you down to their level. When you go to a drinking party, or to a fashionable
dinner, sit with your back toward the sun--confine yourself to one kind of liquor--take an
occasional sip of vinegar--and the very devil himself cannot drink you under the table! Now
do you understand me, my dear greenhorn?"

Such language and advice, emanating from a boy of twelve, astonished me, and hurried me to
the conclusion that he must be a very "fast" youth indeed. I took a more particular survey
of my new friend. He was not remarkable handsome, but his face was flushing not with health,
but with drinking. A rosy tint suffused his full cheeks, and a delicate vermillion colored
the top of his well-formed nose. His form was somewhat slighter than mine, but he looked vigorous
and active. His closely buttoned jacket developed a full breast, and a pair of muscular arms.
His small feet were encased in patent-leather boots. Upon his head was a jaunty cloth cap,
from beneath which flowed a quantity of fine, curly hair. I really envied him his good looks,
as also his mental endowments. He saw that I admired him; and he liked me for it.

Such was Jack Slack, I may as well give his name at once, for I hate the trickery of authors
who keep the curiosity of their readers painfully excited to the end of their narratives for
the purpose of producing an effect. My professional habits as a writer prompt me to do the
same; but I must not forget that I am writing my own history, and not an effusion of my imagination,
which seems to be a prolific mother, for it hath produced many children, and (if I live) may
produce many more.

While I now write, the Sabbath bells are ringing in sweet harmony, and through my open window
comes the cool but mild breath of an autumnal morning. Yes, it is Sunday, and all the holy
associations of the sacred day crowd upon me. I can almost see the village church, and the
throng of worshippers within it, listening to the fervent remarks and exhortations of their
pastor. Then I can fancy the gorgeous cathedral, with its stained windows, its elaborate carvings,
its pealing organs, and its fashionable assembly of superficial worshippers. While others are
praying, pleasuring and sleeping, I am rushing my iron pen over the spotless paper, and wishing
that my penmanship could keep pace with my thought.--This is a digression; but the reader will
pardon it. There is one dear creature, I know, who, when her eyes scan these pages, will understand
me. But she, alas! is far away.

Where was I? Oh, speaking of Jack Slack. How well do I remember the night upon which first
I met him! I can see him now, with his mischievous smiles, his eyes full of deviltry--his scornful
lips--I can almost hear his mocking laugh. Yes, although eighteen years have passed since then,
the remembrance of that night is fresh within me, as if its occurrence were but things of yesterday.

May perdition seize the circumstances which led me to encounter him! He was the foundation
of my misfortunes in life. But for him, I might have led a happy, tranquil life; unknown, it
is true, but still happy. But, poor fellow! he is dead now. He died by my hand, and I do not
regret the act, nor would I recall it, had I the power. But of this the reader shall know hereafter.

That was my first night of dissipation--that was the occasion of my initiation into the mysteries
of debauchery. I had previously led a necessarily regular and abstemious life--to bed at eight,
up at six, at school by nine, and so on. (By the way, I never learned any thing at school--the
master pronounced me the most stupid rascal in the concern; and flogged me accordingly--good
old man! All I ever learned was acquired in a printing office.) Well, here was I at the age
of twelve, fairly launched upon the sea of city life, without a guide, protector, or friend.
What wonder is it that I became a reckless, dissipated individual, careless of myself, my interests,
my fame and fortune?

Jack Slack and I, arm-in-arm, entered Broadway, and proceeded at a leisurely pace up that noble
avenue. Many a courtezan did we meet, and many a watchman did we salute with the compliments
of the season. (There were no Brazen Stars,[B] nor M.P.'s, then.) One lady of the pave, whom
my companion addressed in terms of complimentary gallantry, said--"Little boy, go home to your
mother and tell her she wants you!"

I am now about to make a humiliating confession, but I must not shrink from it, inasmuch as
I sat down with the determination of writing "the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth." Then she dismissed the carriage which awaited them and went to a
nearby guest house where she found a room and wrote a letter to her father, which said in part, "I
know no longer what is true and what is a lie. Bastide is innocent and I have ruined him,
though my intention was to stand by him. Yes and no are in my heart like two dying flames. I would
go back whence I came; I would suffer an eternal deth and because the people live how they do,
I go where I must. It was already past midnight, but she wanted to speak to the landlord. She
asked him to send the letter by messengers to Perri. Then she asked the bewildered man to sell
her one basket of fresh fruit. He regretted that he had nothing left in the cabinet. Passionately
begging, she offered ten, then twenty times the price and then threw a piece of gold upon the
table. "It's for a dying man," she said. "Everything depends on it." The man looked anxiously
upon the pale-lit face of the noble woman and finally told her to wait for the neighbors to wake
and call for Clarissa. When she was alone, she knelt in front of the bed, pressed her face into the
pillow and cried. After half an hour, the host came and brought a basket of pears, grapes,
pomegranites, and peaches. As he held the sealed letter, he shook his head and looked back.
Should he get curious, he could hold the letter against the light.

The
streets were deserted and half-filled with moonlight. the small window of the small house blinked lazily and
a night watchman stood in the doorway and murmured like a drunk. In front of the prison building, there
was an empty space. Clarissa was sitting on a bench and when she became
thirsty, she ran to the fountain and drank her fill.
 Pitying my helpless condition--and, doubtless, prompted by the mischievous Jack--she
had carried me to bed, and had also retired herself, being actuated by a benevolent anxiety
for my safety. What a delicate situation for a modest youth to be placed in! Having, to my
no small satisfaction, ascertained that the lady was fast asleep, I arose so carefully and
noiselessly as not to awaken her. In truth, I was disgusted with the whole concern, and determined
to leave it as speedily as possible. A light was fortunately burning in the room, which enabled
me to move about with safety. A gold watch which lay upon the table informed me that it was
nearly midnight.--Leaving the chamber and its sleeping inmate, I crept down stairs, and, on
passing the door of the principal sitting-room, the voice of Jack Slack, who was singing a
comic song amid the most enthusiastic applause, convinced me that my interesting friend was
still rendering himself a source of amusement and an object of admiration. Without stopping
to compliment him upon the excellence of his performance, I approached the front door, turned
the key which was in the lock, unfastened the chain, and passed out into the street, just as
the clock of a neighboring steeple was proclaiming the hour of twelve.

My head ached terribly after the champagne which I had so profusely drank, and besides, I felt
heavy and sleepy to an extraordinary degree. Unable to resist the overpowering influence of
my feelings, I sat down upon the steps of a house and was fast asleep in less than a minute.
Then I dreamed of being seized in the powerful grasp of some gigantic demon, and hurried away
to the bottomless pit. I certainly felt conscious of being moved about, but my oblivious condition
would not admit of arriving at any definite understanding of what was happening to me. When
I finally awoke, I found myself in an apartment that was far different in its aspect from the
luxurious chamber I had just quitted. The floor, walls and ceiling of the apartment were of
stone; there were no windows, but a narrow aperture, high up in the wall, admitted the feeble
glimmer of daylight. There was an iron door, and a water-pipe, and platform on which I lay,
and on which reposed several gentlemen of seedy raiment and unwholesome appearance. The place
and the company, as dimly revealed by the uncertain morning light, inspired me with emotions
of horror; and in my inexperience and ignorance, I said to myself--

"I must leave this place at once. How I came here is a mystery, but it is certain that I cannot
remain."

I arose from my hard couch, and approached the iron door with the confident expectation of
being able to pass out without any difficulty, for I imagined that I had fallen into one of
those cheap and wretched lodging houses with which the city abounds. (By the way, I may hereafter
have something to say with reference to these cheap lodging-houses. Some rich development may
be made, which will rather astonish the unsophisticated reader.)

To my surprise, I found that the door could not be opened; and then one of my fellow-lodgers,
who had been observing my movements, exclaimed:

"Are you going to leave us, my lad? Then leave us your card, or a lock of your hair to remember
you by."

"Will you be kind enough to tell me what place this is?" said I.

The man laughed loudly, as he replied--

"Why, don't you know? What an innocent youth you are, to be sure! How the devil could you come
here, without knowing anything about it? But I suppose that you were drunk, which is a great
pity for a boy like you. Well, not to keep you in suspense, I must inform you that you are
in the watch-house of the Tombs!"

This information appalled me. To be in confinement--to be a prisoner--to be associated with
a company of outcasts, thieves and perhaps murderers--was to me the height of horror. I looked
particularly at the man with whom I had been conversing. He was a savage-looking individual,
with a beard like that of a pirate, and an eye that spoke of blood and outrage. He was roughly
dressed, in a garb that announced him to be a mariner.

In the course of a conversation that we fell into, he informed me that he had committed a murder
on the preceding evening, and that he expected to be hung.

"We quarrelled at cards," said he, "and he gave me the lie--whereupon I drew my death-knife
and stabbed him to the heart. He died instantly; the police rushed in, and here I am. My neck
will be stretched, but I don't care. He always fled before her. The least of his word, his random movement fled before her.
When she spoke, he lowered his head and everything was silent in him. She went to women about
the galleries and he stood with his friends in the yard, so heard to joke and put it on with
a troubled countenance the arm over the neck of the horse.

Twenty-five days of the month he was away from the castle. The bearer
of important messages had to wait. Where is Don Philip? asked the
councils. Delighted at having
obtained my liberty, I posted out of the court room and found myself in Centre street. My debauch
of the preceding night had not spoiled my appetite, by any means; and, as I still had in my
possession the sixpence alluded to before, I resolved to produce some breakfast forthwith.
Aware that my limited finances would not admit of my obtaining a very sumptuous repast, and
fully appreciating the necessity of economy, I entered the shop of a baker and purchased three
rolls at the rate of one cent per copy. Thus provided, I repaired to a neighboring street pump,
and made a light but wholesome breakfast.

It was thus, reader, that your humble servant began to acquire a knowledge of the world.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] The last that was heard of Robinson, he was in Texas, and it was reported that he was married
and wealthy, his right arm he had lost in some battle, the name of which I do not remember. She had tried to conceal this fact in the quiet of night, but unfortunately the
guard discovered the truth. The guard let Sara go over to the murder scene as she was overtaken with
grief. To the lovers of exciting tales, this
story will be one of particular attraction. It will be issued by the publisher of this narrative.

CHAPTER II

In which I become a Printer, and am introduced into certain mysteries of connubial life.

Having breakfasted to my entire satisfaction and also to my great bodily refreshment, I entered
the Park, seated myself upon the steps of the City Hall, and thought "what is best to be done?"--It
was Monday morning, and the weather was excellently fine. It was an excellent time to search
for employment. A sign on an old building in Chatham street attracted my notice; upon it were
inscribed the words, "Book and Job Printing."

"Good!" was my muttered exclamation, as I left the Park and crossed over towards the old building
in question--"I'll be a printer! Franklin was one, and he, like myself, was fond of rolls,
because he entered Philadelphia with one under each arm. Yes, I'll be a printer."

Entering the printing office, I found it to be a very small concern, containing but one press
and a rather limited assortment of type. The clock already showed that they were well into the night when the boots
had been cleaned and the clothes had been brushed.
The rest of the house was asleep by the time she stumbled into the
crate near the cellar hatch where the girls shared a mattress. As I entered he looked up from his case and inquired, with an
air of benevolence--

"Well, my lad, what can I do for you this morning?"

"If you please, sir, I want to learn to be a printer," replied I, boldly.

"Ah, indeed! Well, I was just thinking of taking an apprentice. But give an account of yourself--how
old are you, and who are you?"

I frankly communicated to Mr. Romaine all that he desired to know concerning me, and he expressed
himself as being perfectly satisfied. He immediately set me to "learning the boxes" of a case
of type; and in half an hour I had accomplished the task, which was not very difficult, it
being merely an effort of memory.

It having been arranged that I should take up my abode in the house of Mr. Romaine, I accompanied
that gentleman home to dinner. 

Even between two cordial and civilized old friends, there was, this time, no jocularity. The situation
was too serious. Seguret's news, presented briefly to the President, evoked a deep and shaken
sigh.

His daughter, who he had expected to provide him peace in his old
age, had instead been the architect of disgrace.

When she answered
his call, the sight of the two men pierced her soul. Her grief was
evident on her face and in her body language. I will remark that although she had been the wife of Mr. Romaine
for a number of years, she had not been blessed with offspring, which was doubtless to her
a source of great disappointment, to say nothing of the chagrin which a married woman naturally
feels when she fails in due time to add to the population of her country.

Accustomed as I had been to the economical scantiness of my uncle's table, I was both surprised
and delighted with the luxurious abundance that greeted me on sitting down to dinner at Mrs.
Romaine's. I was equally well pleased with the sprightliness, intelligence and good-humor of
the conversation in which the ladies and gentlemen engaged, and also with their refined and
courteous bearing towards each other. I congratulated myself on having succeeded in getting
not only into business, but also into good society.

"If my dearly-beloved relatives," thought I, "could see me now, they might not be well pleased
at my situation and prospects. Let them go to Beelzebub! I will get on in the world, in spite
of them!"

