Transcriber's note:

      The author's inconsistent use of 'll as a contraction has
      been retained as in the original.

THE WATCHERS OF THE PLAINS

A Tale of the Western Prairies

by

RIDGWELL CULLUM

With Frontispiece by J. C. Leyendecker

A. L. Burt Company Publishers :: New York

Copyright, 1909, by George W. Jacobs and Company

Published March, 1909

To B. W. M. my good friend and counselor I affectionately dedicate this book

CONTENTS

CHAPTER                                                         PAGE
     I.  A Letter                                                  9
    II.  On the Plains                                            17
   III.  An Alarm in Beacon Crossing                              28
    IV.  Rosebud                                                  41
     V.  A Birthday Gift                                          54
    VI.  A Newspaper                                              69
   VII.  An Indian Pow-Wow                                        76
  VIII.  Seth Washes a Handkerchief                               87
    IX.  The Adventures of Red Riding Hood                        97
     X.  Seth Attempts to Write a Letter                         108
    XI.  The Letter Written                                      118
   XII.  Cross Purposes                                          127
  XIII.  The Devotion of Wanaha                                  135
   XIV.  The Warning                                             144
    XV.  The Movements of Little Black Fox                       154
   XVI.  General Distinguishes Himself                           162
  XVII.  The Letter from England                                 173
 XVIII.  Seth's Duty Accomplished                                184
   XIX.  Seth Plays a Strong Hand                                197
    XX.  Seth Pays                                               207
   XXI.  Two Heads in Conspiracy                                 217
  XXII.  Rosebud's Answer                                        227
 XXIII.  Love's Progress                                         239
  XXIV.  Rosebud's Fortune                                       254
   XXV.  In Which the Undercurrent Belies the Superficial Calm   267
  XXVI.  The Sun-Dance                                           283
 XXVII.  In Desperate Plight                                     294
XXVIII.  A Last Adventure                                        304
  XXIX.  Hard Pressed                                            315
   XXX.  The Last Stand                                          327
  XXXI.  The Sentence                                            337
 XXXII.  Wanaha the Indian                                       346
XXXIII.  The Capitulation                                        359

THE WATCHERS OF THE PLAINS

CHAPTER I

A LETTER

A solitary hut, dismal, rectangular, stands on the north bank of the White River. Decay has
long been at work upon it, yet it is still weather-proof. It was built long before planks were
used in the Bad Lands of Dakota. It was built by hands that aimed only at strength and durability,
caring nothing for appearances. Thus it has survived where a lighter construction must long
since have been demolished.

And it still affords habitation for man. Women, be strong, stand and crowded at the gates and
some of the neighboring rooms.

Golbasto was standing between two windows in the great room, facing the audience as a eagle
prepares to take flight. Momar smiling with his head down, feeling
Hurricane prematurely bent the wings of glory was about to descend
upon him.

As the national poet was always thinking about their business, even when pretending to favor
a friend coughed repeatedly to silence, and said:

- Since we wish to recite, allow that begins with the works of Father of the Masters. The great
Momar is not known as it deserves to be. There are many who are deceived with the best faith dividing
our national poetry into two kingdoms, one of which attributed to him and another to me. The
same add that Momar is inimitable and Golbasto love poetry in epic
poetry.

Error, huge mistake! Momar is great in all genres, and to prove I shall recite the heroic song to
the True Revolution inimitable work of which would authoring.

A burst of applause greeted the shameless flattery to the chief academic
and modesty interested the great poet.

- I recite that song heroic
- continued Golbasto - so you can see the difference between true
poetry and miserable and cynical counterfeits that are served to our
people perhaps at this very moment.

The allusion to the hated young poet who was reciting his work in the temple of lightning Black
was greeted with a burst of laughter sympathetic and intelligent
grunts.

After this preliminary success, Golbasto was released to the recitation of poetry by his friend
and protector.

     

The triumphant hymn to women's revolution began with a prologue, in which the poet begged the sun
to hasten his departure from the ocean foam and not arrive late and to witness the greatest event
in history. Golbasto launched with a clarion voice, the first verse:

Show yourself, oh, Sunshine! and with thy rays of gold ...

But instead
of showing the sun, as requested by the bard, which was the night
came unexpectedly in mid-afternoon.

The room was completely in the dark, all believed to have concurrent suddenly lost the hearing,
the mothers screamed with terror, spreading his arms instinctively to save their daughters,
the beautiful warriors laid their hands on their swords, but unable guess where the enemy was
hiding.

Some teachers accustomed to anything and not surprised to find the
scientific reason all the facts are realized after a few moments,
that this darkness was due to an outside release, to two massive curtains
that had fallen on both windows, interposed between their eyes and
light.

Momar wrists were scratched in the dark, wondering what the hell to service envious of its glory
had succeeded in creating this disaster ....

None of them thought that the man-mountain seat could be used as roof they had on their heads. In one
of his stretches of fatigue, had gathered Gillespie both legs, placing them casually, with
geometric accuracy on the two windows As the night suddenly created inside the room, precisely
the same time the poet invoked the sunrise.

After the first stunning surprise, eyes, accustomed to the darkness,
began to see weak, thanks to the dim light coming from the room immediately.

In addition, the slight movement of one leg of Gillespie leaked a ray of light, and this served
to everyone present would recognize what was the origin of the disaster.

Momar

was dumb, because the fact seemed so outrageous, I could not find words.

The guests burst into howls of outrage:

- Insolent animalucho! ... What audacity yours! ... Come to interfere with their legs party foul
high intellectuality! ...

A beautiful rose Guard officer, sword in hand, over chairs, and approaching
to a window threw a sword at the giant's leg.

Gillespie, who was half asleep, woke with a start. He raised one leg to put the ball at the
height results and scratched his chest with both hands he felt the
itch in the calf.

Then he dropped the leg again, and this, as if to obey a power Momar diabolical enemy, returned
to seal the window.

The crowd roared with anger, seeing in it a new insult for everyone.

Man-Mountain I wanted to make fun of them.

The military, eager to show his heroism to the children of marriageable
age, ran to the windows, peppering his giant calves steels.

Golbasto and Momar, infected by such heroic example, wanted to show that served to something else
to write poems, and took down a panoply a long spear.

They seemed outraged by this incident, which had come to disturb his glory, and holding four
hands the spear to puncture began to give a leg of the colossus.

This time the pain did jump to Gillespie, freeing the windows through which came to pour the
golden afternoon light.

Everyone could see Mountain Man crouched on his knees as he stooped
then his face contorted with pain, his eyes sticking to the two windows
to find out what evil insects were those who had crushed venom through
those holes.

The ladies were frightened to see those two big eyes that looked aggressive
peer.

But Golbasto and Momar, who had long and implacable anger of the weak when they feel wounded his vanity,
in collaboration continued driving his gun and shot a furious spear to one of the eyes that filled
the windows.

If Gillespie was not one-eyed, it was because the two poets, backing for his coup was more terrible,
diverted a little spear, tearing only one eyelid.

The man-mountain threw back his head, separating the eyes of the windows with a wink painful, but
immediately put her mouth on one of them.

There was a boil the kettle, then a sound of waterfall, and the crowd,
shouting, began to flee to the interior rooms.

Zas! ...

Gillespie, not knowing how to defend against evil swarm that had released a spittlebug in the classroom.

The
liquid projectile caught the two poets and brought down with his spear wrapped in a wave sticky,
which they did not know how to get out.

The giant continued to fire projectiles of the same species.

Ladies running, lifting their skirts to run faster. Other kicked falls on the floor, screaming
to get rid of this flood the bond that had nailed to the floor.

And the heroic girls Guard, not wanting to present their exciting
backs to the enemy, were retreating to the back of the room, making
pinwheels with their swords to defend themselves the bombing.

XI

That is the speech delivered by Senator Gurdilo and how the man-mountain changed suit

The, next morning, Professor Flimnap was long rush into housing the
giant.

Never had kindly offered his face looks like, alarm and bewilderment. Despite its lush meat, leapt
with youthful agility of the elevator to the surface plate the table, before the athletes responsible
for the crane had completed their maneuver.

Still far from Gillespie, opened his arms in despair and then joined
hands in an attitude pleading, crying

- What have you done, gentleman?

What madness was yours yesterday? And I believed him a man extremely sane! ...

I had never experienced so many emotions in such a short space of time. A fear overwhelmed dominated
him from hours before, and this fear was due to generous feelings, thinking More on the fate
of the Gentleman-Mountain than his own.

The terrible news of all occurred at the home of Father of the Masters had just surprised
at the most gratifying of its existence.

The day before he returned to the city late, after being feted and admired for several hours
over a hundred thousand women. His speech on the steps of the temple black lightning had heard
this huge crowd, interrupting him with applause. Its success was as loud as the young poet's
rival Golbasto.

Had never dreamed with such glory, even in times of adolescence,
when newly entered the studious life, his enthusiasm made him accept
the possibility of the most unprecedented elevations.

Slept badly, as the taste of his success seemed to repel the dream. But when dropped from his
university room, enjoying in advance the congratulations of some teachers and the envy of all his
pride broke triumphantly to reality. He heard the terrified The giant had done the previous
afternoon. Many of those who spoke had attended Momar to the talk show and they were still crowded
with indignation to remember giant shells, some of which had come
to splash them or to persons their families.

The Father of the Masters was in bed after this event, but without
known disease.

Golbasto, the great national poet, had retreated vowing revenge on the barbaric intruder.
The concurrent saw him with a bandage under his crown of laurel, for he had broken pate falling to
the ground under the trip Momar giant.

- What have you done? - Repeated the professor.

Many who witnessed the incident had forgotten the insolence of the man-mountain for concerned
only with the purpose of other action of his that seemed mysterious. After the giant crowd
was cleared from the halls of Momar, doing all the background to flee the house to escape the
bombardment liquid, raised his stature and went to a certain instead of the facade of the University,
releasing several shrill whistles with a hurricane.

Doctors scholars who stayed in their rooms trying to hide, believe
man-mountain that had gone mad and wanted to crush them.

But before closing windows of their homes could see how it ran on the roof a man wrapped in veils,
how the giant took one of his hands, putting it in a pocket of his suit, and how fast undertook
a march, led by this man unknown to the Gallery Industry, without waiting for the trumpets sounded
again and to meet the squad escorted him on his walk.

- What will happen now? - Continued the frightened teacher.

The gossips had been given to understand that the Father of the teachers suspected if intruder
would be helped by the giant Ra-Ra.

- I am afraid, gentleman, who by this time the police are aware that in fact the this man was
Ra-Ra and protected by you, came into our house to see her .... Popito
You, gentleman, mixing in political affairs of our country and support
in a way so brazen he a propagandist of the "male" enemy of peace
of the state!

Shiver I tremble for you and me.

Gillespie did not need to hear the teacher to realize the gravity of his act. But reborn their anger
to remember the sting of those pygmies, and believed still feel pain
her legs.

Why not sleep had left him alone? ...

However, the teacher's desperate gestures served to make him think he was humanity at the mercy
of that pygmy, despicable for him, but which could not feed or attend
to other care she needed him.

Flimnap, thinking she saw in his face a reflection of intense anger, recommended calm.

- Do not be exalted, gentleman, on the contrary, you should be prudent and conciliatory. I this will
be fixed eventually. Can you to apologize to the Father of the Masters. I explain that everything
is due to their ignorance of our language and our customs.

What worries me most is what Ra-Ra, but if no other remedy, and abandon the follow your destiny. Love
is selfish, gentleman.

Before you come to this land I had made the greatest sacrifices for the young. But now is not the same,
now you are here, and beyond anything I'm interested in him.

Professor seemed to have forgotten all the concerns that saddened him moments before, the jump-lift
plate. He had put his eye to a reduction lens to see Gentleman's face-Mountain, and this made
him smile sweetly.

- I think when the time - said insinuating voice - to show you my soul. While you were living sheltered
from dangers, I did not dare to say what I feel. Shyness possessed me anyone who has spent
his life among books, watching from afar to the people.

But after the madness of you, the situation is different. Perhaps the conflict with our Father in
Teachers will finally be fixed, but right now the situation is bad. You at large risks, and therefore
consider it appropriate to express what I had not dared to say a better chance. Listen well,
gentleman, and do not laugh at me .... I love him a little and I am interested in your happiness
.... Why not speak more clearly? ... I love you, gentleman, and want to spend the rest of my life
with you, dedicating his service at all.

Despite his bad mood for adventure in the University and by the persecution that could to experience
these Pygmies, of whom was a slave, Gillespie could not help but laugh. After stifled her laughter
to apologize politely

- Do not think, Professor, that I laugh at you.

I am very grateful for daring to such insolence. My laugh is a surprise .... In my country, rarely
a woman declares her love for man.

- Well here is extraordinary - said Flimnap -. Remember that all women go, and therefore for
us to the initiative in matters of love.

- Also - Edwin said - you forget the insurmountable obstacle that nature has established between
the two to create us with such different sizes.

I see you through your lens reduction and thinking I was excited for her size. Contémpleme as
I am, and be convinced that much I loved you would never be a wife of pocket.

- Oh, gentleman! - She interrupted plaintively -. Do not be materialistic in their views, not
display their feelings rude to judge people by their size.

Why not can love two souls through their containers completely different? ... Now that you I know,
gentleman, I realize that my whole life I've been waiting for his
arrival.

Always My soul felt the pull of the heights, always dreamed of something vastly larger. My
spirit viewed with indifference the pettiness of our everyday life.

I could only love a giant and the giant has come. Do not you think that a higher power has given
us to each other? ...

The Gentleman-Mountain just answered this question with an ambiguous gesture. But the hot teacher
continued:

- I do not demand that I respond immediately. I confess that this expression of my feelings
is a little violent and you did not expect. Except for the danger that threatens him, I had refrained
from talking about this for a long time. But in the end, what I should say already said. Think you
check your heart, wait for an answer.

What I needed let you know as soon as possible is that I am for you just a translator and
I look forward to participating of his fate, running their own dangers, if the situation worsens.

Gillespie,
holding back laughter again to shake his chest, he replied vaguely the passionate college. Obey his
instructions, study carefully preferences of his soul. But for now, the top priority was to
resolve the situation, which it claims seemed anxious.

- I shall leave you, gentleman - said Flimnap -. Anything with his remaining hand to hold pleasant
conversation, but that is sterile. I need to know news. Momar has powerful friends and must have
done something by this time against Ra-Ra. In addition, we must fear
the Golbasto.

Guess from here that his buggy pulled by three men, horses must be rolling Through the capital
since early morning. A screening will know what the dreaded poet! ...

Before disappearing for one of the hatches, still fell into the giant Flimnap to say quietly:

-
If you come to seek the Ra-Ra, not to strive to defend it, would be worse for him and for you.
Let abandoned to their fate. We must only think of our future. I always I believed that love
is not selfish not deserve the name of love.

And squinting eyelids caressing expression behind the glass of his
spectacles, the teacher disappeared down the ramp.

Only then will
the man-mountain lowered his eyes to look to himself, setting them
on his chest.

For the opening of his top pocket ajar saw head Ra-Ra, shrunk the substance of the shelter.

- Good you did it yesterday! - Giant said quietly, as if speaking to himself -. In Actually you're
to blame for everything that happened, in your damn idea to leave me alone go see .... Popito But
why not leave you, like me crazy Flimnap calls .... What the devil is this love that makes us
all make great nonsense, and even gives a grotesque to that poor woman so innocent and kind!
...

Giant eyes were resting on one side of the table club who had made during his trip to the jungle
of the emperors.

The presence of this primitive weapon you he smiled in a way disturbing to the Pygmies.

- I assure you, Ra-Ra - continued - the first people who come looking for you and annoy us at
risk of being killed.

But although this promise was barbaric, very much in Ra-Ra, it protested, poking his head recklessly
over the edge of the pocket.

- I believe it appropriate - said the pygmy - but in some time. Now it is useless. Must expect
our revolution ever closer.

Meanwhile, Flimnap ran the streets of the capital, learning of a series of news very disturbing
to him.

A teacher told him that Momar, for certain details that had reported some subordinates, was already
convinced that Ra-Ra was accompanying the giant. The Father of the Masters, accepting the suggestions
of his vanity, thought that men, the enemy of order, had suggested to the man-mountain discontinue
the idea of ​​gathering at the precise moment that the great Golbasto recite his verses, to
take away and a big win literature. In the early hours of the morning had had a conversation
with Popito violent, which he denied having seen Ra-Ra in the top of the palace university. Then
the influential characters left his bed, and was now in the presidency of the Executive Board,
recommending without doubt the persecution of the revolutionary mascula.

Flimnap Shortly after he met a group of news from major newspapers,
which were seeking from hours earlier.

They wanted to know your opinion on what happened in the party Father of the Masters, but
he said in an ambiguous way. I would fain have answered roughly to those insatiable curiosity chasing
him at all hours, but the gratitude we forced to be polite. All the
newspapers spoke with praise of his speech at the temple black rays,
complaining of having unknown for many years to so eminent a speaker.

Gave
reporters a story that was the worst. Gurdilo announced his desire
to make a speech in the Senate to order the man-mountain barely opened
the session. Perhaps he was already talking scary at this hour.

Flimnap
ran the government palace, entering in the wing occupied by the Senate.
His love for Gillespie suggested the boldest decisions. The shy professor,
who just days before was incapable of the slightest initiative, now
in its audacity astonished. Thought to speak to Gurdilo, if it had
not yet begun his questioning the government. Not known, but few days
before he was a celebrity, which dealt a lot of newspapers, could
well afford the freedom to make a visit to a colleague of glory. Within
the Senate, to ask for the famous orator, he was convinced that he
had arrived late. Gurdilo was already in the chamber and did not allow
visits distracting him while preparing mentally its awful speeches.

The
professor went to one of the grandstands for the public, looking down
between midwives forming the Senate, the fearsome Gurdilo, towards
which all eyes converged.

Flimnap poor never suffered torture equal
to that of listening to this person confusion between the public and
unable to answer. After his victory in the temple of lightning black
considered as tribune like the famous healer, but here was nothing
more than a mere listener that could be jailed if he dared to alter
his breaks the stillness of the majestic assembly.

She Senate, with
the face yellower than ever, the grim look, bent nose and a hissing
voice, attacked Gillespie for a long time, trying to match their shots
colossus rebound should fall on the high lords of the Executive Council.

He
made the history of all man-mountain who had come to the country in
the course of centuries. The first, according to the testimony of
ancient writers, ended up being a traitor to the Empire Liliput given
him hospitality, as it was with those of Blefuscu, which were then
enemies. In addition, returning to his monstrous home, posted as news
brought vague by Eulame, a book in which he ridiculed all Lilliputians.

Giants
who arrived later were barbaric and vicious people without college
education and a stomach capacity that had caused great shortages and
famines in the nation. Committed such excesses, which finally had
to delete.

And when it was accepted as a prudent measure to kill
these intruders, which were presented from time to time, with the
regularity of an epidemic, came the last man-mountain, and Executive
Council, taking off from tradition, he gave life. 

Here Gurdilo began
to speak ironically of the enormous influence that few teachers lines
and manufacturers had over the current government.

- Was enough -
he said - a poor pedant who teaches at the University on the useless
language of the man-mountain, which can serve anything, has been sufficient,
I repeat, they discovered such a giant pocket-sized book any of us,
with some lines crazy, typical of large animals, so that all false
intellectuals dominate our university organization, and are paid excessively
by the government, they saw a chance to assert their influence to
protect this huge intruder as a partner letters. And the high lords
of the government, before taking office had known nothing reading
the journal every morning, have taken the opportunity to be a false
importance of intellectual, obeying the instructions of his proteges
who monopolize University.

"I do not want to talk to the illustrious
Senate of expenditure from which the man-mountain from living among
us. This will be a speech utter another day, when you comprehensive
statistical data that I gathered. The woman's ammunition is done. The man's is nearly so. He turns, and
she turns to meet him. There is one swift embrace.

"Now!" she says in a low, soft voice.

There is an ominous crack of a revolver, but it is not fired in the direction of the Indians
whom the man sees are within a few yards of him. He sees the woman fall, and turns swiftly
to the tent door. The child instinctively turns and runs inside. The man's gun is raised with
inexorable purpose. His shot rings out. The child screams; and the man crashes to the earth
with his head cleft by a hatchet from behind.

CHAPTER III

AN ALARM IN BEACON CROSSING

A horseman riding from White River Homestead to Beacon Crossing will find himself confronted
with just eighty-two miles of dreary, flat trail; in summer time, just eighty-two miles of
blistering sun, dust and mosquitoes. The trail runs parallel to, and about three miles north
of the cool, shady White River, which is a tantalizing invention of those who designed the trail.

In the whole eighty-two miles there is but one wayside house; it is called the "half-way."
No one lives there. It, like the log hut of Nevil Steyne on the bank of the White River, stands
alone, a relic of the dim past. But it serves a good purpose, for one can break the journey
there, and sleep the night in its cheerless shelter. Bumping this, I asked the reason footman.

- Poor thing - he answered - and na malu, but the afternoon is almost
over, and we are entoavía Stork strips to measure your feet.

I was unsatisfied with the answer, but I insisted no further questions.

It took over an hour to cross the Harbour, which measures, for that line, about two leagues.
At the end of this tiring day, another surprise for me, new show, new ideas and new impressions.
A cliff in front, another right, another to the left ... Which of them would Chisco ...? For
the worse, by the first, the only one, although bad output was visible. This output was the result
of something like collapse of a huge wall built by Titans to scale back the sky. For one the
interstices of that heap of mountains dislocated, half and take a mossy of nut tree, gorse
and olive others, some of them have either robust or village of slender "whitebeams" (the tasty
tree and red fruit), with large red spots on the side, printed by the dry fern, and all part
of their skeletons rock showing through the tears in his clothes, was the road leading to the
end of my empecatada issue. But to get there we had to descend a slope that dizzy. Slide along the
sidewalk, slippery slabs as it, in ziszás, among thickets and sometimes shrubs, many uncovered
over the canyon, at the bottom, darkened by weeds on both sides, grumbled the waters of the streams
channeled homeless there to go to swell by capricious river flow paths that plunges our left and
across the Harbour.

To all this, the night was approaching, the yellowish tint of foliage was dying, highlighting on
the leaden dark of the mountains, gave the closest terms a cadaverous pallor; and bottom of
the cliffs where rotting vegetation was dead, rose pungent smell,
a whiff of tannin me nerves.

In presence of this new show and the plain of Puerto the back, it was not granite statue I
bloody fluid flints: the contemplation of the labyrinth Saw undaunted, Cueto steep and inaccessible peaks,
of harsh and dark folds of terrifying ravines and steep rocky hills, suddenly transported my imagination
the enthusiasm "archaeological" My father felt there contaminated them there conceived the Spaniard
of his hymns in all its savage grandeur, even dressed in skins and drinking blood horse, and
even got to see: I saw him, yes, resurrected in the flesh, the flesh and the bones of my own footman.
That strong body and tireless tow those locks, that Palo Pinto, who mimicked his right hand a spear,
that blue umbrella under his arm left, could be a bundle of poisoned arrows, that jutting jaw,
that powerful and imperturbable look, that face and tawny montuna ... Oh! digging a little
everything, no doubt, the Spaniard was primitive. I realized then resistance six years against
the invincible legions of Augustus, and shattered legions at the bottom of the gorges, or rolling
down the slopes tart, crushed by the rocks abstracted from the summits, the exalted sense of their
wild independence, the death cross before the yoke of the conqueror ... everything, everything
I knew and everything I felt, as that I understood and felt my father, unless she could live
among such intricacies and as elusive solitude, a man of my education, my feelings and my habits.

With these fantasies in his head and closed his eyes very often do not see the depths to my feet,
I went down the slope where and how it was my pony, to whose judicious firmness I had given
to blind faith from above, on behalf of itself Chisco, who preceded
me walking down the precipice to disengage I like the halls of my
house.

Tucked into the crack and a lizard, just gave way, "usgoso" and bewildered to lay their feet
with great care, my nag. At best, large canopies granite with brambles and wild roses mantling
scraping the head, while the I prodded the right side of the escajos
thorns, and the slightest slip of my horse could launch into the depths
of the left. A row of blue gum trees marks
the front of each, and, for the most part, a clothes-line, bearing some articles of washing,
indicates the back. Beacon Crossing would be bragged about only by those who helped to make it.

The only building worth consideration is the hotel, opposite the depot. This has a verandah
and a tie-post, and there are always horses standing outside it, and always men standing on
the verandah, except when it is raining, then they are to be found inside.

It was only a little after eight in the morning. Breakfast was nearly over in the hotel, and,
to judge by the number of saddle-horses at the tie-post, the people of Beacon Crossing were
very much astir. Presently the verandah began to fill with hard-faced, rough-clad men. And
most of them as they came were filling their pipes, which suggested that they had just eaten. 

XII

The next day I ate at my Aunt Medea with Don Benito and Uncle
Ramon.

Did the chronicle dance before sitting down to eat, but by occupying our seats, the conversation
ranged the subject. My aunt had had a furious quarrel that day in the Philanthropic Society I
do not know what purpose bazaar that his colleagues had allowed to dispense entirely it. To
hear us talk about the dance, we were forced to keep quiet, he directed two or three sentences
hurtful my uncle, having been allowed to attend the club and began to tell their journey. It
seems that this had been a field of Agramante: the emotion of my aunt had been made three times
a vote and three times he had been rejected. Furious, as she knew only be when stung his rage,
had left the company with his hat all bent, roaring like a lioness, with her skirt tucked up,
and on foot, with short, quick step, he had arrived home without interrupting the colossal series
of curses that had been fired from his hated mates.

My aunt was sitting at the table without appetite, excited as ever
because of the altercation I just tell without details.

His eyes, more congested than usual, shone in a sinister way. My Uncle Ramon went from a peaceful
mood to a complete annihilation, struck under fire those feline eyes.

The broad face of my aunt revealed the startling reflection of your veins drowned by waves a
thick blood lazy and motionless. When sitting at the table he had assaulted a thousand discomforts unknown
to her: hot flashes momentarily that his cheeks reddened lax fire blows to the eye, stabbing pains
in the neck, lightning, obscuration, beats and whatnot vague forebodings of a sudden attack crossed
prick your imagination and making it cry out from time to time with some desperate agitation:

-
Jesus God! What do I have?

Don Benito was calm, my uncle Ramon, submissive always looked at saving a respectful silence,
the idea of ​​a stroke he had crossed the mind, but, either by fear, and for restraint, kept
well to advise his wife moderation, rest and above all, the laxative that the doctor known
as Brown had established treatment many years ago. For him, the moderation of the fierce nature
of his consort was concerned a few pounds of salt from England, a drug that, given his faith
in its effects, would have saved a thousand disappointments, reestablishing a glimpse of the
tranquility of home.

Moments after the altercation, Aunt Medea had been attacked suddenly abundant evacuation of blood
from the nose, but in a paroxysm of his anger, trembling nervously of anger, had been content
with loud sucking in abundance and lots of water salt right arm tightly tied or put in the
back of his head impellers lustful proverbial fat key therapeutic
counseling popular.

From time to time he ran his hands through my eyes, in which he said felt an enormous weight;
was compressed temples, where pounding your arteries or wet with water glass that freckled face
and flat, under which burned a volcano of hatred and future projects of revenge. Was irrascible,
irritable, whooping like a wounded beast, the chair shivering under
the weight of her thighs and her husband plethoric shaken again timidly
caressing the treatment favorite memory of Dr. Brown.

- Not worth
all the annoyance they have given me, old caches bitches! - Exclaimed
with a voice coughed and a little shrill.

My uncle Don Benito and I we continued our program of abstention immutable force, silent and reverent,
respectful eating with that moderation which is confused with hunger modestly disguised as an appetite
discreet. There was no sound but the rustling rabid jaws tiburonianas My Aunt Medea, with some evil
pleasure, yet full of delight, he imagined crush the skull of one of its rivals in the bread coscorron
innocent gnawing their molars and shy and almost silent chewing of those feared likely to hurt the
ears Mrs.

Don Benito tried, however vainly, to open topics of conversation, but it was in vain, the attempt
would not start. My Aunt Medea returned to his imprecations, threw a challenge furious rivals,
the apostrophe in a thousand ways and raising a clenched fist, I swear revenge as a witch possessed
by divine wrath.

We finished lunch and went to serve the coffee. My aunt took up positions, but when standing
up, he felt something strange, something terrible going through your
head, wanted to step and sank down on the pavement.

- Jesus will
protect him! - Uncle Ramon said, opening his eyes wide to see it fall,
- and we over the terrible palsy, and ran to help his consort who
had fallen senseless at the foot of the table, making a strange noise
with his mouth full of foam.

Don Benito and I had run at the same time to assist my aunt.

His appearance was truly frightening; had fallen struck by a violent rush of blood; was unconscious,
unresponsive, relaxed and completely immobilizes.

It was an inert mass, in which only the persistence of breathing and
heartbeat that we perceive, testified that life was not extinct yet.

My uncle cried out for a doctor, vinegar and mustard plasters, and while they are applied abundantly
in Cyclopean legs of the lady, Don Benito and I ran for all doctors
in the neighborhood.

The ladies of the neighborhood, some of which were from the family relationship, immediately
attended to learn of the despair of my uncle.

All of them continued poultices applications in the calves, in the neck, in the soles of the feet,
thighs and arms, cut off his clothes and placed in his bed.

Going down the stairs with Don Benito to fetch a doctor, we collided with Alexander Brown in the
same front door.

- What is it, child, what happens? the whole neighborhood is abuzz ... "The house is on fire
?...-- us he asked.

- On the contrary, I think it puts out the fire ... Your employer appears to have just burst -
answered Don Benito with the most perfect calm.

- Who?

"The tiger? ... !...-- Finally said the brown with the accent of
a man who vents.

We returned at once, we had gone two or three blocks and we only found five physicians who were provided
with great satisfaction to our appeal.

My aunt was getting worse by the minute. His breath was rattling and excruciating, to each breathing,
cheeks, deprived of strength, were left unmade passively after returned
to become lax and lazy.

- Smoke the pipe - one of the doctors said
in a low voice - this is very characteristic.

My uncle heard the remark and he imagined the doctor wondered if the
lady had the habit of smoking, it responded with great astonishment
at the audacity of the man:

- No, sir, how do you imagine a woman
of this class?

... or a pipe or anything - added allowing certain movements of unexpected
energy.

The doctors smiled slightly and continued to examine the sick.

One of them introduced a feather in the throat. My aunt, insensitive, showed no signs of feeling.
The doctor made an distaste.

- You must mudarle bed - added ...

- Ah! yes - my uncle said with a grimace forced to hide a deep sorrow, - poor thing known how
serious it is!

Another of the doctors came to the ears of my uncle and asked him
a question.

- Pfs!

... For many years, sir, from singles - said it left his lips wander melancholy smile - if
we have never had children, and you know that ... Dr. Brown told
me yet it was possible and that ...

- Ah, yes - the doctor concluded
that certainly was a history amagado pathological my uncle's family,
- yes, Dr. Brown was a great practical.

At this time they approached the other peers. Had completed its review and were to hold query.
Have little to say about the sick, such was his serious condition.

According to opinion unanimously, it was a cerebral hemorrhage in
its most terrible form.

Always continued breathing laborious, the pupils very extensive and insensitive to the action
of light, and liquids just drank, stayed in the throat causing painful
throes those that impress both.

This last symptom was fatal omen. My uncle was shocked: his wife was dying slowly with no
mention of recognizing when he approached his bed.

- Do you have
a high fever? - Dared to ask one of the doctors who came out first
the query.

- No, sir, no, on the contrary, its temperature is rather
low.

However, it is probable now begin to rise much, if, as unfortunately we fear, it ends badly.
Is in a coma - he said, trying to confuse my uncle with a confusing
technicality - is a so apoplectic cerebral hemorrhage paralyzed.

-
Jesus help me and encourages me!

Four diseases at once! Who refuses to so much!

And the poor man, making a supreme effort to express the most supreme emotion, his hand to
his eyes and pulling hair nervously.

Don Benito, who was next to the bed, looked extinguished with a coldness that colossus perfect.

My
uncle did not dare approach the edge of the bed, the doctors had separate insurance and the outcome.

-
Come, sir - my uncle said one of them ...

My uncle came trembling, and almost dragged reluctant to duty ... the approach back: the dying
had a terrible aspect: the face was bruised, the breathing was difficult
and cavernous.

- The priest! - Some of the bystanders shouted as
doctors leaving the room.

He went to bed a fat monk, dressed in bright colors, impassive as
a seal, fat as a pig, his face flattened by the stigma of gluttony
and carnal desires, thick mouth like a satyr, stupid eye, ear of bat,
red cheeks like a clown.

Opened between fat and fleshy hands a book whose pages illuminated a puppet with a candle, and
erupted on the body in barbarous Latin and some prayers nasal with the staggering irresponsibility
of a parrot.

After he retired a few steps from bed, made a gesture to my uncle
to come over; and at that moment, my Aunt Medea still glared at her
husband, opened his mouth, sputum a blood clot and over ...

As women
began to make preparations to dress, and I took Don Benito my uncle
in the room.

Was observed at the time the face of my old comrade, - the comic solemnity that strove to maintain
an air gave Mephistopheles.

My uncle looked at him without understanding it, but it was suspicious
enough to explain that Don Benito was not as desolate as the occasion
demanded it.

I was expecting the word mocking the old bachelor was immediate.

We enclose in my uncle's room, locked the doors and Don Benito, with a side of Easter, opening
arms cried:

- Don Ramon ... Press, man! - And sought to hug my uncle.

- Oh! Don Benito ... Misery!

- Misfortune? Do I represent you the hypocrite?

Celebrate you, friend, the largest anniversaries of his life ...

And
my uncle could not contain himself; got rid of Don Benito and running
to the bed, got into it and deposited on the soft feather pillow that
buried his face, a smile of deep, voluptuous joy, he could no longer
contain within itself.

At that moment knocked on the door, opened it, the profile of Alexander smiling leaning out
of the slit.

- What? - I said quietly and with more serious in the world.

- Oh! - He answered very slowly ...--¿ you the sad, too? - And put that black a satanic face when
I said those words.

- Go - go ...-- said.

- Yes, I'm ... To search the drawer!

At twelve o'clock, my aunt was placed in the coffin of rosewood that Alexander had brought. He
had closed his eyes and mouth, but always kept his face gesture threat that was characteristic,
and the Holy Christ, that squeezed mechanically between waxed livid hands and seemed like the
attitude of an armed sentry to doze the case of a surprise. The female mulaterío house and neighborhood,
had invaded the room: there were plenty around the coffin two or three who took turns kneeling mulatto
on.

Clear is that the room had been covered in an instant and merino crepe black in honor of its
illustrious owner.

The news of his death had spread through the city, and as their influence in large social, despite
the political disasters of the deceased party, was of long standing, the house was full the night
of the eminences of the past, dethroned by this.

The first whom I met in the room, was with Dr. Trevexo. I had aged and emaciated! His legs and
arms unhinged, not palpable to through clothing, but always the same, the great chatter, diffuse
and insulseces narrator, great display platitudes, doctrines taken
to instinct, principles incomplete, always an enemy books; devastated
by the phenomenal growth of libraries and issues: furious against
excessive diffusion of scientific works, consistent supporter, unchanged,
unmoved of journalism: always quoting his collection of liberty cap
and The Sword of Damocles the papers he wrote after the fall of Rosas.

Poor doctor Trevexo! How the man who had been the first twenty years earlier, was Today the last!
How was arrested at his peak no go! I had the effect of a of those old photographs from a family
album, to which one has to laugh involuntarily. While the political world had progressed between
us, and seasoned with serious reading: in the Age of Disraeli and Gladstone, Bismarck and Gambetta,
in the age of Taine and Lanfrey, Dr. Trevexo lived with his Creole newspaper clippings, with
all his fame of the past capital and all its sterile informality
present and future.

However, what is the virtue and consequence of supporters! His party still believed in him: he was
always great orator, the great diplomat, the great journalist, the great lawyer, the largest
Argentine parties.

My aunt's death had shocked Medea.

His great friend, she resolved all times, losing in two revolutions, ready to make a new one
to his suggestion, was dead the whole game the crying, it was an irreparable loss so irreparable
that the largest newspapers in South America, gave him a sense obituary, long as a sermon in
agony, with many choice phrases, which began recalling with much detail to the ancient Greek
and Roman mothers, made them cross the path of history in multiple combinations of people,
and ended with a eulogy of the virtues of the deceased and a special
congratulatory gentleness of his character.

In this appeal, all the Faubourg Saint Germain de Buenos Aires, was presented the next day.
How is praising the merits of Ms. Dona Medea Berriedale! I sympathized with the sad story
of my uncle! Which had experienced painful loss! Even Don Buenaventura had left their busy schedules
to attend the funeral of literature! Do not reward thirty years of bondage, mute, enthusiast,
admirer of all his exploits and misfortunes!

A burial shaft in Buenos Aires need not be described: the employer knows funeral tastes of the
big city, in which prevails the large village, the convoy has to do Street parade in Florida: there
is no street to go to the Recoleta, and if anyone get the idea to change the itinerary, it would
be difficult for the dead or dead being of the aristocracy, or especially of high politics,
protesting resurrected the variation of the route.

My aunt had been very religious, although recently the victim of a parent Piarist who had graciously
removed several thousand dollars, his fervor for the friars and puppets partners ran their political
enthusiasms: so that at his funeral attended all main parish clergy, most correct, and one delegation
from each Guild: Franciscans, Dominicans, etc., incorrect under the
terms of personal hygiene.

Among this crowd of black ravens and browns, not missing a tribune ultramontane pedantic adequacy
stuck, he sibilant and hollow, great literary mummy, filled with
Blair and Herman, Gongorism specimen of Spanish, who sat in the carriage
of mourning, as if they had nailed to a stake, he maintained his solemn
seriousness to it with the utter desolation that caused the death
of that old whose virtues were at the end couples with sincerity of
their religious beliefs. Leading the group was the same dignity as
we have seen beside the bier, with its carnival uniform and his imperturbable
face colorinches seal.

While the box deposited in the vault of the
family, I got lost on the streets of the cemetery.

Vain much pomp!

How
could there be measured, along with daubs of native marble works,
imbecility and human pride. There pompous tomb of a rancher ... many
miles of land, many cattle, hides and wool have been raised that mausoleum
which is neither that of Moreno, nor the Garcia, nor warriors, nor
of the great men of letters.

There the royal tomb of a miser, beyond
that of an idiot ... pump following them in death. But this in no way disturbed him.

With great resource he went back to the prairie and tore out great handfuls of the rank grass,
and so contrived a comparatively luxurious couch for his foundling on the foot-plate of the engine.

By this time the men were returning from their search for the bodies at the ruins of the ranch.
The story was quickly told. The remains had been found, as might have been expected, charred
cinders of bone.

There was no more to be done here, and Somers, on his return to the track, sounded the true
note of their necessity.

"We must git back. Them durned Injuns 'll make tracks fer Beacon Crossing, or I'm a Dago."

Then he looked into the cab where the still form of the prairie waif lay shaded by a piece
of tarpaulin which Seth had found on the engine. He observed the bandage and the grass bed,
and he looked at the figure bending to the task of firing.

"What are you goin' to do with her?" he asked.

Seth worked on steadily.

"Guess I'll hand her over to Ma Sampson," he said, without turning.

"Maybe she has folks. Maybe ther's the law."

Seth turned now.

"She's mine now," he cried over his shoulder. Then he viciously aimed a shovelful of coal at
the open furnace door.

All his years of frontier life had failed to change a naturally tender heart in Seth. Whatever
he might do in the heat of swift-rising passion it had no promptings in his real nature. The
life of the plains was his in all its varying moods, but there was an unchanging love for his
kind under it all. However, like all such men, he hated to be surprised into a betrayal of
these innermost feelings, and this is what had happened. Somers had found the vulnerable point
in his armor of reserve, but, like the sensible man he was, he kept his own counsel.

At the saloon in Beacon Crossing the men were less careful. Their curiosity found vent in questionable
pleasantries, and they chaffed Seth in a rough, friendly way.

On their arrival Seth handed the still unconscious child over to the wife of the hotel-keeper
for an examination of her clothes. He did this at Dan Somers' suggestion, as being the most
legal course to pursue, and waited with the sheriff and several others in the bar for the result.

Good news had greeted the fighting party on their return. The troops were already on the way
to suppress the sudden and unaccountable Indian rising. Eight hundred of the hard-riding United
States cavalry had left the fort on receipt of the message from Beacon Crossing. The hotel-keeper
imparted the news with keen appreciation; he had no desire for troublesome times. Plainsmen
had a knack of quitting his execrable drink when there was fighting to be done--and Louis Roiheim
was an Israelite.

A silence fell upon the bar-room on the appearance of Julie Roiheim. She saw Seth, and beckoned
him over to her.

"There are initials on the little one's clothing. M. R.," she said. And Seth nodded.

"Any name?" he asked. Not all weapons were destroyed by "black lightning."
It was so great war material, which remained intact large quantities in many towns in the Republic.
These guns, rifles, machine guns and other deadly tools, as well as huge piles of shells,
are stored in the vast historical cabinets universities, and only we know them.

Some timid leaders spoke several times to destroy all this, but withdrew at last, thinking that
going after fifty years and the explosion and deactivation of such materials serve to arouse
the curiosity of people now who have no idea of ​​its existence.
 "Guess
I'll borrow your buckboard," he went on. "I'll need it to take the kiddie out."

The hotel-keeper nodded, and just then Nevil Steyne, who at that moment had entered the bar,
and had only gleaned part of the conversation, made his way over to where Seth was standing.

"Who is she?" he asked, fixing his cold blue eyes eagerly on the face of the man he was addressing.

"Don't know," said Seth shortly. Then as an afterthought, "Clothes marked M. R."

The blue eyes lowered before the other's steady gaze.

"Ah," murmured Nevil. Then he, too, paused. "Is she alive?" he asked at last. And there was
something in his tone which suggested a dry throat.

"Yes, she is," replied Seth. "And," he said, with unusual expansiveness, "I guess she'll keep
right on doing that same."

Seth had again betrayed himself.

Nevil seemed half inclined to say more. But Seth gave him no chance. He had no love for this
man. He turned on his heel without excuse and left the hotel to attend to the preparation of
the buckboard himself.

On his way home that afternoon, and all the next day, the Indians were in his thoughts only
so far as this waif he had picked up was concerned. For the most part he was thinking of the
child herself, and those to whom he was taking her. He pictured the delight with which his
childless foster-parents would receive her. The bright-faced little woman whom he affectionately
called "Ma"; the massive old plainsman, Rube, with his gurgling chuckle, gruff voice and kindly
heart. And his thoughts stirred in him an emotion he never would have admitted. He thought
of the terrible lot he had saved this child from, for he knew only too well why she had been
spared by the ruthless Big Wolf.

All through that long journey his watchfulness never relaxed. He looked to the comfort of his
patient although she was still unconscious. He protected her face from the sun, and kept cool
cloths upon her forehead, and drove only at a pace which spared the inanimate body unnecessary
jolting. What room or what cuartajo!
... I call him because of it used when staying in this house fine characters like you, or a
Bishop of here or there, or when a wedding in it and some days later ... until there is a trust and
is arranged so pretty in the 'lazy' in the kitchen: in winter, the fireside, and in summer
... the fresh ... Gravel!, Do not laugh because in the kitchen of my house is cold shivers
in August as left wide the two doors and the window has ... Just imagine what would happen
if we likewise tonight, and that we are still at the end of the fall! Do you see a door in the
wall left? Which is of my room sleeping there make your uncle sixty years, the rest, I say,
the first of life, to me slept in that bedroom on this side of the entrance: a lot of them with
your father, in the same bed, until, by walking on very often testerazos both under clothing on
who interfered who ... What's that permeate the entrained man! We separated, and poured him to
sleep alone in a room behind the ... Here have the table, pure oak, like banks ... Well-back ledges,
eh? ... as the edges of the table and four legs, I mean, no, that the legs are as shapely in
thread Like the cross braces that is below ... They also have some chairs tournament leaning
against the walls. In short, all kinds of rustic, but firmness and good quality, as is for people
of our size. I send the job to actively seek faith Baptism! Zanchetta, what will the moths! ...
This is the door of the room: we, the Part of respect. That's why I have given you ... Courtesy
of obligation, without the baby ... You see, just opposite my room. Do you understand? Then
pull inward.

And we went.

There now seemed more clear, not only by the double light of the lantern and candle, which burned
in burnished brass candlestick on a chest of columns of sockets and capitals of gilt bronze,
but because the room had no ceiling and exposed joists as the adjoining room, and was, like the walls,
well milled. Leaning against they had a couch, several chairs and comfortable contemporary
furniture, hung over this, a Eccehomo between two cornucopias of good sized bream, on the couch,
a Purisima and in front of these paintings, two of saints as well, all oil and frameworks gold,
but very dull now. The room had a large bedroom, and the entrance door her white curtains
on large flags contained in Roman nails. At the bottom of the bedroom, a wooden bed with high
end wall painted gilded moldings and medallions, red damask quilt and sheets with fine lace
and embroidery in the fold of the counter.

- You go to sleep - my uncle told me the lantern walking on all those luxuries - in the same
bed we have slept the Bishops of Santander and Leon ... Huh? How are you?

- It is great honor for me - I said -.

But I sleep more comfortable in it without the blanket damask and
embroidered sheets, mostly without the blanket.

- Man!

Then why do you want the good things but for occasions such as this?

I took some odd jobs to make clear to my uncle, who took my slight
resistance, which you sleep better and more carelessly than among
lace and damask, single coverage under the we use every day mere mortals.

-
Well, nothing, son - he said to me at last -: first, your taste, and
that is to be done in this house while you are there ... A good part
comes, cuartajo!

... The quilt will be and how much it interferes with her in the bedroom. Here's a doormat
for your feet ... I think no evil will come to you at bedtime, because these old chestnut soils
are cold as they themselves ... Huh? For this lacenuca, or as you llaméis "there" at the head
of the bed to put the light on top and put in ... See? this ingredient, I do not think that out the
way ... nor is it armchair in the corner ... Come here, come here to see ... As we are mortal
and no free of trouble, and the nights are so long now, and so obscure and so Carrejo cold and mostly
you do not know ... In short, do not tell you more. Well then: here hangers, with their corresponding
overall, nailed to the wall ... and in the opposite empty cupboard, which you can put a clothes
shop ... I think, pispajo! that much you bring, between him and the dresser and hangers, with leftovers
you have to fit ... For your prayers, some use it as a good Christian you are, to go to bed
and leaving her behold, at the head of Our Lord on the cross, and benditera next, with its water
corresponding ramuco bay and blessed, if you want to sprinkle around the room, because the devil
does not rest one point, and slips through the eye of a lock. Here the washstand with all the
accoutrements of cleaning ... and still plenty of room for another much more ... And with that,
I said you're at home. What you trouble, out with it, if something you want and not have it,
ask for it, which, as you have at hand, yours will be ... And now I leave you in peace and your
widths. When finished, warns that we are in the kitchen.

And he was shaking the lantern in one hand and requiring the other shelter that is slipping shoulder,
but coughing a lot and breathing very anxious.

Outdated and hurt that body death and could not resist without great losses and protests the bustle
in which he insisted the liveliness of spirit contained in it.

While busying walked in my room that I thought a lot, and not all
rosy.

The last part of my journey, night and raining, dark corridors of the house, the kitchen so
big, so dark at first, then look strange in light of the huge bonfire fur and things of my uncle,
the woman appeared suddenly gray, the dark moorland dining room, explored the dim light of lantern
four glasses clouded by scab; the silence of "outside" ... worse than silence: a distant sound
and intermittent rough, something which put fear into the valiant Don Quixote chest one night
in near Sierra Morena, and the other silent house stopped talking about My uncle had impressed me
badly. The best thing was my room table, large, without reaching for the giant, as its surrounding
and the kitchen well-stocked white furniture; but what it felt cold! And had not started the
month of November! Instinctively I touched the thickness of the clothes on my bed, and although
it was very considerable, I took the quilt red damask and put in place my heavy rug in two
folds. I felt frozen feet, and I fit fur-lined slippers, and I wrapped the body in a Russian coat
that was provided, it was determined to give me another chamuscón in the kitchen immediately.
In the room called my uncle, as well as the door between the dining room, there were other two had
to correspond to as many facades of the house. Out of curiosity I opened the little window
or "quadroon" one of the clearing leaves closest to me, and I saw everything black, very black,
through a mean to cristalejo, opened after the whole sheet, which led to a balcony stone ledges,
and even more black than I thought before that so it looked. In contrast, rumors from within perceived
distant and intermittent, since there were constant, more pronounced and closer. Should produce
the tumbling river a short distance of the house. This murmur was almost incessant roar and,
served as accompaniment annoying the patter of rain poured on the floor by the roof gutters. I
gave this "music" great sadness and closed the balcony door but hurry.

Leaving the room with the candlestick in hand, I found the gray woman busy setting the table, in the
light of a lamp of three burners, hanging from a wooden bar, subject from one end to a ceiling
joist.

It was not unpleasant, indeed, face of that servant, and well look, until there were traces
of having been beautiful in his youth. We expressed a laconic had classical overtones, and responded
welcome to the questions that I risked it, to talk about something a little brighter the dull
color of my ideas. So I knew I was called Facia, which served very young at my uncle and that
she thought he died, if that was the will of his master, whom he loved and respected as a father
and lord, and even with that not quite the great benefits paid I owed him. He and his wife
had picked up an orphan and helpless, giving it since then good education and little work,
food plentiful, and what is more important than that, love and shadow. All this I was saying as
the careless, over short periods and not looking at the face, but reflecting his true expression
of melancholy sweetness that was very interesting as he moved slowly back and forth, putting here
a dish after pass with snow-white canvas, and there a glass or fork. In this way, and throwing
the conversation I to that side, even told me that his master had always had a health 'of fierru
"until One night, a few months ago, after a week of cold deprived him not to walk the world had woken
up "ajuegándose ASEAN, with a chest jirvor, a color wax in the face, and a look of terror in
the eyes desaflegía. " He left it, but not to raise its head. "Tristezón and acobardao", as was
another man. The cough choked night, and spent in the air half of them. "Entrol malenconía"
of the darkest, and if I came not to go to his side, he is "like sighs." "This, and too" God
knew how far the car would not mired forever.

And the poor woman, her eyes misted over, was just a voice in his throat to say this. A good
door had called me to be cured of sadness!

Aggravated they had taken from my room with the spread of the facia,
I withdrew from her comfort with two formulas, which for me would
have liked me, and went straight to the kitchen.

IV

My uncle was there, sitting on the bedside chair, and left in the
bank that followed immediately, a very big parish priest, with cassock
of cloth, velvet cap worn, and hands a very severe cachavona; border
to two, with the fire between them, another character even bulkier
than the parish priest, head gray and fat, sallow face and eyes bulging
at the same bank, but a respectful distance from the subject, Chisco
wiping the mud off their legs by the fire, and beside her, and crouched
on the floor without disturb anyone, with a wooden spoon in the right
hand and left handle a pan placed on the trivet, a young man of blue
eyes, beautiful and abundant hair blonde and body well into meat.

When you get me in the kitchen, stopped the loud clamor of conversation that I had committed similar
dispute since the passage immediately, and everyone in the group is faced with me suddenly.
Descubrimerlo me then and walked a few steps to the plateau of the stove.

- Hello, hello - my uncle said to me -. And come looking for the grace of God, eh? I happy, man,
I'm glad ... Let's see, take, take it ... Well you can not because you're busy ... You, Chisco,
take it the spotlight that comes in hand ... Go - she added, looking alternately the Priest and
the big man from another bank - here you have it already: this is
my nephew Marcellus, the son My late brother Juan Antonio.

Huh? What? What to ask in print or on clothing? ... See - told me - these gentlemen come to
visit ...

Then he straightened to the question, which seemed giants, particularly the layman, who got
his head to the shoulders within the chimney, but and the priest took off his cap, and the other the
chambergazo with that covered a fraction of the white mop that is overflowing around the perimeter
of the stubborn. I was given two separate handshakes, that made me see stars, and they walked
back to sit, my prayers, and sat me also to my uncle's between him and the parish priest, he continued
the first, pointing to the second:

- Mr. Don Sabas Peñas, pastor of the town since he sang Mass ... Ago and far! because I warn
you not drop a quarter of the three drives and a half ... They are counted along well ...
Good friend, good adherence to their duties, though, and very learned in Latin of all kinds ...
and put a bullet in the heart of a bear without a pulse shake him ... Not known other vice.

The
Cure released here a laugh that echoed through the funnel of the chimney, and even mumbled
a breviary Latinos could not understand.

After my uncle said, referring to the front pew hombrazo:

- The Lord ... Men - said facing him suddenly with him - will you
let me give all your passport once, to finish first and understand
each other better?

You know that I have learned well in memory ...

The hombrazo bank shifted its growling a bit and finally said, his
voice hollow and resonant:

- In the passport you call it kind of
offends me, and always to be affixed sunlight itself: well you know.

But watch out for the jingle! because there are mouths to the same Creed of the Mass do not
sound like it is ...

- This mouth is mine, watch it!

- I say that there are those mouths, I say no more than that - said the hombrazo.

- Santo and current, but I am coming to wonder if going or not going
to know my nephew, all your passport, cuartajo!

- And I reply that
it is honor for me, can not offend me.

Beyond that you see, and no more to say.

- Well, listen, Marcelillo, which goes beyond the document: Don Pedro
Nolasco of Castañalera, was mayor of the Royal Valley in 1832, alderman
in 1800 thirty, deputy mayor in 1827, trustee in 1825, former employee
in the laundry room of Messrs. Botifora Wool and Company, outside
of the city of Valencia ... Command and control.

- You see? - Hombrazo
jumped here, with a booming voice that stunned.

Already sacastes leg! ... And the jicistes!

- What? - My uncle asked, feigning surprise, while Cure and launched bubbling laugh Latin and
I do not know what to think of everything ...

- Hey, you, young gentleman - he said to me then Don Pedro Nolasco, somewhat shaky voice -:
is the truth that I have been, and proud, all those things you've
heard ... but against the "command and control" of the auction, protest
once, twice, and two million of them.

- It appears from the papers
- said my uncle with great fortitude.

- And much has - said Don Pedro
Nolasco - but with your account and reason in groups I published at
the time, when things were a firmer step now ... Yes, sir; there was
good and at the point, but it is not where you just put it with bad
intent Did you have always ...

- That is aggrieved! - Cried my uncle
smothered by coughing.

- Of that I'm missing you I'm complaining
for no reason yo!

- I have not missed!

- I sure did!

 His appearance was dirty, unkempt. His fair hair, very thin and getting
gray at the crown, was long and uncombed, and his moustache was ragged and grossly stained.
Yet she loved him with a devotion which had made her willing to renounce her people for him
if necessary, and this means far more in a savage than it does amongst the white races.

Steyne put on his greasy slouch hat and swung out of the house. Wanaha knew that what she had
said was right, Nevil Steyne encouraged Little Black Fox. She wondered, and was apprehensive.
Nevertheless, she went on with her work. The royal blood of her race was strong in her. She
had much of the stoicism which is, perhaps, the most pronounced feature of her people. It was
no good saying more than she had said. If she saw necessity she would do, and not talk.

She was still in the midst of her work when a sound caught her ear which surely no one else
could have heard. In response she went to the door. A rider, still half a mile away, was approaching.
She went back to her washing-up, smiling. She had recognized the rider even at that distance.
Therefore she was in nowise surprised when, a few minutes later, she heard a bright, girlish
voice hailing her from without.

"Wana, Wana!" The tone was delightfully imperious. "Why don't you have some place to tie a
horse to?"

It was Rosebud. Wanaha had expected her, for it was the anniversary of her coming to White
River Farm, and the day Ma Sampson had allotted for her birthday.

Wanaha went out to meet her friend. This greeting had been made a hundred times, on the occasion
of every visit Rosebud made to the woman's humble home. It was a little joke between them,
for there was a large iron hook high up on the wall, just out of the girl's reach, set there
for the purpose of tying up a horse. The squaw took the girl's reins from her hands, and hitched
them to the hook.

"Welcome," she said in her deep voice, and held out a hand to be shaken as white folk shake
hands, not in the way Indians do it. 

Was open and I slipped inside. There was no more than a bed in the same style as mine, but large,
calls marriage a crucifix and a wall benditera the headwall, a comfortable, two hangers, a washstand,
a cow couch, two chairs and a rug. The bed was already made, the floor swept and all things
in order, a sign that my uncle had but I got up early. I looked out an open window on the east
wall next to a cupboard, and saw what I had already suspected: the black rocky place, mottled
vegetation cracks wild and separated from the house through an alley slope, slippery slabs.

Returning
to the dining room of the Hall, I found myself with my uncle who
entered it by the front door.

Came weary, leaning on a cane. In the light of day it seemed very different from its design what had
seemed to artificial light. The thin white skin of his face was a shade blue, and in her eyes
and her mouth a very strong expression of longing. However, his "humor" was the usual, and if
otherwise dissimulation, was not known. Was amazed to find myself up so early. Come to see
what was in me if I heard stirring at bed, to enter, in this case, to open up the balcony, if
he wished, and if not, to have pleased to give me good morning. I thanked him very much for
your care, and after hugging him asked how he had spent the night and why so early.

- As always, the son of the soul - contestóme, coughing and wheezing
-.

And may God grant me the worst. In good health, I woke up at dawn, since I have such bad sleep,
I long much the sun, and everything and thus, too much time in bed.

It seemed that the chill of the early morning dew was not feeling good, and so I told him advising
him to beware of him.

- That will be with you - he answered with his usual jocular air -, accustomed to living between
crystals, but among the montunos around here! ... Woe to you Celso uncle the day I can not eat
with a casing of the grace of God! But, let's see, how about you? Have you breakfast and a little
more to your liking? Because there is not so at home, like I said
last night.

And if you have not thought about it, what piece of junk you thought? ... Look, as a lack of
candor! ...

I told him what I was entertaining since I was up and what he had
seen, and I replied, clutching his arm at the same time pulling me
toward the interior Carrejo:

- By the life of eight glasses, man!

... Well, look, in part, I'm glad you started where it started: so you still the best for last ...
Come here, come here!

And he took me in tow to the kitchen, where I found the woman gray, Tona and Chisco, sitting
the lazy and having lunch with some fried cornbread.

Diéronme cheerful good morning, rising very polite, and only time I left my uncle to change with
them a few words, because as soon as he opened a door near the table and on the same wall,
began to call at his side.

Obeying him, I went to a wooden balcony and very much blown line, half of which fell the courtyard
of the stables, which did not pass the center of this facade, and the other half outside. This
could see the whole picture and unhindered. Barrier formed front crossed the mountain opposite the
hill on the left, and another that was to my right, well populated with vegetation at the base,
very dark brown in the middle, from top to bottom, of what might be called its trunk crudísimo
green on the other half, and with the huge gray head, like a skinned skull, dry environment to
the left shoulder with the white bones in the air too. I had the effect that vast green patch,
fine and juicy, then almost face illuminated by a ray of sun, a patch
of velvet rich in a garment of coarse sackcloth.

Forming an angle with the mountain and leaving a gap between the two, ending, crowned ridges
and peaks, which descended from the East brushing it home side with their Bardales.

Within this framework all that looked like a hooded colossi contradanza, extended a snip arable
land in pieces, and boronales prairie, the first of a green velvety, and the latter with thatched
note that gave them the dry stalks, not yet cut, freshly picked corn. From my observation and
this harvest, coming down the ramp toward mountains opposite, and very steep at the same time toward
the river, a rocky weed bristly and crossed paths and Cambera communication with the people whose
houses were, made a flock at the top of the harvest, with the church in the middle, it seemed,
and it was in substance your pastor. In all buildings, with façades lavaditas and doors and
windows wide, I saw so many sides unhappy, sickly beings, mouth and wide-eyed, eager to air and
light that they were missing. And among those faces had a number of expressions, from the pathetic
compassionate to the comic and the grotesque. Was winning some of them take a handout, to soothe the
anxieties of the stomach, waste or a hat to replace the crumbling
chimney, and all of a handle to steady without rolling up the mountain,
in the violent attitude that I saw them.

I was so embedded in this lineage of visions, that even I learned of the reports he was giving
me everything my uncle on the main square. It seemed the entire valley, height relative to
its frame, a trifle choked, and fallen considerábame clouds in the
bottom of a large thimble.

What would Chisco idea of ​​heavenly glory, when put only one point
higher than that in the scale of the beautiful and admirable?

Eternal God, how I envy the birds then it flew!

- Tell me, man -
I asked him once, and never thinking that maybe he cut an enthusiastic
speech just on the breadth and health of the valley - where do you
get out of here?

- Jacia HERE? - I asked him in turn.

- Well ...
to ... outward toward the world, we - I replied I flustered as a little
boy careless, fearful thoughts I discovered that I had started the
question.

- Jacia the world! - He repeated with a laugh -.

Well it's funny occurrence, Pispajo! We are here "on the dial or what?

- I meant - I said with a laugh counterfeit celebrating the question of my uncle - that what
are the main outputs ...

- Ya, ya, and I thought I had soaked - he answered it, leaving the
air suddenly roistering - occurrence but as yours is either a joke
mayor, and I'm like ... Well I'll tell you: one of the main outputs
is the way to where you came last night, the next door ours.

- Current.

-
And the other is what is down there on the left hand of the river
the same output.

Can not you see a road that goes over it following all the side? The bridge is here on the left, among
those thickets. You may be confused with them so old that is ... As for that way it goes ...

- How far?

- Far!

... Piece of junk! to the sea, if you should.

- Well, but where?

-
For downstream, the river below ... from town to town.

Do you want to name them one by one?

- No need.

- Until you come to a road.

If you follow the right, because you pull it mundane, will follow,
and if you're happy with less, he crosses, and not the vera apartándote
river, in no time you'll hit the Jocic at sea ... Look, man, here
you see me and over the years that I have, do not reach the fourth
time I've been to Santander.

The first with your aunt, recently married to her.

Then there was the royal road of which I speak, which is yesterday,
and had to go looking further.

We were on horseback, as always has been since here for the wealthy.

She, in a blue velvet chair and cloves gilded with wedding finery, fashionable then. Campara
really, because it was hard nice weekend ... Piece of junk, if it was! We ate quickly and jicimos
night on the town of San Vicente, The next day opened doors and windows to see us leave ...
Look, man, little more than a month before he left Spain, a clean shot, the last thief Pepe's
Bottles ... Fully. Well then, stop bit in the city because we did not like that. The second
time was a result of the twenty-three, with a relative of the promise, he wanted, like me, see
how things were going in the world, after taringa who had taken the idiots of the "Pitita."
Cuartajo, what gave it fulfilled ... and what were those carried deserved! For the third yesterday,
as they say, no more than pleased to know I own the road what it was of fierru had just premiered
... And to count, then found out you do not pass twelve which I have left the valley for more
than two leagues ... And I assure you that never sleep out of it, dream JICE art, and all the food that
is not my home, I have always known to stuffing without substance and I do not see these picachones
overhead where I walk like I do not see that thing like no trace, and even the sea of I think
a pozuca coast compared to the widths of the valley ... Of houses in Ringle not speak to me, piece
of junk! because only in mind I'm short of breath and I ajoga hiccups ... The truth, Marcelo ...
Every man for himself, and with each other. And in this respective, of knowing you have in this
valley there are people who fall for old without leaving him more beyond the running of "encourage"
a dog with asthma. And die as satisfied as if jartura the world die of you know, as has happen
to me tomorrow. Believe me, son, the less burden cravings out of this life is more passable the
path of another. Some mine Jalla digging in a corner of his garden, and some people does not
give her half the land stirring Christendom. Now, you tell me who is more fortunate of the
two and more worthy of envy ... Gravel! and go on with the story, as I give leave for the atajaderos.
Where we stayed with her? What else do you want to know?

- For the moment - I replied, astonished at his former vivacity of imagination and freedom of
"Peak", which seemed incompatible with the condition that you had - if the landscape widens
beyond the gap where the river seeps.

- On the contrary - he answered -: as you bend the corner, the peaks again encalabrinar beside
the river, as soon as one side to another, if not both at once. Widths of them are not even the royal
road: half day of shooting, water down a horse good feet, a walk, speak, and short ... In front
of that gap have that other of the right hand, which gets a strip
that will end in a point in there.

Do you see? at the foot of the mountain above stained green. As for the alleys is choice but
to go climbing up the brambles ... In short, man, get that in every shatters you see a mountain
of them, there is a path where these people go through the portal
as of the church and walk and take the air and please the eye and
healthy unemployed men chest, like you.

You'll see, piece of junk! and see what is good.

- I hope so - I answered untruthfully than I thought -. And tell you - I added pointing at the same
time with your finger there - what does that green spot in which I I had noticed before you
mentioned it to me?

- Oh! - Contestóme raising both arms at once - that's the richness of the place, friend! That is the
"Prao-Council" here, because there are other people who have theirs appropriate, but not like
ours. Quia! Pispajo as you want! Is every one of these neighbors: a wealth of grass that is shared
"by adra" every year.

You'll see, you'll see what pilgrimage is assembled on the day of harvest, if you take here the first
arriving in August ...

- But how in the world - asked truly amazed at what my uncle told me - is can mow in that ravine,
and down into the valley what it is mow, much less climb there to mow and pick it up?

My uncle laughed at what he called my innocence, "with as much as I knew the world", and promising
explaining what amazed me the time the request "on the ground" would not tell me more.

- And in settlement - he concluded - what do you think of everything you've seen? ... because I
do not think miss anything you have not set eyes.

- Yes, sir - I
said to the point -: missing something I'm looking for them since
I started looking this morning, and I find it anywhere.

- And what
else is it, man?

- For a span of flat land.

- Piece of junk! - Cried
my uncle here, looking at me with astonishment painted on the eyes
- how on earth Jaller's has what not?

- Do not! - I cried in my turn.

-
No, man, no - he insisted with the utmost seriousness -.

I understood that you knew the running here as gospel.

- And what that is that?

- That there is in this whole valley plain
Don Celso room.

"Oístelo now? - Added laughing and staring me in the face with his little eyes of fox -. Then
watch it.

And laughed again, and I laughed myself, but lip service, thus leaving
both the balcony, we returned to the kitchen, lazy as I felt like
eating breakfast that morning.

At that breakfast and lunch in the acquired two new data, which resulted from little account added
to those already possessed: the bread was made in the tavern batches
each midweek, and there was no other than corned beef, except Sunday,
which killed a cow in the village.

Knew there was fresh, good and every day, more than milk and their
preparations ... precisely what was at odds with the likes of my palate
and the my stomach juices.

A few nights I spent in my life so long, so sad and so unbearable
restlessness, as of that day.

Because already seen and recognized in all its phases, across, over and deep, the land on which
I had to put up a fight, but fight to death against habits and refinements
of my life man of the world, complacent, picky and "elegant" that
meat had me trembling.

Ay! all that my strength built in Madrid in the heat of reckless enthusiasm and sentimental moments
breaks down, and the cold reasoning that I had covered in hours of sanity to fend off the attacks
of my uncle when I called him until by love of God, revived in my head with a push and a colorful
force that frightened me. Sucedíame then what the reckless that a false pride, a nervous start
and poorly disguised vanity, descends to the bottom of a cliff. Already down, and made the men,
and showed her coming up it will go the boldest ... Current.

But now we must climb. How? Where? ... And there she is, merciful God!

Only three ways I could return to light and freedom in the world, or at the end and finishing
of ... (How awful! To trip over the course without having sought me with desire I hated), or
the restoration of the poor guy, which is impossible at his age and
what deadly ailment suffered, or I get him all to low at best, rolling
luggage when I felt like it and go back to Madrid by the shortest
route, which I thought was a dirty trick that could cost the life
of the kindly octogenarian, for whom my presence in their house seemed
to be the bread and the sun that nurtured him and cheered him.

That is, two with the camera, God knows how long, and not franquearía I never, repugnance
of my consciousness. In short, an eternity.

If in the meantime had been in me a natural inclination, any ability of making even pleasurable to
many men, who are villagers, country life, thank goodness, but for Unfortunately mine, all
in all I was missing. I was not a hunter, and had handled other weapons the trim in the halls
of fire, or understand a word of cattle, or crops, or of trees, or vegetables, or painted
or made verses, and with respect to Mrs. Nature that of the lofty
mountains and valleys and shady forests melancholy and diaphanous
mists, and the symphonies of 'soft Favonius "between the bare branches,
and the roar of the hurricane on the revolts elusive deep alleys,
seen up close, better than a mother, I thought stepmother cruel jailer,
shivering with fear and gave me his face grim, the closure that I
had and entertainment that gave me ... And all this had to be added
to the winter with its cold, its fogs, its rains and its blizzards,
was already hovering peaks above the contour and the house of my uncle
... And although, for mercy God, I do not happen there than he would
be so long, so long!

... Devoured many books without a shred of substance them out! Chamuscones many in the kitchen!
Much indigestion bullshit! Many short rides! Counted how many cracks in the soil mechanically
with eyes!
 More, it was evident that he belonged by right to that gathering.

Despite the display in the dimensions of Little Black Fox's house the interior revealed the
old savage. There was nothing civilized about the council-chamber. There was the central fire
of smouldering logs, without which no Indian can exist in summer or winter. The smoke passed
out through a square chimney in the middle of the roof.

In a large circle the chief's councilors sat perched upon their haunches and swathed in their
blankets. There was not a seat or table there. They sat in their councils as their forefathers
had done before them, their leader in their midst with nothing but his youth to distinguish
him from those who were his subjects.

The debate proceeded in its spasmodic fashion. There was no haste, no heat like in the debates
of civilized folk. Each man was listened to in respectful silence, which might have served
as an example to modern legislatures. Nevil spoke like the rest in their low, musical tongue.
Whenever he spoke it was noticeable that the great, wild eyes of the chief were turned upon
him with interest. But even he seemed a mere unit in the debate, no more and no less, unless
it were that Little Black Fox was more influenced by what he said than by what was said by
the others.

At length, well on into the night, the meeting drew to a close. The business in hand had been
threshed out and a decision arrived at. The warriors and the men of "medicine" filed slowly
out. Even in this there was a certain formality and precedence. Each man addressed his chief,
shook hands, and passed through the door. And no two went out together.

When the last had gone Nevil and the chief remained alone in the bare room. Little Black Fox
rose from his pile of skins and stood erect. He was a mere youth, but of such shape and appearance
that one could easily understand the epithet "romantic" Rosebud had applied to him. He stood
at least four inches over six feet, and dwarfed even Nevil's height. But it was in the perfect
symmetry of his lithe, sinuous body, and the keen, handsome, high-caste face where his attractions
lay.

His eyes were the eyes of the untamed savage, but of a man capable of great thought as well
as great reckless courage. There was nothing sinister in them, but they were glowing, live
eyes which might blaze or soften in two succeeding moments, which exactly expresses the man's
character. He was handsome as Indian men go. Not like the women. They are often beautiful in
a way that appeals to any artistic eye, but the men are a type for study before they can be
appreciated.

This chief was in the first flush of manhood, and had attained nothing of the seared, bloated
appearance which comes to the Indian later in life. His face was almost as delicately chiseled
as his sister's, but it was strong as well as high caste. The eagle beakishness of his nose
matched the flashing black eyes. His mouth was sensitive and clean-cut. His forehead was high
and broad, and his cheeks were delicately round.

Nevil became a wretched, unkempt type of manhood in comparison. In form, at least, this chief
of twenty-one years was a veritable king.

He smiled on his white councilor when the last of his own people had departed. He thrust out
a slim, strong hand, and the two men shook hands heartily.

"It is slow with many in council," the chief said, in his own smooth-flowing tongue. "You,
white man, and I can settle matters quickly. Quicker than these wise men of my father."

There was a flash of impatience in his speaking eyes. Nevil nodded approval.

"They think much before they speak," he replied, in the language in which he had been addressed.
He, too, smiled; and in their manner toward each other it was plain the excellent understanding
they were on.

"Sit, my white brother, we have many things for talk. Even we, like those others, must sit
if we would pow-wow well. It is good. Sit." Little Black Fox laughed shortly, conceiving himself
superior in thought to the older generation of wise men. He was possessed of all the vanity
of his years.

They both returned to the ground, and the chief kicked together the embers of the council-fire.

"Tell me, brother, of Wanaha," this still unproved warrior went on, in an even, indifferent
voice; "she who was the light of our father's eyes; she who has the wisdom of the rattlesnake,
and the gentle heart of the summer moon."

"She is well." Nevil was not expansive. He knew the man had other things to talk of, and he
wanted him to talk.

"Ah. And all the friends of my white brother?"

The face smiled, but the eyes were keenly alight.

"They are well. And Rosebud----"

"Ah."

"She grows fairer every day."

There was a truly Indian pause. The fire sputtered and cast shadows upon the dark, bare walls.
The two men gazed thoughtfully into the little flame which vauntingly struggled to rear itself
in the dense atmosphere. At last the Indian spoke.

"That man who killed my father is a great brave."

"Yes," nodded Nevil, with a reflective smile in his pale eyes. "And Rosebud is a ripe woman.
Beautiful as the flower which is her name."

"Hah!" Then the Indian said slowly with an assumed indifference, "She will be his squaw. This
white brave."

"That is how they say." It might have puzzled Nevil to apply names to those represented by
"they." "He is a great brave, truly. He fought for her. He killed your father. That is how
these things go. She is for him surely."

A frown had settled on the fierce young chief's face.

"My father was old," he said. 

3. Th in the gastro-slack with increased secretion of gastric mucus and intestinal venous fullness
and obstruction in the circulation of the portal vein.

4. Th in the gastro-enteritis and thrush in children after borax and almost the same Indications:
belly loose, yellow stools, foam and as cut into small pieces rumbling,
low fever, pulse small, pale and sad.

5. ª In the last period of some mucous and catarrhal fever, coryza
and bronchitis in simple, polisárcicas pale in people very willing
to suffer for their long term Organizational, and characterized by
mucus, mouth, and the feeling of corrosion.

6. ª sterility in the catamenial flow in excess of weak women.

7.

Epileptiform seizures ª lifeless people, especially in adulthood; in muscle cramps and colic,
as long as people are not fussy; hernias in children testura soft: in these cases is preferable
to sulfuric acid the lycopodium, sulfur and even to the nux vomica.

Sulfuric acid is a certainly long forgotten, in spite of its sphere of action is not acid less than
the whip. If this is of great importance as antimercurial, acid sulfuric acid, the sulfur that
enters into their composition, is more effective against herpes, but Secondary herpes or mucous,
as evidenced by their physiological effects that make apropos to successfully treat thrush, canker
with minor abrasions side in irritation chronic itching of the mucous
membranes and the cracks of the lips.

Recently, no longer useful in treating certain skin conditions with
itching usually stains red, itching, livid and blue plates, abrasions
covered with scabs spontaneous yellow and chilblains, dry rashes on
the hands and between fingers of the same.

= Dose .=-- The dose and mode of administration are the same as for hydrochloric acid.

Thuja occidentalis (Western YOURS).

§ I. - History.

Yours or the Canadian West is a family tree of the coniferous Juss monoecy .-- From monadelfia,
Linn .-- Although Boerhaave and probably would ignore some British doctors and Americans have
dealt with the Canadian thuya If Hahnemann had not proposed listing
all known facts about the use of this substance, particularly in dropsy
and sorrows indeterminate members.

A therapy should only Hahnemann this precious acquisition: its work on thuya part of the history of
psychosis or of condylomata, special affection that this man has tirelessly to put the first
regular observation and specific treatment to which this drug enters as one of its first officers.

But
first of all we will say something about the psychosis.

The definition has been given of this word [26] applies to the mentagra, but the word fic [27]
is the definition that gives Celsus psychosis, which is said escrescencias fleshy, commonly located
on the edge of mucous membranes and skin, which sometimes degenerate into ulcers.

Psychosis occurs so often in consequence of syphilis, which has led to confuse these two viruses.
Hahnemann wants to distinguish them, but has not given the characters differential. In memory of
Dr. Petroz on psychosis, is as follows: "All kind of tumor that forms
beneath the epidermis, the thickness of the dermis, the tissue Papillary
and the gray matter of Malpighian should be regarded as a product
of psychosis, when not recognized because of smallpox or the syphilitic
virus, when it exists, the formation the escrescencia is due to the
complication of syphilis with psychosis.

The productions are elevations sicósicas epidermis or epithelium of
the hypertrophied papillae and situated on a point hardened by a chronic
inflammation that usually occurs in consequence of a stroke, a compression,
a scratch.

The forms vary according to testura the part where they are located, and probably also, according
to that is purely sicósica escrescencia, or mixed with the syphilitic virus, the herpes ..... In the
skin presents rather the appearance of warts, on mucous membranes, sexual parts, margin the
anus, on the edge of the eye and lips, it has a meatier, more tender,
confused through the same thing with grain cancer.

Ficiformes or pedunculated warts, warts, vegetations rattle calls and cauliflower, are manifestations
of psychosis.

Is divided, then, this condition in acute, chronic and syphilis: the latter variety is not hallmark,
unless it is not accepted as such its appearance with the primitive phenomena of syphilis: treatment
results prove their nature.

Acute psychosis is particularly hard grain usually conical, red-faced
which sometimes degenerates into gray background corroding ulcer,
hard edges and high, they feel stitches in the work of the degeneration,
the grain becomes very sore and is formed ulcer: in these cases is
often fever.

Escrescencia sometimes warty, ficiforme, smooth and indolent, or splits open with or without pain,
and is divided into several lobes.

Chronic psychosis is the vegetation that we have listed, and preference
is presented towards forty.

Boeninghausen can admit, as a sign of hereditary psychosis and the indication of the thuja, two
symptoms that then listed among its physiological effects, and are bulge of flesh at the tip
of the fingers and hands as the feet.

The distinction that we have laid down, according to the opinion of some authors and observation
of the facts, not deactivated when, by way of others, the idea that psychosis is always origin syphilitic.
It is convenient, however, indicate, without attempting to resolve the issue, the horse and dog frequently
suffer from psychosis, everyone knows the affection of mouth in the
dog, which extends in a few days to the entire cavity and fills it
with vegetation.

Thuya is specific, because it makes them disappear quickly without fire or caustics, and without
excision: these operations, in the final result, favor sicósicas escrescencias reproduction of, and
even make them more numerous. Developing, Therefore, the psychosis of horse and dog without syphilis and
no finches phenomena tend to establish that this condition is independent
of syphilis.

Polypoid vegetations are perhaps a form of psychosis and has also been given the same origin to the
area, smallpox, and to certain ulcers that occur in the dermis.

We at least they have a powerful thuya elective action on the dermis, work very favorably in
certain lesions of this part.

Several other drugs have an action similar to the thuja, as to the different vegetations ficiformes,
such as: acid whipping, club moss, lime carbonate, silica, bismuth, savin, even states with respect
to the escrescencias in general and certain polyps, phosphorus, the causticum, bittersweet, antimony,
copper acetate, the Teucrium Marum, mugwort.

In summary, treatment of vegetation and other escrescencias of this genre as well as the terrible
sores that happen to some ficus, beads and condylomas, is one of
the most beautiful achievements of modern therapeutics, conquest that
we owe to Hahnemann, who, although has been attributed exclusively
to the thuya to the specificity that has not, since there need in
many cases resorting to nitric acid, lycopodium and other drugs, it
is a truth thuya that work more effectively so as independent as is
the vegetation of any Another virus that develops on the mucous membranes
in the points next to the skin, and presents pedunculated form, smooth,
reddish and rather soft consistency that lasts.

This does not mean that this drug has no major indications in certain
grains sycotic skin, and also shaped pedunculated warty, but always
smooth, with some redness.

§ II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.

It is well established that the thuya has a special action on the dermis, and even on all parts of
the skin surface without its influence to limit it this system. Offered in all their symptoms, and
a very strong blood excitation and phenomena of irritation of mucous
membranes, and asthenia and nutritional disorders; presents, in short,
neuralgia referred both hiperesténico period as the hiposténico, and
consist of pain varied as essential as symptomatic of rheumatic neuralgia,
migraine, painful tics, nail hysterical.

Febrile conditions typical of Thuya flegmásicas are still poorly defined, and clinical has few
facts to the effect, if excepting some cases of intermittent fever or sender and rather catarrhal
fever in predominantly chills. Thuya also is effective runny nose in the rebel, coryza, certain ophthalmia,
stomatitis, urethritis, when the mucous are swollen or have some
points the same as hypertrophied extraordinary development vascular
system, increased sensitivity, flow serous, mucous and even purulent.

Its indication extends to serosa leucorrhoea and subacute gonorrhea; the coryza with flow watery,
runny nose, scrofulous state, at the same ozena; to the cataract
followed with ophthalmia chemosis, conjunctival mucous tubercles,
sero-mucous flow.

Sulfur is a good auxiliary and it must be stressed these two drugs administered one after
another or alternating.

It is useful also in gonorrhea thuya with escrescencias in condylomata exudates, in cankers with
fleshy growths, in which three directions is insufficient acid nitric, and in which the thuja
can play alone or alternating with it.

This medicine is the cure for excellence of the tubers mucous vegetations
pedunculated or wide base, smooth, with or without irritation of the
adjacent mucosa, in the year, or elsewhere.

Lycopodium is its analogue in these cases. We know that whipped acid corresponds better to multiple
vegetations, granular, exuding and bleeding, but also We expresses as the excision is not a
wise practice.

Canker repeated or multiple pale background, with irregular borders
and placed sensitive on irritated mucous correspond to the thuja.

In that heal sores serpiginous on one hand to stretch it out for another, and abrasions in
the foreskin and the vagina serous or purulent exudation, you must toggle the thuya nitric acid, if the
preparations have no indication as mercury, or if aggravate the condition.

The special action on the skin thuya inclined to hire you in the smallpox successful and some
studies say, based on the facts that the drug is important, if no specific and even condoms. It
has been given, as mercury, the property to prevent scars indelible from the pustules of smallpox,
managing it towards the end of the period of suppuration.

Sometimes occur frequently use the thuya in certain skin conditions, the syphilids particularly
preferably in the form pustular acne, mentagra certain chilblains, patches of dark red and
the redness of the copperas in the nose, lips and chin.

This redness is different from other similar conditions, by sensation of heat and some stitches,
mainly afternoon and evening, by arrangement to the hot red swelling of the fingers and toes,
the pavilion of the ear, the nostrils, the ease to bulge, veins and general sensitivity skin.

This
provision of the veins, the sweat on his genitals, hands and feet; the former existence of
nodules on the face, red patches, beads warty and escrescencias are circumstances that may characterize
the inherent neuralgia thuja, is also observed blood effervescence, arterial pulsations, click on the
joints, strong preference to be affected, the left side, worsening
at night with heat and motion, and that the phenomena of the circulation
are exacerbated, however, with rest.

Some claim that many thuya neuralgia that can heal, are sycotic origin, and some will have gonorrhoeal
rheumatism, syphilitic ... which is still problematic practice and clarify some day, but this
is what you want, thuya is not the only drug targeting to the cause rather than the symptom, but
is a practical truth, In fact curing certain neuralgia, a manifestation of sicósica diathesis,
and the appearance of escrescencias is frequently preceded by rheumatic neuralgias, and are manifested
many times after excision of those, or the spontaneous presentation
of the vegetations sicósicas.

Migraine, which is a pain as hysterical nail, or at least has an limited
extent towards the sutures, with shocks and blows fresh and pain,
relieved tilting the head back, is in relation to the effects of thuja.

Definitely

worth it to be used in neuralgia more hysterical part of the reputed to essential and in some cases of
nymphomania, in consequence of masturbation, with trembling of the limbs, tremors, sweating,
and frequent hot flashes, congestive movements in the head and chest. There are dizziness and
feeling like a drunken, dimming of vision, discomfort in the head in the morning, lancinating
in temples, or laceration discomfort and endolorimiento in occiput, lighting of the face at a time
given, especially in the morning on waking; Chest, oppression, agitation, and feeling bloated, violent
palpitation and sensitivity heartache.

Neuralgia own thuya are generally tight and lancinating, as shock or confined to limited points
are rarely fixed, take the muscles or joints, that are popping with movement extent. More commonly
attack adults, sudan extraordinary that in the joints, superficial veins that have pronounced, lax
skin and very porous, with grains, lumps or growths and certain acquired escrescencias or defects.

If
we were possible exposes some results of our practice, add that thuya is effective in certain laryngitis,
urinary incontinence, chronic runny nose, stiff neck, dull headache,
insomnia and rebellious.

But we prefer to finish this chapter, noting that when used in escrescencias thuya and other
exterior conditions should be used exterior and internally in tincture bit diluted. Sometimes strong
doses are ineffective for inside, in others the opposite is true, it is one of the most difficult
drug to dose; but, again, that is one of the most precious acquisitions of treatment, even if limit
its use to the escrescencias and vegetation, poorly treated today by excision, In view of the
ease of reproduce and multiply, by the influence of germ or diathesis, which can not be ignored
without problems.

= Dose .=-- thuya doses for the interior are the same as reported in the aconite, calcium carbonate
..... It is used usually in solution, in the proportion of part of
the dye for one or two of pure water, playing with her several times
vegetations day with a brush.

Ointment can be applied in some ulcers, consisting of ten parts of substance and a dye, turning
it inside simultaneously.

Valeriana officinalis (valerian).

§ I. - History.

It makes the dyeing with the fresh root. It dipsáceas the family of De la Triandria Juss .-- monoginia,
Linn .-- Also called valerian small.

Founded in numerous ancient and modern documents, we may affirm, thus this drug like many others,
that the work of Hahnemann and his disciples, who have served guide
our own experience and clinical applications, are highly preferable.

The former have recommended valerian exceedingly: the migraine, paralysis, amenorrhea, pleurisy,
intermittent fevers, putrid and nerve typhus. So exaggerated Tissot the effectiveness of this
drug, that all seizure thought to be incurable resist their use, as if they had seizures all
the same character and acknowledged a common cause. Bouteille valerian so confident that he
proposed as a prophylactic of hydrophobia. Professor Trousseau makes it the essential drug
hysteria. Giacomini is more moderate, but unattended, as usual, to the specialists and elective
action medication, believed to valerian a vascular and spinal hipostenizante, neither more nor
less that as asafoetida, arnica, poison ivy and even lead, medicines
confused a general action, but weaker in valerian.

§ II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.

Taken heavy dose of valerian, displays an intense action but fickle. Undoubtedly that anxiety, palpitations,
the lighting of the face, dizziness congested, sweats, the laxitudes
spontaneous and paralytic weakness are disruptive effects, of short
duration, and almost useless for them based on the indications, as
sufficient proof the clinic, and the facts are always more eloquent
than lectures and speeches.

For the facts and physiological symptoms that reveals esperimentacion, valerian has an elective action
on the spinal nerve and ganglion, which are: the tension and nerve mobility, congestion and
hot shooting, partial spasms, tenderness and irritability excesses,
and numbness after; disorder, in short, sensitivity, and disharmony
innervation.

Few drugs will be better suited to valerian to the nervousness of women delicate and exceedingly
sensitive children, affected by the worms, but not for to the injection
of the senses and nervous for mobility, an important element of hysteria,
and therefore on the premises.

Valerian is also contraindicated in hysterical ball, but not when
only sensation of heat rising from the epigastrium or the navel to
the throat, nausea almost always.

These upward heat puffs are a symptom of its action.

Alter the circulation momentarily, and yet fits exactly to certain
conditions subacute rheumatic fever, aches, erratic numerous, and
feeling of brokenness and weakness, as a regulator of the nervous
system.

Under this view also is indicated valerian in nervous and typhoid fever, when the pulse is small
and fast, if there is exaltation of the senses of sight and hearing to touch, break tendons without
constancy, inertia of the muscular system, increased urination puffs of heat that rises to the
head, miliary eruption sometimes quiet delirium consisting of hallucinations,
the patient is believed, for example, on the edge of the bed to make
room to another.

Valerian also be preferred to any other, in fevers of children verminous
and fever prevalence in all nervous, especially when there is pallor,
anxiety, palpitations of heart, muscle tremors.

Add to these some useful indications for the use of valerian in the state of nervousness and impressions
of the hypochondria people who sleep badly, always in pain, from flatuosidades in concept, and certain
ideas that the distressed; often feel extraordinary hunger, nausea and even vomiting, loose
stools; the urine usually are abundant and clear. Although valerian is not able to cure these
conditions completely nervous, as to its causes diathetic at least, however, very useful and
might lead to more fundamental choice of drugs, by induces changes in the general. If, finally,
the importance of valerian in the treatment of hysteria is inferior to that of hellebore in
the same circumstances, the reader can judge the therapeutic wealth offered by the medical field,
after have seen in this work a number of eminently antihysteric drugs.

= Dose .=-- doses of valerian are the same as those already identified
in other medicines, administered in various mitigations or tincture.

ALBUM Veratrum (Hellebore WHITE).

§ I. - History.

This plant belongs to the family of colchicáceas, Juss monoecy .-- In polygamy, Linn .-- The
fresh root is the part used, and treated according to art. Almost completely abandoned this
medicine for many centuries, has required that Hahnemann, whom he owes so much therapeutic
you out of oblivion to early today.

His dissertation on the medical history and hellebore and hellebore of the ancients [28], is a monument
of erudition. Hellebore was the remedy of all serious and chronic ailments, but no fever. Patients
flocked in large numbers, even from the most remote countries, to Anticyra, city of Greece,
where they had established directed by physicians who submitted the patients to hellebore,
in the extreme, violent medication.

Also it was thus the mental alienation, melancholia, neuralgia, rheumatism, gout, epilepsy,
dizziness and paralysis, elephantiasis, a condition herpetic calculations, scrofula, hypochondriasis, hidden
cancer. Hippocrates was cholera of his time, certainly indian with hellebore. This heroic medicine,
finally, fell to while Greece absorbent succumb to the greatness
of Rome, and in the Middle Ages not to speak of it again. Later they
made some mention undecided. Are confounded, so Thus, the various
species of hellebore, until Hahnemann, not content to make known the
great importance that the ancients gave to this drug, was given to
many experiments, which, repeated by some doctors, the facts have
confirmed the high, from cholera Asia, to the neuralgia and convulsive
coughs. An' he was savage. Gee, but he was real
savage! Guess he was one o' them fellers always ready to scare squaws an' papooses an' things.
Ther's lots o' that sort around."

Wanaha, quite unobserved by Seth, had come round the corner of the building, and stood watching
the earnest face of the man who was so deliberately propounding his somewhat garbled version
of Little Red Riding Hood. While she listened to his words she smiled pensively.

"Yes, they git themselves up fancy an' come sneakin' around, an' they're jest that fierce there
ain't no chance for you. Say, them things would eat you right up, same as you've eaten that
taffy. Wal, this young squaw was goin' off on her broncho when this timber wolf comes up smilin',
an' he says, 'Good-day.' An' he shakes hands with her same as grown folks do. All them timber
wolves are like that, 'cause they think you won't see they're going to eat you then. You see
he was hungry. He'd been out on the war-path--which is real bad--an' he'd been fightin', and
the folks had beaten him off, and he couldn't get food, 'cause he'd left the Reservation where
there's always plenty to eat an' drink, and there was none anywhere else.

"Wal, he sizes up that squaw, and sees her blanket's good an' thick, and her moccasins is made
of moose hide, and her beads is pretty, and he thinks she'll make a good meal, but he thinks,
thinks he, he'll eat the squaw's sick gran'ma first. I think that Mr. Cura is already in his room.

The priest had retired to her room. Had to leave early in the morning and did not want disclosed.

I
went into the corridor. Splendid night, a wintry night so serene, clean and bountiful clouds
in stars, that seemed like part of me that after the young he confessed
his love.

Sitting in an old chair that belonged to my grandfather, I thought Angelina. Would not see more in
the yard or in the corridors, and take care of the birds and plants. Galanas, leafy, when spring
comes, our beloved flowers, which we plant, of them and I expect Linilla wonderful loving
fidelity tests, would look not for my love its fragrant blossoms, none of which adorn the black
hair of girl. Goodbye joy! It was with her, perhaps never to return! We would be tearful depressed,
moody, missing the poor orphan, whose beautiful and modest young
had been for our poor house, always sad and gloomy, like a sunbeam.

Nocturnal insects whistled as hidden from the foliage, the datura, rocked by the wind, swung heavily
satin bells, the "smell of night" had no flavor, and silent running
water down the drain the basin.

Suddenly the wind kicked up, I shuddered cold, and closed my eyes.

I do not know how long I was so numb, overwhelmed with grief.

My heart ached I felt ...-- I touched on the shoulder, and told me
quietly, very quietly:

- Rodolfo!

... Rodolfo!

Was Linilla.

- You all have been gathered, - muttered - and I've come to say goodbye,
I do not want to see you tomorrow.

- Do not you want me?

- No, I
would be impossible to get out of here ... I could not hold back my
tears!

Pretend you're asleep, you're sick, you do not want to get up, what is best, but do not go!

- Sit down here beside me in this chair ....

- No, Rorra. I go, I do not know when I will return. Will you see me? Yes .. Is not it? I write
.... I take your picture, and I'll look at all hours, and read your letters until I know them
by heart. Be sure to write me, I pray, and love me, love me like I love you! Think I've been
very unhappy, I'm alone, almost alone in the world, because the holy old man, who has been
to me a real father will live long, the day I miss .... Before I knew it was my only love, and I said
to myself: while I live my father alive, then ... Why? Now I think that, and I live, I live
for you, to love, to be loved! I told you 'd forget, I forget .... No, Rodolfo, do not forget
me! I forget ... because you, you can not forget! Your love is the only happiness of my life and I can
not lose! ... Even that for this poor orphan! No, the sky will not let me forget .... Is not
it is not possible?

Think of me talk about me all the time, with your aunts, with Lady Jane, with anyone! ... I
want to be forever in your heart, I want to be at all times in your mind; everywhere you go.
Think of me when you're working, when you read, when you pray ....
Up when you sleep!

... Dream with me, dream with your Linilla! ...

Could not more. The tears choked her. He lay in my arms, and rested his head on mine. Sob ....
He tried to speak but could not. She took my hand, pressed it tightly, and kissed me effusion
in children.

After long silence made an effort, and tired, as if pressing on the chest, I said, handing an
object from his pocket apron:

- Take: a medal, I've been to the neck as a child, I put my mother and me I have taken to give
it .... Now, tell me goodbye, and sorry if my baby is cause for bitterness for you! ...

I was going to stop it. I pulled gently, and went step by step.

XXXVI

Then turned to my favorite walks every morning and every evening, before and after going to
the office of the lawyer.

Again walked the banks of the Stony, and got one hundred sometimes
Brush Hill.

In all recorded river poplars Linilla initials, or a single letter, an "L", to remind me every step
of the name of my beloved. But my favorite place was the highest rock of the hill. From there
I discovered the summits elevations of the Sierra. Behind one of them was the village of San
Sebastian where he dwelt the poor girl. I long hours I spent on that site, along with curious eyes
the clouds or mists that were driven thither by the wind, and I loved to watch how they died
out gradually, on the peaks of those mountains, the last light of the dying day. At night
I threw me to wander the streets of the city past or about to sit on San Antonio cemetery at
the foot of a cypress tree near the place where Angelina said, when I asked if I would always
love:

- How today and tomorrow, even after death!

From there it dominates the southern valley, bordered by the mountains of the Sierra, which
unfolded on the winter sky its unique constellations: Orion, the
Can, and the ship whose masts flashed the magnificent Canopus.

But the dark nights were more beautiful to me. My thoughts flying through the shadows in search of the
humble parish house, I imagined I was there, in the modest living room near the priest, and Angelina
side. I attended the game of chess, and reading session. The old man in his chair, Angelina
to one side, near the table, in the lamplight with a book hands.

If even I could hear the voice of Argentina, flirtatious, suggestive, it sounded in my ears
like the sound of a wind harp.

Some nights when the storm with lurid glare lit the tops of the mountains,
I was pleased I admire the fires of the storm, the lightning that
followed one another without ceasing with the din of a thousand thunders,
repeated by the echoes, the greatness of that increased sky show,
as if the entire race to cross the sky one hundred trains of war,
outbreak of thousands and thousands of guns.

The storm moved away, the sky was clearing, the moon looked out, and
clouds, by frightening black and white became celajes fringed feathers,
lace, fringe of silvery; in sailing skiffs, in nacelles nacre, in
beautiful swan neck erect and wings upright, who rowed in a gulf of
clear water dotted with stars.

Who was there! Who bogara to these valleys as they lost in the folds of the mountain! Who could
follow in its mysterious twists! At that hour of sleep birds, the winds were silent, and would
be heard only on the slopes, in ravines, gorges, the breath of the
forests, the awesome breath of the forest.

One morning I came to the house Dr. Sarmiento, was very fast, very
fast, called the door and told Juana:

- Rodolfo?

Not at home? For ea! I hope to tell you tonight ... I need you ... Huh?

I did not expect. The physician was in his office, leafing through tomes do not know what.

- Oh, boy, you arrive on time.

Will dine with me. I have good news for you .... Come Sit, chat. How are there? Going on, eh? Go
wrong, son Dona Carmen is wrong, very wrong, the way that kid is going to cause an upset.
You know: joy, entertainment ....

- Joy?

- Yes, joy! ...

- In my house can not have that ....

- Well, look what you do.

Tell your Aunt Pepa to try to distract her sister.

The other day I, and I found them in tears, crying her eyes out.

What? - Asked .-- 'Nothing: Angelina went !...»

But you'll see, boy, as all that happens!

What is now, when arrive ... You'll see .... Good time to give you!

-
Why, doctor?

- I came Fernández ... I talked to him, and he said
that the April 15 waiting at the hacienda.

Tomorrow will come forth with all the family .... Is a done deal,
there will have a placement very regular .... Castro warns .... No
more arguments!

No more gossip or lawsuits!

I said to the gentleman who does not understand jack of business,
but you will learn.

Good person! Very good person! Try to see him tomorrow, before noon,
you will give this card ... y. ..

Go! Now, the dining room! ...

When I got home my heart skipped a beat. I went in, and aunt came to meet me Pepilla:

- Rorra! Rorra! Look ...-- and taught me a letter.

- What is that?

     - Look ... A letter!

- Angelina?

- Angelina!

... Let's see what you said ....

- Yes, aunt, but after I read it ....

- How you want, Rorra! - Replied with a smile.

I ran to my room, lit the lamp, and, overcome by emotion very profound, I read the letter.

My aunt attempted in vain to hide his impatience.

- What? ...

- Now, auntie, quiet, quiet! I will read it, but Aunt Carmen's hear too ....

Linilla had foreseen the case and wrote two letters: one to read before I could of my aunts, the
one for me .... Just for me!

With what joy the good old received the letter from the young! When I finished reading were crying.

I
wanted to be alone, and ran to my room .... Tell them that I had jobs in the finance Santa Clara?
Who thought of that!

Angelina's letter read:

XXXVII

"Rorra:

Because I imagine you'll be very angry with me because I wrote, then, of course, as you wanted. But
look: it was not my fault: We arrived very late and I was tired, really tired, that all weighting
is short. These roads are very pretty, prettiest, y. .. Very heavy!
Hard! What passes!

But ... What scenery! You, you were so fond of all these things, you would be delighted. Everywhere
dense forests .... It seems that he has not touched the hand of man. Everywhere crops, farms
and cabins. And flowers, or say! I've seen some in tree trunks, and other, vines, which are to praise
God. And that we even in winter. What will be in April and May?

The next day I started to fix the house. It was awful! Francisca is useless. Poor is old and sick.
No right out of the kitchen, it does nothing. You know I'm not lazy; I say work, y. .. To work!
The house has been pretty, pretty, because the order and toilet embellish everything. When
we all were sad and gloomy. What is now glad to walk around these parts. Only I have none at
all, because sadness is killing me .... Each time I just want to mourn. I escaped, I go to
the garden, or the church, and there, alone, no one sees me, I cry and cry for you. Sometimes I
think I'm alone in the world, nobody can I want, that you no longer think of me, your poor ....
Linilla But I have moments of joy, very sweet, when I think I want a long, long, and they're silent,
head down, sad and sorry for my separation. And I say, "Better! Best! Distressing! That suffer;
That is a sign that I like and think of me! "Forgive me. Love is selfish. We the happiness of
the beloved, and yet, we are pleased that as we suffer and cry. Are not you sad, and until
you want to mourn, because I'm not there at your side and do not see me or hear my voice? I
do see you, see you at all times, not portrait. The environment eyes, and then you appear before
me, just the same as you .... And I talk, and talk to me and you very affectionate with me,
very cute!

And look at me, and I look .... Then I'm happy, very happy, and I feel the happiest of women.
But when I get sad and wanting to mourn, I close my eyes then y. .. Boo! I've been thinking, when
this happens to me, that in those moments I want, do not think of me I've forgotten I'm a corpse
in your memory.

And this distresses me, saddens me, fills me with bitterness. Is it true that sometimes you forget
Your Linilla? So you Linilla not forget you, or you away for a moment from his memory. Is it
true In some moments you live for ... another? Is not that right? Is not that only live for
me?

Yesterday in the afternoon we went for a walk along the banks of the people, they are all slopes.
Dad sat on a rock and began to pray the office, and I, meanwhile,
threw me for those intricacies, and climbed and climbed up to a peak
from which to see some of the valleys Pluviosilla and Villaverde.

     I reached the top, and I fatigadísima.

It is true that since there are mastered Pluviosilla fields, but
alas! just a little, very little, the hills of Villaverde; just the
tip of the brush.

I would have given much to see, albeit from afar, the rock on which
you sit down to watch the sunset.

The sky was very clean and clear, no clouds in the region, and I said, who was bird to fly there,
and fly and fly in search of Rorra, my Rorra! Sitting there among the foliage, I thinking
of you, but eager to mourn .... It was late, I went down and down, Many cut flowers, and since I can
not mandártelas, I chose a fern that is in this letter.

Bring a little something ... What do you guess? You remember that night when we said goodbye,
you asked me the flowers I had in mind? Do you remember what you said? ... I am ashamed to write
it; but you understand me! ... Write me, Rorra. Write me, darling, look at that if I put four
letters, although only four letters, I'm going to die of grief.

Do not be lazy, Rorra. You are very lazy, and although I love very much, as I to you, you
can not write time, and the waiter will come and bring me no letter from you, and I'll have to wait
eight days, eight days, which will be for me eight centuries! Write me, look I'm ready to
go to the ranch of the Cedars to find the waiter to give me the letters and orders. Imagine
what penalty will I have if you do not write me!

It's too late: just hit the clock in the room of twelve o'clock, and I can not follow writing. Since
I wrote the other letter, so you do not see the commitment to read
it before your aunts, and so will be in front.

Two little letters: one for you and for all, one for ... "My Rodolfo."

Take good care of your aunts, particularly Dona Carmelita. Think of the poor is very sick, very nervous,
and need love and affection. Since I write four lines. Tell Mrs. Pepilla if you have some
great work at hand, send me accoutrements, that I will help here;
I have much pleasure in helping, that I have spare time and I can
use it at that.

Tell me what you do and how you spend your time when you leave the desk, tell me if you think me,
if you remember your Linilla who loves you much, much, much, and only lives to love. Goodbye!

Angelina.

PS
- Watch out not to write! Here he might not go back to thinking about you. "

XXXVIII

Angelina's letter to my soul was saddened as the ray of sun that dissipates in valleys mists
and banks left by the storm. I was happy, happy, happy and proud to be loved. Something like
a breath of spring winds flooded my soul and my unconscious came
to revive heart.

I did not pick me up without writing prior to Linilla. Lay all around me. Through the window wide
open, came the scents of the garden, the water flowed silently down the drain pylon, and from
time to time, the station agent florida, heralded a goldfinch his loving serenade.

At midnight I dropped the pen, and read and reread my letter, six sheets written by the four veneers.
Discouragement prey inexplicable got the specifications in the envelope. No, did not say those
page what I felt my heart. In vain I insisted to transmit to the paper prints mine that produced
the letter, in vain I struggled to express the emotion of my soul deeply moved, the sublime emotion
Lord of my spirit knotted my tongue, licked my paralyzed eyes and my mind.

Discouraged, dog-tired, I lay in bed. The incomparable joy of a moment happened to me a pitiful
state, and tried to sleep.

Someone has said that sleep is an advance that makes us death. Sweet and refreshing after work,
consoling and beneficial when the pain in your chest jacking their jaws milano; rich in images
and fantasies when he is with us the hope, often aloof, disdainful cruel, if happiness smiles
when we ask you to complete our happiness, a bouquet his crown of poppies.

The dream long in coming. As I became to think that soon I would have to be separated of the
house to go among strangers and strange win a piece of bread.

What would you do without me the poor elderly? What would you do if I left? Have more money,
it is true, but left alone, and abandoned, with no friends to an
old servant and worked ailing; a doctor as poor as them, and a schoolmaster
who was dying of sadness y. .. Hungry!

Angelina was necessary to
go find a maid to come to the aid of my aunt and Mrs. Pepa Juana.
But, how to pay your services? My salary is not always paid on time,
because of the bad memory of Castro Perez and my shyness to claims,
which won my aunt with flowers and their kids, and Andrew gave us
was all we had. We resolved to remove a dish on the table, and that
that ours was not, of course, table bankers or princes.

I was going
to make a good living, as I did not know, but anyway, it would not
be as scant as I paid the legal expert. I would at the ranch house
and food, the weather improved, was the case and take advantage of
good luck, but the thought of leaving my aunts, even if to meet their
needs more broadly, tormented me, filled me with anguish, and I kept
thinking that terrify the promised jobs would require me dealing with
people who do not deem me who may not know me, and which would I have
to suffer scorn and abuse. When talking about the supposed happiness
of the rich, and commends the abundance of living, luxury spending,
amenities enjoyed and being around them, no one is right to point
out the only thing the darlings of fortune da real superiority over
those who live daily work, arduous and poorly paid. No, not an enviable
superiority in social respects, and in public estimation, that although
apparent and mind is powerful element of happiness, because it makes
everyone saved consideration and respect, or is in the quiet of a
life without desires, - that also has the rich, and great and terrible
- but in the noble integrity which gives them reject money for the
outrages, not to ask anyone for favors or leniency with shortage decorum
itself. Poverty reduction of regular characters, depresses the mind,
debases the soul, the levels with the most abject, and only very lifted
spirits, spirits of sublime temple, the test unscathed. When we usually
encounter petty beings with souls degraded, for which self-respect
is vain word, if not reach the ears touches the heart, or dyed red
cheeks, saying: "Soul of a slave!" And without wanting to think of
a life of misery that debased the character and spirit trap for fools.
Say what you will, that nobility is the only happiness of the rich.
For her, only for her, admiring the world. Everything else that they
envy the crowd is like the crown of tinsel that surrounds the front
of the actor. Noble dignity, dignity enviable places except higher
heart clothes! His look was one of deep affection. Surely Nature had made a mistake
in not making them mother and son. Still, she had done the next best thing in invoking Fate's
aid in bringing them together. Mrs. Sampson looked no older than the day on which Rosebud had
been brought to the house. As Seth had once told her, she would never grow old. She would just
go on as she was, and, when the time came, she would pass away peacefully and quietly, not
a day older than she had been when he first knew her.

But Seth, understanding so much as he did of the life on that prairie farm, and the overshadowing
threat which was always with them, had yet lost sight of the significance of the extreme grayness
of this woman's hair. Still her bright energy and uncomplaining nature might well have lulled
all fears, and diverted attention from the one feature which betrayed her ceaseless anxiety.

"I kind o' tho't sech work was for young fingers, Ma," Seth observed, indicating the stockings.

"Ah, Seth, boy, I hated to darn when I was young an' flighty."

The man smiled. His accusations had been made to ears that would not hear. He knew this woman's
generous heart.

"I reckon Rosebud'll take to it later on," he said quietly.

"When she's married."

"Ye-es."

Seth watched the needle pass through and through the wool on its rippling way. And his thoughts
were of a speculative nature.

"She's a grown woman now," said Mrs. Sampson, after a while.

"That's so."

"An' she'll be thinkin' of 'beaus,' or I'm no prophet."

"Time enough, Ma."

"Time? I guess she's goin' on eighteen. Maybe you don't know a deal o' gals, boy."

The bright face looked up. One swift glance at her companion and she was bending over her work
again.

"I had 'beaus' enough, I reckon, when I was eighteen. Makes me laff when I think o' Rube. He's
always been like what he is now. Jest quiet an' slow. I came nigh marryin' a feller who's got
a swell horse ranch way up in Canada, through Rube bein' slow. Guess Rube was the man for me,
though, all through. But, you see, I couldn't ask him to marry me. Mussy on us, he was slow!"

"Did you have to help him out, Ma?"

"Help him? Did you ever know a gal who didn't help her 'beau' out? Boy, when a gal gets fixed
on a man he's got a job if he's goin' to get clear. Unless he's like my Rube--ter'ble slow."

"That's how you're sizin' me now," said Seth, with a short laugh.

Ma Sampson worked on assiduously.

"Maybe you're slow in some things, Seth," she ventured, after a moment's thought.

"See here, Ma, I've always reckoned we'd get yarnin' like this some day. It 'ud please you
an' Rube for me to marry Rosebud. Wal, you an' me's mostly given to talkin' plain. An' I tell
you right here that Rosebud ain't for the likes o' me. Don't you think I'm makin' out myself
a poor sort o' cuss. 'Tain't that. You know, an' I know, Rosebud belongs to mighty good folk.
Wal, before ther's any thought of me an' Rosebud, we're goin' to locate those friends. It's
only honest, Ma, and as such I know you'll understand. Guess we don't need to say any more."

Mrs. Sampson had ceased working, and sat peering at her boy through her large spectacles. Seth's
look was very determined, and she understood him well.

She shook her head.

"Guess you're reckoning out your side." She laughed slyly and went on darning. "Maybe Rosebud
won't thank you a heap when you find those friends. They haven't made much fuss to find her."

"No, Ma. An' that's just it."

"How?" The darning suddenly dropped into Mrs. Sampson's lap.

"Maybe they were killed by the Injuns."

"You're guessin'."

"Maybe I am. But----"

"What do you know, boy?" The old woman was all agog with excitement.

"Not a great deal, Ma," Seth said, with one of his shadowy smiles. "But what I do makes me
want to write a letter. And a long one. An' that sort of thing ain't easy with me. You see,
I'm 'ter'ble slow.'"

Seth's manner was very gentle, but very decided, and Ma Sampson did not need much explanation.
She quietly stood up and gathered her belongings together.

"You get right to it, boy. What you do is right for me. I'll say no more. As my Rube says,
ther' ain't nothin' like livin' honest. An' so I says. But if that letter's goin' to lose you
Rosebud, I'd take it friendly of Providence if it would kind o' interfere some. I'll go an'
sit with Rube, an' you can write your letter."

At last Seth turned to his letter in earnest. He first pulled out a piece of newspaper from
his pocket and unfolded it. Then he laid it on the table, and carefully read the long paragraph
marked by four blue crosses. He wanted to make no mistake. As he had said himself, letter-writing
wasn't easy to him. He read thoughtfully and slowly.

  "THE ESTATE OF THE LOST COLONEL RAYNOR

  "Once more we are reminded of the mysterious disappearance of that
  distinguished cavalry officer, Colonel Landor Raynor. My mother God
rest in heaven, hugged me and she started to mourn: "Linilla, - I said - God give bread, we
will ask him. " And I got on his knees, and I was praying with folded hands on his chest, like
an angel of those who saw the other day in the chapel of San Antonio.

My father was a soldier, he was always in war, or conspiracies, and
therefore his enemies, those of the opposite party of death haunted
him.

I did not see more than once. They had won their own and came to us. He brought a lot of money
and we bought clothes and furniture, and me sweets and toys, and a Rorro very cute, blond and
blue eyes, saying, "Papa and Mama." I have not forgotten my father was a tall, of beautiful
eyes, very twisted his mustache.

Hugged me warmly, kissed me, and Lina exclaimed :--«¡ lifting me! Linilla! Who is my charm? Who
is my medal? Who I want a long, long ... Mu ... cho! "

But one day he went to war .... Always the war and revolutions! It was early morning, and he went
with officers and soldiers.

We went to say goodbye. I picked her up, kissed me eyes, hugged my mother, then mounted his
horse, and said, 'Hasta la vista !...» and left. We did not see him. That war lasted three years.
He was not to know what state away, and we we wait your turn.

One day my mother received a letter. My father called us. Was obliged to obey, and then As we sell,
furniture, clothes, everything in the house, we started our journey soloists, in a carriage that
gave many bumps and it was very noise running down the pavements. We walked day and night, and
we only stopped at the inn to sleep and rest a few hours. Before dawn, the carriage again, again
empty roads, afraid of thieves. We used to go through some towns. The car stopped, got off to
go to the restaurant, ate, and from walking. One day my mom complained that it hurt head. He
had fever and was obliged to stay in a village in an inn. I slept with her, I remember burning
with fever, his body burned like an ember. I woke up at half night, and I said: Mom! Mom! And
did not answer, remained dead. Once, seeing did not respond, I began to mourn .... Then my
mom came to, and tucked me saying things I did not understand, very
strange things.

Dad told me that my mother had typhus.

The landlady called the Father, and when he arrived the patient had lost consciousness. Came
town doctor and stated that it was too late, that the agony was close!

-
No live one hour .-- ...-- said Father, Put the oils!

- This creature
should not be here ...-- replied the priest, placing the stole - that
take my home!

I did not want to part with there. I resisted, I cried, I wept ... but in vain! I was a little
one seven years, and yet, I realized what was happening: he would never see my mother. Crying
I and my tears were tears of great pain. My mother was dying, was not to see me anymore. They
took me to the rectory. There is nothing I amused or comforted me, I spent the day without eating,
sullen, unwilling to the attention of the father and the gift of an old woman, housekeeper of
this modest home. I snuggled on the couch, where I gave up the dream, and then took me to bed.
At midnight I woke up, crying, calling my mom. The old woman came to see me, me clothed and
was stroking until I fell asleep. In the morning, when I opened my eyes my mother asked. I
said I was in heaven. The old woman washed me, clothed me, and gave me breakfast. To distract
me to the room and gave me toys, dolls birth, pastors, goats, sheep,
a cardboard house, a mill with its wheel that spinning move by blasting.

When the priest returned from the church sat down beside me and asked me many questions, "How your
name? How's your mom? Do you Dad? "I do not know what I said .... The priest says that my answers
got enough to know who we were, who my father. Found in the trunk of letters and papers, documents
which gave news about the residence of my father. He wrote immediately, giving the fatal news,
but the letter did not come into his hands. Wrote again and received no response. The author of
my life had died too. Perished in a skirmish. His body was dragged and paraded as a trophy
of glory, the sound of music victorious, by a drunken soldiers celebrating an unexpected victory. The
priest is then went to my relatives, who refused to pick ... "We
do not want children", - he replied - "do not want orphans are ungrateful,
they eventually pay."

I am told that when the holy old man received a letter from my relatives, said: 'Hearts stone!
God forgive? "He brought this child into my home? Well mine is. " Then I called, and taking
my head between her hands, she said sweetly, "Doll: from now on I
am your father I am your father!

"" Dad called him since then and since then he calls me "doll." Some Sometimes I say "Linilla" as
my parents told me.

Angelina was over the bouquet, a bouquet of violets, and I approached
him to aspire I am the soft scent of flowers.

- Linilla?

Linilla "you say?

Linilla Well I call you me! Follow the story ....

- Do I? History of pain!

- Go on.

- So that way, I went to the house of the father, father has been
for me, and very tender and loving.

Otherwise you know, what you have told your aunt ....

- And that is the sad story of your life?

What say, Linilla mine - I said - all I grieve and grieve? Why question my love, that you have
put in doubt when I breaks the heart, saying you were not worthy
of me?

"Unworthy of my love, my Linilla?

Why? Why have you been unhappy because you are an orphan? On the contrary, my dear, what more
reason to be loved?

Angelina remained downcast as racked with a sad foreboding, as if
afraid say something that embarrassed her.

- Speak!

... Answer me!

...

The orphan was silent, low forehead, opening with the tip of the fingers
within the tight a pale pink.

- Linilla ... Do not be cruel!

Painfully sighed, shook his head to throw back a braid that fell over
shoulder, and whispered softly, softly, perhaps anxious not to be
heard:

- I have not said everything ... and I must say.

Listen, for pity's sake!

I do not want to say ... but My heart cries, Speak! Speak!

- Well, tell me!

- Yes, Rodolfo: I am not worthy of you.

You yourself have said many times in front of your aunts, before
me.

- Me, Angelina?

- Yes.

- Me?

- Yes, y. ..

How you made me mourn!

- Me, Angelina?

- Many times. Did you come! To what you knew! Rodolfo: Why do I love? Why you I love? What cost me tear
your love! Look, if you do not deserve to love me, forget, forget; I go from here, crying, yes, crying
... but I'll go to the Sierra, to any part .... You can be happy.

Just start living .... The human heart is fickle, the day will come
when I forget .... Love another and be loved, and be happy!

- Angelina
- I said pleading - what is that?

Listen: this poor heart of mine, had not ever loved: I came to this
house and told me about you; I said you were an orphan, an orphan
like me and you were nice to me, and I said you were good, very good,
and I became interested in you, I read your letters, I saw your picture,
and found that they were like I dreamed you, you came, and I shuddered
to hear your voice, I spoke ... Remember?

... and drowned the voice in my throat and my heart fluttered trembling with love. Then ... What
to say! ... You said: "I love you, and I wanted to be quiet, and I could not, and when you
try to kill your baby with a word disdainful, opened my lips and
said: "I love you too!"

- Yes, I love you, Angelina!

...

- Listen.

I have hurt the heart, has saddened my soul .... But I forgive, I forgive you, because you did not know what
you did .... I'm sure.

- When and how?

- You said once ... and
I've repeated many times ... "I will never marry anyone who is not
worthy me, and not worthy of being the wife of an honest man whose
parents it ... "I'll say once .... The union of mine did not have
the blessing of Heaven.

- Sorry !...-- muttered.

The orphan was silent, his eyes moist and fell off two tears that fell in the violet as two drops
of dew.

- Sorry! - Repeated, shaking the girl in my arms, and drawing his gallant head .-- Forgive Linilla!

And
awed me gently away.

- Do not forgive!

If I love you with all my heart .... You know who I am .... In my
life There is nothing I'm ashamed ... but in mine .... You know everything!

... I made you suffer, right?

Yes, because you're crying .... Forgive me ... It was necessary .. Later I would have told you had
cheated.

I took the girl's hands and took them to my lips. She smiled, withdrew them, saying gracefully:

-
"And the story that came by a little silver left by a little gold."

XXIX

Angelina's revelation left me sad, depressed, embarrassed. Then I realized certain melancholy of
the girl, when I talked about weddings and engagements. I set the mood calm of the girl, take,
as far as possible, the bad impression that my light and my careless words had caused, and got
it. I showed him my little thought not should be a source of disgust, and put all my effort that
I had understood that the that was just the repetition of opinions read in I do not know which
book they heard not know what people. I never thought Angelina wounded to the quick, I could
never imagine that poor she knew the story of his unhappy mother.

I also knew, because of my aunt who always refused to tell me how and how Angelina was the home
of P. Herrera, loving the old, the holy priest that I saw, and rightly, in his adopted daughter,
an angel down from heaven to brighten the dreary hours of rural life. And I had little difficulty
get my beloved forget my sayings inappropriate and cruel. Rulings, judgments and opinions hear
in the world that seem thoughtful and fair, and we slightly, repeat, we make our own, and
it often happens that later we realize that we have repeated nonsense.

Linilla - so I called in front - did not touch the point, and always
showed me friendly and happy.

I did not go out to the street rather than work hours, and returning
the I spent my office hours next to the orphan, more and more in love
with her.

One or twice all season, went to the Christmas raffle, which gathered every night Plaza on the
peaceful inhabitants of Villaverde.

Games or music or me were pleasant; I care not stop the beauty of my countrymen, or the elegance
and grace of Gabriela.

- Do not go to the sweepstakes? - Said my aunt.

- Do not I have fun, I prefer to stay home, reading or chatting with
you.

- You do not look young, the patient replied !...-- Rorra.

-
All young people your age die to go there, - said Aunt Pepa - only
you, as an old pussy, you're within the four walls.

While I was there, about Angelina.

I never tired of looking at it: every word was to me a poem. I was very happy. What greater chance
that separate me from your side!

One of the pharmacists put at my disposal all his books, two or three hundred volumes of poems
and novels.

Then I read a lot, loudly, while my aunt worked and Angelina; then
I made many verses, many daily.

Angelina was celebrated with a heat them and enthusiasm such that the good girl blushed to
hear them.

- Do not say those things, Rorra, - used to tell me - because I do
not think so.

If you paint me beautiful graceful as a Murillo virgin!

Tell prose, here, talking to me, love me long, long, and I have happy,
satisfied and happy.

Angelina was not beautiful like a virgin Murillo, but it was like one of Raphael, as the Madonna of
the chair. I can not see the famous picture without remembering the maid. The identical oval face,
and smile, and eyes, and lips sweetly expressive.

At times, after spending long hours in my room, I went out with paper
in hand, seizing the moment when Angelina was left alone.

- Verses?

"Verses for me, is not it?

And I will take them away, read them quietly, smiling and blushing,
while I placed her back, was following in reading.

- Nice! - Exclaimed
.-- But all these things I enjoy most when I say them without thinking.

I do not know why, but the lines always seem to me silly lies!

Fold the paper, it is kept, and I pointed to a seat:

- Here, near me. Tell me, Rorra: do you love me so much as say, as I love to you?

Began the conversation, and on, and spent the time and did not feel run times, happy, blessed with
the happiness of those who love and are loved.

We gave for gardening.

Prepare the tables and planted roses, carnations, lilies, lilies,
we promised for next spring full of flowers.

Planted around the source favorite flower, the lovely blue flower,
the sweet myosotis, so beloved of lovers.

What care with our plants! What I want to bloom soon! We divide the beds into two parts. Linilla
planted one, I the other.

- Where spring the first flower?

"In my pictures or yours?

- In mine, because I love you more than
you to me!

- No, not in yours because I want as I love ....

- You'll
see.

- We'll see.

The love and joy of being loved graced the young. Never more beautiful. Her pale face took soft
pink ink, her lips before discolored, burned, and his black and bright eyes gleamed, wet and happy.
She always so modest and enemy of galas, became presumidilla. Graciously combed her hair and
adorned with a flower used; usually with half-open rosebud, purple
or white, which made it seem more intense the blackness of that silky
hair, black as raven wings. Every evening, at parting, I told him:

-
Linilla: the flower ....

Angelina flowed from her hair the desired
flower, and I offered it for granted, as offered inciting a child
to finish cutting fruit.

I pretended anger:

- So, Miss?

- So, sir!

-
No, as you know ....

Linilla smiled, kissed the flower and gave it
to me. Inolvidables besos! Sweet kisses collected in the corolla of
a rose!

XXX

We had a very merry Christmas party, and nobody expected
it. Andrew came and told my aunts:

- Ladies, we must have party.
In years past Christmas Eve was for us very sad .... Now there must
be so, no, sir, because I want the little master is happy. Everything
runs in my account. To you I will be playing the most painful, arrange
it, and make the donuts. No donuts there Eve! There you, Angelina,
you are painting for all that! We will table in the room, and you,
Mrs. Carmelita, dine with us. And--I hardly know what."

The black eyes looked straight into the blue ones, and the latter shifted to the table on which
the woman's loving hands had carefully set the necessaries for supper.

"Tell me," she said simply, "you who are clever--maybe I help."

"That's just it, my Wana. I believe you can. You have a keen brain. You always help me."

Nevil relapsed into silence, and bit nervously at his thumb nail. The woman waited with the
stoical patience of her race. But she was all interest, for had not the man appealed to her
for help?

"It's your brother," Nevil said at last. "Your brother, and the white girl at the farm, Rosebud."

"Yes."

The dark eyes suddenly lit. Here was a matter which lay very near her heart. She had thought
so much about it. She had even dared at other times to speak to her husband on the subject,
and advise him. Now he came to her.

"Yes," the man went on, still with that look of perplexity in his shifty eyes; "perhaps I have
been wrong. You have told me that I was. But, you see, I looked on your brother as a child
almost. And if I let him talk of Rosebud, it was, as I once told you, because he is headstrong.
But now he has gone far enough--too far. It must be stopped. The man is getting out of hand.
He means to have her." 

XIII

The doctor recommended Montifiori was a Catholic, from all points
of view; member two or three religious brotherhoods, he knew reconcile,
as anyone Mass one day happy with dinner one night, the host of the
sacred altar fragrant with seafood Café de Paris.

At home they knew how to paint the aristocratic high pitched clerical eighteenth century. Enough take
a quick look at his small bookstore amateur, to know the fine tastes
man.

Among the literary truffle Brantôme, Casanova and others in the genre, Bossuet and Massillon,
kept the severity of the rows, in points, De Laharpe, M. Bonald, Fontanes and Chateaubriand,
gave the bass note of the empire, while next door, on issues cute, shining all day scented pornographic
obscenities.

The death of my unforgettable Aunt Dona Medea had thrown the world
a widower preserved, rich and large external qualities: my uncle.

Two months after her widowhood, living together: I had left my old comrade, Don Benito. Soon
the house of my uncle Ramon transformed into a completely different room than it had been. There
was a Meeting gay singles and married emancipated from all ages, had money to spare, and therefore
there were many cheerful meals, wines, entertainment of all kinds and the friendly element:
women.

In one day, Don Benito, the pitcher of my uncle, lay or place him
charitably by Hence all the old mulaterío deceased.

Alexander was tolerated only on loan from Don Benito whose service was from his famous collision
with my aunt. The house was transformed: all household items from prehistoric times Pavón was amended
by a modern furniture more correct to contemporary taste. The old family portraits were to
cover the walls in recent quarters, including my aunt, who had reigned twenty years in the main
wall the room.

My uncle Ramón very soon began mourning and gave the world, entirely
to the world, but always weak to the temptations of the flesh, his
seventy million dollars very soon came to be in the conditions for
real in front of a school.

The doctor was the first Montifiori to notice that my uncle was a party, but how, by what means
to start the diplomatic campaign to achieve their ends?

The famous gummy thought, brooded a lot, until one day he hit his forehead with hand, as the man
who has found the solution to a problem.

Thought Montifiori that he could not be Catholic to the rocket, not use their religious beliefs.

The
most influential man in Buenos Aires high society was Mr. Penseroso: an Abbe Greek, from Athens,
a very distinguished man, smooth as a lark, sharp and penetrating
as a needle: a martyr to his face, and an eye that showed off all
the agility of course and the depth that this priest was gifted.

Worthy in its treatment, its influence felt in the classroom, but it was the influence of a
shadow, never imposed by pressure or public events, its passage was like underground, latent,
but efficacious.

Launched my uncle after the death of his wife in a life of disorder for his age and its seriousness,
delayed, stung by the tarantula of theater artists and Dancers of
Columbus, the old man had his coat of the bull, as they say.

Montifiori understood from the outset that my uncle had a weakness to exploit and used as a means
Mr. Penseroso.

Fernanda salon was open for us every night. Don Benito reigned there as a tyrant. Some nights
I used to attend Mr. Penseroso, for whom my uncle had taken a lively
sympathy.

So sweet, so smooth was that most holy and virtuous father!

White made him all kinds of parties and affection to the ingratiating
Abbe: the next sentársele, creature, cold and impassive, turned an
affectionate cat with the priest: he kissed respectfully finger ring
encircled by the rule: he took the hat, she brought her Cup tea and
you put in your mouth candy Roverano some rich, with an indescribable
grace.

The Revenio priest and gave himself yielded to the charm.

White belonged to the Sisters of Saints, a company of girls, of which he was president and
which exerted a very great influence.

In this society going the hands of the Jesuits had made them its regulations discipline, in
which a spirit of inquiry preponderance complete: a booklet quiet,
a few leaves, which abounded transactions with the convenience of
modesty social and religious requirements, where the members were
uneasy virtue of men with their clothes and corporations, the occasions
on which it was lawful sheets, and I think even the bust line of the
neck could not happen.

Mr. White earned Penseroso, body and soul, and Mr. Penseroso, on the one hand, and Montifiori and
White on the other, besieged and surrendered to my uncle.

Soon Don Benito and I warned the consequences.

It was late, my uncle Ramon drooling by the pretty daughter of his
friend and began to society announce her marriage to her.

One day, however, we resolved to Don Benito to make the last effort.

We eat together at home: my uncle was sitting at the table of nines, as a twenty-four chicken
years. After the table, make your visit to the Montifiori.

- Diablo, that you are smart, for a widower so cool - said Don Benito.

- Hey - I said my uncle ...-- to the opera tonight ...

- We are also going, what the devil, but we have come dressed as you ...

- Is that I'm not alone - said my uncle.

- What!

"Pursues an adventure behind the scenes? - Sarcastically asked Don
Benito.

- No ... Let yourself jokes, accompanied the family of Montifiori,
Blanca ...

- Do you? - Asked Don Benito, pointing his finger.

-
Yes, yo, what's strange?

- Don Ramon, you are courting Montifiori
White, do you value?

- Why not?

... if I told you that I am accepted ...

- But, man - I said - this is a union impossible, absurd.

White is a young woman, you almost three times her age.

- July - told me - every reflection is useless Blanca loves me.

- Love your money, my friend - said Don Benito with a bang on the
table.

- Don Benito !...-- cried my uncle, with a gesture of impatience.

-
Hey!

Yes, sir ... your money ... And that marriage is a shame, a shame!

You will be the laughing stock of the world. You, who have come from the clutches of a woman absurd
will fall into the hands of ...

- Don Benito !...-- interrupted
my uncle Ramon.

- Dude - I said - think what you do, you do not block
a woman so young ... wait ... reflect.

- Anyone you would make to
you by a jealous - he said stressing the sentence.

My blood mounted to the face and I could not hide my embarrassment.

- And when will the wedding? - Asked Don Benito, smiling.

- Hey! you go to the devil - said my uncle Ramon, - I am not to be
the subject of his jokes, and rose from the table violently.

Semiramis was given that night, and Columbus was a gala, the boxes are occupied by the most
beautiful and known women of high society, looked dazzling.

He had sung the first act, the Scalchi Borghi and electrified the audience and the room could not
hear but the echo of enthusiasm and praise.

A classic night of opera in Columbus has all the elite that has Buenos Aires in men and women. Just
take a visual to the semicircle of the room: the president, ministers, capitalists, lawyers and lions,
all are there, what is the Vanity Fair, in which no missing its inconsistencies
village: the caretaker of his cap pulled down in the middle of the
room, the company in in menage, installed in one of the best boxes
at the theater, cigar smoke obscuring the entire room.

Had not completed the first act, when in a box on the left appeared Fernanda and with Dr. White
Montifiori Montifiori and uncle. The two women were radiant beauty and luxury. They were like
two sisters.

All eyes focused on the stage, all glasses were fixed on White and Fernanda. Don Benito, who
was beside me, touched me arm.

The entire theater was a single comment.

At our side, we had two young impertinent talking, without knowing,
with all nerve.

- The old one, which now approaches him, - one of
them told the other ...

- It can not be answered this ...--.

- I
say yes, that's the boyfriend ... Toupet that woman.

- But you sure?

-
Most certain ... if you know much about the old man, when I was an
intern in Dr. Trevexo, went every day to study.

- And she know?

-
Bah, bah, school ... skin was the devil when girl ... a pony!

...

Don Benito, dumb, but leaving a slight smile wandered over his lips,
kept touching my arm each word of the indiscreet.

- But it will be
possible to marry?

...

- Well, most true.

- And the father is able to authorize such a marriage?

- A parent
is the guts of a gold ... Three millions of dollars worth, what the
hell!

The comments made by our side those two boys, no doubt the boxes roamed and casserole.

Enough to observe some faces with some attention, to know the impressions
produced theater in the presence of my uncle's box Blanca.

In the pot is felt tajear of languages, as well as feel the scythe mowing a pasture.

The face of the parishioner of the pot is lit with a stage show featuring
with a luxurious and worldly woman - the printing cazuelera immediately
reported her neighbor, - it makes it an appropriate signal to the
matter at issue, then you talk, whisper, laugh, get serious, look
back to the subject of the commentary and the scene lasts until that
the curtain rises.

In the pot is no puppet head hostel maids and maidens, which luxury and wealth do not smile, nor
popular, it becomes Criterion: there are passed by Sieve all the reputations, whether men or
women.

There are published slips of the most beautiful married woman who shines in a box, although
it is more virtuous Lucretia. Here are his love, the lover is pointed with his finger, ridicules
the husband, is told the latest real and intimate adventure with relish, the languages, like
so many knives beard, not content with shaving, behead, finalize, fleshing fleshing honor as
a corpse in the autopsy room. They include, by name, the beloved Men's Fashion, is taken account
of their natural children, it is explained why they broke up marriage to skank, how lost in
the club-so, why he went to Europe, why came, what woman love today, how would you if so, where
they are and even what house citations occur.

Mothers, those who believe that heaven is up, not ever bring forth your daughters casserole.

Pray
to God to take them to hell before Satan, in hell will be more protected your modesty, which
at the gallery where gossip flies, tangled intrigue, slander and
bites jealousy rages.

You have the authority, abolish the pan: in it the elements meted men: women one becomes a snake
in that cavern air.

* * * * *

       That night the pan realized my uncle's reputation and that of White.

The doctor Montifiori, in the midst of profound satisfaction that showed his face for the triumph
of plans, not enough to calculate, despite their great malice and all the poison that had been
distilled the pot on him and on his wife, his daughter and the immaculate head of my uncle Ramon
his future son.

XIV

Six months later, the wedding of my uncle Ramon with White, was
a thing fixed.

No marriage but it has shaken the social circles of Buenos Aires. In the theater, in Palermo
in the dances, clubs, churches are not talking about something else. My uncle had been demolished
and rebuild much of his home in Victoria Street. I had made the decision to abandon, return to live
with Don Benito, but he had allowed me, had started to ask me you would not, and concluded by suplicármelo
so, that too had to quit my regret my projects. The ancient palace of bourgeois had been completely
transformed Berriedale under the artistic direction of Mr. Montifiori. My uncle had decorated his house
with all the Modern comfort and attic. Was this the nest is most beautiful in the world that a woman
could dream, and something unique to the boyfriend had rejuvenated, and had taken all the contours
a man's world.

On June 20, 1883, at nine in the evening, a long series of private
carriages positioning themselves on the most central street of San
Martín and those of them descended, entered through a spacious hall
in a house occupied by a very extensive front.

Door street, covered by a huge scarlet curtain, gave entrance to a gallery hung with red cloth,
profusely illuminated and decorated with garlands and flowers. Two footmen in livery kept their doors
on each side of the entrance. He was there for a warm and friendly atmosphere. All Buenos Aires
aristocratic paraded through this gallery: the great men of state, the high trade, banking,
military, judiciary, forum, letters, press. The women covered by fur and pile variety, earned
the chilly and hasty steps, pinned the arms of their escorts.

That house was the palace of Dr. Montifiori, which should take place that night Uncle Ramon marriage
with Miss White Montifiori, only daughter of the famous man world we know.

The house of Dr. Montifiori well worth a page. The tropics had provided his richest and voluptuous
finery to adorn the spacious lobby covered with Byzantine mosaics. This artificial flora fashion
that prepares the ground carefully, and demands the rare fruits the
fantasy of the artists of botany, rivaled that night with copies most
curious of Garden Plants.

The Tijuca garden had contributed in their most beautiful samples. From the lowest to the highest
lobby, including the grand staircase of carved oak, lazy leaves fell on their stems in large
vessels of pottery or wood fern, Parietaria, the lotus and nenuphares spread their leaves, captive
despotic fashion, under whose rule seem to feel the nostalgia of the lymph of the streams
where they were caught.

Montifiori mansion showed very clearly that the homeowner a yield of intimate worship the century of
the upholstery and bibelotaje, the Goncourt brothers that are intended major represented all
the luxuries of Renaissance murals brighten the walls of the hall:
bronze and marble statues in their columns and their niches, exotic
leaves Japanese vessels and Saxe, enameled earthenware pagodas and
Germanic: all anachronisms of modern decor; in short, Montifiori,
well judged, was a bit bourgeois Monsieur Jourdain to the end.

There much progress, it is true, his extensive travels through Europe, his malice and his instinct,
had supplemented shortcomings and chic on the aristocracy was as Buenos Aires, it is not as fine
art connoisseurs, as intended, despite its innate inadequacy. It is true that the century tapestry
needs two elements to shine: the Jewish bazaars and importer, brocateur, as they call the French
and the bourgeois fool who buys and collects and which is for fine and astute connoisseur of the
old, this invaluable vieux, which All are played, at the risk of that is apocryphal.

Montifiori surrendered their faith to the old, in addition to the great hall Louis XV, carved
furniture and gold, wearing gold-colored velvet of Genoa, in which two wall paintings were occupied
by two Flemish tapestries, the other rooms offered disorder more artistic than you can imagine.
The walls, upholstered in rich brocades imitating roles and cordovan, a series of large paintings
and small absorbed the attention of the curious. Tables were those in which Montifiori encrypt
all their pride.

There was a sketch of a nymph dark against a brown background, illuminated by two or three bold
strokes denouncing the forms of a naked woman breast meat and copious vermilion, and showed
Montifiori as a Rubens in the stands that exhibited plush cherry, and beyond, paintings by
Laucret by Largillière, by Mignard, by Trinquez by Madrazzo by Rico, Egusquiza Arcos. Of these, only
two of the past were real.

Among the fabrics, some bas-reliefs in bronze, and on the furniture, feet of all kinds ancient
and modern bronzes, terracotta Carpeaux, Chapu, and Cordier busts Monteverde and Dupré, a number
of reductions Bardedienne, vases, amphorae and smaller objects on Oriental rugs, including varieties
of trinkets were in enamel, in Saxe, in Sevres, tortoiseshell, ivory old.

As shown, the house of my uncle's father paid tribute to fashion, a greyhound aristocratic race,
there would have found much inconsistency, much apocryphal, many trifling, but the fact was that
Montifiori also understood Japan, tapestries, Flemish tapestries, Venetian glass, pottery and
bronzes of old, lacquers and textiles of Persia and Smyrna.

They walked all ages, all ages, all customs, with a dubious sync if you like, but with a dazzling
brightness of the first effect, with which the more prepared had to close my eyes and declared
that the doctor believes was a full Montifiori man of the world.

In that room, only one in Buenos Aires, Fernando played his baccarat with Don Benito and two or three
friends, nights of theater and dance positions, Mr. Penseroso made his propaganda Gospel and
White in a corner of the room mad at my uncle, telling the passion I had known to inspire a
hundred men of merit who had snubbed him.

Montifiori White's marriage had gathered at home to the most beautiful women of the day. The
report had already made an inventory of gifts. What wonders!

A bride and White out of a thousand branches which are mandatory, but could not get diamonds,
pearls and sapphires. His father, a man of great influence in the circles, her boyfriend, one of
the richest men; Fernanda, fashionable women, Blanca, the highest creature of living in Buenos
Aires, put that conflict evening bag each of the attendees.

It has such unmistakable the official gift in a wedding night!

For we must agree, what the devil! even in the case of my Uncle Ramon and his lovely girlfriend
in Buenos Aires that gives a bit of what to say, buy the cheapest I can but never without compromise
to the point of honor, with self-love which gives, for all want to be the first in the fair exhibits,
spending as little as possible. So the richest gifts of a wedding usually do not make the richest
capitalists, but the needy. That night, for example, Dr. Don Bonifacio de las Vueltas, friend
Montifiori doctor staff, beautiful property, beautiful political position, in a position to serve
and not be served, had given what not impossible pair of statues, bronze imitation cheesy, as
my former boss, Don Eleazar de la Cueva, a broken man in a desperate situation of fortune, had
thrown over the head and neck of the beautiful bride a cascade of pearls and diamonds.

- But that is famous Don Eleazar - Montifiori exclaimed, admiring the splendid dressing the
old Jew is an artist ...--¡ homme de monde! How different from the impossible and mean minister,
who can send these doodles of my daughter!

Curiosity kept quiet to women that night.

They knew by heart all the wedding gifts: diamonds, pearls, sapphires, rubies, rings, chains
and bracelets and diadems series of stone rings and flowers precious, that human vanity had
been deposited at the feet of the creature who sold your body to an old three million more than
sixty years.

But as women protruded, was a chronicle of rags: they had learned the trousseau of memory as the
secret book of the Sisters of the Holy League.

- Twelve street clothes - said an impertinent little person, twenty-five
long years, taking the tip of her satin shoe by the hem of her dress.

-
"Twelve? - I asked the neighbor - Fifteen ... And I've seen them all!

-
Is it possible?

...

- I think smugly replied ...-- which seem more informed.

- They say
there is a splendid dance, bleu d'eau color and a color printed velvet
ivory, trimmed with bouquets of tea roses.

It was soon after sunrise on Monday morning that Seth found himself in the neighborhood of
the principal Indian camp of the Rosebuds. Yet none had seen him come. He was hidden in the
midst of a wide, undergrown bluff. Directly in front of him, but with at least four hundred
yards of uninterrupted view intervening, was the house of Little Black Fox.

Seth was not usually a hard rider--he was far too good a horseman--but when necessity demanded
it he knew how to get the last ounce out of his horse. He had left the farm on Saturday morning,
and at midnight had roused the postmaster of Beacon Crossing from his bed. Then, at the hotel
of Louis Roiheim, he had obtained a fresh horse, and, by daylight on Monday morning, after
traveling the distance through nothing but mazy woodland, had reached the locality of Little
Black Fox's abode. Thus he had covered something like one hundred and seventy miles in less
than forty-eight hours. Nor had he finished his work yet.

Now he lay on the ground in the shadow of the close, heavy-foliaged brush, watching with alert,
untiring eyes. Something of the Indian seemed to have grown into the nature of this uncultured
product of the prairie world. He had smothered the only chance of betrayal by blindfolding
his horse, now left in the well-trained charge of the dog, General. For himself he gave no
sign. Not a leaf moved, nor a twig stirred where he lay. If he shifted his position it must
have been done in the manner of the Indians themselves, for no sound resulted. He knew that
a hundred pairs of eyes would infallibly detect his presence at the least clumsy disturbance
of the bush. For the Indian is like the bear in his native woods. He may be intent in another
direction, but the disturbance of the leaves, however slight, in an opposite direction, will
at once attract his attention.

The squaws were astir at daylight. Now, as the sun rose, it became apparent that there were
many preparations going forward in the chief's quarters. There was a gathering of ponies in
a corral hard by. Also the long "trailers," already packed with tepee-poles and great bundles
of skins and blankets, were leaning against the walls of the corral.

To Seth's practised eyes these things denoted an early departure; and, by the number of ponies
and the extent of the equipment, it was evidently to be the going of a large party. But time
went on, and no further move was made. Only all those who came and went seemed busy; not on
account of what they did, but from their manner and movement. Through the greater part of the
day Seth kept his sleepless watch. Only once did he abandon his post, and then merely to return
to his horse to secure food from his saddle-bags. When he rose to go thither it was to be seen
that he was fully armed, which had not been the case when he left the farm.

Seth's arguments were as simple and straightforward as he was himself, and none the less shrewd.
The position was this. The Indians were in a state of ferment, to which, of course, the chief
was party. Second, the chief was going off on a hunting trip, and apparently abandoning his
people at a critical time. Third, he had received warning of Rosebud's danger from one whose
knowledge and good-will could be relied on. Fourth, the warning had come to them, indirectly,
from the one man who he now had every reason to suspect had no very good-will toward Rosebud;
but he also saw, or thought he saw, the reason of that warning. It was that this man might
clear himself should the chief's plans go wrong. These were Seth's arguments, and he intended
to prove them by remaining on Little Black Fox's trail until he was assured that the danger
to Rosebud no longer existed. It was in the nature of the man that he had sought no outside
aid, except that of his faithful General.

The story the watcher read as he observed the Indians' movements was a long one. The climax
of it did not come until late in the afternoon, and the conclusion not until an hour later.

The climax was reached when he saw a tall figure coming up from the direction of the bridge.
A grim pursing of the lips lent a curious expression to the smile that this appearance brought
to his face. The man was clad in a blanket, and his gait was the gait of an Indian. There was
nothing to give any other impression to the casual observer. But Seth was very intent, and
he saw the color of the man's face. It was then that his lips shut tight and his smile developed
something tigerish in its appearance.

However, he remained quite still, and saw the man pass into the chief's house. He did not reappear
for a full half-hour. When at last he came out he departed at once the way he had come. Half
an hour later the chief's ponies, a number of squaws, and the baggage, set out accompanied
by half a dozen mounted bucks. Another half-hour and Little Black Fox appeared and vaulted
to the back of his waiting pony. A dozen warriors joined him almost at the same moment, gathering
from different directions, and the chief rode off at their head.

Then it was that Seth rose from his hiding-place. He stood watching the going of these men
until he had made sure of the direction they were taking. They were making for the river ford,
and he instantly ran back to his horse and mounted. Just for a second he hesitated. Then he
set off for the wagon bridge as fast as he could urge his horse.

It was late the same afternoon that Charlie Rankin rode up to the River Farm and greeted Rube,
who was hard at work upon the stockade. He was a large, cheery Britisher, with a florid face
and ready laugh. He drew up with a jerk, sprang to the ground, and began talking with the perfect
freedom of long friendship.

"I've passed the word, Rube," he said, without any preamble. "It's gone the round by this time.
I thought I'd run over and consult you about the womenfolk. I'm new to this work. You are an
old bird. I thought of sending the missis into Beacon."

Rube paused in his work and surveyed the horizon, while, in his slow way, he wiped the perspiration
from his weather-furrowed face.

"Howdy, Charlie," he said, without displaying the least concern. "Wal, I don't know. Y' see
this thing's li'ble to fizzle some. We've had 'em before. Guess my missis an' the gal'll stay
right here by us. My aunt was working in her flowers, and I close it, hearing it entertained
me.

- Did you like me to marry Angelina?

- Why not? - Said elated
.-- If it's so good!

If you want both!

I do not know why I turned on the face. Angelina never thought I could love me. Well seen the
case, why not? Angelina was very lovable. I did find out if someone had set eyes on her.

- And tell me, aunt: "Angelina has not had a boyfriend?

- By God,
Rorra!

From the other day you're with it !.... No, sir. Angelina is a little girl judiciously. Angelina
will have no boyfriend who becomes her husband. She is not able play with love.

- I think so, but .... Tell me: has not had candidates?

- Ah! That's another thing.

So! - And my aunt joined the fingers of his right hand and moved as To indicate a crowd of people.

- In Pluviosilla - continued - many!

A rich Spanish, a youth of very biting and endiantrado pharmacy,
able to laugh at shadows, a handsome college, which he wrote poems,
others, and others.

Here ... here ....

- Who?

- One no more.

- Who?

- Your friend,
classmate of yours ....

- Pepe Lopez?

- No.

- Say you, Aunt ....

-
Guess.

- Edward, the son of the mayor?

- No. Eddie is a piece of
cork.

He, the mayor's son, fancy to a girl poor?

When!

The love for Fernández Gabrielita ....

- The young blonde, who plays
the piano very well?

- Already know?

- The other day I saw her at
the gate.

- Beautiful!

Is not it true?

- Reguapa!

Linda like a sun!

- Eduardo will perish by it.

- So who is the suitor of Angelina?

- Guess!

- Ocaña Jacinto?

- God forbid!

- Agustín Venegas?

- Jesus me excuses!

Do not you say it is a friend of yours ?....

- Ricardo Tejeda?

-
The same dresses and shoes!

- It is feared rival! - I said to myself.

XIV

Sometimes I was chatting in the pharmacy of Don Procopio Meconium.

In that famous hangout, center recreational idle and unemployed,
was met at all times the young and handsome and older more talkative
of the Buddhist city.

At the pharmacy concurred: Venegas, spirit strong liberal of the
new pitch, infant republican, very bitter against the ill-fated test
imperial Jacinto Ocaña, monarchist to bone marrow, that whenever spoke
of Maximilian, was discovered respectfully, and every moment latching
disputes with Venegas, bringing to dance the Saratoga and the Treaty
Mac-Lane, and Dr. Don Crisanto Sarmiento backward on all four sides,
who lived pining for the colonial regime, which was made languages
​​of Revillagigedo, who readily restored in Mexico saw the Holy Tribunal
of the Faith, and that when one spoke of Independence, he said, casting
of Acute

- The damn "India independence" has made us a pity!

I do not know how many more, among whom the owner of the pharmacy, the invariable Don Procopio,
wild player, who had made that temple of Galen in a sanctuary of Birj. We used to see there at P.
Solis. Came from time to time, when they had less social gatherings; be read from cover to
cover periodicals, and then ... Chatting with Sarmiento and Venegas! While Don Procopio played
in with his brothers, out in front of the counter, in the presence of buyers, often tangled talks
became disputed. Venegas was pleased to attack the fallen empire, Sarmiento argued hot and full
of verve. The Republican Catholicism was beating, the doctor said the Liberal Party pests.
The teacher, very fond of the "Political Catechism"

Pizarro Suarez claimed do not know what reasons for religious tolerance,
and those opposed to its opposite number Protestant arguments as those
used by newspapers in the late 56 and early of 57.

The doctor sat in Jupiter brings out their arguments in the form, science seminarian, and finally,
the outpourings of Sarmiento replied with insults.

Fr Solis, thoughtful and phlegmatic, was stayed, listened and kept quiet until to calm encouragement,
to arbitrate in the dispute. First, this was their tactic - it went straight to the doctor;
was granted the right, but bitterly reproaching his exaggerations of monarchist.

- Iturbide, (to whom the Declaration of Independence calls "a genius above all praise") made
nonsense. In our time nobody improvises king or emperor. Paper only as high block who was cradled
in royal birth, who was born on the steps of a throne. A people is not gives to himself, only
"because they want" good governance and good institutions. It should that the search according
to their traditions, it is necessary to take into account lessons of its history, it is necessary
that the institutions and the government will come form appropriate
cassock like me, you coat, bag and this young man short.

There you have explained ephemeral empire of Maximilian.

Then, turning to the religious question, serene and restful said:

- Amigo, Don Crisanto: I understand that the Church does not sponsor or monarchies or republics.
For her, any form of government is good ... When is good! It matters little that the head
of a state is called president or king or emperor. No, friend, do not have to pretend that you want.
Nothing to identify the political issue with the religious question.

Then shut against Venegas. Was to hear him when, in a concise, brief, incisive, pilloried the nonsense
of a teacher who knew nothing right and everything is back words
and booming sound.

He mocked him and laughed at the best of its conclusions Lutheran
and then countered, quite correctly, the errors of youth.

- Young!

Young! - Burst into preachy tone .-- This Constitution that you put by the clouds, has been made
in accordance with the needs of the country. As I point ignored it is against religion. Struggle
against our customs. Our bishop is not educated to those freedoms. Tell me, if I answer a demand
would have to consult with Castro Pérez, or any shyster, what if
one day I will get a deputy and I have to legislate?

And anyone can become a member: you, the doctor, the Indian who is on there, very busy with their
sovereignty, I .... No, not me, because I am a priest, a minister worship, and therefore am not
a citizen more than half. Well of course! or you would not know what would do, and vote for the
good of God, or whatever it is safer to the good of the Devil.

Now, as to such dirty tricks that you have vomited against the Holy Mother Church, we to the
point, sir, and my friend, you know not what they say. It is! All the science you is in the
Catechism of Nicholas Pizarro. Come on, girl: you drink cleaner sources, and do not talk for now
of things that do not understand. And this peace, and then glory! And farewell, friends! I'm
going, I have not prayed the office, and is the short hour of chocolate. Do you like?

The exclaustrated was going; Sarmiento comprised the hat and took the base, and Venegas pests
saying monks marched and retrograde.

We stayed commenting on the conversation of the guests, until the six me I was going to install
a seat in the Plaza, to hear Miss Fernandez touch.

Good to know that the Fernandez family was frowned upon in the city. Their culture shocked to
Villaverde good Buddhist.

When he bought the farm in Santa Clara, Mr. Fernandez came to live in my hometown, and sought
to relate to his family the best of Villaverde.

But they did not sex with anyone, better said: not correspond villaverdinos
to the wishes of Mrs. and Miss Fernandez.

They only became close with Sarmiento and P. Solis, because although the main families visited
the city, not my good countrywomen samples were estimated by the newcomers.

The people of Villaverde, particularly women, were not welcome the customs Fernandez family. She
murmured, whispered about Miss nonsense and teasing and, of course, the nice and elegant chick
liked any of this.

- Gabriela Fernandez? More proud! More frivolous! How smug! What tuned! What you will believe? If
you believe that we have not seen Villaverde luxury and elegance .... Yes, yes, we know who says
that this population is a large farm .... Believe that comes to dazzle
with externalities and their costumes.

And all for what? Because they can play the piano. There is Castro Perez Luisita as well as
she plays, and yet it is modest and humble. Well deceives; not have to visit or for one of these
nine things. To enjoy your class your money! That Gabrielita her clothes look expensive! For all we
need it. What fun! - Repeated The envious .-- What fun! All the guys from here go to shrift!
Best! Best! Marquesitas Who sends love! Well seen, who are lovers? Eddie ... Eddie only! The
fool, as you have money, like his father is rich, sure will listen.

My countrymen were quick to warn that late afternoon I spent hours listening to me play to Gabrielita.
One night, he entered the pharmacy, I heard talk of Miss Fernandez and saying something about me. I soon
learned that in all the corridors, in all the gossip in every house, they said and repeated
that I was in love, I drank the wind by the daughter the wealthy
owner of Santa Clara.

XV

One afternoon I received a note from Don Roman, a note very punticomada,
gracefully written, with the excellent letter that Palomares years
ago that my teacher gave skilful reputation hangers.

"My dear disciple and friend

"Like you I offered yesterday, last night I was to visit Mr. Mr. Castro
Perez to speak about you, and how useful it could be in the office.

As I told him I thought it appropriate: I told him of your good qualities, your good character,
your hardworking nature, your statement strong and targeted, and the difficulty that I was to
continue the studies and career started so brightly, and the need that you looked to find something
productive. Oyome of goodwill (which I thought was a good omen) and I promised to take in the
matter at the earliest. I judge it necessary to make a visit as soon as possible and I recommend
you try my friend (who was also very close, the Lord your grandfather) your great and characteristic
kindness, courtesy makes you unique. Castro Pérez is paid much of externalities, and to have
you flatter environment is necessary. It's manic, and slightest thing goes against him. And
leave you prepared the field. Up to you to rest.

"Come over here. The liver is me since yesterday, annoying and 'achicopalado.
"

Come, talk, and you show you something you'll like it much, some hexameters I forged last night
against those "wise men" of "The Shadow" and "The Voice."

"You know how much you want this your teacher and friend

Román López.

     

He gave me a bad feeling the esquelita my master teacher. Of course I thought I was going to
try a man of bad character. This got me upset. I figured it was a Castro Pérez of those lawyers
old peritísimos Court issues, but otherwise few out-and-out ignorant, a village matron, paid
his fame and his science, those who long for everything old, and are always unwilling to everything
new, a phantoms angry, grumpy, those who view with suspicion by young people, and are pleased
at all hours censored encyclopedic education these days, which, while not bulk produce non-breeding
wise fools, like so many old people I knew, fenced in his learning scenario, very arrogant
and cocky with his science, science meager and mean that conquer them in the popular vile fans
and acolytes of that pass as they say amen Socrates of the village, so they loose the biggest
blunder. In a word, I figured Castro Pérez was one of those old lawyer, replete with Latin
phrases, which are known memory the items that are allowed to push in canon, and who write
miss with 'h', 'cape theologians' as they were called "in illo tempore"; experts in the legal shenanigans,
but vacuous by everything else habilis to hide their ignorance and dismissive of what they
do not understand; watching everyone with an air of protection, and to appear serious and brainy,
showing inaccessible and go for a few wonders sullen and come to be, in towns and cities like Villaverde,
lords of life and property.

Nothing you will draw from them if you appear humble, submissive, hardcore fans their people.
Woe to you if you approach such lofty gentleman, pretending that expect all of them! Woe outcasts
who do not give up! Surely, nothing will, of fixed all will answer in monosyllables, and leave
there angry and desperate.

I hated to follow the advice of my teacher. I understood very well what it meant to me by saying,
"I recommend you treat my friend with your great and feature goodness"; but it shocked me
introduce myself as a shy and meticulous donated pretending estimate that did not happen to
me the limits of a vulgar and common respect, as we give all for reasons of politeness and courtesy.
What to do? I started to follow the advice of "Pomposísimo Cicero ', and late afternoon, just
before it rang the Angelus, I went to Pérez Castro's house.

He lived behind the parish, in a dilapidated and gloomy mansion.

When I reached the hallway I was tempted to go back and go talk to
Don Procopio.

I bite the bullet and walked to the door of the office.

- Inside!
- Said a high-pitched voice.

- "Mr. Castro Perez?

- Inside! - Repeated
falsetto.

It was the scribe. Bad impression made me very sensitive little person. It was a pale boy, haggard,
bloodless and consumed by work, a wretch condemned, no doubt, to life imprisonment in that
world of files and tomes, always bent over that table covered with
a green baize table in front of that lead inkwell filled with ink
born thick.

- "Mr. Castro Perez?

- In the other room! - He said
the clerks.

- I can go?

- Go you.

I slipped the rundown.

My man, almost lying on an armchair near the window, looking through
a file.

Joined to feel upset, left the seat, and went to close the door, perhaps so that the clerk could
not hear us.

- What sent you? - I said, frowning.

- My teacher, Mr. Don Roman Lopez, has recommended me ....

Pérez
Castro's face changed expression.

- Come on, girl, - muttered getting
up and offering me a seat, - here you have a chair.

My man returned to his armchair, and then over his glasses, looked at me from head to toe.

- What is available? Ah! Now I remember! Are you the young clerk that you want to enter in this
house?

- Yes, sir.

- Well .... We will see, see if you are useful. Here we have a lot of work. You know: My customers
are numerous, and therefore do not need task.

If you want to work ....

- It's what I want ...-- muttered, looking down, while the lawyer
looked me straight in the eye.

- Well, I want it, trabajadorcito.

Ten clerks have changed this year, and that Indeed, none has left
me happy.

Best not worth three snails!

- Do not pretend to be worth much, but ... procure, under such right
direction, learn in a short time as necessary.

Pérez Castro smiled, and two hands clasping the thumb and the index is composed glasses, and then
patting the abdomen, and fell back and stopped me.

- None of flattery, young man! Nothing worthy of what they say about me ....

He spoke slowly and calmly, hearing.

- You are by far modest ...--¡
Here! - I said .-- Here the incense! - Who is not aware the talents
of you, your profound knowledge of his reputation, his honesty purge?

They praise me blushed.

- Well! Well! We'll see if you get what you want.

Are you effectively recommended Roman. He tells me you was his pupil, and the more advanced
....

- The Lord my teacher loves me, and me too lenient.

I want to work, and I sure to advance to next person so recommended.

Who does not know that you are the first Counsel for the State of Veracruz!

Pérez Castro swelled up like a turkey, rocked in the chair, pretended
to blush, and said:

- To the Point!

To the Point! Do you know the industry?

- No, sir.

- Well then, how are you applying for a job that is unknown?

I have good news you.

Roman and I said you're a smart boy, who can you make nice verses
.... But it is well known: they are the best employees who go around
all day consonants to hunt ....

I wanted to strangle the old man.

-
Sir, - I said - it is true that I make verses, but do not live so
pleasantly delivered to occupation.

Also, I have understood you ... usually make ... And very beautiful!

-
Thanks, girl!

Remains of my hobbies youth! In truth that poetry tends to captivate, but only from time to
time. Well, well, well!

This was his crutch.

- I hope you in memory of my grandfather .... Romao and would speak
of the circumstances where I am.

I can not return to Mexico, I can not continue their studies, and
I am obliged get me a piece of bread ....

- Well!

Well! Well! So does a young delicate.

We will see, see if you serve me.

But I must warn you ... up within a week I can not solve.

Tomorrow I'll see if I can reconcile several things. Come back here,
Friday or Saturday .... Y.. you say.

Do you have good lyrics?

- Regular, sir.

- Come on. There you have what is necessary.

Obscured. On the table was a candlestick with a candle.

- Do not you see? Then light the candle and write down what you like.

Obeyed. I took the pen and wrote: "If Mr. Castro Perez Bachelor receive me worthy home, will
try to serve him with all faithfulness. "

I went to the lawyer, taking the blade and spark plug. My man sat in his armchair, was composed
with both hands, glasses, and read what was written.

- Well!

Well! Well! According! I prefer the old and gallant Spanish lyrics .... But end, you is clear
and beautiful. The English lyrics so mannered and smug!

And after a pause:

- You know: Friday or Saturday ....

- I'll come over here ....

-
No, I'll call you.

I understand that there will Pérez Castro fell
ill. That told me two days later the worthy Don Roman.

- The thing
is for sure, boy. You nailed a pike in Flanders!

XVI

We were in
late October, mediated the fall, and the fields were green again by
rain show off their foliage. The morning was crystal clear, fresh,
prodigal of light, and sunsets short, splendid, incomparable. 

I
was happy to wander around Villaverde. A hundred times I traveled
the banks of the Stony, and many others saw, from the top of Brush
Hill, sunset. My Site favorite, where I went every evening, was almost
flat rock, which appeared collapsed the last peak, and sideways on
a rock, gave me a comfortable seat that surrounded buvardias coral,
soft Cebadillas fragrance, wonderful and flowing grasses ferns which
floated on the wind, scattered the brown feathers of ripe ears.

What
a beautiful picture! At my feet the first streets of the city, as
extended in yellow plush carpeting, the mall Santa Catalina, buildings
crowding in proportion as they approached the Plaza, the town divided
by the river, and along it Franciscan Monastery, grim and sombre,
desolate and sad, like crying absence of beggars.

North side, the
hills of San Antonio, the pastures of the brush, the shacks of Barrio
Alto, hidden in the thicket of jinicuil and orange groves.

To the
east, the most picturesque in the valley. Right and left the mountains
of Mata-Thick, covered with the lush vegetation of the lowlands, the
hill of the Otates that seen from the point where I was, like a camel
lying on the sand awaiting the breath scorching deserts.
"Guess ther' ain't no need to say anything. Mebbe I know."

But Seth had misinterpreted her action. He thought she meant to explain. She kept hold of his
hand, and tears were in her lovely eyes as she looked up into his dark face, now little more
than a shadow in the faint light that came from the passage.

"Oh, Seth, Seth, it was all my fault!" she cried, in her distress. "Your poor shoulder! Oh,
what should I do if you were to die! Oh----" And the girl fell on her knees at his side and
kissed the hand she was clinging to. The long threatened tears had come at last, and her voice
was choked with sobs.

Seth had been unprepared for this outburst. It took him quite aback, and he felt a great lump
rise in his throat. Unconsciously he almost roughly released his hand. But the next moment
it was laid tenderly upon the bowed head.

"Git up, little gal," he said. And there was a world of tenderness in his voice. His effort
at self-restraint was great, but his feelings found a certain amount of expression in spite
of him, for he was stirred to the depths of his loyal heart. He was face to face with a scene
such as he had never even pictured. His sense of duty was powerless just then before his deep,
strong love for the girl. "Little Rosebud," he went on, and he struggled hard to make his words
rough, "ther's things to do. Go right back to Ma an' help her. I must go out to Rube. He's
doin' all the work, an' so is she."

The girl made no move to rise. Her sobs were heart-breaking. Seth turned sharply and left her
where she was. He simply dared not stay there another moment.

Outside General was lying a few yards away from the house, crouched alertly, and gazing out
prairiewards. He called the dog to him.

"Injuns, boy," he said, in a low tone. "S-seek 'em!"

The dog responded with a low growl, and then moved off out into the darkness, with the prowling
gait of a puma stalking its prey.

"He'll keep us posted," Seth observed quietly to Rube.

"You kind o' understan' him."

"He understands Injuns," the dog's master returned significantly. No more was said for a while,
and the two men peered out into the darkness with eyes trained to such watchfulness.

"'Bout them tents?" said Rube later on.

"They're the troops. The postmaster told me they were comin' hard."

"Kind o' handy."

It was very dark. The moon had not yet risen. Presently Seth fetched a chair. The older man
watched him seat himself a little wearily.

"Hurt some?" he said.

"Jest a notion," Seth replied in his briefest manner.

"Say, you got around jest in time."

"Yup. Wanaha put me wise after I left here, so I came that aways. Say, this is jest the beginnin'."

"You think----"

"Ther's more comin'. Guess the troops 'll check it some. But--say, this feller's worse'n his
father. Guess he's jest feelin' his feet. An' he's gettin' all the Pine Ridge lot with him--I
located that as I came along."

They talked on for some time longer, in their slow, short way discussing their plans. The one
topic they did not discuss was Rosebud. 

Posts in peace very soon, he continued:

- By the way, take me two years to date, although Deny drag, without a hint of fear of God,
and already has four consecutive hard right weight. Was always much wineskin, good appetite
and better behavior. So he has come so here, not a bad gripe. Never addiction took him as the
priest, to the big game ... in the brambles, you understand, because the edge your home or fireside,
an ox is zampa two sittings, if he is offered. For that and other things, well we call that we want,
not that bad I take no offense, "Marmitón."

- Celso! - Don Pedro
Nolasco here roared, kicking at the edge of the plateau in supporting
feet, shod in sneakers black belts, the same as the parish priest
and my uncle.

And then I noticed that underneath I was wearing slippers alagartadas mean, green, large black
dots.

- That's all you ugly, except the face - my uncle said to him quietly -: the great ... In a
javelin that point you jealous, maybe a joke.

We left a searing and and you want to get into another ...

- Barájolas! - Don Pedro Nolasco said crossing himself -.

Have you seen another like it? Swindling of demons, "because I've got you and me so much,
since over the other?

My uncle ignored him, and he asked me:

- Have you seen it right?

Well, with these bristles and all, is the neighbor of the people noblón the best friend of
his friends, and it's grapes from our vine. Take heart in hand and give the skin when there
is no layer from the poor. I tell you, Marmitón of demons, but hit me - he said turning to
the giant -, I'm telling you, cuartajo!, I, I have good evidence
to be true: and I say to the soul and life.

If you want to believe me believe me, if not worse for you. Is not that right, Cura?

- Est Deus in nobis - he replied, shaking his head from side to side
as he says something good that is also undisputed -.

There is no getting around it, Deus in nobis est, semper et located. And if not, poor us each bungling
of that weapon Satan in the disputes of men.

- Well, well - my uncle
said, turning to his friend who jokes or moved, with big eyes fixed
on the fire -.

Now I want you to stay to dinner with us, not for me I do not deserve,
but to honor my nephew.

- A good time! - Murmured the giant stirring
a little look into Don Celso and unloading much the celajes of his
face.

- Do you mean because you eaten yet?

"- Replied my uncle.

- Naturally.

- Well, for that matter, because
I assumed, you invited me.

In stomachs like yours, called prime prime ... And to encourage you and make it more round and
full tonight, I also invited you, Priest.

- That's another thing - then Don Pedro Nolasco said, going straight
to the imagination -: if It is ...

We denied the Cure to it in all
earnest, but insistently my uncle and I commit myself also accepted
at the end.

- Have you heard, Tona?

... Well Bring the story to Facia to put two dishes on table, and you add what is missing,
if it is missing something in the kitchen.

Tona said that was left with what was leaning over the fire, where everyone ate "As God commanded,"
and my uncle, while the big man with hoarseness received the conditional the servant had cast
his eyes thither, gave the history and topped ordered it was another fun.

Or both were not even for my taste, the few that surfaced later, as the blonde Bouncers and Facia,
the gray woman, who was in and out often, they gave the last arrimados condumios touches on
fire. For my part, and 'to get by in the conversation » I had to provide, at the behest of the
priest and Don Pedro Nolasco, four vague on "These worlds of God, for which both had been shot
in the words of the same gentlemen, and less concerned and that at first as there was, and being
able to bring my attention to other terms of the box, I noticed, among other things, that Chisco
Tona and took no part in it than with the eyes and the occasional laugh or cry, and that such
a servant, for her face and her figure, from head to toe, in short, was what was called a
good girl.

- You see - even told me my uncle - who here does not hang out too bad, after the fact man these
things so different from "beyond." And better yet passed, as you go see, for tonight does not
rule: it is not that time today, they do not press the cold and much of the corn without leaves,
and we have leafless, because first things first, but allow yourself to run day and the sky begins
to turn brown and "Rebombo" the Pozon Pena Sagra, piece of junk! people come and see this kitchen,
until he night not fit in these banks, each with its accoutrement and its theme ... montuna
all people, for cash: jastialones pure. We must arm ourselves sometimes much stamina, yes, because
in a flock, Zanchetta! Not all beasts are in the same condition, but the best times are the
most, and as not ask camuesa chestnuts ... Come on, you have to entertain, if you accustom
to it ... and God will do so.

- Well not to jacerlu! - Don Pedro
Nolasco said, surprised that it was doubted he had the indubitable.

-
A morning usque ad noctem custody speret Israel in Domino - Don Sabas
confirmed - without counting with what I have said and I never tire
of repeating: Deus in nobis est, and therefore should not despair
of anything that is honest, convenient and good man according to the
holy law of God.

When it came time to go to dinner, asked Don Pedro Nolasco very surprised:

- But how? ... Do not dine here?

- No sir! - Replied my uncle pushing toward the door.

- But why? - Insisted that standing on the hearth.

- Curiosón of demons - returned the other, turning to him from the middle of the kitchen -. First,
a given mud you should not put studs, and lastly, you have of knowing you, swallow-knockers of
jinojo that not all time are some, not all men are equal. Do you understand me now?

This occurred in the instant Chisco, mandated by Tona, was approaching the wall I had been
in front, which was adapted a board, he loosened the Taravilla held above, you spun on the
axle was in the down side, and left him horizontal position supported by a tentemozo. Requesting
information on the use of that unit, I found that the table was 'lazy' to my uncle who had
alluded in the dining room.

- And why they put it now? - Ask.

- For dinner the servants as soon as we get the hell out of here -
he answered.

I liked the device, which was armed with a short distance from hearth
novelty tentóme that, certainly I think the good joined notorious
Don Pedro Nolasco.

- As for me - my uncle said with firm resolve
- to lift the cloth at the other table and tend to it.

For give you a taste, I sent to dine there: you know that mine is very different. Also, for
what I have for dinner ... So if you prefer this ...

Agreed, at my request, that for the night stay the way things were, dining forth in the lazy and
leaving the dining room table for lunch, she stooped down its pedestal
Don Pedro Nolasco, and left the kitchen, the four people in swath,
Tona following we lit the way with a candle that had lowered the hood
the fireplace.

And what happened while I was dreading doing, for what had been observed around the fire and
the chores of repolluda cook, that dinner was ready in my honor to serve as a temptation rather
than terror and solace to my diner swallows, made and tasty seasoned to the kitchen parvidades
mundane. Start counting by covered and two silver spoons fashioned way, a loaf of bread "home"
eight glasses green glass bottle and a very black, all he had and was appearing on the table was
solid and big and rich to the unbelievable. First, a bucket of milk soup, then a very serious source
of a turnip soup salad, then an omelette of bacon, followed by a spicy offal, and, finally,
a huge apple compote, and much cheese from sheep. The only thing in short supply there were
light and heat because of the oil lamp wicks was almost lost in black space before reaching the
table, and chamuscón that I had given me in the kitchen only served in the dining room to feel doubly
glacial temperature of that wilderness.

The Cure, contrary to what I expected from their size, ate nothing but regularly, and was clean
and rested in the eating. My uncle tried everything not like anything, and I satisfy my need,
more than appetite, twelve hours, almost as much as the sight of abundant food, as the parvidades
that they took ... But Don Pedro Nolasco! ... I had no measure their calo stomach vulture devoured
up to the eyes, and much that does not fit in the mouth while worked
his throat, Corriale in rivulets on the outside to sink under the
sobarba between leather jacket, or mixed dropwise with the filth of
the vest.

They spoke little on the table, and this was most recently my uncle to say insulting glutton,
who did not answer, nor do I think I heard him, and to ponder his surprise at what picky I
came across him in the dining room, and especially by the 'plan' for my supper, so on, I drew him. I could
not understand the good lord that a boy of my age and my health,
ate as he put forward at any time of day or night.

"Rich and hearty" was the motto of good men eat lavish coat of my uncle.

Walking into this and "belch" and the giant for not having the stomach thing that more juice
entertainment, a bell was heard hourglass toward the more obscure and remote from the room.

- Half past ten! - Said my uncle turning in the bank -. I think it's time leave you in peace.
The trip will be well ground bones, and you'll want to overthrow in bed. Otherwise you would not
believe: the labyrinth of cattle down, and the gathering of up after praying the Rosary, rare
is the night we went to bed early ... And You see, you'll see, pispajo!
how we live here, but montunos and poor, the wealthy use City ...
"So entendístelo, Marmitón?

Well, Jorrios! While you're jartu, and his house which does.

Levantámonos all thanked the priest, and faithfully fulfilled We replied,
and went with Don Pedro Nolasco, not without making me see the stars
again with the handshakes I got for dismissal.

Shortly thereafter, I locked myself in my room, paseábame over him trying to think in many things
without actually thinking based on anything I do not know if it really
did not want, or because he could not think otherwise.

With this darkness in my brain and the continuous hum River in Glen,
I finally feel sleepy, and went to bed.

Clean white clothes like the sun was my bed, but how cold ... and how hard I found it!

V

However, I slept all night in one fell swoop, but dreaming a lot and many things each more extravagant.
I remember that I dreamed of the bear the Port, with gorges and ravines they had no end, and so
narrow throat, I could not even walk by them in sideways. Persisted in fleeing the fierce pass
that I was swaying on his feet back and licking his nose, forcing both wedge my body, which stirred
the mountains at their bases and ranged up there, high up! the rocky peaks, and even collapsed
many of them on me, but without hurting myself. I also dreamed my uncle dancing in the kitchen
by the fire, some women seguidillas gray singing ringing a large
skillet; and then with Don Pedro Nolasco, who ate raw calves and birch
logs and rocks Bardales granite, while they were eating up to me,
fiber to fiber and little by little, the Boredom and Melancholia,
one of the most horrible marriage, who lived at the bottom of an abyss
end anywhere.

Perhaps because that was my last dream of the night, was so sad I wake up in the morning. Because
it was really sad! But I slept with wary curiosity to know sight of land they had voluntarily
bury, and feeling suddenly revive that strong desire to see a bit of light filtering through
the cracks of the doors, I rose quickly, Laverne shivering in the
shelter envolvíme thickest of the various I had at my disposal, and
looked at the same balcony that I had looked at night.

The rain had stopped, but he was the wretched remnant of sky was visible from there a heightened
head full of clouds passing at full speed over the rock border disappeared over the roof of
the house. Between cloud and cloud and when it broke a joint of the tight rope, hinted at a jironcito
blue, dotted with pearly glaze; something like hope for some sunshine
later, if by chance in that wild governing region weather the same
laws in the world I knew.

Leaving this point in doubt, went down with the look and attention
to what interested me at the moment: what could be seen from the earth
in all directions from my observatory mossy stone with rusted iron
railing.

Very little was it, God of mercy!

Forward and almost touching his hand, a huge rock that was out of sight at the top, and even continued
to grow as he walked away up the hill to my left, step toward decreased slowly right and as it
stretched down the hill, to crash, become slope, a mountain that cuts off her skirt extending
from one side to another. Touching the rock of the hill and to disappear into the gap left by
the left between the bottom of the hill and mountain, down the river to escape, tumbling and prancing
and roaring in its channel narrow and deep, covered with weeds and mysteries. Tilted towards
the river between him and the house, below, front and left of the balcony, viscous soil moist
slabs with patches of grass, moss, nettles and Bardales. In right and almost lead to the balcony,
the principle of a front yard that was down and gave back at right angles to the other, as
well as the shed that fencing on the side the river, and was destined, by visible signs, blocks,
fuelwood and hay. By hindrance of these roofs and the long line of the façade of the house,
only reached to see the right, a narrow strip of cultivated land, parallel to the river and falling
the valley, as all traces, extended to that part, ie, right River. And all this, the courtyard
and roofs, and the ground outside, and the brambles and ferns and the railing of the balcony,
in short, as was seen or felt from my observation, moist, glistening and dripping.

There being no smiling thing that put the light on that side, we went to the other facade corresponding
to clear the border to my bedroom. Through this door I went to a large balcony or "Sunshine"
wood sandwiched between two "corners" or mensulones masonry, also called "Firewall." In my right
protruding edge thickness and cut of a coat of arms headed could not see it sticking out the
corners of the balcony railing. Unable see also from there, and for the same reason, the rest of
the facade, I supposed, and not without reason, that the building was occupied by my body overhang.
The balcony fell on a garden of the same width as that facade of the house, and very little
longer, with corresponding inclinations toward her and toward the river, a dozen fruit trees in skeleton,
a box half rotten cabbage, some plants of rue, marjoram and rosemary, a vicious rose fallow
Moreover, an old wall to fence it all, and over the wall, the emerging black moles of a rocky
amphitheater of mountains that are beyond walking in tall with the rock on the right, which
was part of it. And you could not see otherwise.

From the direction of light and other signals rather easy to estimate, say for sure that front
of the house faced south, and the lastral coming down to my left, ie to the east, between the
wall of the garden and the mountain on that side from a high cliff that I saw something far
away, I had come the night before. Seth thought that it was due to the reasonableness
of his own arguments, but then his knowledge of women was trifling. The girl had read something
underlying the man's words which he had not intended to be there, and had no knowledge of having
expressed. Where a woman's affections are concerned a man is a simple study, especially if
he permits himself to enter into debate. Seth's strength at all times lay in his silence. He
was too honest for his speech not to betray him.

"Yes, I know, Seth, you are right and I am wrong," she said, and her tone was half laughing
and half crying, and wholly penitent. "That's just it, I am always wrong. I have done nothing
but bring you trouble. I am no help to you at all. Even this fresh trouble with the Indians
is my doing. And none of you ever blame me. And--and I don't want to go away. Oh, Seth, you
don't know how I want to stay! And you're packing me off like a naughty child. I am not even
asked if I want to go." She finished up with that quick change to resentment so characteristic
of her.

The touch of resentment saved Seth. He found it possible to answer her, which he did with an
assumption of calmness he in no way felt. It was a pathetic little face that looked up into
his. The girl's anger had brought a flush to her cheeks, but her beautiful eyes were as tearful
as an April sky.

"Guess we've all got to do a heap o' things we don't like, Rosie; a mighty big heap. An' seems
to me the less we like 'em the more sure it is they're right for us to do. Some folks calls
it 'duty.'"

"And you think it's my duty to go?"

Seth nodded.

"My duty, the same as it was your duty always to help me out when I got into some scrape?"

Without a thought Seth nodded again, and was at once answered by that hollow little laugh which
he found so jarring.

"I hate duty! But, since I have had your splendid example before me for six years, it has forced
on me the necessity of trying to be like you." The girl's sarcasm was harsh, but Seth ignored it.

As she went on her mood changed again. "I was thinking while that old man was talking so much,"
she said slowly, "how I shall miss Pa, and Ma, and old General. And I can't bear the idea of
leaving even the horses and cattle, and the grain fields. I don't know whatever the little
papooses at the Mission will do without me. I wonder if all the people who do their duty feel
like that about things? They can't really, or they wouldn't want to do it, and would just be
natural and--and human sometimes. Think of it, Seth, I'm going to leave all this beautiful
sunshine for the fog of London just for the sake of duty. I begin to feel quite good. Then,
you see, when I'm rich I shall have so much to do with my money--so many duties--that I shall
have no time to think of White River Farm at all. And if I do happen to squeeze in a thought,
perhaps just before I go to sleep at night, it'll be such a comfort to think everybody here
is doing their duty. 

= B = Skin conditions .-- We will just list the skin conditions attached or not these diathesis,
and which correspond to the symptoms of graphite fistulous ulcers, even with a bone lesion was
cured under its influence is also necessary to resort to cystus canadensis or silica. Graphite
is one of the most effective means to sores samosas, varicose phagedenic, after the action of
sulfur, and is on the same line as the club moss, phosphoric acid; the charcoal. You may be given as
specific to the area, as is at least ivy union to order more medication to ease pain of the pustular
eruption, and to shorten the duration admirably, even in people, Moreover, good sound. Arsenic,
and mercury causticum are effective means in the same disease, but the particulars of which
only the first two have been traced.

Graphite has a remarkable efficacy in many herpes wet conditions, exudates, as opposed to calcium
carbonate and other drugs under preference to the dry eruptions. In the head, you can switch
successfully with sumac and laurel-rose, this is confined to the eruptions that occur behind
the ear, the lycopodium complete the action of the graphite when the eruption is set at the back
of the head. Creeping Cradle of children are cured with the graphite, when surrounded by redness
with small infarction of the lymph nodes immediately. The mucosal favus, rebellious, foul, with
glandular suppuration of the same nature, also calls for the action of this drug. Dr. Ruoff [2]
means that in all cases is to use the lowest crushing, and that he alternates with periods sulfur, or
at shorter intervals, and often these dartros triumphs dose of inveterate. Efficiency is higher
in mercury, at the thuja, to the pulsatility and zinc in ecthyma (pustules), mercury and ivy
in eczema (vesicles); but is below the carbonate of lime and phosphorus in impetigo (pustules),
and causticum and to belladonna in lichen (papules).

The abrasions and inflammation of the folds of the neck and groin
correspond to lycopodium, and children are sprinkled these parts with
this substance is intertrigo cured with graphite, and when it is intense
and inflamed skin on the thighs, it is also necessary Staphysagria.

The abrasions of the hands and feet to heal admirably graphite weaker dose even when rhagades
deep, and the hand gets more creased smooth and supple. Lycopodium has also shown in these
cases, in which neither the silica, or gold, or carbonate, or lime sulfur are as safe action. The
cracking of the lips and anus require other medications such as Ignatius, sea salt phosphorus,
mezereum.

Graphite is the primary medication to remedy the abrasions or cracks in the breast. Arnica
relieves pain, but it is a palliative only be used one or two days. Graphite is best indicated
in the slag with burning pain and surrounded by an erythematous area.

In any other case, the club moss or sulfur may be preferable, or at least add, alternately. The
arrangement of the skin to ooze from the slightest cause, or with the slightest excoriation, requires
the graphite in the children and the nerve and delicate chamomile. Oil and cuttlefish are useful sometimes,
if the affected part and no swelling redness. Graphite, in short, is given in convalescence, for alopecia;
applied is very effective topically to the scalp to remove the small scales furfuraceous so
abundant in some people. The calcium carbonate, silica, and are then mezereum his best assistants.

= C = Neuralgia neuralgia .-- It remains indicate they belong to the action of graphite. Solo
has been used in some cases gastralgias cramping with salivation, mucus and development gas,
the atonic gastralgia with rheumatic and arthritic pains, cramps
and cold in extremities, also is the resource of graphite, but with
the condition that it is not necessary herpetic affection exists,
it suffices that the cachectic state similar to this medication the
cause of these neuralgias or there with them.

The same happens in tumors tophaceous of arthritis irregular, often attacked people cacoquímicas
skin erythema or suffering from abdominal diseases.

= Dose .=-- doses vary according to use graphite as alterative or as a modifier vitality, and
according to be used in persons endowed with little reaction force, or of any irritability, from
two or three decigrammes one of the three crushing, to a drop or some cells of the sixth, twelfth,
or Eighteenth attenuation, continuing to use achieve the desired effect. The ointment consists
of one gram of the first crushing for eight of a fatty, mostly cocoa
butter, is very useful in pityriasis leather scalp, in some conditions
rhagades and herpes.

Guaiacum (guaiac).

§ I. - History.

Strategy is guaiac resin, plant family Rutaceae, Juss .-- From decandria
monoginia, Linn .-- The guaiac should occupy a place in the medical
field, if attended to what his doctors have written the old and the
frequent use has been made to last the last century.

On the day, seems to be limited to some cases of gout.

Many authors have dealt with this medicine, among which include,
Ulric Hutten, Montagnana, Jacques Bethencourt, Teuthorn, Hahnemann,
etc. The first he employed in syphilis and Leprosy in the sixteenth
century, often confounded.

The cures for these diseases obtained in this way at that time that were so terrible and serious,
he could not to encourage the study of the effects and properties of guaiac. Unable to deny
Giacomini cases of cure obtained in India, an evil that could only be a smallpox or leprosy degenerate,
is to lessen the significance of these facts, claiming that these conditions are less serious
in this country, which is incorrect and stating that there is more guaiac indian be active
and used in the best conditions, which is very possible.

In Europe, we have used the guaiac in these conditions and in acute and chronic rheumatism, coryza
and catarrh also chronic, acute gout and chronic mucous diarrhea and other flows, in scrofula,
amenorrhea, hectic fever, amaurosis, deafness, tooth decay, and chronic eruptions such as dartros.

§
II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.

The comments attributed to former guaiac following physiological effects:
neuralgia, varices, contractures and shortening of the muscular and
tendon, subcutaneous swellings and joints, increased urination, profuse
sweating.

The symptoms observed by Hahnemann and other harmony with previous experiments and confirm the
practical data of the ancients regarded the guaiac as more effective and curative only in people
of a weak constitution and in which the disease is chronic or tends to be. Phenomena guaiac
diathesis fever rise up slowly, with exacerbation in the morning
and afternoon, with weakness, swelling with pale face, wasting.

But precisely these phenomena and the height to which they arrive,
they prove that the action is first excitants guaiac.

The same is confirmed by observations of Barthez which saw him produce headaches and bleeding pronounced,
and what show trials on healthy volunteers, as indicated by the following symptoms: fast, burning fever
preceded by yawning, need stretching, chills and rigors, this fever is followed by profuse
sweating on all in the head and in the morning, of brokenness and weakness of the limbs lazily and
horror to the movement, be useless and attempted to urinate, constipation and dry cough.

Behold the picture of the guaiac other physiological symptoms: joint pain; dislacerantes and
darting in the limbs, twitching of the parties concerned; aggravation of pain at the slightest
movement; stitches in his chest pressing pains in the groin, lancinating in the urethra, stiff neck
and a back side; constrictions between the shoulder blades in the stomach, chest, tingling in the
arms and forearms deep nighttime pain thighs, followed by paralytic tension and weakness after a
change in position, lancinating violent in the brain pulsations in the temples; dislacerantes
pain on one side of head, ears, tingling in the cheeks and teeth, pressing pain when compressed
the two jaws, burning pain in the throat.

Bland taste, poor appetite, belching and nausea, as if his throat was full of phlegm, distaste
for milk, rumbling, frequent and repeated emission of urine, leucorrhoea, abundant nasal and pharyngeal
mucus, purulent expectoration, equally abundant sweating, swelling of the eyelids, dilated pupils, weakness
of memory and forgetting of names; looseness numbness of the limbs, paralytic weakness.

Some symptoms such as staring, a lack of ideas, the abolition of the hearing, beats in the head
with a sensation of fullness and swelling of blood vessels, drowsiness after noon, the nightmare,
the rigidity of one side of the back, give some reason to have advised them that guaiac in accidents
strokes.

These accidents concern to the arthritic diathesis, and wasting to cachexia appears to be the
complement of the action guaiac, chronic effect, the result of prolonged action.

Burning itching on the skin that increases scratching, especially on the back, the grain nose and
eyebrow, can justify its use in certain dartros, if these symptoms
are considered to as the rudiment of an action on the skin: this is
presumably because the wrong guaiac and poorly studied experiments.

You may also be used in rheumatic diseases, blennorrhagic especially in rheumatism, arthritis with swelling
in and contractures in some periostitis in migraine skinny people descended from parents or gout,
some mucus or pus, as leukorrhea, chronic coryza, otitis, chronic bronchitis or the same consumption
mucosa.

= Dose .=-- The dye in amount of two to twenty drops in a potion,
or some of these or attenuations of the first blood every twenty-four
hours, are the doses used, the first in preference to the others.

HEPAR sulphuris (lime sulfur).

§ I. - History.

The combination of sulfur and lime in question, also called liver of sulfur limestone and lime
sulfur.

Has been less used than the sulfur of potash with which it great analogies, and their original
use is fairly recent. First he used the exterior in scabies, dartros and scrofulous tumors. Stoll
recommends in goiter.

The first internal use is due to Hahnemann that proposes to combat
the mercurial salivation [3].

As has been better known, its use has been ostensibly more cases,
and today is one of the drugs that combat the pulmonary tuberculosis.

Continuing our march, dispense with the appointments and take care of the physiological effects
of the drug and deduct the therapeutic indications, availing ourselves of the results obtained
in patients.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Lime sulfur is well known by the Germans lymphatic venous medication. Its effects on the blood system
are secondary, and its expression is subacute. Its effects diathesis simulating chronic scrofulous
constitution. It mainly affects the skin and mucous membranes, but
in a special way he used to.

Work on the vegetative life facilitating the uptake of poorly prepared
materials, determining a mucosal cachexia pus, and a slow decomposition
of the blood, and his fatigue is marked by mobility nervous, because
it rises to the excitement, even the illusion of the senses, such
as the smell, for example, exalts the nervous irritability spasms,
as if they were the last efforts of a life that tries to resist his
rule.

Thus, these phenomena nervous are the least important indications of this drug, ie, they are
very serious so that they can often be useful.

The lime sulfur chemically and therapeutically part of sulfur and calcium carbonate, and expresses effects
lymphatic system disorders and nutrition, and chronic irritation more varied. Lobethal indicates
the effect the importance of medicinal compounds esperimentacion have undergone. The hepar
sulphuris, says the homeopath, is the smoothest and effective substitute for pure sulfur, in
cases where a confirmed disease, especially in the field of breeding, organ damage, skin ailments
and lymph ...., you claim as a convenient, owing to the mixture of sulfur and lime. This mixture
is, such as sulfur, a convenient antiphlogistic action throughout flegmásica chronic irritation;
but is less Ereta this, and therefore has a smoother and often use
useful, mainly on the conditions for abuse of mercury.

The many acts of healing have amply justified the hopes that experiments physiological had made
to conceive of this medicine one and others have revealed lime sulfur pyogenic a virtue. Facilitates
the formation of pus and chairs so to this work, which often obviates the opening of the abscess,
as arnica accelerates inflammation and suppuration is opposed to and to the healing of a fresh wound.
Therapeutically speaking, the facts prove every day that is the best medication that can be used
suppuration in, in glandular abscess and pyogenic even diathesis and arnica is the best way
of healing and blood reabsorption.

The lime sulfur diathesis is characterized by destruction of the forces and symptoms as close to that of
the machine, but with the circumstances at that, losses moods are mainly in hepar flows, muco-purulent
and serous effusions are replaced by tissue injury with loss of substance. There are still between
sulfate quinine and lime sulfur somewhat analogous in its effects that make them suitable for
croup. Hepar neuralgia also have similarity to those of the machine, that affect people annihilated, and
cacoquímicas, and only weakened by numerous losses pus of good character. The pain, in short,
are dislacerantes and are aggravated by touch and those of the machine.

We are not outstretched but in these generalities, because we simply have established the field
of action of lime sulfur, which is that their elected on the skin and mucous membranes origin is
the alteration of hematosis owing to the elaboration of materials Blood and its transformation
into pus. The effects of this drug, from first to the last, have a chronic start retaining
a seal from irritability erethism blood vascular system, and the profound alterations of plasticity
that react nervous system of inorganic life. We'll keep in therapeutic applications groups
characteristic of this medicine, which we shall see in a new hepar agent, whose pretensions
to the healing of tuberculosis should not be overlooked.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = fevers. Inflammations .-- In the febrile phenomena lime sulfur observed aggravation
at night, the pain makes the chills are more uncomfortable, the heat causes anxiety. Those are
played outdoors, the heat is fleeting and partial, it can be fiery and general but of short duration.
The sweat, when it is not partial, night and morning, usually viscous or even smelling acid and
in some parts. The bitterness of the mouth, the ease of chills to reproduce the exterior air,
thirst, even shiver, the cold inside the the same sensation you feel in the evenings, the
vomiting of green matter during the fever with dry heat, the great
sensitivity to cold, bad humor, anguish afternoon headache at the
vertex of the head, ulcer pain above the eyes by afternoon or evening,
and the terebracion above the nose in the morning, the pangs in the
head, as if to burst, coupled with vertigo at the time of download,
these symptoms and similar to the eyes, ears, nose, larynx, breast
..... the joint pain, vagrants or erratic, the heaviness of the limbs,
easy to traspirar with the slightest movement, sufficiently indicate
the usefulness of lime sulfur in fevers catarrhal, with less irritation
of the mucous membranes of the eyes, ears, throat, that eyebright,
and with less tension that orgasm and arsenic, and nux vomica.

The inflammations which is indicated hepar are fluxional species or inflammation erysipelatous on
the cheek, eyelids, nose, lips and other parts, there is redness, vesicles sometimes, and always
a tissue swelling invading cell free redness, swelling is oedematous in the limit of the healthy
parts. These inflammations are a slow and indecisive, and generally infebriles. Graphite can
be his assistant, especially if erethism predominates.

Catarrhal ophthalmia, scrofulous, rash, with eyelid swelling, secretion mucus, pimples, scabs,
redness around the eye, or sort of escrescencias pustules the conjunctiva of the eye, burning
pain of ulceration, redness of the conjunctiva, are lime sulfur in its own best remedy. It is
less effective in blepharitis and inflammation Chronic free edge of the eyelids, or swelling of the
meibomian glands, when There is tearing, swelling of the eyelids, muco-purulent discharge,
crusting, burning, moving painful eyes. It is extraordinary efficiency in ophthalmia of the newborn,
swelling, a gush of pus, in particular whether there has been abuse, or simply use of mercury.
In short, his resolute action and healing is notable in small ulcers é chronic indolent corneal
pannus and manifested in consequence of those and prevent vision threatening.

Coryza belongs to lime sulfur in subacute and chronic periods, and also, the runny nose, scratching
in the throat, swelling of the nose, lots of mucus nose, and even saliva, fiebrecilla afternoon,
cold feeling inside, pressing pain in the ethmoid region and in the cheeks, nose blunt pain and
its surroundings, and sometimes escocientes pain in his face. Otitis and otorrhea lime sulfur are of the
same nature, but it should be noted that this drug is effective,
especially in people in the state of health easily and secrete earwax
is abundant.

= B = Laryngitis. Membranous angina. Croup. Pertussis .-- laryngitis, angina and simple membranous
claim the lime sulfur as a powerful remedy, the majority of their symptoms reproduced with this
medicine, these are: dry throat, dysphagia very pronounced, swelling of the tonsils, throat
throbbing with danger of suffocation, tingling in larynx excites cough even with bloody expectoration,
dry cough with pain escociente in the chest, hoarseness, constant pain in the larynx that is
aggravated by pressure, by word, by coughing and breathing, marasmus, hectic fever. Mercury
and bromine even are perhaps less important than the lime sulfur in the treatment of membranous
angina.

Croup and whooping cough are also represented in the following symptoms: cough deep anger caused
by breathing difficulty, choking and vomiting, cough similar to the of whooping-cough, dry coughing
with pain in his head as if to burst, and lighting dark face, coughing, screaming, dry coughing,
snoring, deep anguish and suffocation, usually ending in tears, anguished breath, wheezing, hoarseness,
accesses suffocation forced to move his head to one side, breathing short.

This medicine is also the most convenient after aconite, provided
that the cough magazine Some of these characters, with hoarseness
in the range of access, without waiting for the condition worse.

These two drugs can, in such cases, prevent croup. When not relieve symptoms, with a dose of
iodine or bromine, you can get the result. Lime sulfur is only indicated in the whooping cough,
in the decline of the disease, and when the sputum is abundant and mucous with hoarseness.

= C = Piogenia. Phthisis mucosa, mesenteric. Pleurisy .-- chronic laryngeal tuberculosis is not the
only that this drug is effective, it is also very useful in chronic catarrh and phthisis pulmonary
mucosa, when the cough, whether or not violent, is accompanied by abundant expectoration of mucus
and pus, bloody sputum, hoarseness, oppression, weakness bodies and
chest voice, to the point of preventing speak or read aloud, insomnia,
thirst, slow fever, night sweats and cloudy, yellowing of skin dryness
and itching.

These are the cases in which the iodide of iron and tin can share profitably treatment with lime
sulfur.

The mesenteric tuberculosis also falls within the sphere of action of this drug, the Just as heart
attacks the lymphatic glands scrofulous and inflammation. The belly is bulky, hard, tender,
with pain as from contusion, there are stitches in the region splenic
in the liver and the rest of the abdomen.

We present contractile cramps and pain, pain of ulceration, cramping, dry, hard stools, and diarrhea
or from escrementicias white matter of sour smell in children, dysenteric stools, tenesmus,
cachexia slow fever, dry skin and yellowish, emaciation extreme, greed, urine turbid or that
break easily, or night sweats acid viscous.

Pyogenic suppurative diseases or a tendency to suppuration, are the
ones that obviously Lime sulfur is generally useful.

It is also in this study the pathological which is exhaled plastic lymph vessels and leads to
pseudo-membranous exudations in mucous and serous surfaces. After his instructions in the
membranous angina croup, now indicates some inflammation of joint capsules and pleurisy, that
this drug may take place after the bryony, and other more suitable agents in the early stages
of phlogosis: that the lime sulfur was active curative in these cases, it must have already given
the device feverish movements fluxionarios it is necessary that there is only a point of irritation,
a sufficient local phlogosis exudation for this job. In these circumstances, the lime sulfur is indicated
these points that remain after pleuritic fever or purulent effusion
formation of an abscess, even when there is a subacute fever with
chills, referrals, exacerbations fever similar to that of suppuration,
but any sign of hydrops with hectic fever and tension, preferably
indicates arsenic.

= D = adenitis. Ulcers. Abscesses. Purulent diathesis .-- It emphasized the value of sulfur lime
in the treatment of heart attacks and inflammation of the lymphatic glands, especially neck, several
other drugs have similar properties, shall we say, for Therefore, in these cases, the drug
in question can not replace the sulfur and calcium carbonate, and barite and mercury are essential
in treatment this species, with or without the lime sulfur.


"Kind o' how we've figgered right along?" Seth asked.

"Yes."

The two men relapsed into silence for a while, and smoked on. At last Seth spoke with the air
of a man who has just finished reviewing matters of importance in his mind.

"We've taken in the well in fixin' that corral."

"Good. We've got no well here."

"No."

"I was over at Pine Ridge to-day."

"That's what your sister said."

"I went for two reasons. Jim Crow has smelt out preparations for Sun-dances. We can't locate
where they are going to be held, or when. I went over to consult Jackson, and also to see how
he's getting on over there. He's having the same trouble getting the Indians to look at any
work. Little Black Fox is about again. Also he sees a heap too much of that white familiar
of his, Nevil Steyne. By Jove, I wish we could fix something on that man and get the government
to deport him. He's got a great sway over the chief. What the devil is his object?" Jimmy Parker's
face flushed under his exasperation.

"I'd give a heap to git a cinch on him," Seth replied thoughtfully. "He's smart. His tracks
are covered every time. Howsum, if things git doin' this spring, I've a notion we'll run him
down mebbe--later."

The Agent was all interest.

"Have you discovered anything?"

"Wal--nothin' that counts your way. It's jest personal, 'tween him an' me."

The other laughed cheerfully.

"Couldn't be better," he exclaimed. "I'd sooner it depended on you than on the government."

Seth let the tribute pass.

"We must locate them Sun-dances," he said.

"Yes. We've got troops enough to stop them."

"Troops?--pshaw!"

Seth rose. Parker understood his last remark. The presence of troops had long since been discussed
between them. The visitor moved toward the door, and the Agent went to his desk. 

As you can guess, a movement of this kind could not be within the limits what was formerly
known as Lilliput. Blefuscu women sent a commission for air to ask of her sisters who were victorious
slavery to freedom of forty centuries. Half a dozen aircraft and a flying squad were sufficient for
the neighboring kingdom will be held by women, killing their king and leading dignitaries.

In
short: Just a week so that in all countries women triumphed, leaving
servility men who had done well to our sex for thousands of years.

That was what we agreed to call the True Revolution, so different in their results to the
revolutions made by men.

But the death of male tyranny was not enough.

Had to organize and govern new existence in the world, and this we did much better and faster
than when gathered men their useless League of Nations to end all wars.

As there were no explosive weapons, and which had escaped destruction were useless thanks to the
"black beams" was not playing hard to avoid extermination human. As there was no army of men, it
was impossible to resurrect the war.

I forgot to say that the sea was the same as in the cities. Planes Committee, with its fearsome
black light jets, removed all inserts artillery islands by men. Were flown just a few of those colossal
ships, crews others fled, leaving them stranded in ports. Some floated lost in the sea, for
sailors, at the sight of one of the airplanes feminine, the water poured boats, fleeing the
ship, which was to them a nearby volcano to erupt. The submarines also rushed to make the ports, throwing
all his people. Feared to the "black beams", able to find them at greater depths.

In a word, gentleman, over the army and navy men in all nations of our race. Many died trying
to resistance, and the survivors were terrified after a defeat so unexpected and complete.

The superiority of our sex was evident when the confiscation women, according with women from
other countries, ordered the opening of an Assembly to regulate victory. Never seen a political
meeting in the talk less and adopt agreements practical faster.

The men, who during his long tyranny always dominate speakers stopped believing a good word
man does it all and knows all, have fun cynicism of women in many cases, ensuring that we are talkative.

And
yet, our revolution was done without speeches.

Only after some years past oratory has been reborn in this country.

The first thing women was agreed to delete the nations with all its patriotic fetish provocative of war.
Liliput there was no or Blefuscu or any State to observe their old names and differences. All
federated into one body, which took the title of United States of Happiness. The capital of
this confederacy was truly peaceful Mildendo, having it match the liberation movement, but was
stripped of its name, dating of ancient emperors, so called hereinafter "Paradise City Women.

After
the influence of men, decreased social discontent and lost its strength
threatening the theories on the abolition of the property, the new
distribution of wealth and other utopias.

The woman is deeply conservative and loves the property and order. She has been that, in spite
of his role, kept the man on the reason for thousands of years and prevented him from doing
irreparable follies. Without it there would have been able to survive in society. The man is
so vain and pretentious, which runs just nonsense to remedy what maybe not fix it, try putting
it into practice, he considers him to be infallible, and feel capable of setting fire to the whole
world to change to succeed his pride of authorship.

When women rule, solved by sentimentality and the instinct that men
had failed to fix never using his reason.

Most of the social problems resolved simply by eliminating envy. But refrain from entering into
details and return to what they did the first organizers of the True Revolution.

This Assembly, which created a new world, he realized that his work
was to consolidate future generations must ignore the past.

Everything referred to the period thousands and thousands of years during which dominated the
men was deleted. Destroyed books, newspapers, monuments, all I could do to the male suspect the future
despotic authority exercised by their predecessors. Only libraries universities retain the works
of those times, but only allowed to read the teachers of unquestionable loyalty that is dedicated
to the study of history.

In addition, all had been considered heroes and VIPs during the domination
Men were sent to remote islands, and died obscurely, like Eulame.

Were held by women schools and universities, and only gave them an instruction according to government
orders. If you could talk to girls who attend our educational institutions, be convinced that they
have no reason to suspect how was the world before the revolution. Believe that females have
always governed and that men are a weaker sex and shy, needing to protect him. You speak our language,
the government had commissioned me to tell him the nation's history or I would have dared to reveal,
in spite of the sympathy with which he looked. Think about it I am communicating state secrets
and can be paid unwise life. We themselves, teachers, only we dare to speak given these events
using English for be certain that no curious can understand.

I confess that the Revolution caused many casualties and still today
gives maintenance reforms requires certain precautions that may seem
small humanitarian, but what benefits brought us!

... Fifty years ago that govern women, and has not been a single war no trace of reason capable
of provoking in the future. We deleted the two calamities aroused by the brutality of men,
war and alcohol. Our governments will happen causing fights da word only: without bloodshed
and without speed crashes. Never was so well-managed public wealth.

Good conditions for savings and had to learn modesty of women for leadership the home during
the time of slavery now employs in government.

United States of happiness are given as a house where the disorder is not known or waste. Everything
is going with a strict economy, and yet our country is not without comfort and of opulence. We
only accept women as leaders who know how to perform the same miracle who performed at certain times
of male despotism which gave wives to their husbands little money and yet maintained their
home with a look of abundance and joy.

No country, during the long centuries of male tyranny, could boast
as we give not in fifty years have had a single ruler or a single
employee who was a thief.

All directed at women: schools, factories, fields, ships, machine and flying terrestrial locomotion,
and life is sweeter, more peaceful than before. This shows the injustice with which the woman
was looking ominous in those days of tyranny mannish, when considered suitable only for managing
a small house and care for children. The man now under these secondary functions.

I recognize, gentleman, that our victory was not quite generous. When you have a enslavement of
thousands of years, bad memory and revenge are inevitable.

Today women have become accustomed to its dominant position, and the intimate love and life
at home make them look a protective affection to the men of her family. But in the early years after
the real revolution, the men went wrong. The authority had to intervene many times to advise
caution and tolerance to certain Amazons, who, remembering the bad treatment suffered in the
past, gave every night beating their husbands.

Spirits are still among us conservatives and traditionalists who keep
hatred the old implacable tyrant.

These are usually women intellectuals, who dedicated to mental work and feeling purely idealistic
ambitions have not had time to think about love and stay in laborious celibacy.

I have lived too well, gentleman, but do not think I have followed
their customs.

These masculinófobas are known on the street and elsewhere by the tenacity with which show their
hatred of men. Someday you will Golbasto, our poet laureate, the woman who sang it better the
triumph of the revolution.

It is the only person who admires Momar and respects our Father of the Masters.

The Executive Board gave him a rolling machine that is shaped like an eagle with a lira in the grip,
but she has kept this tribute of national gratitude, and prefers keep going to all parts, like
other old ladies of his time, in a light cart drawn by three men
who are at your service, and whom he frequently touches with the whip
.... What do you, gentleman?

Guess on his face for a while you want to ask me a question ....

Gillespie said with a nod that it was, and seeing that the teacher
Flimnap put your elbows on your table and forehead in his hands to
listen, it was decided to discontinue an interesting lesson.

- Talk
to you, dear Professor, that women are everything in this country
and monopolize functions and work, but I've seen since I got involved
athletic men in most operations.

Do we not men?

- What are - Flimnap answered - but a well organized society like
ours could not allow that women, far more intelligent than men, loaded
with heavy work and annoying, while the sex up living in the comfort
and softness.

Is tolerable not employed men living in the home detention as wives and daughters and show gently
in need of protection, but we found it necessary to use the strength of all athletic and abusive
men to handle dangerous machinery to carry heavy objects, in short, for functions that require
muscle do not need intelligence.

In addition, we reveal that all these strong men are descendants of the military and male characters
who monopolized power before the Revolution. They now live apart, forming a special breed,
and why not say it, are subject to slavery, and only death can free
them from it.

Do not do it for revenge, but out of necessity and convenience. I told our revolution (Similar
in this to all the revolutions of the men) had to rely on certain
anti-human resources, which benefit most.

The breed of losers playing vigorous at an alarming rate, as everything that belongs to an inferior
gender. Do not think that we instills fear. Our science has found a way to remove memory to
these men and ambition. The children are more stupid and more parents strongmen. After some few
generations, these muscle machines, without initiative and will look great.

In our family life has a wholesome fear of the existence of the underclass. The men obey without
question to the wife or mother, for fear of losing the sweets harem
life they carry in their homes.

Tremble that can send them to swell the number of men sleeping inside, the slaves that serve
only to provide forces.

- What about the army? - Said the giant -. Speak you, Professor, that there are no wars or can
any, of the end of the military caste men to lose the enjoyment of
government and since I arrived here I've seen everywhere these girls
to winged helmet and sword his belt, as well as to the others who
crew flying machines.

Flimnap Professor looked at one side to another, as if some indiscreet could understand, to Although
speaking in English. Then he said, lowering his voice a little:

- That he has seen, gentleman, is not an army.

You, you know, as a few of us great destructive power of explosives, how important can give to our
regiments, armed with arrows and spears, as in the reigns of the earliest emperors? ...

But we need to keep this army bit scary, because people, living in peace, want to know that there
is a police force capable of defending them. Must also be taken into account that youth sports need
to consume a portion of its excess of life, consider the military profession as the most fun and graceful
of games.

No army would not know what to do with all those girls of twenty, strong, courageous, healthy,
with a rich blood that burn your skin or swollen muscles. They would walk by loose there, disturbing
the peace of the Republic bother to shy men, inclined modesty and seclusion, and who knows if
would eventually kidnap! ... With the army, Loose these energies are channeled to military glory,
and although there is no such glory, his dream gives us peace of mind. Later, when you come
in years, girls Guard and winged helmet, as you say, are cautious and measured, marry and
form a family. But if you saw what they do in the meantime to their colonels and captains, experts
who have had children and know the requirements of life! ...

At best, the head of a legion note the discomfort of his soldiers. Showing melancholy and pale,
it looks like daydreaming, suck the air as if they bring perfumes and music. This military epidemic
is more prevalent in spring than in the rest of the year.

"Tomorrow, maneuvers," ordered the chief. And the next day take the field the troops to shoot
arrows and throw spears into the air, go very long hours, sleeping rough on the hard ground, passing
rivers to swim, eat poorly, and finally, all this beautiful youth becomes overwhelmed tired,
but healthy thought and cured for a few months of his restless and
mysterious disease.

We gentleman, maintain an army of moral demands: to not disturb the virtuous abstinence should
save the youth.

- But I - said the giant - I've seen men in that army suit bearded athletes women and large scimitars,
who were on horseback and were led by female officers.

- Right - replied the teacher - but these men do not really belong to the army; rather they
are slaves, as athletes who devote themselves to the tough work force.
Our army is an aristocratic manner of a female, and can not be responsible
for policing, that considers failures of glory.

We needed a police
force that it ensure security of the person, who pursued thieves and
murderers, and we have dedicated to this function man too ordinary. He had learned all that it was possible for
him to learn by hearsay of the things which most interested him; but, even so, he felt that
he had much time to make up, much to learn that could come only from his own observation.

Now, on this his first day out in the open, he found himself feeling very weak, a thin, pale
shadow of his former self. Curiously enough he had little inclination for anything. He simply
stood gazing upon the scene before him, drinking in deep draughts of the pure, bracing, spring
air. Though his thoughts should have been with those matters which concerned the welfare of
the homestead, they were thousands of miles away, somewhere in a London of his own imagination,
among people he had never seen, looking on at a life and pleasures of which he had no knowledge
of, and through it all he was struggling to understand how it was Rosebud had come to forget
them all so utterly, and so suddenly.

He tried to make allowances, to point out to himself the obligations of the girl's new life.
He excused her at every point; yet, when it was all done, when he had proved to himself the
utter impossibility of her keeping up a weekly correspondence, he was dissatisfied, disappointed.
There was something behind it all, some reason which he could not fathom.

In the midst of these reflections he was joined by Rube. The old man was smoking his after-breakfast
pipe.

"She's openin'," he said, indicating the brown patches of earth already showing through the
snow. Seth nodded.

They were standing just outside the great stockade which had been completed during Seth's long
illness. There were only the gates waiting to be hung upon their vast iron hinges.

After the old man's opening remark a long silence fell. Seth's thoughts ran on unchecked in
spite of the other's presence. Rube smoked and watched the lean figure beside him out of the
corners of his eyes. He was speculating, too, but his thought was of their own immediate surroundings.
Now that Seth was about again he felt that it would be good to talk with him. He knew there
was much to consider. Though perhaps he lacked something of the younger man's keen Indian knowledge
he lacked nothing in experience, and experience told him that the winter, after what had gone
before, had been, but for the one significant incident of Seth's wound, very, very quiet--too
quiet.

"Say, boy," the old man went on, some minutes later, "guess you ain't yarned a heap 'bout your
shootin' racket?"

Seth was suddenly brought back to his surroundings. His eyes thoughtfully settled on the distant
line of woodland that marked the river and the Reservation. He answered readily enough.

"That shootin' don't affect nothin'--nothin' but me," he said with meaning.

"I thought Little----"

Seth shook his head. He took Rube's meaning at once.

"That's to come, I guess," he said gravely.

Rube suddenly looked away down the trail in the direction of Beacon Crossing. His quick ears
had caught an unusual sound. It was a "Coo-ee," but so thin and faint that it came to him like
the cry of some small bird. Seth heard it, too, and he turned and gazed over the rotting sleigh
track which spring was fast rendering impassable. There was nothing in sight. Just the gray
expanse of melting snow, dismal, uninteresting even in the flooding sunlight.

Rube turned back to the gateway of the stockade. His pipe was finished and he had work to do.
Seth was evidently in no mood for talk.

"I'd git around and breathe good air fer awhiles," he said kindly, "y' ain't goin' to git strong
of a sudden, Seth."

"Guess I'll ride this afternoon. Hello!"

The cry reached them again, louder, still high-pitched and shrill, but nearer. Away down the
trail a figure in black furs was moving toward them.

Both men watched the object with the keenest interest. It was a mere speck on the gray horizon,
but it was plainly human, and evidently wishful to draw their attention.

"Some'un wantin' us?" said Rube in a puzzled tone.

"Seems." Seth was intent upon the figure.

Another "Coo-ee" rang out, and Rube responded with his deep guttural voice. And, in answer,
the bundle of furs raised two arms and waved them beckoningly.

Rube moved along the trail. Without knowing quite why, but roused to a certain curiosity, he
was going to meet the newcomer. Seth followed him.

Seth's gait was slower than the older man's, and he soon dropped behind. Suddenly he saw Rube
stop and turn, beckoning him on. When he came up the old man pointed down the road.

"It's a woman," he said, and there was a curious look in his eyes.

The muffled figure was more than a hundred and fifty yards away, but still laboriously stumbling
along the snow-bound trail toward them.

Before Seth could find a reply another "Coo-ee" reached them, followed quickly by some words
that were blurred by the distance. Seth started. The voice had a curiously familiar sound.
He glanced at Rube, and the old man's face wore a look of grinning incredulity.

"Sounds like----" Seth began to speak but broke off.

"Gee! Come on!" cried Rube, in a boisterous tone. "It's Rosebud!"

The two men hastened forward. Rube's announcement seemed incredible. How could it be Rosebud--and
on foot? The surface of the trail gave way under their feet at almost every step. But they
were undeterred. Slush or ice, deep snow or floundering in water holes, it made no difference.
It was a race for that muffled figure, and Rube was an easy winner. When Seth came up he found
the bundle of furs in the bear-like embrace of the older man. It was Rosebud!

Questions raced through Seth's brain as he looked on, panting with the exertion his enfeebled
frame had been put to. How? Why? What was the meaning of it all? But his questions remained
unspoken. Nor was he left in doubt long. Rosebud laughing, her wonderful eyes dancing with
an inexpressible delight, released herself and turned to Seth. Immediately her face fell as
she looked on the shadow of a man standing before her.

"Why, Seth," she cried, in a tone of great pity and alarm that deceived even Rube, "what's
the matter that you look so ill?" 

= Dose .=-- one to two drops of the tincture per day, is perhaps the best preparation of this drug. We
do not want, however, deactivate the cooking to the dose of 50 grams to 2 liters of water is
reduced to 1, but results have been obtained eSCelente lower dose, as 2 drops of the first
or third attenuation in irritative and neuralgic conditions similar to this drug.

SEPIA (GIBIER REGULAR, GIBIER INK).

§ I. - History.

The liquid black or sepia ink from a cephalopod mollusk that bears this name. The old, after Hippocrates,
have used the inner shell and the eggs of the cuttlefish its various species, as an astringent
and diuretic. Recognized in these substances property of exciting uterine contractions for the
expulsion of the placenta, and the restore the suppressed lochia.

Have been used since the time of Pliny, in diseases Chronicles of the bladder, uterus and skin,
and in some secretions of the genito-urinary mucosa.

Hahnemann is likely to have tried sepia ink on old data, and lets not be truly remarkable,
that his essays, apart from the more properties Este have discovered that this substance has
been confirmed by the esperiencia of the ancients, that gave very similar properties to all
parts of this animal. We admire this great therapeutic effects attributed to the sepia as excitants
of circulation, that required in soothe his concept with aconite, because after fifteen years we
have dedicated to study the physiological and clinical medicine,
never failing to confess discover in the sepia effect excitants directly
on the blood system, or phenomena deserving the name of fever phlogosis
or whole.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Can not be found in the table of physiological symptoms and clinical facts an action sepia real
in the blood system, not a sphere of action so as claimed Este many practitioners, especially
Germans. Undoubtedly has special relations with the systems venous and lymphatic truth is that
all signs relating to other organ systems rely on these relationships and rely on changes in
the systems concerned, and and its ramifications, and for their encouragement, or for its vitality.
The clinic has also been shown The number of nervous symptoms and especially nerve of sepia always
assume abdominal or uterine disease, and often separated from the beginning herpetic skin or mucous
membranes and alter the nervous system, resulting in reactive action
that your uterus to the skin, brain, mucous membranes, skin or of
the uterus and the nervous system, or lymphatic to everyone else.

Several authors have given to the sepia the denomination of chronic pulsatilla, in consideration
of its phenomena dependent uterine and uterus, while others compare it to the club moss, for
its phenomena blood, lymph and skin, when seeking their analogies in an affection herpes, or in
suffering from the same affection, and general character Dyscrasic. It has been said, well,
it was the opiate of the delicate women, in conditions dependent
painful an uncommon genre, or of a particular state of the uterus,
but not an organic lesion.

Elective action of this drug is supported by all its circumstances, by unique relationship of
the morbid state which tends to develop, with people offering weakened by excesses and moral
emotions usual, or naturally delicate, sensitive lymphatic and nervous temperament, these patients
have thin skin, white, pale and covered with red spots frequently they are very impressionable
to cold air, a cold easily, and often undergoes shocks and tremors in the limbs, accesses weakness
and faintness, looseness large, blood and pulse excitation across the body sweats easily and
are willing to mucus, swelling to cold, rheumatic and scrofulous, and darting to and pulsating
pain, which relieves exterior heat, cold worse, and those who join chills: in these people,
it develops all its power, and puberty or old age before their ability to make disappear the
venosidad and to the nervousness. Moral dispositions of this drug are very similar to those
of the throbbing, changing only from sadness to a concern tearful resignation, although sometimes
occur discouragement and the propensity to become irritated in the affections of the device genito-urinary
system. Esponse It is understood that the cuttlefish is particularly suited to the women's
diseases, while so it will be useful in men, especially in young people and delivered to onanism,
in which is very effective, with a major upset if the digestive tract, and there is sadness, depression,
taciturnity.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = febrile illness .-- This medicine is not for the fever itself, but Dyscrasic only to states,
herpes, venous, scrofulous, with or without local affection, and who develop blood rising excitement
to the congestion, swellings active gastric mucosal irritation ...., but that is transient and
never ends suppuration or crisis arises. It has been useful in some mucous and catarrhal fever
in some subacute cases, which extend beyond the longest boundary, then throbbing, and when sulfur
is contraindicated by the lack of regular and irritability erethism organic: The tongue is white,
there are no blisters or sore excoriation of the mouth, sensation of cold, frequent chills, aches
and discomforts that bring down, abdominal venous congestion tension and tympanitis or sensitivity
to heat, symptoms which, together with those of coating, seem to
require the use of a purgative, which, however, increases and aggravates
the suffering fever.

Sepia is useful in slow fever complicating certain catarrhal and neuralgic, in weak and lymph,
which the slightest cause sweat, but this is rather Ereta and depends on a sufficient nutrition
and continuous changes arising from the lack of harmony between the skin and mucous membranes. The sluggish
state of these surfaces is expresses by fluxions passing by chronic rubbing surface by flow
of sweat or mucus, extremity by a sensitivity to cold, heat inflaming living with blood by in
bed at night and frequent chills, and lack of heat through the day without vital energy; heat
also rarely general, focused principally on the head, redness and
swelling in the face sometimes, and cold in the lower extremities
and thighs.

All these data are applicable to intermittent fevers characteristic of sepia. Necessary be confessed,
however, that Germany has been greatly exaggerated its importance in these species fevers.
Only intermittent agrees that nutrition is weakened due to congestion Repeated abdominal organs
in the period of concentration, constant sweating due to the weakness and laxity of the skin, previous
treatments and old diseases venereal treated with high doses of mercury and iodine salts. Is
more often indicated in larval fever, neuralgic, with periodic migraine,
abdominal venous congestion and mucus, and even of diarrhea.

= B = inflammations, inflammations to subirritaciones .-- The sepia corresponding recognize a uterine
or abdominal venous disposition, a cachectic state, a herpes infection, or a scrofulous diathesis;
the affected organ is weakened by previous conditions, is feeling dryness, redness, warmth,
burning, sensation of excoriation, swelling. Despite the sensation of dryness, there is some
serous exudation, usually acre and develops skin irritation at the
next, at the tip of the nose that goes on, in swollen eyelids, in
the big lips and between her thighs.

These irritations are usually herpes or scrofulous character, and when they cease, let behind him a
looseness and thickening of the mucous membranes, resulting in coryza and leucorrhoea tenacious;
to tonsillitis and sore throat; to ophthalmia that play often and are complicated with menstrual
disorders and critical age. It is rare that the eyelids are not ruddy Styes and has not, that in
the mouth does not develop any swelling detachment epithelium in the form of plates, in the vulva,
irritations and abrasions of the same species; in the foreskin, vesicular eruptions, humidity,
or chronic irritation and flows, in the skin, in short, dry spots and rashes, furfuraceous, eczematous.
The sluggishness of the fiber, the fatigue general and the sepia lymphatism distinguish the
sulfur in these cases, because it presents more erethism in their action, although in many cases
of irritability that is not without orgasm and blood, mainly in the
recrudescence of the disease and mucus the Stomach.

= C = Irritations chronic asthenic flows .-- The cuttlefish is also
indicated, if there are nswers conditions and circumstances and in
the following conditions:

1. º The scrofulous with serum purulent
otorrhea;

2. º ophthalmia in chronic swelling and superficial injury,
such as pustules on conjunctiva

3. º ozena and flow in the chronic
fetid mucus in the nose;

4. º in chronic vomiting, spitting up of
mucus in viscous and heartburn with gastralgia;

5. º in some debilitating
diarrhea, even in children;

6. º in mucus from the anus with lancinating
or itching;

7. º The serosa and fetid leucorrhoea;

8. º in chronic
gonorrhea, waxy, greenish, or drop military

9.

No sweat in excess of the scrotum, feet, under the arm;

10.

In chronic dyspepsia and stomach and bowels, and constipation rebel
heartburn, emaciation and cold sensation in the stomach, alternating
with discomfort in head, chills sterna, usually hits nausea;

11.

In nighttime urination in bed during first sleep;

12.

In some cases organic lesion of the heart and liver with local pain,
dull, burning, rigors and jaundice in liver disease;

13.

In sterility;

14. In ascites, belly bulging after menopause, and mucous conditions and serous inflammations
from slow, subacute irritation, congestion of stagnation and venous
and lymphatic obstruction.

= D = cervical condition.

Disorders of menstruation .-- The action of the uterus sepia deserves
particular exposition.

Few drugs correspond better to the venous component congestive, especially if the scene is in the
womb. Antipyretic drugs such as aconite, arnica, nux vomica, bryony and others, play in the
suppression or in dysmenorrhea by erethism local general matrix,
or by fits of plasticity of the blood that comes with difficulty in
clots.

The sepia and other drugs depressing action and Dyscrasic act effectively by contrast, deletions
and dysmenorrhea with impoverished blood, and bleeding with uterine matrix asthenic conditions.

This
is like the sepia is adapted to deletions and dysmenorrhea with local erethism é general inertia
with asthenic nervous and anemic at times, and periods excesses metrorrhagia with fatigue or
in local and chlorosis. Passive congestion is characterized in this case the pelvis pressing pain,
even without lumbago, pains extraordinary increase if she stays up. This characteristic is also
itself in these cases, the pain the saffron and the machine. In uterine congestion at the time of
gestation with a tendency abortion, sepia for the flaccid state of
the tissue because there is a lot erethism, must toggle to the nux
vomica, or simply to use the latter.

To fully appreciate all the action of the sepia in menstrual disorders, and just fill your
information, it must attend to the sympathetic alterations part of the uterus, and the effect of congestion,
and by the susceptibility of the nervous system in a weak body or naturally sensitive or impressionable,
especially at the moment in which the uterus is the Mandans of all Fluxion pars. These disorders
consist friendly cramps, tightness, toothache, headache, migraine, general breakdown, lancinating
pains breasts. Sepia also corresponds in chlorosis, but rarely enough
alone for editing.

= E. = nervous and neuralgic affections .-- In discussing these conditions, stressing its venous
and asthenic character, character, setting out its relations with the effects of sepia. The migraine
is symptomatic of gastric or uterine disorders, the patients are weak, constipated, sad, usually
pale, dry, hysterical men have usually heartburn, digestion difficult and cold feeling timid to air
currents.

The hysteria is characterized by cold in the back and even everywhere crampy in the stomach,
limbs, and even more in the chest; dominance of sorrow.

The toothache is pulsating, aggravated from cold air, particularly annoying to the pregnant and
finally, like many other neuralgias's own sepia, and complicate joins
fluxions, movements to blood, palpitations, oppression and evil to
a thousand different displayed a preference for the night, after dinner,
and dissipate by exercise promotes violent sweat.

Sepia should also accesses oppression in nocturnal epileptic seizures, in delusions and agitation at
night with some kind of sleepwalking, in the third period of whooping-cough, and also in the second,
when there is a defect that contributes to herpetic perpetuate the disease or increase bronchial
irritation.

= F. = .-- Skin Conditions Skin Conditions in which the cuttlefish is effective are:

1. No. The fluxion erysipelatous, especially of the face, that recur in menstrual periods;

2.
º The erythema intertrigo and other irritations of the folds of the
limbs, excoriation the nipple and foreskin, and the disposition to
ooze that offer even the most slight damage skin;

3.

No acne and certain warty lesions and tuberculosis of the skin, pitiriásicas
plates, itching and tingling;

4. º varicose ulcers of the extremities,
with oozing.

5. º furfuraceous eruptions, vesicular, lichenoid, herpes or circular ring, the pruritic the outer
ear and the side and bottom of the face.

But it has been exaggerated much the effectiveness of Sepia in all these skin conditions, and
must satisfy the physician that only the best, leaving to other medications
the merit of the cure.

We excepting the annular herpes heals very well with this drug.

It is obvious, all cases, insisting on its use, if you want to cure diseases or modify advantageously
skin.

We ended up here because we have gone through the main indications for Sepia. If for some have
exaggerated the importance of an inert substance that passes by, and for other we have reduced
and limited its application, I understand all that art is based on observation, and that experience
is science, so we appeal to his good faith, and we encourage you
to continue watching and experiments.

= Dose .=-- The cuttlefish is a drug administered on the first three or attenuation crushing,
can act advantageously as alterative in conditions rebels in this concept, it can be used at
the dose of 1 to 2 decigrammes several times a day.

But it is often more effective in irritative conditions, and injuries of the sensitivity and
contractility, resorting to more high attenuation of the sixth to the thirtieth, at a dose of 2 or
3 drops or 5 to 6 cells in water for twenty-four hours.

Silicea (silica).

§ I. - History.

The silica obtained by procedures that we must address here is an earthy substance, an oxide base
unknown even as it is called silicium. The silica form, its combination with different bases, different
salts scattered in nature and the land. Recommend with confidence the study of silica to the authors
who claim to know the mineral waters regardless of silica and silicates that some contain [21].
They are classified with names more or less acceptable, iodized water, ferruginous, alkaline
..... but not yet created the kind of silica, although some properties due to silica. This
alone is enough to prove the serious mistakes of the current classifications of waters if no
other more serious, if there had been almost completely neglected the study of physiological
symptoms each produces medicinal mineral spring in particular. We wanted to give this work
a comprehensive study of the healing waters of Bondonneau, located in the district of Montelimar,
but refer readers who want to know, to the pathogenesis silicate water whose work we have published
[22].

When I first published cases of cure obtained by the silica, not surprising thoughtless unbelievers
have, but today, after half a century and countless facts activity is essential to recognize
a real, often very extensive, in silica and other renowned for inert substances and that they
are indeed a raw, natural, but which, however, when the divide and sufficiently attenuated,
acquire properties incontestable and its reduction to the molecular state, and for freedom takes its medicinal
action and the force of cohesion prevented its manifestation.

Perfectly divided these molecules transported to the smallest vessels of the economy, can enter the
stream of circulation and electric currents whose existence in the body is fully tested. The use
of the stack and reasoned application of the electricity to the treatment of diseases someday
find us with his progress certain mysteries relating to the action of drugs; explain us why,
in given cases, drugs act instantly sharply divided from one organ to another not is adjacent,
for in some diseases of the skin secretions are alkaline and the mucosal acid ..... and science
may make some laws to test the dosage, from the miasma doses, like the miasma of an epidemic
affection, to the almost equal given medication to combat it, or to the dose materials that are intended
to reconstitute the organic elements and act in a manner and reconstitutive alterative.

Not without precedents to this effect with respect to silica: many
mineral waters owe their virtues to the substance, the grinders and
stonecutters often have special conditions caused by silica, and atoms,
scattered by the air of certain workshops, cause diseases and disease
symptoms occur.

We judged that our readers are familiar medical literature and, therefore, know the work that
various authors have been published regarding this issue, so we simply to take note and take
advantage of this study.

In fact she still believed it was of that very danger which Nevil had wanted to warn Rosebud.

Now, when the girl suddenly burst in upon her, Wanaha was overjoyed, for she thought she had
surely left the prairie world forever. They spent the best part of the morning together. Then
Nevil came in for his dinner. When he beheld the girl, fair and deliciously fresh in her old
prairie habit, sitting on the bed in the hut, a wave of devilish joy swept over him. He already
knew that she had returned to the farm--how, it would have been impossible to say--but that
she should still come to his shack seemed incredible.

Evidently Seth had held his tongue. Though he wondered a little uneasily at the reason, he
was quick to see his advantage and the possibilities opening before him. He had passed from
the stage when he was content to avail himself of chance opportunities. Now he would seek them--he
would make opportunities.

"And so you have come back to us again," he said, after greeting the girl, while Wanaha smiled
with her deep black eyes upon them from the table beyond the stove.

"Couldn't stay away," the girl responded lightly. "The prairie's in my bones."

Rosebud had never liked Nevil. To her there was something fish-like in those pale eyes and
overshot jaw, but just now everybody connected with the old life was welcome. They chatted
for a while, and presently, as Wanaha began to put the food on the table, the girl rose to depart.

"It's time I was getting home," she said reluctantly. "I'm not sure that they know where I
am, so I mustn't stay away too long--after the scrape I got into months ago. I should like
to go across to the Reservation, but I've already promised not to go there alone. Seth warned
me against it, and after what has passed I know he's right. But I would like to see Miss Parker,
and dear old Mr. Hargreaves. However, I must wait."

Nevil crossed over to the table. He looked serious, but his blue eyes shone.

"Seth's quite right. You mustn't go alone. Little Black Fox is about again, you know. And--and
the people are very restless just now."

"That's what he said. And I nearly frightened auntie to death telling her she'd get scalped,
and nonsense like that."

Nevil laughed in response.

"If you'd like to go----" he began doubtfully.

"It doesn't matter."

"I only meant I've got to go across directly after dinner. I could accompany you. No one will
interfere with you while I am there."

Nevil turned to his food with apparent indifference. Wanaha stood patiently by. Rosebud was
tempted. She wanted to see the Reservation again with that strange longing which all people
of impulse have for revisiting the scenes of old associations. Let's talk about his person, as to why I came.

Looked at one side to another, although no one was near the giant, and said feebly:

- Gentleman, great dangers threatening it and come to ads, but I do not know, unfortunately,
how can I defend them.

His friend Professor of Physics had been that morning to the most remote and deep his laboratory
to trust a big secret. The Father of the Masters had to call to know if he always lists the
machine he used to give injections soporific Man-Mountain the night arrived in the country. And
as a physicist he told her yes, He then asked if it was possible
to build in a few hours - in accordance with section Chemistry - the
amount of poison required to give a shot at the giant, leaving scandalous
died without signs of intoxication.

The teacher had answered that he could not take care of this service without an express order
government, and the boss had promised for later, leaving the matter in that state.

- The promise of a government order is false, gentleman - added Flimnap -. No sir Executive Council
would dare sign it.

I, on the desire to defend you, I'm now mixed in matters of politics and I am honored with the
friendship of Gurdilo eloquent.

The government knows that the Tribune is interested in the man-mountain, and as feared avenging
his word, they will ensure right to authorize such a crime.

Despite his confidence in the fear of the rulers, he doubted that
Momar abandon his evil purposes.

- You want death, gentleman, and
if you can not organize what poison injection, seek other means.

These plans should help the vain Golbasto. I do not believe that such Golbasto is a great poet,
or even medium. The other night I wanted to reread his poems, and
I found negligible.

Oh, I can not remain at his side, gentleman, to follow the same fate!

...

The account of his impotence almost made him mourn. Influenced by his new friendship with Gurdilo
could only see in this character's remedy their concerns.

- If our government to occupy the great orator! ...

Here are pessimistic.

- The current government is stronger than ever.

Who can knock it down? There will certainly be Ra-Ra and the insane that follow. Women who lead
us in this moment are our enemies, but we must recognize that any government ever considered as
solid. To think, my learned friend says Gurdilo, which project to
hold a major exhibition, like years ago, which the gallery is a reminder
that you lived.

Perhaps with reason of this universal feast obtain his pardon, and you can attend all our parties.

But
the teacher suddenly left this optimistic dream.

He saw with his imagination Giant loved lying on the beach, lifeless as a corpse, green and
decomposed meats by poison and hovering over his face, spiral funeral, thousands of crows.

-
Beware, gentleman - he said - anxiety, beware of all, think they
can throw poison in their food.

Do not eat without having first been tested for food that rabble around him.

The giant laughter sound welcomed the latest recommendation.

Was unnecessary. He looked toward the fire heating the pot, around which were grouped accompanying
take advantage of their distraction.

- Above all, gentleman, be careful while you sleep. They can also kill in his sleep.

The giant laughter held again with the simplicity of this advice. How was I to guard himself in
his sleep?

- True, it's true - the anguished professor groaned -. Mighty Gods! And I can not be I next to
you to defend him in his sleep! What to do ...

It was asked several times, finally convinced that the first thing I should do leave, for fear
made him insufferable his time there. Feared being caught in his return to the capital if he
stopped to shut the night.

- I must be prudent gentleman, the government may be watching me. Note: you friend and friend of
Gurdilo! ... There are more than necessary to lock me in prison. But again; I bring news. Count
on my friend Professor of Physics will do nothing against you even if I send the government. But
alas! his enemies will not cease so .... Lower the hand, gentleman, put me on the floor. I need
to go .... Expect that I think about you at all hours and worry about
their fate.

Gillespie left the teacher in the sand, not to prolong the torment
of his concern.

Then he saw him running, swinging his bulky form and retain their veils, the wind sea ​​seemed to
snatch.

Several days of work, tired and hungry, but would receive the giant
further visits.

One evening, sitting in the sand, he saw a man leaping nimbly on one knee, then running along the thigh.
This was not wearing a skirt or womanly touch. He was almost naked, like men condemned to work
in a fabric wound to the kidneys for every garment and reliefs showing muscular body harmoniously
formed.

Before you recognize with your eyes, felt the giant awoke in fraternal
instinct inside to tell who he was.

- Oh, Ra-Ra! - Said feebly -.

I wanted to see you!

Guessing the purpose of his visitor, put it on the palm of his right hand, elevate then to his
face.

Ra-Ra was laid on the plateau of flesh and bone, and supporting his face in both hands, spoke
the Gentleman-Mountain:

- Popito will notify you a few days ago that some of these men around
him planned to kill him.

Until yesterday I had only vague news about it, now I can give a specific warning. I think is
tomorrow when the coup attempt against you, gentleman.

As to the instigators crime, I have formed my belief and no one will abandon it. Are Momar
and Golbasto those who wish to exterminate them, and they have not been able to get the government
to further their desires, avail themselves of this mob that surrounds you.

Ra-Ra kept talking, and some of his revelations came to corroborate
that he had Indeed the teacher.

- At first, these two characters
projected to kill you by means of an injection poisonous.

I do not know how they intended to do, but I have no intention no doubt. Wanted you appear dead one morning,
here on the beach, and people believe in a death ordinary.

But as they have not been able to make this plan hypocritical revenge, now appeal murder. Now you
know, gentleman, tonight and the next you sleep. I think the I try to hit tomorrow, but I advise
you, however, will save tonight, because might well have advanced the date of his crime.

Ra-Ra took the head off the giant's hand with his eyes looking down groups of suspicious people.

-
Those who surround him, gentleman, are people of poor character, but I think that all they will
intervene in the crime. According to my information, the only ones who have taken some money to
run and want to win the rest of the amount are those mustaches of
Blefuscu, so proud to show its strength.

Not lose sight of, because in them is danger.

Gillespie refused to understand how many pygmies could kill in his sleep not having of an injection
machine such as that he had spoken Flimnap.

- My friends - said Ra-Ra - have guessed, thanks to some words of
these men, how they intend to kill him in his sleep.

They will climb cautiously to the top of his chest, they have noted that you sleep on your
back, stick your ear to the curve of her trunk, to guided by heart
palpitations, and when they feel under their feet these beats, five
or six of them wield enormous steel bar terribly sharp, nailing all
at once into his flesh, until you pierce the heart and jump the gun
around pipes blood.

Golbasto Momar and should have given them the bar, providing, in addition, lessons to strike the
blow in the right place.

Even the two talked a long time.

The giant eventually forget their own affairs to Ra-Ra tell him his revolutionary plans and
hopes in the next triumph.

Since the young man could not fix the date of the insurrection against
the Republic of women.

All preparations were completed and transmitted orders to the different cities. Only needed to initiate
movement in a distant state, the most favorable to use that discovery to be conquering the famous
black rays.

This was going to happen from one moment to another, it might be the next day was perhaps and ignored
and in the capital.

- You have to you a few days of slavery, gentleman - said the young - and therefore would be unfortunate
if you kill those evil taking advantage of the last moments of tyranny female .... Do not fear
the consequences, punished harshly to the murderers at the time that the coup attempt. I wish
they were among the instigators! ...

Ra-Ra could not extend much for this interview. He feared that those who accompanied the giant
been fixed on arrival. Also thought I should take precautions to avoid catch him during his
return. A detachment of soldiers were camped on the beach near the port, to prevent onlookers
approached the giant.

As seen near the moment of victory, was more cautious than before,
and should avoid in his old audacity.

If discovered and arrested him last time, could be frustrated the
rise of the men in the city, leaving unanswered the uprisings of other
cities.

- Are you going to do great things - went on to say - Who
knows if it will be this evening when us women's revolt against tyranny
and come to deliver!

... And if not tonight, it will shortly.

It was Ra-Ra, and the giant, after eating, he lay in the sand, as
every night.

He would not sleep, staying in a feigned calmness, his eyes closed and watching the comings
and goings of some pygmies who had gone to bed yet.

At last the silence dream was spreading on the beach, and Gillespie, convinced that no attempt
night nothing against him, he finally delivered the rest.

The next day, when I had stones at the end of the pier, he saw a man in a small boat, pretending to
fish and always stood near his step, without panic from the swirling waters that opened in
the legs by cutting huge loud. Fisher's insistence eventually attract the attention of Gillespie.
Miró vertically pygmy's little boat, who stood beside one of his
calves, and acknowledged to Ra-Ra.

This, standing with both hands around his mouth forming horn, merely to shout:

- Going to be tonight, I know for sure .... And now continue its work. Do not talk.

Indeed, the giant's voice, sounding like thunder from above, had called the attention of all his
guards and even the crews of warships evolved watching him in the open sea.

Continued their trip with a giant rock in each hand, and the fisherman, catching their oars,
walked to the harbor.

Scarcely had he closed the evening, Gillespie was realizing, for certain preparations, that notice of
Ra-Ra was true. He saw how athletes and grumpy-looking mustachioed took to the back their bags,
saying goodbye to his teammates.

The latter is sensed only by their gestures, but it really was.

The group of bullies turned to Blefuscu announcing his departure in the first flying machine
to come out at dawn for the country. Those who remaining could not hide their satisfaction
at being free of thugs who abused both them.

Gillespie considered this sudden trip, prepared to show, as a certainty
that the coup against him would be that night.

He lay on the beach, as usual, standing at a short distance from the fire, which began to diminish
its flames. Little by little they were withdrawing their sleeping
companions behind the dunes or the shelter of Canar.

It took long hours of silence. Darkness was cut from time to time by the rays of color that
came from flying machines. But this night these illuminations were less numerous, as if someone
had influenced so that their guards will watch less.

During the long periods of darkness, palpitations of the fire filled
the night of sudden flashes of fire, followed long and deep darkness.

Giant remained in voluntary immobility, with narrowed eyes and throwing
a breath noisy.

Suddenly thought he heard the slightest whisper-like insects crawling around on the sand.

- They're here - said mentally.

The shirt that covered his chest was stirred with a slight tug.

He was one of the assailants, the most agile of all, he had grabbed
the tissue, climbing for him to get to the top of his chest.

From there he threw a rope down the waiting, and one after another up five men, with great caution,
avoiding a touch too strong sliding on the giant chest curve.

The man-mountain was breathing loudly, his eyes could see only half open what was happening around
him, albeit vaguely. Distinguished them moving on dark sand from the beach some animals are more
obscure. No doubt they were fellow murderers, who stayed down for a signal in case of danger.

The six men who were on his chest pulled the rope with a regular effort
prudent to avoid wakefulness.

He felt that what went up was not a living being, but something long and metallic rigidity.

-
The rod that want to nail in the heart - thought the giant.

Not wrong. Through his closed eyelids he saw how the group of men was unleashing deadly bar, putting
it in a horizontal position.

Its size was double that height them.

Below a low whistle sounded, and returned to take the rope. The man who rose far lacked agility,
his feet sinking heavily between the ribs of the giant, as if afraid fall.

Gillespie could not see well, but suspected it was a woman. This woman, lying on his chest,
he was dragged to his ear glued to the skin, serving as guide to the noisy pumping blood through the
huge heart.

At last the female director stood up, pointing a finger at his feet, as if to say: "Here."
Immediately came the six bandits with their bar. While some maintained
it vertically others are rubbing their hands and spit on them, preparing
for the great effort.

When all was ready, she raised an arm to signal,
and the six rose while the great iron sharp point. Just waiting for
the voice of his boss to quit fall, but before this happens, a catastrophe
the emptied, as if they had unleashed about them all cruel and blind
forces of Nature, as if the mountains that closed the horizon had
fallen on their heads, forming a cascade of earth and stones, as if
the sea had left his bed lifting a single wave to sweep.

The giant
had moved an arm to put the level of his neck and then made him a
rough movement along the chest, which was emptied and he could roll
find.

The six men, with their bar, as well as the mysterious woman
who ran, darted through the air.

And this was not the worst thing
for them, for the man-mountain was lifted then a jump and started
kicking on the floor, chasing the black figures, who fled terrified
throwing screaming in all directions. Each kick given by the giant
clouds lifted sand, and they always seemed to float a pygmy, arms
and legs open as well as frogs, sometimes with head up, sometimes
with the head down.

Wrath of the Colossus did not find a few moments
to chase enemies. All had fled. The immediate reeds shook shaken by
the fearful race of little men. Gillespie was going to lie again in
the sand, convinced that nobody would dare to attack and, when he
felt something stirring beneath one of his feet.

It was something
that twisted throwing soft squeals drowned, trapped by the sand and
arch bridge were his shoes between the ground and the heel. She is in such a position
that no poor man can ask her to marry him without becoming a fortune-hunter. Why, out of all
the people she has met since she has been with me, who do you think she encourages? Quite the
worst man I know. Lord Vinceps. He's a peer, I know; but he's poor, and up to his neck in debts.
She is a great trial."

She smiled fondly at the girl whose shortcomings were causing her so much anxiety. But there
was no answering smile to meet hers. Rosebud's face was serious for once, and her beautiful
eyes quite cold. Mrs. Rickards had addressed herself to Ma, but the girl knew well enough,
and resented the fact, that her words were meant for another. Rube and Seth still remained
silent. But the impeachment was not allowed to pass unchallenged. Rosebud was up in arms at once.

"About Lord Vinceps, auntie; you know that is all nonsense. I don't care if I never see him
again. I understood him within five minutes of our meeting. And that understanding would never
permit me to think twice about him. He is a cheerful companion; but--no, auntie, count him
out. As for the others--no, thanks. The man I marry will have to be a man, some one who, when
I do wrong, can figuratively take me across his knee. The man I marry must be my master, auntie.
Don't be shocked. I mean it. And I haven't met such a man under your roof. You see all my ideas
are savage, barbarous."

The girl paused. Ma's smile had broadened. Rosebud had not changed. Rube listened in open-mouthed
astonishment. He was out of his depth, but enjoying himself. Seth alone gave no sign of approval
or otherwise.

"Now, look here, auntie," Rosebud had gathered herself together for a final blow. One little
hand was clenched, and it rested on the edge of the table ready to emphasize her words. "I
do regard my position seriously. Subcarbonate of potash is a most worthy drug to be used in this fatal
disease have taught workshops considered essential in the beginning of the pulmonary tuberculizacion.
It is also very suitable in conditions from asthma, particularly in the hydrothorax.

In general water-soaked conditions, the pilot should focus attention on subcarbonate potash, especially
when the functions of the skin seem abolished, that this surface dry, sometimes with tenderness,
and always with a certain street, thickening and hardening of the epidermis. This drug is more
effective in people hidrohemia venous or scrofulous, and this effectiveness is most noticeable in
anasarca, in the ascites hydrothorax, in edemas of the extremities and even in heartwater:
these cases are that this drug has the serous infiltration of the upper eyelid as a symptom
characteristic.

Rheumatic or arthritic pains typical of this medicine is never a lack of swelling. This is sometimes
a simple edema below the painful joint, pain are more alive in the second part of the night and
during the movement, are accompanied by tenderness of the affected part and followed by chills
and weakness. Cachexia hidrohémica is inseparable, the sick are very impressionable to the cold, and
are willing to move congestive irregular or Scythian blood.

These movements characterize the slow fever that occurred for the chronic state by this drug,
the muscle weakness is large, the general innervation is weakened There are weaknesses, and the
blood does not stimulate the body sufficiently. In these circumstances more or less pronounced, are
the hits are developed epileptic spasms the hemicráneas, neuralgia, which have analogy or similarity
to the sub-carbonate of potash. The endless convalescence which is effective this drug are seen
in this nervous fatigue and the impoverishment of the blood, are also the losses from humoral continuous.
Not strange, then, in view of the esponse, this drug may agree: 1. º in certain paralytic conditions
developed slowly, but under perhaps also to the sea salt to the barium, sulfur and arsenic, 2.
º in amaurosis emerging 3. º in disecea 4. º in infarction and liabilities scrofulous glands and
the glands; 5. º in rebel urinary incontinence, and diabetic albuminurie some affection.

The usefulness of potash subcarbonate skin diseases is indisputable,
and admire the truth is that modern writers have been busy so little
about him, being so remarkable the following symptoms that determined
in healthy man impervious to dry skin as sweat sensation and ulceration
of skin burning, itching, burning, itching, yellow spots red or itchy
or burning and oozing serum after scratching, miliary eruption and
vesicular blue frostbite, bleeding ulcers, furfuraceous spots, especially
on the forehead, behind the ears cold, pimples, freckles, warts on
the face, rough hands and slag, corrosive vesicles in the fingers,
red swelling in fingers the feet and hands, nose, like chilblains,
nails in the feet, sweating in the armpit sweating in the feet foul.

The clinic has been recognized by very effective: 1. º in Copperas granular burning, almost
similar to that required by arsenic, 2. º in blue with violent itching chilblains before causticum
or after 3. No hives or rashes in certain spots in the accompanying fluxion to catamenial,
general itching, 4. º in acne, preferably arsenic, carbonate of lime and nux vomica to 5. º
impetigo, although in this case it is preferable phosphorus, and even more carbonate of lime, 6.
º in eczema, although in this form vesicular Herpes is most appropriate mercury 7. º in lichen,
a papular, which are auxiliary the causticum and several other drugs.

= Dose preparations .=-- Triturations are more convenient than the salt solutions more or less strong,
given some grain of the first, several times a day and one or two grams of the second and third
in small amounts. There are circumstances in which the lower dose is the most convenient, it
also uses a few drops or blood About the sixth and twelfth attenuation, when the condition
being treated, is similar only to the effects of irritation and congestive of this medicine.

Nitric KALI (AZOATO OF POTASH SALT .-- NITRO).

§ I. - History.

Nitro salt or potash azoato is well known from the remotest times. Posted in the class of cardiac-vascular
hipostenizantes by Giacomini, and confused by more with several drugs whose effects differ so much,
just being consistent on one point vague or indefinite, ie, on a remote analogy with any part
of the circulatory system.

Monsieur Trousseau salt is in everything unlike nitro professor of
Padua, and makes him a excitants, making the Experience "Jory one
of the physiological effects of this substance, increased urinary
secretion.

Hahnemann and many doctors after he undergoes in the belief have
to find in this drug as an agent of healing more powerful, since antiquity
was recognized that science effects, until his time nothing was added.

We believe, however, that the experiments have not responded fully to the expectations that
had been conceived, or rather, has not been found a sphere of action so as he had tried Este.

§
II .-- physiological and therapeutic effects.

A moderate dose and also in the first moment of action of large doses, but not toxic the potash
azoato gently stimulates the digestive functions, developed lancinating pain and excites the
heart and circulation. These phenomena are essentially passengers and do well asthenic soon
rise to fixed and opposite effects, so to speak. Moreover, since first moment of their action
and this excitement, we see as a character weakness due to the predominant influence of drug
action in venous blood in the system capillary and nerve ganglion, hence it is the place crowded
and under the influence of phenomena are, he discovers a collection of sedation, the blood
circulation and the system altered nerve relationship, or simply
are affected, and are not drawn to participate of synergies whose
starting point is the ganglionic nervous system, and agents live in
the capillary system on venous blood and organs of nourishing life.

The symptoms of this initial period is most manifest in the afternoon and evening that day, the touch,
movement and above all the excitement and chills, soothe pain, heat relieves all ailments, and
these circumstances, which expresses fatigue belong to the symptoms of nitro salt throughout
the duration and extent of its action.

There is also cool with thirst; the evening chills and night heat are without it, daily fever,
headaches, unbearable to get off, congestive redness in the face with aggravation of headaches,
violent inflammation of the stomach, urination, excitement of the genito-urinary symptoms of
inflammation in hemoptysis, chest, violent heart palpitations, especially in bed, bleeding of an
acre or black blood.

Nothing in these symptoms is an element of true inflammation, or the burning of the eyes and
nose, or by some inflammatory symptoms of the nose and ear, or the burning thirst, lancinating pains,
cramps, bloody vomituriciones that accompany the inflammation of the stomach, or the kind of dysentery
caused by salt nitro, or symptoms of bronchitis and pneumonia.

Yet all this justifies the use of this medicine:

1. No febrile Certain movements after noon or midnight, when no preceding chills without sweating
long after. These accidents correspond fairly febrile accuracy to those that come after great fatigue
or a forced march with stunning in the head, difficulty urinating, pain in the legs, State
ESRD.

2. No In certain neuralgias of members and discomfort in the head that recognize the same causes.

3.
º In the state of spasmodic chill that precedes some bleeding, hemoptysis
between others, with bursts of heat to the head, redness of the cheeks,
dizziness, dimming of sight.

4. º In acute bronchitis, coryza and people lymphatic, venous, weak, with burning burning sensation
in the nose, irritation in both inflammatory redness tip of the nose, filling it with hoarseness,
tensive pains in the larynx, cough violent head-dizzying ailments,
cough, excited by the air breathing cool, coughing chest pains alive
until it has the expectoration.

5. No irritation in the chest with transient congestion in tuberculous persons or cacoquímicas,
with shortness of breath that were forced to lie by placing your head up, pain contractive chest
that depart from the back, lancinating pain when breathing or coughing,
with anguish, sting and dry cough with expectoration of pure blood.

6. º In some stomach irritation by passive congestion, pressure, corrosion, pain stabbing pain,
thirst, cramps, burning burning sensation followed by cold, people always unhealthy life without
resistance.

7. No. And in all those patients in flegmásicos phenomena that occur with cramping, tympanitis,
lancinating pains, bloody stools, tenesmus, in the course of diarrhea colliquative even chronic.

We have already seen expressing his elective action of the salt of nitro in the nervous system
lymph nodes and related organs more or less directly with him, and with systems venous and
capillary, now let us see how to complete this action to be elective
chronic in the organs particularly encouraged by the nerves of organic
life, ie in viscera and nutrition system.

The stomach and lungs that we have already spoken, are the organs
most affected in their tone singularly diminished.

The heart is the point where they leave the pains which extend back, the pulse is feverish
and more nervous than blood, there beats tumultuous, especially at night and in bed, and announce
congestion, caused by a plethora passive recumbency, accompanied by anxiety, constriction and oppression.
These circumstances and status of anemia or cachexia of the patients are a valuable indication
for using this medicine venous plethora in the heart, the lung and
abdominal viscera.

The symptoms that relate to the physiological and organic denote cachexia, which blood seems deprived
of its vital and life-giving qualities, and therefore private the influence on the composition
of the blood nerve ganglion as seen by the following symptoms: pale and sickly, great leeway in
the morning, continued weakness, the more lax than exercising while seated muscle forces, comatose
or restless sleep, nightmares, bleeding from a black blood does not
clot, weakness of sight and hearing, loss of appetite, nausea, gas.

There is despair, anxiety and fear of death, drawing pains in the limbs with paralytic weakness,
sweating morning especially in the chest, sweating colliquative, subcutaneous nodules, vesicles,
serous burning; scorbutic swelling and bleeding of the gums, painful discomfort in the throat,
and passive state resulting in the rapid formation of bottlenecks almost suspended respiration;
colliquative diarrhea, uterine congestion excesses rules, leukorrhea accompanied serosa backache.

In
all of these symptoms is indicated azoato of potash, and therefore in cachectic states characterized
by congestive movements, which, although asthenic, present phenomena erethism orgasm local and
febrile momentary state if necessary to compare him with any drug, rather serious with arsenic
and not to aconite and wants Rau.

It remains to identify the signs of the salt of nitro in neuralgic affections. Known and the general
character and spread of this drug, as well as their pain dislacerantes or lancinating in the
joints and the face, etc members., with aggravation by night or the
end of the day is still necessary to determine, for the sick, the
conditions been repeatedly mentioned in this article to choose salt
as the drug nitro appropriate, this is how it will proceed to take
this salt a remedy for some eSCelente neuralgia and rheumatism.

= Dose .=-- The application of this medicine in the disease which is indicated by relationship similarity,
requires small doses, as already mentioned for other drugs.

The administration, therefore, 1 to 2 decigrammes of the first, second or third attenuation occurs
every hour the best results, better even than the simple solution of this salt in small doses. The use
of potash azoato sedative purposes, it is routine for a panacea that could not media replaced
with smoother and safer.

Lycopodium clavatum (Lycopodium).

§ I. - History.

Using the pollen of lycopodium clavatum family of mosses, Juss .-- Of the cryptogams, Linn .--
The preparation given to the powder consists of successive crushing sugar milk. This operation
breaks the shell of the pollen grains or ears, clearing the essence or substance containing given.
Can be used from the first shredding up the tenth or twentieth, to
make a colored dye lycopodium white light that makes the water drops
which are cast and deposits small crystals or granules budding.

The ancients did not recognize the lycopodium [6]. Murray [7] quotes attributed authors properties
active at the cooking done with the whole plant. Pollen, only part used today, is a substance to
which many doctors have attributed significant virtues, since, as ointment and tincture, simply
because the dust has been used in skin irritations, abrasions, ulcers, ringworm and intertrigo.
It is very popular use in the latter affection: he employs dusting the joints and skin folds
of obese children and to prevent irritation or abrasions.

Since it is known that similar effects lycopodium in healthy man and the priest took him just inside,
no one can doubt that its application external, according to the popular method, does not enjoy any
action by absorption verification.

There are more, taken within the same powder, has been recommended and used by pilots experiments,
the heartburn, flatulent colic, dysentery, calculous affections, rheumatism, epilepsy, lung
diseases. But the diseases that most frequently he was given the old, were those of the urinary tract.

Questioned
today about the use of lycopodium in most of the conditions mentioned, but more accurately formulating
his instructions.

Details raised over twenty years, between German and French physicians on the actual activity
of lycopodium, have been judged by many studies, publishing results they obtained. These publications
are important and interesting in the extreme.

Solo mentioned those of doctors and Chargé Lobethan. The discussion concluded, and its result
to be better known and considered today as one of the most useful
medicines.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Lycopodium, as most of the drugs deep and lasting action, and to the
that they can be referred to justice to Hahnemann antipsorics the
title, extends their influence on lymph node innervation to all systems
and all the apparatus, being recognized an elective action on the
fiber, or rather on the organic plot, and cellular and fibrous and
bone, on the heart, veins and capillaries, in the vessels and lymph
nodes, in exhalant and absorbent surfaces, in serous and mucous membranes,
skin.

If the study of their effects in the domain of esperimentacion physiological and clinical turns
out to have a sphere of action very extensive, indicates also a very special feature and that is the relationship
of this medicine with a beginning herpetic latent or declared, to the point that all seem to go
their therapeutic properties the herpes under its various forms in the aircraft skin, mucous,
lymph, and to the sympathetic conditions that depend on herpetic
diathesis and alternating with its explosion exterior.

In fairness it has been said that developing better drug effects healing in people of any age
who have had ringworm, cradle cap or serpiginous in childhood. In general, the club moss, positis
ponendis, is more effective in those quiet, nodes, but irritable, whose health is easily disturbed
and suffering from intestinal irritation with difficulty and lack of bowel, where they have colds
easily, and enjoy of robust health, and endowed with a delicate constitution, in women with
menstrual long-lasting and suffering irritation, chronic abnormal secretions, and in men and children
willing to irritations or internal psoric terns, all suffering from conditions neuralgic alternating
with those of the skin.

Under this view, the club moss has great therapeutic analogy with sulfur, calcium carbonate, sea salt.
Has many points of contact with various drugs: in febrile diseases with arsenic, phosphorus,
sulfur, in the febrile cachexia, with mercury, arsenic, phosphoric acid, nux vomica, in rheumatic diseases
accidents and arthritis, with causticum, sulfur, and in skin diseases with machine, graphite,
Spanish fly, in psychosis, with carbonate of lime, yours, phosphorus; in inflammations, with sepia,
sulfur, arsenic, in phthisis, with subcarbonate potassium, iron,
in the gastro-urinary, with gold, belladonna, phosphorus; in scrofula
with sulfur, calcium carbonate, iodine, in the affections of the bones,
with silica, gold, mercury, in hemorrhoidal disease and venous sulfur,
graphite, charcoal, in the Stomach, with nux vomica, the carbonate
of lime, Sepia, in the moral and hypochondriacal conditions with arsenic,
pulsatilla ....

Among the hallmark symptoms of lycopodium, ensure
that this suffering due to a current or former herpetic affection
and moved, or are currently dormant.

It is known that many chronic conditions are internal relations with other skin conditions
in nature herpetic, and convinced that both are replaced and supplement each other. You can
cite mainly Ringworm relations with consumption, ie the lungs, those of the anus dartros and
scrotum with the liver, eczema of the ears of the bronchi, those of the dartros of the legs, stomach
and intestines; of cold wet arms and hands with asthma nervous of acne rosacea with disorders
of the heart, the scrotum pórrigo and impotence penis .....

The effects of lycopodium is also the erethism account of the blood system with a exhalant system
opposite state, a state of opposition between the skin and mucous membranes pulmonary and gastro-intestinal,
at first loosely, in the second with tension, in the mucous hypersecretion, in skin dryness,
and vice-versa, a herpetic affection, a state excoriation of the skin and surface cracks, or
split dartros deep, alternating with intestinal disorders, the flashing
of certain neuralgias and reproduction each two or four days, the
swelling of the feet and pain several interested parties, emphysema
subcutaneous tissue, bloating and chronic constipation, spasmodic
conditions Urinary tract; disposition to a cold and cold in robust
persons, in others diminution of vital heat and organizational weakness,
the aggravation of symptoms and nerve febrile afternoon in the cool
exterior, in wet weather and the rest.

Walking through morbid cases in which advantageously plays lycopodium, establish indications of its
use, according to the symptoms specific to each condition, and the reader will find also physiological
effects, but ordered therapeutically.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = slow fevers.

Lycopodium .-- Although tuberculosis is more especially useful in disease chronic, such as
sea salt, it is not unusual to use him in some febrile diseases, such as typhoid fever and ataxic
nerve or in the period of decrease, with alternatives the big chill and heat without burning
in the head, congestion of the face, but only redness the cheeks, sweating and do not relieve
debilitating, redness and dryness of the tongue, constipation, ESRD. In these cases, the lycopodium
is indicated by the steady-state fever and the symptoms of other drugs.

The pulmonary tuberculosis with purulent expectoration usually drink the salty, obstinate constipation
and extremely sensitive to cold, is typical of the medicine, observing further: the coloring
circumscribed in the cheeks, swelling of the face and hands, burning with heat incomplete
respiration, alternative chill and heat, night sweats and chest the
back, heat in the palms, nervous excitement, great impressionability
and access senders.

Lycopodium is more effective when the consumption is the result of pneumonia, is equally useful
in phthisis and bronchitis mucosa with purulent expectoration, and the tin is an analogous, but
if you have diarrhea or normal regularity and easy rules, it is preferable
whipped acid.

Lycopodium is indicated even in certain fevers subacute dependent irritation with on the skin
or on mucous membranes, in consequence of a rash or a listed or acute herpes disappears in the midst
of a stormy disturbance of the economy so as envisaged that correspond to certain angina medication,
leucorrhoea, rashes very pronounced, fluxion on the cheek, hemorrhoids, usually with intermittent chills
neuralgias repeated.

= B = Neuralgia. Neuropathies .-- The toothache, sciatica and other neuralgias own the club moss are
accompanied or followed by more or less flegmásicas swelling, edema, pain friendly in a distant organ
or which extend to the adjacent parts, sciatica order that binds or complicated by lumbago.

Lycopodium
pains are generally dislacerantes and lancinating, sometimes very violent, but not continuous,
they are more alive at night and at rest, or they appear in these circumstances, and also in wet
weather. They are usually nocturnal, deep, burning, and appear fixed to the periosteum. Pain
at the entrance of movements observed in congestive face, burning in the limbs, large irritable,
spasmodic tics, tremors, cramps, convulsive movements are also physiological symptoms which make him
suitable lycopodium to combat the painful and spasmodic tics.

It also preceded the pain stiffness, weakness and laxity of the muscles. Spasmodic conditions
and epilepsy same, as healing has been attributed to lycopodium, presented a general and nervous
symptoms just eat ESPON. Many of lycopodium further indicate its action on contractility of
the fiber.
 Their painted faces are distorted
with the effort of their wild exertions; their befeathered heads are rendered still more hideous
by the lurid blending of conflicting lights. Thirty creatures, hardly recognizable as human
beings, dance to the accompaniment of a strange crooning of the women onlookers; to the beating
of sad-toned drums, and the harsh scraping of stringed instruments. But the dance is marked
by a distinct time. It has unmistakable features and figures, and it proceeds to its natural
finish which leaves the dancers prostrate upon the ground, with their faces pressed hard into
the dusty earth. It is a wild scene.

But the Sun-dance has only begun. There is much to follow.

Now a single figure moves out of the crowd, and takes its position in the arena. It is the
young chief. His attitude is one of sublime dignity. His erect figure and haughty carriage
bear the indelible stamp of his illustrious forbears. Silently he raises one hand, and a deathly
hush falls upon his people.

And Little Black Fox speaks.

Tall, handsome, lithe, a frame of great bone and smooth sinewy muscle, he is an imposing figure.
He wears no blanket, just the buckskin, beaded as becomes his high rank.

He harangues mightily, now working himself into an almost uncontrolled fury, again letting
his voice die down to that plaintive, musical note which alone belongs to the Sioux tongue.
And his speech is of war--wild, fierce, unreasonable war, such as his people love. He is thrilling
with the untamed spirit of his ancestors, and every word he utters carries a ready conviction
to the untutored souls to whom it is addressed.

He sweeps on in a torrential flow of passion, and those who listen are roused at once to a
savage enthusiasm. There are no interruptions. The oration is received in complete silence.
These are Indians taken into their sovereign's council; they are there to hear while the young
brave pronounces, with all the fire of his ardent, aboriginal nature, the doom of their white
masters.

The wise men of the council are grouped together and sit aloof. They sit like mummies, smoking,
and with every appearance of indifference. But their ears are wide open. One alone displays
interest, and it is noticeable that he is different from all the rest of the aged group. He
is younger. He has blue eyes and fair hair, and his skin is pale. Yet he, too, is blanketed
like his companions. He listens acutely to the end of the speech. Then he silently moves away,
and, unheeded, becomes lost in the adjacent woods.

As the chieftain's last words die away the men of "med'cine" rise from their groveling attitude
and a fresh dance begins. But this time it is not confined to the clearing. It is one which
launches them into the midst of the audience. Hither and thither they caper, and from their
tracks emerge a number of very young men. It might be that this is the "Dance of Selection,"
for it undoubtedly has the result of bringing forth a number of striplings from the ranks of
the onlookers.

The dancers have made the complete circuit, and about one hundred young men, little more than
boys, join in the great Sun-dance.

Now ensues one of the most terrible scenes of human barbarity conceivable. In the course of
the dance the "med'cine" men seize upon each of the willing victims in turn. On the breast
of each boy incisions are made with long, keen knives; two parallel incisions on each side
of the chest. The flesh between each two of these is then literally torn from the underlying
tissues, and a rough stick is thrust through the gaping wounds. So the would-be brave is spitted. 

The irregularity of the rules, but with excess menstrual flow in women hysterical or very nervous,
requires the use of ignacia: in these cases, changes were seen in various sensitivity, such
as nail hysterical, migraine, toothache, various neuralgias, spasms, the ball almost always
hysterical, anxiety, palpitations, puffs of heat in uppers, partial and no uncomfortable heat
steadily.

The ignacia has a remarkable action on the mucous membranes at their point of union with the skin,
which is highly recommended: 1. No cracks in the lips, irritation, dryness, pain and pronounced
redness of the parts, the zinc is more in the cracks with pale; pulsatility, if color is blue,
the sea salt and phosphorus, if cracks are crusting mercury, abrasions and ulcer exudates,
the mezereum, more analogous to ignacia in this special case, as the former differs from the
general characters of their action on the body.

2. No cracks in the anus, itching, throbbing, constricting pain: these are linear, shallow and
together, usually with exudation. Acid is indicated for cracks whip more irregular or more deep,
exuding that they bleed easily, and relate to some remote symptoms
of syphilis.

Lead, in its action on the year, is more analogous Ignatius, but differs in all the other symptoms.

3.
º prolapsus In the rectum with or without cracks: in the first case, the crack causes prolapse
of the rectum through the efforts of expulsion and contractions which excites; healed the rift,
stops the descent of the rectum and pains and contractions in the
second case, Ignacio is one of the best curative, especially in children.

4.

º In the year itch, and so on caused by roundworms, but in this case, Valerian is preferred
in children, even when seizures. The marum and sulfur may be necessary auxiliary to the ignacia.
The espigelia is also indicated in pruritus these species when they occur after a fever or
that occur during the course of a fever verminous, and have been sympathetically aroused anxieties
palpitations, nervous disorders generally.

5. º conjunctivitis in some children and adults, when the conjunctiva tumeface forming a bun
and investing outwards. Only in this circumstance and before hypertrophy the lid margin is when should
the ignacia, is the drug most useful in ophthalmia of newborns, when developing conjunctival
impeller.

The ignacia plays little skin conditions, but is useful as an accessory in the intertrigo, in erythema
of the members in sensitive or nervous persons, and particularly in a species burning itch that occupies
most of the skin and disappears after scratching. Conditions it is more advantageous and more
often useful this drug, its elective action the spinal nerves are neuro, neuralgia and spasms,
whose characters go to indicate.

The ignacia and ipecacuanha are very similar in body spasm with stiffness, stretching, spasmodic
jerking of the limbs, and movements in the muscles of the face, but
is more ignacia in particular, congestion shooting in the head, pale
alternative and redness of one cheek, and the irregularity in the
distribution of heat.

The action of this drug in the spinal cord seconded by which also owns about ganglionic nervous
system, makes it effective in spasms caused by indignation Fast concentrations
in this system, and the regret that occurs from the beginning a chronic.


With unerring judgment he broke cover directly in rear of Nevil's log hut. There was neither
window nor door on this side, a fact which he was evidently aware of, for, without hesitation,
but with movements as silent as any Indian, he crept round to the front, and sidled to the
window. Here there was a light shining dully, but no means of obtaining a view of the interior.
He moved on, and, crouching at the doorway, listened intently. A few seconds satisfied him.
Wanaha was inside; she was awake, for he heard her moving about. He knew at once that Nevil
was out.

With a satisfied sigh he moved away. This time he walked eastward toward the bridge, keeping
close in the shadow of the woods. A couple of hundred yards from the hut he stopped and took
up a position just within the shelter of the undergrowth, whence he had a perfect view of the
open plain in front, and yet was sufficiently sheltered by the echoing woods to hear the least
movement of any one passing that way. And so he waited.

Nor did he wait long. The
starry sky flaunted her pale fire, earth slept quietly, and when was heard in the distance a barking
dog or the crowing of a rooster.

I remembered things and past events, evoked painful memories of childhood, grief and bitterness
children, the sad days of school, the melancholy of first love. One by one they paraded loving
relatives before me, loyal servants, friends never forgotten. In reviewing the pages of the booklet
of my life I thought I was going through lengthy, desolate street between two rows of graves
whitened here and there in the shade of willows and cypresses.

The happiness and welfare of my family in better times came to smile, to hurt with their happy
memories my aching heart. Before wealth, respect, praise, flattery.

Now poverty, distrust, contempt, forgetting .... Where were the friends of my parents? No
had only two: the kindly doctor and the schoolmaster's unfortunate ....

I found thinking about the happy days of my first love. Then came
before me white woman's figure.

Lean, pale, ethereal, ideal, that image came to remind me dear forgotten oaths, promises. Sad,
sorrowful, weeping, seemed to say: - "I offer your soul and your life, you gave me your heart,
and gave them to another .... Ungrateful!

"

And that voice had the timbre of the voice of Angelina. The vision faded away by a wind gust morning
spent shaking the tops of the orange and swinging the datura.

Follies boy! Delusions of ardent imagination! Presentiments a timid soul, of an inconstant heart!

Infinite
longing that I felt the love that filled my soul was the last of my life, desire very firm
to live only for Angelina, just for her, craving to be good to deserve love the modest girl,
to enjoy, as a thing itself, the beauty of that sky studded with stars, the thousands upon thousands
of beauty that the night had covered with their veils, and that within a few hours, at the break
of dawn, would appear in all its magnificence, that only condition would be good to me possible
to enjoy the supreme spectacle of nature, so that I will reveal all
its charms, and are not mysteries to me the sweet melancholy an autumn
afternoon, and the smiling joy of a May dawn, or the serenity burning
one-day heat wave, or the terrifying majesty of the storm, when unleashed
on high flashes livid fire with the tops of the mountains.

I believed then - poor fellow dreamer! - A rising of fire would be dull and foggy for the evil, that
the lilies of the river would not have flavors for the wicked, that the rain would silence
enmudecerían fearful their music and when to pass under its arches, vaults beneath their foliage,
stained hearts. I thought that love was the real prize and palm of goodness, and to love and
be loved, to love as tall as I was and quite understand, elevation sublime, constant desire
for perfection, never-ending aspiration at all, it was necessary
resemble the soul, so pristine and pure, the flower opens its dew
crowned corolla intact loving the breath of zephyrs.

I spent the night in the window.

Orion fell into the sunset, and the truck was hiding its stars deep in mourning cloud that
rose slowly growing in the humid valleys Pluviosilla.

Long I stood there with his face in his hands.

The dream squinted my eyes, and was I to pick, when grave and majestic bell rang the parish church.
Ringing, mysterious and solemn that announces the arrival of the day, they repeated from mountain
to mountain states the inhabitants of the mountain that has raised
Villaverde.

A bronze sacred echoes answering the river, forests, orchards and poultry. Currents Stony change
of pace, there in the thickets chorale preludes, loving flutter, and begins all over the movement
and life.

It seems that the winds are rushing to pour through the valleys the
scent of the flowers opened during the night.

The highlights of the campaign were heavy and slow .... Ceased and a moment later broke all the
towers in a ring busy, placid, playful and childish, as if convened
school crowds, as if the little angels were naughty harpers escaped
from heaven.

Masses of Christmas!

XXVI

I heard noise in the next room. Pepilla aunt had risen, and soon to call. Banged on the door, and
the answer I said:

- Let's lazy! And is dawning .... Arriba! It's time! ... If you must go with us, Arise! Did not
you hear the ringing?

And the good lady laughed and joked like a child.

Still did not stop the music of a thousand bells villaverdinas.

The Parish, serious, solemn as an archdeacon when she sings the Preface in the Mass of Corpus, the
San Francisco Seriot, circular rhythm playing, round the twist, as in the string Sunday, the San
Juan tune and shrill, the steeple of the church of San Antonio arming an uproar without as
well as in an orchestra cymbals and chinoiserie, in the belfry of
the convent of Santa Teresa bells went crazy, and the cracked bell
of Christ sounded smug and conceited to resemble a cracked tenor that
does not leave the theater.

The group was uniquely beautiful.

One ring varied and capricious, without unity or measure, so different from another that are
advertised on special occasions and holidays classics, had something the wonderful modern music
it seems that the tools are free, your account walking free, neglecting time and discipline,
fleeing from each other, but suddenly come together and agree on
rare and unique harmony that first surprised, then subjugation, and,
finally, makes us silent woods, region or celajes cloudless sky, cerulean
seas asleep.

The music of the towers fell on the city in fresh waves and spread through the valley a flooded
river way that would escape the ravines.

There he paused a moment, and then as we got up eager to return to
the heights, to soar into the heavens towards the stars that were
pale and dim light erasing the sunset.

How well this vibrant harmonized uproar in the wake of valleys and
mountains, winged people's preludes, with the rustling of the trees,
with idyllic song Pedregoso with the sparkle of the stars, and the
lowing of the herds in the nearby ejido!

Do not know why I was afraid that Aunt Pepilla knew I had not tried to sleep. Rid the intact bed
sheets and blankets stirring, took his hat and overcoat, and went into the corridor. The old
and Angelina awaited me there. Aunt Pepa very battered with the shawl, the maid, fallen on the shoulders
coat, showed her beautiful face.

- Good morning - told me shy and
timid.

I am sure that turned red as a poppy to shake my hand.

- Come on, boy ... go! What are you waiting for?

And you Angelina: Lady Jane to wake up at to stay with Carmen?

-
Yes, ma'am.

- Well, let's go, Rorra that from here to San Antonio
and we have to walk.

Far, but there go, - repeat - there are stories, and rattles, and tambourines, and string
music that plays sounds and happy parts, and the mass is not long .... How that says P. Solis!

We take up the street, a narrow and uneven pavement. Excruciating had to climb hill. The chapel
of San Antonio is in the Barrio Alto.

From there you can enjoy a beautiful panorama.

The burning lanterns with dim light. The serene extinguished their torches, and women's groups
and children were rushed to the temple.

The mother scolded the kids because they sounded their horns and tambourines, and fearing
that a precise time and others they remain dumb.

I offered my arm to the elderly.

- No, - he said - I better off alone! Give the lady ....

Angelina not refused, but I realized that accepted him for commitment. He stopped aunt Pepa
and smilingly told us:

- Nice figure! The following old heartthrobs!

Angelina wanted to unbind his arm, but I would not let him.

Find new groups that were in a hurry, no doubt to win place in the chapel. In one corner ran
into some "nacateros' their way to market heavily loaded with large pieces of bloody flesh.
Upon arriving at the square in front of us spent a milkman, riding a pony, a pitcher on either
side. He greeted us respectfully. He was young, well clearly told us her fresh and clean voice

-
It ....-- Mauricio said Angelina.

- The Santa Clara dairy .... Of the estate of Mr. Fernandez ....-- added the old woman addressing me.

When
we climbed the stairs we saw people crowded into the door. Not yet opened the sexton, and all were
struggling to put in a good place to go first.

The chapel of San Antonio, the "sanctuary", as they call the old villaverdinos, is a Churrigueresque
church, very well prepared and placed on top of a hill from which dominates the skyline.

The cemetery is bounded with a fence that has paths doors on three
sides.

Four aged cypresses give the site a burial, the true appearance of the cemetery.

Pepilla aunt did not want to get to the point where the devotees were
scrambling to break through, and sat on the top step of the staircase.

Laughed the boys, the girls chattered, scolded the old, and was a
small fry around, with incessant noise of bells and whistles of water
wonderfully mimicked the chirping of a chorus of larks.

Angelina and I approached the gate, toward the city. And no ringing
in the towers.

In each of them a high-pitched bell, urgent and shrill, called the faithful.

Not yet dawn. Villaverde lanterns glowed in the dark streets and above the rooftops like a
swarm of fireflies.

The waning sky in lights, and a peaceful glauca clear, pure and peaceful
atmosphere and as the cool breeze that rocked the cypress, was flooding
the sky.

Orion sank between the peaks of the Andes, and Ursa Major down to
the valleys of Pluviosilla.

In the region where vague dawn heralded the dawn. The whole valley revived, the Stony ran garrulous
and singer, as if its waves softly repeated the strange harmony of the chimes.

The clear skies that night almost winter was gradually losing its immense serenity. Of vague whiteness
that dawned in the eastern peaks of the soft blue-green ink everything
invaded, rose slowly, first swing and indefinable, then different
and well shaped, colored clouds and clouds of violet, through which
we saw the stars disappear between bursts of fire.

The church bells were calling the river was still singing, and whispering the woods, and came
from the forests and glens something like distant sound of orchestras mysterious ran back in the
mountains, in the depths of the mountains, unheard symphony.

Was opened, at last, the door of the chapel, and the crowd rushed into the sacred precinct.

Elbows on the fence we beheld the spectacle of this splendid entrancing twilight Villaverde
landscape lit by the red glare of the rising day on fire furnace with reflections of the colored
clouds on the horizon that rowed.

- Angelina - I cried, shaking hands with the girl - you love me forever, forever, as I love
you?

- Always! - Answered trembling .-- As today, and tomorrow, even after death!

In the dim light of dawn, it bathed in celestial clearness the face of Angelina, I crying, that two
tears rolled down her cheeks.

- Girl! - Cried my aunt from the threshold of the temple .-- What are you doing? Mass has begun!

The
girl ran to the church. The towers released the last ring, the body broke its streams of mystical
harmonies, and their solemn chords joined children's choir festival voices, whistles warblers
of tintinantes noisy tambourines.

The Mass was beginning .... Fr Solis sang with his devoted and charming little voice:

"Gloria in excelsis Deo!"

XXVII

From my house to the office of Castro Perez. After work, at about five o'clock, no gathering
in the pharmacy, no touching to hear Ms. Fernandez.

In my house, my poor house, which I looked like a castle. If anything, and that from time to
time, to visit dominoes or chatting Andrew. On Sunday, back from Mass to talk to the aunts and
Angelina, reading, to write ....

In the afternoon the patio. The maid and I Regab plants, and then we we installed the orange foot.
We cut violets and roses, and we amused ourselves in making bouquets, determined each that theirs
was the best.

Angelina used to weave a garland that mixed ferns in a wonderful way. There are variety of them
in Villaverde, and our garden grew the most beautiful. Near the fountain, on the rocks, and trunks
old, there were some who seemed feathers, silk ribbons, strips of satin.

After the play, ran to hear the verdict of the ladies. For the sick were better Mine, for Angelina
Aunt Pepa were the prettiest. The award of those contests Flower was a loving embrace of the wretched
old woman, which could only prolong hand to pat the winner. But there was always for the young
tender phrase, a compliment those trembling lips, at times made for a smile of pain.

Served after the bouquets to decorate the small altar of the Virgin, before which burned a a butterfly
all the time. Placed the offering we returned to the patio. So did
Angelina another bunch, a very cute ramilletín, to glad my bedroom,
placed in a glass never missing glass, Diamela, carmine or heliotrope
blossoms fragrant.

While the young flowers available, confident that
the aunts could not hear and that Juana had left, we spoke of our
love. Masses of Christmas gave us time to talk very comfortable. We
went, we left behind Aunt Pepa, I gave the girl's arm, and from the
house to the church that was a pleasure chatting.

More than once
begged my aunt to tell me the story of Angelina, I asked insistently
I referred to it as had been under the protection of P. Herrera, an
old man to tending in a small town flavor of the saw large flock of
farmers, but Mrs. silent, without which neither prayers nor entreaties
made him open his lips.

- But, aunt - he would say me - you remember
that when I arrived, talking about Angelina, I told you: "I'll tell
you »....

- For what - he answered .-- It is a very sad story ....

I
did not cause surprise the singular discretion of my aunts. So there
were always all of family.

Certain things not spoken in my home.
This reserve was injurious to them on occasion. Until I was twenty-five
years I knew my uncle Albert, a brave soldier who died vomit victim
in Yucatán was not my mother's brother.

My grandparents do not know
where they picked him up, gave her upbringing, name and race, and
they all believed brother of my aunts. Nobody told me that story.
Supel casually. Registering a shelf left by the wayside I found several
documents, letters from the grandfather and a copy of his will. They
read the story of my uncle, and I estimate the noble soul of the testator,
generous and selfless than most. And what if the old military was
good! And what if it was smart! What cards so well written! Concepts
as clear as that its serene Spanish lyrics and graceful.

To tell
the truth, I wanted to know the story takes Angelina, but I never
dared to speak this. She was ahead of my desires, and one afternoon,
sitting at the foot of the orange, while available on his knees a
violet beam, separating those that were withering and meal worms severing
the stem and huddled in groups, he said:

- Look, my Rorra: love me
very, very, how you want your Angelina. I love you with more love
great that it can be warm in the heart of woman, and know how to love
the poor and unfortunate. Do you ever have had the misfortune of my
life? Never? Well if you do not know, if your aunts wanted to refer
my story, listen to my lips. Perhaps I should tell it before giving
listen to your love before confessing my love. Many times I wanted
to talk about it, but or I have not had the courage to do so, or you,
with your loving words, you have distracted my thoughts. It is good
to know everything. So you can not say you never cheated. And, too, there was a new and delightful sense of responsibility
in the heavy lolling of the revolver holsters upon her hips. But above all there was the supreme
feeling that she was endeavoring to help those she had left behind.

Her tears had dried before she mounted to the back of the animal to which she was now pinning
her faith. The parting kiss she had imprinted upon the man's thin cheek had inspired her. Life
meant nothing to her without him. Her fortune was nothing to her, no one was anything to her
compared with him. He stood out over everything else in her thoughts.

She heard the rumbling of the wheels of Joe Smith's wagons, but gave no heed to them. Instead,
she rode straight on to the south, purposely avoiding the newcomers she was ostensibly going
to meet. In a few minutes she drew rein at Wanaha's log hut.

She was not without some doubts when she saw that the place was in darkness. But her apprehensions
were quickly dissipated. Her first summons brought the squaw to the door, where her tall, dark
figure stood out in the gentle starlight.

As was her custom Rosebud handed the woman the reins to hook upon the wall. She was constrained
to do without her usual greeting, for she knew that, here too, she must deceive to gain her
ends. It would be madness to tell the half-tamed savage her real intentions. Wanaha's love
for her was great, but well she knew that blood is thicker than water, and a savage's blood
more particularly so than anybody's else.

Once inside the hut Wanaha was the first to speak.

"You come? On this night?" she questioned, choosing her English words with her usual care.

The girl permitted no unnecessary delay in plunging into the object of her visit.

"Yes, yes, my Wana," she replied, drawing the tall woman to her, so that, in the dim starlight,
they sat together on the edge of the bed. Her action was one of tender affection. Wanaha submitted,
well pleased that her white friend had allowed nothing of the doings of her people to come
between them. "Yes, I come to you for help. I come to you because I want to remove the cause
of all the trouble between your people and mine. Do you know the source of the trouble? I'll
tell you. I am!"

Rosebud looked fixedly in the great dark eyes, so soft yet so radiant in the starlight.

"I know. It is--my brother. He want you. He fight for you. Kill, slay. It matter not so he
have you."

The woman nodded gravely. The girl's heart bounded, for she saw that her task was to be an
easy one.

"Yes, so it is. I have thought much about this thing. I should never have come back to the
farm. It was bad."

Again Wanaha nodded.

"And that is why I come to you. I love my friends. There is some one I love, like you love
your Nevil, and I want to save him. They will all be killed if I stay, for your brother is
mighty--a great warrior. So I am going away."

Rosebud's allusion to the squaw's love for her husband was tactful. She was completely won.
The girl, who was clasping one of Wanaha's hands, felt a warm, responsive pressure of sympathy,
and she knew.

"Yes, now I want you to help me," she hurried on. "To go as I am now, a white girl in white
girl's clothing, would be madness. I know your people. I should never escape their all-seeing
eyes. I must go like one of your people."

"You would be--a squaw?" A wonderful smile was in the great black eyes as Wanaha put the question.

"Yes."

"Yes, I see. Wana sees." A rising excitement seemed to stir the squaw. She came closer to her
white friend and spoke quickly, stumbling over her English in a manner she would never have
permitted in cooler moments. "An' in these way you mak' yourself go. You fly, you run; so my
brother, the great chief, no more you find. Yes? Then him say, 'him gone.' We no more use him
fight. We go by tepee quick. An' there is great peace. Is that how?"

"That is it," cried Rosebud, in her eagerness flinging her arms about the squaw's neck. "We
must be quick. Seth will miss me from the farm, and then there'll be a to-do, and he will come
hunting for me. Lend me your clothes, a blanket, and an Indian saddle. Quick, my Wana! you'll
help me, won't you? Oh, make haste and say, and set my doubts at rest!"

The tide of the girl's appeal had its effect. The squaw rose swiftly, silently. She moved off
and presently came back with a bundle of beaded buckskin clothing.

"You wear these, they my own. I get him for you. See. You put on, I go get saddle. The blanket
here. So. Nevil, my Nevil, from home. Wana not know where. But maybe he come quick an' find
you an' then----"

Wana did not finish expressing her fears. She seemed suddenly to remember of whom she was speaking,
and that there was disloyalty in what she was saying.

But Rosebud was paying little heed. She was already changing her clothes. She knew the value
of time just then, and she had been forced to waste much already. The high lords of the government were on a stage along the path for reaching
the prisoner, having behind him the whole neighborhood of the capital, a so huge crowd was
out of sight. These powerful people received him with great consideration samples that did not
correspond to his humble rank of professor. Made to them the highest praise of the intellectual
giant of a gentleman, different statements all giants who arrived before the country. Suggested
the desirability of saving for a long time to know, thanks to its culture, progress in the world
of monstrous men, and copy what is profitable, if they really had something worthy of imitation, what
seemed problematic.

- It is a pity that this man-mountain is not a woman ....

The representatives
of the Council looked forward to Flimnap after his last words, appreciating
merit as a teacher who had vegetated unjustly forgotten, and which
should henceforth its high protection.

Also praised the likes of the rector, powerful character whose advice were always heard by the lords
of the Executive.

The Father of the Masters - for that was his honorary title - like
many of the poets and until he wrote poems when he was not worried
about his historical findings.

All Republic writers praised his poetry as inimitable works, being such praise the surest way
to achieve good employment in public education.

Seeing him on stage Flimnap the lords of the government, hastened
to break the news that the giant was also a poet, although "his way"
with all the rudeness and stupidity of their sex, but added that,
notwithstanding such defects, characteristic of its origin, it seemed
possess some talent.

- Oh Father of the Masters! - He said -.

Tomorrow I will have the honor to give a translation done in our language of the verses that
I found in the pocket book Gentleman-Mountain. It would be regrettable that the high lords
of the Council decide his death. My taste would translate English some of the immortal works of
our wonderful Father of the Masters, for that poor giant finds out
that our poetry has reached a height never know He, however the material
greatness of his body.

Father smiled modestly Masters, but the smile gave the teacher safety that the giant's life was insured
and it would have the opportunity to read the verses of rector translated into English.

Then Flimnap recommended to all occupants of the government stand
that looking ahead to monster through the lens of decline that had
brought a fellow of the University, Professor Physics, as well could
appreciate him as he was.

Entering the next day at the office of chief of the government monthly,
saw with joy Dr. Momar, the Father of the Masters, was talking to
the chief magistrate.

Flimnap, prior report to the president of all his works, he had offered several sheets Momar paper
with the translation of the verses of Gillespie. The Father of the Masters, standing before
round eye glasses, began reading beside a window.

When he finished his Flimnap report on the work to install the giant approached the university
character keeping the papers in his right hand.

- Something Light - said with a disdainful severity -. Verses are unquestionably man and huge man.
But it would be unfair to deny some inspiration, and I even dare say here among us will learn
much, if it comes to exercising in the national language.

- For this, O Father of the Masters! - Flimnap said - it will be necessary for the poor giant
alive.

- My opinion is that it must live - interrupted the president -.

My wife and my children found it very nice yesterday to see him enter the city. A son of mine, who
is the Air Force and riding a machine that took him, told me it really funny things. All Boys
government Guard also find it very pleasant, and even some say it is beautiful .... Did you have
a good idea, Professor Flimnap, advising him reduction lens sights .... I would argue that we should
let him live, if only for a short time. It will be expensive, but the Republic can afford this
luxury, as well as rare animals kept at their zoo. And you what do you think of this, Momar illustrious
friend?

The Father of the Masters, convinced that the chief minister was infallible
less than his words, saying only slowly:

- I feel the same.

- Then
- continued the President - if you state that opinion to my fellow
Council much respect as all the high wisdom, the life of the giant
remains safe.

Professor Flimnap, anxious to conceal his pleasure at producing these
words, hastened to request came from the two high officials to leave
the room.

Came up it a growing murmur of the crowd. The great courtyard of the palace should be already full
of guests. A military music sounded incessantly.

Flimnap escaped by some unfrequented halls, fearing trip with reporters, it lagged behind him
since the day before asking fresh news. Two daily the capital, scandals always rivals, published every
three hours is an issue with details new on the man-mountain and
customs, poor putting in the words of wisdom lies and nonsense that
made him roar of indignation.

One of the newspapers defended the appropriateness respect the life of the giant, and this had
been enough to counter the publication required immediate death, believing that such a tremendous
greed would eventually plunge guest shortages in the country, being the cause of thousands and thousands
of countrymen starve.

The teacher hated equally to the two newspapers and other publications, who sent the editors behind
him as if they were dogs chasing a frightened deer.

Eager to go unnoticed, went up to the upper floors in hopes of finding a seat in the galleries
overlooking the courtyard, and were occupied this morning by the
wives and daughters of all the characters of the Republic.

His well-educated woman gallantry compelled him to stand, to avoid
depriving seat to the male weaklings and long robe and large cloak
who had come to witness the party.

The glory of the teacher was accompanied by a new vision of existence. Never Life had seemed
so beautiful and attractive. All those bearded Midwives something hairy arms and severe and aristocratic,
with the majesty of the mother could not know the reason he had avoided until then the sweetness
and pleasures of social life. No one could tell in his person the famous professor Flimnap,
so praised by all the newspapers. Then he did report that in the morning the major newspapers
had published his picture, and tried to hide her face whenever a man drew back the veil to
him with vague curiosity.

It was reassuring to note that the ladies were set out in the back of the courtyard, occupied only
by women.

Warriors Guard, always with one hand on the handle the sword and the other stroking his curly
hair, looking upwards, smiling to the girls, excited with their garlands of flowers and veils.
Some of them, already considered of marriageable age for having pointed out the beard, answering
these looks with winks, equivalent to loving phrases to avoid being seen by the grim matrons
sitting beside her. This show is frivolous, that a day earlier would have been scorned by Flimnap,
now moved him with deep feelings of tenderness.

- Oh, love! ... Love! - Whispered the sage.

Life is beautiful, and he acknowledged that sweetness and mystery
keeps unsuspected by the University.

To overcome this feeling unwelcome, it was setting on the characters that filled the courtyard.
A stand still desert, was for the Executive Council, Ministers and other dignitaries. In other
courtrooms, almost full, were parents and spouses of all the ladies filled the galleries. Flimnap
knew many of the pictures appeared in newspapers. MPs were characters,
famous because of his speeches.

Some had belonged Executive Council and wished to return to him, appealing to all sorts of intrigues
to get it.

Driven by curiosity and the comments of several bearded ladies, the teacher finally fixed in
one of the women who occupied the dais of the Senate. Was Gurdilo, the famous chief of opposition
to the current government: a high female, devoid of meat, with skin countersunk as if on a
leash, and a thick, strained tendons that were marked in the neck,
arms and other visible parts of your body.

The sharp eyes were fixed and imperious, and his gesture was sour, as eternally angry person
against everything that is not his work.

The professor, who to live devoted to his rare and profound studies gave little attention to current
issues, had not noticed this character ever, but now looked with great interest. Divined in
him an enemy of the Gentleman-Mountain.

Sufficient if the government Edwin decided to pardon for Gurdilo advised his death, as if it
depended national happiness. In addition, the newspaper calling for the abolition of man-mountain
had already reproduced in one of the issues some disturbing words of the redoubtable leader
of the opposition.

The teacher saw how violently waving his arms when talking to his fellow Senate while he frowned
and twisted his mouth in a gesture of severely shocked. This made him believe that the ceremony was
protesting this, that the poor giant had been brought to the capital,
in short, everything made by the Executive Board and as thinking to
do.

But the teacher's observations were suddenly interrupted by the principle of the ceremony. Military
music, still playing in the yard, was deafened by the beating a large drum band approaching coming
from inside the palace.

The high and mighty lords of the Executive Council could only be presented in ceremonies Officers
surrounded by great pomp.

They entered the courtyard the drums, which were about thirty, and behind them the same number
of trumpeters. Then the army marched an army line, I mean those girls fins hulled Gillespie
had seen the awakening. The soldiers were armed, some others with bows and halberds. After the
guards passed sword carrier, bringing with tip up and supported by his two hands locked on his chest
a huge Claymore as well as shining like silver.

From the time of the Empire was still absurdly ostentatious ceremonial that surround despots.
Several small page spent moving high white feather fans for no insects come to molest the five
supreme magistrates of the republic. After they were marching one by one, but not on foot,
but in five litters carried on shoulders for children of influential
people, for that honor represented the beginning of a great career
administrative.

The girls carry the berths were then sent to Council govern a distant province.

Also passed the bunks of the chairmen of the Senate and House of Representatives, and then the
Rector of the University, which was shaped like an owl and was carried
to arms by four assistant teachers.

Finally, bringing up the rear, but on foot, ministers, senior officials and government Guard
detachment with long spears.

When the five Executive Council and the Father of the Masters with their respective entourages were
installed on the platform of honor, ceased to sound the trumpets, drums and music becoming a
long silence. I was about to begin the parade of the wonderful things that were Luggage Man-Mountain.

A
senior official of the Ministry of Justice, which depended all notaries nation, advanced to a spokesman
in one hand and manifest in another paper that contained the explanations
given by Dr. Flimnap, having translated the labels many objects belonging
to the giant.

These explanations often pulled long Pygmy laughter to the crowd, I felt pity for the ignorance
and rudeness of colossus. At other times, the big contest was in deep silence, as if everyone,
to the vacillations of the inventory, seek a solution to explain the usefulness of the object
mysterious.

What we all realized, thanks to the teacher's explanations in English, was content and the use
of towers bright as silver, which were placed through the patio each on a motor vehicle. These towers
had covered the whole side of their round edges with a paper poster, which was traced mysterious
signs, about the size of a person.

Flimnap science had been able to unravel this mystery, thanks to the
interpretation of signs.

Cans were. But although the translator had not served scientists, the subtle smell of those
pygmies would have discovered the enormous content cylinders, notwithstanding that they were tightly
closed. For olfactory acuity, metal let in almost irresistible smells so intense. All aspired
to force the environment, from the five heads of government to the little page holder fans.

The passage of each tower was greeted with a dazzling general cry: "This is meat !...» Shortly after
they said in chorus: "This is tomato !...» After a few minutes, they said loudly: "Now is
peas!" And all were amazed that a figure to be in person, even if a colossus, could feed those
matters which spread an unbearable stench to them, almost equal to that complaint putrefaction.

Desiring
to remove as soon as this general discomfort, parade organizers did
appear in the yard to a score of naked slaves, carrying between them
some slack and rigid, a carpet square, white, soft blue with a border,
and holding in one corner a hieroglyph embroidery, which, according
to the statement Flimnap teacher, consisted of letters intertwined.

Here science university in light extended digression to explain to his countrymen the existence
of tissue between the man-mountain, the inconsistent use and give you things unpleasant to have
in him.

But, as always happens in the great feasts, the public did not pay attention to the explanations
of the scientist, preferring to examine directly what they had before their eyes.

A fragrance garden that seemed to come from afar began to spread around the yard, making forget
the stench exhaled from thick silver towers. The women and girls of galleries stirred fluid
with pleasure that essentially unknown.

Moms were talking them, looking for similarities and similarities with the perfumes of fashion
among males. Some focused their attention in order to explain in the same day to the perfumers
of capital the rare essence of man-mountain, and that the factory, at whatever cost.

Then came more servants bare arm leading to new objects. Six of them held as an overwhelming
weight, the notebook whose leaves had translated Flimnap. Then another Athletes came, rolling on
the floor, just as if they were drums, several metal disks, large, flat and out of round, found
in the pockets of the giant.

These discs were of different sizes and metals, taking all the limelight on both faces huge
bust of a woman and a bird of prey with outspread wings. According to the explanation Flimnap
the sage, served in the country of the man-mountain as signs of change, and were all included
under the general title of "currency."

Some were silver, and only reaches the knees bent athletic servant on them for rolling. Others were
of copper, and a little more or less the same size. The audience, somewhat bored by these objects
without interest, only showed some curiosity to see four disks each driven by two men. Of such
discs came almost to the waist their guides, and they were solid gold, having for the relief decoration
of a great eagle with wings and a shield with stripes and stars.

He returned to wane the interest while other slaves were marching
in pairs.

Two men had between them, just as if it were a poster announcing, a strip of printed paper much longer
than high. All these posters had a layer of grease and dirt, in the the microscopic view of the pygmies
saw stirrings tiny monsters of the microbial world.

The papers were adorned with portraits of men, completely unknown Mountains Professor Flimnap.
They all sported the word "bank" and a number followed by the word dollar.

The learned professor dared to issue its report, the theory that such papers may represent something
akin to the currency, but could not understand how it works and its
usefulness, and strange also that people would accept that instead
of the metal discs.

Neither the public was set much in such explanations. They wanted all that ended as before the
parade of banners greasy.

Among the delicate creatures that inhabited the upper galleries were
some attempts at fainting.

Midwives took out their vials of salts to revive the nose sore. On the stand of the senators
heard the voice of terrible Gurdilo.

- Only an inferior humanity - shouted - may carry in their pockets like crap. Do not think
they have hard-Mountain Men, if they are in common sense, to acquire such contamination. This
should be just a habit, a bad habit of the giant that has been to
disturb us with his presence.

But an emerging public unrest deleted, imposing silence on the tribune.
Several men of force advanced on his shoulders a sort of square box
and very flat. It looked like silver, and on its upper surface was
recorded as a hieroglyph that adorned one end of the handkerchief.

Professor
Flimnap know what was inside this huge box. He had not believed allowed
to violate their confidentiality. The head of the mechanics of the
air fleet was there with several of his assistants to open the hood,
whose closure had studied all morning.

Slaves placed the box on the
ground vertically, while the engineer and his acolytes began to struggle
in the lock, to no avail. Inadvertently given a hammer an outgoing
edge made the two big silver valves be opened at once, as a giant
shell, launching a cash crunch. His eyes became narrower slits than ever.

"So. It dis way," he said, holding up a hand and indicating each finger as he proceeded to
make his points. "Black Fox--him angry. Much. Big soldier men come from north. They fight--very
fierce, an' tousands of 'em. They drive Indian back, back. Indian man everywhere kill. So.
They come. Chief him much angry. Him say, 'They come. But I kill all white men first.' So to-morrow
he burn the farm right up, an' kill everybody much dead."

"And the soldiers are near?"

The white man's words were coldly inquiring, but inwardly it was very different. A mighty hope
was surging through him. The awful suspense had for the moment dropped from his sickening heart,
and he felt like shouting aloud in his joy. The Indian saw nothing of this, however.

"Yes, they near. So. One sun."

Seth heard the news and remained silent. One day off! He could hardly realize it. He turned
away and scanned the horizon. Jim Crow grew impatient.

"An' the fi' dollar?"

There was something so unsophisticated in the man's rascality that Seth almost smiled. He turned
on him severely, however.

"You've been workin' with your countrymen, murderin' an' lootin', an' now you see the game's
up you come around to me, ready to sell 'em same as you'd sell us. Say, you're a durned skunk
of an Indian!"

"Jim Crow no Indian. I, Jim Crow, scout," the man retorted.

Seth eyed him.

"I see. You figger to git scoutin' agin when this is through. Say, you're wuss'n I thought.
You're wuss'n----"

He broke off, struck with a sudden thought. In a moment he had dropped his tone of severity.

"See, I'm goin' to hand you twenty dollars," he said, holding the other's shifty eyes with
his own steady gaze, "if you've a notion to earn 'em an' act squar'. Say, I ken trust you if
I pay you. You ain't like the white Injun, Nevil Steyne, who's bin Black Fox's wise man so
long. After he'd fixed the mischief he gits around to us an' turns on the Indians. He's fought
with us. An' he's goin' to fight with us to-morrow. He's a traitor to the Indians. You belong
to the whites, and you come to help us when you can. Now, see here. You're goin' to make north
hard as hell 'll let you, savee? An' if the soldiers git here at sundown to-morrow night, I'm
goin' to give you twenty dollars, and I'll see you're made head scout agin."

Seth waited for his answer. It came in a great tone of self-confidence.

"I, Jim Crow, make soldiers dis night. So."

"Good. You act squar'. You ain't no traitor to the white man, same as Nevil Steyne's traitor
to the Indian, which I guess Black Fox likely knows by this time."

"Yes. Black Fox know."

CHAPTER XXX

THE LAST STAND

Sunrise brought the alarm. The call to arms came in the midst of breakfast. But it came to
men who were discussing possibilities with smiling faces, and to women who were no longer held
silent by the dread of the last few days. For all had shared in Seth's news. And if ever words
were graven on the hearts of human beings, Seth's announcement, "Troops are comin' from the
north," would most certainly have been found inscribed on the hearts of the defenders of White
River Farm.

The attack began as the sun cleared the horizon, and continued all day. Like the first few
raindrops of a storm-shower the enemy's bullets hissed through the air or spattered upon the
buildings. Their long-range firing did little harm, for Indians are notoriously bad marksmen.

The sun mounted; the hours crept by. The attack was general, and each minute diminished the
enveloping circle. 

Soon comes disgust, irritation and stomach pains, be alive, uncomfortable heat, sensations of cold,
especially at rest, pain passengers at different points discomfort with throbbing headache,
drowsiness painful agitation during sleep, vomiting food, partial sweats, sadness and moodiness,
pale skin, decaying forces.

If the use of iron continues, the symptoms are more pronounced, there is cough, tightness, heaviness,
intervals headaches, diarrhea, swelling of the face, bleeding with
excitement blood stagnation, large general weakness.

What particular offering this statement is that the pains, which are dislacerantes and lancinating
appear or worsen at night and sitting down. Also be felt by the night need to move the painful areas or affected
by cramps, fever phenomena are also more pronounced at night.

The outdoors annoying and produces a sort of faintness with drowsiness, and no need to lie.

Observed in the abusers of iron, the workers who will work in populations served by ferruginous
springs, chronic diseases and we want to analyze offer the following symptoms: weakness throughout
the body paralyzed or from somewhere shaking, violent pains in the limbs, blockage of the abdominal
viscera, lientería, chronic diarrhea, hemorrhoids, varicose veins, chronic vomiting, pulmonary tuberculosis,
hemoptysis, various bleeding, suppression of menses, abortion, infertility,
impotence, jaundice, chlorosis; cachectic states where the hematosis
seems abolished and destroyed vital heat.

Here, then, a nervous, well-characterized blood and chronic, is it not a box symptom such as cachexia
and manifest themselves in the iron work effectively? And is not therefore wise to recognize
that can also be indicated in the period congestive blood, and therefore antipyretic, a condition
of this genre as well as in the period Dyscrasic last and, just as in the state are and asthenic?
Then the iron is a tonic, but an excellent and special medicine to
cure its elective action by relations with this or that disease.

When you want to fortify a weak person, it is not ill, and being his weakness the effect of the disease
or a symptom, it should cure the disease, because it heal the cause of weakness and to the same at
once. The drug is directed to a condition vital that healed, allowing the body to regain its
activity and strength; correct the condition, as food to sheer weakness. There are drugs that
can act as food reconstitutive drugs intended to return the body with chemicals that missing,
iron is one of these drugs in certain cases in which the blood lacks more or less of it. In this
issue of therapeutic agents include even some substances because still hesitate to a multitude
of cases, and whether or not a primary condition, essential dynamically cured, which would be
the cause of the diminution of the normal amount of iron in the body.

§ III .-- therapeutic effects.

= A. = chlorosis, anemia .-- That iron is a powerful generator of blood cells, no I doubt,
but it is also another important truth must be proclaimed to the just appreciation its therapeutic
effects, is that the iron tonic, called by Marcus contrast of chlorosis, is but the first in a series
of effects of this drug on the vitality of the organs, lymph node
innervation and the development of elements organics, which ultimately
in this series, corrupted and altered, affect weak and impotence.

Not concern us enter the discussion of theories that have been given about the nature of chlorosis.
We limit ourselves to enter the clinical observation, as esperimentacion pure, are in line to
prove that the iron work dynamically on bodies the hematosis, and
hence on the intimate constitution of this fluid, as part we will
continue trying to practice in this article.

Iron is also an alterative agent from the blood and humours, as the impoverished, and discolored
tissue, affecting the body to decay and decomposition, symptoms indicating the given iron
chlorosis, are: large muscle weakness, the only action to speak fatigue, need to be thrown, and suppression
of several erethism secretions, shortness of serous effusions and hydrops, except the swelling of
the feet and swelling Pale skin around the eyes, restless sleep, fatigue on awakening, oppression
of the Heart that prevents sleeping on her side, pulse small, the sound of steam in the heart and
great glasses, the slightest movement palpitations, tightness and constriction in the chest
at given moments morning sweat, acid, congestive movements in the head, pain in the same, especially
one side, curving increasing headache, alopecia, anxiety and throbbing in the epigastrium ringing
in the ears, eyes misty, earthy or dirty face, a pale or dark, ease congested and then switched
to the face, redness of the cheeks like a stain red skin that is pale, round, pale lips, dilated
nostrils to each expiration, anorexia, aversion to meat, regurgitation, nausea and vomiting acids
or food, farting, lientería, suppression of the rules or metrorrhagia, dry cough the morning
and after lunch, afternoon oppression, stomach cramps in the belly and chest, fingers of the
hands, lower legs and feet.

Cachexia chlorotic and anemic erethism has a nervous character that has its point starting in the
affection of the ganglion and nerves in the state of alteration of the functions Blood and
nutrients. No, no loss of blood or fluids, or serous or mucous flow. This distinguishes perfectly
machine iron, mercury, iodine, arsenic ....; no, not the glands lymph heart attacks or strokes
serous or flegmorragias. Chlorosis is indicated that iron, is characterized not by the noise
of bellows belonging to other anemias, but by the plethora and initial blood activity, the
lack of humoral or blood loss, and all other symptoms. The principles blood seem exhausted, the
body withers and kills still in full swing and freshness, the injury is dynamic and always was,
losses, finally, and bleeding only manifested in the period congestive and cachectic state,
and even if they have a passive character, always retain a seal congestive erethism, which is
typical of the action of the ferrous and its initial effect.

The exaggerated dose of iron in a highly dynamic disease, can at best relieve temporarily and actually give
this result, but the chlorosis is reproduced after the mitigation achieved with the medicinal abuse
also has its boundaries: states, in short, a sort of plethora Ereta with bleeding, especially
pulmonale, followed by tuberculosis or a wasting incurable anemic. If we remember the past, few
doctors will have to iron using stronger doses and with insistence, no serious accidents have
been replacing pulmonale these chlorosis reproduced by the treatment, who have not seen in
the same the expectoration bloody after use of ferruginous and have not seen him sick to the more chlorotic
than previously. This is one of the truths confessed naively by Mr. Trousseau, in spite of their
irreconcilable theories. These accidents are not covered up invoking the hypothesis of a change
of form of the disease or a mutual esclusione of chlorosis and tubers pulmonale, even with
preexisting tubers; are the effects of iron, that's all.

Drugs that have a more or less analogous to that of iron in the production
anemia, and treatment of this disease, we must indicate the sulfur,
cuttlefish, pulsatility, platinum, nux vomica, manganese, iodine,
arsenic, silica, mineral acids.

= B = Phthisis .-- Ha long since been advisable and iron used in phthisis, but with fatal results
and sad accidents, owing to the absence of detailed and at which
most physicians have abandoned him.

It was necessary for observation unite their clinical data to the esperimentacion in healthy
man, to allow some practical returning to the iron in the treatment of this serious disease.
Physiological symptoms and iron have been able to define ourselves in the disposition of individual
cases should combat advantage: These symptoms are represented by the gory accidents, product Iron
and abuse affecting the chest, but here are the main dry cough, spasmodic with constriction of the
chest, aggravated by movement, and that is more frequent afternoon and at night, accompanied
by expectoration of blood that increases the oppression, sputum striated blood, bloody or purulent
Espector that difficult, after access cough, then it is abundant, especially in the morning, fullness
and tightness, heat in chest burning gases rise to the trachea, stitches between the shoulder
blades, palpitations of heart, oppression more in the afternoon and after midnight, hoarseness,
anorexia, reluctance the flesh, warmth and drowsiness after eating, belching, vomituriciones,
constrictive spasm in the epigastrium, diarrhea, lientería, urine sediment bricks and tiles,
only to sleep supine, chill in the afternoon and general cold getting into bed, heat and excite
Blood, sweat at night and morning, which lasts until noon, produced least motion, and finally, dry
skin, dirty pale face, congestion in the head, redness of the cheeks, the conversation until the
excess fatigue, fainting sensation walking, ringing in the ears, epistaxis afternoon, cramps
in the calves and extremities, great fatigue, muscle weakness, heaviness of the limbs, emaciation, insuperable
desire lying down, feet cold, edema of the same, frequent pulse, hardly noticeable.

Dr. Muller, who has published a paper on the iron in pulmonary tuberculosis, confirmed pathogenetic
data and verified the abuse of the accidents, using hydrochloric iron at very weak in phthisis characterized
by symptoms and by these accidents, sitting addition, the following:

"I can not generally characterize the sphere of action of this medicine in phthisis, that saying is
especially useful in cases where doctors found him old contraindicated and dangerous. It especially
young people, lush, representing a passenger erethism vascular system or who are willing to congestion
in the chest and head.

"The special symptoms are easily agitated and burning caused by movements body and the moral emotions,
and as a natural consequence, palpitation, dyspnea, cough, redness Sudden cheeks, epistaxis,
hemoptysis, rapid fatigue, nervous excitability. In individuals This category is rare that
the iron does not act favorably.

"In its relations with the cachectic state, iron can be used to advantage in hectic fever, colliquative
in advanced tuberculosis (described above), since results from all
observations that this drug is indicated in two different states of
disease, in principle and in a very advanced.

"

This dual action treatment is not unique to iron belongs to all drugs as we have seen our readers,
which is a fact that our research have been patented both in the
ancient practice, as modern therapeutic applications, and that the
clinic is also in harmony with the physiological esperimentacion.

= C = Erethism blood, bleeding, mucus, headache, cachexia .-- The reader is not strange signs indicate
that we are left to the administration of iron in the cases of ESRD
blood in people irritable, nervous and sanguine temperament with hemorrhagic
Molimo local or general, or with active bleeding, particularly of
the lungs and womb and amenorrhea as ESRD.

Iron, in those cases, but indicated that chamomile and nux vomica, its action may be likened to that
of arnica in this circumstance, but these indications should be filled with dynamic dose weaker.

Iron, on the other hand, according to the symptoms already known, is excellent to combat amenorrhea
anemic, to excite the menstrual flow very weak or delayed cure hemoptysis metrorrhagia and anemia
with pallor, palpitations, edema.

Is indicated for chronic bronchitis, catarrh of the bladder, leucorrhoea with mucus or sero-purulent
abundant, when anemia precedes flows and is not caused by blood loss or humoral. Diarrhea is
usually indolent iron, but has often abrasions in the anus, his leukorrhea
is almost always an altered serum as the Lolium temulentum.

Sulfur and quinine are also the more analogous to the iron, again and affection. They like
him very effective in lientería the laurel-rose battle with good results. The iron has the
character of that erethism instructed in the proper constipation anemic people, just as in the
case of people that we spoke at the beginning of this paragraph.

Neuralgia own iron are all anemic and are characterized by general weakness, by pallor, and
congestive heart beats, and movements in the affected part, these are true toothache and rheumatic
pains in the head, which often compete healing quinine and juniper, and even sciatica and
tic douloureux ... offering the same characters.

Iron is used to great advantage in the course of treating a disease are, to absorb an excess of
irritability that is opposed to the responsiveness of the action of most suitable drug, also
filled the same indication in asthenic conditions and anemic dominated
by a large fiber excitability.

With this character should be presented the diathesis malaria and cachectic states to be relieved
by iron: in these states cachexia understand the abuse of quinine and opium. As for iron,
he be remedied with lime sulfur pulsatility, arsenic.

= Dose .=-- The first three iron grindings are often used to combat diathetic anemic conditions
that are indicated, the most high attenuation applied treatment of injuries of the sensitivity
and ESRD.

In the first case can be manage up to one gram per day in three doses, the second, just a drop
or a few cells steeped in the sixth or the Eighteenth attenuation in water clock. Water iron, Nancy
Bowling, iron tartrate species, various pills and lozenges ferruginous, are preferable to the
form pilule and administered in different doses.

But the most recommended preparation and we have designated the first, iron is treated by hydrogen,
and divided and weakened by successive crushing down milk sugar.

The iron as ferric chloride solution can be used to concentrate the
dose from one to twenty drops per day, is today the most used, and
often the most apropos.

We have nothing to say to exterior use as a hemostatic, it is one of the most effective, just
for example soak in this solution pure a piece of cotton and apply on a leech bite instantly
to stop severe bleeding in children or in people with anemia.

Graphite (GRAPHITE).

§ I. - History.

This mineral carbon, also called plumbago and percarburo iron (an iron hand and nine carbon)
is a new drug introduced in the medical field in 1812, and used successfully, the interior
and exterior, in dartros by Dr. Weinhold, who gave him published in a scholarly work. Its effectiveness
soon recommended him to the practical foreigners, and the same was not Hufeland contributed the
least to their practice. In France Marc who was called by this drug, but was unsuccessful. Hahnemann
was necessary [1] and several medical school, desiring to review the medical field and clarify
its numerous agents with pure esperimentacion data, publish the result of their trials and numerous
clinical facts so that we know. Undertake their study with the hope of being useful to doctors, informing
them of a powerful and very despised in a multitude of conditions
rebels, particularly in scrofula and dartros.

Physiological effects .-- § II.

Graphite has obviously an elective action on the skin system on the one hand, and the vein on
the other: the two systems, ie, venous and lymphatic elements are the centers and the nerve ganglion
is the direct agent.

The following characters sufficiently established differences in their
action of the charcoal, the throbbing, carbonate of lime, barite,
sulfur though ....., graphite have, with most of them, common characters,
these are great sensibility the cold, diminution of organic contractility,
alteration of nutrition deep, action slow to develop from a series
of effects that tend to fatigue more evenly.

The graphite does not direct its action and the heart, or brain in a direct or active; flegmásico
is non-essential or nervous, his febrile phenomena diathesis; represent a slow fever with remission afternoon
or at night, the cold and the chills subside; the heat is dry, burning in the extremities, but is not
fixed or lasting, sweat is mainly matutinal nocturnal, occurs or
is aggravated by movement and less strain on the mind; is foul, especially
when the result of accidental causes.

All indications of this remedy fatigue, lack of contractility of blood vessels venous and lymphatic
vessels. Hot flashes and many fast movements and congestive vague observed in the head, chest, belly,
limbs, and also a feeling burning burning to give some consistency
to the essentially passive venous congestion of this drug.

"Guess you're goin' to quit this farm," he said, calmly, but in a manner which compelled his
prisoner's attention. "I've thought a heap, an' that's how I've got figgerin'. You're goin'
to quit this night. That is ef you're so minded."

He paused, but his grave eyes still surveyed the ungainly form, still stared coldly into the
lean unshaven face, into the shifty pale eyes. Nevil made no response. He knew instinctively
that this was only a prelude to more that was to follow.

Parker watched Seth. In a measure he was mystified, for the plainsman had never given him his
full confidence with regard to Nevil. He suspected a lot, but that was all.

"Guess I don't need to tell you a deal about yourself," Seth went on presently. "I'll just
mention that Nevil Steyne ain't your real name, an' it wouldn't take me guessin' long to locate
the other. That's as mebbe. You're a skunk," he proceeded, without raising his voice. "You're
wuss'n a yaller dawg, but even a yaller dawg mostly has an option. That's how it is wi' you,
seein' you're o' that breed. I ain't no feelin' o' mercy for you anyways, but I'll give you
a chance. Ef you stay right here ther's the courts as 'll hang you sure; ef you quit, ther's
the Injuns as you've lived by, an' as you fooled to suit your own dirty schemes. I don't see
as ther's a great choice for you. Your game's played, an' you're goin' to cash in, an' it kind
o' seems to me you've got to pay anyways. Wal, you'll choose right now."

Nevil had sat up while the other was speaking. He gave no outward sign beyond that one movement.
Now he slowly rose to his feet and looked down upon the set face of the arbiter of his fate
a little uncertainly. He turned from him to the Agent, who was looking on in no little puzzlement.
Then his eyes came back to the relentless face of Seth, and he seemed to be struggling to penetrate
the sphinx-like expression he beheld.

He scented danger, he knew there was danger. But even so his mind was made up. He would not
face the jury of his white brothers. He believed he understood the Indians, and saw chances
in this direction. But there was the wonder why Seth had given him the chance. He had no time
to debate the question. His answer was needed.

"I'll go back to the Indians," he said, with a hateful laugh, in which there was no semblance
of mirth. "As you suggest, a yellow dog can always run for it."

"Jest so. It ken allus run."

Then the full bitterness of his position swept over the renegade, and a deep rage stirred the
hatred he held for this man who had outwitted him at every turn, and now was in a position
to pronounce sentence upon him. And his words came low with concentrated fury.

"Yes, blast you, you can sneer! But I tell you you're making a mistake. I can twist the Indians
around my finger. Bah, I care nothing for them! I shall get clear and save myself, and, as
sure as there's a hell for the damned, you shall pay!"

But the man he addressed remained undisturbed. His manner was imperturbable. He nodded gravely.

"Good," he said. "Now git--git quick!"

And the man who posed as Nevil Steyne passed out of the hut and out of the fort, urged almost
to precipitancy by the suggestion of Seth's final command.

After his going silence reigned in the little corn shed. Parker had a hundred questions to
ask, but none of them came readily to his lips in face of his companion's silence. I do not add up neither man nor employment.

- You do well, my friend,
that honors him.

- No, Don Benito, and I honor or dishonor me, do
not do a quixotic, and would be entitled to it.

Don Eleazar has been good to me, I religiously paid my salary and
has had the good sense not to impose their business.

- What are you
doing?

- Do not know, but tomorrow I'll know.

Since then have you in my room: we must part!

- Separate Us?

Never! - I answered the old man craning his noble head and accompanying
his words with a strong signal that denoted a deep feeling that had
caused my resolution .-- Separate Us?

Never! - I repeat - look, July ... Look, my son - said, - let me
tute you, my gray hairs I am entitled to do so, is it true?

And as a sign I did so, continued shaky

- I have observed to date the resolution of your uncle, but I must
confess that I have suffered the see you at Don Eleazar.

Such use does not love you, and I do not understand is how Ramon has placed you there ...

- My aunt, you know ...

- Yes, that governs like a spin, but that is no reason for you to neglect. Look - I said, - today
I'll take care of you. What the hell! I am old, but I have a young soul yet: I'll be your father
and your brother at the same time. I have a bad reputation in the world: women misia Medea hate
me because I do not believe in political gods, and men like Don Eleazar also I can go, because I
can not do business that they do. We will live together, from when then hear in my room a woman's
voice ... What you want! ... I am a man ... súfreme these aberrations. Women drive me crazy,
so I had the good sense not to go crazy for one: I've gone mad for all and I'm not married with
any, I hope not into temptation to do so in the years that I have. I'm smiling, carefree and frank
live without mysteries I take life as it is. Back in my youth I read a lot, but I was reading
one advantage of all that I have done: there is next to the bedside: Rabelais.

When you're my age and you run the world, you'll see he was right: it is the only book help them
to die, so I despise the Jesuits. I have no children, or rather, not I know if I have, because
if they knew for sure, do not deny a father, but doubt, you well know that it is better to
abstain, for it to take as their own works others, is a minor. And I fled the mostly ridiculous.
I have no friends of my age: my friends are young people of yours, I live with them, fall
in love with them and scandalized this room also with them in Buenos Aires there are many beautiful
women and so stupid that the leads.

And at the end, Don Benito wrung me in his arms and against his chest, and I do not I could
hold back the tears that sprang to my eyes.

The next day I showed up at the Don Eleazar, tomorrow. The courtyard was crowded they whispered
and gesticulated with animation: Desktop doors closed. I went and hit the glass: to open up
Don Anselmo, who recognized me, two or three people patio door fell
upon the desk with the intention of entering.

- Excuse me, can not
you go ...-- Anselmo said, and gave almost the door in his face.

And I could see that one of them raised his fist in a threatening manner.

In two words don Anselmo realized my decision to leave the house.

-
Well, well, have you also been bitten by the tarantula?

- I do not
bitten any tarantula, nor I, nor I have nothing to do with those who
protest outside or against those who shut themselves in, I come to
thank Don Eleazar the honor has already made me tell my resolution.

Can I do you advertise?

- If you can not receive you ...-- Anselmo said, shaking his head.

- See if you can ... I want to fulfill what I consider a must.

Don Anselmo went on to the next room, which was that of Don Eleazar,
and after a while back.

- Don Eleazar says that can happen - he said.

I went resolutely. I will never forget the picture presented to my sight. Almost in the middle
of the room, next to a very high desk, where Mr. Anselmo used to written under the dictation of
Mr. Eleazar, skeleton sitting on a chair, was it, breakfasting in front of a table little bigger
than the dish I ate. A servant served non-stop Galician dish after dish, and Don Eleazar ate to
the severity of a bear who devours his ration.

In a corner of the room, standing, three men witnessed this collation
morning in complete silence.

- Between you, Don Julio, "We also leave
you in the days of trial?

...

I explained the reasons for my resignation, trying to convince him
that she was completely foreign trade to the recent disaster, but
Don Eleazar, moved, despite the appetite devouring their meats, it
was contrived to lament with words that broke their heart.

- Well,
young man, since you solved it, Let us part, but you will do me some
justice day ... You see the situation that I am reduced!

I lost everything! From now live the love of my family, yes, sir, charity of the family ... Here
you have me prisoner, I caught in this country who have lavished benefits! Do not you see, sir,
that even authority is plotting against me! You see, sir, all those men who come the glass
and threatening me, are completely unknown to me! I have never had dealings with them! I do
not know! And follow me, sir, follow me to death! You see a I'm small! A not to eat these snacks
at home, they are even able to poison! And if not for my faithful John (exclaimed looking expressively
Galician that served lunch), if not for him, who knows what would have happened to me!

But I will reward you someday ... you know that everything I lost, I have nothing that therefore
I can not fulfill my commitments! Say, John, at all, it is possible
than you might think you are!

... Say you, Young, secure, you know my business, all are clear, as public as legitimate! ...
You know, gentlemen ... I have been a victim of people (adding faced with Don Anselmo answered
with an affirmative sign) without law and principles! ... You know, Don Anselmo, you know all my
business, she knows my house! ... I can not meet, and do not feel much for me, but so wonderful person
who I have to injure, against all my feelings! ... You see, you see how threatening these men! It
I believe I stayed with some of them! ... Thanks, John, thank you, my son, pour me tea, I have no
appetite! ... Try it yourself first, see if you have bad taste! ... Ah, gentlemen, I have a conscience!
...

And while Don Eleazar complained, all I heard in silence, as appalled by the horrible disaster
of that providential man who swallowed like a shark, in the midst
of catastrophe of his fortune.

FUEM necessary to cut a blow that eternal farewell elegy and forever from that den that had
been eight months.

What is wrong with the world!

Upon leaving the creditors of the courtyard that the foaming mouth, said Don Eleazar had made
five hundred thousand dollars of profit and that they lived on the street. Who could believe
it?

XI

Strictly wearing ties in white, with a fraction of Poole and a pair of pumps by Thomas, Don Benito
penetrated one night in my room, elegant young as a boy of twenty years.

I dressed slowly, that night I made my debut at the club. The club! ... It is not necessary say it
is the Progress Club of which I speak, and that dance is a dance
perspective July: the great attraction of the season in Buenos Aires.

-
Are you still in that state told me I ?...-- complicated preparations
for his shirt - is one almost!

...

- Ah!

What do you think?

Is serious prepare a shirt ... I remember you opening.

- Ca! an elegant man is not made, born ... Look at me - I said - Picture
in the middle of room.

- Well, be patient, I'm not you ... I'm not
smart ...

- Yes, but you Blanquita block, right?

... And I guess you tend to come on as a woo, look who is a woman
so loose and light as the mother ... and I want to know.

- Do not
kid with Whitey, and I know that White block and I have a girlfriend
...

- Okay, marry it, but it falls to ... Do not be silly ...

-
What if my advice?

- Do not!

The mother loves you and the mother is the protector of that child.

-
Oh! Fernanda known me lad was twenty years old when I was ten or twelve
but the daughter ...

- The daughter is like the mother, both are
women of courage and breakdown, pretty as a dove and dangerous as
two wolves.

- Tonight will be radiant, are the queens of the dance,
Mr. Montifiori will shine his legation vacancy.

- Montifiori!

... What kind of man is Montifiori? ...

- I'll tell you later ... go, tie the tie soon.

- Will right?

Very big the bow, right? ...

- No, it is well, women do not look at it, the neck of men are indifferent. Well, put on your
coat, excellent!

You're a lord. If I had your body and your years and you my experience!

...

- Always the old proverb, Don Benito! ... Ah! nothing is complete in the world.

I wandered through my room, I took my gloves, put the half-light gas
and left me and my old partner.

It was cold all the devils, but Coupe Don Benito was at the door;
lock ourselves into it and started to slide on the rails of the tramway
to everyday use.

In five minutes we were on the block from Club del Progreso, we had to wait a few minutes more
so that you come to our carriage approaching the turn, and finally got off at the door among
a group of men and women coming up the stairs softly upholstered hastily and adorned with flowers
and green wreaths.

Who does not know the Club for a night of dancing? The entrance is certainly no input Elysee Palace
and the ladder is not a marvel of architecture.

However, for the old Buenos Aires who has never left Buenos Aires, or the young provincial
who just arrived from the province, the Club is or was at one time, something like a dream mansion
whose chronicle is full of prestigious romances and which is not as penetrating to all mortals.

Don
Benito knew the house from its foundation and enjoyed it a unique
influence.

Al come, young and old greeted him affectionately as an old friend.

The good old, putting his left arm back, took me to the glass booth where we took the overcoats and
we consulted a moment the figure on the mirrors.

    At that time the orchestra played the last part of the gangs of Carmen
...

Toreador, en garde toreador ...

and Bizet's music is saturated,
so to speak, in the very blood of Merimee, distributed the body of
the women who made the paintings, the warm tones that the young master
been rhyme that strange love poem commoners and low revenge.

The lounge, hybrid, where the refined taste of a clubman race would
have much to scratch, disappear before the compact mass of men and
women who filled.

My old friend gave me his arm and together we take our place at the Buenos Aires bouquet that way
every year in July with the accuracy with which they celebrated an anniversary.

It is a dance club where Progress can be studied in stages thirty years of Buenos Aires social
life: there have made their first steps by today's grandparents. The gilded youth of 52 years
founded the center of good tone, mainly Creole, which has not nor ever had the distinction aristocratic
English club or one of the chic clubs Paris. However, being of the Club del Progreso, even back
in 70, was chic, as was be corny Club del Plata, with forgiveness
after their partners.

The entrance was something hard, did not enter either: he had to be the best whipped cream social
and political bourgeoisie to tread the soft carpets of the great
room or sit play a game of whist in the classic games of the portraits
is at the forefront of the street Victoria.

In this last room, long and cold as a vestibule, which has been papered it a hundred times less
than green or light blue and has spent fifty different items casings what's Iturriaga, born a generation
which are being very few representatives. There has bitten the urban gossip revelers players,
husbands skulls a dissolute and dissipated youth, and every bite of indignant mom has made
havoc of smallpox in the moral portrait of the victims. The slander of the large village is like slander
of the Barber of Seville: the passing of Hurricane VENTICELL and
woe to him who is involved in the blast!

The Progress Club has been the pepinera of many public men who have studied in their Banquet
constitutional law, literature easy to learn without books, burn the midnight lamp on a chess
table, and I do not know why, it strikes me that some of the portraits May the men who witness
this group of thinkers, makes a face every time a chicken accompanied
by a discourse on freedom of suffrage with a blow that sits on the
checkerboard a queen check by the mob of survivors pawns!

Missing father's portrait there Castañeda! And above all, lack the spirit! Also twenty thirty years,
to do the same!

Until recently, the library was not very heavy so to speak. Many memory, much Register Official on
condition of not being ever when asked, and at the table reading Buenos Aires all day, empty
and sterile as sheets of a nun, wearing article editorial front, long lead track, in order to
avail myself of a biblical figure, fatigue horses of the imagination. At the table reading
the Illustrated London and New Revue (Would be almost useless to add des Deux Mondes, if not
to talk in the club), the Revue in which M. of Mazade Article bourgeois occurs at a time and Lanfrey
Forcade signed and some French newspapers almost always serve as decoration, as these branches
dry rot in forgotten rooms for servants. Despite this, anyone would think it reads ... None of that!
There he speaks: in the group of kids happy and spiritual, which falls at 12 pm, repeating the last
note of Tamagno, not missing a copy of dense bourgeois gargantuan, gourmet night owl, fattened
and enriched by the free womb of his cows that right there made to serve a sausage per night, while
the deep disdain Gross happy, sloppy dress, stripped to the ill-content, look what surrounds
you with a satisfied apathy, putting his hand to blackish hair and
dander that dredging inert mollera with the sharp nail of the index.

Not lacking either the village idiot, Magin decomposed, the candidate of crooks, victim village
jokes, crazy ideas about philanthropy, gasping with admiration and
blinking with one eye palsy suffering from intermittent, while the
pupil of another comes out as the pit of a peach Prisco.

Neither Tenorio suburb that does not change, that is seen today as
yesterday, with beads altar and fixed-price items, healthy, tame,
inoffensive, good and forgotten mortified by those who still believe
that it is fashionable to censure or ridicule of the innocent.

And between this company and colorless Hybrid Memory of a minister, my friend Don Benito, purge and
noble whose honesty is confounded by the contemporary positivism sleep a dreamer, he would
suddenly explode with noble sarcasm, probably feeling how sterile
have been the misfortunes of the past and how fate has dealt unfairly
favors its in the present.

But the club is the club that night, violins, laughing under the bowstrings, conveyed the joy
and excitement of music unique to every face.

Standing in front of the door that leads to the grand staircase from the dining room, I followed
the flight coiled couples impelled by the hot breath of a waltz by Metra. I do not know why these
fascinating waltzes, compliments and undulating phrases that seem
drawn into the ether magic baton by the teacher, gave me a deep melancholy,
bringing me to remember Hugo verses that provides, through the windows
fogged by the cold of the night, the body of his beloved bound by
the arm of an opponent happy.

But several show!

Much ideal and attractive woman under the loving story of these modern
fabrics, accomplices meat and contour this materialistic century woven
with bird wings or petals exotic flowers!

How disgusting to be grotesque ugliness of painful stunting, jumping
graceless, marking shrill note of ridicule!

What a contrast!

How many foreign faces, necks hanged for outdated, wearing ties satin
dove, Byzantine enfracada with trousers in the form of pipe and boorish
Brazilian booty!

How old cock free picks, struggling against time in vain, with weak
arms the unguents!

How to be tasteless, gasping and withering satisfied with your treatment unbearable so many beautiful
and reckless woman seeking without finding your ideal!

Mom much flattened at the people passing, serving on the sofas Cairn Lamp cream!

How tolerant husband who gives his woman hawks claw and is in the buffet with the practicality
of a believer!

How old fool, dying from head to toe, turned on a page, who reeks of mint from further and install
their claims intolerable to any beautiful woman, so that will curdle
the tasty world renowned lucky!

How happy boy and philosopher, chickens the village, who know the village and taking the game
with the good humor of the disbelievers!

The dance was at its height, when I heard about a whisper.

Two women in the big world entered the room and couples parted to give way. Don Benito accompanied
a of them, and the other against the strictest rule of our rooms,
walking alone on the side.

Don Benito came straight to where I was talking to a group of friends.

- Julio! - Told me with the most perfect and aristocratic manners: - Fernanda! - And turning around and
pointing to the youngest, he repeated, as any presentation: - White!

I leaned revere and look up, I tuck my partner eighteen years has theater! ...

- I think we are old friends - Fernanda told me .-- And as if to reassure, Added: - But you're
a man!

- Lady ... Miss !....

And a fine view of Don Benito, almost imperceptible, I extended my arm and White hung him with
a frank and sweet abandon.

Could not be more like a portrait Fernanda.

For me, White was a true resurrection the past, the same apparent coldness of the mother, the
same pale almost matt the great Fernanda and shaded eyes, and a bust that exposed a cleavage
in which a preponderance nerves over meat. Finally, an arm that could be a bit long, but, under Thin,
loose suede glove, I did not know what voluptuous charm, a thousand times more attic pure than
revealing a well-shod foot covered by a dark silk stocking.

The white dress was an antithesis to his serene pale: a short skirt of silk tulle tan, strong, determined
as a mysterious lines tracing the body, leaving see under the hem satin shoe the same color,
very low cut, which appeared the most beautiful and attractive woman's
foot.

An enclosed fire velvet gown just the mystery of his chest, leaving guess bold lines of her breasts
high and upright like the Venus de Milo. In the two head gold combs held blameless simplicity
kill her blond hair, and beyond the numerous bracelets chains around
his arms, not a single jewel, not one flower, not a single ornament,
looked at the woman.

- What a splendid waltz! - I said - let's dance,
I can not resist ...

The close liaison and imagination had to bring
me, like a breeze at that time, the Fernanda sweet perfume.

White rested his cheek on my shoulder, the spring contact her breasts
shook my chest, take her hand tightly around her waist and flexible
and admirable lewd dancing took away in his whirlwind.

Danced like a white old English strain, without reservation, but
without the crass materialism of a mundane, from time to time, undulating
ups and downs of the waltz in which the bodies glide with the music,
we joined involuntarily and I felt this thrill inexplicable that produces
the struggle of the timidity with boldness, when the body of a young
and beautiful touches and calcined clay this miserable human they
are made of all beings from Satan to San Antonio.

The waltz came to an end, my companion had given me completely. In
sickness their last turns intoxicating, discerned the face of Don
Benito, Fernanda arm We watched with a smile Mephistophelian at the
time that the echo of the violins was extinguished, White tired and
fell voluptuously on a sofa caught her and swung a moment in their
springs and elastic flexible.

- But You waltz like no ... I could
not waltz to another after waltz with you.

- Well, Miss, the bill
is very simple, all dancing the waltz ...

- Oh! What commitments
?...-- I said a little smugly arrogant.

- It's simple: the viola
you - I replied with the same tone.

- I block! "Seth's real honest, an'--an', far be it for me to
say it, he's consequent a foolhead. What's dollars when folks love? Pshaw! me an' Rube didn't
think o' no dollars."

"Guess we hadn't no dollars to think of, Ma," murmured Rube in a ponderous aside.

"Wal? An' if we had?" Ma smiled defiantly at her "old man."

"Wal, mebbe we'd 'a' tho't of 'em."

The farmwife turned away in pretended disgust.

"And you don't think anything will come of it?" suggested Mrs. Rickards, taking the opportunity
of returning to the matter under discussion.

Ma's eyes twinkled.

"Ther' ain't no sayin'," she said. "Mebbe it's best left to Rosie." She glanced again at her
sick husband. "Y' see, men mostly has notions, an' some are ter'ble slow. But they're all li'ble
to act jest so, ef the woman's the right sort. Guess it ain't no use in old folks figgerin'
out fer young folks. The only figgerin' that counts is what they do fer themselves."

"I believe you're right," responded Mrs. Rickards, wondering where the farmwife had acquired
her fund of worldly wisdom. Ma's gentle shrewdness overshadowed any knowledge she had acquired
living the ordinary social life that had been hers in England.

Ma's worldly wisdom, however, was all on the surface. She knew Seth, and she knew Rosebud.
She had watched their lives with loving eyes, prompted by a great depth of sympathy. And all
she had seen had taught her that both were capable of managing their own affairs, and, for
the rest, her optimism induced the belief that all would come right in the end. And it was
out of this belief she reassured her new-made friend.

Meanwhile the little blind god was carrying on his campaign with all the cunning and crushing
strategy for which he is justly renowned. There is no power such as his in all the world. What
he sets out to do he accomplishes with a blissful disregard for circumstances. Where obstacles
refuse to melt at his advance, he adopts the less comfortable, but none the less effective,
manner of breaking through them. And perhaps he saw the necessity of some such course in the
case of Seth and Rosebud. Anyway, he was not beaten yet.

The last of the refugees had left the farm. Seth had been assisting in the departure of the
various families. It was a sad day's work, and no one realized the pathos of it more than the
silent plainsman. He had given his little all to the general welfare, but he had been incapable
of saving the homes that had been built up with so much self-denial, so much thrift. All he
could do was to wish the departing folk Godspeed with an accompaniment of cheery words, which,
perhaps, may have helped to lighten the burden of some of them. The burden he knew was a heavy
one in all cases, but heavier in some than others, for Death had claimed his toll, and at such
a time the tax fell doubly heavy.

It was over. He had just seen the last wagon drop below the horizon. Now he turned away with
a sigh and surveyed the ruin around him. He walked from place to place, inspecting each outbuilding
with a measuring eye. "Lemon and milk!" In the open spaces of walkers played the bull rogues.
The kids burned Chinese firecrackers and rockets, and all was bustle and confusion. Not far
from me a superabundant old fry their donuts plasticity. The thin membrane, white, very smooth,
was within minutes of the knee buñolera of the napkin nivea, a boiling pan, butter screaming to
take over the mass, which is fluffy in thousand vials, and soon left the donut inviting and tempting,
but dismissing some cloying fragrance.

From time to time, a rocket start tearing up the air, burst into the heights, and burst into jets
of fire, white lights, green, red, glazing with national colors the dark sky. Thundered in
the court the shooting Morterero Marquesas busting bomb, lit up with lightning-fast and clear,
dome and tower.

- Here, Rodolfo! - "Miss me from the lamp .-- You see how beautiful collection.

And I was twenty or thirty watercolors, flowers, fruits and birds,
painted masterfully.

Gabriela never saw more beautiful! Gallant wore a blue suit, a faded blue, pale the color of the sky
on a fall morning.

- We will put in that window. Leave the other for Pepillo so much fun with these things ....

I
repeat, never seemed more beautiful blonde lady.

When looked at in light of the lamp I saw and wrapped in a golden atmosphere. All my projects
came to earth passion asleep woke up panting, and the image of Linilla
present so far in my memory, suddenly vanished in the darkness of
oblivion.

I felt no strength to the Gabriela beauty, defeated, overwhelmed.

- Very cool wind blows ... rare thing in this month.

Surely it has rained in the mountains .... Are not you cold? I do. Is it because I'm very nervous.
I'll get a coat.

He went to the bedroom.

My eyes followed .... Soon came wrapped in a shawl very wide, Plush silk purple.

- You see - he said, sitting in a rocking chair - close to the castle
we ....

At that moment in front of us rose to fifty feet from the
sidewalk, a tree fire the main piece, which was greeted by jubilant
rogues with shouting.

The disciples of flats returned to the fray with festive polka, 'Harlequin',
much in vogue in the fall of the Empire and popularized by the famous
musicians of the Austrian Legion.

- I wanted to talk to you, Rodolfo.

I have to tell many things I have to give very happy news ....

-
Joyful news?

- Yes, very happy ....

- Let's see what they are.

-
Does not deserve you, my friend, I trust those of my heart.

No, certainly not! You have not been frank with me. Linilla thought you and loved each other,
and I said, I wanted to you had me a friend, a sister who would tell you their joys and sorrows
.... And you, Rodolfo, I told the truth ....

- Well, - he went happily - I do not pay in the same currency. I know that love, true love is shy
and modest, who does not like revealing secrets, that strives to live in hiding .... You deserve apology!
But I also know that when we love, when love and I know love is need to talk with one of the
beloved. It is understood that one who knows feel like us. I had dreamed it would be good friends
.... You would confident of my sad love, I love the adventurous you. But the gentleman Rodolfo
did not have confidence, Gabriela, Gabriela the poor who loved and was not happy. And I said
to myself: Happy Linilla! Loves and is loved! ...

In principle, the fires that time. Neither Gabriel nor I returned his face to the street. They
burned tires and wheels, thundered the Marquesas, colorful fireworks flew into the air, and
We did not look anything.

Gabriel continued:

- Tell me .... Is not it true that you're in love with Linilla?

I could not utter a word.

- Is not it true that you love each other? Answer me, Rudolph!

- Listen to me before, Gabriela, such happy news with you so happy.

-
Oh, - burst the beautiful lady, illuminated by multicolored lights
reflections Bengal .-- So glad !.... I want you to share my happiness!

Gabriela sensed what was going to say.

As an invisible being whispered into my ears.

Narrowed eyes, dazzled by the general fire tree fire, and through
the red spot perceived hurt my eyes, I thought I saw Angelina's face
pale and tearful.

- Tell me, I said very quietly Gabriela ...-- ....

-
I wrote!

I wrote! A very tender letter, a very heartfelt letter!

- Who?

- Ernesto.

- Yes?

- Does it surprise you?

- No ... but not expected. The resolution of you ... the wishes of Don Carlos ....

- My father will transfer .... As for me .... I am a woman, that is, I am weak. Ernesto loves
me, I'm sure of it! ... Now I write, begging my forgiveness. Begs, pleads, and I can not despise
because I love him .... Much a woman can .... I will kill you in the heart of fatal passion
Ernesto ... I will be your guardian angel ... and when I see you regenerated, if it no longer forever
that horrible vice ... Give you my hand!

They say I'm beautiful, they say I'm intelligent, I'm kind .... Well, all these qualities will
serve to redeem me .... Do you approve my thoughts?

- And if you
do not get what has been proposed?

- So .... Then I'll love him like
now!

If it's my first love, my only love!

The poor lady looked down, and was thoughtful and silent.

Entered through a window flood of light, and stay, almost dark, lit with melancholy moonlight.
The fireworks were over. Boot hundreds of rockets, fired at once, leaving the atrium. Stood,
laying on the giant space curves, thundered overhead, and explosion flowed streams of gold
dust, hundreds of lights that resembled descending a shower of stones.

The brass band was playing the National Anthem released.

Gabriela Domino his dejection, and said quietly, with stealth expressive accent:

- Today I said to Ernest. Dad ignores it, just you know .... Tell me, Rodolfo: Does Angelina you well,
as I want to Ernesto?

- Yes.

- "And she loves you?

- Yes, very much!

I do not deserve it!

- Well, my friend, are you worthy of it!

The party was over, the crowd dispersed, and the circles of Don Carlos out looking for ladies
to say goodbye.

Half an hour later I was in my house.

I locked myself in my room and wrote very long letter. Ay! A letter that never reached Angelina.

LXI

At
seven, tired of waiting for my aunt Pepilla, I sat at the table.
Jane was quick to serve.

In those moments came the old woman.

- Oh, Rorra! What will you say to me! But, son of my soul, what mass so long! Have you had breakfast?
No? Well here's companion .... Come on, Jane, suddenly prontito,
see you have Rorra go!

...

Pepilla aunt put at one end of the table the book and the rosary, and taking off her shawl threw
himself on the back of a chair.

- Are you going today?

- Yes, aunt, then we end.

There on my desk is a letter to Linilla.

You send it to who comes from San Sebastian.

Today or tomorrow will come the boy ....

- If you saw, Rorra, -
said my aunt hastily - I already coming into care.

Ago more than two weeks that we have no news of Angelina. Before ... Go! ... Holy Week ... Guests
then ... but now ... Castro Pérez girls came from anti .... Why not
write to them?

- Thus would no longer boring!

- Maybe .... Would
you like butter?

Joan, you bring the butter!

I will write this afternoon, so if anyone comes not have to wait .... Then I have to go to
the races.

- Listen, Aunt: If Angelina writes, as you know, then lueguito, I
sent you, the letter.

Mauricio tell you to go through here every day.

- Well!

I will send him clothes.

Mauritius has the face of this good boy.

How friendly! How well spoken!

The aunt was released chatting happily.

I was very happy, very happy.

What fun, Rorra, how nice!

Nothing to deal with the kids .... From the first day I relax ....
I have children already here!

For that Angelina! ... Same as care for a sick! ... I've already said, Rorra, if Angelina does
not marry a sister has to stop of Charity. Its aim, son, is calling!

The other day I told the P. Solis and I said, 'You're right!

"

- Go with you and the P. Solis!

Angelina nun? God forbid! Linilla be wife and mother ....

The old woman looked at me intently, and smiling, he said:

- Would you marry Linilla?

- From all my heart!

- That marriage would be very much to my taste.

They say, but I do not think so, you're in love Gabriela ....

- No, aunt!

You know people say how it happens ....

- For better, child, the better!

I'm very fond of Linilla!

... Gabriela is very elegant, very nice, very rich, how you want!
but where is Angelina ....

It was necessary to leave.

- Well, Aunt
...-- said getting up - it's time, horse riding ....

- Do not say
goodbye to your godmother?

- Yes, why not!

We went to the bedroom.

Aunt Carmen was near the bed, sit-in his chair.

I was laughing and loving.

- Have you leave?

- Yes, Aunt ... I arrive early.

I never saw her more pale and weak, barely heard what he said was almost complete paralysis.
The poor old woman had an arm motionless and fingers contracted.

Extremity had lower strength, the feet were swollen.

- Rorra: - exclaimed Aunt Pepilla - tell your sponsor that you recommended
the doctor.

- Yes, aunt, exercise, plenty of exercise, even around
the room every day, a lap one, godmother!

That being so, sitting, sitting all day, can not be good ...

- But ... if ... I can not! - muttered.

- An effort ....

Aunt Pepa waved me that I saw the feet of the patient.

The was so swollen barely fit into the slippers.

- Right, godmother, you will do everything you send the doctor? -
I said yes, moving head.

- Are not you take drugs?

He smiled and gave a nod .-- Aunt Pepilla eyes were wet. I approached, and kneeling beside
the chair I wanted to hug the old lady.

- Farewell, Auntie! I will come next week.

- Well ... good! - said with great difficulty, and a voice so weak that hardly heard Want .--
God will find me alive! I'm very bad ... but ... Sarmiento neither this nor want to believe.

-
No aunt! - Burst out laughing .-- Are you nervous, why are you so weak ....

- Go ... go, - he said, smiling painfully - give me a hug ....

When I got up and leaned over to kiss her forehead, I saw that the
pale cheeks of the patient two tears rolled two tears of those who
in the face of a corpse appear drops of dew in the bosom of a white
rose.

I left the room with a broken heart.

Aunt Pepa I was silent and downcast ....

Finally he spoke:

- What do you say that?

- Nothing, aunt, that if I had my ... I would not leave me! ...

- When you go back?

- On Sunday .... Ask license.

- Yes, yes, come .... Behold, I stand alone, all alone! ...

- Tell Andrew you come every night ....

- Be sure to come on Sunday!

- I'll be here.

I did not go without talking to Sarmiento. I found him at home.

- Oh, boy .... Have courage! ... Trust in me .... If something seems I have serious, take to
let you know ... I do not want to live deceived .... All things come to an end .... The overall
condition of your aunt is bad, very bad, but again, for now there
is no fear .... Later, any day .... Finally .... God will tell!

Go with God.

Passing talked to Andrew.
- Do not worry, young master. I'll come every night .... Go quiet
.... Last night I was with your aunt and was very happy.

And took
the road to the ranch. The heart was telling me that Aunt Carmen did
not live long .... Seven years of disease! It's about time! ...

LXII

I
dared not ask permission to go to Villaverde, although the news was
received that afternoon not good. Aunt Carmen had very slight fever.
A cold, by way of doctor, and nothing else. However, I was not alone.

We
work on the desktop until eight at night, and sit at the table, I
said Don Carlos:

- Tomorrow, after church, you write those letters,
and in the afternoon we liquidation that. Gabriela want some sheet
music. I say they are on the piano, you pick them up and send them.
There on the table is the list ....

We dined happily. Mr. Fernandez
was in a good mood, and chatted over lunch to taste of the festival
of Villaverde. Then she talked about farm work and the works of railroad.

-
Is to feel, - he said - that the railroad does not pass through Villaverde.
Will be the city Pluviosilla to get more out. In its waters and its
rivers have a source of wealth .... How many factories have now? A
.... For twenty years now and you'll see! ... It would be appropriate
acquire land in Pluviosilla, particularly near rivers .... Within
a few years have to be worth twice what it now costs. Pluviosilla
will not be doubted, the first manufacturing city of the State and
the Republic ....

The servants had already withdrawn. Mauricio appeared
suddenly in the dining room saying someone looking for me.

- Me?
- Asked startled.

- Yes, bring a letter ....

- Who comes?

- I do
not know.

I got up hastily in search of the unknown. I had two letters:
one of Linilla and another of Aunt Pepa. I ran to read.

- What? -
Asked Don Carlos .-- Some care?

I opened the statement. Contained
only a few lines.

"Carmen is very serious. And the doctor sent him
to have and receive five Viaticum. Come then, then, ask permission,
that Don Carlos is not to deny it to you. Consider me. "

I put the
little note in the hands of Don Carlos. He read at a glance, and exclaimed:

-
Well, saddle Mauritius and Go away!

And addressing the young man
added:

- You go with the Lord.

Half an hour later we were going,
and good step on the way to Villaverde.

The night was dark. Back
in the heart of the Sierra flashed distant storm. Could be heard distant
thunder, distant, and from time to time, in the light of lightning,
we discovered the tops of distant mountains. The sky was enveloped
in a network of lightning.

Amenazábanos rain, big drops fell, and
echoed in the nearby forest groves and the step of rushing wind. Hissing
snakes in the bushes of the road thousand insects buzzing in the grass,
and the sound of rain was approaching fast and scary. The trees seemed
spectra, the lights of the candles burning huts in front of a corpse.

We
went at a trot. I was silent and anxious, Mauricio I was diligent
and respectful. The rain did not invade the valley in the mountains
stopped, unloaded there, and soon was cleared heaven. There, due to
Villaverde, twinkling stars of the Big Dipper. The storm was struggling,
but weak and faint, in the far reaches of the Sierra.

"Death! - I
thought, while Maurice was whistling through his teeth melancholic
song .-- The death! I'll see her get ... has he come to this hour
.... I never thought mine, I loved, would die !»....

My heart ached,
and my thoughts went from one thing to another without stopping anywhere.
Complacióme memories of better years, adventurous days, I longed for
the tranquility of the school I spent two decades on, and it seemed
that the happy memories of childhood away from me sorrows and pains.
Angelina! Where was Angelina? I weep for the sick! Gabriela! Green Patch, The. By Bettina von Hutten. Happy Island (sequel to "Uncle William.")
By Jennette Lee. Hearts and the Highway. By Cyrus Townsend Brady. Held for Orders. By Frank
H. Spearman. Hidden Water. By Dane Coolidge. Household of Peter, The. By Rosa N. Carey. House
of Mystery, The. By Will Irwin. House of the Lost Court, The. By C. N. Williamson. House of
the Whispering Pines, The. By Anna Katherine Green.

House on Cherry Street, The. By Amelia E. Barr. How Leslie Loved. By Anne Warner. Husbands
of Edith, The. By George Barr McCutcheon. Idols. By William J. Locke. Illustrious Prince, The.
By E. Phillips Oppenheim. Imprudence of Prue, The. By Sophie Fisher. Inez. (Illustrated Edition.)
By Augusta J. Evans. Infelice. By Augusta Evans Wilson. Initials Only. By Anna Katharine Green.
In the Service of the Princess. By Henry C. Rowland. Iron Woman, The. By Margaret Deland. Ishmael.
(Illustrated.) By Mrs. Southworth. Island of Regeneration, The. By Cyrus Townsend Brady. Jack
Spurlock, Prodigal. By Horace Lorimer. Jane Cable. By George Barr McCutcheon. Jeanne of the
Marshes. By E. Phillips Oppenheim. Jude the Obscure. By Thomas Hardy. Keith of the Border.
By Randall Parrish. Key to the Unknown, The. By Rosa N. Carey. Kingdom of Earth, The. By Anthony
Partridge. King Spruce. By Holman Day. Ladder of Swords, A. By Gilbert Parker. Lady Betty Across
the Water. By C. N. and A. M. Williamson. Lady Merton, Colonist. By Mrs. Humphrey Ward. Lady
of Big Shanty, The. By Berkeley F. Smith. Langford of the Three Bars. By Kate and Virgil D.
Boyles. Land of Long Ago, The. By Eliza Calvert Hall. Lane That Had No Turning, The. By Gilbert
Parker. Last Trail, The. By Zane Grey. Last Voyage of the Donna Isabel, The. By Randall Parrish.
Leavenworth Case, The. By Anna Katharine Green. Lin McLean. By Owen Wister. Little Brown Jug
at Kildare, The. By Meredith Nicholson. Loaded Dice. By Ellery H. Clarke. Lord Loveland Discovers
America. By C. N. and A. M. Williamson. Lorimer of the Northwest. By Harold Bindloss. Lorraine.
By Robert W. Chambers. Lost Ambassador, The. By E. Phillips Oppenheim. Love Under Fire. By
Randall Parrish. Loves of Miss Anne, The. By S. R. Crockett. Macaria. (Illustrated Edition.)
By Augusta J. Evans. Mademoiselle Celeste. 

VI

God, who, as the saying goes, tightens, but does not drown, he
permitted that sad night continue one day very cheerful, with clouds
sweep the sky and a sun that, though pale and cold, illuminated the
valley and decorated the tops of the mountains surrounding them in
haloes of shimmering light.

I received the first greeting of the sun's life-giving Mother Earth as one of the largest benefits
that could grant me the sky in the middle of the dark loneliness that I saw, and my uncle was
quick to recommend to use the "clears", which was to be a long "hard" for signs that he considered infallible,
to "get used to the weapons and take the land as was due and the sooner. " He gave me the advice
reports and programs that seemed excellent, and having no other breaks my scope and more tempting
my taste, I chose so I proposed, and prepared at once to take to the mountain, which is worth
so much there and the world cultured and refined "into the street", ie, the happiness of God,
"to killing time. "

Before leaving her house went into the doctor, who was taking the opportunity to greet the almost
daily visit to my uncle did, particularly since his last serious illness. He was a young man
who would walk in their thirties, not very stout, but stout complexion;
short hair and beard, black and strong, looking strong, but not harshly,
nice face and voice of words very sober, clean, loose-fitting, modest
dress, and a native of a village of coastal Nansa.

This was all that he knew at that time. His visit was brief, and very graciously said goodbye,
leaving very pleased that I find in Tablanca, more by what was written on the face and mediquillo
air, that the weights their clothes made by my uncle to introduce me. We went down together
to the door, throwing it right away Canberra by the people and I on the other diametrically opposite
to the mountain.

Acompañábame Chisco, highly recommended by gift from his master, in the same outfit and the very shoes
he had known me in the passage of the mountains, and we went with the two a big dog hound, named
Cinnamon, a very unusual breed to me so great that it would perpetuated in my uncle's house since
his father was a waiter and hunter.

Chisco had a escopetona Piston with wide waxed twine reinforced clamps on very long barrel grungy,
a powder horn and a bag of green bandana and the pellet BBs they were mixed with it. I an elegant
and fine Lafaucheux two guns, holster corresponding hanger, wide and sturdy boots spiked soles,
leather leggings English and all baggage, in short, a hunter figurine. Chisco looked at me askance and
even smile awhile, particularly when fixed in my shoes, and, above all, every time I looked
in the soft clay slip or on slabs of encalabrinar trails. At last he came to plead that final
step would have no choice to put up with pair of clogs as yours, that my clothes, "could happen" and
that, in terms of weaponry, "They would see." If he cannot go on mozallón! For one thing,
neither he nor I were then actual "game" but a walk, just as in lowland walks a man with a
cane in his hand or both vacant, the walker there equips weapons and ammunition for what could
happen.

As the excursion it was very entertaining and also very helpful because it gave me a good appetite
and better sleep, the next day I repeated, though different side of the mountain, but extend much
more than the previous radius of my might, because the theater of my experiences was vast, and learning
very tough.

After three or four days walking in these trials and continuing the time cheerful and spring Pete
joined us (Agapito) Salces' Chorcos "mote, son of a home of my uncle, good Hunter also, like
most men of that valley, something awkward and lengthy Magin and disjointed members. He had known me
at home one night, and I had fallen very grace your degustation and
"things", for what my uncle, who was fishing in the air and sometimes
means of entertaining, provided that from the next day to accompany
me add to Chisco in my wanderings.

He was also very fond of it, and they both tasted like liquor glory Fraser and my cigarettes in
my suitcase as soon as tasted.
 By C. N. Williamson. Vashti. By Augusta
Evans Wilson. Deputies and the Academy of Jurisprudence and Legislation

Plaza del Príncipe Don Alfonso, no. 8, Madrid.

ALVAREZ DE ARAUJO AND NECK. Homeopathic Medicine Directory Year .-- I. - Contents: 1. º prologue
the author, 2. No dates that recall key events in the life and scientific work Hahnemann 3. º Madrid
urban hygiene, 4. No country life, compared with that of large populations under the hygienic
point of view, 5. No human longevity 6. No notes for history of Homeopathy in Spain, 7. º some news
about the state of Homeopathy outside Spain, 8. º aphoristic exposition of the doctrine of
Hahnemann Medical 9. No objections commonly are made to homeopathy, and its refutation, 10. º
why the action of drugs homeopathic, and how physically show, 11. º some concerns about the
value characteristic symptoms - by Boenninghaussen, 12. No manual of materia medica, or be Summary
of major pathogenic effects of 45 drugs (new) with indications clinics.
Madrid, 1862.

An atom in 8. º, 16 rs. in Madrid and 19 provinces, postage paid.

Arostegui.

Method abridged condom instruction and homeopathic treatment Cholera-epidemic morbidity, Madrid,
1854. A brochure at 8. º, 4 rs. in Madrid and 6 provinces postage paid.

Boenninghausen. The sides of the body, as also the affinities of drugs. Studies homeopathic. Work translated
from German into French by Ph. de Molinari, individual Societies homeopathic medicine in Paris,
Belgium, Holland, and other scientific societies.

Poured French to Castilian, Dr. JPH. Ant Alvarez-Peralta, individuals in society Hahnemannian
Matritense, the Philanthropic Society of Paris-magnetic, etc. 1857. At 8. º, 4 rs. Madrid and
5 provinces, postage paid.

CHARGE. Homeopathic treatment, preventive and curative Cholera epidemic; instruction popular
guide that can serve in the absence of a doctor. Translated from French by Dr. D. JMG Barcelona,
​​1854.

A booklet in 18. No, a real in Madrid and 2 in the provinces, postage
paid.

CHEPMELL. New Manual of Homeopathy home, reduced to its true
limits, with some instructions on diet and regimen, translated from
the fifth edition under the direction DJ Sanllehy. Barcelona, ​​1856.
An atom in 8. º, 12 rs. in Madrid and 14 provinces, ex- note.

CROSERIO.


CAPTAIN BRAND, OF THE SCHOONER CENTIPEDE. By Lieut. Henry A. Wise, U.S.N. (Harry Gringo). Cloth,
12mo. with four illustrations by J. Watson Davis. Price, $1.00.

The re-publication of this story will please those lovers of sea yarns who delight in so much
of the salty flavor of the ocean as can come through the medium of a printed page, for never
has a story of the sea and those "who go down in ships" been written by one more familiar with
the scenes depicted. 

But excited by the novelty of the work and he also drives my habits novelist I began to write
and to write, not realizing that instead of a "scenario" produced a novel, and finished in twenty
evenings PARADISE OF WOMEN.

I've never worked so fast and with such fervor.

I think if I were now to make a copy of this book employ longer.

I repeat that I never thought my film would become a novel printed volume; and my surprise was
great to see that the "stage" was a book that sought to find some some philosophical and political
intent. Even in the United States - a country where women exert enormous
influence and legitimate - some believe, wrongly, that my novel is
By way of a satire of American feminism. The novel, long out of print, had in its day a phenomenal sale,
for its realistic presentation of Indian and frontier life in the early days of settlement
in the South, narrated in the tale with all the art of a practiced writer. A very charming
love romance runs through the story. Faust quiets more fondly than reasons, and finally arranges an appointment
with her.

Here are details on which we dare not enforce decisions. No doubt it is admirable force Goethe's
creative, so real that we are introduced to Margarita and for that surrounds art of candor,
that, notwithstanding all its faults, continues to seem pure and innocent, as if he had evil
in it a god who steals responsibility and free will. Love has been the work of love and not the devil,
but in the direction it takes so beautiful passion, and the devil is involved. No wonder God has
made the same permission to try to Fausto, no wonder he is bound with him. Crimes are needed;
matter is born and is increasing the tragic terror; but despite this, and despite a lot of
evil has to be in the story that such a role does the devil, no one could have excused the detail
of narcotics, Margarita given by her mother during the night to unveil and not surprised at
arms of his beloved? Although Margaret has the certainty that evil will not narcotics his mother,
is not horrible yet to be given, and then have your hand in that violent dream in that mockery
of death, as she has with the man she loves? In all manner of sins are the most and least. No
missing women who tease their mothers and their husbands, but we are certain that for every
cent, just will not discard a the use of narcotics. Even the most conscienceless libertines figure
we have to hurry by all means, and though will not find any, they will stop before proposing
scared her friends this way of numbing the mother or husband to have them then peacefully. Moreover,
Margarita, who was alone in the house of Martha, unscrupulous woman and all was paid, what need was to
infuse his mother sleep?

We say that infanticide is worse, that infanticide is the most heinous of crimes; but infanticide
was necessary to motivate the torture of Margarita, whose goodness is safe thanks to delirium.
 That it has been brought out once more, well illustrated,
is something which will give pleasure to thousands who have long desired an opportunity to
read the story again, and to the many who have tried vainly in these latter days to procure
a copy that they might read it for the first time. 

I tried to control myself, I decided, even in exchange for Gabriela believe me rude, to flee
her, and showed me several days surly and sullen. I passed me at the desk hours of rest, pretending
to extraordinary occupations, or I would I, as escaped, to wander the plain or lie on the grass
under the trees of river. Several times I caught lady to show me their drawings, and a beautiful
watercolor painted on my gift: a bouquet violets put on a wine glass and took me to go to his
call. For the night, time that we met in the room, I stayed away from Gabriela, leafing through
the newspapers; until finally realizing that something serious she had me pensive and downcast, he
said affectionately, as a sister who tries to console the little one favorite.

- Come on, Rodolfo ... What do you have? Angry of Linilla?

LVI

A weekend I received a letter from Aunt Pepa. It told me that the patient had suffered horrible
attack, that the doctor was very alarmed and worried, and that things went wrong, badly.

"I want you here, if a misfortune, to accompany me and help me. Juana does everything. The poor
and not good for caregiving, and the maid is not so. What I miss Angelina! If he were here would
not be so great my concern. Why not come, Sarmiento said that so good, that the danger is past,
and, God willing, there to fear a misfortune, for now. But I see things differently: Carmen will
not last much, that is not live, and I see every day weaker and fall. Before eating very well,
but now takes a long time I take one thing, a triumph cost to accept medicines. Consider me: I'm
very heartbroken, just sleep, and live in constant anxiety. Don Roman
came to me, and also your friend Don came Quentin.

It's a really good guy. I asked if anything could be useful to me and if I needed anything. I said
no and thanked him.
"We also came Pérez Castro girls, I asked for you and give you charge
me memories of you of your dad. I sympathize these girls, I told you.
Murmuring and what indiscreet! Chief among these, as a matter of course, is Lewis Wetzel,
one of the most peculiar, and at the same time the most admirable of all the brave men who
spent their lives battling with the savage foe, that others might dwell in comparative security.

Details of the establishment and destruction of the Moravian "Village of Peace" are given at
some length, and with minute description. The efforts to Christianize the Indians are described
as they never have been before, and the author has depicted the characters of the leaders of
the several Indian tribes with great care, which of itself will be of interest to the student. You
come to me ... me I have not ever needed to know what books I know. They do not want follow my
advice, sir! The books are useless in the new towns like ours. Rozas to overthrow the books were
not required, to make the 1853 Constitution, were not necessary and is the best constitution
in the world. I am a lawyer and I have enough Darnasca to learn my profession. The notion of right
is lost as is further want to know the texts. The same policy! We are not prepared to govern
Hamilton, Madison and Story. Good sense, that's enough! Yes, gentlemen, good sense enough! I, for
example, but do not read newspapers, and journalism, gentlemen, is like the pelican feeds their
children with their own blood. Have you ever been in my studio, Don Ramón, is not it? Have you been?
Well! What books have you seen? Collections of newspapers that I have written, yes: the collection
of the Beehive, The Sword of Damocles, Regeneration Porteña The liberty cap, etc., All the
papers that I have been editor. "Well, eh? ... I needed some time fishing out about the penguins
on the Patagonian coast when I was minister, what have I done? ... Sword of Damocles to ...
record collection In 1853 or 54, I find the article I wrote about fishing for these molluscs
...

- But, doctor, do the penguins are not birds? - Observed my uncle.

-
But do not fly, Don Ramon, and are essentially maritime and fishing
rather than hunted; why is that classed among the molluscs, and thus
I designate in my article of the Sword of Damocles.

And as I say fishing for the penguins, say parliamentary government; we are talking about the benefits
of the bicameral system ... You see the result has given us in the nation and the province ...
We have gone back, gentlemen, we have regressed twenty years, our first act of government should
be back to the camera only and not numerous.


The story is divided into two parts, one dealing with Lady Jane Grey, and the other with Mary
Tudor as Queen, introducing other notable characters of the era. Who gave you this filth? Ugh! ... Smells patchouli! Must
be some guaranga, downgraded to you ... This to me has to pay! It burning Troy! You have dishonored
my family and my name dragged through the last layers social. The name of the Berriedale!
If my father were alive, and I would have crushed the ribs; thirty years he was military and my
mother never had a complaint. You see it there, lift eyes and ask you forgive the author of
my days ... Depraved and perverse husband! 

Inside the vehicle, a character rich in meat was standing, having before his mouth funnel spokespersons.
Finally someone was going to speak. For this no doubt had made a deep Silence of curiosity and
respect in the crowd.

"This is a little idyl of humble life and enduring love, laid bare before us, very real and
pure, which in its telling shows us some strong points of Welsh character--the pride, the hasty
temper, the quick dying out of wrath.... We call this a well-written story, interesting alike
through its romance and its glimpses into another life than ours. It is absurd, therefore, give good wine around the world. Why? who would know
appreciate.

I kept removed from the group of slanderers. I was missing my partner in waltz, passed for
me the memory of what had happened the previous year.

I would live in the same home ... Who cares?

I was sure of myself, what could I fear? In these reflections was absorbed, when Don Benito came
to beat me on the shoulder.

- July - told me - are we going to dinner
at the club?

- Come on - I replied mechanically, after saying goodbye
to Fernanda and we Montifiori and our carriage.

- You know - I said,
as Don Benito in the car - which has won 5000 Fernanda me hard ...
yesterday.

- Fernanda!

What

!