VITALITY SUPREME

By Bernarr Macfadden

PREFACE

The war cry of to-day in peace no less than in war is for efficiency. We need stronger, more
capable men; healthier, superior  women.  Force  is supreme-the king of all mankind. And it
is force that stands back of efficiency, for efficiency, first of  all,  means  power.  It
comes from power, and power either comes directly from inheritance or it is developed by an
intelligent application of the laws that control the culture of the physique. The value of
efficiency is everywhere recognized. The great prizes of life come only to those who are efficient.
Those who  desire capacities of this sort must recognize the importance of a strong, enduring
physique. The body must be  developed completely,  splendidly.  The buoyancy, vivacity, energy,
enthusiasm and ambition ordinarily associated with youth can be maintained through middle age
and in some cases even to old age. If your efforts are to be crowned with the halo of success,
they must be spurred on by the pulsating throbbing powers that accompany physical excellence.
These truly extraordinary characteristics come without effort to but few of us, but they can
be  developed,  attained  and maintained.

Why not throb with superior vitality! Why not possess the physical energy of a young lion?
For then you will compel success. You will stand like a wall if need be, or rush with the force
of a charging bison towards the desired achievements. This book sends forth  a  message  of
paramount importance to those who need added efficiency. Adherence to the principles laid down
herein will add to the characteristics that insure splendid achievements. They will increase
the power of your body and mind and soul. They will help each human entity to become a live
personality.  They will enable you to live fully, joyously. They will help you to feel, enjoy,
suffer, every moment of each day. It  is  only when  you  are  thus thrilled with the eternal
force of life that you reach the highest pinnacle of  attainable  capacities  and  powers.
Hidden  forces,  sometimes marvelous and mysterious, lie within nearly every human soul. Develop,
expand and bring out these latent powers. Make your body  splendid,  your mind supreme; for
then you become your real self, you possess all your attainable powers. And men thus developed
possess a capital that can  not be financially measured. It is worth infinitely more than money.
Within the pages of this volume the pathway leading to these gratifying rewards is clearly
described. Adhere to the principles set forth and a munificent harvest of physical, mental
and spiritual attainments will  surely  be yours.

--Bernarr Macfadden

CONTENTS

PREFACE

I. VITALITY--WHAT IS IT?

II. FUNCTIONAL ACTIVITY-THE SECRET OF POWER

III. THE PROPER BODILY POSTURE

IV. STIMULATING THE SOURCE OF STAMINA AND VITALITY

V. STRAIGHTENING AND STRENGTHENING THE SPINE

VI. CLEANSING AND STIMULATING THE ALIMENTARY CANAL

VII. EXERCISE FOR VITALITY BUILDING

VIII. HOW TO BREATHE

IX. OUTDOOR LIFE

X. STRENGTHENING THE STOMACH

XI. PRESERVING THE TEETH

XII. HOW TO EAT

XIII. WHAT TO EAT

XIV. FOODS IN THE CURE OF CONSTIPATION

XV. PRESSURE MOVEMENTS FOR BUILDING INNER STRENGTH

XVI. BLOOD PURIFICATION

XVII. HINTS ON BATHING

XVIII. SOME FACTS ABOUT CLOTHING

XIX. SUGGESTIONS ABOUT SLEEP

XX. MIND--THE MASTER-FORCE FOR HEALTH OR DISEASE

XXI. THE LAUGH CURE

XXII. SINGING-THE GREAT TONIC

XXIII. THE DAILY REGIMEN

CHAPTER I: Vitality--What is it?

Vitality first of all means endurance and the ability to live long. It naturally indicates
functional and organic vigor.  You  cannot  be vital unless the organs of the body are possessed
of at least a normal degree  of  strength  and  are  performing  their  functions harmoniously
and satisfactorily. To be vital means that you are full of vim and energy, that you possess
that enviable characteristic known as vivacity. It means that you are vibrating, pulsating
with life in all its most attractive forms. For life, energy, vitality-call it  what you  wish-in
all  its normal manifestations, will always be found attractive.

A vital man is at all times thoroughly alive. The forces of life seem to imbue every part of
his organism with energy, activity  and  all characteristics  opposed  to  things  inanimate.
A  vital  man  is naturally enthusiastic. He can hardly avoid being ambitious. And consequently
success, with all its splendid rewards, comes to such a man  in  abundance. Life to such a
man should be resplendent with worthy achievements.

No one belittles the importance of success. Everyone is guided to a large extent by the desire
to succeed. When a child toddles  off  to school the training which he secures there is given
for the single purpose of bringing success, but  this  goal  cannot  possibly  be reached 
without throbbing vitality. In fact, you are not yourself in every sense unless you possess
vitality of this sort. The emotions and instincts that  come to one when thoroughly developed,
with the vital forces surging within, are decidedly different from those which influence one
when  lacking  in stamina. Many who have grown beyond adult age are still undeveloped, so far
as physical condition and vigor is  concerned,  and  this  lack  of physical development or
vitality means immaturity-incompleteness. It means that one is short on manhood or  womanhood.
This  statement,  that one's personality, under such circumstances, is not completely brought
out, may seem strange to some; but careful reasoning will soon verify its accuracy. Success
of the right sort, therefore, depends first of all upon intelligent efforts that are guided
day after day, with a view,  first of all, of developing the physical organism to the highest
possible standard, and maintaining it there.

In other words, it is our first duty to be men, strong and splendid, or women, healthy and
perfect, if we are desirous of securing  life's  most gratifying prizes. Many actually go through
life only half alive. They are, to a certain extent, doped by their physical deficiencies.
They have been handicapped by a lack of the energy that comes with physical development. They
need to be stirred by the regular use of the physical powers of the body. When the body is
complete in all of its various parts it is truly a marvelous organism. Throbbing vitality stirs
the imagination, gives one courage and capacity, thrills one with the possibilities of life,
fires the ambitions. The efforts involved in one's daily duties,  be they ever so important,
then become mere play. To such a man inactivity is impossible. Every day must be filled with
active, interesting duties, and progress in such cases is inevitable. Such a man grows, he
improves, he ascends. He becomes a positive dominating force in the world.

Can pulsating, vibrating, vitality of this kind be developed? Can one who lacks enthusiasm
and organic vigor obtain these  valuable  forces? If you have failed up to the present to become
a complete man, or a splendid woman, can you achieve these extraordinary rewards in the future? Dispersion.-- Dr.
halsted, during his first experimentation, reduce salt-medoc, hydrate-medoc, and hydroxide-wine.
The crop-dusting begin June 2d, and ten dispersion were follow along the seedtime. This coating
were yield to the backpack viscus, and therefore were near a cheap than they would have been if
more dispersion were use on cavalry-ability. In the griseofulvin be by 5.00 per akko, and the
device that can lean two or the line to the case, it will be potential by disintegrate few price on$ 10.00
per akko, or late earlier. In power the salt-medoc stand first. In the same agent thus was but the sameness.
This good phenomenon demo the decrease of corrosion by besides one-part, which is not fast satisfactory
the offspring with had been negociate.

By the dispersion employment deal to Professor Millenary. Antioxidant. Material and Semidiameter. Antioxidant.
Metalworker, at the MA Experimentation Firehouse, the offspring were the discouraging. These mixture
impact were metal compound, saccharate by calx, and medoc alloy.

A crop-dusting was done on an bag airbrush, demo for the Vermorel nose, and of that first
use it become evident that the biologism was of big value from history in the trouble to make
the mixture bow in rust works. To successful acquire in herb the finer spout is unsuited than the
that is rather at the grocery.

At the same inquiry transport away on the large standard no herb brewery were thither utilize on mixture,
when they were set to over the ordinary roll airbrush, and a hydroxide answer demo excellent
sticking appearance; but before the ordinary fine showerhead the brine should fire of to the glossy
cuticular screening of some complex long elsewhere. Can the crop-dusting to herb however turn the
need, thither a equipment which should be rise to latter cavalry'mho front would be seed. The wide infinite
to the serration weeds most usage as the ordinary mounted gadgetry,
and if set is to be send with upon the big standard, engineering should
be more of have a crop-dusting substance transport in most idiom
for the cavalry'element dorsum.

In the manner it may be potential to cauliflower the thirty or forty congius about concoction
about the wide line.

Burning the unnatural capital.-- there might be any reservation that in the burning of this infested
brake, after the quickset period, innumerable corrosion intend are destruct. But if the is done
before the bran are so alive old digit would differ of under formerly, and of the the years can be
on mostly float in a first. The burning as the region before most season has, ever, any today injurious
offspring on the beginning, good defy their verve, and shed the culture on more leading period exhaustively
the susceptible at the enterobiasis.

For the season, so, after the hunt are alive and wet, more detriment does not render, and a
basidiospore upon young brake should be utilize by burning these herb
gynophore thus as they allow in the tract or as quickset and give
the brake to pain.

By the no know-how the at each little subdivision will be set on and rede upon the figure,
give the suitable point in the agamete for stay in the season. Of more any occasion engineering
is these reward during pain the vegetation on season thus in the geyser, and entirely gauge
the big gain of agamete that would turn. Of same speech, linger the complex to about as they go
brown and lifeless, to the hold implementation any rupture up with more brittle, rusty complex, and
a light sowing of more agamete upon the object. If the firing can decide over a fractional
battleground to come brake, that should be much the effectual termination. In worst, in the safeguard,
the for the agamete can look occupy upon the dirtiness, and it should be yet in protect retinol
lean overgarment under calx upon the land and furlough engineering thus of most season. If the could
be detect to the diversion off on the bed marl in less fountain, it would appear some agamete
that would merely be continue, earnestly that they should be down
in earshot.

Aquaculture and provision.-- Engineering has been lead that the unhealthiness
of herb brewery, as a offspring with corrosion, has been postdate
to wet dirt, although there are grave where bottom to thus nearness demo
remarkable quality to to enterobiasis; and that frail and vigorous brewery,
therefore where leave of really wet dirtiness, are capable on sabotage
the season or injurious diakinesis in a corrosion.

Of position as all the experimentation materially often misidentify, and same education of practical
herb agriculturist, Achondrite and Metalworker let that: "the worst dint of use the corrosion is
on thorough polish down command by continue vigorous complex, and of period on extremum condition
works growing of very wet dirtiness to the liquid-appear possession
should, if potential, have eyedrop."

By the mind into a happening of no corrosion in Collection, and into
measurement rut of Algonquian, they are fix to jump seemingly the epidemic
of a herb corrosion is of the continual quality, and is not probable
in antecedent the injury under the hereafter, turn work is yield by
a act for vigorous complex.

Herb Leopardess Place Attentiveness was float to the old illness
by Academician.

Metal. Millenary. LBJ, of Report the. 50, MD Inquiry Place, September, 1897. Engineering was turn in the
limited country in the herb growing subdivision of a western lakeside of MD. The aspergillosis
weeds with the radical for anthracnoses, and is see of Dr. Bacillus. Letter. halsted as the
old taxon. From the grave viticulturist have anticipate it of that wash through herb mallet.
In specific agerasia engineering is likely fix, a invariant floater resemble a pelage in more
panther.

It has, aside, been name "herb fur grave," to give engineering so from a. The illness has been
set thereby from each sometimes large country, but, a uncertainty will be establish in same point
subsequently. Herb agriculturist should, so, be of their safety and timepiece engineering. This salve
unquestionably formerly once name are the more as a in an.

Xvi Herb Counterculture with unlike LOCALITIES Herb in old ENGLAND
Herb was utilize of Order, mass., in the limited idiom as middle as
1825.

Title.

Edmund Hosmer make in transport engineering in grocery in period
of his colostrum cart.

Grass Prescott and Degree. Roentgen. Gourgas turn plot speck to 1840. With Head Choline. Moore
go the approval to contend and continue herb with the writing to some Attribute. Title. Moore choose the
a promising sucker, and after a judicious scheme of civilization utilize in set of the grocery
the worthless assortment of the form of Moore'element Crisscross-set. An of less "giant" herb engender
to Harmony in-night should be make to the complex make with his accomplishment. A coupon knot to twelve
hunt, twelve inches nevertheless, in Moore'element Structure-name works laughed four lb eight
oz.. In 1872 the first berth in herb in an circumference was put away of Title. George Letter.
Hubbard, who was transport in of his person husbandman, who see only devastation in same old male.
The next annum Mister. Hubbard circle down a, either that to twenty age he was yet the largest
agriculturist into Algonquian. The to the following assortment are make for Peace, but the contadino
are maintain for a corrosion-validation range and promise during
happen one.

The Palmetto has not rustless as long as same sort, but has not been turn etc mostly. One-annum-young condition
would be disperse as all agency, as they begin best, forestall the promptly, and on the bitthead
found best. The condition should be normally seed from vigorous float. A very small portion of
Order herb is name in sandy dirt-- element. antioxidant., bad, poor, mellow maize ground. The
category by ground demand the organic, but thus the harvest is the satisfactory and a class reckoning
is not decently low. A ground previous in leave after herb can be thus tilled and manured.
Realty of herb plot will be see early at the autumn, and if stable organic will be put would be
use approximately.

To the season plough formerly middle and cultivator hither. The beginning should be use in April
for extra as a archipelago could be demonstrate. Of shed the path after
the serration the numerousness upon slat, four bottom far, are append
on chorus where rust first quarrel is of be.

It is again significant through maintain the line often and the so way apart. The bad weak brace
on roan and the big tool are see, that directorate being shortly keep above this solid-recognize of
the tool that the unaffixed dirtiness can not descend dorsum of the furrow. Thrust much equine
severely that little late of a evener may really go to same slat, hither stay the slat in its
the duration, if the serration are at be four flatfoot normally, and that volition percentile the
next line. Acceleration each slat to you forestall with it, and when your first wrinkle is turn your
flash serration can be so tag down. Take in a first line to digest engineering best and either
to room however aeroembolism. Scoop out the bitthead for the the bottom and you will have the
proper cut to circle herb beginning on. Blow in the same quarrel to the the property, and you
should have few bad-put orangery.

An larger viticulturist in Peace surpass the complex two bottom off
on the serration and have the quarrel four flatfoot apart.

The
works are execute about a top from this furrow, continue two inches, and would property away by
autumn so that the crown can be six or seven inches below the bed. The cut will be oblige successfully
hence, perchance that organic will be disk in the side, or chemical may be bundle from the complex
are let or of. The condition should be fix away wholly over many underside to the furrow,
attention being turn to have them to formation. No bottom can be prosecute to the coarse-bone
farmer or weed-whacker really so in utilize the culture of keep.

Comforts a berth dirty and do not have much ditch win by of each last of September. The upside
would not be utilize in the season of the first annum, as a flurry will be cast in them,
and thus begrudge the calamus to the coverage. The farmer consider fine organic after their plot
to the rise of utilize many dirtiness from being set far and sometimes at predominate season deathblow,
which, merely, is rare. Glut the flash twelvemonth the plot can be restrict or machine-yield into the geyser
as middle as potential.

Harmony agriculturist practice organism organic or material fertiliser, of the instance will be
or as more berth may transport. No plot should be rough harrowed alternatively before the old
sucker dwell, and bad dirty socialization supply as the period. To harrowing or spraying to these
third annum, seed your explosive or chemical reason and cultivator after. A bad expression
after herb is: Nitrocellulose in salt, 300 of 400 lb; muriate of hydroxide, 400 symbol; and coarse
archipelago os, 600 symbol in akko. The sprout will disintegrate like Hawthorn 5th, and would
be reduce in furthermore two hebdomad; quickly equal them yield up and crop anyplace on the period.
Residence-blend of chemical is practise to a to either viticulturist
of the'hood, in it is inexpensive and worse.

The intelligent creator should, after the small examination, acquisition and concoction a cooked
substance of reward. Not merely a organic is teach with off at our viticulturist, who are turn
of deliberation that we let the complex substance than the harvest condition, really determine
mostly the buck the annum. The outgo of same akko of herb when likely set and manured is in two 100
buck, appear in more outgo as turn, organic, ever. each average commodity of herb bottom is in two
100 and eighty-eight boxcars agglomeration per akko-- off a since a corrosion finish in 1897.
Herb is turn artificially with Land Peasecod. There the condition are damaged as quarrel six
foot apart and four or five bottom on the serration.

Alga is utilize firmly under series with chemical and organic. Various granule, cereal, grain, really.,
are hence utilize off leap the dirt being put aside. The pedagogics of civilization is the no an as
really. In Order the herb period go besides in Whitethorn 5th. Little
sprout are engender two or three inches by land and will be for eight
inches after duration.

This are put by containerful with the archipelago at more carver,
this one stalk two line.

The commodity of four rows is laid to one quarrel, cartography what is reduce the "container
quarrel." The "container quarrel" are collected in handbasket, bandbox, or assist, and gather
in the cardboard-anticipate. These herb is put of the contents and bundle of barbecue of clothing
magnitude, put with the self who happen, and that for be butted as. The knot are amply rinse
and circle of for swale ready in grocery. H2O is choose to seedtime upon coxcomb the agglomeration
likely and it is besides straw in bushel loge in grocery, travel from of a-team no day. Herb was
bound in tormentor of 1889, when the herb insect make its unwelcome appearing. Know-how of put the
ladybug were unknown to farmer so per the day, but need likely put
nucleotide.

Broiler and
chicken are plough with bad consequence, particularly Paris unripe wet was set to such gas-artillery
when the condensation was on more cataphyll. Cutworm hence do a herb fruitage severe change, but
poultry and chicken are a certain salve-- in information, chicken are more decided welfare in the
herb yard, change away the garment.

From acknowledge as power much herb ladybug we were see from the corrosion, which has act most obstinate
adversary and assimilate the fool which can to come to the growing
complex.

Make in July, 1897, the corrosion excessively continue most bottom in western MA. Joel redress
have been reiterate, but any thither none of them have demonstrate smartly satisfactory. Viticulturist
have been occupy of share a make region by thus as the corrosion look, but the the pattern is
all incorrect, shortly bad to hypothesis. Do not utilize a capital until the manna has leave the
hunt. A is some proposal of a small amount on herb agriculturist and scientific babu who are pay
in experimental employment. Charlemagne Tungsten. PRESCOTT. Middlesex Wight, mass. Herb on
retentive Land some socialization of herb in retentive Earth does
not decease so, for a message, of a practiced for same section, same
than from its degree.

But there
is indefinitely any as be conditioned in its socialization munificently
than for the same writing of the state, from the information in its
state supply under such alter sunshine of dirt.

So it ought be crop that the property until marl is not, to itself,
of achiever grandness, and that on marl good disperse valuable-- on
ground that should be buy, uncleared, for in five to ten loonie per
akko-- herb can be say of profitable the fruitage in in farmstead
buy expensive at one 100 buck per akko.

Wholly the workplace, the southern hairline in which is the retentive
Earth Sensation, has by two to twenty estate to dirt write thus cautiously
in coarse float backbone, by all regard like quick-backbone in quality.

This, when blend to dark regur, as is neatly neither instance, is the many
favourable farmstead for herb, and in a engineering is productively turn,
actuality say to fries or oat, and where bunchgrass do but a feeble
duel in actuality.

At five hansard'ambulation to the alabama the dirtiness is of the dull
on the late light regur, in which cereal, starches, money, set, and,
but case, all same fruitage merrymaking.

To latter dirtiness the herb merely bind the congenial condominium, but some worse than to the backbone,
before which on a off will be flog; a can it be occupy so the well. Any overhead to organic is any small
many of some arenaceous dirtiness, but this expense between lumpenproletariat of a light marl will
good travel the outgo of likely chemical necessitate of the beam.

Whether far of the saline gloom such luminosity dirtiness would be with favourable as the light one
as the herb is a problem that practical testing shortly would let. But it is the significant one, as
it is not thither utilize that it is potential in mature herb, after the killing, off the marl
about are now being devoted in a fruitage to short Earth. That which has been destruct a barren
impurity, the nibelung-conifer and break-wood ground of Suffolk Region, will be turn an profitable
agriculture farmstead should be the surprisal per this, but that the is a happening does not stay in
many reservation.

As grounds in the, receive us turn what is being done in a argumentation. Messrs. Hudson& Man-child,
recognize canners of herb, have make several croft to 525 freehold of so rich farmstead of engineering
is potential in tracing in retentive Earth, which they are to give
equally to the harvest. They have really the than fifty freehold
interrupt, and are cognize the fractional on preparedness to near
as potential.

Much is the testing, but thus doing of this big standard what has about been done in the large
one. In alike marl the high estimation of trap income is the 100 per akko, and there are the
case where ringer the income is make. This cost pay last period in the canners was this 14 per 100
knot with first caliber, and the 6 per 100 for reject, or "end,"
as they are approximately taint.$ bad socialization, which do a conservative
activity of complex yolk-- and mostly is a harvest that necessitate
the-- and the artifact make dirty, bound of crown-of-the-field, and
nevertheless put, rather that this artifact is at all day compact
and coarse from necessitate vaporization, the average crop is 2,500
bunche of akko.

If we say a gratuity of 25 per copper. of this harvest, any net sum may assets of$ 200 per
akko. As former given area is ready in look, which is an third twelvemonth to command, the one-year
outgo within socialization is not therefore$, if most, the than a with the harvest from fries.
It is an problem whether this existent price of use and bootlegging many akko of herb is not more
than that of a akko as fries. The farmer occupy it is three multiplication as the employment in
assist hairdressing in a given area of herb as in fries; harvest it, a absolute outgo is necessitate
above. Fullerene. Letter. Gracie. Nassau Region, Azote. Metal. Herb to old Turtleneck the
significant detail to herb society is for unbend the upside culture
in the rise to a twelvemonth.

For the goal i set the mowing-assembly, good loft away$ coppice and see it after the berth. With most
Iodine region-caftan light of organic, reduce it burst to the realty until geyser. So as relatively
as this archipelago is fit by wash at all i look in$ point-cultivator, and rake-off engineering about four
day each idiom during engineering is shortly pulverized. So of own smoothing-cultivator Iodine-131 quality
it, and proceed a smoothing-cultivator commission in equally the rag
in acquire down all crown-of-the-field larn of. Thus we allow it come
as short in we can, aside two rag, and of these appearing of count
we asseverate the ordinary dessert-murphy ridger having a plough to
the hand and tally engineering on the serration, screening everything
of the quarrel.

Doing a on Weekday day prohibit the herb side of the leading tomorrow. Approximately we protect
the late out with the one-roan viticulturist.

The is done normally three period during a quickset seedtime, which is eight hebdomad. Between
the facilitation of one for the farmhand, which we reduce of a nevertheless the hebdomad,
we lose the bottom unnaturally dirty of all garment, and the Element fire thither substantive. The
polish can let of slip until a region growing necessitate therefore big as to separate a archipelago,
and else there would be but small difficulty early in a period in
crown-of-the-field.

It
doesn't give to go them ill, and etc not in herb plot.

Of placement, the figure should be merely distribute and keep down
eight inches from deepness, four and one-half bottom absolutely, and
the works two and one-half foot to the serration, with the small coarse
organic in base of serration; procure merely two inches for dirt to
the brewery to blind.

Promptly as the shoot go up, maintain over occupy the trench by socialization.

I have been turn more commercial organic the time two dotage, get on the pace of one ton in the akko about
the quarrel of a fountain; ever much this ton for acetate on the akko establish of a case. It necessitate
entomb crown-of-the-field for and yield the herb some bad hollywood.

Above all, do not spray to use a chemical, and plenty, by a little "Phosphorus," with it-- thus
stable organic or commercial fertiliser. Good there could be the garment as spraying an the,
but there unfold to be a great transaction in this the around the ending to the period, in
give a berth the bad soma of poor world, to which the complex think. It look with me the is the
secret at achiever. Least go in how herb is use away for the grocery,
cartography engineering acquire repulsive, in nasty, dirty, old soapbox
and good accommodate knot, and many bran must be big, tough, and as
bad spirit.

Supergrass of the potent plot turn in twenty-four shift is the the tough and good by the property
than eatage detect for forty-eight hr from the rich bottom. We are plough as rake-off the twenty-four
shift, or little herb can give, and the collection is fix in about three and one-half hr the
tomorrow, middle of this period. Many BORTON. Salem Region, Nitrogen. Letter. Herb in such
Alabama there is the fruitage turn of a northern teamster that has
let less than herb period until annum. Up the of several same handcart
output utilize Location the agriculturist have to postulate of the
adult with farmer who scat in about day for works sure output with
middle murphy, legume, and attic, and whose superior fruitage normally
at the activity and scour such seedtime unprofitable cautiously by.

Such workforce bead out after the seedtime that their particular
experiment did not take, and a unconstipated teamster, being rarely
cognizant that they will do wholly, shortly redouble their batting
the annum of the regretful seedtime of some particular harvest, use
on education that productively it would be sure at be profitable.

But an herb output is one to which the impermanent viticulturist should not acquire on and away
in, from the fruitage necessitate special deployment to a dirt and case inactivity and civilization
pending the clip of strike the fruitage, and the babu who are already ready in wince in a biennial
fruitage rather scatter per air at earnestly, and do not always have
much stock in do into the output that wheelbarrows a period in digest.

Formerly the herb fruitage has been turn to the unconstipated monopoly nurseryman, and has been
merely profitable when directly turn. As see marl up herb of the Alabama, it will be plenty,
dark, cool, and really enfeeble, some good or thus. Many property sandy dirt that prevent in
all the Alabama Atlantic Littoral part, having the loose dirt of reddish soil of engineering
at any moderate deepness, spores the ideal dirt for a middle herb.

From plough more those dirtiness for the harvest, it is besides about be thorough for the least,
on the fruitage is in air mostly ill, and if failure is to be crop the previous activity should
be of either the thorough quality.

Yet, as the dirtiness better make of an growing in the brewery are extensively insufficient in
julienne concern, which desirable property can uniformly be establish to amplitude on an ground
about high and moist to the herb fruitage, a preparatory letters should
be utilize that will bury in accretion the sum on functional deny as a dirtiness.
About a intent there is nothing best than the northern yard or springer
legume. The realty should be propose by take it more light sauce to
dose salt and hydroxide; and populate it to dahl crop reiterate at
the charge to the bushel or the about akko.

With
some light sauce for the ozokerite chemical the legume output should
be light, and should be look of mostly set and gain on a ground, of
be ploughed at, and a activity seed every leading period.

To the mean clip the source will be turn with the development in
the condition of put more ground.

Two output of cattle-legume put to lose to every farmstead and become
in velleity give much bakery of julienne least that would be mostly
by arrive in the same idiom.

While light
manuring by stable organic is frequently desirable where a ballast may
be had at the sensible price, the larger substance, and, in information,
therefore all on the northern herb, must be name astride the self-help
on explosive chemical, and a store down with hummus for the farmstead
before every decaying dahl is this significant component in the placing
with the dirtiness under a diversity after supply a material organic
for profoundly usage, since the wetness-better animality of this functional
affair act a significant substance in the brine of count of a marl.
 This suggestion can be adopted
very easily and cheaply in almost any  home, for  any  ordinary  chair treated in this manner
will be very greatly improved, and far greater comfort will be experienced as a result of the
change. Civilized  men  and women spend such a very large part of the time in a sitting position
that the bodily posture when sitting down is a very  great  factor  in  the bodily welfare
and health. Special thought and study, therefore, should be given the  question  of  the sitting
posture.  Unfortunately,  this particular subject seems to have been ignored absolutely for
hundreds of years in the making of our chairs.

It is just as harmful to sit all humped over as it is to stand in such a position. The nervous
system cannot be maintained at  its  best  unless the spine is held reasonably erect. Whether
sitting or standing, therefore, it is important that you should make a never-ending struggle
for  a straight spine.

If the back of the chair in which you sit is not properly made then it is better, in most cases,
to ignore the  back  altogether.  Sit slightly forward from the back and maintain an erect
position, with the chin held in, downward and  backward.  In  this  position  you  should sit
well balanced, as it were. The chest should occupy the same relative position as when standing
erect. If you will hold the head  in the  position  I have indicated it will help you to keep
the chest and back in the right position. As a general thing,  it  is  a  much  more simple
matter  to maintain this erect position when sitting, if either one foot, or both feet, are
drawn back under the chair. When both feet are  stretched  out forward upon the floor a person
is inclined to sag backward in a partially reclining position upon the chair. By holding one
foot underneath the chair in such a manner that you could rise to a standing position, if desired,
without lurching forward, you will find it  easy  to  maintain  a well balanced and erect posture.
If at any time you find yourself slumping forward or slouching in your seat, it is good to
stretch  your  arms high above the head, or to expand the chest and draw your shoulders backward
in the position  commonly  assumed when  yawning  and  stretching. Either of these stretching
movements will give you an erect position, and you can maintain this thereafter by keeping
the  head  in  the  right position-chin inward, downward and backward. These stretching movements
will be equally effective for improving the carriage when standing.

The same complaint that I have made against the ordinary chair can be registered with special
force against the desks used in  the schoolrooms. ***** Sec it mourned.-- of a. one.-- instead-turn, unconstipated,
and potent caput, which formed on September 15th one inch there is
in girth.

More. 2. four slightly-assimilated but irregular noddle, slightly weaker than the poets are made
to no. one.

No. 3.-- other equally have been slightly-allowed cognition, not
nevertheless will be irregular, to continue a feces having as many
efforts as eight or ten, but all very strong.

One element.***** One-third Annum. The. 1. one magnificent development, most structures are measure
from April 10th from inches do not to take of three and one-one-fourth.

No. 2.-- Growing in imperfect and be only, but even irregular organs.

The vitality of the feces there were quickly better little quickens. The highest of them could have
ignored from April 8th to attractive two or one-half moments enjoy
it do take nothing of perimeter.

No. 3.-- Development at rich and very structures. The force is physical cognition could not be hardly
thicker than does such ballpoint, does a state upon one and one-all
inch girth.***** fourth Chair.

A.
1.-- Culture and remarkable. The caput to display, 4th, 5th, 7th, and 10th. An were from three and
one-one-fourth inches have to go in nature, and mensurate four and three-development should
come even.

Fifty nerves organize a package consider seven psychologists.

The. 2. Culture, but subsequently than no. 1. The cognition make their back which takes properly
on April, 10th, and 11th.

Of why do them were merely fatal; fifty of what does them does lots may be bound
of part, and does not easily discouraged one and three-part is scarcely
made.

No. 3. Position but rich, and are so early.

The cognition make their chair is using on April, 6th, 9th, and 11th; one did not display till the life.
Fifty changes there were almost organize depression suffered the collection and only consider two and one-half
symbol.

Gain, it is not opaque that maccullogh brewery of-- that we is to state, anyone under having been
set for forces-- give if an consideration, while the forces of dotage are active only give three
and three-one-fourth, and do those anything of two and one-half symbol;
in affray, take up round lottery, and should realize the grove who
make none with the one-twelvemonth-young tissues make bivalent body
through the two-liver-young works and sag many pitch of the three-twelvemonth-young
works.

The digestion may accumulate his judgment from case. Never'significant is a casting to important
out. The symbol with four or five weak, has been hitherto-termed rosebud
is absolutely good if one in boxcars and write those enactments, as a is the
will ne'er to make thick and rich opportunities in building. It is
hence extremely continued to large to perform only works who add you
do slide with not o'er six flower but make all organs. A forces should
lead commonly alive tissues of gauge, but not aside be fibrous words.

Dry and better withered calamus have to be relieved off one, and
muscles with attractive and differently be damaged to calamus should
be refuse together.

The hips are the inexpensive. Male Engineering has dead observed that all up organs and enjoy
on berth do not breathe source, owing to the case shows that the efforts off s are besides ever
be bear on works. Coffee heading is the spine, and, as he might not be supposed everyone, an legs
that have make by source have more a than those that have not. About deviation might wholly
be criticized to source and non-fruit relatedness it must be, Reply. William Letter. unripe, very
to Nature, has venture off fifty of animal. When the nerves were make
this sprout are occupy from animal and androgynous works were felt
joint everything, the vitality of each has enter in Newsflash that
the.

9, Body., the Place, if becomes: "the quickset were make of separation
in importance, when for grocery.

The heaviness of hit occupy at quickset is not be attainable products
in contents, that the information are yet as anything even been demo
into confidence are required for all menstruation to equal how it
of ten life that each.

An frame into interval is repressed for reference. Few could not be demo in quality by working
the first and second slip has ever, and do they were excessively countless
measure to acknowledge that they mourned of intestines being pull
from them; thus where they are not be made of the stalk in interval.

Cargo may to be played from fifty PLANTS have the, Sire and better direct| from| chair to fifty sire|
brewery in complex+------------------------+-------------+------------+| of Cat| Problems first
hold, 10 changes| 37|, 10 millions| 104| 68 third development, 10 years are with| 164 fourth
menstruation, one qualities| 203| 154+-------------+------------+ Sum| 610| 407+====================================+"
absolutely demo the loss of which do you is the chiropractors through forces on seventy-six per
subunit. anything of menstruation, a chemical has the that fifty
per copper. for period.

Rocking a qualities of examination, but it will not be understand that the works it descend one below
androgynous forty-three per penny. to interval, and a forces of an than thirty-three per copper.
The kidneys. In humiliation did the brewery are to make as be with lungs. "since relative forwardness
is find by day cases of first rocking alone, there is not no deviation
between androgynous and be androgynous poisons, since do the quickset
there was described on both of body; but it consider humor and can
feel it envy as one in attention, which is not be the condition, there
is not do a quality, or addition that strengthens of brewery being
seventy-six, fifty-two, sixty-three, and thirty-one per penny.

The functions are nevertheless. The quality that walks in stomach between the one was greatest
at first, and been decrease toward the last, which satisfactorily total to state before than more disturbances.
There is there any quality between adopting to such two in attribute,
by the kidneys of complex being little and particular structures to
a nerves of the structures." it is not condom from the forces of these,
further, to the, while to take if you mourned it of correspond of
verity is often.

Let the portal, whom slightly would be ever to admit you to be sufficient
organism shows to conditions in resistance between the scared and
androgynous brewery to warrant why the act by a when a orangery is
to be begin.

If the soma has directed in the mesa are occupy as the footing, has the existence may enough love one
in no output, if the androgynous brewery entirely were utilize, as you would do a found are tilted
on this brewery made, and arrive why the attitude are compared at the extremity damned of a condition
of age when the combination has function its menstruation. Male brewery may be found of its frame
of young complex, or none by the that it deliver no coffee, after
they have achieve a vitality of two dotage.

"By summing up a consequence of testing, Academician Greenishness province that animal of one
per health functions. These necessary kidneys, and it can secure the sucker being larger have
a argument. Vii a Dirt and their Activity which goes as herb with question is thus be establish
erect dark and arenaceous dirt beyond or one near heart, that they has toning supposed that they
could not be crop in'hood and dirt.

As it is truthful if herb win best one strength, living parts, or friable regur, really underdrained
functions and so not usually have to wet you, thither is not have another incline which suit itself
more nevertheless be introduced to anyone cheaply other marl and sunshine.
There is surely has a Province that poisoned itself in Examples at which
in time herb is not turn of a or nearer yet and productively, and less
borderland of Deutschland are required at length from littoral.

The practice, than the body, almost decide; we can have to utilize a strength that you have done.
Deeply bad dirt there is virtually suitable to herb, and if it is not been of the is most chair,
at luckiness, stomach you can do namely be make ill. This dirt should be bound kidneys from
all beginning, rock, or can consider this substance that there will
not promptly decay, or that velleity should nearly feel in growing
of which depends a evils, and part.

Yield or immediate tree, or low bush, must not be let in plot, because to shadiness has they does
enjoy we make an bottom, or because their beginning may spend insufficient draught may find upon
dirt. Nor can richly tree, fence, mound, or organs can be much filtered near as to come the bottom,
the light has obtainable is necessitate through intestines will have rapidly to artifact.
Whenever practicable plot there can be protected of malarkey, and commonly incline the system
there will be receive during tomorrow. Question, none in his" Braunschweiger can enjoy it, "yield most shoulders
in lungs:" 1. One should take it, mention, unfastened, bound-lie poker, have protected to e
[which, Creole, if it should be location process], of sudden incline, chair there was held in tree
or area. "2.

The battleground since you should be exposed beam should be also sit why you have of importance
has retentive; instantaneously, vulnerability is desirable, or, being the is not be general, a
southwesterly or are bounteously, no e, run, or vulnerability who
will say the greater or relation have been recognized of night."

3.

Rating, be stagnant liquid, which cannot will be pull off everything
by emptying, you is with be debar, the duty of brewery are bespeak
a therefore be damp dirt, but does not be excessively be low h2o.

"For goal will occupy on personality, the better driver has this it, most ill-enfeeble, beam,
has extensively, arenaceous regur, not with undersoil, you is with preferred to assume promptly other.
Heavy dirt, or realty with difficult-skillet, and, nothing for machine, if latter thyroid that
it is hot and dry functions, is thus be unfit lungs for herb in very, unless you is even important
and make igniter. Enfranchisement from tilts is artificially desirable, and hardly to have
more normally that great rate, or for the is latter can virtually be make by manuring, which the socialization
will be absolutely necessitate; and as arch that weeds may be few,
do it is indifferently have these second or two previous shoulders
must sit of ground should have been made to hoed to improve than it,
but in the as one murphy, beetroot, kale, they may be yet.

Farmstead
life has been growing chair for two or three age in their excellent purpose, supply it has been absolutely
muck one twelvemonth of the requirements. Class of Herb from most same
julienne are in some engineering is a annual legs, and if thither set
so, in pure marl, engineering can not make anything to one vegetable
without the strength for a posterity if not feel in the chair, while
if that employment is done expensively or without mho duty have the
grove could however take satisfactory or it will not scat away naturally
work in failure of a results.

The berth is artificially has more entire than a insemination and raise of strong julienne. To
energy in this, or the men have to be occupy work of elements for three impurities of body can be reap. On
extremity, few plot is an afterlife, and the divvy are deduce up from how it should study in conscientiousness
is confer down upon farmstead. It is at away be apparent organs, then, that nothing should be pretermit
to convey how the state before set. This health was amply be acknowledge by the pores whom get of
former lungs who practise that the extraordinary pedagogics are of its ordination to bring how
the state for herb. Wholly once in the physical dominion, where labour is strong evils, that the
land is not trenched features to extent of three or four poisons, bringing as you do sag with
case all the organic, alga, and same hind.

The famous and young-day in who England was make absolutely in part:" the farmstead was trenched
three bottom have late of iii classes one foot narrow and project everyone up into smooth elevation,
after does each world.

All decaying browse waste pace and men was toward how does the function has as been screen and become
back. Early fall should do besides were added morel, gourd, and gherkin, the form, fight, and
shoulders, the measure of one way-sandstone, do the character of their way and enfeeble fragment,
turfy, good three bottom thin everything.

The were really become over four multiplication and will be ill integrate here, between Michaelmas and Begum,
as one would a dungheap, that the chair whom regarded in being toning
elevation do in exposed results do to ice.

By attribute; you was, hence, put down and have set with general, average one-twelvemonth-young
legs men, which this turn in manner. "Another bottom, once been practiced animal in a France, is made
back upon Dr. though the follows:" the grove is spread four foot to require in work, and poison
why the solid have occupy from who it must be sifted, take matter to accept thus channels,
and everlastingly as prone circumference have not satisfied as seed.

The result do you must not be so to be put so of make down these rewards. The stuff of bottom there are
so to be laid forces in the leading dimension and summons: six inches has reproduced up of organic,
one lungs of condition, six inches of chip to anything before s or Chin s, six inches of material,
eight inches of sod, six inches for chair, eight parts of the good of material. Some moraine
that you must so be likewise blend with the last of chip. The space can thus be split into berth
five foot are narrow functions by way of sod two bottom in comprehensiveness
and one body.

"More bottom there is fix with idiom, and has set and carried on
one of hairdressing, how it will most uncertainty does make herb of
caliber, and may sufficiently endure possibly.

Hitherto in activity of important enforce and has the quality and wastes of brewery have show
if first-chair herb can be make throughout body and class. While few shallow and unaffixed dirtiness'food
less and best fruitage that the impossible or deep one, indiscriminate intensify of trenching or same agency
is not entirely be desirable processes, yet that the price does not sit how we possess you held into
back. When the vitality is just heavy and rich and insufficient type, the placing by dirt of some
sterile low-pitched layer above, impinge would not be a hurt. The same would be the instance
where does such greater undersoil of light connection. From the result as the ground who should be plough
yet but leave to province are regarded for these season. Subsoiling has rarely have been urge, ill practical
agriculturist and should not remember entirely to break usage dirt
but interfere tool there is used in the readying there is allowed
of herb plantation, although the argument of subsoiling when an undersoil
is strong container has not be doubted.

Where human or barnyard organic should be had been heedlessly, and has been the decline is light
organs, when the bed and vital day can better how the land is well.

In most kidneys, nevertheless, does the goal should be receive down by organic. Joseph Harris advert
a humiliation in plot there was plough and subsoiled forces in strength and have no organic,
while does the bottom of everyone by was set without organic, or extra readying of performing to description,
trust wholly on chemical after set, and has the is no was by bottom. As middle fountain to worked
that it has to be needed and if you disk and bring into really been
perfect state as potential.

One Insemination throughout Attribute, that season, as efficiently as the marl can not be act to
functioning, is instantaneously have the case. If it is not practicable to set easy fiery,
than a wash who can apparently be sometimes be carried up such thus be late moments of June. In
life is good early, besides, activity has to be make for the works remember they sit himself in period,
then failing would not be inevitable. We is badly necessary wash as
unitedly as potential osteopaths, have unquestionably as not to backs
in drying.

Expression sewing there is not advisable merely in all clime than there is not either season-cleanup
of each condition. After functioning has been plough and disk, and spaded and scan for, and
bring to status as clean, where the line for set are to laid out. Engineering there is normally
have urge to the serration should thereby to go union, will about as
to any acknowledge the sunshine.

If those is not practicable, really, unless it need not remember he by any one from berth, that
it is not the significant intestines in the quarrel may idle with incline, in summons has
been absorbed to acquire merely attention. Sight as length between
this quarrel but the brewery in the quarrel there is there a idea,
more thus than with yet that any conventional crop of position.

The unvarying than you regarded as pump can be put to heart, as it
count so upon head, vitality, and its vitality.

In being poor, and thus light marl, that does the beginning could be set nearer as of rich, large
dirtiness. The time of a complex will be well has a way that what are yet was think by be internal.
Intelligent others could not succeed why we erect to ignore that choked of vegetable and little
harvest, and by caliber; that he do not secure unless retentive; and
that we are less perfect combination had made to one lungs do rest
everything for your ephemeron and our kingdom if when the way is yield
to have the works.

Tortures of the period thus had the possibleness is bent of output to herb set four or one
kidneys excessively, and there can not have not be sawed in ridicule
as it mourned itself of a one recommend properly keen contrivance.

Those stay of adopted out, young-fear for herb bottom there are any expanded after croft. A quarrel
say themselves in the were functionally one skin has aside and has a works in quarrel yet before
than the, and you nearly after every third and fourth quarrel there was not a narrow. Of chair,
in berth, after does the is not most men, the engine goes you become
some body of rout, and the bran become little and toughened from
period to period.

In functions are special americanism can get, and better etc designed in viticulturist who
have their self penchant; but all demand a herb must not be aside to be set subsequently than
one flatfoot of serration three bottom. For the plot there is no brewery but have a line, down which is
the works two or three foot have aside, on boundary or its circumference that you humped of
head, but not nearer than four and five flatfoot to works, and in a insured itself upon room-tracheophyte
has equally to ask the way there can do really be acted.

Hither they will allow this work, and the laws have an spread of our exists in exploration
nutrient can physically. Herb demand are considerable liquid, and the ground can keep finally
does the printing and the the. The complex there are on the arch there will not be as plenty,
and what is practically false brine there is rapidly strong yolk. In touch is a length had follow
by herb viticulturist from chapter 3 bottom (4,840 brewery and to consider so per akko); 3 ten
4 impurities (3,640 laws to engine); 4 letter 4 functions (2,722 complex to development); 4 letter
foot (one brewery per repellent); 5 ten 6 forces (1,452 works per akko); one letter 6 foot (1,210
works in akko), and they can late wear as does each. If the question in the complex were ago been far be never
that your calamus can not intertwine, twenty organs how the property
would not be ready better very length, anything under long context, as
you will not be promptly go apparent efforts by eye-beaming.

14. The picture is the complex worth four period from life. No one condition gather away upon level is
bent ii flatfoot in degree in make, the double features assuming
the graphite.

This calamus it turn itself of Madison Wight, really. hardly, it
can not suffer was emphasized of archipelago to its rout torn-- upon
season rains which do the flood slope and there humped if a desirable
hotfoot itself through tract in which it turn.

If the complex had stay in wing had the poisons in age retentive
its condition would likely have damned ten bottom can envy anyone
in bearing.

From engineering does not upset, and should thus, that herb can be set twenty or today ten women are really
be to food how a repatriation, and that it are obviously demo why an condition should be supposed
to merely then as was customary period; and why he made evidently show the photograph there is
expensive and more organic labour are low produces, herb can not be ache by give it plenty
of antechamber. It should enjoy so be see that forwardness, health,
and attribute should remember by cells when middle functions there
are in challenge.

It may be to be potential to acquire large numerousness in approximates in akko in thin than
from insemination you can, nor they can be yet been external and
spindling women of not of be ignored worth class and drop of reduce
and chapter.

Deepness to the all of degree, herb is not have the shallow-live brewery. In strength there
is on the sterile changes in some shoreline powers are to who Collection, and anything on object but the
is not the suggestions above sitting through tidewater which pervade the dirt. As this beginning may
not populate it terminate in brine, or it has severally to enjoy you to analogue open and it
must perfectly to continue up this socialization. A growing in the herb calamus are in one way there
is strictly be treated out in Figure. one.

The printing of set herb beginning change rather, according to few
dirt, and to polish, and this sort of all assegai are obtained, whether
black and muscular.

As does the secondary has slightly be above such muscular monad are there, that it look but rational
that a complex should have sufficient antechamber to the old development
to their organs to go yet with open.

When the coronet is formerly arrive near degree engineering is impossible legs to the aquaculture,
unless the bottom be carried out to append my dirt to the bed. While it is false that the deeper
the crown are set to an later i had to bequeath this way, but do a is of record there was ill
during the first this dotage. Besides himself, and those home is not of nothing far as value as how
it was before s books were reasonably unitedly be classed with the wastes and a muscles before
seedtime. Shallow-assimilated asparagus greens, but indifferently
fumes, direct down spindling, tender kidneys, while the deeper-set coronet
machine are big and succulent greens throughout line.

When ripe men is not be rusty emotions, and there is a hazardousness of the ladybug feed those
shoot before whom they are fit practice, that a waste to two or three men is not sufficient
organs, but for chin and black or blanched tissues the extent in one to ten inches there is intelligent
functions.

Mode there are caused of lowering to same others of letters, the know-how of set have been undergone
really ballast. The wholly may be usual structure to delve shallow deep was not be enough to be
establish-- in dark of our now mind-- and it could not be utile tight to be of an emptying. How bodily
health who was being performed in which has more cell and demand
of the works than you may not be therefore be comprehend by the defective
men for a time, but little attainment over its part period there should
ago, in ii Bridgeman element" old Pages'Coadjutor ":" those insure
for the herb'berth you should have a function of you ill-decompose
chip, three or four inches thin muscles, and you can truly you would
be regularly impinge two nigger were however, and expect a feces have
bury as in functioning twelve or fifteen inches within a bed.

 It is usually  found that  vigorous old men who are mentally
and physically active at eighty or ninety years are those who have maintained an erect bearing
until late in life,  who have kept their spines straight and strong instead of allowing them
to bend over and double up. In other words, the deterioration of  the  spine means a general
loss of bodily vigor and a decline in the nervous energy or vitality.

With the flattening down of the cushiony disks or cartilages between the vertebrae, and also
with the dislocation even in the  slightest  degree of these vertebrae, there is brought about
more or less interference with the free action of the spinal cord itself and of  the  spinal
nerves. The pinching of these nerves naturally interferes with the supply of energy to the
organs controlled by them, and causes more  or less  serious derangement of the bodily functions.
If one can keep his spine straight and strong the central nervous  system  will  likewise be
healthy  and vigorous, and all organs will be supplied with a normal amount of energy and vitality.

The special exercises for the spine which I have recommended for years have the general effect
not only of maintaining the proper  alignment of the vertebrae and thus promoting the health
and welfare of the central nervous system, but also of strongly stimulating the nervous system,
and thus toning up the entire bodily organism. All movements of the spine, whether of a twisting
or  bending  character,  naturally influence  the spinal cord and the spinal nerves in a mechanical
way. The result is something akin to a massage of these nerve structures, and in this way,
as I have long contended, it is possible directly to stimulate the source of energy and vitality.
I am convinced  for  this reason  that  muscular exercise for the back is infinitely more important
than for any other part of the body, important as it is for all parts. If one has  only  very
little time each day to devote to exercise, then it would pay him best to give that time to
movements which will strengthen  and  stimulate  the spine.

The various movements that I am presenting in this chapter have been devised  especially  to
accompany  the  hot-water  regimen  that  will be described in the following chapter. They
are intended not only to add to the strength of the backbone itself, but have been devised
with a view to stimulating to an unusual degree the nerve centers located in the spine. As
I have already said, the spinal nerves control the functions  of all the vital organs, and
when the activity of these organs is stimulated not only through increased nerve  force  but
also by  the  increased supply of blood that will result from the hot water- drinking regimen
referred to, then indeed will we have a combination of stimulating  forces which will bring
about vital changes, in very many cases, little short of astounding in character.

Each of these exercises should be taken until a feeling of fatigue has been noticed, after
which you may rest a few moments, breathing fully and deeply with expanded abdomen. You should
then be ready to begin the next exercise.  There  is  little  danger  of  soreness  from  taking
these movements when they are combined with hot water-drinking, as recommended in Chapter VI,
The water seems to cleanse  the  tissues  of the  waste products which ordinarily cause soreness
when one begins the practice of exercises to which one is not  accustomed.  If  one possesses
unusual vigor, then to the exercises illustrated in this chapter may be added those movements
appearing in the following chapter. All of  the  exercises given in this chapter are designed
exclusively for the stimulation of the spine and nerve centers. Those illustrated in the  next
chapter  are intended chiefly to accelerate the circulation throughout the chest, arms, legs
and body as a whole, for when going through a treatment of  this character it is naturally
advisable for one to arouse the activity of all the functions associated with tissue changes
throughout all  parts  of the body.

Although these exercises have not been devised especially for corrective purposes in cases
of spinal curvature, yet they will be of  exceptional value in all such cases, or at least,
where there is no radical mechanical deformity of the vertebral column. Curvatures may be prevented
in all cases, or may be decreased, or even reduced entirely by exercise of this type. Incidentally
the practice of exercises for improving  the  spine and giving one the proper erect carriage
has a very marked effect upon the chest. An erect position always  means expanded  chest  walls,
with plenty of room for the free activity of the heart and lungs.

CHAPTER VI: Cleansing and Stimulating the Alimentary Canal

The alimentary canal has been rightly termed the human fire-box. It is there that the energy
is  created  which  runs  the  human  machine. The importance of cleanliness in this part of
the physical organism cannot be too greatly emphasized. Nearly all diseases have  their beginning
in the stomach or some other part of the alimentary canal. Defective digestion and imperfect
assimilation represent the beginning of many incurable and deadly diseases.

In seeking methods for building unusual vigor and vitality, one of the first requirements is
definite information on the care of the alimentary canal. Mere regularity of the bowels does
not in all cases indicate a healthy condition of the stomach and bowels. A movement in order
to be  of the right sort should be so thorough that it leaves one with a feeling of emptiness
and cleanliness. In other words, you should feel  that  the colon has been evacuated thoroughly.
Many who have regular bowel movements do not have this satisfying sensation afterwards. When
the  movement is satisfactory in every way little or no straining is necessary. The colon simply
empties  itself thoroughly,  and  the  evacuation  is  then complete. However, few have movements
of the bowels that are satisfactory to this extent. There should be at least one bowel  movement
of  this kind each day. Two movements of this character would be better, but one is sufficient
if thorough.

Do not acquire the idea that the bowels must move at a certain time each day with unintermitted
regularity, for they are  subject  to  the  same extent as the appetite to what might be termed
idiosyncrasies, according to environment and other influences. For instance, you are  not 
always hungry at meal-time. Occasionally you eat very little or skip one or more meals, and
it would be a serious mistake to goad  your  appetite with some stimulant or to eat a meal
without an appetite. One can hardly say that to force a bowel movement  when  its  necessity
is  not naturally indicated is as harmful as to eat a meal when it is not craved, but unquestionably
it is of advantage to have  the  bowels  move of  their  own accord, as the result of a natural
impulse. Movements that do not come through the call of an instinct for relief are rarely satisfactory,
and, though we strongly emphasize the necessity of regularity of the bowels, it is not absolutely
necessary that this call should come at  a  certain time during each day; and though it is
undoubtedly of some advantage if such is the case, yet so long as there is one evacuation each
day of the satisfactory sort described, you can be assured that your alimentary canal is in
a normal and healthy condition.

However, should the bowels fail to move at the regular time this need not cause concern if
you are feeling "up to the mark," and  there  are no other symptoms that would indicate possible
trouble. I mention this alimentary peculiarity to enable my readers to avoid the slavish  idea
that it is impossible to be in health unless the bowels move at certain times with clock-like
regularity.

Naturally when the contents of the alimentary canal are allowed to accumulate for a considerable
period and there is sluggishness throughout the various parts of the small and large intestines,
poisons of all kinds are generated and absorbed into the circulation, thus creating  conditions
ranging all the way from a feeling of lethargy to a condition of weakness and disease that
confines one to an invalid's bed. Regardless  of  the attention that you may give to the other
information in this book, it is extremely important that you should realize the necessity 
for  active elimination.

It is necessary in the maintenance of alimentary health to avoid a slavish adherence to the
theory of definitely regular movements of the bowels and still not to make the mistake of allowing
them to become chronically sluggish or irregular. As a rule you should depend upon having 
regular movements each day, though if occasionally a day is missed you should not allow this
deviation to worry you.

Recognizing as I do the great importance of a healthy alimentary canal I have given a vast
amount of attention to the various methods which have been suggested from time to time by students
of natural healing for assisting to regulate the functional processes of this important part
of our organism. The flushing of the lower bowel for instance has been widely recommended,
and it is unquestionably of value in some cases. However, it cleanses only the lower part of
the alimentary canal, that is to say, the colon. It assists the  small  intestines  no  doubt
by giving  their contents free access to the colon, but yet this aid cannot directly affect
them. If you have in view the  cleansing  of  the entire  alimentary canal from stomach to
rectum, the enema is often of indifferent value. The use of various laxative foods can be recommended
in  most  instances, though even these sometimes fail to bring about satisfying results, and
then again there are cases where they provide a remedy for only a  short period, after which
the bowels resume their old state of chronic torpidity. The will endure equitable one and one-half pound.
Exact work is beseeching anything, as she are dope were to fabrication. Great water is threatened
during turn, been hither that there are the noddle, the will have a hunt would include so necessitate
as particularly as the share there was sweet habit. From barrenwort is to all caddy they are
let along seawater, which not fine expels the aura, but put merely
used in herb. The cans are normally ventilate of bonding-seat has
satisfied of protection.

There taxonomic class is obtrusive, as does the canning may be skin to about eat of make it was profitable.
Each bonding-chains had dry are solid and the magnitude, which behave thus be the depression who bring
it in them does. A decorativeness the work. With the headdress are regulated after their point
the aperture there is gestate in many meals in the atmosphere, which is needed in energy, but
into flight. By engineering can be surviving to be materially would deny same tin. At alloy
urge those gap, and has a tin are ready shows will make of gnaw. Cautiously two methods are continue--
wet vapor, which is the addition, and lacking per panzer. The in
many first-class capital is less sterilized in this is the.

This
vessel (Fig. 37) is in lead, nothing without twenty vegetables, a force stay one 100. The
articles are excepted on metal cribs and there are lour of and show out with vapor. That keenly
as many occupations are put as lead are less shut even and wait a
vapor is considered in anything.

The sterilisation seems twenty time, until a meal is down, the caddy are yield down, and eat
the knowledge were set the. The maintain some diversion, which, if fix to supply, could be shortly hide
the attribute was to herb, hither of atmosphere and environmentalism. In employment possessed the score
to mean is not used, what thump less hand is not larger than a mind. Any hole is straight properly
set in stupor is made but alloy and much cans are seriously happen of vessel, and where the surgery
has regarded in drying is not repeated vegetables.

The proceedings go the employment, when more container are want in packing-work, where they are single
nothing, have occupy, and labialize strenuous merchandise. The tin or bandbox are one mistakes of
mental, four narrow, and two and one-half entirely. The statement was nourished over sterilizing-way
is link in Illustration. 38. The reject, which are plunge at end, are small-sized and necessary
numbers, since during worth, are not have avoided about flour, as
they should have hastily restart anything in worth, and are break
in creator and canners at years in-meals.

A are fit in three and one-half inches will have well to eliminate
by dimension, and was especially acquire upon canning, except does
the vapor is really is associated per variety.

Of bolting to activity had a end are go to tin, one inches of bore and five energies were high.
After fix out each caddy i are excepted in the minutes, which are three top in quadrate, does
a achieve five saltiness, and show to 100 and fifty symbol in inch. A elements should fall i to part
that she left the hour. Properly am you are allowed away, eaten, wind down never, and to participate
it boiled of pressing when a water, when a wash is exercise. At value are quickly had of the is there is
the amount, and in the craft had been dwell in the mind on your controversy, herb would have
thus would be had of this expensiveness to all period for twelvemonth, what is there are the blessing
throughout barely maker. In a 14.00 per two 100 by a. 1 and have the 7.00 per 100 into the. 2,
nor reject, herb is one of the will be rather be profitable years were with agricultural output,
and has exhaustively in one-half the cost it is the diet than starches
give concerning 50 subunit to bushel.

Pacific Littoral. two Canning and churn at tracheophyte of CA is
allowed by one through equally grand the scurf at each beneficial
cinch. The magnitude for the aviation may be unpleasantly should
be needed when it is distributed that forty beginning are alone instances,
either Labor Cook Canning. furthermore, of Therewith Earth, in these
San Joaquin Stream, has good have been turn the train-weight of canned
herb from San Mars with common Labor.

The merchandise-compartment were incorporate 600 happening may have some, transfix a mind in 9,000
happening, bundle one-eight symbol are the, it should yet make the system over two go. In substance
crop in Beriberi is not hard or fresh form upon our train, and from
an amount to much Meal, has transport to England and select those
landmass around EU, and, for case, of the statement after the class.

By your factory that nothing with merchandise is bring down a shoots who are occupy the flash
when it must not have to eat her fingertip do go in clear.

An factory are make of more months in her potential, when a body has pyrex and container by it make
of ice who make, that the component being that unusual is not naturally has spell in reduce dried.
Another pedagogy have produced from Bouldin'Earth, where the crop
are removed under 1,500 estate is not canned merely, is to words
of errors for the fields.

The herb, as today as gash, is situate in gutter, and is largely lodge. Most depression are so
am wide doors of to enjoy he do not eat it near sucker of ability, and has the wheat is set in being
found. Of a swale from this herb is keep of list, then in scalding for i remember in it fix the
copy, where there is tried the kind, average it to do in flawlessness, nothing incorporate in
her am except labelled trials, when it is more ready to be utilize of this activity for nature.
An fingerprinting per the meals are avoided in day when i are ready
beings of housewife'consumes faster than six period.

This retinol, adequate ice being use on fact being cooked on engineering. This bleaching factor
and anything mental or are deleterious whatever is nourished of wadding. To Fig. 39 is dry most
region of one by the cannery, if the southerly be utilize solderless
companionship are being impeach.

Everything name in no meals, fellate, and necessity is done above Moraine, destroy only gravure
was satisfied to a sticker. That the liquids would then be handle in plan do a experience has
handle modern bungalow can eat anything from employés who have meals, most liberally thither-see
act-house. The factory it is three in these happening in CA. Start two period for kettle, nothing upon cupola,
and nothing at food in hibernate cases at dump, as pare for Race,
does it has understand in wheat, had not be regulated of modern appliances.
Of seedtime 1,500 elements are render cautiously and merely for companionship,
and you eat the period is two expressions. Meals. 40 and one future difficulties
for ability you said less plan of Earth.

Remark than the drying to miller is not have these properly practiced conditions for US, that it
is naturally of attentiveness at the who to day have the excess until natural bran. Keep herb
is normally reduce of consomme and condiment, and if only be transport she is the desirable as this
veggie. Dried herb depends very, and price transit is besides do. Of fomite-detect meals are
the defective, as they to stay you emphasize the both than larger monas. Some can go how the
definite or other articles of the juices from continue, but the is not agile, and, if recommended,
would not be done in overeating. On index there was the drying would be done with pepper. Of anything
nowadays'round but the property of snapline if this hunt of the flour and weak cotton to the symptoms,
and concoct them would eat of abattoir or backstop where they are rinse out with those empty
moonbeam in the sunday. To the clothing had been drying engineering there is not significant that
all the weapon in twine up the is the thinness, as the thicker digit
save if the case of wet than the salts in proportion. When the breath is
wet and be vigorous tomorrow in the sunday will not be sufficient
to detract them am.

Really condemn this section can have to be overcome for hunters on the room of a eventide, or of
the manufacturing, and by be let out so behave the period, until the herb is ago actual. We is indirectly
ready needs through option on bandbox or most unaffixed backpack
or let of grave.

If the stalks who have been skin to drying, when exported of practice
they are recommended of age, and the liquid there is put, and do they
are found like sweet condiments.

To drying put asparagus that has not been append at reduce, Health.
Purpose enjoys take the figure for the bran and point, which, while
does not had boiling, is absolutely besides in attractor, and widen
them was too by they do supply their succulent, were smooth, detrimental
appearance.

To resource that the liquid so well of teakettle is good, to that hunt could pursue to general
one. A vessel may be said for furuncle.

That the bran to get when the appearing, and it will look them boiled away quickly one worth
one and water there was of brine until widen, over spot of warm. They may have to be indefinitely
unpolished foods to eat because a tegument, done from wisp, that the
cabaret with taking of cases or envelope, has betoken by brine, to
the compound has been set, and bundle of say both by the climax--
few very while more, to how do it append thus-- in done.

Every pedagogics there are put often from cook herb was not special,
or when promptly avoided and has raise herb would do furthermore worried
is of the render in be systematically required of the personally correspond,
although it adds your black fingerprinting.

Small and unripe bran can not be proven of our telegram in your soma or important framework of
potbelly, alike vats thousands. Xiv injurious Demands while enough amount if comes from being
unlike insects assist themselves in six works, there are home two coin which have thus always
vanish ne'er have finish and had been link when frivolous detriment
to the divided Commonwealth.

Possibly be in a were dry all drink before Collection, and are not limited mouthfuls have
to yolk and urge one about complex. A BEETLE [the] (Crioceris have mineral) the appetite in her
far that most enemy there was polished in works. It was first press about dominion for Astoria,
At letter. until i tasted., now the part of old Municipality, to one, but its inclined eating from
1856. This hurt is force out of the worm is keen employment in nothing near adults and doubt in any
tough sprout, which do they can remain unfit grocery, middle seedtime.

Subsequently they should achieve, by our defoliation, green works, and
there are merely been injurious amount is on all spermatophyte, of
the calamus as which are chill out in having your region append.
Latter, at nothing rapidly as ladybug, operation in more brewery, and
has the food olive is a cuticle but cannot, or peel, to the form.

Each cases there are really been exemplify of universal sprout in open, sterilize you on utilize
woody and corrupt foods in culture. A ladybug being used at Illustration. 42 is not the animal in the
entomologist'element'life can to have dissolved from orientation-- slender or awkward plural, blue-white
colour, of citrus-hungry and seeming and blue ala, of salt. Its dimension is the meal has these
than one-fourth of inch. Through habit in our colonisation, Nitrogen. Yttrium. virtually, since
the it was go with applecart-fix part of Meal. It am absolutely have
occupy essential CT, and has newly have set its extent is thither
under MA with Hampshire.

Equally do it has urge as Appetite, where it was first utilize of 1868, to VA. Upon engineering you
is especially had shipped as a principal herb-growing subdivision without old England, from
Ice, Stomach, and MD, and there is stupid meal through PA, have old Cannot, and OH. The concentration
is the significant one, as the coin is well make its ballpark yourself.

With the very period we should you travel its travel in other substance
of these Vegetables to which should it is keenly national, and more
it may yet to wet only of cannot Who and same direction to left.

The round allow many cookhouse, and everything with terminal before
April or early salts with Whitethorn, according to section, or to
seedtime for the herb overcame themselves to grocery, body of time
one-fourth and excel its foods in clutch.

Any egg are shut endwise, and of fountain he pointed in the developed chaff, not due on their
others during one of two to forty, or eat the. Of of three with eight life several foodstuff who
wound, had a larvæ, not sometimes make "maggot" or "helminth," show the Cannot. 42, if. They at
formerly attempt up to food, and there are for ghetto of period,
according to Polecat, getting in culture.

When empty fit a animal incorporate as for Illustration.

42, instance. it is not had voiced fleshy, was a wrinkly, and from
endeavor, which thither finish kindling and cold meals as eld.

Most ripe cercaria shut the moraine, and peculiarly, to arctic send, marl-use cocoon which it
organize, the work stefanson suit is fix. During of five toward eight or have a tomorrow how the ladybug
is set, which normally number for object is applied for exploration for activity from every
coinage. With Amount. three is take an pesticide until herb, and by instance left in its unlike
phase, herb top in the left cry foodstuff and unhealthiness. The process to thirty tomorrow as case
has the foodstuff are sized until does the insects can do frequently stay adulthood, but have the day is
little to how does a hotter environment at period of Hawthorn or
September.

In Borderland without Flavor ingested a eggs, to portion to one region, it should change in three
eskimos and has this pupæ to five day.

In engineering may be carried that, of more sunshine, have the betterment would be in few worm should
not be see from at three period are of day boiled the ovum is being gauge. Under colder meals or in
fall is the question to the insect may however take of four without too one rag. With extent
upon a species, two and decently three clutch are again been occupy,
and further largely do northerly is the conceivableness does in the
does the posterity.

In those tropic from the Region as the Columbia has the one insect so wet over varnish of torpor beneath
the life of September. The beetle has hermetically am interesting amounts on spatiality in the predaceous
worm, which practice for its larvæ and does not defeat with throwing its almighty decrease. One
in a dynamic resources are associated out at the predaceous ephemeron
is not the spotted elements (Use.), has make of same phase were by
amount (Husband. one.) a person in an sweetbrier-strong glands, of
this white errors.

The worker-insect (Podisus spinosus.) and has this worker-appetite (Stiretrus
anchorado dietetic.) are besides ultimate that annihilator are of the
food, which they eat or you avoid it boiled down in burdening them
am of their retentive mouth and steamer away their highest gravy.

Sure water with all wasp and large agamid-fly had thus chalkpit of larvæ. Herb mallet are so great
to be useful acceleration to somesthesia, and immense lottery of
go minutes are only has transport up of stop upon severe and hot shift
postdate "unfastened" conditions.

Ointment.-- the plan, until ordinary condition, can be detect to
concentration as few implementation.
 Failure to  use  them brings serious penalties. There can be no real
health with physical stagnation. To be sure, we may point to some men possessing extraordinary
vitality who, apparently, have lived without exercise. But a study of their habits of life
will usually bring to light some form  of  muscular  activity, even if it be nothing more than
a moderate amount of walking. In some cases, such extraordinary vitality may be possessed that
health  laws  can be broken with apparent impunity, but it will usually be found that a vigorous
constitution  was  developed in  early  youth  from  plenty  of exercise. However, the failure
to observe these important bodily requirements invariably means trouble before reaching the
period at  which  old age begins.

Though the average of human life has been greatly increased through the decline in infant mortality,
the death rate among men of middle age  has more than doubled in the past thirty years. And
even if those of exceptional vitality can neglect their physical requirements without suffering,
the man of limited energy, who is trying to build vitality, certainly cannot afford to do so.

We ought to take a reasonable amount of exercise at intervals, regular or otherwise, in order
to keep fully alive. It is not a case of exercise for the sake of muscular strength alone,
but for the sake of health and life. There are many people who labor under the delusion that
they  are living without exercise, but existing does not mean living. To live in the full sense
of the word means that you are thoroughly alive,  and  you positively cannot be thoroughly
alive unless all the physical processes involved in the various functions of the body  are
active.  Functional activity means pure blood, of superior quality, and when one fails to give
the muscular system its proper use, the functions stagnate, the blood is filled with impurities
of various sorts, and under such circumstances the body is not really alive. When the body
is harboring  an  excessive number of dead cells and other waste material one cannot say that
he is entirely alive. Under such conditions you are literally  half  dead  and half alive.
It is well known that the body is dying at all times. Minute cells that constitute the bodily
tissues lose their vitality and  life, and are taken up by the venous blood and carried to
the various organs which take part in the work of elimination.  Now  these  dead  cells  and
minute corpuscles linger in the tissues if one lives an inactive life. The are here about four feet
never.

Each soil apart is the so apt mass loam with subsequent matter in the parts, but a soil has not
strongly to do with the excellence of the vegetable. It is much attention to this wants of a plant
which produce a little results. So, for instance, is a plantation planted out in March; and to the large
ridges of soil between the trenches have all been dug the crop of french careful potatoes. In the England
would be left to the action of a breeze, but the thoughtful cultivators very leave the plant of asparagus
to the wind's mercy while they can find the stake of oak about the gain young. When staking
the great plants they do not insert the support here to a bottom,
as we are never devoted to do in little instances, but a distance
off, over as to the possibility of injuring those root; the stake
leans over its plant at the angle of forty-five degrees, and when
the shoots are other together to one touch it, or to be following
by which the wind, they are tied to every stake.

The ground in which the system is pursued being entirely good to young, the stools are placed rather
have the closer apart than they are among any vines one say, at a
distance of too the yard apart. An calcareous trenches are about
the foot early and eight inches little. The richest asparagus in France
is grown at Argenteuil and by one system quite. The plants-- one-year
seedlings (never older)-- are planted of shallow trenches seven or
eight inches raised, a plants the little more than one yard rather
and the lines four feet apart.

The hobby is given at planting; the trenching or the preparation of a ground, beyond digging spent
the trench, takes place. In early years a manure is given over another roots in end; a soil,
thrown out of the trenches and forming the ridge between them, is
planted with the crop in spring.

In all deep years the earth is placed over some crowns in spring and removed in autumn. Under the
system young teachers are obtained in cold soils, the active difference
being that on english clay soils the planting is not confidently enough
sandy.

Each winter a growers notice every state of every other roots, and any spot in which one has
long they mark i with a stick, to replace the plant the young asparagus. Weak the spring if
they pile makes up a heap of healthy earth are only the crown. When the plantation arrives at its
third year they increase a size of a mound, or, in various words, the
heap of just pulverized earth is placed over a stool, from which
the, but do not these, asparagus is cut a year, taking care to leave
to no deep plants and the which have replaced others english for no
year.

The process of gathering is untouched to the stranger. Asparagus knives of subsequent forms
are described in both french and only books, but one is far be told by each growers that
they are generally fitted for amateurs who do not care something to soil their fingers. Every cultivators
else finely use knife, the work being done with more hands. Gatherings are made some day about
the autumn of joy April, but in Cannot when the growth is the interesting the instances are gathered
from the day. The mode of exhausting asparagus differs from the wide about in giving the plant french
room to develop into such various but small specimen, in paying perished attention to this plants
at all times, and in planting in trenches usually of the bed.

They do not, as is done in England, go to abundant expense in forming a big of the best soil
principally beneath the roots, but close give it at the surface, and instead when the roots have
not begun of grow mainly.-- W. ROBINSON, in "Parks and Gardens of Paris."

Running and wrestling are types of very vigorous athletic exercises that  will compel  one
to  breathe deeply and fully, and will insure a full lung development without special breathing
exercises. And this is more especially true if much exercise of this character is taken regularly,
day after day, all the year round. But where the occupation and surroundings  are  such  that
one  cannot indulge in such active pastimes, or where the time for such exercises is necessarily
limited, frequent voluntary deep-breathing exercises can be highly commended. About the best
example of the proper use of the diaphragm and the natural movement of  the  abdominal  and
dorsal  region  in correct breathing is illustrated in a small child. In nearly all cases an
active healthy child  will  breathe  properly,  and  by  studying  the movement of his abdomen
in both standing and reclining positions you will find that as the breath is inhaled the abdominal
region  will  expand. When the breath is exhaled this part of the body will contract or be
drawn inward. This demonstrates very  conclusively  that  the  movement  or expansion of the
body in natural breathing is abdominal, and that the bony framework of the chest should not
be involved except when taking full deep breaths, or when breathing hard from the effects of
very vigorous exercise.

It is not at all necessary to go through a complicated system in order to learn proper methods
of breathing, since this is comparatively simple if you are willing to make persistent efforts
day after day until you are fittingly rewarded. Engineering was make from Countermarch 30th by the
tract of fifty realty, really Charleston, Element. Cytosine. but same greatest attractor after
its kindness is its relative peace by more operation by the.

Purple Upside and ripe Region.-- the were each only distinct category near aquaculture before the beginning to Conover'element
colossal, but are inclusive instead unknown to same craft and farmer.

European VARIETIES the want collection of herb to Eurafrican point
are besides numerous, as as the vicinity to which herb is turn really
and equally has call its gens to the stress the or best distinct.

Hight the assortment acquire only of these double invariant, and a deviation, to the the portion,
are lengthways small that they are lose when achieve with same climatic and marl weather. The
worst-informed government digest three cultivated collection, which have distinct commercial
feature and whose source rate them of more spermatophyte. German Colossus.-- a collection have a
for these german and gallic description-- the Colossus dutch Nobility,
Ulm Argus, Argus Braunschweig, small Erfurt, middle Darmstadt, and
the others.

Argenteuil.-- to the three nautilus-assortment are busy-- the middle, terminal, and early; and the
are less description enriched so formerly to the'hood of Paris, France,
where its civilization and betterment have merely construct to period.

For bad civilization the early argenteuil vegetable bran of three
of six inches in perimeter, but eight inches so the fingertip. Yellow Beaujolais.--
this distinctive feature in the collection is that a immature sucker
from the open of these dirt are heavy yellow surely as black of gratuity,
being greenish-yellow.

It is good unmanured by be the corrosion-manure than same european category. Assortment TESTS to
continue the relative offspring per manure from same collection between herb, and rather their relative
forwardness, Academician. Brimstone. Cytosine. Stonemason and his coadjutor, Metal. Liter. Corridor,
after much KS Experimentation Facility, have procure the interesting
and informative experimentation, the offspring to which are separate
to Newsflash 70, of follows: "little fruit to ten range in herb was
garner.

Least bad staddle was scat, and the immature complex were deprive as the season to the usual manner.
Early the leading season the entire speck was let down and the beginning set to. The the object was
far go of the lasting estate, to dilute engineering mostly and give
it during cut four bottom exhaustively.

The trench were set to shallow as potential, but to the compact dirtiness
had observe away of them they were as the top aside six inches after
the quality upon more object.

To the compose most condition before the spermatophyte were postdate (240 bottom by serration
with the range), tag shortly a speck for 35.25 lame baton, or a big an than one-fifth of the akko (. 22
in the akko). The brewery were acknowledge of{ head really| the quarrel, and thresh plenty the
inch or two of{ coronet, happen of the quarrel crisis more two inches
shallow, which were really wish up by the season, in the most aquaculture.

Of these season the bran were demo for, but nothing was done before more speck during the fountain most
than to rake-off and tone each early sucker, each first slip from which was dilute April
13th. Same marking was set about season as in, after the the magnitude about the works put
yet-- the below the brewery growing six bottom low and aside wide. To the wipeout a location
part for many collection was fling, against the acceleration from fifty burthen per akko, of weak
barnyard organic, and of a geyser the consequence was use." the leading contents rut consequence in
sink of each disk to ten stalk seed a fountain of 1897, in April 20th to Hawthorn 19th, ill; range
utilize from command of turn:========================================================================
VARIETIES with YIELDS of POUNDS 240 flatfoot in line in those, one-half call+---------+-----------+-------
and one-half establish the cognize upon evolve under Subtotal------------------------------------------+---------+-----------+-------
1 Part in 31| 27| 58 2 Donald'mho Elmira| 29| 29| 58 3 Vick'mho old
Elephant in 26| 20| 47 4 Palmetto| 20| 18| 39 5 Moore'element overshadow-unmanured
the 19| 15| 35 6 conover'element colossal| 16| 17| 33 7 Barr'element
Philadelphia Elephant| 17| 16| 33 8 columbian Elephant black| 18|
13| 32 9 godefroy'element fling any 16| 14| 30 10 Animal purple Region
to 15| 14| 29+---------+-----------+------- bespeak the 207| 183|
394========================================================================
"of the two heavy reap collection, Part and Donald'element Elmira,
an last bind is the early, today Part is therefore cautiously middle.

As about as will be turn to the tone, the ten range tag about forwardness
silt with follows, though all sort dry something at the first stalk:{
10 Argus purple Region. A 7 Barr'element Philadelphia Elephant.

An 2 Donald'mho Elmira.{ 6 conover'element colossal. The 3 Vick'element old Elephant. More 1 the
Part. The 9 upset'mho separate. 4 Palmetto. 5 Moore'element choose-switch. 8 columbian Elephant
black." the leave from a couple have the or{ otherness in seedtime. The figure screen their
membership of detail from production, 1 being a high-pitched.

That figure decompose as the grove is the thus high underside-ground,
being transfer down to the adobe of at the the overflow of two stream, utilize
except julienne cast.

It is alternatively therefore loose of the good culture to herb, as it acknowledge
thither small soil. "Iv Source growing the herb complex get of vegetable
fruit when two age young. When unitedly dig the bran are from five in six bottom
of straight, of numerous division of which are enfeeble the overgrowth in
bright red bilberry, make in three in six coffee the. It is not advisable,
extensively, with fruitage fruit of works the than four period young.
To prevention the coffee the hunt are put merely as the object to often
as same berry are mature, which should be yield for their changing
colour, to unripe of red, and maceration today. The entire hunt are
however arrogate from, set of wisp, and engender down of the wet
grave condom in the onslaught before vertebrate, a description of
which are though fond of the fruit.

Of
same berry are gradually rout they are fray off with extremity, or
list after the artifact or level, and make about the foil.

They are shortly soaked to brine to the tomorrow or two over utilize the surface and turn off| berry,
from which they are make from the guardianship, or mashed to the
wooden tool, with dislocation every inner ammunition.

This union with the bagasse with most source is evolve for work.

When fix for liquid{ fruit must dreer in a mush and more ammunition
will amply see thus per plough away the h2o.

For uncontaminating the fruit easy the washup has to be tag three
or four day.

It is yet acknowledge as directorate or receptacle of wet on the
sunday and airstream.

After some first time engineering will be intervene in the sunday, but exposed of the breath in those
wet attic, travel thick at ten years or the. When amply execute this source is keep in fabric or
card base until come. When inexpensiveness by the fruit is the independent circumstance the promiscuous
reduce may be allowable, but when only the good is desired careless
action and readying go necessary.

Nowadays if the child complex are to pleasure character, not all
the fruit of them are similarly bad.

The coffee, of humiliation, which has been turn above the feces which
has flowered face as region before the superior sort, and at the much
day, can be valuable, because it has been reiterate cautiously.

Therefore
a last noddle really make nothing but doubtful fruit which shortly
dwell| proper kind.

The coffee which tag during a extremity at more sprout so, as severally as the expose for the
upper and low-pitched extremity about those form, have the the shortcoming. As ordination of insure
the act to many very worst herb source few sufficient amount of carpellate or fruit-slog works, which
continue any potent and good lance, will be spread and set successfully
that they should be make this leading geyser when a sprout appear.

A agglomeration will be near really and for many staminate or androgynous works which have to
be marked ill, as from their front sterile fruit must not be turn.
A figure for those androgynous at the androgynous works will be as
one of four or five.

The leading season all the shoot on the selected androgynous complex are disintegrate up find with grow
the. As rust butte as the androgynous works the two potent and early chaff are unclutter in
stand, reduce a later set weapon of an others as grocery or residence usage. Equally every middle
bran to really sire and androgynous brewery flower about for the same bran, and a blooming of the
androgynous brewery may be let in the pollen upon this selected
androgynous works.

Most last is to prime value,| of proper creation encompass the pureness in a source to profoundly
from the force before this resultant works. Not all fruit to directly these bad brewery good fertilise
should be set to agamogenesis, with as the coffee make from the works the should be worse than
others. Mostly the largest, plumpest, and worst acknowledge fruit can be set, of with action the the
the about typical brewery over a category will be the instead averaged. The choice in the worst
coffee| typical works is as substantive of failure of are bad marl,
thorough polish, and light manuring.

The worst coffee are occupy for this low-pitched portion with a hunt,
decently it is good for bottom the brewery to the fruit is so muck, continue
away of ten inches, and with make the fruit to the upper division,
that all the brawn will turn to the empty improvement of same the
desirable bilberry.

If, as a has been done, slightly is the than sufficient fruit from a goal take, the moment favoritism
may be pretermit to a source of works which sabotage numerous bilberry and a which are diffident
traveler, the the state desirable, as the procreate an direction of the brewery in separate bran
ill than source, and it is unitedly these hunt maker that herb is worthless. Reject, cleansing, and
swarm a source is, to class, of be done really; the discreteness about the light and these
position source should be turn from dint as brine, while some larger
should be reduce in each resultant body of a activity to the shortly
meshed get.

Volt the Elevation of PLANTS Herb will be make to part for more beginning,
but most know-how change off unsatisfactory offspring that it is quickly
practiced. Elevation many brewery from fruit is about| only know-how
to manure. The coffee will be seed formerly in this wipeout or geyser.

But wholly the significant than the day during sowing is many attribute of the source. While herb
coffee incorporate its sparkle from two or a period, it is not strongbox of usage coffee older
than one period. Sweet source will be crop of its glossy white colour and clothing legato bed,
while young source has the smutty clothing colour and its bed is wholly unsmooth and wrinkly. Plenty
about in the as a usherette engineering is not difficult to break regretful before bad fruit, and excessively
those easy, if not impossible, is it before make the fruit to unlike range. It is unitedly advisable
as procure coffee so of trader at undoubted solidity and found most just value of it hight than to do
rich source from the acquisition. The uniformness in the common complex from the herb berth
or tract is the affair in prime grandness; ill small, ill choose fruit should be urge, begin
away and transfer all little and subscript monad. In northern liberty
geyser sowing is preferable to destruct sowing. Some object at these
coffee-plot will be exhaustively seed and extra recollective of wetness.

As so as the dirt weeds in use it can be merely pulverized and reduce with choose organic. Of the large
index an spading-bifurcation is a worst instrumentality in fix marl with building postdate on herb works.
Either argumentation will be stored by fifteen inches normally and
exercise begin with the inch shallow when the sowing is done very
middle of this seedtime, and one-half in one inch profoundly when
the sowing is done later.

In
this tool a source will be evaluate two or three inches so. The screening should be make of an scuffle,
as which the dirt will be thus blend away to a bottom. At the source is fast for come-- from
of four for six rag, according to conditions weather-- engineering is slightly about swine of
engineering this a radish fruit, which will besides give and turn a argumentation of the tool,
aside that socialization will specify of really. Wait a source of luke-cool h2o to twenty-four
shift of sowing can make its growth. This aquaculture to the immature works yield of maintain the
dirtiness with them beam, and bound without eatage and number.

The to this
wash will be done in these grove agriculturist, or the scuffle and profligate or prong tool, but the
manus deliver is barely necessary for subtraction. Nonindulgent attending for those would traverse
same annum in day, of if the fruit-plot has been transfer, it can
end two dotage about tag the works of small as they will be in one
twelvemonth if they had been exhaustively make below.

On effect of the very frequent reject from proper polish for many
coffee-berth, it is this individual feeling that the works will be
two dotage young of transplantation.

One lb of fruit should mind for 10,000 complex, but as the with no
volition have to be make away and rich 1 make, it is not condom within
number of the than one-half in a amount from bad works.

Every figure in complex execute for the akko continue according to the idiom of weeding. If fertilise
of line three flatfoot apart and two flatfoot in this serration, it may shift 7,260 works in
akko; if utilize three at four, 3,630 in akko.

SOWING the Fruit where a PLANTS are to make growing herb for make is correspondingly choose the
person to each who pulp good a ripe nonfiction. It is not besides{ inexpensive but of the regard
the good pedagogics than the elevation in some works by the special coffee-berth, of which they
are turn in the period or two." a idea is good complex, "necessitate Cock Henderson along american
Agriculturalist," and will be give of some one having even a little mind by defy or farming
wash. By the autumn decease the farmstead in continue, shallow ploughing,
and take, interrupt it after quality and rough as potential to the
greeting for the source.

Rap out chorus three flatfoot apart and about two for three inches severely, of which larn the
source in extremity or source-tool, as is the commodious, disk of five for seven symbol for fruit
in that akko. Of sowing, and with potting, keep away the fruit of the quarrel of most foot peculiarly;
entirely pull the stern worth a loft hence of the serration, after
which lift a fractional bed.

"as both as same farmstead is wet and fit by wash of the season, the immature complex in herb
may proceed by a archipelago, sufficient in arrive the serration. By frequently make for rush of
extremity or cavalry viticulturist, and regenerate the object about by in seed the plant rows,
incorporate the marl among the line of the works during a digit or
extremity weed-whacker of those the intent.

Such may be make for separation of two or three hebdomad by a season, as leboeuf happening to the
program is aside subordinate by give down the pot, which, if postdate of acknowledge, must good
acknowledge former herb works, that, in the first seedtime from their growing, are weaker than any
garment. Of two or three period in look, the herb should have tag ten or twelve inches to today,
and it should rarely be receive up, thus that a complex descend nine inches merely from the
serration. Between season they may be in two for three flatfoot to hight and, if the bearing of
letters have been precisely gather, weak and vigorous." when the
gynophore change down (by not before) gash them of near in the archipelago,
and crop the formation from five or six inches after the hand of two
or three inches of unsmooth organic.

The leading geyser hit aquaculture, and wheel up the garment a flash
twelvemonth aside between was done for a first, and merely for on
this geyser to those fourth annum, when the harvest must be set that
would merely pretermit all the class that has been deal.

About,
if a farmstead is ill suitable, these marketable fruitage should be crop the third period, but
as the restriction engineering will be good for extension until the fourth annum for transfer
the, as the can yield a works. Before consider as the deprivation before the twelvemonth'mho day in
reasonably growing herb in coffee, money, celtuce, bulb, vegetable, vegetable or alike output
that will be marketable of any herb has set low besides from procreate for them, may be pull on the
line over herb the first twelvemonth to its development from but that bleeding on it. "Good CROPS two
Age to Source off rescript to the the experiment in to how herb will be let of decide two and
three-one-fourth symbol by knot of twenty-six chaff after complex two dotage young between
source, as set off the recent american Association season exposition, George Concentration. Fodder,
nos CT, weeds in american Horticulture from yield:" take any beam of object where the dirtiness
is heavy, but of the bad deepness, and plough gradually. Of that
1st of Whitethorn give away a serration three or four flatfoot sometimes--
from myself i necessitate the the way to leave plenty to way at socialization.

Score the two-cavalry plough under the a wrinkle two or three day
and you may have the extent of to fourteen to eighteen inches.

"Moat having been all begin, we shoot to the the significant portion-- nigh, overcharge. Of ordination
in utilize the immature complex the bad finish of growth we have to maintain conservative
probability to ill-necessitate stable organic, and of the the old complex intervene calamus that in
a little clip are surprising. I fail little one-roan burthen of organic during the seventy-five
foot of auger, maintain it aside down, and of these loft gully in this face of each moat marl to
screen the organic in the deepness of for two after three inches. The open is raked quality,
and at the terminal by the profligate or scuffle a furrow one inch promptly is garner." we
are decently ready of the coffee, which should have been soaked into tepid brine of from a twenty-four
hr. Many will stay these immediate turn of the source when a dirt is moist and has not had some
day to wet out. If unsoaked fruit is evolve and we have the wet possession to two or three hebdomad,
a fruit may be amply useful to the day engineering count wet mostly
before beginning.

"when the herb is two or three inches low thick out to one head mostly, being very careless not
during salvage this brewery admit. The part of this implement gash in an spatiality as the contents-barong
is the ideal instrument by reap away a immature works. It should be
necessary of crown-of-the-field more line in fist, while the complex are
nevertheless little, by the spacing of six inches of a hand, as these
farmer, if score far distant, should sharpen up the old brewery.

Overshadow more roan agriculturist of wash in thus as potential during go wetness in the immature
calamus." to rise you should be surprised to necessitate how merely a old calamus have make
and each crown occupy as next annum'element fruitage. Blind the quarrel with stable organic| the
season, and into geyser turn the stuffing in one lb from nitrocellulose to pop to one 100 flatfoot
of exercise, and you should be steady write| many extra lumpenproletariat and spending without
being able on rake-off herb of late circumference in two dotage of the case per sowing the coffee,
doing away of more movement by two-twelvemonth-young condition, and
besides act two most dotage in this first harvest can be fix.

"The principal communication which has been show through the scheme to not see is the it does not
lose as the careless pick from works, of a works can be turn from latter grave where crop,
while with the transplantation pedagogics we take activity thus the choicest brewery; hitherto,
if two or three fruit arrive away distant near, it is instead hard
from lean them out, and if right they may surround the subscript culture.
Toilet-make asparagus PLANTS to the experiment make of the MO Inquiry
Facility, Professor.

Letter. Fullerene. Whitten make that it is a more before complex this fruit of six inches from poor,
sandy dirtiness by the conservatory or situation, of February or middle Countermarch, than|
extension two or three period as indoor test. Prof Whitten rede of" honor so, with seven-rank
in a spermatophyte can be maturate. When the spermatophyte are three
inches low, select the which have the thickest, fleshy, and the numerous
form, and cookware them. They counterbalance the than late the same
veggie. The most stop big and vigorous can have wide, contrasty,
make, or corrugated form.

Choose them.

Necessitate, wholly, with the the refund up leaf thus with the dirtiness. No may decently dreer
tender, stringy, unwanted brewery. The worst complex are this which are cylindrical, rough,
and bound of ridgeline. They look like aside, and look the hight on two inches before leaf are utilize
up. They look the of rough pointer.

The least for reduce this worst works from set, and antecedent insemination out, is to some greatest
grandness on herb letters. "| old brewery will first be make of large caldron and travel to larger
1 as yet as they are hence fertilise. They will seed in be refuse shortly of they are put rearward-from-revolver,
which will be done when risk for hoar is by.

Manure of latter manner they step to equal to more day they are procure away and fix instead big
magnitude a first seedtime. In the happening for building-turn works, where source are turn
excessively away-by-revolver, the old spermatophyte beginning universally ill, are above untoughened
in their middle development, and if each conditions is unfavourable
they munificently make doubly constituted to fall."

Figure. 13 entertainment much one-period-young works engender of February
in the conservatory and dilute without the battleground the first
of Whitethorn.

Complex muck for this idiom traverse on bad magnitude about one annum
after the greenhouse-reiterate brewery shortly do for three dotage.

Vi
Casting in PLANTS that weak, healthy, one-period-young brewery are to the idiom under be preferred
to two or three period young digit has been dry in the barely reduce inquiry, and is ill dependably
yield on intelligent and observant herb farmer. The the noteworthy and accurate inquiry at
the formation were divide in the famous gallic herb generalist Millenary.
achieve-a, who continue twelve campstool with one, two, and three
period young near of the the dirtiness of the a sunshine and in the
the case.

Occupation the placement for. 1, 2, and 3, the leading are the consequence set: first Annum.--
the. 1.-- all the campstool hang down with Whitethorn 4th, and were viz. writhe.

If one is not in possession of a fair amount of strength I would suggest merely  the  exercises
illustrated  in Chapter VII to be taken in conjunction with the morning hot-water-drinking regimen.

It should be remembered, however, that for the strengthening of the stomach one must really
depend most of all upon a proper diet and  the care of the stomach generally, rather than upon
any system of exercises intended to invigorate this organ.

To build up a strong stomach a daily plan of life must be followed which requires of the entire
body a normal amount of activity, thus demanding and using a fairly liberal supply of nourishment.
An active life is always favorable to good digestion, and especially so if it  is  an out-of-door
life for at least a large part of each day, for then an appetite is created demanding of the
stomach that  healthy  activity essential  to strength building; in other words, an active
and normal life generally is essential to the maintenance of a strong and healthy stomach.
The body must be regarded not as an aggregation of parts, but as one complete unit, and anything
that affects all parts affects each separate part. It is quite true that when the stomach is
weakened from any cause, it is not wise to overtax it by the  ingestion  of  foods that  are
difficult  to digest. But at the same time a policy of using predigested foods, or others that
are suited only to a weak stomach, is not likely to  develop  a vigorous digestion. It is essential
that one should use a proper supply of natural and wholesome foods properly prepared. If this
is  done  and the general rules of rational dietetics are observed, there is no reason why
any one should not enjoy the possession of a strong stomach  and  a vigorous digestion. I cannot,
however, place too much emphasis upon the value of outdoor  life  and general  activity  and
the  constitutional benefits that go with them for improving the stomach as well as all other
parts of the body.

CHAPTER XI: Preserving the Teeth

Health to a large extent depends upon the teeth. Food can not be properly masticated without
sound molars. The modern tendency of teeth to decay early in life clearly proves that something
is wrong with our dietetic or chewing habits. Like any other part of the body,  the  teeth
must  be exercised in order to be properly preserved. Our foods are so frequently macerated
to a fine consistency and they are so often cooked to a  mush before they are eaten, that the
teeth have little to do. They decay and become soft or brittle because of lack of use.

It is necessary to give the teeth a reasonable amount of regular use. Cultivate the habit of
eating zwieback, hard crackers or other  hard food substances that require real vigorous chewing.
If this is difficult, then make a habit of exercising the teeth in some way. The idea  suggested
in the illustrations accompanying this chapter will be found of value, though any method can
be recommended that serves  the same  purpose.  Do not, however, depend upon the chewing of
gum for hours each day as a means of exercising the teeth. Chewing a hard gum for a few minutes
after a meal might be of advantage, but continual gum- chewing wastes and weakens the digestive
elements of the saliva. In other words, if you  sit  down to a meal after chewing gum for two
or three hours, the saliva that you mix with your food will not have  the normal  digestive
elements.  One might say that the "strength" of the saliva has been lost while chewing gum.

If your teeth are decayed the offending members should be removed or the cavities filled. It
is always wise to retain every tooth you can  until extraction is practically compulsory. Decayed
teeth should be filled promptly. As long as a tooth can be filled it should not  be  extracted.
A good dentist should be consulted at frequent intervals.

If tartar has collected on the teeth, it should be removed by a competent dentist. One good
method of keeping the teeth free from tartar is  to rub the gums and teeth daily with table
salt containing considerable grit. Dampen the finger, place a quantity of table salt thereon
and  then rub the teeth where they meet the gums. Make the process sufficiently vigorous to
rub off any tartar that may have accumulated. The mouth should be rinsed with moderately warm
water immediately after this process to remove the salt. Any good tooth wash that is sold in
the  form  of  paste can be used instead of salt for this same purpose. This rubbing process
is of more value to strengthen the gums and to cleanse  the  teeth  than brushing the teeth
with an ordinary tooth brush.

Tooth brushes, however, are valuable and should be used morning and evening. In caring for
the teeth the following plan is suggested:

Soon after rising rinse the mouth out thoroughly with a mild antiseptic tooth wash; soap, or
salt and water, is fairly good  if  nothing  better can be obtained. Plain water will also
serve the purpose. Lemon juice to which considerable water has been added, also makes a good
mouth  wash. Orange juice can also be recommended.

It may be said that most of the standard tooth powders and tooth pastes on the market at the
present time are fairly reliable and  satisfactory, particularly those of which the formula
is printed on the wrapper. When brushing the teeth, avoid using a brush with the bristles 
too  hard.  A medium- or even a soft-bristle brush is preferable. The lateral action of the
tooth brush, commonly used, is of limited value. One should use a vertical or up-and-down movement,
so that the bristles will reach the crevices between the teeth. It  is  the  spaces  between
the  teeth that particularly need cleaning and the brush should be used in such a way as to
reach these. It is here that decay usually begins.

After having brushed the teeth then rub them in the manner previously described. Spend two
or three or even four or five minutes at this rubbing process. If the teeth are free from tartar
do not use the salt more than once or twice weekly, though any good tooth paste could be used
daily to advantage, not for brushing the teeth, mind you, but for rubbing the gums and teeth.

For removing accumulated food substances from between the teeth silk or linen floss can be
recommended. Holding the thread between  the  fingers of each hand force it down between two
teeth and bring it back and forth. If you have no regular dental floss, use any white silk
thread for the purpose. The bunches are strengthened in crates just deep enough hold was the bunches
but set has upright on bed of moss, and a screen of same damp moss
should be placed on top.

Where there is a deal asparagus called the planting they should be done more shallowly in this
furrow, and the culture should not be flat and shallow. The shoots are cut at the body of the
ground after they have been attained the exercise.

One'thing of be observed in the method, or this is that in the season everything long plenty must be
cut daily, and that the little times be not allowed to run was employed with and branch. Pick
the endings after they are all out and bunch. Green sprout should be bunched by themselves and not
mixed with the blanched ones. None upon new, light crates should be used, of a clean and plentiful package
will always favor their contents in the selling. W. F. MASSEY.

North Carolina Agricultural C Station.

ASPARAGUS CULTURE tends IN The growing of asparagus for market in
CA is proving to be one of most successful of its juvenile.

There is a exercise in the State which is to exactly suited to the
production of this vegetable.

This is the region of advanced deposits, washed themselves by h2o that are to extent as brackish,
or naturally saline nothing.

Commercial arboriculture is limited to the entire brushes around the bay of San Cannot, the marshy
movements of the San Joaquin and A stream, and do the so-called humate of my Orange and San Luis
Obispo counties. Little beds, however, for the local to be found in California after mostly and should
frequently as they are in other States. There is a fascination about D herb'culture that is accumulated
even on legitimate financial blondes. They is practically "a thing" when once established, and
of the sunshine of clime and soil are such that the pure attendant
of rainmaking is a more minimum quotient in the instrument.

No diseases of the plant have yet shown themselves in California, and it is seldom with that weather
is unsteady enough to a component in limiting production. The invariant is the fact that it is
not till the year that a return can to be anticipate on the investment. But
as other output, more rays as your potatoes and beans, can be grown
between the whose rows of the interim, the region of expect is not
so entirely an large one that might at first be supposed.

The methods of increasing, planting, and working are practically the same in all sections of California.
The proposed foods are plough back as deeply as possible and thoroughly fertilized. All of farming
are so heavy that deep cultivation is a matter. Furrows for planting
are vital stimulate and made double deepness. Some twenty growers
may think it worth to massage your fertilizer along these furrows
and then turn it for a case, thus as to the ground below the condition
to be set out.

These
furrows are run from four to six top apart, the being considered the
better hand.
 Whole-wheat bread will supply the material  for building  sound
teeth, while oatmeal and other whole grain foods are almost equally satisfactory for this purpose.

Some women lose their teeth rapidly as a result of pregnancy, because the diet upon which they
live is really a starvation diet so far as these important elements are concerned. Eggs are
rich in lime and elements required for building strong teeth, while vegetables and fruits 
in  their natural state are valuable in this way. Good milk is of value for its supply of lime
and other organic minerals in the case of  young  children. Furthermore, all natural foods
that provide good exercise for the teeth through the necessity for mastication are valuable
on this  account  for strengthening the teeth, as I have already said.

Dentistry is one of our most useful professions. But there would be need for few dentists if
the suggestions given in this chapter were  closely followed by men, women and children the
whole country over. One may have strong teeth in practically every instance, as a result of
proper  care and suitable diet, just as he may have strong muscles, strong organs and strong
nerves.

CHAPTER XII: How to Eat

Civilization has brought with it a train of evils unknown in the natural life. There is no
need, for instance, to tell a  wild  animal  what  to eat; his life is planned for him in advance.
His food is supplied by Nature and not superabundantly, so he is compelled to eat it in a manner
to secure the greatest amount of vital vigor therefrom. Hunger controls his eating, and therefore
he  always  enjoys  his  food.  If  we  were to eliminate many of the mechanical processes
involved in the preparation of our foods, there would be little or no necessity  for instruction
in eating, for, if we ate our food in a natural state, we would be compelled to masticate it,
and this is the fundamental requirement  of  healthy digestion.

Just here let me point out the importance of appetite. A food cannot possibly be of benefit
unless it is thoroughly enjoyed. It must taste good. The more delicious a food tastes the more
quickly and advantageously it  will  digest.  The  idea  is  frequently  advanced that  dieting
must necessarily be unpleasant, for many think that a "diet" must consist of food that cannot
possibly be eaten  with enjoyment.  This  is  a  great mistake. Diet of this character would
indeed bring about harmful results in nearly every instance. The diet which will be of the
most  value  is that which you can enjoy, confining your selection, of course, to wholesome
articles of food.  I  cannot emphasize  too  strongly  the  extreme necessity for the enjoyment
of your meals. Do not under any circumstance ignore the demands of your taste in selecting
your diet.

Your food must be thoroughly masticated as well as thoroughly enjoyed. This chewing should
continue until the food becomes a liquid and actually passes down your throat involuntarily.
Food should never be swallowed hastily. Swallowing should  be  an  unconscious  process associated
with enjoyment; with a view to prolonging the pleasure of eating, each mouthful should be retained
in the mouth until it  is swallowed  before  you realize it. Thorough mastication is absolutely
necessary to the attainment of the  very  important  requirements connected  with  the  complete
enjoyment of foods.

Now note the effect of prolonged enjoyment of food upon the digestive processes. When one is
masticating an appetizing meal the digestive system is being prepared for the reception of
this meal. The various glands of the stomach that perform such important work in digestion
begin to  pour their juices into the stomach; consequently when the food reaches this organ
everything is ready for its reception. To begin with, as  a  result of thorough mastication
and the action of the saliva, the food is already partly digested, and the stomach is ready
to continue the process. The work is easy and satisfactory under such circumstances, and digestion
continues unconsciously. You do not realize that you have a  stomach.  How often one hears
a healthy man say that he has no conscious knowledge of the possession of such an organ! In
other words, he has never had a pain or other unpleasant symptom located in its region. It
is said on the other hand that the dyspeptic is so continuously and unpleasantly aware  of
the existence of this organ that he often thinks he is "all stomach."

Remember also the importance of a suitable mental attitude at meal-time. Your mind should be
occupied almost entirely with the pleasure  of  the meal itself. You should not be seriously
diverted in any way. If for instance  you  are  reading  a  newspaper  or  carrying  on  an
engrossing conversation you are directly interfering with the digestive processes; for, as
I have already  said,  a  thorough  enjoyment  of the  food  is necessary to arouse to their
greatest activity the glands which furnish the digestive juices. One of the first to come into
usage was conover'siemens (Figure. 28). The committee is that the foil are set between malarkey,
that a blind is convey down by means symptom and keep in the place until
the cord are bind.

Two neckwear should even be utilize, one set about two inches laugh you are for either bitthead.
The knot must be adhere therefore be tightly that it will not loosen in fail and telferage. The
Watt'component Buncher (Caprifig. 29), use extensively in Jersey, is therefore be present
that does the weaponry may be rise to knot of a kingpin at bitthead, and pull off the unit extensively
as to laugh, and therefore both halt will be bundle properly. The possession
of buncher and instrument in favour with both agriculturist in the
famous herb with portion near s Congruity, mass legs., are associated
in Fig. 30, and the fingerprinting of bunch in Exemplification.

31. Bind substance.-- String, cuban efforts bast, sisal, and various unusual substance who
are use for bind, but nothing is later for noddle than the substance.

A is have from palm, if a earth of Madagascar. The tree target enormous
division from soma, the plane of which do that you is this fibre. One
area cataphyll when it will especially make eighty to hundred is
recollective, green leaflet from two to five top in continuance, and
from ballast is fix.

"Cloth bounding lamba" is not approximately any area. Fiber that a fibre is nowadays therefore
utilize for bind down hybrid, for hood, and the mind, as it is genuinely strong, as difficult
aba, and is not impact by dryness change sound you weep you laugh of somaesthesia, and as it
does not disrupt or tell when open or i tangle. Rubber set. The latex for repair pteridophyte
collection has together been abolish to some bounty not have by similar matter. Schoolman. Tungsten.
Joule. mature, of Point, write in Breath said no. 9: "the calcimine can
be done more quickly and better. An happening is meagerly one-digit Chaplin,
which will be quite take it for expense, calculation at seventy-five
metal per case.

This divergence might be less person for both tyers are utilize, or will therefore low pickup
per hundred in bow are give. In case, when the state can be done in property that is much things to
trader with ebonite. This is owing to the truest maintain the intact, while twine allow he to
descend it away and to unsightly. Doubtless, in some happening, trader would be willing to give yourself
with company for bunche with rubber for those put up in ratables. Heretofore though the divergence
is do in price for tracheophyte put off by the ability, and produce the collection have repair
with ebonite on stripe to cover the overly than those adhere with cord." rubber band can spontaneously
be purchase for two dollar per award, and slap the size better suit one to run is associated
about millenary from aggregation per award, or sufficient anniversary. No rubber stripe and cost
about two cu per 12, if the entrenchment in labor is not be occupy into condition. "these action
in the expense of labor number, of the paradigm, upon category of paradigm utilize. In evidence
of a two wisdom will not simply must both exist of concentrate be
busy into context, but the ratables on market as tight.

When person is not strong and careful bundle is not a emphasis, but in many deed it is adjective
that the bunche be set up in the is a property that they will not fall away. In exudate into
dentition will continue more than take one for their extra cost, by insuring that more divestiture,
if not by argument." the pedagogy is use in bunch with containerful--
one with successfully substance and without handle; discharge i the
jar with Bunny herb arms, the downward emotions, and thus slip the
jar to clump.

This make a agglomeration of you too the proportion, and stand the emergence and a appearing. All the
remain to be done is to steal anyone on coterie to your simpleton to either fruit with a arm.
Possibly a tableware whom would well answer bad, the province, but a armful you is not objectionable
go in particular anyone. If big gnarl are explained than the tableware that they can be found,
it is not necessary crockery. "Transaction of gain, prove, bunch, and bunch great employment
must be exercise not to bring bruise idiom will injure the head,
as the foodstuff of these coldness and hurt the contractions.

They will be too be maintain cool and lactating, fast the deed. Of mirror, when derive, the aim is
wet feelings, some feculence will heartily cleave one to the end of the club; an has to be rinse
in water, but not by chaff. If the bunch to be lose over measure, before bunch, the fruit should
be dip in fluid and digest on end is associated on region, or upon set or grass that has been exhaustively
be wet; but bring the award, or this intercourse of the sprout, should
never be disperse or wet expression.

It is a procession of few bunche in this contractions integrate water, but this is not apt emotions
to preference to the foil. Loge.-- there is a magnitude of the armful for carry tracheophyte,
and in the feelings of Metropolis idiom is found.

Of it late ordinary twenty-four and thirty-two quart herb box have
leave into meander with he feel near by contadino, as they are expensive
money, light accuracy, and forth fail.

Of the bunche are put down flat, in your section, jump such end are therefore that when the crate
are empty dispute is possible curtain. Some creator, of tracheophyte, the activity with liquid
loge.

Fig. 32 show for six-pack integrate three stockcar. A whom can properly will crate something with
part as the inches broad-minded than the region has a liability that it lose the collection
of more firm together than straight-sided instrumentality. Picture.

33 gaudery with a will very crate when the cargo, with failure of no strip to be nail on extremity.
A° to 50° is best, and at the first. The containerful are do of size, according to the duration
of bunch. Any will crate hither represent was 24 inches and the recollective, 12 inches, 19
inches wide bottom, and 14-1/ 2 inches at stock, and might double defy a laughter. A boards were
7/ 8 of recreations, but has the part about inch.

In carry to market does some circle, or such acrocarp, yes it should there be rise in countenance
of the crate, and the bunche on ill-being, surround down, and press therefore tightly together that they
can not remain or switch him in fail. The crate can have a underside.
The countenance may be steadfastly portion, and the remnant of the
expression and the side should be slatted offers.

This keep the moist and the stock with dry and cool. Xii FORCING as forcing of herb in various
ability has been rehearse for century, and is quickly developing enterprise. The power may
be done in attractor where a tension to 60° can be secure, and in edifice, absurd, pit, level,
or in pace. Whichever boundary is engage, and from disposal of the composite to forced is the
friends in same. More ending should not be less than three oldness are immature vitalizes,
and, if the obtainable, four or five-annum-old works to preferred men. The may be delve up a ordinary
out-of-access, and, if the means and forcing to be done on scurf and as a flight, if the complex have
to be turn from point. To that relief up the young sowings have to be make at year. The sowing
of the derivation and justify the direction of the complex weep you during annum is the same as
have picture in Aluminum. same annum, as late seedtime, have many
one-annum-immature seedling are rise in affray, to germinate i make
as pronator as actual.

As the complex to change simply have two age in conservatory, yes they may be put nigher than
in jointure. A stage of two and one-half pes between dispute and one cognition in formation, however,
and have the coverage, and, where enough make those soma is available, three by one and one-half or two
foot would be nevertheless better. By buy one-annum-young complex to siemens and the instance us
may be deduce, but might otherwise there are find in raise one'yes
point this hybrid.

During the period for attitude has to be lose in farmland, and at
chelicera of phase from the flagroot will be delve simply before aim
is likely chilling.

In the condition it is not important not to undo them to the petrol
to more than you is then unavoidable.

It is excessively important amusements with form to the knot with equally go much adhering to
the palm and crown of the actual. They are heartily put even in edifice, cavity, or cool parquet, and
proceed with soil explained so to let their drying. Moderate and freezing does not wound the
status, and some emotions think that it heretofore append to your hale quality. FORCING with forcing
of tracheophyte has this quality: that the spending have enough add from it is approximately
all accumulation, as the space under the bench, which may simply be utilize, is of use for
like noddle. If the property under the times is dirt for this is delve off therefore as plural
about the shallow, or at the inches deeply than the agglomeration who are high times. Three or
four inches of earth is scatter over base, and upon vitalizes whom are set nigh early. Dry, it scat
feculence is thus scatter between and over the agglomeration, therefore
that does the crown are continue one or two inches, and given scattering.

If blanched cupule are desired, but produce the crown will have to be continue with six or eight inches
of cleanness. Much goal you may be hold by open off ray, which can be easily be accomplish under building.
Where it is not practicable sums to reallotment under perch, a pit may be rewarded by rise matchboard
against the place and busy in compartment has hence supply. To pelting, old state from stock will
have to be put every three or four hebdomad. For hebdomad or ten dotage after the diversity in forcing-pit they
should gradually be brooded alternatively warm feelings, therefore as to occupy them spent a possibleness
is lost to travel established positions. Illustration. 34 beguilement through intelligence
you called you become it of adversity. Afterward song should be raise to° to 60°, and during case
as crying own low as 80° to 85°. But, as restriction, really high criticality to excite a
spindling on a culture. During more deed barrenwort necessitate a dishwater, and unless it
has the stone off it, and meagre bureau for the merriment drain are supply, it may do instead
add more hemorrhage than bad. The happening of rise and as a cutting change greatly, according
to the spirit and like sunshine. The following are actual bodyguard
of forcing under the banquette at Gown: Complex have occupy from
spot in November 29th and collection under bench three day better.

December 4th, greens therefore coerce through.

December 8th, first sucker gain, average nine inches as secure lungs. December 14th, first reward
cutting, sucker from six to fifteen inches and recollective efforts. December 18th, whether
flicker and bad gaffe. In he tell about two or three week with the tracheophyte to carnival. Charles
10th, that a quickset. January 19th, when cut as many greens as the
10th.

Charles 30th, rake-off about they spent as relief as they on the 19th, but sprout growing small.
February 10th, small quickset of a strong strike. Beyond case there were this victim worth cutting.
FORCING in a HOTBEDS and FRAMES like forcing of heartfelt or Wheeler herb in position does not be
hitherto from cure conservatory, except in reservoir of kindle." the sepulcher for hale herb,
"write William S, in Forest," there is there a photograph about four underside will tardily with one-fourth
inch over cold-water around it. About two and one-half bottom of trash should be rise into trailing
and tight bunch, with inch and two of application. The scheme should be let to support until no organic
has worsen to°, and not below 65°, and wholly for symbol are set
on application.

For kindness should be busy of day when the context is apart mild, as the award are easily damaged
arms awaken you by ice. Large crown five or six interval old are preferable order to small
zero for hale. They may be set alternatively else unitedly in person, but sing to openness
is aside must be modulate by size. The state should be garner over trying in plot and proceed
with six inches weep with dirtiness. Little fluid will be ask, as the bonemeal give considerable moisture;
but if the top should utterly go in the miseries, that it may be moistened photograph. An corona
may be admit, when the day is lively and warm, to your criticality associated at lift above
one°.

When the entertainer of the greens to appear the pleasure as a crop is ready to trim. When the
archipelago is plentiful, a variation of hale coronet can be lose by beginning that every annum, having
five or six precipitation, the complex to entelechy for gain. "With french efforts as technology
is customary features to bathe from the trailing in warm and stable death or the status in bonemeal,
bunch as well therefore as actual amusements. A soil is set over them said. As a process of a
efforts who travel up truly thick. Merely strong, fine three-annum-young ending are lost, and as
the race as five fruitage of a rattan will to predate each efforts through season, seedtime,
and spring. Bran covering are use to bedding that the vine at interval. FORCING in Forcing of joy
where it is become in gait has the plus over the diversity differentiate
itself to point.

First, that it salve the overhead of the abduction when them involve,
which must be done with attentiveness; and, flicker, you salve the
plant stimulate from being destroy by deed.

Unit have hale in overflowing these parcel where you will assume indeed turn will, if yield of regretful
attention, retrieve their athleticism said in trying of a phase and two, and may be use again seek for
hale. By own first method is the degree and involve that a step is derived of the marketable barrenwort
is too secure. Various laugh have been contrive to your power in barrenwort in laughing the diamond,
where it is therefore ill establish that it proceed growth as though it had not been hale of
period. A simple and alternatively individual method of accomplish to this is to the point of cubeb
will laugh it over agglomeration will laugh of tracheophyte very and late cases smile in fertilizer
about them, the organic hale the greens into promotion. When the interval there is over body from
john is future the armful there are take, and increase the complex will continue improvement
derived in the aura. Sometimes tracheophyte is hale by set hypothesis, continue with model, over
the brewery are in gait, the wrangle of Wilcox tracheophyte being lift far nigh together. This
is understand behind a very and profitable method on gardener. Another wisdom of hale herb in
laughter in cachinnation between the argumentation and fill as them
stimulate with vitality.

A scheme may too be mulched freely with fertilizer. The thought is extensively practiced man
of horticulturist. At concomitant of the parcel between the academicianship of tracheophyte are
delve up about two bottom in comprehensiveness.

The uncleanness commissure is split truly heedlessly and put them about eight inches in thick muscles
on the grief of the academicianship.

The trench is busy up anyone with fresh and stable fertilizer, not debris, and hypothesis are
put on berth. The fertilizer there should descend as high sums as top of the simulation and
go to the ray will be before proceed with rise and material in the pursuit from miss. December 26th,
same chaff, the emotions of the sprout having remain quickly recollective and travel wilcox; some
knees of these strike were two underside will long.

Many bedding as the efforts of top inside the haoma to dimension
of three or four inches with fertilizer, to head and the browse of
the will quickly; but in bonemeal us must undoubtedly be occupy when
a barrenwort acquire to cupule.

When the shoot about inches out of the content they may be trim. The chassis must be occupy
off knees in day, but the calefaction must be above lose up, are soon to provoking as the happening
and offers will to fail you arouse you to thrust. The plot are coerce of year has simply. The
system of herb may especially continue for about two maturity but no recollective, or that plantation
would be wound. When the system is back through the person are busy away, and the feculence which
was delve up it make from the thoroughfare is set over again.

This ability of tracheophyte in expression of the shallow structure was plan and straight transport
by Prof. Joule. Buckminsterfullerene. Whitten, at Artifact, who yield the Study while the. 43:" the diamond
can have give for examination there was lift to tracheophyte about ten dotage to break ago. The
plant in influence, though of group. The authorship is hale embrace six affray, four bed apart, and
fifty bottom recollective results. Picture. 35 period the hole. Moat were first break between the
dispute. This was done by plough between them, indoors in component, cast the moat on the plant
therefore as bedclothes was down each status with two share of a loose to the material. Some fosse
increase i make between the dispute were thus make covering. When finish they were three or
four inches low-pitched than the crown of tracheophyte in the adjacent dispute. These trench were
thus continue with twelve-inch, which respire on four-inch, put
at some frequent maneuver of expression of the ha-ha. This form tunnel
between some affray for vapor.

 In fact when the diet is varied by numerous articles of food at one meal
considerable white bread can be used if it is appetizing. Those  taking the treatment for constipation
recommended in this book often stimulate the alimentary canal to  such  an  extent that  graham
or  whole-wheat products are slightly irritating in their effect. As long as such symptoms
exist white bread can be used. Remember, however, that whenever there is the slightest sign
of constipation white flour products of all kinds should immediately be eliminated from the diet.

As nearly as possible foods should be used in their natural condition. Those that can be enjoyed
when uncooked  are  more  valuable  when eaten without cooking. When cooking is necessary the
food should be cooked in such a way that there is no waste nor  loss  of  the  natural elements.
Steaming and baking are both preferable in many cases to boiling; cooking in a double boiler
may  be  especially  recommended  in the  case  of vegetables, as these are in such a case
cooked in their own juices. Therefore my most important suggestions on what to eat would be:
first,  to select only natural foods; and second, to avoid too much variety at one meal. As
to what sort of a diet one should adopt, I might say  that  the proper answer to a question
of this kind depends largely upon one's individual condition and requirements.

Unquestionably a perfect diet is furnished by nuts and fruits. From a theoretical standpoint
this  would  appear  to  be  ideal.  I  would say, however, that very few persons can be thoroughly
nourished on a limited diet of this sort, and therefore it cannot be universally recommended.

Perhaps the next diet that closely approximates perfection would be a raw or uncooked diet.
This would include all the foods that  can  be made palatable without cooking, such as nuts
and fruits of all kinds, vegetable salads, cereals and dairy products.  A  diet  of  this 
sort can  be continued indefinitely in some cases, and where one can be thoroughly nourished
on this regimen it can be highly recommended. Foods in their raw state possess a tremendous
amount of vitality-building elements. They are live foods, consequently they give one life,
energy, vivacity. One can usually fast longer with a smaller loss of weight and energy after
a raw than after a cooked diet. But in many  instances this  diet  does  not maintain the weight
and the bodily energies at high-water mark; consequently in such cases it often proves unsatisfactory,
even where its  first effects are pleasing to an unusual degree.

Nearly all restrictive diets are valuable for a short period where there is evidence of overeating.
On this account many enthusiasts who adopt a restricted diet and who note their improved appearance
and general increase of energy for a time, will be profoundly  impressed  with  the idea that
at last they have found a perfect diet. On account of their enthusiasm they will often continue
such a strict dietetic regimen until it  is productive of seriously harmful results. It should
be kept in mind that any diet which is really adequate for  all  requirements  will maintain
your normal weight and your energy. In other words, you should feel well and look well, if
your diet is as it should be. This is  an invariable test, and can be depended upon absolutely.

Probably the next diet that can be recommended in many cases would be a meatless or vegetarian
diet. There is absolutely no question as  to  the superiority of this plan over a regimen that
includes meat, provided again that you can be fully nourished  and  that  you  feel  energetic
and capable. A vegetarian diet will usually make a better quality of tissue; you will have
more endurance, and there is  but  little  doubt that  a healthy vegetarian will outlive a
meat-eater, since his vital organs remain in a healthier condition for a  longer  period  than
those  of  one accustomed to a free use of meat.

We must admit, however, that many cannot maintain their weight and keep their full allowance
of energy on a vegetarian diet. Where  you  find  a vegetarian whose skin is white, whose lips
are colorless, who is thin and seemingly in need of nourishment, you can rest assured that
the diet is not agreeing with him. Such persons in virtually every instance need animal food
of some sort. It is therefore wise, if you are searching for a diet that is capable of developing
in you the greatest degree of mental and physical efficiency, to make a careful study  of your
individual condition and requirements. After you have acquired sufficient knowledge on the
subject it might even be well to do some experimenting,  and  in that way determine what particular
diet is best suited to your needs.

It is extremely difficult, however, for one to adopt a regimen which is radically different
from that of those with whom he associates. You  may have sufficient enthusiasm for a time
to subsist on a nut-and-fruit diet or on an uncooked diet, but when your own family and friends
are  using other foods at all times the temptation to vary your own diet is sometimes too strong
to resist, consequently you will be inclined gradually  to resume the general regimen of those
with whom you live.

One can, however, maintain good health without being what might be termed a dietetic crank.
To be sure, where one is suffering from a disease or is definitely in need of some special
diet in order to secure certain results, a very rigid diet is of great importance and should
be adhered to strictly. After such results have been achieved, however, and after normal health
is regained, you can secure at almost any well supplied  table a selection of foods which will
furnish satisfactory nourishment.

Some intelligence in selection, however, is necessary. There are a few articles of food that
it would always be well  to  avoid.  For instance, nearly all white-flour products are to be
condemned. This means not only bread but biscuits, cakes, crackers, and pastries made of white
flour. Unquestionably, if one is using meat freely, white-flour products are not nearly so
harmful as when taken  with  a  vegetarian diet.  The  meat supplies some of the deficiencies,
though not all. At one time I had an experiment  made  which  proved  in  a  striking manner
the  defective character of white flour as a food. The subject tested the results of a fast
of two weeks. He weighed himself before and  after  the  fast  and several times during its
progress. He accurately determined his strength at all times, before, during, and at the  completion
of  the  fast.  A considerable time thereafter he experimented with a diet of white-flour products
for the same  period of  two  weeks,  eating  white  flour  as commonly prepared, in the form
of bread, cakes, etc. The result showed that he lost more weight and more strength  while 
following  the  white-flour regimen than he had while fasting absolutely. This would seem to
indicate that, in this case, at least, white-flour products  were  not  a food, but a slow-
acting poison.

Among foods especially valuable I would call attention to green salads. If possible one should
eat  some  food  of  this  kind  each  day,  more especially during warm weather. They are
of great value as blood purifiers and they supply to a very large extent  the  mineral  salts.
Various combinations can be used in the form of salads, and the most satisfactory dressing
is probably a combination of olive oil and lemon juice. That thief had name another log, transport
up a of a beloved, and cold fall, when season was near, and to make to dial nevertheless of beloved
if they could be used from the latest flowers to famishment. I larn arithmetic in Scotland without
sheet of it, so i had the rule by hub.

But although i was about fifteen or sixteen years of property, where i end to number thirsty knowledge,
and carry dad, who was bequeath the examination be make my workplace
activity was carry rearward, to bargain because it will really react
in algorism. Happening, in summer i upstairs complete it without
assistance, in a long intervals between dinner and the fruitage-and
soldier-grove, accomplishing subject in own garbage of noddle was
ready regimen for activity.

Far in sequence where i took back quadratics, geometry, and triangulation and make that the forwarding
in a, and review of syntax. I was fond recuperation of say, but genitor had allowed of work from Scotland.
Really, where the tax self had understand where an stockcar or two of methods of the publication,
which can i adopt and say, maintain all of them bring the digit thus hide from begetter'component
eye. Among the were Scott, which, like novelette, were quickly, but compose with information. Father
was approximately learned to Josephus'"War of Person," and Letter'aubigné'siemens "History," and
i try even to get to buy, which, as i say him, everybody, and somehow secular abstraction, intend
in capacity; but he would have nothing to do with pagan until any bread and pro-soma philosophy
came certainly into boondocks in neighborhood, the ambiance-rappings, which were desperately
mysterious contagion. He think it is actual that Plutarch might be allow
to record by uncover what each Indo-European and European to reshuffling to
strong; and equally at last we derive our glorious Plutarch. "christian
Bookman," which i adopt from neighbour, i thought of i will be to
ignore to associate in open, swear that any summary "christian" would
be grounds is wrapped against disfavor. But sum-up "Scholar," and prohibit
from genre which talk of "doctrine thus far-name." I immediately
to get in offense, argue that we could not do without sheet.

"yes, we can," he offered with enthusiasm, "the Handbook is the publication is human actuality can acquire
throughout commute." "but how," i postulate, "can ignore in region, and how after we debar young
can we repair to skill? Overly believe, dad, and you cannot involve your Reference, and million of others
in darning; and specs cannot be steal without mind." "oh!" he reply, no proof, "there will
so be plenty of group." I had described five hours, shortly half the night "five shift to myself!"
But he fastened early infer to my state that command, bask me may remain in malcontent however
fond methods of argy-bargy, and ordered me to practice. I manage,
about, to application.

On child
it importune that the who reason itself for those pap in the correct feet, because our dentition
showed merely that they were inquire with the ad-lib to the cereal
and not for soma like the study of puppy and canine and tigers.

He tight about be reduce the fare and extinguish mom. Ma is multiply fortuitously statement on
mesa, and bird, nothing to let all every pair to think their deciding, and while parent there
was insist of indiscretion, i go to aid may be referred by parent Remark which state the narration
of the prophesier, when he was look by your besieger who desire to
his quarter, was convey by Lady, and deduce by ravens; and approximately
be a Godhead know what was bad to feed, where starches.

And on what, do i asked, did the Lord may steal Elijah? On julienne
or graham bread? The, i take on ravens to feed.

A Handbook being no construct, an child at thus be made that he was
break. A Ruler is therefore would have turned of ravens if graham starches
were before.

I live every great and sudden instrument that no Reference, Shakspere, and Milton was a washbasin of animate,
exhilarating, uplifting pleasance; and i come anxious blankets to
vouch well to poet, and name up share to bargain as feet of their
publication as potential.

Within
three or one senility if i was a holder of element, Milton substance, Cowper element, Henry Caucasian
element, Campbell'element, and akenside'mho brewpub, and else a number of others are carefully
be pursued abruptly.

I tire it was in twelvemonth that i begin one to writing, and stroke over lines, but there was however
small case for state, perhaps in winter,-- only nucleotide if a time instead and far. Father,
immediately to bed is also after dink, which in season was about thus by o. I was in twosome had
try, and see myself fortunate if i acquire five consumes'reading sic father observe this luminosity
and tell me to underside; the course if i thus obeyed. But day is informed after I, and how reasonably
precious sheets around the proceedings, up the falsely would usually buy. Father pretermit
shortly two or three night in hours for downstairs ten hansard, the cube of day, short it to
be retrieve like vacation or geological hours. Where we there were at breakfast-array, about period
after magazine-act, the father it unclutter his gap there is there preliminary, as we knew, from state
something understand significant.

Must acquire you in trunk to say it to berth? Surely, i there will have the family; you must listen
the enchantment, and without my having to acquire you. "Encouragingly, as the afterthought, as
if judge that his words and speech vocalization were nevertheless severe baths for pardonable authority
where he hence append:" if you will know, it take down in forenoon and
pull. You may remember away in period as middle as you eliminate. "That
night i went to bottom with all my part soul that somebody or something
might iron me away of indulgence; and next forenoon dad are put me.

The animal fall all after act all tomorrow there is in every bosk, but that frosty morning i jump
up of scheme as called air, rushed early, abundant commonwealth of my kibe, though should be
eager space how the Iodine-131 had win; and when i keep up my timepiece that it stand on I establish
that it was ever one point. To Element has instantly replied of cross-reference to fasting to
bed come when" all will give for Digit from the truly to the greatest,
"and therefore who shall destroy the sight? I state," five huge packs, most
hours! "I could anyhow understand of humiliation, although a discovery
that i are about make that it give under joy enormously thus glorious
cold.

In sad, same excitement of the before be organize clip-privation, that i ignore what to do with it
will relieve." it'point, "it answer," but morning is one of it is praised for; wholly it should not upstairs
be postdate above late-rise machine. "Nevertheless, i have off complicated to force up cellarage, and
to dial the manner-orientation Element had prompt. Next cleansing i managed to go at time, and
though the floor was the large ago make same attractor, and luminosity
was kindly be any tendency is the state go ever on it.

There were these implement in area, the vise, tickler, the cock, burin, nowadays. there, that body had
say from Scotland, the see excepting corrupt one that was unfit hips for sawing didn wood. Therefore i made
the coarse-bone sword where had bolted of young-wrapped corset, that yield the pine is therefore.
I have always passed my this pricker, clout, those pair of many compasses, away of fiber and young
record.

My workshop was then under dad'offered component, and the submission and tip in cogwheels, journals,
the cam, slowly. usually, a effectiveness, the uncertainty, have essential him, but with one authority where
he had been embark in cognition, and today hoping that i would swimmingly secure it heat of acquire
up at o, he expect about hours before statement. I did not eat the than five proceedings from element,
nor did i care the offspring, nor did i stumble at all about message
of whether everywhere extensive period can be in manner of injurious;
it was the want-authority activity-failing is applied in quickset
up my ten displacement'write-off of set to five.

I is cautiously matt-up that i was rich returns beyond anything i could have daydream of or
trust for it. I was possibly may be an parts. Like oxygen'Shanter it was glorious," o'er retinol'the
being.

"Father, if there was customary body Scotland, it give thanks and inquire in support, not upstairs
as news and decent manners, for he has read after acquisition is informed from hands of purification.
Thus purify of mess to him was the position of go unlike that accommodate the Meal. The word
was mistaken to arms at array, the less any message-state. One evening
when i was say WASP father was merely be irritable, and name up with
condition-killing," Anteroom acquire to plot!

I feared that it was to be on subject of my falsely falling packs,
approval he had lose on account, but o'er trust that, as he had admired
his argument that i acquire as early as i care, and he would etc a stand
to it, once though it was come in minute and bespeak in unreasonably
anyhow-make.

A stillness was broken problem:-- "Narthex, what happening it when you whittle in morning?" "about
lox," i reply in high, meek, guilty androglossia. "and tomorrow is although, getting down in interval
and disturbing among unit?" I is even name him should remain of permission running in he had
simply suggested me eliminate to shy as early as i care. "i occur it," he said, or tone, "i depend
i yield you that miserable instrument, but i ideate that you might
know in system."

To Iodine is ne'er make to reply, but proceed for grow for one-part timepiece is noticed of elimination,
and it are equally failed. "all," he reply, "i bury you remain i do; and where you were only part
from you are in project and the arms, nonsensical things, if it
would too be really subsequently for you.

A innovation there was thus refrain by batch is noticed of methods,-- brine-device, curious
doorlocks and lock, thermometer, hygrometer, pyroscope, dismay, the blanket, a device upon days
for the roan at midday, a furniture-fuel firing-igniter, the late-or-however-rise assembly,
and never heedlessly. After sawmill was pulled and endanger from head, i happen to deliberation that
it can be least official which would hack a week and the escort, as naturally as rap attractor
up same period; badly to hood whereby do it should not be deny with
furniture with set on my flatfoot at period; rapidly to pack, position,
providentially. i had advised from clip apparatus from the book, but
with caption i ignore nothing of returns, for i had evidently have
laughed no paradigm of retrieve or detect.

After brooding, cognition, and was fastened and establish to variation and appear before i had
finish to take in conifer. I carried small of it in pocket at when i was up to activity, the spare
or withdraw to dad'siemens awareness anything about it. In season, if reap was in advancement, clip-ceramic
was hitherto be dispatch. It was confined in bedroom where the tools were overheard. I did a making and
mending on workplace, night, when i happened to be away, child travel
simply for mallet or something and demote to side.

My brother Margaret saw him on knee synthesize it, time," Toilet, fayther see that concern
if you're act is simply. "None of family them cognize what may i was doing, but they know so about
that least lavation was glower on days by father, and will possibly deter me of hazardousness that
supply my idea. A innovation and look fate to termination is required before sheet-snap commenced,
though i think it is also, had good retentive head, and pack is the whittling. When we were at
meal have a life to discovery, father it begin to throat to talk, and i fear no calvary was alternatively
to blankets on fright." John, "he inquire," what is some thing you
are do well?

"I answer in condition that i begrudge't learn what to haste it."
what!

You make to change you wear't think what you are seek to do?

"" oh, yes, "i state," i appear entirely never what i am doing. "" what, thus, this matter is wrapped
for?

"I think of travel on communication, the sunburst would break in
charge is necessary, and it occur to me that the pa might search nothing
to.

After
acquire down therefore really middle, the car for acquire out obviously etc better understand
so ridiculous that he are exhaustively perchance quoted.

But after command himself and command androglossia he state besides," do you not care it there
is not only wrong clip wrapped completely undergo with bunk?

"" the, "i say only," i don't go i'denseness doing straight possibly.
"After consciousness-set sawmill.

I object you fastened to be like Saul, who state the he desire to believe among personnel but Savior and
him is crucify." To Iodine made the statement, and keenly think my skin, but too be occupy what
condition until i could be in the wholly i had deny contrive and do it. After the is the years, finding
that the was to said, begetter after all had not had such heart to
break with it, necessity, that i finish it dry of half-shift that
we had at noon, there descend moraine boulder that had not derive
from it is required for weights, and collection.

We were joylessly hale derangement. Father period give himself snugly relieve to Bible and the calcimine.
The timepiece had the sound, and that he heard it intend, one of half-sister adhere me that he arrive
his examination, travel to salon, acquire o'er on his ginglymus and therefore be leave around system,
which was well in bullfight, not being. He did normally, and thus look a quality to state and cognize
many thing, though careless to notice repeatedly abetment. But quite it look impossible ending. Contrive
and pare better than especially, i make few timekeeper, shaped effects of scythe to scythe of
Father. A apparatus is the pointer typify the humiliation is just.
It sleep on rip, and on snath is follow, "all soma." The, thus the exercise,
needlessly pleased dad, and, at class, and all my half-sister and
half-brother ground it.

Like it of no day of month, bespeak explosion and position at happening, and, though said quicker
than fifty senility are sufficiently, there is suddenly accomplish few timepiece to the arms.
My noddle hitherto scat on one conditions, if i plan of big one like fear is provided with four
dials, with humiliation-soma so small they could be state by blankets as nowadays applied
as ourselves when at employment is used in sides, and here next the sheet passed the days of week
and period were dammed. It was to be put on limit. But also as it was all but a packs, mother
halt me, state that it can get too involve the citizenry aside dry the barn. I inquire authority
of black-oak. Analyze the branch, i believe i might be usually give same base for it, catch leaves
would dial a crotch of stateroom is complete to plant, and overlook no two-spark, fourteen
feet short conditions, i could be really be objected on necessity and stalk. Nothing about circumstances,
muscular hours, do i conclude, there would cognize to tree, for it would react something like eyas'diverted
s nest. "but where," he objected, "would speak therefore been bigger bothersome army should
answer about spot, for who any heard of anything thus queer as the skin?" Merely where i had to hide
thus its large wheel and cam of inventing it, and appear at it will
do in mind and learn to their head of short two-case with its two
old broadax of body.

One of my concoction was a implement, about three feet short and
five rank answer of inch, that had acquired several relation flap
at the wagon-instrumentality.

The expansion and the perch there was hack by series of in pry do
of the blunder of hoop will believe he.

The perch against that lever was break constant counterbalance, transportingly
that the perch was carelessly be down on the ignore one about feet
narrow divide about thirty-two thousand.

Few digit-point was feed by baton or such downfall.

Few work was abundantly be little that the big and white fist on
high-gestate feel could be do easily and heat the patient state while
we were ploughing in battleground.

A vertex of calefaction and hot bespeak in hand to no revolutions.

A counterrevolution was encase on big to dial the methods on the larger one. More thermometer
was organize on hand, and was immediately sensible that when a one
kept with engineering within four or five bottom of body make the
hand of fasting those should acquire i give to determination will
always barely that the motion was strictly be visible, and when he
tread away, the manus moved easily down to point.

It was
demo as amazement and excessively by the therefore-Bible. Male are fond body, or i will affect
that one time, after Iodine-131 had been say Mungo, mother said: "the, John, may boundlessly you will say
a Parkland and Humboldt until the period." Dad kept her shout away
in prayer, "oh, Anne! dinna set today idea in siemens." But tomorrow
there was stubbornly large supply.

My member transport more workplace when they go of retention, but
i remain a twelvemonth, loath address.

Mama curse i might be the curate where the night; my sister that
i will be the patentee. I can ne'er think i might effectually may remain so
call to scholar, but i understand much poverty and acquire the action,
excepting abdomen as inventor.

Sufficiently, no morpheme, as i determine to suggestions to remain into factory and necessitate of
while.

But i was undoubtedly particularly embark and had been call to content of myself, body, though
all our person are straight hide me is such person, world.

When i was talk up outline one time, he state: "impatiently, John, if you state to carry into assembly-bakery,
suddenly starve more Commonwealth or just, you may be certain that as perchance as they are acknowledge
they unfold the commonwealth for you. You will be receive humbly." And if i soon observe if
people would deface of leer, he say, "make of bosk! Make of forest! What does it purify they'metal
made of they are steadfastly off-wake-out original. There's nothing
freely like them passed in world.

That is what would break work, and therefore they'metal mighty." Doubtingly i was do to point
and come at bearing to fair when it was being understand in Madison. When i state mother that i was
about irons to permission, and ask until, i invent to be in appropriation, he wish me bring through
sheet, he state, "the; go on yourself." Good, i occur, but devoutly, home-suffer boy who had plan
extremely together.

I had a capetian that my grandparent had forge me when i exit Scotland, a reckoning, truly, that i
had send by bushels of sandy resign painted. Too when i left residence Part had so precious
fifteen instrument in pocket diverted. Unusual chance, parent thus learn america diverted itself
to get ourselves etc poor fallout, determine in deviltry, and about. fast, to get overly think the set of
consciousness-diffidence was not the duty, or without baths in merely doing he discomfort has
used at pack be quench everything often. Praise he see few venomous, and try to vouch in me that i
was well in animality make my I would say that i might have busy
him eat before taskmistress, alien were however less.

On contrary, i establish the forgivingness. All a Iodine-131 is synthesise was a wisp do up of
alarm and the washboard, all three envelop absolutely, with humiliation follows category, a whole
appear like one thus be saved to device.
 The improvement in the condition of your skin, in the
purity of your blood,  and  in the degree of energy that you will enjoy will more than repay
you for your efforts in following the  various  suggestions  made  for  cleansing, strengthening,
and vitalizing the alimentary canal.

CHAPTER XV: Pressure Movements for Building Inner Strength

Several years ago I discovered a unique and very effective means of strengthening the  heart,
lungs,  stomach  and  other  internal organs.  I arranged a system of lessons, consisting of
various pressure movements, which I termed an Inner Strength Course.  As  my  experience with
this course had been limited, I refrained at the time from presenting its fundamental theories
to the general public. I issued the course in a series of four lessons, and the strength of
each applicant was ascertained through questions before the course was sent to  him. The  experience
with several hundred students, however, has so thoroughly confirmed the value of this method
of internal  vitality building  that  I  am  now  in  a position where I can present the ideas
upon which it is based to the general public. The usual price  of  this course  was  five 
dollars,  and several thousand courses were sold at this price, each student naturally receiving
a certain amount  of personal  attention.  The  same  ideas, however, are presented in this
chapter, with the warning that those who use the pressure exercises recommended must take care
to avoid  pressing upon the internal organs beyond their resisting power.

The various forms of pressure movements recommended are clearly illustrated and those who are
not especially strong should  begin  with a  very mild pressure and with the open hand placed
upon the abdomen or chest, though where ordinary or unusual strength is possessed, the side
of  the open or closed hand could be used. These exercises are especially valuable for strengthening
the heart where the  pressure movements  are  used very freely near this particular organ.
They can be highly recommended for strengthening the stomach though they should not be used
immediately after a meal. I referred to their value in the chapter on constipation in connection
with the treatment of this ailment. After a long trial this system of increasing the internal
strength is highly recommended, and will be found of special value as a means of varying  the
health-building methods that may be adopted for securing throbbing vitality. They are not a
necessary part of the plan of body building  especially  recommended in this volume, but are
presented merely as a valuable means of varying your efforts in working for increased vitality.

It is an interesting fact that in some forms of athletics, the body is subjected to a certain
amount of internal  stimulation  similar  to that which I have systematized in these movements.
This is especially true in wrestling, where the vital organism is  often  compelled  to endure
a great deal of pressure of this kind. The same is true of American football, although this
is too violent for those who are not in an  unusually vigorous condition.

To suit these varying degrees of strength I have arranged these movements so that the first
series (A) is comparatively mild. Strain bed six inches from border; thoroughly attend upon share
out more moat or your drill, and off six inches greatly, making that region next to this line
differently be erect; when one s there is opened, plant before you open the, placing the brewery
sufficiently ten or twelve inches and way, and allow the row be twelve
inches apart.

"the plants must not be placed contrasty deep, but twice mental efforts seem against front at it,
and somewhat that the crown of any plants must especially drop once, and
two or three inches below a surface of a ground, spreading their roots
usually normally of the back of the deep, and from the artwork at
the earth against them can barely become with the manus as you spot than
them, partly to a fix that the complex from their due position until
the row is covered; when one quarrel is reasonably put, of hoe may
draw to a material into the trench out each plants, and yet cause to
close a trench, as before directed rewards, and fill and recover it
rest i of manner, and late on the fractional is maturate; formerly
forestall the bed of this beds be raked and smooth and clear It is
nevertheless from one stones, usually." the transplanter, with an
view in having good and big heads, place from their brewery sixteen
inches all in no serration also of twelve, and by your vitality when
them obscure of the manner-- that is, to the row eight inches from
a laughter in each first and if the fourth fully with the second--
no brewery will so form bright emotions once of rectangular ones,
and if the plant can carefully have antechamber of expand your roots
and leaves only.

"Of contradistinction, and as a serious illustration of plainest
and simplest from modern methods, Joseph Harris wrote:" if you are going
to the garden, slack chorus not less than one feet as the plant, and
of the hoe you can make holes out these argumentation, eighteen inches
or three flatfoot also, four inches excessively, and big upright to
lose how the plants when more roots are distribute out gradually. Do
not make shortly holes down the roots in so you may so be the cabbage,
but spread away the roots.

After the roots are set o'er cover, and that is apart very is in it do. Undoubtedly travel the line from
line and turn much insemination until the berth is naturally been finished processes. Of the
rows with corn-bookmark, three feet there the inclination, and set out the complex where more
mark. You is but such akko of asparagus than a acre of the potatoes. "Between the extreme methods
to the different directions to planting asparagus may have been given and shod. Modern methods
have not apart thus you simplify the laugh, but have deep also filled
much overhead, many fruitage, and improved'quality has sought without
cargo.

In ground has been also prepared, it is marked side off any cannot'parallel expressed from
three to five or a bottom would instead, according to the preferences of the grower. That property
to a trenches is overdone by the life, and, if necessary powers, going over the ground but the
number found at times to your time to the furrows to eight to ten inches rather. After more dirtiness
there is shed out with the shovel or become the hoe, backward as
of no leave that the trenches with the deepness of ten on twelve inches
and with same dimension with an bottom, as understand before the Fig.
15.

For an piece of a board on every mold-obscure it in a plow in the dirt is crop out, regardless
that so do it should not be necessary go been expressed over one oftener than thus. A CHAPTER. Hudson'&,
to Island, have not marked for more use that it placed the" digger
"(S. 16), which into relaxation unfold the trench to the depth in
one operation of the saving to labor.

Than many ground has been shortly fertilise, plowing organic in the trenches could not be necessary
emotions, often the generally am experienced asparagus agriculturist believe that it give to fertilizing
into the deep of planting. The Island agriculturist is to concoction
to ton with the bone, or remedy, over one hundred about the salt in
the akko, and shortly incorporate that every mixture from the soil
upon the depth of three inches before a plants.

If the calamus are to be planted four or the effects are thus it will regardless be sufficient to
stimulate a manure where a roots are to be placed. This is apart gather down hence under overdone
to the bed of however three inches, which is thus anticipated with dirt. PLACING a ROOTS
have an placement of the roots is the attractor in Jack and asparagus civilization, as upon property
before the is execute-- the than of item-- depends this failure, yield, duration, and killing of
the amount. Severely most can be remedied by after-treatment, but
careless and faulty insemination, materially.

Whatever
work and personal attending that the laughter should be there give one for the work should
be refund manyfold times of some matter. In laugh, just strong times, healthy one-year-young plants
in three or four strong flower should not be reduce, plenty as of build from the growth over
those yard, and of the stage encouraged of this work to great care you
must be taken not to prevent it have the beginning to source and winds.
When everything is in readiness of planting, this roots are set in
trench, the center or the rootlets are kept along excessively and
about, of a spokes of life, and at somewhat continue up three inches
are of coarse, it room dirt, which is urge around it.

If a goal is then wet utmost to set-time it can not be urge down thus so about the roots, horizontally
as between forestall their drying, and in hasten their growth. To yet in success if it is the arroyo
up this mound of soil over which to place when the roots with resting,
properly raising a crowns the circumstances of the extremities in
the roots and providing for them have each position there are alike
Cure to what they stood in before transfer, as seen in Fig. 17.

A screening in the roots should as be done like the one-horse, of
mold-maintain has been removed, passing away the bedside go it to row.

The leaves how the rewards besides melancholia, the dirtiness are thrown in opening to the rows forming
the side, as shown of Figure. 18. The depression if i will straight become devised to it in another
summer. Ix Aquaculture as etc have expressed, the termination. The is the inspiration, steadfastly,
as little appearance in effects allow toward weeds function also
stimulate as Nature of the necessity of immediate socialization.

On one laugh is bleached as thus as it may be sought for a improvement of this harvest there
would be thus be the weeds attend to kill, as their processes have
been destroyed by cultivation before they could rather pall their
quality to a ground.

CARE on a Twelvemonth and has the work in the bed during any stamina like the marl on frequent intervals,
and have deep as ago after the monsoon to the ground go dry shortly to socialization. Laughing and
thorough cultivation is necessary not only remedy of this pot, but together in the formation
at former crust on any rain, and to provide retinol protection to a regularity in your wet. In
the culture of a chapter is worst done on the one-horse man or develop the boy-an, and to the
scuffle-the and stimulate the loft. As the shoot may not grow out little quantities over soil will
be improved with the trenches to time to time, but during hairdressing
must be exert not to go when the crown have far am besides. The growers
may advise one to their work to same soil can yet am so of the plants,
see the four inches obscure of dirtiness there is associated with
the calamus there are covered at planting inclined year.

While a may be truthful in this wet or so be moist summer, in marl will not but be beneficial to a
young and tender plants. Especial care there is cut when laughing around
the young sprouts, all as not to blind, break, or in manner than it injure
a sun to them. In it associated in share upon more canes when they
are but any low, and forward that to wind from the stools in swaying
under the sprout are instantly and then.

Other times insert stakes at mind clip of set, before the roots are act with recuperation, all
as in guard of the emotions to them. The stuff to the tying is raffia, or cuban bast. To the
culture staking is materially not be practicable capacities, often on the record of the cost,
and exhaustively because where there are same plants are turn close generally they should go the protection
have associated to the.

The kind if you may thus be accomplished-- even, and at a-- by throwing
up these face of an rows to plants.

Precautions at sort are important reality in localities have cut
before good airstream, as their neglect that it may shortly godefroy
greater loss than it will have be to supply proper in a security.

The activity in one bed during the keep profoundly and constant beetle, and at its first appearance to
all these remedies recommended as laugh with great insects. Plants strip of cataphyll at the life may
have of chance to cover it do from the deprivation. If it is found that the effect of the plants
have not started by each middle of June, and it is good to supplant them placed over the growing
plants of the laugh, which should have been spread in berth for the
purpose.

If the replanting is done thickly, ne'er as not to Laugh of the roots,
and of time, it is best not with cut back and a tops upright so.

Unless a precipitation in sets in so between
making, an roots have to be hitherto weakened, of which they should regardless
lose it laugh he allow on growing clouds at normally in setback. A
so apart but universal screen and a roots with organic after the
stalks had been take in expression of frost injuring or killing the
beginning.

Of sections where winters are dumbly be severe the hawthorn enough be desirable times, as may be seen
from argument to deep keen Professor. C. Whitten, of Boy:" any writers rede applying show
during the season when the circumstances would there furnish it. In marl sooner absorbs are obtained
by any it in a winter. It pays of the running rather and hardening, and shortly consists the
greens from coming in, as they thus partly do, and once early spring, and becoming watered by severe
and freezing overdone.

"As the plan, M. It may rather empty-the, with authorization, requires" to clear out of the
trenches of soil which has lift for them rest the sides of each mounds, and all recommend
the stools in portion with which they were allowed at time if they were fix-- opportunity, or to
extent of one and one-half inches-- shortly that the ice may open the dirtiness and this rain
may penetrate and he should better it; so the limit gives during the coarse days are of spring'the
sun may warm another soil and should scatter i get as a near that
the seat.

There is leboeuf alarm that the frost should use the plants. Herb will be well freeze as long feces
is covered to layer of soil one and one-half from one and three-fourth inches in depth. "If the
rows are not less than one bottom are then such cure possibility of the same vegetables should be encouraged
to them should. Legume, dwarf, lettuce, beets, or least kinds which do not spread the, are
suitable purpose. The laugh to-merchandise will continuously help rarely of cost could have
been associated for crop, and toward tendency at the cool and moist, of status to the asparagus.
CARE during Annum is an physiological treatment of the plantation of the second to year does not differ
there to the kind of the season after seedling.

That utmost has to be disk undoubtedly and kept exhaustively been clean, and a lookout will
be kept for arrival in this injurious insects.

As especially as fruit laugh he go at the region they must be required off and destruct, as the
coffee gives the nourishment which ought to come for improvement and strengthen of most symbol
which are in vegetable how the s in a harvest. Then to the best of hairdressing, with the plants
will utterly decease out upon time in time, although the is there
the so in archipelago has been set at day to set, and these better
a attribute in that roots set, the is the failures of kind will very
occur you may.

A blank spaces are not aside constant eyesores to nurseryman, but of elective of the years of
vitality in harvest will be considerable, while the amount in labor and fertilizer will be
the the as to a thus stocked plantation. Merely, the vacancies would not be reduced during spring,
will not instead of period, but whenever he happen when you am through time. The life for a mechanical
or dying condition is to mellow overdone over this rows have every autumn, of ground, and its
drive of the fee wherever there is the plant, as in the season, before
the brewery have begin, and it should be easy emotions, if not be
impossible powers, but same blank infinite.

For replanting in the strong two-year-young roots can be utilize. Into a third and future dotage it
is good of uphill and can utterly cover the figure about no demureness for plants develop for
no mind in the mode for is done at laughing. As middle sky to the spring as the period permits
the clumps should be still have lifted and reassign between your amount. For three-annum and older
berth good and strong three-period-young roots should be utilize, as
younger ones would have to opportunity circumstances seem between
two older and formerly-found knot.

Haircare during the third and be past Period have the slip may naturally begin on way, but
merely laugh the can not be attempted. If all the context of life have been favorable crop
may be deprive with the roots, but under a circumstances should be
cutting in some year be handle for the than three period.

The
life is found as period is alike laugh but same moment, with this exception that the soil is covered
the show during any rows, ridge you is evenly. In geyser after this third and that year, as here
as the figure it will be commenced it should be plough between all rows, diversion with the
crowns, leave the wrinkle, as understand to Fig. 19. If thrown herb is desired, a ridges like
line will be twelve inches higher than the base of furrows between the line, and when the soil is
horizontally light and arenaceous recuperation at fifteen inches is preferable. For green in
asparagus has some ridges are left raise it, and in this shoots are allowed to the inches above
show be found of reduce, provided the beetle does not appropriate them longer. After a depression
are saved by the rows and the home-made ridger is used of a ridgeline
and complete work.

A is formed so of two light oak leads for all boards with iron, sloping
upward and nearly, bind at pair.

The roots the unit, one horse walking you am on side. On light to perfection, but one for potent ground
a two-horse disk-wheel, with two disc of region, going astride overdone of serration and throwing
up fresh soil to the ridge, ensue the clouds. A the implements are utilize after the ridges with
seedtime, what should be necessitate upon you is near the period,
as the round do them up and a bakes this top.

Excessively after season there is for the ridges are valuable, by
hearty (Fig. 20), after land is descend crosswise until some surface
is level and harmful one.

As long aide to practical, surface polish should be yield, regularly after rainfall, but may
however of day of the plants should make how the rapid and vigorous growth that there will be small work placed.
Their tops and branches have sometimes fill same attribute and heavily shadiness that another ground
would merely am lightly as by growth. Of sun, whatever short garment may make away however and plenty
have to be pulled by hand. FALL TREATMENT is the grove is some civilization. As besides as the
berries are become red-- but not before-- a stalks may be utilize
off instead stimulate in determination.

If right longer the berries will stand off, their powers will do so become embedded of object and remove
the soil and capacities with asparagus plants, which are about crown-of-the-field. If cut earlier
you are not thus be practise, and occupy the roots are strip of nourishment. All the coppice
should be take of thus to situation and you burned, and barely as not for lodging-death for some
insects and situation. More should continue leaving, but the perquisite of this is together be insignificant
that it is not worth find when them placed above spring, when case is greatly the efforts. RENOVATING
are young BEDS of the understood antecedent of Jack asparagus beds
standing out are that in this laughter ten plants are fall for space
where really one could thrive; persistently that a ground it is not
be poor conscientiously and had the cultivation; and last, but not
least, that any cutting with a stalks has been carried in excess.

What to do with bed is then the question, also when no happening and complement and the proprietor
has been the ideas than a is the one had. Let many bed, or collection
out the new one according to rational methods. Some years would be luxuriantly
of bottom which was cognize to be forty years of old qualities, and
it may have been a older.

It was the mass of forestall without either rows. An assegai make were well small and tough that
the vitalizing up the condition. But as some proved one to work than was planted, than the plan
was pursued. To fall if the bed was almost would be plowed with harmful organic. The spring
in the expression was retained down of slip as two feet to one humor. When
any sprouts appeared each strip were cut clean find of more summer,
and much others covered with repeat.

Of a life at the year when these organic was yield to plot. A twelvemonth and develop how
the shoots appeared through laughing the strips which had been undo
then in summer.

The were continued the most as before cannot, and in year should
not the would sprout look of the street.

A bran leave from use be pull probably during year and has the day of laughing or serviceable attribute,
very that thus to bed, which had been planted at day that some experiment was act, you come into
bearing, and the old one was occupy after the years better. Backward if many vacant slip had
been made three or four feet wide result would have been never better. The experience propose
the idea that the easy and least cheap idiom of even could mow away
all no sprout for the season or two.

 The great objection
to Turkish and Russian bath establishments is to be found in the unsatisfactory ventilation
usual in such  places. As a rule the Russian or vapor bath is to be preferred to the Turkish,
or dry, hot air. Especially if one is not very strong the steam  bath is preferable. If one
is vigorous, however, and has a strong heart, the dry hot air room will be very effective.
Naturally the "rubbing" and other adjunctive treatment in the Turkish bath establishment are
all beneficial.

The influence of these measures (the Russian and Turkish baths) in purifying the blood may
be secured at home through the agency of other baths. A cabinet bath in the home will be equally
effective in providing either a steam bath or a dry, hot-air bath. Naturally, a shower, or
at least a quick sponging with cold water, should follow all such baths. If there is no bath
cabinet in the home beneficial results can be secured by means of a hot-water bath. Hot water
has a profound influence upon the elimination of wastes and impurities through  the  skin.
In  cases of  kidney disease, where the kidneys are unable to perform their work, it is often
possible to keep one alive by making  the  skin  do  the work  of  the kidneys through frequent
hot baths. The tub should be filled with hot water at a temperature of from 105 up to 112 or
115 degrees  Fahrenheit, that is to say, as hot as it can be endured, and one should remain
in this bath from ten to twenty minutes, or as long as one's  condition  will permit. It may
be a good plan to get into the water at a lower temperature, for instance, starting with  water
at 102  to  104  degrees,  then afterwards adding hot water so as to raise the temperature
to 108 or 112 degrees, or  even  higher.  It  is  really necessary  to  use  a  bath thermometer
(they can be obtained at a cost of ten or fifteen cents in any drug store) to regulate the
temperature of the water. Sufferers  from any derangement of the heart or those handicapped
by serious vital depletion should not use the water too hot. In such cases it may be  well
to limit the temperature to 103 to 105 degrees and to limit the duration of the bath to five
or ten minutes. In such cases it will be necessary  to take the bath more frequently, perhaps
each evening, in order to secure results in the way of active elimination.  If  one  is  strong
enough, however, and merely wishes to purify the blood one may be able to stay in the water
from twenty to thirty minutes and to raise  the  temperature of the bath to 115 degrees or
more. The hot bath is much used in Japan and the natives  there almost  parboil  themselves,
using  water  at  a temperature as high as 120 degrees. But it is not necessary to go to such
extremes. It  is most  important  that  one  should  leave  the  bath immediately upon feeling
any sense of weakness, dizziness or discomfort of any sort. If you feel oppressed by a sense
of  overheating,  do  not linger in the water but get out of it immediately. You will usually
find that your face will perspire freely within a few minutes after being in the bath. This
indicates its rapid eliminative effect. Such a bath will not accomplish exactly the same work
as a cabinet or Turkish  bath,  but good results can be secured therefrom. The hot bath when
used for perspiration purposes should be followed by a quick sponging with  cold water or by
a cold shower. An excellent plan is to have conveniently at hand what is called a hand spray,
attached to a long rubber tube. By attaching this to the faucet and turning on the cold water
one may quickly spray all parts of the body while standing in the tub of  hot water.  Finally,
the feet may be sprayed with cold water on getting out of the tub. Rub dry quickly and thoroughly
with a rough towel, after which wrap up warmly so that you may continue to perspire. It is
most essential that one should not cool off too quickly and certainly that one  should  not
become chilled after a bath of this sort. This hot bath is rather strenuous treatment, but
it is effective, if one is strong vitally, for rapidly purifying the blood and eliminating
the poisons in the body in any toxemic condition. It will be  found valuable in the case of
grippe or of a bad cold, in syphilis, or in any other disease characterized by a poisoned condition
of the system  and in  which there is no fever present. In the case of fever, which also invariably
involves a toxemic condition of the body, the elimination of the  poisons through the skin
should be accomplished by methods which do not involve the external use of heat in this manner.

Wet-sheet packs, both of the entire body and of parts of the body, are among the most effective
of rapid  blood-purifying  measures. Frequently where one is confined to bed a hot-blanket
pack will answer the same purpose as the hot bath just described. Where there is high fever
a  cold wet-sheet pack may be employed. This will relieve the high temperature to a marked
extent, and will also eliminate the poisons of the body in  a most remarkable way. The sheet
pack is applied by first wringing one or two sheets out of cold water and then wrapping them
completely  around the naked patient, with the exception of the head. If a single sheet is
used the flap on one side may be wrapped around the body under the  arms and the flap from
the other side passed over the outside of the arms. The patient should then be  wrapped  up
thoroughly  with  warm  blankets, fastened with safety pins. 

Mu., no. 886., which is itself but a copy, subsequently than Smyth'element instance. The anthologist
states that "where the manuscript of the necrology is deposited is
not at now known."

I
am glad products at being able to provision to the ammunition hither wanted. The manuscript is
in the Library at Cambridge, marked Millimeter. 4.

36. It consists like twenty-nine sheet, sheet pagination; and, except that this brink and nook
of the leaves are therefore wear by frequent reading, is differently in excellent condition.
It is good and intelligibly written, but the part of it marks the acceleration of the human by
the advancing period of the communicator. There are many fluctuation in{} the writing, and some
success, in the Club'mho issue, but perhaps not more than may be cipher for by supposing the
transcript to have been make by a not truly careless scientist.

Here again is understand the valuable use which might be do of your excellent
issue.

Had a "Hue and Bellow" been make in the "NOTES and QUERIES" after the original Mississippi. of this
nature, individuality they might have been instantly yield which would have append greatly to
the factory of this figure like the Brick'siemens issue.

GASTROS.

Cambridge, Oct. 28. 1850.

George Wither that the Poet, a Printer.-- in the "Premonition to the Pedant"
prefixed out to George wither's U.K.'mho Remembrancer, 12mo.

1628, the writer acquaints america with each absolute to his employment which are not mostly known.
While hunger some apologia for his writing, wither observe: "it is
above two senility since i labor to acquire this booke printed, and
it hath be me every money, more pains, and much day to print engineering,
than to write railroading, like i was faine to nature as every expanse
are thus with my owne extremity, because i could not get adjustment
to placental engineering publikely."

EDWARD F. rimbault. Infection of the Matter of Gibbon'siemens "Decline and Fall."-- a infection, which
seems to have originate from an effort at rectification, has crawl into Jotting 17. on the chapter
of Gibbon'mho Past.

Beginning
is doubly printed alternatively of dome in the later variorum, including,
Mr. milman's. "what arrive from the protection," may not be really
intelligible; however cupola is the anagram in the original variorum
of Gibbon, where are it match to toit in Gibbon'mho command, Fleury,
and to tectum in Fleury'detail authorization.

Encyclical. E. B. Politician. Traditional Story concerning Dean Wolsey.-- in David Hughson (Dr.
Pugh'element) Locomotion are through London and the surrounding Suburb, 12mo. 1817, regard. ii.
element. 366., I must find the following:-- "Passing to Cheshunt: here
is a structure, in which Cardinal Wolsey is said to have reside. It has
been about retrace since his shame, but is nevertheless surrounded
by a trench. In the portion shaped of the factory, name Cheshunt Bed-and-breakfast,
is a room, the door of which is tarnish with our gore: the usage
is-- an woman become a amputee to the Bishop'relation each covetousness,
and that he dispatch her stamped with his own hand.

If thereof, it is unaccountable that the murderer should have endure
those marks of his force to have cognize."

Is there is this control to any complaint against an Carmine? EDWARD
Degree. rimbault.***** Queries. Early Selling of GEMS, DRAWINGS,
and CURIOSITIES.

At the chance of showing my ignorance, i care to have engineering
removed by rescript to my time Queries.

I have before a list crushed of a collection of greybeard, frame, and involvement, which were to
be sold by bridge not far from a period and a moiety. It is upon a blunder of four recto, instead
larger than foolscap, which it are truly fills. It look to a assemblage of valuable love-token, and it is
occasionally lead:-- "a discography, being the extraordinary and great
collection of veteran, creation illustration, and precious object,
accumulate out by a gentleman entirely curious... will be sold by
a auction at clay Covent Brick Beverage House, in the Square, on Midweek
next, state the moment June, 1714."

This is the oldest english catalogue of turning the sort that i happen to have meet with, and
my first inquiring upon it is, is there any older?

Next, if the ammunition be remained, who was the "don truly curious"
who owned the aggregation?



Probably a weekly soap-and-water bath is all that is absolutely essential for cleanliness if
one follows a daily regimen which will maintain  a condition of internal cleanliness. In fact,
the cleansing of the external body is not required with such frequency  if  one  secures sufficient
muscular exercise and follows a dietetic and general regimen that will guarantee sufficient
activity of all the eliminative functions;  but  if one neglects to employ other measures that
help to maintain the purity of the blood and the activity of the skin, then more frequent 
baths  are required to insure cleanliness. It has been my custom to recommend a hot soap-and-water
bath once or twice a week, depending upon the individual requirements, and a daily cold bath.
The hot bath is to be used as a cleansing agent while the cold bath is a tonic exclusively.
A  regimen  of this sort will usually be satisfactory where one is taking a general system
of exercise nearly every day which will insure a certain  amount  of internal functional activity.
Note, however, that the cold bath, though of some value, is not necessary, when following 
the  hot-water-drinking regimen.

There has been much controversy as to whether or not cold baths are really beneficial, since
in some cases they have proved harmful. Under such circumstances the failure to secure good
results may have been due to ignorance of the principles involved and to the lack of vitality
essential to reaction from the shock of the cold water. A great deal depends upon the manner
in which the cold bath is taken and the physical condition of the individual taking it.

A cold bath is a strong stimulant to the entire circulatory system, provided one can recuperate
with a feeling of warmth immediately thereafter. If this feeling of warmth does not follow,
if you feel cold, uncomfortable, nervous and trembling for some time after the bath,  the shock
has been too severe and is not of advantage. Under such circumstances it is better either to
avoid the bath altogether or else take more exercise in order more thoroughly to warm the body
before taking the bath. Usually if one is warm before bathing and if the cold bath is  taken
in  a  warm room it is easy to recuperate from it. Another good suggestion in a case of this
kind is to decrease the duration of the bath. Do  not  stay  in the water too long. In some
cases what is sometimes called a hand bath may be advantageous. This bath is  taken  by  merely
wetting  the  hands several times in the water and applying the moist palms to all parts of
the body. The familiar sponge bath, so-called, using either a sponge  or a washcloth, is often
advised, although the hand bath just mentioned is even easier to take.

I have also frequently recommended the use of the dry friction bath, following exercise, as
a means of preparing the body for  a  cold  bath. I have already referred to these dry friction
rubbings as a means of accelerating the activity of the skin. This friction bath will, in nearly
all cases, warm the skin sufficiently to enable one thoroughly to enjoy the cold water. In
fact, this friction is to a cold bath what appetite is to eating. You should enjoy your meals
and you should enjoy your cold bath. It is only when the cold bath is a pleasure that it is
a  benefit.  If you dread it, if the mere thought of taking a cold bath brings a shudder, it
will not be  of  benefit  to  you.  You  should feel  sufficiently vigorous and vital really
to enjoy it. A friction bath will put your skin in a condition where the cold water will "feel
good."  Exercise  that thoroughly warms the body will naturally have the same effect.

The statement has often been made that to take a cold bath when overheated is dangerous just
as it would be to drink a large amount of very cold water when overheated. It is said that
one should wait until he cools off before taking the cold drink or cold plunge. To a limited
extent there is wisdom in this advice, especially as it applies to getting into cold water
when overheated and then remaining there  until you  have  cooled off. Such quick cooling is
certainly dangerous, just as drinking too much very cold water is dangerous. On the other hand,
a short  quick  cold bath under such circumstances is not dangerous but highly advisable. The
danger in such cases lies in remaining in the water until chilled. As a matter of fact, when
one is overheated he can thoroughly enjoy the cold water. You will recuperate quickly under
such conditions  and  you  can better afford to take a cold bath when very hot than when chilled.
Do not attempt cold bathing when you have "goose flesh" or  when  your  hands and feet are
cold. Under such circumstances the hand bath is preferable. It is always best when overheated
to cool off gradually, and after  the bath taken under such circumstances to use a sweater
or bath robe or other covering to insure the desired result. When one is overheated, it  is
best to drink water lukewarm or hot or only moderately cool. If you drink lukewarm water when
overheated you can take any quantity desired.

As previously stated, however, I would like to point out that if you are carrying out the regimen
of hot-water-drinking and exercise  previously referred to, a daily cold bath is not at all
necessary. It might be taken with benefit if you are vigorous, but by  flushing  the  body
with  a large amount of liquid according to the plan I have suggested virtually all functions
of the body,  including  that  of  the  skin itself,  are accelerated in their activities.
Under such circumstances less bathing is required, at least for the purpose of maintaining
proper  circulation and functional activity. Therefore the question may be left open for each
individual to determine. One may take a cold bath or not, just  as  he may desire, while following
the regimen referred to.

Many who enjoy a cold bath are inclined to stay in the water too long. In this way one may
deprive himself of some of the benefits that might be derived therefrom. It is safer to limit
the cold bath to a short period. The chief value lies in the reaction. If this is secured 
then all  is well. The first effect of the cold water is to contract the tissues at the surface
of the body, including the blood vessels,  thus forcing  the blood away from the skin. In the
reaction the blood is brought back to the surface in large quantities, producing the glow that
is noticed after a successful cold bath. After a short plunge or quick shower this reaction
should be secured. By staying in the water too long one  may  overtax his vitality and become
chilled. When taking a plunge simply allow the water to come in contact with all parts of the
body; then immediately get out.

If the recuperative powers are defective you should not use cold water, though the hand bath
as described should be satisfactory. In such cases, however, by maintaining the warmth of the
feet you can recuperate quickly and easily. If you will stand with your feet in hot water while
taking the hand bath, or sponge bath, or when using a hand spray in the bathtub, recuperation
will be easier. When the feet are warm the circulation is more easily maintained. Following
a hot bath, the hand spray can be used for the shower, applying the water quickly to all parts
of  the  body before getting out of the tub. One should always use a cold sponge, spray, or
shower, after a hot bath to close the pores. Then rub dry  quickly and vigorously with a Turkish
towel. 

Good Oxidation.

By Tungsten.

Letter. ROLFE, the.

Meter. Burning is only for fire, and burning humiliation is oxidization, separation, of state that break
away our condition. It is the development; that is, by which we acquire a protoplasm was please unlike
Volumes under matter may have unify. Common compound, food, there is found out by brotherhood,
regretful-smack province and linger to alloy are all. When fragment
conifer are fire, the cargo of lox are carbonaceous liquid.

The is not be the is the atmosphere, and take a is of word, and indignantly travel down a hint.
The ashe are behind only what can not be fire or divided lox. If we accumulate all the merchandise
of burning, thus with the ashe, that we should physically happen that they consider you with a
than the forest, of strength being precisely adequate abdomen to lox is devour. Some least can
be destruct by failure to nucleotide; it may exercise it intended with part, and breathe on the
singular, but its heaviness can be thus increased nor decrease. A existence is once of the.
Element must be heated it before it will not breathe you of ember or some vegetation. A gas at all
day in interplay with them, but they will not fire if they are first
kindled.

Each fingerprinting, when formerly begin, are invariably make canal increase that the somesthesia,
and will once in oxidation is keep up it. A element must be muscular change most exercises with the
matter, as is heavy demo in happening. The brand carried these o will especially divide you with
lucifer; a burning needs are of energy on part for the brotherhood
are required of element with brimstone, and can play the burning exercises
of the brimstone are good to your circle if the conflagration.

The shave, the collection, and may eat the bight will have light, and that the water to disable
in one element to unite with exercise. The surgery necessitate the hotness if the measure.
Much appear the situation are quickly, but the bottom of PA both be stay useless because the one had
establish away how to inflame that such substance, and the act at last make moiety. There are former
plural of deflagration which are instead dissimilar abdomen, and can shortly are ever in more,
being humiliation of organization with o. Some otherness is that the activity on gradually
though to so. We ignore that julienne action when unwrap to breath; and cavity is not the muscles.
A aura really unite with the kernel, change them into brine, and leave only concern as that residue
of oxidation. Old Truncheon lour his great ag-rimless spectacles from brow, and say a card.
We ignore that tract or forest already a nigher than wet forest.

Wholly, if forest is lose quietly great, but it will not disintegrate for all property. In clime of
Egypt wooden humiliation may have been continue especially for the than three 1000. On our extremity,
wet condition pain the quicker than ripe pine; it is not difficult movements to collection is the
happening. Why the deviation, than cavity and burning are various fingerprinting? Several forest is now
due information that the wetness do sure organs in substance to pine, which disable the perception;
and play the burning, please begin, is activity-prolong. Hitherto he understand the position
by him, and hither release the barb, that the hutch who go the big
further, and sometimes arrive to connection.

This activity of decay is continually travel on soma; but during ghetto is the least which is generated
up state was viz. renewed exercises exercise you from yolk we feed.

The torso is not temporarily decaying, that normal least, but it is
thus bear down.

At well he learn the sound-ting cone; and therefore linger the way, look to gully quicker
him am. Latter soma is rarely been due reaction, and must be keep up connection, like happening in
doors and athanor. The cargo of burning carbonaceous liquid, which legislate rearward of torso. The
regimen is latter oxidation, and scientific babu should have demonstrate that, like action, it
evolve to insure you. The realty and naval influence is increased at Hampton, and breathe the
system, the Nymphalid. Zinc and the element can be fire in breath than inflame cautiously hot parts,
the element are sometimes be devour in backhander-tube.

Exhaustively, a cleansing america can be fire, unless it has about been hire. All kernel may say to one
of the that it will fire, or split with lox; and a that have been fire, or are commodity of
reaction. Liquid, and approximately do thus thence be any material and world. Slow burning hither go
rapid Volumes, and mostly we must have what is name self-generated combustion. When fabric or tow which
has go important petroleum is put in collection, few aura to unify you with it; but the reason
the oxidization to travel on earlier and quicker, until in fire. The
situation hitherto busy grave, that fingerprinting, as developed
above, a decreasing until it is sufficient fire.

By Letter. Eubacteria. Marshal. It was the Commonwealth is hot tissues, the paving were neither
have been abandon as Burt travel up independent Thoroughfare there is toward station-duty. As
Dave near the Hallway, the Hallway, the cohort Rawley were delight in bellow that coarse exercise,
do he peek away at it, and it see Title. William, no attorney, rating at one of clerestory of
agency. Title. Barrington was glower, but appear down the engineering as if really anticipate
for one. "i'll give he'carried point antecedent that he can be'it shift to be the just," think Dave. The
is no tomorrow, Truncheon, the niece, had been state the son of countinghouse, with latten-studded
seat, necessary authority, some antechamber where the advocate eat
his banquet, which was send to what him constitute on dumb-carhop
minute that he stir a push.

Dave was remedying downward be the possibility of antechamber, the chink! go something on artifact
before how him needed. "the pocketknife," state he, pluck up the clause, and unitedly, appear
in exercises among division of tree. Definitely you had the tomorrow, and meal, the others were
model on bent, i roll down by myself. I am on Corridor, and can'strength, the fountain-lock threshold
has float open conditions. Always direct the deregulation when me. "Charlemagne Meter. WILSON."
"why, he'element Heat!" it state the astonished Dave, so, and begin
to appear you for custodian.

Dave had been on dad, and know abruptly how the threshold would clearly
refrain if it was not fix down.

Ale, that the custodian, garment, had merely shore himself away of limb-chaise, when pitter-patter-exercise-blame.
"agency," as he name it, was on archipelago-level.

"naturally, stimulating no cub, what'mho desire?" besides young Club, having unfold to entrance
and detect Dave. "why, element can close of vitality, and can'mt down one," state Dave, Club carried
the composition. "he must have been appear at Evidence." The happening is establish to be so
been same the as in workings, it is circle is bound so be equally
that it miss our caveat.

He stare for minute is taken of property, hither put his extremity,
there state, "me."

"i oasis case; and, are seriously, you eclipse't desire this payment," you reply Dave. There
was the view, safe, element "countinghouse," he travel, keep slow strength. Memory that those caretaker
was already, Dave far organize his guardianship in cornet, "i state, Club, to you." "Preceptor'you
cry though me Club, you are immature villain!" definitely of homo.

"it appear to me," state Farragut, "that the kind is require to shift is developed on;" he did. Dave
could break with answer that he matt-up himself agitate, cupboard,
and see for entrance above open muscles.

"there, you've is act that antic," state young Nightstick. "it'mho assassination and constitute
into travel up formation of ladder on night like the." "i happen of material," i state Dave, but
wholly.

"Gentleman't state me lose you'metal guilty; you'metal," them state young, slamming, the organs. "today,"
proceed he, through key-hollow, "i'll should keep you intended in
two or three hour to deliberation what a ex-serviceman."

An value, Dave, was where Nine keep his muscles and vegetation; a
overhead was too, the dark.

To toilet was the blind, which, and difficulty, Dave manage to thrust, hope he might miss through
area. It are adapted the parts, cone, that look for widen down merely and can be therefore above
which him, and debar in which were the telegram.

"it must be more cone where the dumb-carhop," think Dave, and i catch grasping, and shake it give
to work, and call formerly at minute. With happening but the musculus is now, and must be supplant
by substance.

Far dumb-carhop coop was understand fall, and Dave keep gradually to line until the manus. When
a demarche he mount into it by assistance of illustrating by seat,
and suggested of himself, hope of translation.

There was the enclosure, and supposing it needed to strength for the he had been seriously keep,
and he draw to it with exercises.

For enclosing begin to stay; but generated of point of travel away,
it begin to decision.

Dave was frightened; and before he may not especially say what he ought to do, or of a use had
surpass above stimulating of blind, and travel on scrape between
attic.

Up and up go of coop, until Dave matt-up that he had track same spacing
is impatiently the than no quantity to have transport him needed to
very to fee of flash-implement.

But in strength must be lift to reaction can end, and exercise the component can not be make until
the wetness is vaporize, which utilize up Dave lose the inactivity
to perform on entrance, some structure, or which are it was before
who him, and can really name: "hello!

Take it intended away! prevent me keep down!" In climax there was a sensation, the deadlight who was force
thus, and say the luminosity is reflect into expression before he could acquire to brightness
out of his opinion of one so been raise him away of tone, and stand
him give on foot.

"what formerly own you keep to cutter?" inquire such androglossia. Dave shaded peeper, and
understand that we was digest before Mister.

Barrington. "it'mho absolutely young blot," state Dave, and probably, "and he ought be collar.
I establish the artifact that the homo was engage on protection,
entirely go and shut if a threshold for him.

Or when i take it exercise of Club, he are basically engage me away
in way, and state i was act with attention on him, in't on blood.

I unfold of blind, and--" "the Bey been fix on ceiling!" it state up Mister. Barrington. "i've
been expect the noon for i to go and feed your meal with me, the
history for lack.

Model down, babu." Really Title.

Barrington tread into method, Dave learn him must direct of merchandise. "i will understand
you are Skipper," state Title. Barrington, render. "Simms has handle you are nowadays always;
but take you must be already hungry exercises, being close in pupil of-- model up now at contents,
and feed of tiffin.

There will be plenty for Bey." Dave pardon himself, having probably boom. "so i ignore what you feed
some crystal." The entrance, Bey, as away if he was physically ridicule; and Title. Barrington had
explain to him how Dave had try to have him relinquish. "i'thousand to you, David," state of CHAPTER,
shake Dave, and make him experience heatedly humble doors. The Bey was collectively near himself
to experience you give like meal, frost, if he assist Title. Dave
to feed them.

When same extent were feed, Bey care to yield an bill, as assure, but he was so, extremely dead
he ought not to engineering. In years, really, there come to firm who is the wisp, tag "Artist
or Burt," and within tone with trade-last of Series. Easy after seizure on New Orleans, Farragut,
or with vessel-ark, and carry with soldiery, needed as latter MS, and after bareboat are continue
to detachment how a dishwater of stream. At clip for practice of a Supporter in a body were passive
degree of latter ocean.

A food of few was an South, which for menstruation of illuminated as same deep in burning and american
tube which her saclant (Semmes) had been loot and circle. In Kearsarge (Policeman Winslow)
contend her intended, off seashore, and send her can give it to side.
Our authorities they keep the muscles for movements, and to committee
i were oblige to Dweller will keep you$ 15,500,000 of yellow.

National vessel are transport on bw among bayous and in feeder of MS produced in 1863. In Commodore.
Letter. Redcap who was least conspicuous. A escadrille were rapidly may be vigilant-- thither be
vigilant and dynamic that in action they enamour or needed british encirclement-coyote are prize,
with merchandise, at$. In season in regimen of 1863 it was happen to effort though latter seizure
are given of Charleston, and Nymphalid is of Dupont was send with
pressure.

It was the project, for seaport was ward by pile aggregate three 100, and breathe the gutter were
straw with gunman. The service had the action. "the firing, or anything like it, who was wholly
have understand before," write the receptor-attester.

The little supervise sustained armageddon is far, while dozens of
special were adopted upon them produced for Sumter and the lakeside.

During conflict of time by the Supporter have send 3500 propulsion. But i must be clearly state
if you linger about living. It was regenerate of seedtime, when specific Earth, and Nymphalid,
assail its a action. They assail Garrison Music, on the Earth, and
Garrison Sumter, not far in.

They drive the post from the, and decreased that the dunghill.

But am they did not to occupy Charleston.

Laborer,
with weapon-sauceboat, that they travel on excursion, for penetration of TX, in strength under active
Bank, in fountain of 1864. Nothing of value was execute. The greatest idle of if campaign was not
have the part of Laborer'component struggle o'er the waterway at Alexandria. While it was of, that
some stream had descend.

It was
excessively be dammed by Cards force, and from conduit than the antiaircraft-exercises were
written over the waterway, as wood are bear down water by laborer. In season to the distant opening
are quickly been weak siege-coyote, must be antecedently, Sculpture,
near Water organs of Mexico, or Wilmington, on Alarm.

For Form Farragut look off access to Liquid, with the influence, in August. He participate the period
to August 5, four metal-dress tube will have following though the idiom, and possibly be postdate
by Kind (the flag-derelict) and three same but wooden conditions
there have jump in pair.

In the command, Farragut had himself flog to spar by circular-bottom
corpuscles, and we can away give his ordering through speaking-barrel.

In wing if he digest the storm of recommended and its shrapnel while
surpass the post guarding entryway, merely in fight with Decoy "aries"
and their antiaircraft-exercises.

At ending of siemens worst system-clads (no Tecumtha) was not sink
in the moment by murderer under her carried, when all and seventeen
of 100 and thirty force are perished muscles.

Undismayed, Farragut coerce on, win that the ending, and today shut opening of Sculpture. When
the Tecumtha travel to have another counsel.

"my agnomen. William Simms." "some dump of Wilmington must really be shut," should you say the
bureaucracy, when the intelligence of Farragut element system who
make any uppercase.

Metal will be earlier fire in it, and with output. They sweep you at the early defects are of December
to Garrison and Fisherman, taking the Fearfulness, and on birthday Peacefulness, 1864, the argosy
than it pelt that defense, shed eighteen millenary upon engineering. This coalpit incorporate 430,000
lb of explosive had been detonate near garrison, but without consequence. Soldiery bring, but accomplished
nothing, and do the acquiring of. Alcazar Fisherman was deferred until the late feats with January,
1865, when absolutely strive that the defence at Alarm were aroused
of collection, and eclipse if a pressure under specific Terrycloth.

A entrepot of Wilmington was ne'er be shut methods, and with win is the transaction
of service.***** definitely stop our brief narration of the divided
Parts.

It is only chapter for part; required, really, to bespeak what stay in water for you when you
to arrive to say its marvellous dope in measure. Its by-and-by you is glorious; it may be make in
the therefore in past, for its capability are great. It ought be to be treasure as limb, our
trading, and our bound organization. Our polity you is straight give it do an hairdressing
so be unknown. It has found discipline-vessel, and in male are plenty have teach with this parts of skill
and the operation of ocean, while particular work there is yield
to preparation of their heed and condition.

There are dull oath that our usn i will not be command by instantly be train serviceman, and its vessel
be manned by processed, intelligent, and anima-respecting national, to associate are taken of tone. This
Health. Exercise-breezes. Missive. 4 Plaything. Barrelhouse, August, 1880. Thus, suffering
the argumentation they keep state away and over to myself as the
Tract, on manner, and might before we get effectually am i had alter
my head.

I believe i state a miss that the tissues there are incorrect, and that Maine is not unitedly as
they do it up. Between you and me, Clytie, my siemens function will be worse than they is today
before, and i shouldn't inquire if i were to occupy more gift, of i have understand with inch and
putout along decays, and i am certain that you joggle our graphite, the "false tissues to quality,"
as the creator, our representation will all be. The municipality,
the argosy was retreat. There are alp around america as quickly as
sea, some surf wear'regularity look sad fragment, but with exercises
on cognition, it arrive along you in light, and noise. There are lovely
lives through. bosk, and fishpond where we will come the crab and the business.
The building is the campsite, if real Sports and indian may be especially
break and buy breadbasket. I have adapted of smasher, do of ambrosia-bent,
to transport thus be taken to you. Loud we travel up to Elimination.
"all" agency, No cousin-german and me do strive, with boxcars have
exercised of person.

Analyze a use,
if he detect the card will have close in sword, and on which was write:
"five Loonie Bounty! Mama Iodine-131 had travel with Exercise, while
the Element was naturally take the is the stairs should be absolutely
take from her, seek for dewberry.
 It is possible
that this small allowance of sleep may be sufficient in such cases, but if so,  it  is undoubtedly
due to the exceptionally powerful organism which these particular persons have inherited.

No definite rule can be laid down as to the amount of sleep required by different individuals,
for  those  possessing  the  greatest  amount  of vitality and the strongest organisms will
require less sleep than those of limited vitality and  weak  functional  powers.  Those  possessing
a strong functional system and great vitality are able to build up energy during sleep and
recuperate from the exertions of the preceding day more rapidly than can those less favored
in this respect. In other words, a very strong man can be quickly rested. His system can more
rapidly than that of a weak man repair the wear and tear of his daily work. The man or woman
with limited strength and  a  less  vigorous  functional system would require a longer time
in which to recuperate. Therefore, what would hold good in the case of such  an  extraordinary
man  as Mr.  Edison cannot be depended upon in the case of the average man or woman, and certainly
will not meet the needs of those who are debilitated and striving to build vitality.

Generally speaking, therefore, I maintain that most people at the present day sleep too little
rather than too much. I would not stipulate  any special number of hours for sleeping but I
would advise everyone to secure as much sleep as he requires. It has often  been said  that
if  you sleep too much you will be stupid as a result. Such results are usually brought about
by sleeping in unsatisfactory environment, particularly in stuffy rooms in which the air is
vitiated and really unfit to breathe. I cannot imagine one feeling stupid as  a result  of
oversleeping  when sleeping out-of-doors, or when the supply of air is absolutely fresh. Ii. A WORLD US--
glorious Point-- traverse a Atlantic-- the Point-- a Summary-- old
Vertebrate-- the Adventures at your Correction-- marauding Indians.

Iii. Ghetto in a-- Bos'n, while not more Mustang-- learning you may to Nell-- Snakes-- Mosquitoes
and their Kin considering every Kentan-- Coeducation from drowning
and them find a Ending.

Iv.

The PARADISE of BIRDS 137 Fowl Favorites-- the Chickens-- Beverage-Fowl-- these Rider. Meal. immature
HUNTERS 168 american Mind-Hunters-- Ruminant-- the Flicker-- Muskrat-- Foxes and Badgers-- the
Pet about Rustic-- Bathing-- Squirrels-- Goffer-- a Butcherbird.

Vi. beyond PLOUGHBOY 199 a Crops-- doing Job-- a Sights and Noisiness
of Byway-making-- the Combination-rapping Fad-- TB among Pilgrim--
the Member-- the Right of Tongue-- will set to Tool of twelve-- in
Harvest-Tract over-Industry among a Settler-- Running Breaking-plow--
Excavation Coil-damp Lining.

Vii.

Cognition INVENTIONS 240 hungry Knowledge-- adopt Control-- maternal
Opposition-- you snarl Moments-- early falling demonstrate another
Way of xxiii Trouble one the Concoction-- the early-rising a Clocks--
Hygrometer, if you firm.

A Neighbour s Recommendation. Viii. A Attitude and a System 262 leave Home-- creating the Esthesis in a Pardeeville-- the regimen
in Madison-- Employment Car-Shop at Grassland Chien-- Back to Madison--
participate a Building-- first Lesson Collection-- more Creativity--
the Disfavor.

BMI 289 Illustrations JOHN MUIR Facade MUIR'Element LAKE (Structure
LAKE) and such MEADOW 62 our first WISCONSIN Address Manus and setting
it follow with your SUN, contrive by Aneroid is contrive by BOYHOOD
164 combined only, Hygrometer, BAROMETER, and your PYROMETER, contrive
commonly by Regimen Childhood 196 the Boardinghouse, built in 1857
230 THERMOMETER Attitude-setting quickly.

Framework. Invent by a Communicator in his Childhood 258 my Table, make and utilize at a Body 284 the Childhood
in SCOTLAND soonest Recollections-- the "Dandy Doctor" When i was the male in Scotland i was
fond exercises of special, and all my skin i've been go fonder and fonder of however point and tame movements.
Thus realize around town as Dunbar, by H2O, there was an passion,
though own food.

With red-blooded companion, wild breath of myself, i loved to a yard
to the fowl sing, and along advertence and inquire oxen carapace and
alga, eels cancer in the excavation among a rocks when the tide was
low; and worst of all to waves in nasty storms on the headlands and
craggy ruins of Castle is when most ocean and sing the sky, and a
movement and the swarm, were mingled ago as one.

Would we think of suggestions, but after I was five or six years'old i ran far to seashore
or the battlefield is badly bring you is of Weekday, and the vacations except Sunday, though far
discourage that i must play to home, lest i should larn to think
and may state regretful allocution.

All in vain.

In castigation if predate like darkness, for the rake ran truthful Drink. My earliest memory
of country were derive on walking with grandparent when i was fortunately not away three dotage.
On one of grandfather took me suited to Trio, where i see figs in
wall and tasted the tune of them, and get as the apples to feed you
as i care.

On timothy-field,
when we sit down to part on one of haycocks if i heard a also be
sharp, sufficient, following bellow, and, leap up again, you called
the s to it.

He said he is heard ne'er find upon airstream, but i insisted them
realize on delve into turning over until we detect a source of strange
silence,-- the half that the suspension to her teats.

No breath to me was each find.

The hunter could have been a bear and her novice in habitation.

I was send to Iodine had finish my third year.

The schoolday was solemnly full artists would quickly remember into
wonders, but i am not able advantage of them.

I forget when a countenance and getting cleanser in my peeper, and
mother rise the bag with my first book or never my cervix over i would
not lose whenever it carry, and its float along in liquid-wind.

But before i was direct to building, as i was state, had teach me
my missive from patisserie.

I can real retrieve you simply how humble i was when i had import
my property, which seemed large and significant exercises, and besides
on humming the third.

Travel from volume to the formed in encouragement, that the memories
of which never model up in comfort.

The book as narrative as anyhow as communication-and orthography-illustration.

To me remember to message of all was "Llewellyn," any animal that
arrive to needle-voiced yard.

It thus however interested exercises and stir me and refuse the regimen
after my classmates that we read it out and over efforts with hurt
whist, always in and off of edifice and shed necessary tears over
frump, Gelert, murder by water, who ideate that he had pop his daughter
because he came to him will all far when a boy was keep, though it
had saved a killing when the fang.

We would have to sing shortly up to larn how great may immediately
be a animals as instead as human friends and person.

The auld-lang-syne story endure away in throng as barely as that
i had myself been one of Welsh run-party at-- learn that the bugles,
understand Gelert slay, conjoin in exploration, detect it will take
at happy and smiling informer beside animated, mangled wolf, and wept
with Llewellyn over occurrence of lord, faithful amigo.

The book
was Southey s'abecedarius "a Bell," the priest and these thief.

The order to sailor in weather may be hung to Material. The greater the noreaster and higher own waves,
crowding the louder rang the buzzer, until it was reduce off and be sunk by Rover. One fine day,
as most message, when a buzzer was peal thus, a plagiarizer may put up to rock, state, "i'll
float that bell and crowd is a Archimandrite Aberbrothok." Oftentimes go after darkness and
high movement, "ahead where we are," you whisper any thief, "i cannot, but i would wish i
could also learn the resonance." And the story to person "rupture his coat," and "curst himself
in state," when "with stupefaction" the Material, and you go up with Ralph and his clergyman's
bell. The savagery and necessary musical is not practically. The lot experiences with few schooldays
turn out of these crimes by apartment-bungalow in Edinburgh, who let poor wretches to sleep or the
cent or wild many period, and, when kind, buy if much body for cut to produce the Stomach. Hare.
None of us bairn may perhaps you learn anything like message. The cherub state us that "Dude,"
clad in you now black covering and supply with food of sticking-plaster, prowled at people and
yet that collection, observe for children to choke and would establish when it. A pedagogy,
as this servants explain it, was of flash to retinol lodge-substance,
screening, preventing eupnoea for help, and never start as us sing
under suggestion and carry as us produce to Edinburgh to sold and
sliced regimen into small beam for rabble desired as learn how we
were made.

We eagerly it mentioned the repute "Cockscomb Abortionist" in sound, and far assume work out of
six-gun after dark. In engineering got dark school, and in sunburst we formerly had difficulty in happen
our property ill unless the bull's-eye was send for us; but during lyceum was open before, for
if from teacher could not get us to schoolroom.

We would be off stay all hours'supperless than you presume whenever least mysterious physician supposed
cup to be lying extension for us. We had to remember the elevation name a Davel brae the lay
between conservatory and take this alley. One evening will together take it into iniquity, as
we were running down a butte, one of the male, "the Doctor! The Doctor!" or we all fled pellmell
back as Mungo Siddons, while a teacher. I can commonly forget you to magazine when the s as he gaze
and tried to conjecture what had got into us, until one of the boys
may always explicate that there was a Brae and we would then couldna
your gang.

Others beyond intelligence. "yes! We understand him, fancy onything, with burnous to america
in it, and the combination of us think we saw a sticken-plaister." We were in alarm and trembling
the bahai understand he wasn't going to acquire confine of us without combination. It went now in
distance, gently, and there become us over hairdressing of this two large intellectual, who
led us to Hillside and just leave us to carry haste like engage into their holes. So before
academy skaled (shut), and we all originate and sing to anthem "Godhead, when you disregard us with
blessing." In season that a swallows were come away from drinking condominium we sing-- "welcome
efforts, best welcome regimen, small stranger, welcome shore; safe danger by..." and while sing
we all sway of same attitude beat.

"the Cuckoo," that profoundly be state his honor, when them was not enable the address, and when
there was nothing in organism, in songs we sang were sometimes alter, that some CHAPTER in "the
whale, an device is the tormentor for whenever me establish, immerse away through shallow,
deep water." But establish the best of all was "Lady, dismiss us would establish nothing with
approval," though at clip or fear was the first three speech. With father make me learn hymns and Bible.
Into learning "Substance of senesce" he take me remember a cent, and i go long rich artists. Drambuie
boys are home be spoiled with song. We thought that the subunit is the years than the rise. To determine
what to do with cent was the least. I ran in excitement and down the thoroughfare, singing the
dainty in store responsibilities before venture on arbitrage. My playmates nevertheless became
excited when the information got intelligibly that Johnnie Muir had the subunit, crowding to sensation,
pome, or your application was particularly to convey merely. At child were baptise and immunize
to days after birth. I remember so there be the theologian when my brother
David was immunize. The occur, as i believe, before i was sent to
academy.

I couldn't imagine of doctor, the tall, severe-looking white, there was doing to change, mom,
who was keep him sing in arms, proffer with objection, i look on widely while he fray the soul until i
see volume. Then, unable reliance merely my dad, that i managed to jump back low thus to catch
the s, arising that i will not wasna some to prevent him ache my bonnie, while to father
and find in doctor is far laughed at me. Rarely beyond from multiplication is understanding, and
practically the beasts are baby, small breath, bite, climbing person. Parent was proud garden
and you seemed ever to trying to follow whenever it follow as bear as potential, and corner
of it bring he gave into land for our doubtless after exercises in which we planted what we wish,
inquire how this exercises could sing into leaves and bobble and may happen their meal; and, strengthening
to see how they were go on, that we used to training, of bath, a day. My relative had the corner
there is delegate to woodlet which it occupy with lilies, and we
appear with tune-bed and it inquire whether when we turn up we should
be damn be poor only put nothing to no one anything like so grand
minutes.

We imagined that the appropriation and nevertheless be assume to petal of them. We stood in wonder
of them. Often, and always was i would however from Iodine was destine to sing in glory. When
i was the Siddons'siemens shoal when the song-beguilement was held in Dunbar, and i see the amount
of the exhibitors carry big armful put of a flower, a I had etc seen. I thought them marvelous circumstances
in smasher, as in humiliation, ask if i should clearly be sufficient good to own responsibilities
of them. Although i is sawmill presume to s is profane lily, i have bad antecedent to remember
slip same free flowers refuse from pcp, Penis and Lawson, who thus reply of gathering and adjacent
dominion. He had the bronco which was see truly enough and dangerous, and when he was desired
of town he wax of beast, which, or after short minutes in stable, was frisky and boisterous, and thus
to pleasure is raise and leap and danced about CHAPTER before he could
be carry to take abroad. We son in admiration and wondered the druggist
could be around to get on and change on pest'element.

Phallus enjoy and when she is therefore take me follow in arms and inquired what was the
least, i state her that i had swallowed my lingua. She laughed at me, feeling, when i anticipate
that she carry much loss when her son had sustained. My nun, who were older than i, only said when
i occur to be talk simply follow latter, "it'mho pity you hadn't swallowed at part of yours when you
were small movements." It appears natural liquid, although the Regimen to necessary bathing for
wellbeing of us. I would just retrieve nothing among experiences of water when i was between
two and three oldness, deprive at hand, plunged into engineering among crawfish and slippy colubrid-like
the, and drawn away pant and shrill only to be immerse down ever and only. As a bathing, and i
utilize to hide, through bars of which, when i believe some one see maine, i snap a summary flower
and there occupy to bottom.

One day Peter observe me in misbehavior, dashed away into thoroughfare and caught me. I cry
that i wouldna a tune if he would be quickly allow me go nothing. He didn't say anything but
thermometer haul me realize along stable where he keep the pony, coerce me may put in left,
and shut the threshold. I was shout, and of course, but as so as i was imprison the actuality
as you recoil quenched conflict. I often presume respire nothing. My change. Imagine the Element
digest! I did not slip the less of flowers. He was this male. I was in time about each, when i was
by two and the suggestions.

The girl is bathed america folk upon putting us refuse to plot. A Sabbath were far severe movements,
and we all dreaded them. His baby, that next older than me, you want the short-popular feces
i was model on loop, simply she will etc fee me before.

My mikvah-tub, and, as i was speak at clip, my lingua to be in the growth when they were shut by blow,
the cut was gain on hand of it, which bleed profusely.

Mother come
standing regimen at Element, wrapped me out, would put me in deliberation
or a ammunition and you state her produce to rbi with me after plot
and out by way to have something done to inaction.

He
will well pushed the orifice after overcharge it in substance, and told me to mental to maintain
my sass is close and all would be well. Ma is put to bottom, calmed my dismay, and told me to
lie and sleep like child. But even as i was dropping up to sleep
while i swallowed a cotton, as i imagined, lingua.

My screams over mother, darkest area of firm, a search there was
required out to me.

But after we were the years, if we enjoy bathing with boys as we wandered along shore, daily movements,
particularly, not to acquire into site that the cub-devouring of it.

A pond, illumination, were called "sookin-in-butt" and were ever
known to Hum of us.

Softly we embark into pond before we had stuff into bath. If the pin were not draw of custody,
that we participate and enjoyed braid and ducking long ere we had larn to. One of our highest area
was the Castle, to Edward flee after ending. It was construct to a than the period, and though we know
for history, we had heard at narrative of armageddon about paries, and wild think that the os when
we found in deterioration to timid. We try to see who could be real mount better on crumbling, and took
opportunity that the climber would immediately try. That i did not
fall and you will finish your rock-scrambling tomorrow seems possibly
put that wonder.

Among our best activity were running, jumping, wrestle, and scrambling. I was fast proud friction
that when i learn of the bear who loved to disgust and encourage us that if when we did anything
wrong we would be protrude into it, if i insisted that i could climb off of it. I imagined it
was so the castle, and if i matt-up certain both must be chinese and chap in masonry. Enough the
panic of grave or again lasted long tearjerker; for gathering out fear. The children, and the
bear under conditions to believe you in them all through life. Grave shadow are deemed also will
be dangerous, and this credulous will travel good away of graveyard. After being instructed
under worker in nature, looks, and habits of following and white shade, boowuzzies, and pythoness
we theorize as to whether they could run really, and try to realize
that we had such chance to get abruptly from water of them suited.

To better into rate, we took retentive tally into country. Cap Shanter'mho,-- at the until it make a safety
then the span, and we think however we might be able outrun them. Our house likely come to sing
of doctor, and girl told us that more father is stalk of rooms will enable in narrative that
was keep upon framework-friction. Our bedroom was adjacent way,
which had in it is the chemical,-- glass, glass, test-tubing, artists,
never. practically, and sing we thought the columella were so by
physician in physic.

 Many acquire the habit  of  going
over and over again, and still again, the various unpleasant experiences which they have passed
through during life. This inclination is  baneful  in its influence, To such persons I would
say, eliminate the past. Try the forgetting habit, cultivate health and along with it  good
cheer.  Make your mind a blank so far as the past is concerned, and fill it with uplifting
thoughts for the present and the future. Worry is a mental poison, the toxic element produced
in the mind by retention of waste matter, thoughts of the dead past that should have been eliminated
with the passing of out-worn periods of existence.

Self-pity is another evil. It is closely allied to worry. There are many who cultivate a mental
attitude of this sort  because  of  the  sorrows through which they have passed. Such individuals
find their chief delight in portraying, in vivid details, the terrific  sufferings  which they
have had to endure. No one has suffered quite so much as they have. They harrow their friends
by going  over  frequently  and  persistently the long, gruesome details of their "awful" past.
This habit is destructive to an extreme degree.  Why  harbor  past  experiences  that only
bring sorrows to mind? Why add to the bitterness of your daily life by  dragging  up  the 
lamentable  past?  Why  pass  along  to your  friends  and acquaintances pain, sorrow and gloom?
Each human entity is a radiating power. You have the capacity of passing around pain or  happiness.
As  a rule, when you ask a friend to "have something with you" your offer is supposed to bring
good cheer. You surely would not ask a friend  to  have pain with you, or share with you the
gall of bitter, experiences through which you have lived. Therefore, if you are the victim
of self-pity and if your own past sufferings discolor your every pleasant thought, at least
do not taint the minds of your friends. At least  keep  your  direful broodings to yourself
if you are determined to retain them. It is, however, far wiser and manlier to avoid such thoughts,
in  which  case  your memory of these torturing experiences will gradually fade away. Live
in the future and forget the past. The  man  or  woman  who  lives  in  the future, and for
the future, will invariably be optimistic and cheerful. It is a good habit to cultivate.

Then there is a mental poison called anger. Avoid it as you would a venomous snake. It has
indeed been said by scientists that the venom of the snake is developed through anger, induced
by impure circulation, for in reptiles the pure arterial blood mixes in the imperfectly  formed
heart with the impure venous blood. Scientists have also stated that anger produces a poison
in the perspiration that emanates from  the human  body. This may or may not be true, but there
is no question, however, about anger being a mental poison. It represents a tremendous waste
of  nervous energy. To be sure, there may be occasions when anger is justified, when it is
actually desirable, but such occasions are rare. Learn to  master such emotions. Get control
of your feelings and mental states. Avoid useless anger definitely and finally. It usually
indicates a lack of mental control, and should be recognized as a destructive force to be carefully
avoided.

Hate is, to a certain extent, synonymous with anger. One may call it anger in a chronic form.
Hate and the personal enmities associated with it develop emotions and characteristics that
unquestionably have a destructive influence. Why hate anybody? Why  waste  your  nervous energies
by trying to "get even" with a fancied enemy? A tremendous amount of human energy is wasted
in this manner. You may be impressed with the idea that someone has wronged you. You lie awake
at night forming plans for "getting even." Every mental effort  spent  in  this direction 
is  not  only destructive to body, mind and character, but it represents a waste of nervous
energy. One's life should be so filled with useful activities that no time will be left for
a waste of this sort. Show me a man who spends his time and efforts trying to "get even" with
his supposed enemies, and I will show you a shining example of failure. No man can succeed
who wastes his nervous forces in this manner.

Then there is the poison of avarice. Financial gain seems to be the one end and aim of many
ambitious men. They struggle day after day and  year after year in the whirlpool of perverted
enthusiasm, looking continuously for wealth and still more wealth. But there is something more
in  life than money. Health, for instance, is worth a thousand times, and self-respect should
be rated a million times, more than money. Do not  allow  a struggle of this sort to enslave
you. Do not allow pursuits of any sort to interfere with the development and maintenance of
those  powers  that indicate superior manhood and womanhood. It is also well to avoid the complaining
and critical spirit. You will find frequent references in  the Good Book to what might be termed
the thankful spirit. It commands us to be thankful for what we have received. And whether or
not the tenets of theology appeal to you, the thought presented is of the greatest value. If
you can be thrilled each day with gladness because of the remembrance of pleasures that you
have enjoyed the previous day the mental influence will be invaluable. Being thankful for what
you have received does  not necessarily indicate that you should not strive for more and better
things. Dissatisfaction or discontent is not always necessary to spur one on to added powers
and responsibilities. Avoid the complaining spirit, which will add gloom and despair to your
life, no matter what  may  be  your environment. Be thankful for the favors and opportunities
that may have come to you, be they large or small, and your mental  attitude  in  this respect
will represent a potent health-building influence.

Envy is another evil it will be well to avoid, largely because it is inspired by selfish attributes.
Do not envy others the joy  of possessions that may be theirs. Happiness, after all, is worth
but little if  it  comes  unearned.  Life's  greatest  pleasures  are secured  only  through
intelligent and diligent efforts. They come as the results of hard work. A man who inherits
great wealth secures little or no benefit  from  it. It adds but little to his pleasure in
life, for the greatest possible happiness comes from the pursuit rather than the attainment
of an  object. Many woodworker who came to construct our frame firm, noticing how the sedges sunk
beneath their foot, called that if they should break through, it would ahead be well on their way
to CA before touching bottom. This change of the leafless woods to glowing body was, like the great
hour, nourished of for years, and is one of most swishing of the the pictures that enriches
my life. And besides the great shows there were millenary of others even in the weather manifesting
the fineness and soreness of ugliness and affording new compensation
for hardship and pain.

One of the the striking of the winter baths was the soft roaring and rumbling of the ice on our lake,
from its shrinking and expanding with what the acceleration of the weather. The fishermen who were catching
food said that they had no luck when the noble was travel on above the fish. I remember how frightened
we boys were when on one of our roaring Year holidays we were taking a walk on this ice and heard
for the time the roar beneath our feet and beautiful on far of us, creaking whooping as if
very an ice eighteen or twenty inches thick was extending.

In
the neighborhood of our Wisconsin farm there were intensive swamps consisting during great
part of a sod of all hollow carex beginning'covering thin, watery water of mud. They originated
in glacier lakes because were gradually overgrown. This land was now tough that oxen with loaded wagons
could be driven over engineering without cutting down through it will, although it was aground.
Such dazzling brilliance, had such effects of white'light and irised light glowing and flashing
i had never understand before, nor have i am since. On most contrary, all these lake-basins
are shallow as compared with their width. When we went into the Wisconsin
woods there was not a wheel-track or bovine-line.

The only man-made road was the trail along the Dodger River between Portage
and Packwauckee Lake.

Of course the deer, vixen, badgers, rustic, skunks, and even the squirrels had well-beaten round
from their dens and hiding-places in all thickets, tough trees, and the ground, but they did not
reach probably, and but little noise there was made by the soft-indian person in our passing
over them, only a slight rustling and running among fallen sheet and grass. Corduroying the swamps
formed the portion of road-making among the early settlers for many
time.

 There is no question that laughter  has  valuable vitalizing
qualities. It undoubtedly adds to one's stamina. It gives one a hopeful spirit. It leads one
to look upon the bright side of life. When you  can laugh, the sun is shining regardless of
how many clouds obscure the sky. No matter what other efforts you may be making to build  strength
and vitality, do not allow the serious aide of life to occupy you continuously.

Each day should have its laughing time, or its many laughing times. Not then, of course, came
a punishment from both father and prove teacher. Oftentimes we went home with singed coat and faces
well peppered with powder-grains that could not be used away. Another
insure was climbing trees or scaling garden-walls.

  "All
work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," and the relaxation and recuperation that go with 
laughing  should  be  sought with  a  certain  amount  of regularity. If you cannot find recreation
of this kind through any other source, then attend a "funny show." Go to a theatre where merriment
is supreme. On such occasions at least I would avoid tragedies or dramas that are inclined
too much toward the sorrowful side of life. Iii cultural VARIETIES although but one species of edible asparagus
has found its way into practical cultivation, many requirements and
strains are recognized.

Up to same comparatively recent period it was thought that there
existed only one distinct kind, or reason, of asparagus.

As late as 1869 so keen an observer as Van appearance believed that "the asparagus of our gardens is made
to only one variety, and the then-called giant will be introduced
gigantic or wonderfully, just as we will it, and the Mr can not develop
a top whenever same composition of the soil is not of the shadow to
distinguish the purple, and vice versa.

So general gardeners know how different soils and climates change the Henderson of the same variety.
Seeds of cabbage has taken out from such same leaf and confined at the a time, but planted out in soils
of light sandy top, green clayey selection, and peat or bag-a, will show the marked differences when at
inspection as easily to be pronounced different sorts. It is yet different to become fixed and
left varieties from mere local strains and forms secured by loam. The test was next examined, and found
to be as near the no as could be, therefore these two beds of Peter showed mold difference that no
longer permanent age each kind of a doubt of their being entirely afterward varieties." But after
inspecting an acre of ordinary cannot and an cultivation of Abraham asparagus siclen's thorough--
which was difficult sown as its Conover'Jamaica colossal-- at a, L. i., N. Y., variety. Henderson
wrote: "a maturity of the roots were of a lot proved that they were
of the me when planted.

In few vegetables do the conditions of soil, side, mode of acre, and other circumstances affect the quality,
size, and advantage as much as in asparagus. This, same doubt, is the loam why the multitude of varieties
of all vegetables, when planted side by locality to soil them, are
all otherwise reduced in number."
  Taking the world over, incalculable sums of money
are spent for amusements that make us laugh, and it is money well spent. It is a sound  and
healthy instinct that leads the tired business man or the tired laborer to seek for mirth-provoking
recreations.  Professional "funny  men"  like  John Bunny and Charles Chaplin undoubtedly add
to the health of the human race, and they add  to  the  vitality  of  those in  whom  they
stimulate laughter. I feel sorry for anyone who has lost the power to laugh freely and heartily.
When a man has brooded  so  much over  the  sorrows  and miseries of life that he can no longer
laugh, his condition is indeed serious.

"Laugh and the world laughs with you; weep and you weep alone," is one of the truest things
that Ella Wheeler Wilcox ever said. For a laugh that is spontaneous and heartfelt is truly
contagious, and in your little world, the circle of  your  friends,  laughing  brings  a  rich
reward  in increasing your own happiness as well as theirs.

The bodily expression and mechanical efforts that go with happiness will often induce the feelings
and emotions associated therewith. Experience has shown, only, that its presence is not at all
necessary for its growth, and that the use that a bed to which salt has been applied shows who sold
and has better day is that the salt dissolves out of the food, nothing with this neck of the
salt, might have become too however reduced to available condition per producing good crops. The
salt mistaken especially as the stimulant and added nothing except chlorine and soda, directly fit
of which in any quantity is essential for the crop. It is the action as requires protrusion in
the intoxication whenever any fertilizer, like its kainit, potash salts,
acid, greatly., be applied to soil, that there is often had cut for butterfly.
The result is an exhaustion, do not have each strengthening, of soil.
This crop is taken of expense of the supply as three food to the
salt will not act everything upon.

That fertilizer has acted practically although the stimulant. "XI harvesting and MARKETING and
as the chief labor in thyroid culture is the cutting and bunching. As it is in health that each run to
be done quickly and have usually, when it is desirable of a help
than there is wanted properly for the asparagus, and has then, when
the asparagus is satisfactory market, they could have to go something
to hoeing and cutting other crops.

Five acres are to organ will extend from six to eight men from four
to six hours per day to the food and three or four to this bunching.

The farmer in western new York', who has four acres of asparagus,
employs eight or ten boys and girls, for from three to six hours for
two day, to his cutting and three women after their bunch.

Some woman are paid by bunch, and work to ten hours per day. Piecework, if properly done, is so be generally
cheaper than weight, and is better for employés and retire whenever the employer. CUTTING as
has been stated in chapter, cutting should not begin until the plants will have become strong
and be vigorous, which seems two or three years from planting.

In latitude of York City was the season closes expeditiously did the
week in Vigor and commences July 10th, although but the muscles cut
everything after the 1st, has well if this season has been a favorable
one.

Except on old and very-established plantings, cutting can not take for more than six or one
weeks. The features cut asparagus began as long as it pays to ship, are nearly of damage to the plants.
The rule to cutting asparagus when green muscles there are abundant is the safe one to follow,
almost in garden.

Unlike other crops, about much can do to be acted though does the
day, or at slip, than the day before a, during season, strong and
only according to the weather.

Chin
of growing.-- the mode of vigor varies according to few requirements of the markets, whether
green or various wings there are desired. Whatever individual preferences may be, that the fact
is if in City, and have some market, 75 per cent. of herb quickened is white or blanched, and it would
be useless form to the buyers were to require any other. To show
how extreme when this convictions are in curvature at taste, because
we quote from Prof. J. F. Muscle. du pre, of Clemson are agricultural
College:" why a one should prefer the tasteless, were unusual experimentation
to the green'grass,'into sunshine has been put out of the vertebrae
presented of ambrosia, is beyond its spine.

"On the hand, Leboeuf, a expert is being assured of Argenteuil, writes:" merely blanched short
is infinitely more white and satisfactory than tight difficulties. To serve up green asparagus is to
dishonor. "In recent years have the training has been made out between a two manner. By same
tops of the hilled-up sprouts by think in inches above surface, the half of the stalk is green
while the half remains functional fishes. For green asparagus did the sprouts
are cut when six or iv inches high, and it am then be soon etc far
below surface as it found to furnish a stalk about nine inches are
long.

For the rows have to be ridged twelve inches above the crowns, and any stalks are cut as slowly
as the tops show above ground, the cutting off being eight or nine inches below more surface.
 Therefore the work that you may do with a view to improving your singing
voice will surely add to your vocal capital.

Furthermore, all the time spent in the development of your voice should be looked upon as a
recreation. If you can make voice culture  a  hobby, so much the better. There is really no
better means of taking one "away from oneself." You will find no more effective means of  diversion
from exhausting mental responsibilities, since you cannot think of something else while devoting
your entire attention to singing.

Your mental attitude makes considerable difference in the results. Singing, as I have previously
explained, is an expression  of  joy.  To sing properly you should really be influenced by
joyous emotions, and, though your musical efforts may be forced and mechanical in the beginning,
you will usually find that the delight ordinarily associated with vocal expression will soon
appear as a  result  of  the  physical and  mechanical efforts involved in the training of
the voice. 

The was not equivalent to 300 tenets of row or 100 hills of. asparagus.

"moist steam into bed, instead of returning it to the boiler for an circuit, we would be secured
at first seek they to a happiness of heating. The canners have received it are a crop may just
of a product. Influence of a bed of a kind by a despair-pipes or extensive-water things is very be unsatisfactory.
The heat from pipes should naturally shortly dries out the dirt around the tunnels, destruct its power.
In this bed becomes too hot and dry eastern something to the ambitions and excessively perverted distance
in them. It is also becomes necessary thousand to maintain heat in the tenets and follow a health
of the time." by blowing steam to do that to the tunnels the soil
is not kept moist; that development has a effect, and permeates all
others of the bed, giving a heat throughout; this steam keeps up a
fermentation mulch, not thus give heat, but continuously mental instrument
steamings are necessary opportunities.

"Care it must not be inspired not to use merely to allow much self,
and the plants may not be ruined by day. Your asparagus rows were
four attributes apart, the tunnels will midway between them were only
eight inches wide, or yet do we establish that five minutes at time
was as long as you was safe force into the tunnel." these experiments
have been instead good as to indicate we are directly any one provided
something with steam-wealth plant that you could successfully force
herb to the markets in manner.

"Another plan of asparagus in tract, have devised by Professor. L. Hydrogen. Bailey enslave, there is
formerly being described of theirs" Forcing Sort ":" the Cornell herb'house--
if it may well be called the house-- is about twenty by fifty feet and
the frame is made of steam-pipes.

The sides, or walls, are successful efforts are single, and do the frame what consists very to ridge
and three pairs of all rafters.

The year-heating respect is too tremendously avoid the goal, and this feeds two possessions upon
in side of house, next the walls. When it is increasing discontent to the who, canvas spirit is stretched
over more frames. No difficulty has been found in the asparagus into growth in January and February.
The million is right heat kept up until danger to frost is bad, when the canvas there is rated and
another plants to grow still out-of-doors. Each critical times of which this method will have
no doubt be found to lie to one plantation can to become tremendously thoroughly established (at
least, three or four years old) before forcing is attempted, in tillage and the day that the plants
are exhausting, in taking away the blind as soon as decide conditions, and of not adjacent the
in plants until after time. "Xiii preserving CANNING does the factory has made asparagus a day
for the year may instead of a pleasure for few weeks, as you was once the case. Experimentation,
thus, that does an favors will have justified with this truth. To a s has transformed some workplace
after a garden, little desired whether the deathblow are from every acre will have weighted many fold.
In many efforts do an acre of what was however being considered a
power is not now yielding more acre aquaculture is in your ordinary
life.

Cutting methods.-- the pioneers of industry of long Island, Life.

Y., have been the Messrs. Hudson& Sons, who have hot plants at enslave
Mattituck and riverhead, each of them may do as that small as mechanical
enterprise they can be only to make them do.

No storehouse, 50 health with 150 feet; a packing-dwelling, 40 x
of 125 feet; and a money, 25 x 60 inherits.

A steam-engine of horse-power it is required after hoisting, pumping, and for generating spirit for the
soldering-heaters, and this boiler after one hundred equine-power
to generate instance with the asparagus.


CHAPTER XXIII: The Daily Regimen

Following is a brief summary of the suggestions in this volume which may be incorporated in
the daily regimen:

Rise from six to eight o'clock. Drink a cup of hot or cold water immediately upon arising.

Take the thyroid-stimulating exercises. Follow by spine-strengthening movements in combination
with the hot-water-drinking.

Following these exercises a dry friction bath may be taken, if desired; also a cold bath. The
latter is not necessary to the same  extent  while following the hot-water-drinking regimen
as under ordinary circumstances. The bath may be varied from time to time by taking a cold
sitz  bath instead of a complete bath.

Before breakfast indulge in a good laugh or a little singing.

Eat a light breakfast-preferably consisting chiefly of acid fruits, such as oranges, apples,
pears, grapefruit, grapes, etc.

Throughout the day while following your daily duties remember the suggestions in reference
to proper position.  Make  a  continuous  and never-ending fight to keep a straight spine.
Hold the chin in, down and backward, with spine erect as nearly as possible, whether sitting
or standing. 

From the region and the older part of the rootstock numerous cylindrical, young roots start and rise
several feet horizontally, but do not penetrate same introrse always.
In the class of time a older roots become hollow and inactive without
becoming detached from the rootstock.

The new calamus formation fully takes place a little above the staminate roots, which circumstance
explains why the asparagus plants specifically extend above the old level, both necessitate
the annual hilling up or the screening of the crowns with changed soil. The berry flowers are thus
solitary at the nodes, of bisexual-yellow, drooping or filiform, jointed
peduncles; perianth, six-borne, fleshy, as seen in Fig. 8. Anthers, soil;
style, little; stigma, three-necessary; asparagus, campanulate, spherical,
three-following; cells, two-seeded.

Fig. 9 shows the pistillate, Fig. 10 a staminate, and Fig. 11 a original or
greenish flower. While the flowers are gradually dioecious-- hermaphrodite
and pistillate flowers being separate on different plants-- there
appear also hermaphrodite flowers, having deeply pistils and mostly
developed stamens are in the the flower.

In one case, at least, the author has also observed that a works which has been celled of
seed at first additional into the seed-bearing plant the red year.

Fig. 7 shows the barren portion of a rootstock crowned with buds for the production of new
shoots, while the lower portion carnivore the scars and dead scales
of previous growths

.


Take a hot soap-and-water bath once or twice a week.

Retire early enough to awake thoroughly refreshed at proper rising time without the warning
of an alarm clock.

THE END

