We at once went into corral. Thirty men against a horde of savages, if they were there to dispute
our right of progress, was not a pleasant position to be placed in nor a fitting manner in
which to celebrate the glorious Fourth. Consultations were numerous and all took part. The
redskins, camped in plain sight, were hurrying to and fro, evidently in council like ourselves.
To the right of the trail was a dense wood close to the river bank; on the left was a high
perpendicular bluff, its sides unscalable, so our route was a genuine death trap, should they
attack us. After grub all gathered in a circle and with pipes we proceeded with our last council.
The situation was talked over from every point as to what the Indians might do or might not
do. We finally arrived to the conclusion that they had the best of us whatever move we made.
A majority vote decided to proceed with every man for himself in case of attack. Our wagons
were empty which was a little in our favor as we could go on a mule trot or gallop. The coach
filled with passengers was placed in the lead; and, being the youngest of the party, they were
considerate enough to let me follow, and I did so as closely as possible. On reaching the river
bottom, the driver of the coach started his horses on a run and the lash was put to every mule.
We were all yelling like demons and on our approach the Indians left the trail and took to
the river, thinking that we were a hundred or more strong. All passed safely through that valley
of what might have been a horrible massacre. The unearthly racket we made was undoubtedly our
salvation, but we were not out of danger by any means and continued our flight until eleven
P. M. when we went into corral for food and rest. At three A. M. we again struck the trail
and it is well that we did, for those blood-thirsty redskins laid death and destruction in
their wake and came very near overtaking us a day later. Arriving at Leavenworth, I boarded
a Missouri River palace for St. Louis, thence to New Orleans.

A FALSE FRIEND

On returning to St. Louis, I met a Westerner that I knew only by sight, and by him was induced
to remain over a few days and take in the city. I did and was scooped. On the third morning
I went through my pockets and the bed, piece by piece, dumping its contents in the center of
the room, but my roll was gone. At once I sought my friend, but he was nowhere to be found.
Plain case of misplaced confidence. He had made a touch. In my desperation, I made a confident
of the caretaker of the hotel register. Being of a sympathetic nature, he consoled me with
an invitation to stimulate, which I did. Being without a trunk, I was informed on my arrival
it was customary to pay as you enter; fortunately I had a meal to my credit. I was in good
condition, having had sufficient victuals to last the day, after which I proceeded to the river
front and here discovered a boat bound for Omaha. I boarded her, sought out the steward, and
applied for a position. He replied that he did not want any help.

"Well, I suppose you will let a fellow work his way, won't you?"

His answer was "Get off this craft," and without further talk, in not a very gentlemanly manner
he assisted me.

On landing, I was mad clear through, and made up my mind I was going on that boat, and I did
go. Just before the gang plank was pulled in I walked on board, keeping a sharp lookout for
the steward. After I had avoided him for an hour and just as I was on the point of congratulating
myself, I bumped into him.

"You on board?"

"It looks very much as if I were in evidence."

He grabbed me by the coat collar and hustled me before the captain. I told a straight story,
and he, being a man, told the steward to take me up to the kitchen and set me to work. He did,
and had his revenge in seeing that it was nearly continuous. After supper I worked the dish
racket until twelve o'clock. At three the next morning he awoke me out of a sound sleep and
set me to cleaning the woodwork of the cabin. Another of my desirable duties was to wash and
polish the silver, throwing the water over the sides of the boat.

AN ALERT STEWARD

After dinner of the second day I proceeded with the tin bucket to the side of the boat and
overboard went its contents, including three silver spoons. The spoons had no sooner left the
bucket than I felt something of great force come in contact with the seat of my trousers. For
a moment I thought surely perpetual motion had been discovered. Turning I was face to face
with that infernal steward. Nor did that end my troubles for during the entire trip that particular
locality of my person was the target for that fellow's boot. With a terrible oath, he informed
me that my landing would be reached about midnight a day later and was called Wood Pile Landing.
A short time before reaching the place, I was hustled from my bunk by the steward and in no
gentle manner forced to the bow of the boat. The night was pitch dark, and produced a decidedly
lonesome feeling in the one that was to be put off at a Wood Pile on the edge of an immense
forest and undoubtedly miles from a dwelling. As the boat reached the bank, not even waiting
for the gang plank to be shoved out, the old sinner gave me a push and at the same time applied
the now familiar boot. I reached the earth on all fours. My first thought was to present him
with a rock, but I curbed my temper, for I had no idea of deserting the old ship.

In those days the boilers of the boats were fired with cord wood purchased of the planters
and delivered on the bank of the river. All boats plying on the Missouri River at that time
were flat bottom with paddle wheel at the stern. Two long heavy poles were carried at the bow
and worked with a windlass, being used to raise the bow of the boat when becoming fast on a
sand bar. The pilot was obliged to keep a continuous lookout for these bars, as the channel
was treacherous and changed often.

On approaching the river bank one of the deck hands would jump off with the bow line and make
fast to a stump or tree, then the stern line was thrown to him and similarly connected. Then
the negro deck hands would proceed to carry on the wood on their bare shoulders to the tune
of a Southern plantation melody. When ready to start the bow line was cast off, the paddle
wheel was started by the engine, and by means of the steering gear the craft was swung out
into the stream, then the stern line was thrown aship, and the boat was off--but not without
the steward's victim. No sooner had the colored gentlemen reached the deck, than I followed.
Waiting until all was quiet aboard, I sought my berth. The next morning I proceeded with my
work as if nothing had happened. I anticipated the steward's next move would be to throw me
overboard, and in that belief told the cook of what he had done the previous night. At that
point he came in, and on discovering me said, "You here again," his face purple with rage.
His right foot at once became restless, he made a rush for me, but the cook with butcher-knife
in hand prevented the action of said foot, and my troubles with that gentleman were over.

ARRIVAL AT LEAVENWORTH

We soon reached Leavenworth, and I left the boat without regret, but a much wiser youth. I
went to the First National Bank of Leavenworth, drew my money, and after a few days' rest,
I again embarked for Denver astride a mule. We saw plenty of Indians, but as the train was
a long one they did not molest us.

On reaching the city of the plains I at once hunted up my old friend, the Major, who introduced
me to the head of a firm of contractors, who were at that time engaged in getting out ties
in the "Black Hills," for a portion of the Union Pacific railroad, then under construction.
He told me that he wanted a man to go there and straighten out a set of books that a former
employee had left badly mixed. He also took the trouble to inform me that the country was alive
with Indians, and that the man who went there took big chances; and, if I were at all timid,
I had better not accept the position. My friend gave me a strong recommend and I clinched the
matter by telling the gentleman that I was not afraid of man, ghost or Indian. He replied that
I was just the man he was in search of, and would give me five hundred dollars in gold, a good
horse and pay all expenses; that I should get my traps and be at the Planter's Hotel for dinner.

He expected his two partners from the east to inspect the camp and business, and everything
was to be in readiness to depart on their arrival. Our conveyance was a full sized Concord
coach with six good mules to draw it. The boot of the coach contained the best of everything
to eat and drink--the latter being just as essential in that country as gun and ammunition.
The partners were detained en route, and did not arrive until the second day, when they wished
to rest and see the western sights, so we did not leave until the fourth day. Two Denverites
accompanied us, making six in the party.

The first afternoon we made thirty-two miles, and camped near a stage station, where they keep,
for the weary pilgrims, supplies and the rankest kind of corn juice known to the professional
drinker.

The following morning we made an early start, and before noon rolled into La Port, on the Cachella
Pondre River, the only settlement on the trail to the hills. We put up at the stage station
for the night. There we met a drover, and a party of cow boys with one thousand head of California
bronchos bound for the States. Those cowboys were as wild as western life could make them,
yet, a jolly good lot.

During the evening, at the suggestion of someone, a poker game was started which lasted all
night, and in the morning those who had indulged in the game were not feeling any too good--especially
the losers--but, nevertheless, they all strolled over to the large adobe corral to see our
party off. Mr. A----, the head of the firm of contractors, had his large winnings safely concealed
in a chamois bag placed close to his hide, where all wise men of the West carried their money
in those days.

The drover had been a heavy but good loser. When about ready to hitch up our mules he called
out to Mr. A----, "I'll go you six of my best bronchos against five hundred dollars that you
haven't a man in your outfit that can drive the d----d brutes a mile and return."

The contractor approached me and asked if I thought I could do it. I told him that I was willing
to take the chance.

Without another word he walked over to where the drover was standing and informed him that
he would take the bet, provided he would have his cowpunchers hitch the little devils to the coach.

"Agreed," shouted the old fellow in no uncertain language.

The boys turned to the work with a will; for the fun expected, even if I received a broken
neck for my daredevil recklessness, excited them to the highest pitch.

The reader has undoubtedly seen in the Wild West circuses the old-fashioned overland coach
hung by heavy springs from front to rear axle. One of the most uncomfortable conveyances to
ride in ever invented, especially for the driver, for, if the coach was not heavily loaded,
when the front wheels dropped into a hole the old ramshackle thing was liable to topple over
on the animals; and, if the driver was not securely strapped to the seat when the rear wheels
reached the hole, he would land some distance in the rear. The contractor had the old ark properly
balanced before starting, so I had no excuse to worry from that source.

The cowpunchers selected one broncho each and after a half hour's hawling, pulling and coaxing
succeeded in hitching them to the coach. I climbed to the seat and was securely strapped with
a large leather apron. Then I gathered up the lines and placed myself solidly for the start.

The whip socket contained a hickory stick five feet long with a lash twelve feet in length
attached to one end. I gave the word to let them go, but the little bronchos thought different
and balked. The number of times they bucked and threw themselves, started and bucked again,
would be impossible to say. Finally the contractor accused the drover of being in collusion
with his cowpuncher in order to win the wager by holding the bronchos back and a volley of
words of not very mild character ensued, after which the six cowboys, three on either side
of the team, stood off six feet. The noise made by the cracking of their whips their everlasting
yelping made the excitement stronger than before, and I was off on the wildest ride I ever
took. A hurdle jumper would not stand much of a chance with one of those wild bronchos.

A DANGEROUS RIDE

It was a lovely June morning and the bracing air of Colorado made me feel as wild as the young
animals that were fast wheeling me over the dangerous trail and possibly into a camp of hostile
Indians. I gave no thought to danger for I was too busy keeping the fiery little beasts to
the trail. They were going at breakneck speed with no sign of tiring, so I let them go enjoying
the sport even more than they. My hat went flying with the wind, I looked back, but could not
see the ranch. How far I had left it behind, or what distance I had covered, I knew not.

At last I came to myself and realized for the first time what terrible danger I was in. Slowly
turning the team to the right, I began a circle, hardly perceptible at first, but finally again
reaching the trail. On the return trip, I plied the long lash to the leading pair. They shot
forward faster than ever, all steaming with foam and covered with lather. At a great distance
to the south I could see a party of Indians riding in the same direction. This additional danger
seemed fairly to intoxicate me and I plied the whip with all my strength. The corral loomed
up and then the stage station. The others, with hands in their pockets and mouth agap, were
holding their breath; and, as we wheeled past them, the cowboys lashing the bronchos, a mighty
shout went up. I had won the wager and was the lion of the day.

We did not make a start until the following morning. We fastened the bronchos together and
tied the leader to the rear of the coach, and thus resumed our journey to the hills, where
we safely arrived two days later, but minus four of the treacherous brutes. At night we always
picketed them with the mules and the four that were lost had pulled their picket irons and
undoubtedly gone to join the much read of "wild horses of the plains."

The camp in the hills consisted of shanties for fifteen hundred men, saw mill, and outfit store.
The latter included in its stock plenty of the best kind of liquor. Each man was allowed three
drinks a day and no more.

I had the books straightened out in due time and one day the contractor discovered he would
soon be out of flour, and the nearest point at which it could be purchased was La Port, seventy-five
miles distant. The Indians were troublesome, and each man who was asked refused to go, with
one exception. The contractor finally made me a tempting offer to accompany a driver of a six
mule team. I accepted, and at break of day the next morning we started. My companion on that
dangerous trip was a plucky son of the Emerald Isle. We camped that night on Lodge Pole Creek.
On the opposite side was an adobe ranch, and an immense stockade owned by a Frenchman with
a Sioux squaw for a wife.

In our hurried start we had forgotten our tobacco, and without it my companion seemed lost.
After grub I mounted my horse, and crossed over the creek to procure some. On making my wants
known, I was freely supplied with tobacco, and was also informed that before we arrived they
had been fighting the Indians for some time; that one of the cowboys had an arm badly shattered;
and that they feared another attack the next morning. I returned to camp and told my companion
of our danger.

A WELCOME HAVEN

After giving the animals plenty of feed and rest, we again took the trail at 4:30 A. M. As
the day dawned, with the aid of a field glass, I discovered Indians swooping down on the ranch
with the stockade at breakneck speed, and others coming in our direction. I told Patrick to
urge the mules to a gallop. He suspected the cause and did so at once. Over the rolling ground
we flew until the sun was well up in the heavens, and as each hour passed the redskins gained
on us, until at last they could be seen with the naked eye. The harsh and cruel war-whoop of
those blood-thirsty savages echoed and re-echoed back from the distant hills, and over the
desolate plains until men and beasts were crazed to desperation. The lash was put to the already
tired mules, and we strained every nerve to reach the crest of the next knoll, hoping against
hope for succor. On they came, their warwhoops for scalps and the white man's blood was now
continuous. The long feared report of their rifles was at last heard; bullets pierced our canvas
covered wagon. We made a last desperate effort and reached the summit of the bluff. Not a half
a mile from its base was a large corral of white covered wagons. Down the incline we flew,
looking neither to the right nor the left, and, on reaching the corral, both men and beasts
fell into a heap exhausted.

The red devils rode to the top of the hill, and the warwhoop of anger they sent up rings in
my ears at times to this very day.

That evening we again took the trail and made the remainder of the trip by night drives. Reaching
La Port the third morning, we secured our load and after giving the animals a much needed rest
we started on the return trip. The fourth morning we arrived at the ranch with the stockade.
Three mornings after we reached the foot of the hills where the company had a log cabin for
their hunters and trappers, who, with their trusty rifles, furnished antelope, deer and buffalo
meat for their small army of employees. On entering, a sight met our gaze too revolting to
pass from memory. Upon the earthy floor lay two of those sturdy and warm-hearted dwellers of
the plains and rockies, cold in death, scalped and mutilated almost beyond recognition--a deed
committed by those dastardly red fiends of the Far West. Both were friends of mine and with
uncovered head, in the presence of that gritty son of old Ireland, I vowed vengeance.

"At least, Charlie," said Patrick, "Let's give them a decent burial and move on."

We did so, reaching camp that evening just as the sun, with its beautiful tints of carmine,
was bidding plains and hills goodnight, as if in memory of those stalwart and brave men who
made the settlement and civilization of the West possible.

CHAPTER VII

A PLUCKY GERMAN

 Two weeks later a strapping six-foot German, who was
in charge of another camp further down the line, came for a visit.
Shortly after his arrival, he proposed that we should go hunting, to
which I agreed.

