Meantime the news reached Lochiel of the total destruction of his house at Achnacarrie. Previously
to the demolition of the house, the family had buried or concealed many things in the earth.
The English soldiers, encamping round the smoking ruins, are said, on tradition, to have actually
boiled their kettles at the foot of each of a fine avenue of plane-trees. The avenue remains,
and fissures can still be traced running up the stem of each tree. Not a memorial of the House
of Achnacarrie remained. For this, and other acts of wanton barbarity, the pretext was that
the Camerons, as well as other tribes, had promised to surrender arms at a certain time, but
had broken their word. "His Royal Highness, the Duke of Cumberland," to borrow from a contemporary
writer, "began with the rebels in a gentle, paternal way, with soft admonitions, with a promise
of protection to all the common people that would bring in their arms, and submit to mercy."
Since, however, some equivocated, and others broke their word, the Duke was obliged to lay
"the rod on more heavy." Fire and sword were therefore carried through the country of the Camerons;
the cattle were driven away; even the cotter's hut escaped not: the homes of the poor were
laid in ashes: their sheep and pigs slaughtered: and the wretched inmates of the huts, flying
to the mountains, were found there, some expiring, some actually dead of hunger. The houses
of the clergy were crowded with the homeless and starving: whole districts were depopulated:
the Sabbath was outraged by acts of destruction, which wounded, in the nicest point, the feelings
of the religious mountaineer; and the goods of the rebels were publicly auctioned, without
any warrant of a civil court. During all these proceedings, the "jovial Duke," as he was called,
was making merry at Fort Augustus in a manner which, if possible, casts more odium on his memory
even than his atrocious and unpunished cruelties.[292]

Achnacarrie was razed to the ground. A modern structure, suitable in splendour to the truly
noble family who possess it, has arisen in its place; but no erection can restore the house
of Sir Ewan Dhu, and the home of his "gentle" grandson, Donald Cameron. As the plunderers ransacked
the house, they found a picture of Lochiel, and one which was accounted a good likeness. This
was given to the soldiers, who were dispatched over Corryarie in search of the wounded and
unfortunate original. On the top of that mountain the military encountered Macpherson of Urie,
who, being of a fair and pleasing aspect, was mistaken by them for Lochiel.

"Urie," writes Mrs. Grant, who had the story from himself, "was a Jacobite, and had been out,
as the phrase was then. The soldiers seized him, and assured him he was a d----d rebel, and
that his title was Lochiel. He, in turn, assured them that he was neither d----d, nor a rebel,
nor by any means Lochiel. When he understood, however, that they were in search of Lochiel,
and going in the very direction where he lay concealed, he gave them reason finally to suppose
he was the person they sought. They returned to Fort Augustus where the Duke of Cumberland
then lay, in great triumph with their prisoners; Urie, as he expected, from the indulgence
of some who were about the Duke, was very soon set at liberty."

This temporary captivity of Urie had, however, the effect of allowing Lochiel time to contrive
means of escape from the country. There was one, however, dear to him as his own life, whose
continuance in Scotland ensured that of Lochiel. This was Prince Charles, who evinced for Lochiel
a regard, and displayed a degree of confidence in his fidelity, which were amply merited by
the tried affection of the chieftain. For nearly three months Lochiel remained ignorant of
the fate of Charles, until the joyful tidings were brought of his being safe at Loch-Arkeg.
Lochiel was at Ben Aulder, a hill of great circumference in Badenoch, when he received this
intelligence from one of his tenants named Macpherson, who was sent by Cameron of Clunes to
find out Lochiel and Clunie, and to inform them that their young master was safe.

Upon the return of Macpherson to Cameron of Clunes, the Prince, being informed where Lochiel
was, sent Lochgarry and Dr. Archibald Cameron with a message to them. Since it was impossible
that Lochiel could go to the Prince on account of his wounds, it was agreed between Lochiel
and these friends, that Charles should take refuge near Achnacarrie, as the safest place for
him to pass some time; and Dr. Cameron and Lochgarry returned to Charles to impart the details
of this arrangement. The attachment of Charles to Lochiel was shown in a very forcible manner:
when he was informed that the chief was safe and recovering, he expressed the greatest satisfaction,
and fervently returned thanks to God. The ejaculation of praise and thanksgiving was reiterated
three or four times.

Charles now crossed Loch Arkeg, and took up his abode in a fir-wood on the west side of the
lake, to await the arrival of Clunie, who had promised to meet him there. The impatience of
the Prince to behold his friends Clunie and Lochiel was so great, that he set out for Badenoch
before Clunie could arrive.

Lochiel had, during the months of June and July, remained on Ben Aulder, under which name is
comprehended a great chase belonging to Clunie. His dwelling was a miserable shieling at Mellamir,
which contained him and his friend Macpherson of Breackachie, also his principal servant, Allan
Cameron, and two servants of Clunie. Here Clunie and Lochiel, who were cousins-german, were
chiefly supplied with provisions by Macpherson of Breackachie, who was married to a sister
of Clunie. The secret of their retreat was known to many persons; but the fidelity of the Highlanders
was such, that though the Earl of Loudon had a military post not many miles from Ben Aulder,
he had not the slightest knowledge of the place of Lochiel's concealment. The same high principle
which guarded Prince Charles in his wanderings, and resisted the temptation of a large reward,
protected Lochiel in his retirement.

In this retreat he was found by the Prince, who had missed Clunie, and had gradually made his
way through Badenoch to the Braes of Bannoch, accompanied by five persons. When Lochiel from
his hut beheld a party approaching, all armed, he concluded that a troop of militia were coming
to seize him. Lame as he was, it was in vain to think of retreating: he held a short conference
with his friends, and then resolved to receive the supposed assailants with a general discharge
of fire-arms. He had twelve firelocks and some small pistols in the botine or hut; these were
all made ready, the pieces levelled, and planted; and Lochiel and his friends trusted to getting
the better of the searchers, whose number did not exceed their own. Thus Charles Edward, after
the unparalleled dangers of his recent wanderings, ran a risk of being killed by one of his
most devoted adherents! "But," observes Clunie, in relating this circumstance, "the auspicious
hand of God, and his providence, so apparent at all times in the preservation of his Royal
Highness, prevented those within from firing at the Prince and his four attendants, for they
came at last so near that they were known by those within."[293]

It was, indeed, no difficult matter to discern in the person of Charles Edward the handsome
and princely youth who had presided over the Court at Holyrood. He had discarded the old black
kilt, philibeg, and waistcoat which he had worn at Loch Arkeg, for a coarse, brown, short coat:
a new article of dress, such as a pair of shoes and a new shirt, had lately replenished his
wardrobe. He had a long red beard, and wore a pistol and dirk by his side, carrying always
a gun in his hand. Yet "the young Italian," as the Whigs delighted to call him, had braved
the rigours of his fate, and thriven beneath the severities of the Scottish climate. His spirits
were good; his frame, originally slender, had become robust: he had fared in the rudest manner,
and had acquired the faculty of sleeping soundly, even with the dread of a surprise ever before
him.

Lochiel, on the other hand, was lame, and had suffered long from his close quarters, and from
anxiety and sorrow. Tradition has brought down to us the accounts of the chief's personal beauty.
Though fair, he was not effeminate; his countenance was regular and expressive. But those attributes
which completed the romance of Lochiel's character must have been almost obliterated during
these months of trial, infirm health, and uncured wounds. His spirit was not yet subdued. Eventually
that noble heart was broken by all that it had endured, but, at that epoch of his eventful
life, it still throbbed with hope.

When Lochiel perceived that it was Charles Edward who approached, he made the best of his way,
though lame, to receive his Prince. "The joy at this meeting," writes Clunie, "is much easier
to be conceived than described." Lochiel attempted to kneel. "Oh no, my dear Lochiel!" cried
the Prince; "we do not know who may be looking from the top of yonder hills; and if they see
any such motions, they will conclude that I am here." Lochiel then shewed him into his habitation,
and gave him the best welcome that he could: the Prince, followed by his retinue, among whom
were the two outlaws, or "broken men," who had succoured him, and whom he had retained in his
service, entered the hut.[294] A repast, almost amounting to a feast in the eyes of these fugitives,
was prepared for them, having been brought by young Breackachie. It consisted of a plentiful
supply of mutton; an anker of whiskey, containing twenty Scots' pints; some good beef sausages,
made the year before; with plenty of butter and cheese, besides a well-cured ham. The Prince
pledged his friends in a hearty dram, and frequently (perhaps, as the event showed, too frequently)
called for the same inspiring toast again. When some minced collops were dressed with butter,
in a large saucepan always carried about with them, by Clunie and Lochiel, Charles Edward,
partaking heartily of that incomparable dish, exclaimed, "Now, gentlemen, I live like a prince."
"Have you," he said to Lochiel, "always lived so well here?" "Yes, sir," replied the chief;
"for three months, since I have been here with my cousin Clunie, he has provided me so well,
that I have had plenty of such as you see. I thank Heaven your Highness has been spared to
take a part!"

