Man has no choice; he must be the slave of the most unscrupulous and insolent amongst slaves,
or else the servant of God, because for man there is only one way of being free--by uniting
his will with the will of God. People bereft of religion, some repudiating religion itself,
others recognizing as religion those external, monstrous forms which have superseded it, and
guided only by their personal lusts, fear, human laws, and, above all, by mutual hypnotism,
cannot cease to be animals or slaves, and no external efforts can extricate them from this
state; for only religion makes a man free. And most of the people of our time are deprived of it.

                                  VIII

"But, in order to abolish the evil from which we are suffering," those will say who are preoccupied
by various practical activities, "it would be necessary that not a few men only, but all men,
should bethink themselves, and that, having done so, they should uniformly understand the destination
of their lives, in the fulfilment of the will of God and in the service of one's neighbor.

"Is this possible?" Not only possible, do I answer, but it is impossible that this should not
take place. It is impossible for men not to bethink themselves--i.e. impossible that each man
should not put to himself the question as to who he is and wherefore he lives; for man, as
a rational being, cannot live without seeking to know why he lives, and he has always put to
himself this question, and always, according to the degree of his development, has answered
it in his religious teaching. In our time, the inner contradiction in which men feel themselves
elicits this question with special insistence, and demands an answer. It is impossible for
men of our time to answer this question otherwise than by recognizing the law of life in love
to men and in the service of them, this being for our time the only rational answer as to the
meaning of human life; and this answer nineteen hundred years ago has been expressed in the
Christian religion and is likewise known to the vast majority of all mankind.

This answer in a latent state lives in the consciousness of all men of the Christian world
of our time; but it does not openly express itself and serve as guidance for our life, only
because, on the one hand, those who enjoy the greatest authority, so-called scientists, being
under the coarse error that religion is a temporary and outgrown step in the development of
mankind and that men can live without religion, inculcate this error to those of the masses
who are beginning to be educated; and, on the other hand, because those in power, sometimes
consciously, but often unconsciously (being under the error that the Church faith is Christian
religion), endeavor to support and excite in the people crude superstitions given out as the
Christian religion. If only these two deceptions were to be destroyed, then true religion,
already latent in men of our time, would become evident and obligatory.

To bring this about it is necessary that, on the one hand, men of science should understand
that the principle of the brotherhood of all men and the rule of not doing unto others what
one does not wish for oneself is not one casual idea out of a multitude of human theories which
can be subordinated to any other considerations, but is an incontestable principle, standing
higher than the rest, and flowing from the changeless relation of man to that which is eternal,
to God, and is religion, all religion, and, therefore, always obligatory.

On the other hand, it is necessary that those who consciously or unconsciously preach crude
superstitions under the guise of Christianity should understand that all these dogmas, sacraments,
and rites which they support and preach are not only, as they think, harmless, but are in the
highest degree pernicious, concealing from men that central religious truth which is expressed
in the fulfilment of God's will, in the service of men, and that the rule of acting toward
others as one would wish others to act toward oneself is not merely one of the prescriptions
of the Christian religion, but is the whole of practical religion, as indeed is stated in the
Gospels.

To bring about that men of our time should uniformly place before themselves the question of
the meaning of life, and uniformly answer it, it is only necessary that those who regard themselves
as enlightened should cease to think and to inculcate to other generations that religion is
atavism, the survival of a past wild state, and that for the good life of men the spreading
of education is sufficient--i.e. the spread of the most varied knowledge which is in some way
to bring men to justice and to a moral life. These men should understand instead that for the
good life of humanity religion is vital, and that this religion already exists and lives in
the consciousness of the men of our time. Men who are intentionally and unintentionally stupefying
the people by church superstitions should cease to do so, and recognize that what is important
and binding in Christianity is not baptism, nor Communion, nor profession of dogmas, etc.,
but only love to God and to one's neighbor, and the fulfilling of the commandment of acting
toward others as one wishes others to act toward oneself--and that in this lies all the law
and the prophets.

If only both pseudo-Christians and men of science understood and preached to children and to
the uneducated these simple, clear, and necessary truths as they now preach their complicated,
confused, and unnecessary theories, all men would uniformly understand the meaning of their
lives and recognize one and the same duties as flowing from this meaning.

                                   IX

But "How are we to act now, immediately among ourselves, in Russia, at this moment, when our
foes have already attacked us, are killing our people, and threatening us; what should be the
action," I shall be asked, "of a Russian soldier, officer, general, Tsar, private individual?
Are we, forsooth, to allow our enemies to ruin our possessions, to seize the productions of
our labors, to carry away prisoners, or kill our men? What are we to do now that this thing
has begun?"

But before the work of war was commenced, by whomsoever it was commenced--every awakened man
must answer--before all else the work of my life was commenced. And the work of my life has
nothing in common with recognition of the rights of the Chinese, Japanese, or Russians to Port
Arthur. The work of my life consists in fulfilling the will of Him who sent me into this life.
This will is known to me. This will is that I should love my neighbor and serve him. Then why
should I, following temporary, casual, irrational, and cruel demands, deviate from the known
eternal and changeless law of all my life? If there be a God, He will not ask me when I die
(which may happen at any moment) whether I retained Chi-nam-po with its timber stores, or Port
Arthur, or even that conglomeration which is called the Russian Empire, which He did not confide
to my care; but He will ask me what I have done with that life which He put at my disposal;--did
I use it for the purpose for which it was predestined, and under the conditions for fulfilling
which it was intrusted to me? Have I fulfilled His law?

So that to this question as to what is to be done now, when war is commenced, for me, a man
who understands his destiny, whatever position I may occupy, there can be no other answer than
this, whatever be my circumstances, whether the war be commenced or not, whether thousands
of Russians or Japanese be killed, whether not only Port Arthur be taken, but St. Petersburg
and Moscow--I cannot act otherwise than as God demands of me, and that therefore I as a man
can neither directly nor indirectly, neither by directing, nor by helping, nor by inciting
to it, participate in war; I cannot, I do not wish to, and I will not. What will happen immediately
or soon, from my ceasing to do that which is contrary to the will of God, I do not and cannot
know; but I believe that from the fulfilment of the will of God there can follow nothing but
that which is good for me and for all men.

You speak with horror about what might happen if we Russians at this moment ceased to fight,
and surrendered to the Japanese what they desire from us. But if it be true that the salvation
of mankind from brutalization and self-destruction lies only in the establishment amongst men
of that true religion which demands that we should love our neighbor and serve him (with which
it is impossible to disagree), then every war, every hour of war, and my participation in it,
only renders more difficult and distant the realization of this only possible salvation.

So that, even if one places oneself on the unstable point of view of defining actions according
to their presumed consequences--even then the surrender to the Japanese by the Russians of
all which the former desire of us, besides the unquestionable advantage of the cessation of
ruin and slaughter, would be an approach to the only means of the salvation of mankind from
destruction; whereas the continuance of the war, however it may end, will be a postponement
of that only means of salvation.

"Yet even if this be so," it is replied, "wars can cease only when all men, or the majority,
will refuse to participate in them. But the refusal of one man, whether he be Tsar or soldier,
would only, unnecessarily, and without the slightest profit to any one, ruin his life. If the
Russian Tsar were now to throw up the war, he would be dethroned, perhaps killed, in order
to get rid of him; if an ordinary man were to refuse military service, he would be sent to
a penal battalion and perhaps shot. Why, then, without the slightest use should one throw away
one's life, which may be profitable to society?" is the common question of those who do not
think of the destination of their life and therefore do not understand it.

But this is not what is said and felt by any man who understands the destination of his life--i.e.
by any religious man. Such a man is guided in his activity not by the presumed consequences
of his action, but by the consciousness of the destination of his life. A factory workman goes
to his factory and in it accomplishes the work which is allotted him without considering what
will be the consequences of his labor. In the same way a soldier acts, carrying out the will
of his commanders. So acts a religious man in fulfilling the work prescribed to him by God,
without arguing as to what precisely will come of that work. Therefore for a religious man
there is no question as to whether many or few men act as he does, or of what may happen to
him if he does that which he should do. He knows that besides life and death nothing can happen,
and that life and death are in the hands of God whom he obeys.

A religious man acts thus and not otherwise, not because he desires to act thus, nor because
it is advantageous to himself or to other men, but because, believing that his life is in the
hands of God, he cannot act otherwise.

In this lies the distinction of the activity of religious men; and therefore it is that the
salvation of men from the calamities which they inflict upon themselves can be realized only
in that degree in which they are guided in their lives, not by advantage nor arguments, but
by religious consciousness.

                                   X

"But how about the enemies that attack us?"

"Love your enemies, and ye will have none," is said in the teaching of the Twelve Apostles.
This answer is not merely words, as those may imagine who are accustomed to think that the
recommendation of love to one's enemies is something hyperbolical, and signifies not that which
expressed, but something else. This answer is the indication of a very clear and definite activity,
and of its consequences.

To love one's enemies--the Japanese, the Chinese, those yellow people toward whom benighted
men are now endeavoring to excite our hatred--to love them means not to kill them for the purpose
of having the right of poisoning them with opium, as did the English; not to kill them in order
to seize their land, as was done by the French, the Russians, and the Germans; not to bury
them alive in punishment for injuring roads, not to tie them together by their hair, not to
drown them in their river Amur, as did the Russians.

"A disciple is not above his master.... It is enough for a disciple that he be as his master."

To love the yellow people, whom we call our foes, means, not to teach them under the name of
Christianity absurd superstitions about the fall of man, redemption, resurrection, etc., not
to teach them the art of deceiving and killing others, but to teach them justice, unselfishness,
compassion, love--and that not by words, but by the example of our own good life. And what
have we been doing to them, and are still doing?

If we did indeed love our enemies, if even now we began to love our enemies, the Japanese,
we would have no enemy.

Therefore, however strange it may appear to those occupied with military plans, preparations,
diplomatic considerations, administrative, financial, economical measures, revolutionary, socialistic
propaganda, and various unnecessary sciences, by which they think to save mankind from its
calamities, the deliverance of man, not only from the calamities of war, but also from all
the calamities which men inflict upon themselves, will take place not through emperors or kings
instituting peace alliances, not through those who would dethrone emperors, kings, or restrain
them by constitutions, or substitute republics for monarchies, not by peace conferences, not
by the realization of socialistic programmes, not by victories or defeats on land or sea, not
by libraries or universities, nor by those futile mental exercises which are now called science;
but only by there being more and more of those simple men who, like the Dukhobors, Drojjin,
Olkhovik, in Russia, the Nazarenes in Austria, Condatier in France, Tervey in Holland, and
others, having placed as their object not external alterations of life, but the closest fulfilment
in themselves of the will of Him who has sent them into life, will direct all their powers
to this realization. Only such people realizing the Kingdom of God in themselves, in their
souls, will establish, without directly aiming at this purpose, that external Kingdom of God
which every human soul is longing for.

Salvation will come to pass only in this one way and not in any other. Therefore what is now
being done by those who, ruling men, inspire them with religious and patriotic superstitions,
exciting in them exclusiveness, hatred, and murder, as well as by those who, for the purpose
of freeing men from slavery and oppression, invoke them to violent external revolution, or
think that the acquisition by men of very much incidental and for the most part unnecessary
information will of itself bring them to a good life--all this, by distracting men from what
alone they need, only removes them further from the possibility of salvation.

The evil from which the men of the Christian world suffer is that they have temporarily lost
religion.

