So that, however strange this may appear, the most effective and certain deliverance of men
from all the calamities which they inflict upon themselves and from the most dreadful of all--war--is
attainable, not by any external general measures, but merely by that simple appeal to the consciousness
of each separate man which, nineteen hundred years ago, was proposed by Jesus--that every man
bethink himself, and ask himself, who is he, why he lives, and what he should and should not do.

                                  VII

The evil from which men of our time are suffering is produced by the fact that the majority
live without that which alone affords a rational guidance for human activity--without religion;
not that religion which consists in belief in dogmas, in the fulfilment of rites which afford
a pleasant diversion, consolation, stimulant, but that religion which establishes the relation
of man to the All, to God, and, therefore, gives a general higher direction to all human activity,
and without which people stand on the plane of animals and even lower than they. This evil
which is leading men to inevitable destruction has manifested itself with special power in
our time, because, having lost all rational guidance in life, and having directed all efforts
to discoveries and improvements principally in the sphere of technical knowledge, men of our
time have developed in themselves enormous power over the forces of nature; but, not having
any guidance for the rational adaptation of this power, they naturally have used it for the
satisfaction of their lowest and most animal propensities.

Bereft of religion, men possessing enormous power over the forces of nature are like children
to whom powder or explosive gas has been given as a plaything. Considering this power which
men of our time possess, and the way they use it, one feels that considering the degree of
their moral development men have no right, not only to the use of railways, steam, electricity,
telephones, photography, wireless telegraphs, but even to the simple art of manufacturing iron
and steel, as all these improvements and arts they use only for the satisfaction of their lusts,
for amusement, dissipation, and the destruction of each other.

Then, what is to be done? To reject all these improvements of life, all this power acquired
by humanity--to forget that which it has learnt? This is impossible, however perniciously these
mental acquisitions are used; they still are acquisitions, and men cannot forget them. To alter
those combinations of nations which have been formed during centuries and to establish new
ones? To invent such new institutions as would hinder the minority from deceiving and exploiting
the majority? To disseminate knowledge? All this has been tried, and is being done with great
fervor. All these imaginary methods of improvement represent the chief methods of self-oblivion
and of diverting one's attention from the consciousness of inevitable perdition. The boundaries
of States are changed, institutions are altered, knowledge is disseminated; but within other
boundaries, with other organizations, with increased knowledge, men remain the same beasts,
ready any minute to tear each other to pieces, or the same slaves they have always been, and
always will be, while they continue to be guided, not by religious consciousness, but by passions,
theories, and external influences.

