CONTENTS.

  I.   THE HERO AS DIVINITY.  ODIN.  PAGANISM:  SCANDINAVIAN MYTHOLOGY.
  II.  THE HERO AS PROPHET.  MAHOMET:  ISLAM.
  III. THE HERO AS POET.  DANTE:  SHAKSPEARE.
  IV.  THE HERO AS PRIEST.  LUTHER; REFORMATION:  KNOX; PURITANISM.
  V.   THE HERO AS MAN OF LETTERS.  JOHNSON, ROUSSEAU, BURNS.
  VI.  THE HERO AS KING.  CROMWELL, NAPOLEON:  MODERN REVOLUTIONISM.

LECTURES ON HEROES.

LECTURE I. THE HERO AS DIVINITY. ODIN. PAGANISM: SCANDINAVIAN MYTHOLOGY.

[May 5, 1840.]

We have undertaken to discourse here for a little on Great Men, their manner of appearance
in our world's business, how they have shaped themselves in the world's history, what ideas
men formed of them, what work they did;--on Heroes, namely, and on their reception and performance;
what I call Hero-worship and the Heroic in human affairs. Too evidently this is a large topic;
deserving quite other treatment than we can expect to give it at present. A large topic; indeed,
an illimitable one; wide as Universal History itself. Too clearly it is a topic we shall do
no justice to in this place!

One comfort is, that Great Men, taken up in any way, are profitable company. We cannot look,
however imperfectly, upon a great man, without gaining something by him. He is the living light-fountain,
which it is good and pleasant to be near. The light which enlightens, which has enlightened
the darkness of the world; and this not as a kindled lamp only, but rather as a natural luminary
shining by the gift of Heaven; a flowing light-fountain, as I say, of native original insight,
of manhood and heroic nobleness;--in whose radiance all souls feel that it is well with them.
On any terms whatsoever, you will not grudge to wander in such neighborhood for a while. These
Six classes of Heroes, chosen out of widely distant countries and epochs, and in mere external
figure differing altogether, ought, if we look faithfully at them, to illustrate several things
for us. But I am not prepared to proscribe men for the best thing that they ever did in their lives,
to proscribe men for attempting to avert a revolution by timely mediation. "It was justly said
by another speaker that Halifax and Nottingham had been sent to the Dutch camp because they possessed
the confidence of the nation, because they were universally known to be hostile to the dispensing
power, to the Popish religion, and to the French ascendency.

It was at length resolved that the King should be requested in general terms to find out and
to remove the authors of the late miscarriages, [549] A committee was appointed to prepare an Address.
John Hampden was chairman, and drew up a representation in terms so bitter that, when it was
reported to the House, his own father expressed disapprobation, and one member exclaimed:" This
an address! It is a libel. "After a sharp debate, the Address was recommitted, and was not again mentioned,
[550] Indeed, the animosity which a large part of the House had felt
against Halifax was beginning to abate.

It was known that, though he had not yet formally delivered up the Privy Seal, he had ceased to
be a confidential adviser of the Crown. The power which he had enjoyed during the first months
of the reign of William and Mary had passed to the more daring, more unscrupulous and more
practical Caermarthen, against whose influence Shrewsbury contended in vain. Personally Shrewsbury
stood high in the royal favour: but he was a leader of the Whigs, and, like all leaders of parties,
was frequently pushed forward against his will by those who seemed to follow him. He was himself inclined
to a mild and moderate policy: but he had not sufficient firmness to withstand the clamorous
importunity with which such politicians as John Howe and John Hampden demanded vengeance on their enemies.
His advice had therefore, at this time, little weight with his master, who neither loved the
Tories nor trusted them, but who was fully determined not to proscribe them. Meanwhile the Whigs,
conscious that they had lately sunk in the opinion both of the King
and of the nation, resolved on making a bold and crafty attempt to
become independent of both.

A perfect
account of that attempt cannot be constructed out of the scanty and widely dispersed materials
which have come down to us. Yet the story, as it has come down to us, is both interesting and
instructive. A bill for restoring the rights of those corporations which had surrendered their
charters to the Crown during the last two reigns had been brought
into the House of Commons, had been received with general applause
by men of all parties, had been read twice, and had been referred
to a select committee, of which Somers was chairman.

On
the second of January Somers brought up the report. The attendance of Tories was scanty: for, as no important
discussion was expected, many country gentlemen had left town, and were keeping a merry Christmas by
the chimney fires of their manor houses. The muster of zealous Whigs was strong. As soon as the bill
had been reported, Sacheverell, renowned in the stormy parliaments of the reign of Charles the Second
as one of the ablest and keenest of the Exclusionists, stood up and moved to add a clause providing
that every municipal functionary who had in any manner been a party to the surrendering of the
franchises of a borough should be incapable for seven years of holding
any office in that borough.

The constitution of almost every corporate town in England had been remodelled during that hot fit
of loyalty which followed the detection of the Rye House Plot; and, in almost every corporate town,
the voice of the Tories had been for delivering up the charter, and for trusting every thing to the
paternal care of the Sovereign. The effect of Sacheverell's clause, therefore, was to make
some thousands of the most opulent and highly considered men in the kingdom incapable, during
seven years, of bearing any part in the government of the places in which they resided, and to secure
to the Whig party, during seven years, an overwhelming influence in borough elections. The minority
exclaimed against the gross injustice of passing, rapidly and by surprise, at a season when London
was empty, a law of the highest importance, a law which retrospectively inflicted a severe
penalty on many hundreds of respectable gentlemen, a law which would call forth the strongest
passions in every town from Berwick to St. Ives, a law which must have
a serious effect on the composition of the House itself.

Common decency required at least an adjournment. An adjournment was moved: but the motion was rejected
by a hundred and twenty-seven votes to eighty-nine. Quackery and dupery do abound; in religions, above all in the more
advanced decaying stages of religions, they have fearfully abounded: but quackery was never
the originating influence in such things; it was not the health and life of such things, but
their disease, the sure precursor of their being about to die! Let us never forget this. It
seems to me a most mournful hypothesis, that of quackery giving birth to any faith even in
savage men. Quackery gives birth to nothing; gives death to all things. We shall not see into
the true heart of anything, if we look merely at the quackeries of it; if we do not reject
the quackeries altogether; as mere diseases, corruptions, with which our and all men's sole
duty is to have done with them, to sweep them out of our thoughts as out of our practice. Man
everywhere is the born enemy of lies. I find Grand Lamaism itself to have a kind of truth in
it. Read the candid, clear-sighted, rather sceptical Mr. Turner's Account of his Embassy to
that country, and see. They have their belief, these poor Thibet people, that Providence sends
down always an Incarnation of Himself into every generation. At bottom some belief in a kind
of Pope! At bottom still better, belief that there is a Greatest Man; that he is discoverable;
that, once discovered, we ought to treat him with an obedience which knows no bounds! This
is the truth of Grand Lamaism; the "discoverability" is the only error here. The Thibet priests
have methods of their own of discovering what Man is Greatest, fit to be supreme over them.
Bad methods: but are they so much worse than our methods,--of understanding him to be always
the eldest-born of a certain genealogy? Alas, it is a difficult thing to find good methods
for!--We shall begin to have a chance of understanding Paganism, when we first admit that to
its followers it was, at one time, earnestly true. Let us consider it very certain that men
did believe in Paganism; men with open eyes, sound senses, men made altogether like ourselves;
that we, had we been there, should have believed in it. Ask now, What Paganism could have been?

Another theory, somewhat more respectable, attributes such things to Allegory. It was a play
of poetic minds, say these theorists; a shadowing forth, in allegorical fable, in personification
and visual form, of what such poetic minds had known and felt of this Universe. Which agrees,
add they, with a primary law of human nature, still everywhere observably at work, though in
less important things, That what a man feels intensely, he struggles to speak out of him, to
see represented before him in visual shape, and as if with a kind of life and historical reality
in it. Now doubtless there is such a law, and it is one of the deepest in human nature; neither
need we doubt that it did operate fundamentally in this business. The hypothesis which ascribes
Paganism wholly or mostly to this agency, I call a little more respectable; but I cannot yet
call it the true hypothesis. Think, would we believe, and take with us as our life-guidance,
an allegory, a poetic sport? Not sport but earnest is what we should require. It is a most
earnest thing to be alive in this world; to die is not sport for a man. Man's life never was
a sport to him; it was a stern reality, altogether a serious matter to be alive!

I find, therefore, that though these Allegory theorists are on the way towards truth in this
matter, they have not reached it either. Pagan Religion is indeed an Allegory, a Symbol of
what men felt and knew about the Universe; and all Religions are symbols of that, altering
always as that alters: but it seems to me a radical perversion, and even inversion, of the
business, to put that forward as the origin and moving cause, when it was rather the result
and termination. To get beautiful allegories, a perfect poetic symbol, was not the want of
men; but to know what they were to believe about this Universe, what course they were to steer
in it; what, in this mysterious Life of theirs, they had to hope and to fear, to do and to
forbear doing. The Pilgrim's Progress is an Allegory, and a beautiful, just and serious one:
but consider whether Bunyan's Allegory could have preceded the Faith it symbolizes! The Faith
had to be already there, standing believed by everybody;--of which the Allegory could then
become a shadow; and, with all its seriousness, we may say a sportful shadow, a mere play of
the Fancy, in comparison with that awful Fact and scientific certainty which it poetically
strives to emblem. The Allegory is the product of the certainty, not the producer of it; not
in Bunyan's nor in any other case. For Paganism, therefore, we have still to inquire, Whence
came that scientific certainty, the parent of such a bewildered heap of allegories, errors
and confusions? How was it, what was it?

Surely it were a foolish attempt to pretend "explaining," in this place, or in any place, such
a phenomenon as that far-distant distracted cloudy imbroglio of Paganism,--more like a cloud-field
than a distant continent of firm land and facts! It is no longer a reality, yet it was one.
We ought to understand that this seeming cloud-field was once a reality; that not poetic allegory,
least of all that dupery and deception was the origin of it. Men, I say, never did believe
idle songs, never risked their soul's life on allegories: men in all times, especially in early
earnest times, have had an instinct for detecting quacks, for detesting quacks. Let us try
if, leaving out both the quack theory and the allegory one, and listening with affectionate
attention to that far-off confused rumor of the Pagan ages, we cannot ascertain so much as
this at least, That there was a kind of fact at the heart of them; that they too were not mendacious
and distracted, but in their own poor way true and sane!

You remember that fancy of Plato's, of a man who had grown to maturity in some dark distance,
and was brought on a sudden into the upper air to see the sun rise. What would his wonder be,
his rapt astonishment at the sight we daily witness with indifference! With the free open sense
of a child, yet with the ripe faculty of a man, his whole heart would be kindled by that sight,
he would discern it well to be Godlike, his soul would fall down in worship before it. Now,
just such a childlike greatness was in the primitive nations. The first Pagan Thinker among
rude men, the first man that began to think, was precisely this child-man of Plato's. Simple,
open as a child, yet with the depth and strength of a man. Nature had as yet no name to him;
he had not yet united under a name the infinite variety of sights, sounds, shapes and motions,
which we now collectively name Universe, Nature, or the like,--and so with a name dismiss it
from us. To the wild deep-hearted man all was yet new, not veiled under names or formulas;
it stood naked, flashing in on him there, beautiful, awful, unspeakable. Nature was to this
man, what to the Thinker and Prophet it forever is, preternatural. This green flowery rock-built
earth, the trees, the mountains, rivers, many-sounding seas;--that great deep sea of azure
that swims overhead; the winds sweeping through it; the black cloud fashioning itself together,
now pouring out fire, now hail and rain; what is it? Ay, what? At bottom we do not yet know;
we can never know at all. It is not by our superior insight that we escape the difficulty;
it is by our superior levity, our inattention, our want of insight. It is by not thinking that
we cease to wonder at it. Hardened round us, encasing wholly every notion we form, is a wrappage
of traditions, hearsays, mere words. We call that fire of the black thunder-cloud "electricity,"
and lecture learnedly about it, and grind the like of it out of glass and silk: but what is
it? What made it? Whence comes it? Whither goes it? Science has done much for us; but it is
a poor science that would hide from us the great deep sacred infinitude of Nescience, whither
we can never penetrate, on which all science swims as a mere superficial film. This world,
after all our science and sciences, is still a miracle; wonderful, inscrutable, magical and
more, to whosoever will think of it.

That great mystery of TIME, were there no other; the illimitable, silent, never-resting thing
called Time, rolling, rushing on, swift, silent, like an all-embracing ocean-tide, on which
we and all the Universe swim like exhalations, like apparitions which are, and then are not:
this is forever very literally a miracle; a thing to strike us dumb,--for we have no word to
speak about it. This Universe, ah me--what could the wild man know of it; what can we yet know?
That it is a Force, and thousand-fold Complexity of Forces; a Force which is not we. That is
all; it is not we, it is altogether different from us. Force, Force, everywhere Force; we ourselves
a mysterious Force in the centre of that. "There is not a leaf rotting on the highway but has
Force in it; how else could it rot?" Nay surely, to the Atheistic Thinker, if such a one were
possible, it must be a miracle too, this huge illimitable whirlwind of Force, which envelops
us here; never-resting whirlwind, high as Immensity, old as Eternity. What is it? God's Creation,
the religious people answer; it is the Almighty God's! Atheistic science babbles poorly of
it, with scientific nomenclatures, experiments and what not, as if it were a poor dead thing,
to be bottled up in Leyden jars and sold over counters: but the natural sense of man, in all
times, if he will honestly apply his sense, proclaims it to be a living thing,--ah, an unspeakable,
godlike thing; towards which the best attitude for us, after never so much science, is awe,
devout prostration and humility of soul; worship if not in words, then in silence.

But now I remark farther: What in such a time as ours it requires a Prophet or Poet to teach
us, namely, the stripping-off of those poor undevout wrappages, nomenclatures and scientific
hearsays,--this, the ancient earnest soul, as yet unencumbered with these things, did for itself. Paternal
authority, that noble image of a master sovereignly good, demands nothing of its children
that does not tend to make them better or happier. How then can we imagine that God would exact
anything from man, which has not man himself for its object? You see also what confusion in
the understandings of your people results from the practice of attaching more importance to religious
ceremonies than to moral duties. It is after Holy Week, you know, that the greatest number of
murders is committed at Rome. The people think, to use the expression, that they have laid
in a stock during Lent, and expend in assassination the treasures of their penitence. Criminals
have been seen, yet reeking with murder, who have scrupled to eat meat on a Friday; and gross
minds, who have been persuaded that the greatest of crimes consists in disobeying the discipline
of the church, exhaust their consciences on this head, and conceive that the Deity, like human
sovereigns, esteems submission to his power more than every other virtue. This is to substitute
the sycophancy of a courtier for the respect which the Creator inspires, as the source and reward
of a scrupulous and delicate life.

Catholicism in Italy, confining itself to external demonstrations, dispenses the soul from
meditation and self-contemplation. When the spectacle is over, the emotion ceases, the duty
is fulfilled, and one is not, as with us, a long time absorbed in thoughts and sentiments,
which give birth to a rigid examination of one's conduct and heart.

"" You are severe, my dear Oswald, "replied Corinne;" it is not the first time I have remarked
it. If religion consisted only in a strict observance of moral duties, in what would it be superior
to reason and philosophy? And what sentiments of piety could we discover, if our principal
aim were to stifle the feelings of the heart?

The stoics were as enlightened as we, as to the duties and the austerity of human conduct;
but that which is peculiar to Christianity is the religious enthusiasm which blends with every
affection of the soul; it is the power of love and pity; it is the worship of sentiment and
of indulgence, so favourable to the flights of the soul towards heaven. How are we to interpret
the parable of the Prodigal Son, if not that love, sincere love, is preferred even to the most
exact discharge of every duty? This son had quitted his paternal abode, and his brother had remained
there; he had plunged into all the dissipation and pleasure of the world, and his brother
had never deviated for a single moment from the regularity of domestic life; but he returned, full
of love for his father and of repentance for his past follies, and his parent celebrated this
return by a festival. Ah! can it be doubted that among the mysteries of our nature, to love
and to love again is what remains to us of our celestial inheritance? Even our virtues are
often too complicated with life, for us to comprehend the gradations
of good, and what is the secret sentiment that governs and leads us
astray: I ask of my God to teach me to adore him, and I feel the effect
of my prayers in the tears that I shed.

But to support this disposition of the soul, religious practices are more necessary than you
think; they are a constant communication with the Deity; they are daily actions, unconnected
with the interests of life and solely directed towards the invisible world. External objects are also
a great help to piety; the soul falls back upon itself, if the fine arts, great monuments,
and harmonic strains, do not reanimate that poetical genius, which is synonymous with religious
inspiration.

"The most vulgar man, when he prays, when he suffers, and places hope in heaven, has at that moment
something in him which he would express like Milton, Homer, or Tasso, if education had taught him to
clothe his thoughts with words. There are only two distinct classes of men in the world; those
who feel enthusiasm, and those who despise it; every other difference
is the work of society.

The former cannot find words to express their sentiments, and the latter know what it is necessary
to say to conceal the emptiness of their heart. But the spring that bursts from the rock at the voice
of heaven, that spring is the true talent, the true religion, the
true love."

The pomp of our worship; those pictures in which the kneeling saints express a continual prayer
in their looks; those statues placed on the tombs as if they were one day to rise with their inhabitants;
those churches and their immense domes, have an intimate connection with religious ideas. I
like this splendid homage paid by men to that which promises them neither fortune nor power-- to
that which neither punishes nor rewards them, but by a sentiment of the heart. I then feel
more proud of my being; I recognise something disinterested in man;
and were even religious magnificence multiplied to an extreme, I should
love that prodigality of terrestrial riches for another life, of time
for eternity: enough is provided for the morrow, enough care is taken
for the economy of human affairs.

How I love the useless, useless if existence be only a painful toil for a miserable gain! But
if on this earth we are journeying towards heaven, what can we do better than to take every
means of elevating our soul, that it may feel the infinite, the invisible, and the eternal,
in the midst of all the limits that surround us?

"Jesus Christ permitted a weak, and perhaps, repentant woman, to anoint His feet with the most
precious perfumes, and repulsed those who advised that those perfumes should be reserved for a
more profitable use." Let her alone "said He," for I am only with you for a short time. "Alas!
all that is good and sublime upon earth is only with us for a short time; age, infirmity, and death,
would soon dry up that drop of dew which falls from heaven and only rests upon the flowers.
Let us then, dear Oswald, confound everything,-- love, religion, genius, the sun, the perfumes,
music, and poetry: atheism only consists in coldness, egotism, and baseness. Jesus Christ has
said: When two or three are gathered together in my name, I will be in the midst of them. And
what is it O God! to be assembled in Thy name, if it be not to enjoy Thy sublime gifts, and
to offer Thee our homage, to thank Thee for that existence which
Thou hast given us; above all, to thank Thee, when a heart, also created
by Thee is perfectly responsive to our own?"

At this moment a celestial inspiration animated the countenance of Corinne. Oswald could hardly refrain
from falling on his knees before her in the midst of the temple, and was silent for a long time
to indulge in the pleasure of recalling her words and retracing them still in her looks. At
last he set about replying; for he would not abandon a cause that was dear to him. "Corinne," said
he, then, "indulge your lover with a few words more. His heart is not dry; no, Corinne, believe
me it is not, and if I am an advocate for austerity in principle and action, it is because
it renders sentiment more deep and permanent. If I love reason in religion, that is to say,
if I reject contradictory dogmas and human means of producing effect upon men, it is because I
perceive the Deity in reason as well as in enthusiasm; and if I cannot
bear that man should be deprived of any one of his faculties, it is
because I conceive them all barely sufficient to comprehend truths
which reflection reveals to him, as well as the instinct of the heart,
namely, the existence of God, and the immortality of the soul.

What can be added to these sublime ideas, to their union with virtue? What can we add thereto
that is not beneath them? The poetical enthusiasm which gives you so many charms, is not,
I venture to assert, the most salutary devotion. Corinne, how could we by this disposition
prepare for the innumerable sacrifices which duty exacts of us! There was no revelation, except
by the flights of the soul, when human destiny, present and future, only revealed itself to the
mind through clouds; but for us, to whom Christianity has rendered it clear and positive, feeling
may be our recompense, but ought not to be our only guide: you describe the existence of the
blessed, not that of mortals. Religious life is a combat, not a hymn. If we were not condemned
in this world to repress the evil inclinations of others and of ourselves, there would in
truth be no distinction to be made except between cold and enthusiastic souls. But man is
a harsher and more formidable creature than your heart paints him to you; and reason in piety,
and authority in duty, are a necessary curb to the wanderings of
his pride."

In whatever manner you may consider the external pomp and multiplied ceremonies of your religion,
believe me, my love, the contemplation of the universe and its author, will be always the chief
worship; that which will fill the imagination, without any thing futile or absurd being found in
it upon investigation. Those dogmas which wound my reason also cool
my enthusiasm.

Undoubtedly the world, such as it is, is a mystery which we can neither deny nor comprehend;
it would therefore be foolish to refuse credence to what we are unable to explain; but that
which is contradictory is always of human creation. The mysteries of heavenly origin are above
the lights of the mind; but not in opposition to them. A German philosopher [31] has said: I know
but two beautiful things in the universe: the starry sky above our heads, and the sentiment
of duty in our hearts. In truth all the wonders of the creation are
comprised in these words.

"So
far from a simple and severe religion searing our hearts, I should have thought, before I
had known you, Corinne, that it was the only one which could concentrate and perpetuate the
affections. I have seen the most pure and austere conduct unfold in a man the most inexhaustible
tenderness. I have seen him preserve even to old age, a virginity of soul, which the passions
and their criminal effects would necessarily have withered. Undoubtedly repentance is a fine
thing, and I have more need than any person to believe in its efficacy; but repeated repentance
fatigues the soul-- this sentiment can only regenerate once. It is the redemption which is accomplished
at the bottom of our soul, and this great sacrifice cannot be renewed. When human weakness is accustomed
to it, the power to love is lost; for power is necessary in order
to love, at least with constancy."

I
shall offer some objections of the same kind to that splendid form of worship, which according
to you, acts so powerfully upon the imagination. I believe the imagination to be modest, and
retired as the heart. The emotions which are imposed on it, are less powerful than those born
of itself. I have seen in the Cevennes, a Protestant minister who preached towards the evening
in the heart of the mountains. He invoked the tombs of the French, banished and proscribed by their
brethren, whose ashes had been assembled together in this spot. He promised their friends
that they should meet them again in a better world. He said that a virtuous life secured us
this happiness; he said: do good to mankind, that God may heal in your heart the wound of grief. He
testified his astonishment at the inflexibility and hard-heartedness of man, the creature of
a day, to his fellow man equally with himself the creature of a day, and seized upon that terrible
idea of death, which the living have conceived, but which they will
never be able to exhaust.

In short, he said nothing that was not affecting and true: his words were perfectly in harmony
with nature. The torrent which was heard in the distance, the scintillating light of the stars,
seemed to express the same thought under another form. The magnificence of nature was there, that
magnificence, which can feast the soul without offending misfortune; and all this imposing simplicity,
touched the soul more deeply than dazzling ceremonies could have
done.

"On the second day after this conversation, Easter Sunday, Corinne and Lord Nelville went together
to the square of St Peter, at the moment when the Pope appears upon the most elevated balcony
of the church, and asks of heaven that benediction which he is about to bestow on the land; when he
pronounces these words, urbi et orbi (to the city and to the world)-- all the assembled people fell
on their knees, and Corinne and Lord Nelville felt, by the emotion which they experienced at
this moment, that all forms of worship resemble each other. The religious sentiment intimately
unites men among themselves, when self-love and fanaticism do not make it an object of jealousy
and hatred. To pray together in the same language, whatever be the form of worship, is the
most pathetic bond of fraternity, of hope, and of sympathy, which
men can contract upon earth.

FOOTNOTE: [31] Kant.

Chapter
vi. Easter-Day was passed, and Corinne took no notice of the fulfilment
of her promise to confide her history to Lord Nelville.

Wounded by this silence, he said one day before her that he had heard
much of the beauty of Naples, and that he had a mind to visit it.

Corinne, discovering in a moment what was passing in his soul, proposed to perform the journey
with him. She flattered herself that she, should be able to postpone the confession which he
required of her, by giving him this satisfying proof of her love. And besides she thought that
if he should take her with him, it would be without doubt because he desired to consecrate his
life to her. She waited then with anxiety for what he should say to her, and her almost suppliant
looks seemed to entreat a favourable answer. Oswald could not resist; he had at first been surprised
at this offer and the simplicity with which Corinne made it, and hesitated for some time before
he accepted it; but beholding the agitation of her he loved, her palpitating bosom, her eyes suffused with
tears, he consented to set out with her, without reflecting upon the importance of such a resolution.
Corinne was elevated to the summit of joy; for at this moment her
heart entirely relied on the passion of Oswald. The day was fixed upon, and
the sweet perspective of their journey together made every other
idea disappear.

They amused themselves with settling the details of their journey, and every one of these
details was a source of pleasure.

Happy disposition of the soul, in which all the arrangements of life have a particular charm, from their connection
with some hope of the heart! That moment arrives only too soon, when each hour of our existence is
as fatiguing as its entirety, when every morning requires an effort to support the awakening and
to guide the day to its close. The moment Lord Nelville left Corinne's house in order to prepare
every thing for their departure, the Count d'Erfeuil arrived, and learnt from her the project
which they had just determined on.--" Surely you don't think of such
a thing!

"said he," what! travel with Lord Nelville without his being your husband! without his having promised
to marry you! And what will you do if he abandon you? "" Why, "replied Corinne," in any situation
of life if he were to cease to love me, I should be the most wretched creature in the world! ""
Yes, but if you have done nothing to compromise your character, you
will remain entirely yourself.

"--" Remain entirely myself, when the deepest sentiment of my life shall be withered? when my
heart shall be broken? "--" The public will not know it, and by a little dissimulation you would
lose nothing in the general opinion. "" And why should I take pains to preserve that opinion, "replied
Corinne," if not to gain an additional charm in the eyes of him I love? "--" We may cease to
love, "answered the Count," but we cannot cease to live in the midst of society, and to need its
services. "--" Ah! if I could think, "retorted Corinne," that that day would arrive when Oswald's
affection would not be all in all to me in this world; if I could believe it, I should already have
ceased to love. What is love when it anticipates and reckons upon the moment when it shall no longer
exist? If there be any thing religious in this sentiment, it is because
it makes every other interest disappear, and, like devotion, takes
a pleasure in the entire sacrifice of self. ""

What is that you tell me? "replied the Count d'Erfeuil," can such an intellectual lady as you
fill her head with such nonsense? It is the advantage of us men that women think as you do-- we
have thus more ascendancy over you; but your superiority must not
be lost, it must be serviceable to you.

"" Serviceable to me? "said Corinne," Ah! I owe it much, if it has enabled me to feel more acutely
all that is interesting and generous in the character of Lord Nelville. "--" Lord Nelville is
like other men, "said the Count;" he will return to his native country, he will pursue his profession;
in short he will recover his reason, and you would imprudently expose your reputation by going
to Naples with him. "--" I am ignorant of the intentions of Lord Nelville, "observed Corinne,"
and perhaps I should have done better to have reflected more deeply before I had let him obtain such
power over my heart; but now, what signifies one more sacrifice! Does not my life depend on
his love? I feel pleasure, on the contrary, in leaving myself no resource;-- there is none when
the heart is wounded; nevertheless, the world may sometimes think the contrary, and I love to reflect
that even in this respect my calamity would be complete, if Lord
Nelville were to leave me!

"--" And does he know how you expose yourself on his account? "proceeded d'Erfeuil.--" I have
taken great care to conceal it from him, "answered Corinne," and as he is not well acquainted with
the customs of this country, I have a little exaggerated to him the latitude of conduct which
they allow. I must exact from you a promise, that you will never undeceive him in this respect-- I wish him to be perfectly
free, he can never make me happy by any kind of sacrifice. The sentiment which renders me happy is
the flower of my life; were it once to decay, neither kindness nor delicacy could revive it.
I conjure you then, my dear Count, not to interfere with my destiny; no opinion of yours upon the affections
of the heart can possibly apply to me. Your observations are very prudent, very sensible, and extremely
applicable to the situations of ordinary life; but you would innocently do me a great injury,
in attempting to judge of my character in the same manner as large bodies of people are judged,
for whom there are maxims ready made. My sufferings, my enjoyments, and my feelings, are peculiar
to myself, and whoever would influence my happiness must contemplate me alone, unconnected with
the rest of the world. "The self-love of Count d'Erfeuil was a little
wounded by the inutility of his counsels, and the decided proof of her affection
for Lord Nelville which Corinne gave him.

He knew very well that he himself was not beloved by her, he knew equally that Oswald was; but it
was unpleasant to him to hear this so openly avowed.

There is always something in the favour which a man finds in a lady's sight, that offends even
his best friends.--" I see that I can do nothing for you, "said the Count;" but should you become
very unhappy you will think of me; in the meantime, I am going to leave Rome, for since you
and Lord Nelville are about to quit it, I should be too much bored in your absence. I shall certainly
see you both again, either in Scotland or Italy; for since I can do nothing better with myself,
I have acquired a taste for travelling. Forgive my having taken the liberty to counsel you, charming
Corinne, and believe me ever devoted to you! "-- Corinne thanked him, and separated with a sentiment
of regret. Her acquaintance with him commenced at the same time as with Oswald, and this remembrance
formed a tie between them which she did not like to see broken. She conducted herself agreeably
to what she had declared to the Count. Some uneasiness disturbed for
a moment the joy with which Lord Nelville had accepted the project of the
journey.

He feared that their departure for Naples might injure Corinne, and wished to obtain her secret
before they went, in order to know with certainty whether some invincible obstacle to their union
might not exist; but she declared to him that she would not relate her history till they arrived
at Naples, and sweetly deceived him, as to what the public opinion would be on her conduct.
Oswald yielded to the illusion. In a weak and undecided character, love half deceives, reason half enlightens,
and it is the present emotion that decides which of the two halves shall be the whole. The mind of
Lord Nelville was singularly expansive and penetrating; but he only formed a correct judgment
of himself in reviewing his past conduct. He never had but a confused idea of his present
situation. Susceptible at once of transport and remorse, of passion and timidity, those contrasts
did not permit him to know himself till the event had decided the combat that was taking place
within him. When the friends of Corinne, particularly Prince Castel-Forte, were informed of her
project, they felt considerably chagrined. Prince Castel-Forte was so much pained at it, that he resolved
in a short time to go and join her. There was certainly no vanity in thus filling up the train
of a favoured lover; but he could not support the dreadful void which
he would find in the absence of Corinne.

He had no acquaintances but the circle he met at her house; and he never entered any other.
The company which assembled around her would disperse when she should be no longer there; and it
would be impossible to collect together the fragments. Untamed Thought,
great, giantlike, enormous;--to be tamed in due time into the compact greatness, not giantlike,
but godlike and stronger than gianthood, of the Shakspeares, the Goethes!--Spiritually as well
as bodily these men are our progenitors.

I like, too, that representation they have of the tree Igdrasil. All Life is figured by them
as a Tree. Igdrasil, the Ash-tree of Existence, has its roots deep down in the kingdoms of
Hela or Death; its trunk reaches up heaven-high, spreads its boughs over the whole Universe:
it is the Tree of Existence. At the foot of it, in the Death-kingdom, sit Three Nornas, Fates,--the
Past, Present, Future; watering its roots from the Sacred Well. Its "boughs," with their buddings
and disleafings?--events, things suffered, things done, catastrophes,--stretch through all
lands and times. Is not every leaf of it a biography, every fibre there an act or word? Its
boughs are Histories of Nations. The rustle of it is the noise of Human Existence, onwards
from of old. It grows there, the breath of Human Passion rustling through it;--or storm tost,
the storm-wind howling through it like the voice of all the gods. It is Igdrasil, the Tree
of Existence. It is the past, the present, and the future; what was done, what is doing, what
will be done; "the infinite conjugation of the verb To do." Considering how human things circulate,
each inextricably in communion with all,--how the word I speak to you to-day is borrowed, not
from Ulfila the Moesogoth only, but from all men since the first man began to speak,--I find
no similitude so true as this of a Tree. Beautiful; altogether beautiful and great. The "Machine
of the Universe,"--alas, do but think of that in contrast!

Well, it is strange enough this old Norse view of Nature; different enough from what we believe
of Nature. Whence it specially came, one would not like to be compelled to say very minutely!
One thing we may say: It came from the thoughts of Norse men;--from the thought, above all,
of the first Norse man who had an original power of thinking. The First Norse "man of genius,"
as we should call him! Innumerable men had passed by, across this Universe, with a dumb vague
wonder, such as the very animals may feel; or with a painful, fruitlessly inquiring wonder,
such as men only feel;--till the great Thinker came, the original man, the Seer; whose shaped
spoken Thought awakes the slumbering capability of all into Thought. It is ever the way with
the Thinker, the spiritual Hero. What he says, all men were not far from saying, were longing
to say. The Thoughts of all start up, as from painful enchanted sleep, round his Thought; answering
to it, Yes, even so! Joyful to men as the dawning of day from night;--is it not, indeed, the
awakening for them from no-being into being, from death into life? We still honor such a man;
call him Poet, Genius, and so forth: but to these wild men he was a very magician, a worker
of miraculous unexpected blessing for them; a Prophet, a God!--Thought once awakened does not
again slumber; unfolds itself into a System of Thought; grows, in man after man, generation
after generation,--till its full stature is reached, and such System of Thought can grow no
farther; but must give place to another.

For the Norse people, the Man now named Odin, and Chief Norse God, we fancy, was such a man.
A Teacher, and Captain of soul and of body; a Hero, of worth immeasurable; admiration for whom,
transcending the known bounds, became adoration. Has he not the power of articulate Thinking;
and many other powers, as yet miraculous? So, with boundless gratitude, would the rude Norse
heart feel. Has he not solved for them the sphinx-enigma of this Universe; given assurance
to them of their own destiny there? By him they know now what they have to do here, what to
look for hereafter. Existence has become articulate, melodious by him; he first has made Life
alive!--We may call this Odin, the origin of Norse Mythology: Odin, or whatever name the First
Norse Thinker bore while he was a man among men. His view of the Universe once promulgated,
a like view starts into being in all minds; grows, keeps ever growing, while it continues credible
there. In all minds it lay written, but invisibly, as in sympathetic ink; at his word it starts
into visibility in all. Nay, in every epoch of the world, the great event, parent of all others,
is it not the arrival of a Thinker in the world--!

One other thing we must not forget; it will explain, a little, the confusion of these Norse
Eddas. They are not one coherent System of Thought; but properly the summation of several successive
systems. All this of the old Norse Belief which is flung out for us, in one level of distance
in the Edda, like a picture painted on the same canvas, does not at all stand so in the reality.
It stands rather at all manner of distances and depths, of successive generations since the
Belief first began. All Scandinavian thinkers, since the first of them, contributed to that
Scandinavian System of Thought; in ever-new elaboration and addition, it is the combined work
of them all. What history it had, how it changed from shape to shape, by one thinker's contribution
after another, till it got to the full final shape we see it under in the Edda, no man will
now ever know: its Councils of Trebizond, Councils of Trent, Athanasiuses, Dantes, Luthers,
are sunk without echo in the dark night! Only that it had such a history we can all know. Wheresover
a thinker appeared, there in the thing he thought of was a contribution, accession, a change
or revolution made. Alas, the grandest "revolution" of all, the one made by the man Odin himself,
is not this too sunk for us like the rest! Of Odin what history? Strange rather to reflect
that he had a history! That this Odin, in his wild Norse vesture, with his wild beard and eyes,
his rude Norse speech and ways, was a man like us; with our sorrows, joys, with our limbs,
features;--intrinsically all one as we: and did such a work! But the work, much of it, has
perished; the worker, all to the name. "Wednesday," men will say to-morrow; Odin's day! Of
Odin there exists no history; no document of it; no guess about it worth repeating.

Snorro indeed, in the quietest manner, almost in a brief business style, writes down, in his
Heimskringla, how Odin was a heroic Prince, in the Black-Sea region, with Twelve Peers, and
a great people straitened for room. How he led these Asen (Asiatics) of his out of Asia; settled
them in the North parts of Europe, by warlike conquest; invented Letters, Poetry and so forth,--and
came by and by to be worshipped as Chief God by these Scandinavians, his Twelve Peers made
into Twelve Sons of his own, Gods like himself: Snorro has no doubt of this. Saxo Grammaticus,
a very curious Northman of that same century, is still more unhesitating; scruples not to find
out a historical fact in every individual mythus, and writes it down as a terrestrial event
in Denmark or elsewhere. Torfaeus, learned and cautious, some centuries later, assigns by calculation
a date for it: Odin, he says, came into Europe about the Year 70 before Christ. Of all which,
as grounded on mere uncertainties, found to be untenable now, I need say nothing. Far, very
far beyond the Year 70! Odin's date, adventures, whole terrestrial history, figure and environment
are sunk from us forever into unknown thousands of years.

Nay Grimm, the German Antiquary, goes so far as to deny that any man Odin ever existed. He
proves it by etymology. The word Wuotan, which is the original form of Odin, a word spread,
as name of their chief Divinity, over all the Teutonic Nations everywhere; this word, which
connects itself, according to Grimm, with the Latin vadere, with the English wade and such
like,--means primarily Movement, Source of Movement, Power; and is the fit name of the highest
god, not of any man. The word signifies Divinity, he says, among the old Saxon, German and
all Teutonic Nations; the adjectives formed from it all signify divine, supreme, or something
pertaining to the chief god. Like enough! We must bow to Grimm in matters etymological. Let
us consider it fixed that Wuotan means Wading, force of Movement. And now still, what hinders
it from being the name of a Heroic Man and Mover, as well as of a god? As for the adjectives,
and words formed from it,--did not the Spaniards in their universal admiration for Lope, get
into the habit of saying "a Lope flower," "a Lope dama," if the flower or woman were of surpassing
beauty? Had this lasted, Lope would have grown, in Spain, to be an adjective signifying godlike
also. Indeed, Adam Smith, in his Essay on Language, surmises that all adjectives whatsoever
were formed precisely in that way: some very green thing, chiefly notable for its greenness,
got the appellative name Green, and then the next thing remarkable for that quality, a tree
for instance, was named the green tree,--as we still say "the steam coach," "four-horse coach,"
or the like. Wherefore, I strictly enjoin that none of you shall remove from Cochin, and I swear
by all that is holy in our faith, that whoever is detected in the attempt shall be instantly
hanged. It is my determined purpose to remain here, and to have the port strictly watched day
and night that none of you may escape. Let every one of you, therefore, look well to his conduct,
and be assured, if you do as I require, you shall have me for your friend; but if otherwise,
I shall be your mortal enemy, and shall use you worse even than the
zamorin.

"The Moors endeavoured to clear themselves from what had been alleged against them, but Pacheco would
not listen to their excuses, and departed from them in anger, and immediately brought his ship
and one of the caravels with two boats, which he anchored directly opposite the city of Cochin,
with strict charges to let no one leave the city by water. He likewise appointed a number of paraws
to guard all the creeks and rivers around the city; and ordered every boat that could transport
men or goods to be brought every night under the guns of his ships, and returned to their owners
in the morning. In consequence of all these precautions, the people of Cochin were so much afraid
of him, that not one of the Moors or Malabars dared to leave the city without his permission,
and henceforwards continued quiet. Notwithstanding all these cares, Pacheco used to make nightly
invasions into the island of Repelim, where he burnt the towns, slew the inhabitants, and
carried away much cattle and many paraws; on which account the Moors of Cochin, astonished
that he could endure so much fatigue, gave out that he was the devil.

Mean time the zamorin collected his forces in the island of Repelim, where he was joined by the lords
of Tanor, Bespur, Kotugan, Korin, and many other Malabar chiefs,
making altogether an army of 50,000 men.

Four thousand of these were appointed to serve by water, in 280 vessels, called paraws, katurs,
and tonys; with 382 pieces of cannon intended to batter the Portuguese fort at Cochin; and the
rest of the troops were appointed to force a passage across the ford of the river, under the
command of Naubea Daring, nephew and heir to the zamorin, and Elankol,
the lord of Repelim [1].

Intelligence
of all this was conveyed to Cochin, and that the zamorin proposed to invade that city by the straits
of Cambalan. Rodrigo Reynel, who sent this intelligence by letter, lay then very sick and died
soon after, on which the zamorin caused all his goods to be seized. On the approach of the zamorin,
the Moors of Cochin would very willingly have induced the inhabitants to run away, but durst not
venture to do so from the fear they were in of Pacheco. He, on the contrary, that all might
know how little he esteemed the zamorin and all his power, made a descent one night on one
of the towns of Repelim, to which he set fire. But on the coming up of a great number of armed
naires, he was forced to retreat in great danger to his boats, having
five of his men wounded, after killing and wounding a great number
of the enemy.

On their return to Cochin, the targets of our men were all stuck full of arrows, so great was
the multitude of the enemies who had assailed them. The rajah came to visit Pacheco at the castle
on his return from this enterprize, and expressed his satisfaction at his success, which he
considered as a mighty affair, especially as the zamorin and so great an army was in the island.
Pacheco made light of the zamorin and all his force, saying that he anxiously wished he would
come and give battle, as he was not at all afraid of the consequences, trusting to the superior
valour of his own men.

As the people of Cochin remained quiet, Pacheco now prepared for defending the pass of Cambalan.
Leaving therefore a sufficient force to guard the castle, and twenty-five men in the caravel
under the command of Diego Pereira to protect the city and watch the conduct of the Moors,
taking with himself seventy-three men in one of the caravels and several armed boats, he departed
for Cambalan on Friday the 16th of April 1504 [2]. On passing the city, Pacheco landed to speak with
the rajah, whom he found in evident anxiety; but making as if he did not observe his heaviness,
Pacheco addressed him with a cheerful countenance, saying that he was just setting out to
defend him against the zamorin, of whom he had no fear of giving a good account. After some
conference, the rajah ordered 500 of his naires, out of 3000 who were in his service, to join
Pacheco, under the command of Gandagora and Frangera the overseers of his household, and the
caymal of Palurta, whom he directed to obey Pacheco in all things as if he were himself present.
On taking leave of Pacheco, while he exhorted him to use his utmost efforts for defending Cochin
against the zamorin, he desired him to be careful of his own safety,
on which so much depended.

Pacheco
arrived at the passage of Cambalan two hours before day, and seeing no appearance of the zamorins
approach, he made an attack on a town on the coast of the island
about the dawn, which was defended by 300 naires, all archers, and
a small number armed with calivers, or match-locks, all of whom were
embarked in certain paraws, and endeavoured to defend the entrance
of the harbour.

They were soon constrained by the cannon of the Portuguese to push for the shore and quit their
paraws, but resisted all attempts of the Portuguese to land for near an hour, when they were
completely defeated after losing a great many of their number, killed or wounded, and our men set
the town on fire. Having taken a considerable number of cattle at this place, which he carried
off with him, Pacheco returned to defend the pass of Cambalan. At this time the zamorin sent
a message to Pacheco, offering him a handsome present, and proposing a treaty for a peace between
them: but Pacheco refused accepting the present, and declared he would never make peace with
him while he continued at enmity with the rajah of Cochin. Next day, the zamorin sent a second
message, proudly challenging him for daring to obstruct his passage
into the island of Cochin, and offering him battle, declaring his
resolution to make him a prisoner, if he were not slain in the battle.

To this Pacheco made answer, that he hoped to do the same thing with the zamorin, in honour of
the day which was a solemn festival among the Christians, and that the zamorin was much deceived
by his sorcerers when they promised him the victory on such a day. Then one of the naires
who accompanied the messenger, said smiling as if in contempt, that he had few men to perform
so great an exploit; whereas the forces of the zamorin covered both the land and the water, and
could not possibly be overcome by such a handful. Pacheco ordered this man to be well bastinadoed
for his insolence, and bid him desire the zamorin to revenge his
quarrel if he could.

That same evening, the rajah of Cochin sent a farther reinforcement to Pacheco of 500 naires,
of whom he made no account, neither of these who were with him before, believing they would
all run away; his sole reliance, under God, was on his own men, who feasted themselves that night,
that the zamorin might learn how much they despised all his threats, and how eager they were for
battle. Early next morning, Pacheco made a short speech to his men, exhorting them, to behave
valiantly for the glory of the Christian name and the honour of their country, and promising
them an assured victory with the assistance of God; by which their fame would be so established
among the natives that they would be feared and respected ever after. He likewise set before them
the rewards they might assuredly expect from their own sovereign, if they behaved gallantly
on the present occasion. His men immediately answered him that they hoped in the ensuing battle
to evince how well they remembered his exhortations. They all then knelt down and sung the salve
regina, and afterwards an Ave Maria, with a loud voice. Just at this time, Laurenço Moreno
joined Pacheco with four of his men armed with calivers, who were all anxious to be present
in the battle, and of whose arrival the general was extremely glad, as he knew them to be
valiant soldiers.

In the course of the night, by the advice of the Italian lapidaries who had deserted to the enemy,
the zamorin caused a sconce or battery to be erected directly over against the place where
Pacheco was stationed, on which five pieces of ordnance were placed, from which great service was
expected in the ensuing battle, owing to the narrowness of the pass. On the morning of Palm Sunday,
the zamorin marched forwards with 47,000 men, partly naires and part
Moors, and accompanied by all the rajahs and caymals who had joined
him in this war.

Of these, the rajah of Tanor had 4000 naires; the rajahs of Bybur and Curran, whose countries
lay near the mountains of Narsinga, had 12,000 naires; the rajah of Cotogataco, which is between
Cochin and Cananor close beside the mountains, had 18,000 naires; the rajah of Curia, which is
between Paniani and Cranganor, had 3000 naires. Naubea Daring, the prince of Calicut, and his
brother Namboa, who were particularly attached to that part of the army composed of the zamorins
immediate subjects, had a large body of men whose numbers I do not particularize. Their warlike
instruments were many and of divers sorts, and made a noise as if heaven and earth were coming
together.

Before day, the van of this prodigious army arrived at the sconce of the Italians, and began
immediately to play off their ordnance against the caravel, which was so near that it was an
absolute miracle that not a single shot did any harm. But our cannon were better served, and
every shot did execution among the enemy: and so well did they ply
their guns, that before sunrise above thirty discharges were made
from our caravel.

At day-break, the whole of the enemies fleet, consisting of 169 barks, came out of the rivers
of the island of Repelim to attack our small force. Sixty-six of these were paraws, having their
sides defended with bags of cotton by advice of the Italians, to ward off our shot; and each
of these had twenty-five men and two pieces of ordnance, five of the men in each paraw being
armed with calivers or matchlocks. Twenty of the foysts or large barks were chained together,
as a floating battery to assault the caravel; besides which, there were fifty-three catures and
thirty large barks, each of which carried sixteen men and one piece of ordnance, besides other
weapons.

Besides all these armed vessels, there were a great many more filled with soldiers, so that the whole
river seemed entirely covered over. Of this numerous fleet, which contained near 10, 000 men,
Naubea Daring was admiral or commander in chief, and the lord of Repelim vice-admiral. All these advanced
against the Portuguese, setting up terrible shouts, which was answered alternately by sounding
all their military instruments of music. The whole of these people were almost naked, having
targets of various colours, and made a very gallant appearance. On the approach of this prodigious
fleet, our caravel and boats were hardly discernible, so completely did the enemy cover the face
of the water. Terrified by so prodigious a multitude, the naires of Cochin all ran away, only
Grandagora and Frangora remaining, who were on board the caravel, or they would have done like
the rest. Indeed their presence was of no importance, except to serve as witnesses of the valour
of our men.

Our people plied their ordnance and small arms so incessantly that
the air was quite darkened with smoke, and as the boats of the enemy
were very numerous and without order, they hindered each other, and
our fire did prodigious execution among them, several of their paraws
being torn to pieces and great numbers of their men killed and wounded,
without any hurt on our side.

The twenty-five paraws [3] which were chained together were now brought forwards, and gave much
annoyance to our men, who were now likewise much fatigued, as the battle had continued a long
time. The captain-general gave orders to fire off a saker, [4] which had not been, hitherto
used during the battle. By the time this had been twice fired, it did such terrible execution
among the thick of the enemy as to sink four of their paraws, and all the others made the best of
their way out of the battle, eighteen of the paraws being sunk in all, and vast numbers of
the enemy slain and wounded. On the defeat of this squadron, which was commanded by Prince Naubea Daring,
Elankol, the lord of Repelim, who was vice-admiral, came forward with a fresh squadron, and
gave a proud onset, commanding his paraws to lay the caravel on board; but the Malabars had
not resolution to put this order into execution, and held off at some distance. The zamorin also
approached with the land army, doing his utmost to force the passage of the ford; but all
their efforts were in vain, although this second battle was more fiercely urged than the first.
Though the battle continued from daybreak to almost sunset, the enemy were able to make no impression,
and were known to have lost 350 men slain outright, besides others, which were above 1000. [5]
Some of our men were wounded, but none slain; for the balls of the
enemy, though of cast iron, had no more effect than as many stones
thrown by hand.

Yet our barricades of defence were all torn to pieces, and one of our boats was very much damaged,
which was entirely repaired during the night.

The rajahs and other chiefs who were allied with the zamorin, lost all hope of ever being able
to get the victory over the Portuguese, and were sorry for having joined in the war so greatly
to their own dishonour. Being afraid the captain-general might burn and destroy their towns
and houses, which were all situated on the banks of rivers, they were anxious to leave the army
of the zamorin, and to give over making war on the Portuguese.

Some among them withdrew privately from the camp of the zamorin to the island of Vaipi with all their
men, and reconciled themselves with the rajah of Cochin: These were Maraguta, Muta Caymal, his
brother and cousins. The zamorin was exceedingly mortified by the discomfiture of his people,
and severely reprimanded his chiefs for their pusillanimous conduct, in allowing themselves to
be defeated by such a handful of men. The two Italian deserters, while they acknowledged the
valour of the Portuguese in the late action, represented that it would be impossible for them to continue
to bear up long against such vast odds without reinforcements, and recommended the frequent
reiteration of assaults, under which they must necessarily be at last overthrown. All those
rajahs and chiefs who were for continuing the war, joined in opinion with the Italians. The zamorin
made a speech, in which he recapitulated the defeats they had sustained and the defection of
some of his allies, who had entered into treaty with the rajah of Cochin. He stated how short
a period of the summer now remained for continuing the operations of the war, which must soon be
laid aside during the storms and rain of the winter season, when it was impossible to keep the
field; and that, on the conclusion of winter, a new fleet would come from Portugal with powerful
reinforcements to the enemy, who would then be able to carry the war as formerly into his dominions,
to their utter loss and destruction. He concluded by giving his opinion that it was necessary
for him to make peace with the Christians. Naubea Daring, the prince of Calicut, made a long
speech, in which he defended the Portuguese against the imputation thrown upon them by the
Moors of their being thieves and pirates. Snorro tells us they thought
it a shame and misery not to die in battle; and if natural death seemed to be coming on, they
would cut wounds in their flesh, that Odin might receive them as warriors slain. Old kings,
about to die, had their body laid into a ship; the ship sent forth, with sails set and slow
fire burning it; that, once out at sea, it might blaze up in flame, and in such manner bury
worthily the old hero, at once in the sky and in the ocean! Wild bloody valor; yet valor of
its kind; better, I say, than none. In the old Sea-kings too, what an indomitable rugged energy!
Silent, with closed lips, as I fancy them, unconscious that they were specially brave; defying
the wild ocean with its monsters, and all men and things;--progenitors of our own Blakes and
Nelsons! No Homer sang these Norse Sea-kings; but Agamemnon's was a small audacity, and of
small fruit in the world, to some of them;--to Hrolf's of Normandy, for instance! Hrolf, or
Rollo Duke of Normandy, the wild Sea-king, has a share in governing England at this hour.

Nor was it altogether nothing, even that wild sea-roving and battling, through so many generations.
It needed to be ascertained which was the strongest kind of men; who were to be ruler over
whom. Among the Northland Sovereigns, too, I find some who got the title Wood-cutter; Forest-felling
Kings. Much lies in that. I suppose at bottom many of them were forest-fellers as well as fighters,
though the Skalds talk mainly of the latter,--misleading certain critics not a little; for
no nation of men could ever live by fighting alone; there could not produce enough come out
of that! I suppose the right good fighter was oftenest also the right good forest-feller,--the
right good improver, discerner, doer and worker in every kind; for true valor, different enough
from ferocity, is the basis of all. A more legitimate kind of valor that; showing itself against
the untamed Forests and dark brute Powers of Nature, to conquer Nature for us. In the same
direction have not we their descendants since carried it far? May such valor last forever with us!

That the man Odin, speaking with a Hero's voice and heart, as with an impressiveness out of
Heaven, told his People the infinite importance of Valor, how man thereby became a god; and
that his People, feeling a response to it in their own hearts, believed this message of his,
and thought it a message out of Heaven, and him a Divinity for telling it them: this seems
to me the primary seed-grain of the Norse Religion, from which all manner of mythologies, symbolic
practices, speculations, allegories, songs and sagas would naturally grow. Grow,--how strangely!
I called it a small light shining and shaping in the huge vortex of Norse darkness. Yet the
darkness itself was alive; consider that. It was the eager inarticulate uninstructed Mind of
the whole Norse People, longing only to become articulate, to go on articulating ever farther!
The living doctrine grows, grows;--like a Banyan-tree; the first seed is the essential thing:
any branch strikes itself down into the earth, becomes a new root; and so, in endless complexity,
we have a whole wood, a whole jungle, one seed the parent of it all. Was not the whole Norse
Religion, accordingly, in some sense, what we called "the enormous shadow of this man's likeness"?
Critics trace some affinity in some Norse mythuses, of the Creation and such like, with those
of the Hindoos. The Cow Adumbla, "licking the rime from the rocks," has a kind of Hindoo look.
A Hindoo Cow, transported into frosty countries. Probably enough; indeed we may say undoubtedly,
these things will have a kindred with the remotest lands, with the earliest times. Thought
does not die, but only is changed. The first man that began to think in this Planet of ours,
he was the beginner of all. And then the second man, and the third man;--nay, every true Thinker
to this hour is a kind of Odin, teaches men his way of thought, spreads a shadow of his own
likeness over sections of the History of the World.

Of the distinctive poetic character or merit of this Norse Mythology I have not room to speak;
nor does it concern us much. Some wild Prophecies we have, as the Voluspa in the Elder Edda;
of a rapt, earnest, sibylline sort. But they were comparatively an idle adjunct of the matter,
men who as it were but toyed with the matter, these later Skalds; and it is their songs chiefly
that survive. In later centuries, I suppose, they would go on singing, poetically symbolizing,
as our modern Painters paint, when it was no longer from the innermost heart, or not from the
heart at all. This is everywhere to be well kept in mind.

Gray's fragments of Norse Lore, at any rate, will give one no notion of it;--any more than
Pope will of Homer. It is no square-built gloomy palace of black ashlar marble, shrouded in
awe and horror, as Gray gives it us: no; rough as the North rocks, as the Iceland deserts,
it is; with a heartiness, homeliness, even a tint of good humor and robust mirth in the middle
of these fearful things. The strong old Norse heart did not go upon theatrical sublimities;
they had not time to tremble. I like much their robust simplicity; their veracity, directness
of conception. Thor "draws down his brows" in a veritable Norse rage; "grasps his hammer till
the knuckles grow white." Beautiful traits of pity too, an honest pity. Balder "the white God"
dies; the beautiful, benignant; he is the Sungod. They try all Nature for a remedy; but he
is dead. Frigga, his mother, sends Hermoder to seek or see him: nine days and nine nights he
rides through gloomy deep valleys, a labyrinth of gloom; arrives at the Bridge with its gold
roof: the Keeper says, "Yes, Balder did pass here; but the Kingdom of the Dead is down yonder,
far towards the North." Hermoder rides on; leaps Hell-gate, Hela's gate; does see Balder, and
speak with him: Balder cannot be delivered. Inexorable! Hela will not, for Odin or any God,
give him up. The beautiful and gentle has to remain there. His Wife had volunteered to go with
him, to die with him. They shall forever remain there. He sends his ring to Odin; Nanna his
wife sends her thimble to Frigga, as a remembrance.--Ah me--!

For indeed Valor is the fountain of Pity too;--of Truth, and all that is great and good in
man. The robust homely vigor of the Norse heart attaches one much, in these delineations. Is
it not a trait of right honest strength, says Uhland, who has written a fine Essay on Thor,
that the old Norse heart finds its friend in the Thunder-god? That it is not frightened away
by his thunder; but finds that Summer-heat, the beautiful noble summer, must and will have
thunder withal! The Norse heart loves this Thor and his hammer-bolt; sports with him. Thor
is Summer-heat: the god of Peaceable Industry as well as Thunder. He is the Peasant's friend;
his true henchman and attendant is Thialfi, Manual Labor. Thor himself engages in all manner
of rough manual work, scorns no business for its plebeianism; is ever and anon travelling to
the country of the Jotuns, harrying those chaotic Frost-monsters, subduing them, at least straitening
and damaging them. There is a great broad humor in some of these things.

Thor, as we saw above, goes to Jotun-land, to seek Hymir's Caldron, that the Gods may brew
beer. Hymir the huge Giant enters, his gray beard all full of hoar-frost; splits pillars with
the very glance of his eye; Thor, after much rough tumult, snatches the Pot, claps it on his
head; the "handles of it reach down to his heels." The Norse Skald has a kind of loving sport
with Thor. This is the Hymir whose cattle, the critics have discovered, are Icebergs. Huge
untutored Brobdignag genius,--needing only to be tamed down; into Shakspeares, Dantes, Goethes!
It is all gone now, that old Norse work,--Thor the Thunder-god changed into Jack the Giant-killer:
but the mind that made it is here yet. How strangely things grow, and die, and do not die!
There are twigs of that great world-tree of Norse Belief still curiously traceable. This poor
Jack of the Nursery, with his miraculous shoes of swiftness, coat of darkness, sword of sharpness,
he is one. Hynde Etin, and still more decisively Red Etin of Ireland, in the Scottish Ballads,
these are both derived from Norseland; Etin is evidently a Jotun. Nay, Shakspeare's Hamlet
is a twig too of this same world-tree; there seems no doubt of that. Hamlet, Amleth I find,
is really a mythic personage; and his Tragedy, of the poisoned Father, poisoned asleep by drops
in his ear, and the rest, is a Norse mythus! Old Saxo, as his wont was, made it a Danish history;
Shakspeare, out of Saxo, made it what we see. That is a twig of the world-tree that has grown,
I think;--by nature or accident that one has grown!

In fact, these old Norse songs have a truth in them, an inward perennial truth and greatness,--as,
indeed, all must have that can very long preserve itself by tradition alone. There is a sublime
uncomplaining melancholy traceable in these old hearts. A great free glance into the very deeps
of thought. They seem to have seen, these brave old Northmen, what Meditation has taught all
men in all ages, That this world is after all but a show,--a phenomenon or appearance, no real
thing. All deep souls see into that,--the Hindoo Mythologist, the German Philosopher,--the
Shakspeare, the earnest Thinker, wherever he may be:

     "We are such stuff as Dreams are made of!"

One of Thor's expeditions, to Utgard (the Outer Garden, central seat of Jotun-land), is remarkable
in this respect. Thialfi was with him, and Loke. After various adventures, they entered upon
Giant-land; wandered over plains, wild uncultivated places, among stones and trees. At nightfall
they noticed a house; and as the door, which indeed formed one whole side of the house, was
open, they entered. It was a simple habitation; one large hall, altogether empty. They stayed
there. Suddenly in the dead of the night loud noises alarmed them. Thor grasped his hammer;
stood in the door, prepared for fight. His companions within ran hither and thither in their
terror, seeking some outlet in that rude hall; they found a little closet at last, and took
refuge there. Neither had Thor any battle: for, lo, in the morning it turned out that the noise
had been only the snoring of a certain enormous but peaceable Giant, the Giant Skrymir, who
lay peaceably sleeping near by; and this that they took for a house was merely his Glove, thrown
aside there; the door was the Glove-wrist; the little closet they had fled into was the Thumb! But
whoever had lured him here easily could have removed her from one of the vessels in the front
cave.

It did not seem like the work of pirates, more likely unknown intelligent
beings.

He turned to examine the televisor. It, too, was an earth product. The mechanism was of old design;
evidently it had been taken from the first of the ships to land here. Outside of the telecaster
and the solitary robot, there was nothing to be seen in this cave.

A sound behind him. He whirled, heat-rod poised for swift, stabbing action. Nothing-- except-- small
bowling-ball things rolling in through a narrow door. Ridiculous things of the same yellowish-quartz
material as composed the cave-walls. At regular intervals a dull, bluish light poured forth from
rounded holes in their smooth sides. And issuing forth from within these comic globes was the
same weird, compelling music he had heard before. They rolled up to him, brushed against his
toes; a shrilling in his brain told him that Digger was aware of
them.

"Back, Digger!" he thought as he drew away from the globes. They poured their penetrating blue
light over him, inspectingly, while the music from within rose and fell in regular cadences,
sweetly impelling and dulling to the senses as strong oriental incense.

But Digger was not soothed. The spacehound lunged at one of the globes; instead of slashing its
sides, he found himself sailing through the air toward it. Nat received impressions of irritation
combined with astonishment. Within the globes, the music rose to a furious whine while one of the
things shot forth long tentacles from the holes in its side. Lightning-swift they shot forth, wrapped themselves
about the body of the spacehound, constricting. Digger writhed vainly, his claws powerless
to tear at the whip-like tentacles. Nat severed the tentacles at
their base with the heat-beam.

He
turned, strode toward the door watching the spheres apprehensively out of the corner of his eye,
ready to jump aside should they roll toward him suddenly. But they followed at respectful distances,
singing softly.

Before he reached the door, he found himself walking in rhythm to the music, his head swaying.
It came slowly, insidiously; before he was aware, his body no longer
obeyed his will.

Muscles refused to move other than in coordination with the music. His arm relaxed, the heat-rod
sliding from his grasp.***** But Digger!

The spacehound sent out a barrage of vibrations that fairly rocked
his brain out of his skull.

Simultaneously, the beast attacked the nearest globes, tearing fiercely at them. Rapidly the
others rolled away, but two lay torn and motionless, the music within
them stilled.

Nat reached down, retrieved the heat-rod. "I think we'd better look
for a'squeaker'.

Next
time they might get you, Digger." They returned to the room of the spaceships, seeking one of the
small, portable radio-amplifiers used for searching out radium.

It was known as a "squeaker" because of the constant din it made while in use; the noise would cease
only when radium was within a hundred feet of the mechanism. He found one after searching
a few of the smaller ships. With the portable radio strapped to his back, power switched on, he started
again down the main tunnel.

The globes set up their seductive rhythms as before, but he could not hear them above the
discord of his squeaker. Failing to lure him as before, they sought to force him in the direction
they desired him to go by darting at him suddenly, lashing him with
their tentacles.

But it was a simple thing to elude them. Still remained the question: why could they want to
lure him into that stinking pool of acid? He flashed a beam of heat at the nearest of the annoying
globes. Under the released energy it glowed, yet did not melt. But the tentacles sheared off
and the blue lights faded.

The flow of music changed to shrill whines as of pain and its rolling ceased. The others drew
back; he turned down another tunnel. They stopped at the cave beyond the one where he had found
the robot-girl. It was sealed by a locked door, one of the airlock-doors from that space vessel,
firmly cemented into the natural opening of the cave.

Nat bent forward, listening, his helmeted head pressed against the door. No sound. He was suddenly
aware of the dead silence that pressed in on him from all sides now that the globes no longer sang
and his "squeaker" had been turned off.

The powerful energy of his heat-beam sputtered as it melted the lock into incandescent droplets which
sizzled as they trickled down the cold metal of the door. The greasy, quartz-like material at
the side of the door glowed in the heat from his rod, but no visible effect upon it could be
seen. What was that material? He knew, yes, he knew-- but he could not place a mental finger
on it.

He thrust the shoulder of his good arm against the heavy door, swung it inwards, stepped
inside. The light of his torch pierced the silence, picked out a human skeleton in one corner.
He hurried toward it-- no, it was not entirely a skeleton as yet.

The flesh and bone had been eaten away from the lower part of the body to halfway up the hips, as
though from some strong acid. The rest of the large, sturdy frame lay sunken under the remains of
a spacesuit which was tied clumsily around the middle to retain all
the air possible in the upper half of it.

Evidently some acid had eaten away the lower half of the man's body after he had suffocated. The
face was that of a Norwegian. By one outstretched hand a small notebook lay open with the leather
back upward. The corners of several pages were turned under carelessly-- Nat swung the torch around
the room. It was bare. The notebook-- quickly he picked it up. The page on which the writing
began was dated May 10, 2040. About two months ago.

"Helmar Swenson. My daughter, Helena, aged nineteen, and I were lured into the maw of this hellish
monster by a robot calling for help in our television screen. This thing, known to man as
Asteroid Moira, is, in actuality, one of the gigantic mineral creatures which inhabited a planet
before it exploded, forming the asteroids.

Somehow it survived the catastrophe, and, forming a hard, crustaceous
shell about itself, has continued to live here in space as an asteroid."

It is apparently highly intelligent and has acquired an appetite for human flesh. The singing
spheres act as its sensory organs, separated from the body and given locomotion. It uses these
to lure victims into its stomach in the first cave. I escaped its lure at first because of the'squeaker'I
carried with me.

We set up these two doors as a protection from the beast while we stayed here to examine it. But the monster
got me when I fell and the'squeaker'was broken.

My daughter rescued me after the acid of the pool had begun eating away my flesh. "My Helena is
locked in the room opposite this one. She has food and water to last until July 8th. Oxygen seeps
in there somehow-- the beast wants to keep her alive until it can get her out of the room to
devour her."

Here the writing became more cramped and difficult to read. "I have put the key in my mouth
to prevent the spheres from opening the door should they force their way into this room. Some
one must come to save my Helena. I can't breathe--"

The writing ended in a long scrawl angling off the page. The pencil lay some distance from the body. July
8th! But that had been almost a week ago!***** He unscrewed the man's helmet, tried to pry the
jaws open.

They would not move; the airless void surrounding the tiny planetoid
had frozen the body until now it was as solid as the quartz cave-walls.

There was but one thing to do: the other door must be melted down. He leaped halfway across the
room toward the door in the opposite wall. Could it be possible that
he was in time?

Anxiously he flung a bolt of energy from his heat rod toward the lock, holding a flashlight
under the other stump of an arm.

The molten metal flowed to the floor like a rivulet of lava.

The door, hanging off balance, screeched open; air swooshed past
him in its sudden escape from the room.

He squeezed himself through, peered carefully about to see a slim spacesuit start to crumple floorward in a
corner. The girl was alive! He started toward her; the slim figure pulled itself erect again. He
saw a drawn, emaciated face behind the helmet.

Then, with a fury that unnerved him, she whipped out a heat rod, shot a searing bolt in his direction.
He felt the fierce heat of it as it whizzed past his shoulder; in his brain Digger's thoughts
of attack came to him, he flung an arm around the spacehound, dragged it back as he withdrew toward
the door.

The girl continued to fire bolt after bolt straight ahead, her eyes wide and staring. They made
the door, waited outside while the firing within continued. When at last it was still within,
he peered around the corner of the room.

She lay in a crumpled heap in the corner; quietly he re-entered, picked her up awkwardly. Through
the thin, resistant folds of the spacesuit, he could feel the warmth of her, but could not tell
whether the heart still beat or not. They would have to take her to one of the ships. Her limp form
was held tightly under his good arm as Nat hurried down the main tunnel. Digger apparently
realized the seriousness of the situation, for he received impressions of "must hurry" from
the beast and another creature, looking much like him, surrounded
by small creatures of the same type, trapped in a crevice.

"Aren't you a bit premature, old fellow," he chided.

Halfway there, the globes met them again. The things were not singing; from their many eyes poured
a fierce, angry blue light. They rolled with a determination that frightened him. Yet he strode
on, until they were barely a foot away. "Jump, Digger!" The spheres stopped short, reversed their
direction toward the little group at a furious rate, flinging out
long, whip-like tentacles.

One wrapped itself around Nat's ankle, drew him down. He shifted the limp form over to his shoulder, slipped
out his heat-rod. Quickly the tentacle was severed. But now others took their place; he continued
firing at them, making each bolt tell, but the numbers were too great. Digger sprang into action,
rending the globes with those claws that were capable of tearing
the hulls of spaceships.

But tentacles lashed around him from the rear, snaked about him so that he was helpless. The
girl was slipping off Nat's shoulder. He could not raise the stump of an arm to balance her;
it was stiff and useless.

He stopped firing long enough to make the shift, even as the spheres
attacked again.

The bolts had put out the lights in fully half of the marauders but the others came on unafraid.
Nat straddled Digger's writhing body, held the spacehound motionless between his legs. At short
range, he seared off the imprisoning tentacles, knowing that it would take far more than a heat-bolt
to damage the well-nigh impregnable creature. He swooped the dog up under his good arm and fled
from the madly-pursuing spheres, thanking nameless deities that the
gravity here permitted such herculean feats.

The spheres rolled faster, he soon found, than he could jump; so long as he was above them, all
was well, but by the time the weak gravity permitted him to land, they were waiting for him.
He tried zig-zagging.

Good! It worked. He eluded them up to the mouth of the cave, then jumped for the door of his ship's
outer airlock.***** Nat placed the girl in his bunk, removed the cumbersome spacesuit. Her eyes
blinked faintly, then sprang open. But they did not see him; they were staring straight ahead.
Her mouth opened and shut weakly as though she were speaking, but
no sound issued from it.

He brought her water, but when he returned she had fallen asleep. He returned to the kitchen to
prepare some food. "You're still running around in that pillow case," he remarked to Digger as he extracted
the spacehound from it. "Attend me, now. We know why and how those people disappeared. It
would take the Space Patrol ship at least a month to arrive here; I don't intend to perch on the
back of this devil as long as that. And if we leave, old thing, it'll just lure other chivalrous
fools to very unpleasant ends." And we've got to get this kid back to civilization. She needs
a doctor's care, preferably a doctor with two arms. "Digger's vibrations were one of general approval."
We could poison it, "he went on."

Only I'm not a chemist; even if I knew the compounds contained in
that reeking stomach I wouldn't know what would destroy them.

Might blow it up, but we haven't enough explosive. "No, we'll have to get down into the thing's
insides again. In fact--" He paused suddenly, mouth open. "Congratulate me, Digger! I have it!"
The smell of burning vegetables cut short his soliloquy. He fed the starved, half-blind girl, then
left her sleeping exhaustedly as he squirmed into his suit.

No sooner
had he entered the mouth of the cave than a half-dozen of the singing sensory organs rolled quickly,
yet not angrily, toward him.

The beast was apparently optimistic, for the globes sang in their most soothing, seductive
tones. They tried to herd him into the first cave on the right, but he had remembered the
squeaker; they could not distract him. Effortlessly he leaped over
them toward the mouth of the cave on the left.

That was where the spaceships lay, pointing in all directions like a carelessly-dropped handful of
rice.

All the ships were in running order.

Good; had there been one vessel he could not move, then all was lost. The fuel in several ran low,
but after a few moments of punching levers and pulling chokes, the under rockets thundered in the
big room.

Taking care not to injure the motor compartments of the other ships, using only the most minute
explosion-quantities, he jockeyed each ship around until all their
noses pointed in one direction.

The exhausts pointed out through the wide doorway. It was well that the beast had formed curved
corners in the room, otherwise the scheme would not have worked.

The exhausts which did not point toward the door, directly, were toward the curved walls which would
deflect the forceful gasses expelled doorward. When he emerged from the ship, the spheres attacked.
He seared off their tentacles throughout what seemed to be eternities.
His body was becoming a mass of bruises from the lash of their tentacles.
He burned his way through the swarm on to ship after ship.

As he stepped from the last vessel there was
a rumbling beneath his feet. Did the monster understand his intent?
Was it stirring in its shell?

Most
of the globes had disappeared; now a nauseatingly sweet odor penetrated
the screen in his headpiece, which permitted him to smell without allowing
the oxygen to escape. He hurried around to the rear of the ship, an
apprehensive, sickening feeling at the pit of his stomach.

A thick jelly-like wave of liquid
was rolling over the floor-- the reeking, deadly juices from the
beast's stomach. If the liquid touched him, it would eat through the
heavy fabric, exploding the air pressure from around his body. How was
he to escape from the cave? The answer came to him suddenly. Quickly
he darted back toward the nearest vessel. Two of the screaming spheres
blocked his way; he sent bolt after searing bolt into them, more of a
charge than he had given any of the others.

The
lights in the globes went out; their voices ceased. And they burst
into slowly mounting incandescence. Yet, they were not consumed by their
fire, only glowed an intense white light like that of a lighthouse.
"Lighthouse!" The word flashed through his mind clearly, strongly.

They glowed like the "zirconia
lights" of a lighthouse. Why hadn't he recognized the greasy, quartz-like
material before? It was zirconia, a compound of zirconium, of course. A
silicate base creature could easily have formed a shell of it about
itself. Zirconia-- one of the compounds he'd intended prospecting for
on the moons of Saturn. Worth over a hundred dollars per pound. Because of its
resistance to heat, it was used to line the tubes of rockets; Terra's
supply had long been used up. Here was a fortune all around him; but
that fortune was about to be destroyed, he along with it, if he did
not hurry. If he could only reach the timing mechanism to yank from
it the wires connecting it to the other ships.

It was at the other end of the line.
He started in that direction, but a surge of fatal, thick acid rolled
before him, reaching for him with hungry, questing tongues. When it
was almost touching his toes, he leaped. As he floated toward the floor,
he placed a chair beneath him so that his feet landed on the seat. The
legs of the chair sank slowly into the liquid. Again he leaped, his
moment retarded by the fluid which now reached halfway up the chair
legs, sucked and clung there.

The sweetly-evil
smelling stuff was rising rapidly. But the next leap carried him into
the main cave. Abandoning the chair, he leaped once more, out through
the cave's mouth, pursued by the waving tentacles of the sensory spheres.*****
He had lost precious minutes eluding that deadly acid. It would take at
least five minutes to get his ship away from the asteroid; he must
hurry before all those rocket motors were thrown into action, or it
would be too late.

Leap and leap again. It seemed ages, but he
reached the ship, bolted the door shut. Thumps against the door as the
pursuing globes ran up against it. A thought came to him; swiftly
he opened the door, permitted a few of them to enter, then slammed it
shut. With the heat gun he sheared off their tentacles; he could sell
the zirconia in the entities.

Then he turned to the controls
and the ship zoomed up and out. Nat had barely raised his ship from the
Asteroid Moira when he saw the small planetoid lurch suddenly, bounding off
its orbit at almost a right angle. The sudden combined driving force
of all the rockets within the cave had sent it hurtling away like
a rocket itself.

The asteroid housing the monster was
heading into the Flora group of Asteroids. There the fifty-seven odd
solid bodies of that group would grind, crack, and rend that dangerous
beast into harmless, dead fragments.

"A good job," said a weak, but softly friendly
voice behind him. He whirled. The girl stood in the doorway of the
pilot room, supporting herself against the door frame. Digger rubbed
thoughtfully against her legs. "We'll just follow that asteroid, Miss,"
he said, "and see if we can't pick up some odd fragment of zirconia when
it's smashed in the grindstone there.

Then we'll light out for Terra."

She smiled. Earth, to
him, seemed like a very good place to go as soon as possible. This e-text
was produced from Comet July 1941. I believe we misestimate Mahomet's faults even as faults: but the
secret of him will never be got by dwelling there. We will leave all this behind us; and assuring
ourselves that he did mean some true thing, ask candidly what it was or might be.

These Arabs Mahomet was born among are certainly a notable people. Their country itself is
notable; the fit habitation for such a race. Savage inaccessible rock-mountains, great grim
deserts, alternating with beautiful strips of verdure: wherever water is, there is greenness,
beauty; odoriferous balm-shrubs, date-trees, frankincense-trees. Consider that wide waste horizon
of sand, empty, silent, like a sand-sea, dividing habitable place from habitable. You are all
alone there, left alone with the Universe; by day a fierce sun blazing down on it with intolerable
radiance; by night the great deep Heaven with its stars. Such a country is fit for a swift-handed,
deep-hearted race of men. There is something most agile, active, and yet most meditative, enthusiastic
in the Arab character. The Persians are called the French of the East; we will call the Arabs
Oriental Italians. A gifted noble people; a people of wild strong feelings, and of iron restraint
over these: the characteristic of noble-mindedness, of genius. The wild Bedouin welcomes the
stranger to his tent, as one having right to all that is there; were it his worst enemy, he
will slay his foal to treat him, will serve him with sacred hospitality for three days, will
set him fairly on his way;--and then, by another law as sacred, kill him if he can. In words
too as in action. They are not a loquacious people, taciturn rather; but eloquent, gifted when
they do speak. An earnest, truthful kind of men. They are, as we know, of Jewish kindred: but
with that deadly terrible earnestness of the Jews they seem to combine something graceful,
brilliant, which is not Jewish. They had "Poetic contests" among them before the time of Mahomet.
Sale says, at Ocadh, in the South of Arabia, there were yearly fairs, and there, when the merchandising
was done, Poets sang for prizes:--the wild people gathered to hear that.

One Jewish quality these Arabs manifest; the outcome of many or of all high qualities: what
we may call religiosity. From of old they had been zealous worshippers, according to their
light. They worshipped the stars, as Sabeans; worshipped many natural objects,--recognized
them as symbols, immediate manifestations, of the Maker of Nature. It was wrong; and yet not
wholly wrong. All God's works are still in a sense symbols of God. It was in the shape of a stack
of boxes of fire-crackers, and Jed was gazing at it.

It had been almost cruel of old Philips, the grocer, to pile them up out there the last week in June,
to make Jed and the other boys count their pennies and feel uncomfortable.

Fourth of July was coming, and Jed knew he would not be half ready for it. There were five other
little Pullmans, and Jed felt as if he alone could use up "fire-crackers
for six."

Think of having one of those boxes-- a whole one-- with nobody knew
how many packs in it!

"I'd treat every boy I know, except Prop Hooker; and mebbe I'd give him some if he'd promise not to
throw any more stones at Barlow."

The thought of such riches was a little too much for a boy of nine, and Jed slowly sidled around
the trunk of the poplar, as if he were trying to get away, but his eyes did not turn with him.
They stuck to the crackers.

"Hullo, my little man, what's your name?"

"Jed, sir."

He had to look up, up, up, to get at the grim, weather-beaten, but not unkindly face of the
elderly farmer before him.

"Jed, eh? What's your whole name?"

"Jedediah Rittenhouse Pullman. I live down there in that yellow brick
house behind the maple-trees."

"You
don't say! Why, if you'd ha'let your name drag after you, the back end of it wouldn't but just
be coming out of the front gate now. Can you drive cows?"

"That's what I have to do every night and morning.'Tain't everybody can drive our brindled
heifer neither."

Jed was thinking again. He had made up his mind that the stranger was a head taller than Grandfather
Pullman-- in fact, that he was taller than any other man in the world,
except old Mr. Myer, the maple-sugar man, and he had to stoop to get
into his own house.

"You don't say! Well, I'm down here alone, and I've got a loaded team to drive, and I've bought
a cow, and I want a smart boy to drive her home for me."

"How far is it?"

"Only to Topham. Little more'n twelve mile. I'll send ye home by somebody. Pay ye well, too. Will
you go?"

Jed hesitated a moment, but it was only because he seemed to be listening
to a great rattle of fire-crackers to come-- a cow-load of them.

"Course
I'll go, if mother'll let me."

"We'll see her about it right away.
You're just the boy I want. Give you four shillings."

A York shilling
was twelve and a half cents, and four of them made half a dollar.
Oh, what fire-works!

Mrs. Pullman met them at the door, and the first
word she said was, "Why, is that you, Deacon Giddings?"

Then Jed
knew it was all right, and while his mother talked with Deacon Giddings,
he went and combed his hair, and put on his Sunday hat and a pair
of shoes and stockings.

"Jed's a tough little fellow," said his mother,
"and he's used to driving cows."

She might have said more than that
for him. Even Deacon Giddings had picked him out as the "toughest-lookin'little
chap he'd seen in a long time." The deacon was in a hurry, though,
and almost before Jed began to realize it, he was dancing around
behind a very reluctant and rebellious cow, right up the main street,
with his new friend watching him from the seat of the heavily loaded
wagon.

"Ain't I glad I brought Barlow along!" said Jed to
himself, again and again. "He's a small dog, but he just knows how
to bark the best kind."

Barlow was indeed a small dog, very fat and
very yellow, and with less than two inches of stubby tail, but he
was keeping up a very steady racket at the heels of the cow. He could
hardly have done better if he had been a perpetual pack of fire-crackers,
going off one at a time.

Once they were out of the village and into
the country road, the work became easier, and Barlow could now and
then sit down and pant awhile before opening a fresh bark.

"You're
the boy for me," said the Deacon, from the wagon. "But ain't you afraid
that dog o'yourn'll bark himself to death?"

"No, sir, he's used
to it. Our brindled heifer always keeps him barking."

"You don't
say! Well, I'm glad I know your folks. What do you mean to do with
your money?"

"Fourth of July, sir."

"That's it. I declare! Well,
now, I might have thought of that. Gingerbread, nuts, candy--"

"No,
sir. Fire-crackers."

"You don't say! Look out for that cow; she's
heading down the road again.
The government was a kind of irregular aristocratic republic, not without a touch of theocracy.
Ten Men of a chief tribe, chosen in some rough way, were Governors of Mecca, and Keepers of
the Caabah. The Koreish were the chief tribe in Mahomet's time; his own family was of that
tribe. The rest of the Nation, fractioned and cut asunder by deserts, lived under similar rude
patriarchal governments by one or several: herdsmen, carriers, traders, generally robbers too;
being oftenest at war one with another, or with all: held together by no open bond, if it were
not this meeting at the Caabah, where all forms of Arab Idolatry assembled in common adoration;--held
mainly by the inward indissoluble bond of a common blood and language. In this way had the
Arabs lived for long ages, unnoticed by the world; a people of great qualities, unconsciously
waiting for the day when they should become notable to all the world. Their Idolatries appear
to have been in a tottering state; much was getting into confusion and fermentation among them.
Obscure tidings of the most important Event ever transacted in this world, the Life and Death
of the Divine Man in Judea, at once the symptom and cause of immeasurable change to all people
in the world, had in the course of centuries reached into Arabia too; and could not but, of
itself, have produced fermentation there.

It was among this Arab people, so circumstanced, in the year 570 of our Era, that the man Mahomet
was born. He was of the family of Hashem, of the Koreish tribe as we said; though poor, connected
with the chief persons of his country. Almost at his birth he lost his Father; at the age of
six years his Mother too, a woman noted for her beauty, her worth and sense: he fell to the
charge of his Grandfather, an old man, a hundred years old. A good old man: Mahomet's Father,
Abdallah, had been his youngest favorite son. He saw in Mahomet, with his old life-worn eyes,
a century old, the lost Abdallah come back again, all that was left of Abdallah. He loved the
little orphan Boy greatly; used to say, They must take care of that beautiful little Boy, nothing
in their kindred was more precious than he. At his death, while the boy was still but two years
old, he left him in charge to Abu Thaleb the eldest of the Uncles, as to him that now was head
of the house. By this Uncle, a just and rational man as everything betokens, Mahomet was brought
up in the best Arab way.

Mahomet, as he grew up, accompanied his Uncle on trading journeys and such like; in his eighteenth
year one finds him a fighter following his Uncle in war. But perhaps the most significant of
all his journeys is one we find noted as of some years' earlier date: a journey to the Fairs
of Syria. The young man here first came in contact with a quite foreign world,--with one foreign
element of endless moment to him: the Christian Religion. I know not what to make of that "Sergius,
the Nestorian Monk," whom Abu Thaleb and he are said to have lodged with; or how much any monk
could have taught one still so young. Probably enough it is greatly exaggerated, this of the
Nestorian Monk. Mahomet was only fourteen; had no language but his own: much in Syria must
have been a strange unintelligible whirlpool to him. But the eyes of the lad were open; glimpses
of many things would doubtless be taken in, and lie very enigmatic as yet, which were to ripen
in a strange way into views, into beliefs and insights one day. These journeys to Syria were
probably the beginning of much to Mahomet.

One other circumstance we must not forget: that he had no school-learning; of the thing we
call school-learning none at all. The art of writing was but just introduced into Arabia; it
seems to be the true opinion that Mahomet never could write! Life in the Desert, with its experiences,
was all his education. What of this infinite Universe he, from his dim place, with his own
eyes and thoughts, could take in, so much and no more of it was he to know. Curious, if we
will reflect on it, this of having no books. Except by what he could see for himself, or hear
of by uncertain rumor of speech in the obscure Arabian Desert, he could know nothing. The wisdom
that had been before him or at a distance from him in the world, was in a manner as good as
not there for him. Of the great brother souls, flame-beacons through so many lands and times,
no one directly communicates with this great soul. He is alone there, deep down in the bosom
of the Wilderness; has to grow up so,--alone with Nature and his own Thoughts.

But, from an early age, he had been remarked as a thoughtful man. His companions named him
"Al Amin, The Faithful." A man of truth and fidelity; true in what he did, in what he spake
and thought. They noted that he always meant something. A man rather taciturn in speech; silent
when there was nothing to be said; but pertinent, wise, sincere, when he did speak; always
throwing light on the matter. This is the only sort of speech worth speaking! Through life
we find him to have been regarded as an altogether solid, brotherly, genuine man. A serious,
sincere character; yet amiable, cordial, companionable, jocose even;--a good laugh in him withal:
there are men whose laugh is as untrue as anything about them; who cannot laugh. One hears
of Mahomet's beauty: his fine sagacious honest face, brown florid complexion, beaming black
eyes;--I somehow like too that vein on the brow, which swelled up black when he was in anger:
like the "horseshoe vein" in Scott's Redgauntlet. It was a kind of feature in the Hashem family,
this black swelling vein in the brow; Mahomet had it prominent, as would appear. A spontaneous,
passionate, yet just, true-meaning man! Full of wild faculty, fire and light; of wild worth,
all uncultured; working out his life-task in the depths of the Desert there.

How he was placed with Kadijah, a rich Widow, as her Steward, and travelled in her business,
again to the Fairs of Syria; how he managed all, as one can well understand, with fidelity,
adroitness; how her gratitude, her regard for him grew: the story of their marriage is altogether
a graceful intelligible one, as told us by the Arab authors. He was twenty-five; she forty,
though still beautiful. He seems to have lived in a most affectionate, peaceable, wholesome
way with this wedded benefactress; loving her truly, and her alone. As our provisions decreased
rapidly, we were forced to use the remainder very sparingly, and were consequently reduced to
a very short allowance.

On the 22d of September 1475, we entered Russia, and discovered a few huts in the middle of a
wood. On the inhabitants learning that Marcus, their countryman, was in our caravan, they came to
see him that he might protect them from the Tartars, and brought him a present of honey and
wax, a part of which he gave to us. This was a most providential supply, as we were so much reduced
by fatigue and spare diet, that we were hardly able to sit on horseback. The first city we
came to in this country was Rezan [2], the prince of which place had married a sister of the Grand
Duke of Russia.

The castle and all the houses of this city are built of wood. We here procured bread and meat,
and mead in abundance, to our great comfort and satisfaction. The next city we came to was Kolomna,
passing a very large bridge over the Monstrus [3] which flows into the Wolga. At this place,
Marcus quitted the caravan, which travelled too slowly in his opinion, and pushed on for Moscow,
where we arrived on the 26th of September, after a journey of forty-seven days through the
desert, from the 10th of August, on which day we left Citracan. In a great part of this journey
we found no wood, and were forced to cook our victuals with fires made of dried cow dung.
We returned thanks to God on our arrival, for our preservation through so many and great dangers.
On our arrival, Marcus procured a dwelling for us, consisting of a small stove-room and some
chambers, with stabling for our horses. Though small and mean, I felt as if lodged in a palace,
when I compared my present state of tranquil security with the dangers and inconveniences I
had been so long subjected to.

Marcus made me a visit two days afterwards, and supplied me with some necessaries, exhorting me,
as on the part of his sovereign, to keep a good heart.

I returned his visit next day; and being very desirous to return home to Venice, I requested
him to introduce me to the grand duke, which he promised to do as soon as possible, and I soon afterwards
was desired to go to court. Immediately on my getting there, I was conducted to an audience;
on which I made my obeisance in due form to the grand duke, to whom I returned thanks for all
the attentions I had received from his ambassador, Marcus, in the course of my journey, by
whose assistance and advice I had escaped a thousand dangers; assuring his highness that I attributed
these marks of kindness as done to the republic of Venice, whose ambassador I was, and that
the republic would unquestionably evince a due sense of the obligations, to which I owed my life
and safety. The grand duke interrupted my harangue, by complaining with much emotion of the conduct
of John Baptista of Treviso, and said a great deal on this subject, which is not proper for me
to report. After a conversation of some length, in which I spoke to his highness about my departure,
he closed my audience, postponing his answers to my requests to a future opportunity. The grand
duke was very shortly to quit Moscow, on purpose to visit several parts of his dominions, and particularly
the Tartar frontier, where one of his officers was stationed, with the command of 500 horse [4],
to repress the incursions of robbers on that side: I therefore endeavoured to procure an answer
about my departure, and solicited a second audience for that purpose. On this occasion I was
very politely received by the grand duke, accompanied by three of his principal barons. At first they
expatiated at some length on the subject of John Baptista, formerly mentioned; but at length I
received liberty to remain or to depart as I thought proper.

They dismissed me with this vague answer, and the grand duke set out from Moscow soon afterwards.
I owed a great deal of money to Marcus, which he had expended for me and my people, as he had
defrayed the whole expences of our journey, and had supplied me with many things of which
I stood in need. I requested permission from him to go away, giving him the most solemn assurance
that I would transmit full payment to him immediately after my arrival at Venice. But he declared
this was not in his power, as he was under the necessity of repaying the Tartarian and Russian
merchants, who had advanced all these things for us, and to whom he had become security for
payment. Finding every application to the duke and Marcus on this subject ineffectual, as I could
not procure the necessary funds for my journey from either, I was under the necessity of sending
Stephen Testa to Venice, to solicit a remittance from our illustrious senate, by which I might
be enabled to pay my debts. Stephen left Moscow on the 7th of October, accompanied by one Nicolas
Leopolitain [5], who knew the country.

I became acquainted at Moscow with one Triphon, a goldsmith, a native of Ascravia or Cathara, who was
employed in making several articles of silver plate for the grand duke. I likewise formed acquaintance
with a very ingenious architect of Bologna, named Aristotle, who was building a new church in the
market-place. As the house in which I lodged was small and disagreeable, I went to live with
this person by the advice of Marcus: But I was soon after obliged to change my quarters by order from court,
to a house near the castle, in which I remained for the rest of my stay at Moscow. This city,
which is the capital of the Russian dominions, and the residence of the grand duke, or sovereign,
is built on a small elevation, on the banks of the Mosqua, over which there are several bridges;
the castle and all the houses of the city being built of wood, which is procured from several
thick forests near the place. The soil of this country is fertile, and produces abundance of corn
of all kinds, which sell here much cheaper than with us; The country
abounds in cattle and swine, and with incredible numbers of poultry,
ducks, geese, and hares; but they have no venison, either because
there are no deer, or because the natives are ignorant of the art
of taking them.

But they have no vines, and their only fruits are cucumbers, wild apples, and nuts. The country
is extremely cold, and the inhabitants are under the necessity of living for nine months of
the year in stoves. They provide during winter for their living in summer [6]. When the whole country
is enveloped in frost and snow, they use sledges drawn by horses, which are very convenient and useful
for travelling; and are even used in summer on account of the miry bad roads, which are exceedingly
difficult and unpleasant. The river ordinarily freezes over about the end of October, when
the merchants erect booths on the ice, in which they expose their wares of all kinds for sale, as in
a fair or market; and they here sell great numbers of cattle and swine, and great quantities
of corn, timber, and all other necessaries of life; every thing being procurable in great
abundance all the winter. About the end of November, they kill all the cattle, sheep, and
other animals that are required for winter provision, and expose them for sale on the river
in a frozen state; and the rigour of the season preserves these provisions for two or three
months, without any risk of spoiling. Fish, poultry, and all other articles of food, are kept
in the same manner.

The horses run with great ease and swiftness on the ice yet they sometimes fell and break their
necks. Both men and women of this country have very good faces, but their manners are exceedingly
bad.

The Russian church is ruled over by a patriarch, whose election or appointment is dependent on the
grand duke, and who does not acknowledge subjection to the Roman pontiff; and they hold all
sectaries in abhorrence, as people doomed to perdition. The natives are much addicted to drunkenness,
and he who excels in drinking is much esteemed among them. They have no wine, as I have said
before, instead of which they drink mead, made of honey and water, which is very pleasant when
sufficiently kept. It is not allowed to every one to make this liquor, for which purpose a
license or permission must be had from the grand duke; for if every
person had liberty to make mead, they would drink perpetually like
so many beasts, and would kill one another.

From morning till noon, they are employed in the market-place, occupied in their various businesses
and employments, after which they adjourn to the taverns, in which they spend all the rest of
the day. Every winter, great numbers of merchants come to Moscow from Germany and Poland, who
purchase furs of all kinds, which are indeed exceedingly beautiful. Among these furs, are the
skins of foxes, wolves, martins, sables, ermines, and many others, from Scythia and the alpine
regions, many days journey to the north of Moscow. Many of these are likewise carried for sale
to Novogorod [7], a city towards the frontiers of Germany, eight days journey west from Moscow.
The government of that city is democratic, and only pays a stipulated yearly tribute to the
grand duke.

The country subject to the grand duke of Russia is of vast extent, and an infinite number of
people are subject to his dominions, but they are by no means warlike.

This empire extends from the north towards the west, to that part of Germany which is under
the dominion of the king of Poland [8]; and some reckon among his subjects a wandering nation
of idolaters, who acknowledge no sovereign, not even submitting to the authority of the grand
duke, but when it suits their own convenience. These wandering tribes are said to worship
during the day whatever first presents itself to their view, on going out in the morning; many
other ridiculous things are reported of them, which I do not repeat, as I have not seen them,
and can hardly give credit to the reports. The grand duke [9] appeared to be about thirty-five
years of age, was handsomely made, and had very dignified manners, and an air quite royal. His
mother was still alive, and he had two brothers. By a former wife he had two sons, who did not
agree with Despina, the reigning grand duchess, and were not therefore on very friendly terms
with their father. Despina, his second wife, had brought him two daughters, and was said to
be again with child.

The grand duke returned to Moscow from his journey to the frontiers about the end of December;
and, as I could not reconcile myself to the manners and mode of life of the Russians, I became
exceedingly impatient to leave the country, and could not persuade myself to stay for the return
of Stephen from Venice with money. For this reason, I made interest with one of the lords of the
court, to prevail on the grand duke to supply me with money, and to give me leave to depart. A
few days afterwards, the grand duke sent for me to court and invited me to dinner, when he agreed,
from respect to the republic, to lend me as much money as was necessary
to clear all my debts to the Tartarian and Russian merchants, and
to enable me to return to Venice.

The dinner was quite magnificent, consisting of every delicacy, and of abundance of exquisitely
dressed dishes. When the repast was finished, I retired according to custom. Some days afterwards,
I was again invited to court, and the grand duke gave orders his treasurer to give me all
the money necessary for paying my debts, besides which, he presented me with 1000 ducats, and
a magnificent dress of Scythian squirrels skins, to wear in his presence when I came to court.
Before returning to my quarters, he ordered me to be presented to the grand duchess, who received
me very graciously, and desired me to offer her respectful salutations to our illustrious republic,
which I promised to do.

[1] This journey appears to have been through the country on the west of the Wolga, which they
probably passed about Czariein, through the provinces of Saratov, Woronez, and Penza, avoiding
the Ilafla, to Rezan or Riazan.-- E. [2] Rezan or Riazan, in the
province of that name, on the Oka.

In a considerable, part of the track of this journey, there are now towns and villages; but the
whole of this south-eastern frontier of European Russia, appears to have been then entirely waste, and
pervaded by the wandering Tartars. We are quite in the dark respecting the particulars of the
route from Astracan to Rezan. It was certainty on the east of the Wolga at the first, to avoid the
Tartars which occupied the country between the Caspian and Euxine. The passage of that vast
river may have been at Czariein, at its great elbow, in lat. 48° 30'N. or about Saratov in 51° 20'N.
neither of which towns seem to have then existed. From thence they would probably proceed, to avoid
the larger rivers, between where Penza and Tchenbar now stand, and by the scite of Morbansk, towards
Riazan.-- E. [3] In the original this large bridge is said to have
been at Kolomna, which is on the river Mosqua, of very inferior magnitude;
and flows into the Oka, which most probably is the Monstrus of the
text.-- E. [4] In the original, the commander of this body of cavalry
is said to have been a Tartarian general-- E. [5] The word Leopolitain,
may possibly be a corruption for Neopolitan, or a native of Naples.

Perhaps it may refer to Leopol, in that part of Poland now belonging to
Austria, and called Galicia.-- E. [6] Such is the expression in the
original, which ought perhaps to be reversed.

Yet
Contarini possibly meant to say, that the inhabitants of Moscow laid
up a sufficient stock of money from the profits of their long winter
labours, for their subsistence during summer; when, by the absence
of the court, they had little employment.-- E. [7] There are two cities
named Novogrod or Novgorod in Russia, nearly at equal distances from
Moscow, one to the northwest, and the other to the southwest; the
latter of which, named Novgorod Sieverskov, is probably meant in the
text, and which ought rather to have been described as towards the
frontiers of Poland.

The other Novgorod did not then belong
to the Russian sovereignty.-- E. [8] The geographical ideas of Contarini
are very vague and superficial.

This is perhaps the only instance wherein Poland; a portion of European
Sarmatia, is considered as belonging geographically to Germany.--
E. [9] The reigning sovereign of Russia at the period was John III.
who began to reign in 1463, and was succeeded in 1505 by Basil IV.--
E. SECTION IX.

Contarini
leaves Moscow, and having passed through Lithuania, Poland, and Germany, arrives at Venice. On the
day before that which I had fixed for my departure, I was invited to dine at court. Before dinner,
I was taken into one of the halls of the palace, where I found the grand duke, accompanied by
Marcus and a secretary.

His highness addressed me very graciously, and desired me to report all the marks of esteem and
friendship he had shewn me, from respect to our illustrious republic, and offered me every thing
I could desire, and which lay in his power to grant. While speaking, I drew back from respect; but
as I retired he always advanced. I answered every thing to his satisfaction,
and humbly offered my most grateful thanks for all his benevolence
to me.

He
treated me with the utmost politeness and familiarity, and even condescended to shew me some
robes of gold tissue, magnificently lined with Scythian sables; after which we went to dinner. The
repast was extraordinarily magnificent, at which several of the barons
and great officers of state assisted.

When we rose from table, the grand duke called me to him, and gave me my audience of leave in the most
gracious terms, speaking so loud as to be heard by all the company,
and expressing his high esteem for the illustrious republic of Venice.

After this, by his order, a silver cup was brought to me filled with
mead, of which he made me a present, as a mark of high regard with
which he honours ambassadors, and other persons to whom he shews
favour.

This present was to me a matter of very serious consideration, as
the etiquette required me to empty its contents, and the cup was very
large.

When
I had drained about a quarter of the liquor, knowing the sobriety of the Italians, and perceiving
that I was much difficulted, the grand duke had the goodness to order the remainder to be emptied,
and the goblet given to me. Having thanked the grand duke in as respectful terms as I was able,
I took my leave and retired, accompanied by several barons and other persons of rank. Every thing
was now in readiness for my departure, but Marcus would by no means hear of my leaving Moscow,
without taking a dinner with him, and accordingly gave me a magnificent entertainment. Louis,
the patriarch of Antioch, of whom I have before made mention, came about this time to Moscow,
and was detained there by order of the grand duke; but I made interest through Marcus for his
release, which I obtained, and he was to have travelled along with me. But as he delayed too long,
I set off without him. At length, on the 21st January 1476, we set out from Moscow in sledges, made
like small huts, each drawn by a horse, and guided by a driver. In these sledges we carried our baggage
and provisions along with us, and in them, journeys of great length may be made in a wonderfully
short time. She requires of a thing only that it be genuine of heart; she will protect it
if so; will not, if not so. There is a soul of truth in all the things she ever gave harbor
to. Alas, is not this the history of all highest Truth that comes or ever came into the world?
The body of them all is imperfection, an element of light in darkness: to us they have to come
embodied in mere Logic, in some merely scientific Theorem of the Universe; which cannot be
complete; which cannot but be found, one day, incomplete, erroneous, and so die and disappear.
The body of all Truth dies; and yet in all, I say, there is a soul which never dies; which
in new and ever-nobler embodiment lives immortal as man himself! It is the way with Nature.
The genuine essence of Truth never dies. That it be genuine, a voice from the great Deep of
Nature, there is the point at Nature's judgment-seat. What we call pure or impure, is not with
her the final question. Not how much chaff is in you; but whether you have any wheat. Pure?
I might say to many a man: Yes, you are pure; pure enough; but you are chaff,--insincere hypothesis,
hearsay, formality; you never were in contact with the great heart of the Universe at all;
you are properly neither pure nor impure; you are nothing, Nature has no business with you.

Mahomet's Creed we called a kind of Christianity; and really, if we look at the wild rapt earnestness
with which it was believed and laid to heart, I should say a better kind than that of those
miserable Syrian Sects, with their vain janglings about Homoiousion and Homoousion, the head
full of worthless noise, the heart empty and dead! The truth of it is embedded in portentous
error and falsehood; but the truth of it makes it be believed, not the falsehood: it succeeded
by its truth. A bastard kind of Christianity, but a living kind; with a heart-life in it; not
dead, chopping barren logic merely! Out of all that rubbish of Arab idolatries, argumentative
theologies, traditions, subtleties, rumors and hypotheses of Greeks and Jews, with their idle
wire-drawings, this wild man of the Desert, with his wild sincere heart, earnest as death and
life, with his great flashing natural eyesight, had seen into the kernel of the matter. Idolatry
is nothing: these Wooden Idols of yours, "ye rub them with oil and wax, and the flies stick
on them,"--these are wood, I tell you! They can do nothing for you; they are an impotent blasphemous
presence; a horror and abomination, if ye knew them. God alone is; God alone has power; He
made us, He can kill us and keep us alive: "Allah akbar, God is great." Understand that His
will is the best for you; that howsoever sore to flesh and blood, you will find it the wisest,
best: you are bound to take it so; in this world and in the next, you have no other thing that
you can do!

And now if the wild idolatrous men did believe this, and with their fiery hearts lay hold of
it to do it, in what form soever it came to them, I say it was well worthy of being believed.
In one form or the other, I say it is still the one thing worthy of being believed by all men.
Man does hereby become the high-priest of this Temple of a World. He is in harmony with the
Decrees of the Author of this World; cooperating with them, not vainly withstanding them: I
know, to this day, no better definition of Duty than that same. All that is right includes
itself in this of co-operating with the real Tendency of the World: you succeed by this (the
World's Tendency will succeed), you are good, and in the right course there. Homoiousion, Homoousion,
vain logical jangle, then or before or at any time, may jangle itself out, and go whither and
how it likes: this is the thing it all struggles to mean, if it would mean anything. If it
do not succeed in meaning this, it means nothing. Not that Abstractions, logical Propositions,
be correctly worded or incorrectly; but that living concrete Sons of Adam do lay this to heart:
that is the important point. Islam devoured all these vain jangling Sects; and I think had
right to do so. It was a Reality, direct from the great Heart of Nature once more. Arab idolatries,
Syrian formulas, whatsoever was not equally real, had to go up in flame,--mere dead fuel, in
various senses, for this which was fire.

It was during these wild warfarings and strugglings, especially after the Flight to Mecca,
that Mahomet dictated at intervals his Sacred Book, which they name Koran, or Reading, "Thing
to be read." This is the Work he and his disciples made so much of, asking all the world, Is
not that a miracle? The Mahometans regard their Koran with a reverence which few Christians
pay even to their Bible. It is admitted every where as the standard of all law and all practice;
the thing to be gone upon in speculation and life; the message sent direct out of Heaven, which
this Earth has to conform to, and walk by; the thing to be read. Their Judges decide by it;
all Moslem are bound to study it, seek in it for the light of their life. They have mosques
where it is all read daily; thirty relays of priests take it up in succession, get through
the whole each day. There, for twelve hundred years, has the voice of this Book, at all moments,
kept sounding through the ears and the hearts of so many men. We hear of Mahometan Doctors
that had read it seventy thousand times!

Very curious: if one sought for "discrepancies of national taste," here surely were the most
eminent instance of that! We also can read the Koran; our Translation of it, by Sale, is known
to be a very fair one. I must say, it is as toilsome reading as I ever undertook. A wearisome
confused jumble, crude, incondite; endless iterations, long-windedness, entanglement; most
crude, incondite;--insupportable stupidity, in short! Nothing but a sense of duty could carry
any European through the Koran. We read in it, as we might in the State-Paper Office, unreadable
masses of lumber, that perhaps we may get some glimpses of a remarkable man. It is true we
have it under disadvantages: the Arabs see more method in it than we. Mahomet's followers found
the Koran lying all in fractions, as it had been written down at first promulgation; much of
it, they say, on shoulder-blades of mutton, flung pell-mell into a chest: and they published
it, without any discoverable order as to time or otherwise;--merely trying, as would seem,
and this not very strictly, to put the longest chapters first. The real beginning of it, in
that way, lies almost at the end: for the earliest portions were the shortest. Read in its
historical sequence it perhaps would not be so bad. Much of it, too, they say, is rhythmic;
a kind of wild chanting song, in the original. This may be a great point; much perhaps has
been lost in the Translation here. Yet with every allowance, one feels it difficult to see
how any mortal ever could consider this Koran as a Book written in Heaven, too good for the
Earth; as a well-written book, or indeed as a book at all; and not a bewildered rhapsody; written,
so far as writing goes, as badly as almost any book ever was! So much for national discrepancies,
and the standard of taste.

Yet I should say, it was not unintelligible how the Arabs might so love it. When once you get
this confused coil of a Koran fairly off your hands, and have it behind you at a distance,
the essential type of it begins to disclose itself; and in this there is a merit quite other
than the literary one. If a book come from the heart, it will contrive to reach other hearts;
all art and author-craft are of small amount to that. One would say the primary character of
the Koran is this of its genuineness, of its being a bona-fide book. Prideaux, I know, and
others have represented it as a mere bundle of juggleries; chapter after chapter got up to
excuse and varnish the author's successive sins, forward his ambitions and quackeries: but
really it is time to dismiss all that. I do not assert Mahomet's continual sincerity: who is
continually sincere? But I confess I can make nothing of the critic, in these times, who would
accuse him of deceit prepense; of conscious deceit generally, or perhaps at all;--still more,
of living in a mere element of conscious deceit, and writing this Koran as a forger and juggler
would have done! Every candid eye, I think, will read the Koran far otherwise than so. It is
the confused ferment of a great rude human soul; rude, untutored, that cannot even read; but
fervent, earnest, struggling vehemently to utter itself in words. With a kind of breathless
intensity he strives to utter himself; the thoughts crowd on him pell-mell: for very multitude
of things to say, he can get nothing said. The meaning that is in him shapes itself into no
form of composition, is stated in no sequence, method, or coherence;--they are not shaped at
all, these thoughts of his; flung out unshaped, as they struggle and tumble there, in their
chaotic inarticulate state. We said "stupid:" yet natural stupidity is by no means the character
of Mahomet's Book; it is natural uncultivation rather. The man has not studied speaking; in
the haste and pressure of continual fighting, has not time to mature himself into fit speech.
The panting breathless haste and vehemence of a man struggling in the thick of battle for life
and salvation; this is the mood he is in! A headlong haste; for very magnitude of meaning,
he cannot get himself articulated into words. The successive utterances of a soul in that mood,
colored by the various vicissitudes of three-and-twenty years; now well uttered, now worse:
this is the Koran.

For we are to consider Mahomet, through these three-and-twenty years, as the centre of a world
wholly in conflict. Battles with the Koreish and Heathen, quarrels among his own people, backslidings
of his own wild heart; all this kept him in a perpetual whirl, his soul knowing rest no more.
In wakeful nights, as one may fancy, the wild soul of the man, tossing amid these vortices,
would hail any light of a decision for them as a veritable light from Heaven; any making-up
of his mind, so blessed, indispensable for him there, would seem the inspiration of a Gabriel.
Forger and juggler? No, no! This great fiery heart, seething, simmering like a great furnace
of thoughts, was not a juggler's. His Life was a Fact to him; this God's Universe an awful
Fact and Reality. He has faults enough. The man was an uncultured semi-barbarous Son of Nature,
much of the Bedouin still clinging to him: we must take him for that. But for a wretched Simulacrum,
a hungry Impostor without eyes or heart, practicing for a mess of pottage such blasphemous
swindlery, forgery of celestial documents, continual high-treason against his Maker and Self,
we will not and cannot take him.

Sincerity, in all senses, seems to me the merit of the Koran; what had rendered it precious
to the wild Arab men. It is, after all, the first and last merit in a book; gives rise to merits
of all kinds,--nay, at bottom, it alone can give rise to merit of any kind. Of the Transactions
of certain English, Danish, and Flemish Pilgrims in the Holy Land,
in 1107 [1].

In the seventh year of King Baldwin, a large fleet from England, containing above 7000 men, many of
whom were soldiers, arrived at the harbour of Joppa, along with whom came other warriors from
Denmark, Flanders, and Antwerp. Having received permission and safe conduct from King Baldwin,
together with a strong band of armed men as a safeguard, they arrived in safety at Jerusalem and
all the other places of devotion, free from all assaults and ambushes of the Gentiles; and having
paid their vows unto the Lord in the church of the Holy Sepulchre, they returned with great
joy, and without molestation, to Joppa [2]. Finding King Baldwin in that place, they made offer
to assist him in any military enterprize; for which offer he gave them great commendations, saying,
That he could not give an immediate answer, without consulting the
patriarch and barons, of his kingdom.

He
therefore called together the Lord Patriarch, Hugh of Tabaria, Gunfrid the governor of the Tower
of David, and the other principal officers of the kingdom of Jerusalem, to consult together in the
city of Rames, how best to employ this proferred assistance of so
considerable a body of volunteers.

In
that assembly, it was agreed upon to lay siege to the city of Sagitta, otherwise called Sidon;
upon which, having directed every one of the nobles to go home, that they might provide armour
and all other necessaries for the siege, he sent messengers to the English, requiring them not
to remove their fleet and army from Joppa, but to wait there for
his farther commands; informing them, that he and his nobles had resolved,
with their aid, to lay siege to the city of Sidon, but it would require
some time to provide the necessary engines and warlike instruments,
for assaulting the walls of that place.

The pilgrims answered, that they would attend his orders at Joppa, promising to be obedient
to him in all things, even unto death. The king went soon afterwards, with the patriarch and
all his attendants to the city of Acre; where, during forty days, he was busily employed in
the construction of engines, and many different kinds of warlike instruments, and of every
thing necessary for the intended siege.

When this intended expedition came to the knowledge of the inhabitants of Sidon, and they understood
that a powerful army of pilgrims lay in readiness at Joppa, to assist the king of Jerusalem,
they were afraid of being subdued and destroyed by the Christians, as Caesaria, Assur, Acre,
Cayphas, and Tabaria had already been; and they sent secret emissaries to the king, offering
a large sum of money in gold byzants, and a considerable yearly tribute, on condition that he
would spare their lives and refrain from the intended siege. After a lengthened negotiation,
during which the inhabitants of Sidon rose considerably in their offers, the king, being in
great straits for means to discharge the pay of his soldiers, hearkened willingly to the offers
of the Sidonians; yet, afraid of reproach from the Christians, he dared not openly to consent
to their proposals.

In the meantime, Hugh of Tabaria, who was a principal warrior among the Christians of Palestine,
and indefatigable in assaulting the pagans on all occasions, having gathered together 200
horse and 400 infantry, suddenly invaded the country of a great Saracen lord, named Suet,
on the frontiers of the territory of Damascus, where he took a rich booty of gold and silver
and many cattle, which would have proved of great importance in assisting the army at the siege
of Sidon. On his return with this prey by the city of Belinas, otherwise called Caesaria Philippi,
the Turks of Damascus, with the Saracen inhabitants of the country,
gathered together in great numbers, and pursued the troops of Hugh,
that they might recover the booty.

Coming up with them in the mountains, over which the infantry belonging to Hugh of Tabaria were
driving their prey, the Turks prevailed over the Christians, and the plunder was recovered. On
receiving this intelligence, Hugh, who happened to be at some distance, hastened with his cavalry
to succour his footmen, and to recover the spoil: But happening to fall in with the Turks in
a strait and craggy place, and rushing heedlessly among the enemy, unprovided with his armour, he was
shot in the back by an arrow, which pierced his liver, and he died on the spot. His soldiers
brought back the dead body of Hugh to the city of Nazareth near Mount Thabor, where he was
honourably interred. Gerard, the brother of Hugh, lay at this time sick of a dangerous illness,
and died within eight days afterwards.

Taking advantage of the death of these two famous princes, King Baldwin agreed to receive the
money which had been offered to him by the city of Sidon, yet kept his intentions of making peace
private, and sent to Joppa, desiring the chiefs of the English, Danes, and Flemings, to come
with their fleet and army to Acre, as if he had meant to prosecute the siege. When they arrived,
he represented to their chiefs the great loss he had sustained by the death of two of his chief
warriors, on which account, he was constrained to defer the siege to a more convenient opportunity,
and must now dismiss his army. On this the strangers saluted the king very respectfully, and,
embarking in their ships, returned to their own countries.

[1] Hakluyt, I. 47. Chron.

Hierosol. lib. x. [2] Though not mentioned in the text, it seems presumable that these pilgrims deemed
it necessary for them to proceed unarmed in execution of their devotions,
under an escort.-- E. SECTION V. The Expedition of William Longespee,
or Long-sword, Earl of Salisbury, in the year 1248, under the Banners
of St Louis, King of France, against the Saracens [1].

When Louis, King of France, went against the Saracens in 1248, William
Earl of Salisbury, with the Bishop of Worcester, and other great men
of the realm of England, accompanied him in the holy warfare [2].

About the beginning of October 1249, the French king assaulted and took the city of Damietta,
which was esteemed the principal strong-hold of the Saracens in Egypt;
and having provided the place with a sufficient garrison, under the
Duke of Burgundy, he removed his camp, to penetrate farther eastwards.

In this army William Earl of Salisbury served, with a chosen band of Englishmen under his especial
command; but the French entertained a great dislike to him and his people, whom they flouted
upon all occasions, calling them English tails [3], and other opprobrious names, insomuch, that
the King of France had much ado to keep peace between them. This quarrel originated from the
following circumstance: Not far from Alexandria there was a strong castle belonging to the Saracens
[4], in which they had placed some of their principal ladies, and much treasure; which fortress
the earl and his English followers had the good fortune to take, more by dexterous policy than by
open force of arms, through which capture he and his people were much enriched; and when the French came
to the knowledge of this exploit, which had not been previously communicated to them, they were
much enraged against the English, and could never speak well of
them afterwards. Not long after this, the earl got secret intelligence
of a rich caravan of merchants belonging to the Saracens, who were
travelling to a certain fair which was to be held near Alexandria,
with a multitude of camels, asses, and mules, and many carts, all
richly laden with silks, precious jewels, spices, gold, silver, and
other commodities, besides provisions and other matters of which the
soldiers were then in great want. Without giving notice of this to the rest
of the Christian army, the earl gathered all the English troops,
and fell by night upon the caravan, killing many of the people, and
making himself master of the whole carts and baggage cattle with their
drivers, which he brought with him to the Christian camp, losing only
one soldier in the skirmish, and eight of his servants, some of whom
were only wounded and brought home to be cured.

When this was known in the camp, the Frenchmen, who had loitered in their tents while the earl
and his people were engaged in the expedition, came forth and forcibly took to themselves the
whole of this spoil, finding great fault with the earl and the English for leaving the camp without
orders from the general, contrary to the discipline of war; though the earl insisted that he had done
nothing but what he would readily justify, and that his intentions were to have divided the spoil among
the whole army. But this being of no avail, and very much displeased at being deprived in
so cowardly a manner of what he had so adventurously gained, he made his complaint to the king; and
being successfully opposed there by the pride of the Count of Artois, the kings brother, who
thwarted his claims with disdainful spite, he declared that he would serve no longer in their army,
and bidding farewell to the king, he and his people broke up from the army and marched for Achon
[5]. Upon their departure, the Count d'Artois said that the French army was well rid of these
tailed English; which words, spoken in despite, were ill taken by many good men, even of their own
army. But not long after, when the governor of Cairo, who was offended with
the Soldan, offered to deliver that place to the French king, and even
gave him instructions now he might best conduct himself to accomplish
that enterprize, the king sent a message in all haste to the Earl
of Salisbury, requesting him to return to the army, under promise
of redressing all his grievances; on which he came back and rejoined
the French army.

The king of France now marched towards Cairo, and came to the great river Nile, on the other side
of which the Soldan had encamped with his army, on purpose to dispute the passage. At this time,
there was a Saracen in the service of the Count of Artois, who had been lately converted to the
Christian faith, and who offered to point out a shallow ford in the river, by which the army might easily
cross over. Upon receiving this intelligence, Artois and the master of the Knights Templars, with about
a third of the army, crossed to the other side, and were followed by Salisbury and the English.
These being all joined, made an assault upon a part of the Saracen army which remained in the camp,
and overthrew them, the Soldan being then at some distance with the greater part of his army.
After this easy victory, Artois was so puffed up with pride and elated by success, that he believed
nothing could withstand him, and would needs advance without waiting for the coming up of the
main body of the army under the king of France, vainly believing that he was able with the power
he had to conquer the whole force of the Saracens.

The master of the Templars, and other experienced officers, endeavoured to dissuade him from
this rash conduct; advising him rather to return to the main army, satisfied with the signal advantage he had
already achieved; that thereby the whole army of the Christians might
act in concert, and be the better able to guard against the danger
of any ambushes or other stratagems of war, that might have been devised
for their destruction.

They represented to him that the horses of this vanguard were already tired, and the troops
without food; and besides, that their numbers were utterly unable to withstand the vastly superior
multitude of the enemy; who besides, having now obviously to fight for their last stake,
the capital of their dominions, might be expected to exert their utmost efforts. To this salutary
counsel, the proud earl arrogantly answered with opprobrious taunts;
reviling the whole Templars as dastardly cowards and betrayers of
their country, and even alleged that the Holy Land of the Cross might
easily be won to Christendom, if it were not for the rebellious spirit
of the Templars and Hospitallers, and their followers: which, indeed,
was a common belief among many.

To these contumelious remarks, the master of the Templars angrily desired him, in his own name and
that of his followers, to display his ensign when and where he dared, and he should find them
as ready to follow as he to lead. The Earl of Salisbury now remonstrated with Artois, advising
him to listen to these experienced persons, who were much better acquainted with the country and
people than he could be; and endeavoured to convince him that their advice was discreet and worthy
to be followed. He then addressed his discourse to the master of the Templars, prudently endeavouring
to sooth his anger against the arrogance of the Count of Artois. But Artois cut him short, exclaiming
in anger with many oaths, "Away with these cowardly Englishmen with tails; the army would be
much better rid of these tailed people;" and many other scandalous and disdainful expressions.
To this the English earl replied, "Well, Earl Robert, wherever you dare set your foot, my steps
shall go as far as yours; and I believe we shall go this day where you shall not dare to come near
the tails of our horses." And it so happened as Earl William said:
For Earl Robert of Artois persisted to march forward against the
Soldan, vainly hoping to win all the glory to himself, before the
coming up of the main body of the host.

His first enterprize was ordering an attack on a small castle, or fortified village, called Mansor;
whence a number of the villagers ran out, on seeing the approach of the Christians, making a
great outcry, which came to the ears of the Soldan, who was much nearer with his army than had been
supposed. In the mean time, the Christians made an assault on Mansor with too little precaution,
and were repulsed with considerable loss, many of them being slain by large stones, thrown upon them
as they entered the place; by which the army not only lost a considerable number of men, but was
much dispirited by this unexpected repulse. Immediately on the back of this discomfiture, the Soldan
came in sight with his whole army; and seeing the Christians in this divided state, brother separated
from brother, joyfully seized the opportunity he had long wished for, and inclosing them on all sides,
that none might escape, attacked them with great fury.

In this situation, the Earl of Artois sore repented of his headstrong rashness, when it was too
late; and, seeing Earl William Longespee fighting bravely against the chief brunt of the enemy,
he called out to him in a cowardly manner to flee, as God fought against them. But William bravely
answered, "God forbid that my father's son should flee from the face of a Saracen." Earl Robert
turned out of the fight, and fled away, thinking to escape from death or captivity by the swiftness
of his horse; and taking the river Thafnis [6], sank through the weight of his armour, and was
drowned.

On the flight of Earl Robert, the French troops lost heart, and began to give ground: But William
Longespee, bearing up manfully against the whole force of the enemy, stood firm as long as
he was able, slaying and wounding many of the Saracens. At length, his horse being killed, and his legs
maimed, he fell to the ground; yet he continued to mangle their legs
and feet, till at last he was slain with many wounds, being finally stoned
to death by the Saracens. After his death, the Saracens set upon
the remainder of the army, which they had surrounded on every side,
and destroyed them all, so that scarce a single man remained alive.

Of the whole, only two templars, one hospitaller, and one common soldier escaped, to bring the
melancholy tidings to the king of France. Thus by the imprudent and foolish rashness of Earl
Robert, the French troops were utterly discomfited, and the valiant English knight overpowered and
slain, to the grief of all the Christians, and the glory of the Saracens;
and, as it afterwards fell out, to the entire ruin of the whole French
army.

[1] Hakluyt, I. 70. [2] Hakluyt dates this expedition in the 32d year of the reign of Henry III.
of England. He mentions, in a former passage, I. p. 59. that the same Earl of Salisbury, accompanied
Richard Earl of Cornwall, in the 23d year of the same kings reign into Syria against the Saracens,
with many other English of note, where they performed good service against the unbelievers, but gives
no relation of particulars.-- E. [3] The meaning of this term of reproach does not appear;
unless, from some after circumstances, it may have proceeded from
their horses having long tails, while those of the French were dockt.--
E. [4] Probably Aboukir.-- E. [5] St John d'Acre.-- E. [6] This is
probably meant for that branch of the Nile which they had previously
crossed on their way to Mansor.-- E.***** CHAP.

XXI. Discovery of Madeira [1]. Although the Era of modern discovery certainly commenced under
the auspicious direction of Don Henry of Portugal, who first conceived and executed the sublime
idea of extending the knowledge and commerce of the globe, by a judicious series of maritime,
expeditions expressly for the purpose of discovery; yet as Madeira is said to have been visited, and
the Canaries were actually discovered and settled before that era, it appears necessary to give
a previous account of these discoveries, before proceeding to the second part of this work.
Several authors have left accounts of the real or pretended original discovery of this island
of Madeira, all of whom concur in asserting that it was first discovered by an Englishman. Juan
de Barros, the Livy of Portugal, mentions it briefly in the first decade of his Asia. The history
of this discovery was written in Latin, by Doctor Manoel Clemente, and dedicated to Pope Clement
V. Manoel Tome composed a Latin poem on the subject, which he intitled Insulana. Antonio Galvano
mentions it in a treatise of discoveries, made chiefly by the Spaniards and Portuguese previously
to the year 1550 [2]. Manoel de Faria y Sousa, the illustrious commentator of Camoens, cites Galvano in
illustration of the fifth stanza in the fifth book of the immortal
Lusiad, and likewise gives an account of this discovery in his Portuguese
Asia.

But the earliest and most complete relation of this discovery was
composed by Francisco Alcaforado, who was esquire to Don Henry the
infant or prince of Portugal, the first great promoter of maritime
discoveries, and to whom he presented his work.

No person was more capable of giving an exact account of that singular event than Alcaforado, as he was
one of those who assisted in making the second discovery. His work was first published in Portuguese
by Don Francisco Manoel, and was afterwards published in French at Paris in 1671 [3]. From this
French edition the following account is extracted, because the original Portuguese has not come
to our knowledge, neither can we say when that was printed; but as
the anonymous French translator remarked, that "Don Francisco keeps
the original MS. with great care," it may be concluded, that the Portuguese
impression did not long precede the French translation.

The French translator acknowledges that he has altered the style, which was extremely florid and poetical,
and has expunged several useless and tedious digressions, etymologies,
reflections, and comparisons; but declares that he has strictly presented,
the truth and substance of the history, so as not to vary from it
in the least, or to omit the smallest material circumstance.

It
is remarkable that there is no mention whatever in any of the English
histories of Machin, Macham, or Marcham, the supposed author of this
discovery; so that Hakluyt was beholden to Antonio Galvano for the
imperfect account he gives of that transaction [4].

By the following abstract the complete history becomes our own, and
we shall be no longer strangers to an event which has for several
ages, rendered an Englishman famous in foreign countries, while wholly
unknown in his own.

It must not, however, be omitted to observe, that some objections may be stated against the authenticity
of this history, on account of certain circumstances which do not
quadrate with the time assigned for Machin's voyage by the author.

From these it is obvious, either that the relation given by Alcaforado
is not genuine, or that it has been interpolated.

How far this objection may be admitted, without prejudice to the
authority of the whole story, must be left to the judgment of our
readers; we shall only add, that so far as relates to Macham it agrees
with the tradition of the inhabitants of Madeira.

According to Alcaforada, Juan Gonsalvo Zarco, a gentleman of the
household of Don Henry, being sent out by that prince upon an expedition
of discovery to the coast of Africa, made prize, in the year 1420,
of a Spanish vessel filled with redeemed captives, on their way from
Morocco to Spain.

In this vessel there was one John de Morales, an experienced and able pilot, whom he detained
as an acceptable present to his master Don Henry, and set all the rest at liberty. Morales on being
made acquainted with the cause of his detention, entered freely into the service of the prince, and
gave an account to Gonsalvo of the adventures of Machin, and the situation and land-marks of the new
discovered island, all of which he had learnt from certain English captives in the jails of Morocco,
who had accompanied Macham, or Machin, in his expedition.

The year of this extraordinary adventure is not mentioned by Galvano, who only says, that in
1344, Pedro IV. reigning in Arragon, the chronicles of his age reported, that about this time the
island of Madeira was discovered by one Macham, an Englishman. It must be confessed that an objection
arises against this history which is not easily removed. We are told that, immediately after the
death of Macham, his companions sailed over to Morocco, and that Morales was in prison when they
arrived. Supposing the discovery by Macham to have been made about 1344, as related by Galvano, from
the Castilian chronicles, Morales must have been no less than seventy-six years a prisoner when redeemed,
and when he was detained by Gonsalvo in 1420. Herbert places the adventure of Macham in 1328, which would increase
the captivity of Morales to ninety-two years.

Alcaforado places the event in the reign of Edward III. of England, which began in 1327 and ended in
1378; Even supposing it to have happened in the last year of Edward, Morales must have remained
forty-two years in captivity; which is not only highly improbable, but is even contrary to the sense of
the historian, who supposes but a small space to have elapsed between the two events; besides,
the records quoted by Galvano are said expressly to assert that Macham went himself into Africa,
whence he was sent to the king of Castile. This last circumstance may have been invented by the
Spaniards, to give them a better title to the island of Madeira: But the former objection remains
in full force, and can only be obviated by supposing that either Morales advanced a falsehood
in asserting, that he had the account of this discovery from the English themselves, instead of learning
it from the other slaves, among whom the tradition might have been current for many years after
the event; or Alcaforado may have mistaken the report of Morales in this particular. The following
is the substance of the narrative, as given by Alcaforado. In the glorious
reign of Edward III. Robert a Machin, of Macham, a gentleman of the
second degree of nobility, whose genius was only equalled by his gallantry
and courage, beheld and loved the beautiful Anna d'Arfet [5]. Petrarch and Boccaccio
did diplomatic messages, it seems, quite well: one can easily believe it; they had done things
a little harder than these! Burns, a gifted song-writer, might have made a still better Mirabeau.
Shakspeare,--one knows not what he could not have made, in the supreme degree.

True, there are aptitudes of Nature too. Nature does not make all great men, more than all
other men, in the self-same mould. Varieties of aptitude doubtless; but infinitely more of
circumstance; and far oftenest it is the latter only that are looked to. But it is as with
common men in the learning of trades. You take any man, as yet a vague capability of a man,
who could be any kind of craftsman; and make him into a smith, a carpenter, a mason: he is
then and thenceforth that and nothing else. And if, as Addison complains, you sometimes see
a street-porter, staggering under his load on spindle-shanks, and near at hand a tailor with
the frame of a Samson handling a bit of cloth and small Whitechapel needle,--it cannot be considered
that aptitude of Nature alone has been consulted here either!--The Great Man also, to what
shall he be bound apprentice? Given your Hero, is he to become Conqueror, King, Philosopher,
Poet? It is an inexplicably complex controversial-calculation between the world and him! He
will read the world and its laws; the world with its laws will be there to be read. What the
world, on this matter, shall permit and bid is, as we said, the most important fact about the
world.--

Poet and Prophet differ greatly in our loose modern notions of them. In some old languages,
again, the titles are synonymous; Vates means both Prophet and Poet: and indeed at all times,
Prophet and Poet, well understood, have much kindred of meaning. Fundamentally indeed they
are still the same; in this most important respect especially, That they have penetrated both
of them into the sacred mystery of the Universe; what Goethe calls "the open secret." "Which
is the great secret?" asks one.--"The open secret,"--open to all, seen by almost none! That
divine mystery, which lies everywhere in all Beings, "the Divine Idea of the World, that which
lies at the bottom of Appearance," as Fichte styles it; of which all Appearance, from the starry
sky to the grass of the field, but especially the Appearance of Man and his work, is but the
vesture, the embodiment that renders it visible. This divine mystery is in all times and in
all places; veritably is. In most times and places it is greatly overlooked; and the Universe,
definable always in one or the other dialect, as the realized Thought of God, is considered
a trivial, inert, commonplace matter,--as if, says the Satirist, it were a dead thing, which
some upholsterer had put together! It could do no good, at present, to speak much about this;
but it is a pity for every one of us if we do not know it, live ever in the knowledge of it.
Really a most mournful pity;--a failure to live at all, if we live otherwise!

But now, I say, whoever may forget this divine mystery, the Vates, whether Prophet or Poet,
has penetrated into it; is a man sent hither to make it more impressively known to us. That
always is his message; he is to reveal that to us,--that sacred mystery which he more than
others lives ever present with. While others forget it, he knows it;--I might say, he has been
driven to know it; without consent asked of him, he finds himself living in it, bound to live
in it. Once more, here is no Hearsay, but a direct Insight and Belief; this man too could not
help being a sincere man! Whosoever may live in the shows of things, it is for him a necessity
of nature to live in the very fact of things. A man once more, in earnest with the Universe,
though all others were but toying with it. He is a Vates, first of all, in virtue of being
sincere. So far Poet and Prophet, participators in the "open secret," are one.

With respect to their distinction again: The Vates Prophet, we might say, has seized that sacred
mystery rather on the moral side, as Good and Evil, Duty and Prohibition; the Vates Poet on
what the Germans call the aesthetic side, as Beautiful, and the like. The one we may call a
revealer of what we are to do, the other of what we are to love. But indeed these two provinces
run into one another, and cannot be disjoined. The Prophet too has his eye on what we are to
love: how else shall he know what it is we are to do? The highest Voice ever heard on this
earth said withal, "Consider the lilies of the field; they toil not, neither do they spin:
yet Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these." A glance, that, into the deepest
deep of Beauty. "The lilies of the field,"--dressed finer than earthly princes, springing up
there in the humble furrow-field; a beautiful eye looking out on you, from the great inner
Sea of Beauty! How could the rude Earth make these, if her Essence, rugged as she looks and
is, were not inwardly Beauty? In this point of view, too, a saying of Goethe's, which has staggered
several, may have meaning: "The Beautiful," he intimates, "is higher than the Good; the Beautiful
includes in it the Good." The true Beautiful; which however, I have said somewhere, "differs
from the false as Heaven does from Vauxhall!" So much for the distinction and identity of Poet
and Prophet.--

In ancient and also in modern periods we find a few Poets who are accounted perfect; whom it
were a kind of treason to find fault with. This is noteworthy; this is right: yet in strictness
it is only an illusion. At bottom, clearly enough, there is no perfect Poet! A vein of Poetry
exists in the hearts of all men; no man is made altogether of Poetry. We are all poets when
we read a poem well. The "imagination that shudders at the Hell of Dante," is not that the
same faculty, weaker in degree, as Dante's own? No one but Shakspeare can embody, out of Saxo
Grammaticus, the story of Hamlet as Shakspeare did: but every one models some kind of story
out of it; every one embodies it better or worse. We need not spend time in defining. Where
there is no specific difference, as between round and square, all definition must be more or
less arbitrary. A man that has so much more of the poetic element developed in him as to have
become noticeable, will be called Poet by his neighbors. World-Poets too, those whom we are
to take for perfect Poets, are settled by critics in the same way. One who rises so far above
the general level of Poets will, to such and such critics, seem a Universal Poet; as he ought
to do. And yet it is, and must be, an arbitrary distinction. All Poets, all men, have some
touches of the Universal; no man is wholly made of that. Most Poets are very soon forgotten:
but not the noblest Shakspeare or Homer of them can be remembered forever;--a day comes when
he too is not!

Nevertheless, you will say, there must be a difference between true Poetry and true Speech
not poetical: what is the difference? On this point many things have been written, especially
by late German Critics, some of which are not very intelligible at first. They say, for example,
that the Poet has an infinitude in him; communicates an Unendlichkeit, a certain character
of "infinitude," to whatsoever he delineates. This, though not very precise, yet on so vague
a matter is worth remembering: if well meditated, some meaning will gradually be found in it.
For my own part, I find considerable meaning in the old vulgar distinction of Poetry being
metrical, having music in it, being a Song. Truly, if pressed to give a definition, one might
say this as soon as anything else: If your delineation be authentically musical, musical not
in word only, but in heart and substance, in all the thoughts and utterances of it, in the
whole conception of it, then it will be poetical; if not, not.--Musical: how much lies in that!
A musical thought is one spoken by a mind that has penetrated into the inmost heart of the
thing; detected the inmost mystery of it, namely the melody that lies hidden in it; the inward
harmony of coherence which is its soul, whereby it exists, and has a right to be, here in this
world. All inmost things, we may say, are melodious; naturally utter themselves in Song.

Nay all speech, even the commonest speech, has something of song in it: not a parish in the
world but has its parish-accent;--the rhythm or tune to which the people there sing what they
have to say! Accent is a kind of chanting; all men have accent of their own,--though they only
notice that of others. Observe too how all passionate language does of itself become musical,--with
a finer music than the mere accent; the speech of a man even in zealous anger becomes a chant,
a song. All deep things are Song. It seems somehow the very central essence of us, Song; as
if all the rest were but wrappages and hulls! The primal element of us; of us, and of all things.
The Greeks fabled of Sphere-Harmonies: it was the feeling they had of the inner structure of
Nature; that the soul of all her voices and utterances was perfect music. Poetry, therefore,
we will call musical Thought. The Poet is he who thinks in that manner. At bottom, it turns
still on power of intellect; it is a man's sincerity and depth of vision that makes him a Poet.
See deep enough, and you see musically; the heart of Nature being everywhere music, if you
can only reach it.

The Vates Poet, with his melodious Apocalypse of Nature, seems to hold a poor rank among us,
in comparison with the Vates Prophet; his function, and our esteem of him for his function,
alike slight. The Hero taken as Divinity; the Hero taken as Prophet; then next the Hero taken
only as Poet: does it not look as if our estimate of the Great Man, epoch after epoch, were
continually diminishing? We take him first for a god, then for one god-inspired; and now in
the next stage of it, his most miraculous word gains from us only the recognition that he is
a Poet, beautiful verse-maker, man of genius, or such like!--It looks so; but I persuade myself
that intrinsically it is not so. If we consider well, it will perhaps appear that in man still
there is the same altogether peculiar admiration for the Heroic Gift, by what name soever called,
that there at any time was.

I should say, if we do not now reckon a Great Man literally divine, it is that our notions
of God, of the supreme unattainable Fountain of Splendor, Wisdom and Heroism, are ever rising
higher; not altogether that our reverence for these qualities, as manifested in our like, is
getting lower. This is worth taking thought of. Sceptical Dilettantism, the curse of these
ages, a curse which will not last forever, does indeed in this the highest province of human
things, as in all provinces, make sad work; and our reverence for great men, all crippled,
blinded, paralytic as it is, comes out in poor plight, hardly recognizable. Men worship the
shows of great men; the most disbelieve that there is any reality of great men to worship.
The dreariest, fatalest faith; believing which, one would literally despair of human things.
Nevertheless look, for example, at Napoleon! A Corsican lieutenant of artillery; that is the
show of him: yet is he not obeyed, worshipped after his sort, as all the Tiaraed and Diademed
of the world put together could not be? High Duchesses, and ostlers of inns, gather round the
Scottish rustic, Burns;--a strange feeling dwelling in each that they never heard a man like
this; that, on the whole, this is the man! In the secret heart of these people it still dimly
reveals itself, though there is no accredited way of uttering it at present, that this rustic,
with his black brows and flashing sun-eyes, and strange words moving laughter and tears, is
of a dignity far beyond all others, incommensurable with all others. Do not we feel it so?
But now, were Dilettantism, Scepticism, Triviality, and all that sorrowful brood, cast out
of us,--as, by God's blessing, they shall one day be; were faith in the shows of things entirely
swept out, replaced by clear faith in the things, so that a man acted on the impulse of that
only, and counted the other non-extant; what a new livelier feeling towards this Burns were it!

Nay here in these ages, such as they are, have we not two mere Poets, if not deified, yet we
may say beatified? Shakspeare and Dante are Saints of Poetry; really, if we will think of it,
canonized, so that it is impiety to meddle with them. The unguided instinct of the world, working
across all these perverse impediments, has arrived at such result. Dante and Shakspeare are
a peculiar Two. They dwell apart, in a kind of royal solitude; none equal, none second to them:
in the general feeling of the world, a certain transcendentalism, a glory as of complete perfection,
invests these two. They are canonized, though no Pope or Cardinals took hand in doing it! Such,
in spite of every perverting influence, in the most unheroic times, is still our indestructible
reverence for heroism.--We will look a little at these Two, the Poet Dante and the Poet Shakspeare:
what little it is permitted us to say here of the Hero as Poet will most fitly arrange itself
in that fashion.

Many volumes have been written by way of commentary on Dante and his Book; yet, on the whole,
with no great result. His Biography is, as it were, irrecoverably lost for us. An unimportant,
wandering, sorrow-stricken man, not much note was taken of him while he lived; and the most
of that has vanished, in the long space that now intervenes. It is five centuries since he
ceased writing and living here. After all commentaries, the Book itself is mainly what we know
of him. The Book;--and one might add that Portrait commonly attributed to Giotto, which, looking
on it, you cannot help inclining to think genuine, whoever did it. To me it is a most touching
face; perhaps of all faces that I know, the most so. Lonely there, painted as on vacancy, with
the simple laurel wound round it; the deathless sorrow and pain, the known victory which is
also deathless;--significant of the whole history of Dante! I think it is the mournfulest face
that ever was painted from reality; an altogether tragic, heart-affecting face. There is in
it, as foundation of it, the softness, tenderness, gentle affection as of a child; but all
this is as if congealed into sharp contradiction, into abnegation, isolation, proud hopeless
pain. A soft ethereal soul looking out so stern, implacable, grim-trenchant, as from imprisonment
of thick-ribbed ice! Withal it is a silent pain too, a silent scornful one: the lip is curled
in a kind of godlike disdain of the thing that is eating out his heart,--as if it were withal
a mean insignificant thing, as if he whom it had power to torture and strangle were greater
than it. The face of one wholly in protest, and lifelong unsurrendering battle, against the
world. Affection all converted into indignation: an implacable indignation; slow, equable,
silent, like that of a god! The eye too, it looks out as in a kind of surprise, a kind of inquiry,
Why the world was of such a sort? This is Dante: so he looks, this "voice of ten silent centuries,"
and sings us "his mystic unfathomable song."

The little that we know of Dante's Life corresponds well enough with this Portrait and this
Book. He was born at Florence, in the upper class of society, in the year 1265. His education
was the best then going; much school-divinity, Aristotelean logic, some Latin classics,--no
inconsiderable insight into certain provinces of things: and Dante, with his earnest intelligent
nature, we need not doubt, learned better than most all that was learnable. He has a clear
cultivated understanding, and of great subtlety; this best fruit of education he had contrived
to realize from these scholastics. He knows accurately and well what lies close to him; but,
in such a time, without printed books or free intercourse, he could not know well what was
distant: the small clear light, most luminous for what is near, breaks itself into singular
chiaroscuro striking on what is far off. This was Dante's learning from the schools. In life,
he had gone through the usual destinies; been twice out campaigning as a soldier for the Florentine
State, been on embassy; had in his thirty-fifth year, by natural gradation of talent and service,
become one of the Chief Magistrates of Florence. The Countess flatly rejected this offer. The King's word,
she had the insolence to hint, was not a sufficient security. "I am confident," said Shrewsbury,
"that His Majesty will strictly fulfil his engagements. If he breaks them I will not serve him
an hour longer." "That may be very honourable in you," answered the pertinacious vixen, "but it
will be very poor comfort to the Princess." Shrewsbury, after vainly attempting to move the servant,
was at length admitted to an audience of the mistress. Anne, in language doubtless dictated by her
friend Sarah, told him that the business had gone too far to be stopped, and must be left to the
decision of the Commons, [604] The truth was that the Princess's
prompters hoped to obtain from Parliament a much larger sum than was
offered by the King.

Nothing less than seventy thousand a year would content them. But their cupidity overreached itself.
The House of Commons showed a great disposition to gratify Her Royal Highness. But, when at length her too
eager adherents ventured to name the sum which they wished to grant, the murmurs were loud. Seventy
thousand a year at a time when the necessary expenses of the State were daily increasing, when the
receipt of the customs was daily diminishing, when trade was low, when every gentleman, every
farmer, was retrenching something from the charge of his table and
his cellar! The general opinion was that the sum which the King was
understood to be willing to give would be amply sufficient, [605]
At last something was conceded on both sides.

The Princess was forced to content herself with fifty thousand a year; and William agreed that
this sum should be settled on her by Act of Parliament. She rewarded the services of Lady Marlborough
with a pension of a thousand a year; [606] but this was in all probability a very small part of what
the Churchills gained by the arrangement. After these transactions the two royal sisters continued
during many months to live on terms of civility and even of apparent friendship. But Mary, though
she seems to have borne no malice to Anne, undoubtedly felt against
Lady Marlborough as much resentment as a very gentle heart is capable
of feeling.

Marlborough had been out of England during a great part of the time which his wife had spent
in canvassing among the Tories, and, though he had undoubtedly acted in concert with her, had acted,
as usual, with temper and decorum. He therefore continued to receive from William many marks
of favour which were unaccompanied by any indication of displeasure. In the debates on the
settling of the revenue, the distinction between Whigs and Tories does not appear to have been
very clearly marked.

In truth, if there was any thing about which the two parties were agreed, it was the expediency
of granting the customs to the Crown for a time not exceeding four
years.

But there were other questions which called forth the old animosity in all its strength. The
Whigs were now in a minority, but a minority formidable in numbers, and more formidable in ability.
They carried on the parliamentary war, not less acrimoniously than when they were a majority,
but somewhat more artfully. They brought forward several motions, such as no High Churchman could
well support, yet such as no servant of William and Mary could well oppose. The Tory who voted for
these motions would run a great risk of being pointed at as a turncoat by the sturdy Cavaliers
of his county. The Tory who voted against those motions would run a great risk of being frowned upon
at Kensington. It was apparently in pursuance of this policy that the Whigs laid on the table
of the House of Lords a bill declaring all the laws passed by the late Parliament to be valid laws.
No sooner had this bill been read than the controversy of the preceeding spring was renewed.
The Whigs were joined on this occasion by almost all those noblemen
who were connected with the government.

The rigid Tories, with Nottingham at their head, professed themselves willing to enact that
every statute passed in 1689 should have the same force that it would have had if it had
been passed by a parliament convoked in a regular manner; but nothing would induce them to acknowledge
that an assembly of lords and gentlemen, who had come together without authority from the Great Seal, was
constitutionally a Parliament. Few questions seem to have excited stronger passions than the question,
practically altogether unimportant, whether the bill should or should not be declaratory. Nottingham,
always upright and honourable, but a bigot and a formalist, was on this subject singularly obstinate
and unreasonable. In one debate he lost his temper, forgot the decorum which in general he strictly
observed, and narrowly escaped being committed to the custody of the Black Rod, [607] After much wrangling,
the Whigs carried their point by a majority of seven, [608] Many peers signed a strong protest written
by Nottingham. In this protest the bill, which was indeed open to verbal criticism, was impolitely described
as being neither good English nor good sense.

The majority passed a resolution that the protest should be expunged; and against this resolution
Nottingham and his followers again protested, [609] The King was displeased by the pertinacity of
his Secretary of State; so much displeased indeed that Nottingham declared his intention of resigning
the Seals; but the dispute was soon accommodated. William was too wise not to know the value of an honest
man in a dishonest age. The very scrupulosity which made Nottingham a mutineer was a security
that he would never be a traitor, [610] The bill went down to the Lower House; and it was full
expected that the contest there would be long and fierce; but a single speech settled the question.
Somers, with a force and eloquence which surprised even an audience accustomed to hear him with
pleasure, exposed the absurdity of the doctrine held by the high Tories. "If the Convention,"-- it
was thus that he argued,-- "was not a Parliament, how can we be a Parliament? An Act of Elizabeth
provides that no person shall sit or vote in this House till he has
taken the old oath of supremacy.

Not one of us has taken that oath. Instead of it, we have all taken the new oath of supremacy which
the late Parliament substituted for the old oath.

It is therefore a contradiction to say that the Acts of the late Parliament are not now valid,
and yet to ask us to enact that they shall henceforth be valid. For either they already are so, or we
never can make them so." This reasoning, which was in truth as unanswerable as that of Euclid, brought
the debate to a speedy close. The bill passed the Commons within forty-eight hours after it had been
read the first time, [611] This was the only victory won by the Whigs during the whole session.
They complained loudly in the Lower House of the change which had been made in the military government
of the city of London. The Tories, conscious of their strength, and heated by resentment, not only
refused to censure what had been done, but determined to express publicly and formally their gratitude
to the King for having brought in so many churchmen and turned out so many schismatics. An
address of thanks was moved by Clarges, member for Westminster, who was known to be attached
to Caermarthen.

"The alterations which have been made in the City," said Clarges, "show that His Majesty has
a tender care of us. I hope that he will make similar alterations in every county of the realm."
The minority struggled hard. "Will you thank the King," they said, "for putting the sword into
the hands of his most dangerous enemies? Some of those whom he has been advised to entrust with
military command have not yet been able to bring themselves to take the oath of allegiance
to him. Others were well known, in the evil days, as stanch jurymen, who were sure to find an
Exclusionist guilty on any evidence or no evidence." Nor did the Whig orators refrain from using
those topics on which all factions are eloquent in the hour of distress, and which all factions
are but too ready to treat lightly in the hour of prosperity.

"Let us not," they said, "pass a vote which conveys a reflection on a large body of our countrymen,
good subjects, good Protestants. The King ought to be the head of his whole people. Let us not make
him the head of a party." This was excellent doctrine; but it scarcely became the lips of
men who, a few weeks before, had opposed the Indemnity Bill and voted for the Sacheverell Clause.
The address was carried by a hundred and eighty-five votes to a hundred and thirty-six, [612] As
soon as the numbers had been announced, the minority, smarting from their defeat, brought
forward a motion which caused no little embarrassment to the Tory placemen. The oath of allegiance,
the Whigs said, was drawn in terms far too lax. It might exclude from public employment a few honest Jacobites
who were generally too dull to be mischievous; but it was altogether inefficient as a means of binding
the supple and slippery consciences of cunning priests, who, while affecting to hold the
Jesuits in abhorrence, were proficients in that immoral casuistry which was the worst part of
Jesuitism.

Some grave divines had openly said, others had even dared to write, that they had sworn fealty
to William in a sense altogether different from that in which they had sworn fealty to James. To James
they had plighted the entire faith which a loyal subject owes to a rightful sovereign; but, when
they promised to bear true allegiance to William, they meant only that they would not, whilst he
was able to hang them for rebelling or conspiring against him, run any risk of being hanged. None
could wonder that the precepts and example of the malecontent clergy should have corrupted
the malecontent laity. When Prebendaries and Rectors were not ashamed to avow that they had
equivocated, in the very act of kissing the New Testament, it was hardly to be expected that attorneys
and taxgatherers would be more scrupulous. The consequence was that every department swarmed
with traitors; that men who ate the King's bread, men who were entrusted with the duty of collecting
and disbursing his revenues, of victualling his ships, of clothing his soldiers, of making his
artillery ready for the field, were in the habit of calling him an
usurper, and of drinking to his speedy downfall.

Could any government be safe which was hated and betrayed by its own servants? And was not the
English government exposed to the dangers which, even if all its servants were true, might well excite serious
apprehensions? A disputed succession, war with France, war in Scotland, war in Ireland, was
not all this enough without treachery in every arsenal and in every custom house? There must
be an oath drawn in language too precise to be explained away, in language which no Jacobite could repeat
without the consciousness that he was perjuring himself. Though the zealots of indefeasible hereditary
right had in general no objection to swear allegiance to William, they would probably not choose to
abjure James. On such grounds as these, an Abjuration Bill of extreme severity was brought into
the House of Commons. It was proposed to enact that every person who held any office, civil, military,
or spiritual, should, on pain of deprivation, solemnly abjure the exiled King; that the oath of abjuration
might be tendered by any justice of the peace to any subject of their Majesties; and that, if it were
refused, the recusant should be sent to prison, and should lie there as long as he continued obstinate.
The severity of this last provision was generally and most justly blamed. To turn every ignorant
meddling magistrate into a state inquisitor, to insist that a plain man, who lived peaceably,
who obeyed the laws, who paid his taxes, who had never held and who did not expect ever to hold
any office, and who had never troubled his head about problems of political philosophy, should
declare, under the sanction of an oath, a decided opinion on a point about which the most learned
Doctors of the age had written whole libraries of controversial books, and to send him to rot
in a gaol if he could not bring himself to swear, would surely have been the height of tyranny.
The clause which required public functionaries to abjure the deposed
King was not open to the same objections.

Yet even against this clause some weighty arguments were urged. A man, it was said, who has an honest heart
and a sound understanding is sufficiently bound by the present oath. Every such man, when he swears
to be faithful and to bear true allegiance to King William, does, by necessary implication, abjure
King James. There may doubtless be among the servants of the State, and even
among the ministers of the Church, some persons who have no sense of
honour or religion, and who are ready to forswear themselves for lucre.
There may be others who have contracted the pernicious habit of quibbling
away the most sacred obligations of morality, and who have convinced
themselves that they can innocently make, with a mental reservation,
a promise which it would be sinful to make without such a reservation.

Against these two classes of Jacobites it is true that the present test affords no security.
But will the new test, will any test, be more efficacious? Will a person who has no conscience,
or a person whose conscience can be set at rest by immoral sophistry, hesitate to repeat any
phrase that you can dictate? The former will kiss the book without any scruple at all. The scruples
of the latter will be very easily removed. He now swears allegiance to one King with a mental reservation.
He will then abjure the other King with a mental reservation. Do not flatter yourselves that the ingenuity of
lawgivers will ever devise an oath which the ingenuity of casuists will not evade. What indeed
is the value of any oath in such a matter? Among the many lessons which the troubles of the last generation
have left us none is more plain than this, that no form of words, however precise, no imprecation,
however awful, ever saved, or ever will save, a government from destruction, Was not the Solemn
League and Covenant burned by the common hangman amidst the huzzas of tens of thousands who had themselves
subscribed it? Among the statesmen and warriors who bore the chief part in restoring Charles the
Second, how many were there who had not repeatedly abjured him? Nay, is it not well known that
some of those persons boastfully affirmed that, if they had not abjured him, they never could have
restored him? The debates were sharp; and the issue during a short time seemed doubtful; for some
of the Tories who were in office were unwilling to give a vote which might be thought to indicate
that they were lukewarm in the cause of the King whom they served. William, however, took care
to let it be understood that he had no wish to impose a new test
on his subjects.

A few words from him decided the event of the conflict. The bill was rejected thirty-six hours after
it had been brought in by a hundred and ninety-two votes to a hundred and sixty-five, [613] Even
after this defeat the Whigs pertinaciously returned to the attack. Having failed in one House they
renewed the battle in the other. Five days after the Abjuration Bill had been thrown out in
the Commons, another Abjuration Bill, somewhat milder, but still very severe, was laid on the
table of the Lords, [614] What was now proposed was that no person should sit in either House
of Parliament or hold any office, civil, military, or judicial, without making a declaration
that he would stand by William and Mary against James and James's
adherents.

Every male in the kingdom who had attained the age of sixteen was to make the same declaration before
a certain day. If he failed to do so he was to pay double taxes and to be incapable of exercising
the elective franchise. On the day fixed for the second reading, the King came down to the
House of Peers. He gave his assent in form to several laws, unrobed, took his seat on a chair
of state which had been placed for him, and listened with much interest to the debate. To the general
surprise, two noblemen who had been eminently zealous for the Revolution
spoke against the proposed test.

Lord Wharton, a Puritan who had fought for the Long Parliament, said, with amusing simplicity, that he
was a very old man, that he had lived through troubled times, that he had taken a great many
oaths in his day, and that he was afraid that he had not kept them all. He prayed that the sin
might not be laid to his charge; and he declared that he could not consent to lay any more snares
for his own soul and for the souls of his neighbours. The Earl of Macclesfield,
the captain of the English volunteers who had accompanied William from
Helvoetsluys to Torbay, declared that he was much in the same case
with Lord Wharton.

Marlborough supported the bill. He wondered, he said, that it should be opposed by Macclesfield, who
had borne so preeminent a part in the Revolution. Macclesfield, irritated by the charge of inconsistency,
retorted with terrible severity: "The noble Earl," he said, "exaggerates
the share which I had in the deliverance of our country.

I was ready, indeed, and always shall be ready, to venture my life in defence of her laws and liberties.
But there are lengths to which, even for the sake of her laws and liberties, I could never go.
I only rebelled against a bad King; there were those who did much more." Marlborough, though
not easily discomposed, could not but feel the edge of this sarcasm; William looked displeased;
and the aspect of the whole House was troubled and gloomy. It was resolved by fifty-one votes
to forty that the bill should be committed; and it was committed, but never reported. After many
hard struggles between the Whigs headed by Shrewsbury and the Tories headed by Caermarthen, it
was so much mutilated that it retained little more than its name, and
did not seem to those who had introduced it to be worth any further
contest, [615] The discomfiture of the Whigs was completed by a communication
from the King.

Caermarthen appeared in the House of Lords bearing in his hand a parchment signed by William. It
was an Act of Grace for political offences. Between an Act of Grace originating with the Sovereign
and an Act of Indemnity originating with the Estates of the Realm there are some remarkable distinctions.
An Act of Indemnity passes through all the stages through which other laws pass, and may, during
its progress, be amended by either House. An Act of Grace is received with peculiar marks of respect,
is read only once by the Lords and once by the Commons, and must be either rejected altogether
or accepted as it stands, [616] William had not ventured to submit such an Act to the preceding
Parliament. But in the new Parliament he was certain of a majority. The minority gave no trouble.
The stubborn spirit which had, during two sessions, obstructed the
progress of the Bill of Indemnity had been at length broken by defeats
and humiliations.

Both Houses stood up uncovered while the Act of Grace was read, and gave their sanction to it without
one dissentient voice. There would not have been this unanimity had not a few great criminals
been excluded from the benefits of the amnesty. Foremost among them stood the surviving members
of the High Court of Justice which had sate on Charles the First. With these ancient men were joined
the two nameless executioners who had done their office, with masked faces, on the scaffold
before the Banqueting House. None knew who they were, or of what
rank.

It was probable that they had been long dead. Yet it was thought necessary to declare that, if even
now, after the lapse of forty-one years, they should be discovered,
they would still be liable to the punishment of their great crime.

Perhaps it would hardly have been thought necessary to mention these
men, if the animosities of the preceding generation had not been rekindled
by the recent appearance of Ludlow in England.

About thirty of the agents of the tyranny of James were left to the law. With these exceptions,
all political offences, committed before the day on which the royal signature was affixed
to the Act, were covered with a general oblivion, [617] Even the criminals who were by name excluded
had little to fear. Many of them were in foreign countries; and those who were in England were well
assured that, unless they committed some new fault, they would not be molested. The Act of Grace
the nation owed to William alone; and it is one of his noblest and purest titles to renown. From
the commencement of the civil troubles of the seventeenth century down to the Revolution, every victory
gained by either party had been followed by a sanguinary proscription. When the Roundheads triumphed over
the Cavaliers, when the Cavaliers triumphed over the Roundheads, when the fable of the Popish plot
gave the ascendency to the Whigs, when the detection of the Rye House
Plot transferred the ascendency to the Tories, blood, and more blood,
and still more blood had flowed.

Every great explosion and every great recoil of public feeling had been accompanied by severities
which, at the time, the predominant faction loudly applauded, but which, on a calm review,
history and posterity have condemned. No wise and humane man, whatever may be his political opinions,
now mentions without reprehension the death either of Laud or of Vane, either of Stafford or of
Russell. Of the alternate butcheries the last and the worst is that which is inseparably associated
with the names of James and Jeffreys. The future Critic, whatever his
new thought may be, who considers this of Dante to have been all got up as an Allegory, will
commit one sore mistake!--Paganism we recognized as a veracious expression of the earnest awe-struck
feeling of man towards the Universe; veracious, true once, and still not without worth for
us. But mark here the difference of Paganism and Christianism; one great difference. Paganism
emblemed chiefly the Operations of Nature; the destinies, efforts, combinations, vicissitudes
of things and men in this world; Christianism emblemed the Law of Human Duty, the Moral Law
of Man. One was for the sensuous nature: a rude helpless utterance of the first Thought of
men,--the chief recognized virtue, Courage, Superiority to Fear. The other was not for the
sensuous nature, but for the moral. What a progress is here, if in that one respect only--!

And so in this Dante, as we said, had ten silent centuries, in a very strange way, found a
voice. The Divina Commedia is of Dante's writing; yet in truth it belongs to ten Christian
centuries, only the finishing of it is Dante's. So always. The craftsman there, the smith with
that metal of his, with these tools, with these cunning methods,--how little of all he does
is properly his work! All past inventive men work there with him;--as indeed with all of us,
in all things. Dante is the spokesman of the Middle Ages; the Thought they lived by stands
here, in everlasting music. The soil has turned out so favourable for the vine, that in general
there are more grapes than leaves, and the bundles are very large, even from two to four spans
long. They have likewise the black Pergola grape, without stones, in great perfection; and so
well is the climate adapted to this culture, that they begin their
vintage about Easter, or at least by the octave after.

We sailed from Madeira, following a southerly course, and arrived at the Canary islands, which are at the
distance of about 320 miles from Madeira. There are seven of these islands in all, four of
which have been settled by the Christians, Lançerotta, Fuerteventura, Gomera, and Ferro; over
which Herrera [10], a Spanish gentleman, is lord. In the one sense and in the other, are we not right glad to possess it? As I calculate,
it may last yet for long thousands of years. For the thing that is uttered from the inmost
parts of a man's soul, differs altogether from what is uttered by the outer part. The outer
is of the day, under the empire of mode; the outer passes away, in swift endless changes; the
inmost is the same yesterday, to-day and forever. True souls, in all generations of the world,
who look on this Dante, will find a brotherhood in him; the deep sincerity of his thoughts,
his woes and hopes, will speak likewise to their sincerity; they will feel that this Dante
too was a brother. Napoleon in Saint Helena is charmed with the genial veracity of old Homer.
The oldest Hebrew Prophet, under a vesture the most diverse from ours, does yet, because he
speaks from the heart of man, speak to all men's hearts. It is the one sole secret of continuing
long memorable. Dante, for depth of sincerity, is like an antique Prophet too; his words, like
theirs, come from his very heart. One need not wonder if it were predicted that his Poem might
be the most enduring thing our Europe has yet made; for nothing so endures as a truly spoken
word. It was not the fault of the King that the knowledge and the zeal, which, combined, make a valuable
servant of the state must at that time be had separately or not at all. If he employed men of one
party, there was great risk of mistakes. If he employed men of the other party, there was great
risk of treachery. If he employed men of both parties, there was still some risk of mistakes; there
was still some risk of treachery; and to these risks was added the certainty of dissension. He
might join Whigs and Tories; but it was beyond his power to mix them. In the same office, at
the same desk, they were still enemies, and agreed only in murmuring at the Prince who tried
to mediate between them. It was inevitable that, in such circumstances, the administration,
fiscal, military, naval, should be feeble and unsteady; that nothing
should be done in quite the right way or at quite the right time;
that the distractions from which scarcely any public office was exempt
should produce disasters, and that every disaster should increase
the distractions from which it had sprung.

There was indeed one department of which the business was well conducted; and that was the department
of Foreign Affairs. There William directed every thing, and, on important occasions, neither asked
the advice nor employed the agency of any English politician. One invaluable assistant he had,
Anthony Heinsius, who, a few weeks after the Revolution had been accomplished, became Pensionary
of Holland. Heinsius had entered public life as a member of that party which was jealous of the power
of the House of Orange, and desirous to be on friendly terms with France. But he had been sent
in 1681 on a diplomatic mission to Versailles; and a short residence there had produced a complete change in
his views. On a near acquaintance, he was alarmed by the power and provoked by the insolence of that
Court of which, while he contemplated it only at a distance, he had formed a favourable opinion.
He found that his country was despised. He saw his religion persecuted. His official character
did not save him from some personal affronts which, to the latest day of his long career, he never
forgot. He went home a devoted adherent of William and a mortal enemy
of Lewis.

[76] The office of Pensionary, always important, was peculiarly important when the Stadtholder
was absent from the Hague.

Had the politics of Heinsius been still what they once were, all the great designs of William
might have been frustrated. But happily there was between these two eminent men a perfect friendship
which, till death dissolved it, appears never to have been interrupted for one moment by suspicion
or ill humour. On all large questions of European policy they cordially agreed. They corresponded
assiduously and most unreservedly. For though William was slow to give his confidence, yet,
when he gave it, he gave it entire. The correspondence is still extant, and is most honourable
to both. The King's letters would alone suffice to prove that he was one of the greatest statesmen
whom Europe has produced. While he lived, the Pensionary was content to be the most obedient,
the most trusty, and the most discreet of servants. But, after the death of the master, the servant
proved himself capable of supplying with eminent ability the master's place, and was renowned
throughout Europe as one of the great Triumvirate which humbled the pride of Lewis the Fourteenth.
[77] The foreign policy of England, directed immediately by William
in close concert with Heinsius, was, at this time, eminently skilful
and successful.

But in every other part of the administration the evils arising from the mutual animosity of factions
were but too plainly discernible. Nor was this all. To the evils arising from the mutual animosity
of factions were added other evils arising from the mutual animosity of sects. The year 1689
is a not less important epoch in the ecclesiastical than in the civil history of England. In that
year was granted the first legal indulgence to Dissenters.

In that year was made the last serious attempt to bring the Presbyterians within the pale of
the Church of England. From that year dates a new schism, made, in defiance of ancient precedents,
by men who had always professed to regard schism with peculiar abhorrence, and ancient precedents
with peculiar veneration. In that year began the long struggle between two great parties of
conformists. Those parties indeed had, under various forms, existed within the Anglican communion
ever since the Reformation; but till after the Revolution they did not appear marshalled in regular and
permanent order of battle against each other, and were therefore not known by established names.
Some time after the accession of William they began to be called the
High Church party and the Low Church party; and, long before the end of
his reign, these appellations were in common use.

[78] In the summer of 1688 the breaches which had long divided the great body of English Protestants
had seemed to be almost closed.

Disputes
about Bishops and Synods, written prayers and extemporaneous prayers, white gowns and black
gowns, sprinkling and dipping, kneeling and sitting, had been for a short space intermitted. The serried
array which was then drawn up against Popery measured the whole of the vast interval which separated
Sancroft from Bunyan. Prelates recently conspicuous as persecutors now declared themselves friends
of religious liberty, and exhorted their clergy to live in a constant interchange of hospitality and
of kind offices with the separatists. Separatists, on the other hand, who had recently considered
mitres and lawn sleeves as the livery of Antichrist, were putting candles in windows and throwing
faggots on bonfires in honour of the prelates. These feelings continued to grow till they attained
their greatest height on the memorable day on which the common oppressor
finally quitted Whitehall, and on which an innumerable multitude,
tricked out in orange ribands, welcomed the common deliverer to Saint
James's. When the clergy of London came, headed by Compton, to express
their gratitude to him by whose instrumentality God had wrought salvation
for the Church and the State, the procession was swollen by some eminent
nonconformist divines.

It was
delightful to many good men to learn that pious and learned Presbyterian ministers had walked in
the train of a Bishop, had been greeted by him with fraternal kindness, and had been announced
by him in the presence chamber as his dear and respected friends, separated from him indeed by some
differences of opinion on minor points, but united to him by Christian
charity and by common zeal for the essentials of the reformed faith. There
had never before been such a day in England; and there has never
since been such a day.

The tide of feeling was already on the turn; and the ebb was even more rapid than the flow had
been. In a very few hours the High Churchman began to feel tenderness for the enemy whose tyranny
was now no longer feared, and dislike of the allies whose services were now no longer needed.
It was easy to gratify both feelings by imputing to the dissenters the misgovernment of the exiled
King. His Majesty-such was now the language of too many Anglican divines-would have been an excellent
sovereign had he not been too confiding, too forgiving. He had put his trust in a class of men
who hated his office, his family, his person, with implacable hatred. He had ruined himself in the vain
attempt to conciliate them. He had relieved them, in defiance of law and of the unanimous sense
of the old royalist party, from the pressure of the penal code; had allowed them to worship
God publicly after their own mean and tasteless fashion; had admitted them to the bench of justice
and to the Privy Council; had gratified them with fur robes, gold chains, salaries, and pensions. In return
for his liberality, these people, once so uncouth in demeanour, once so savage in opposition even to legitimate authority,
had become the most abject of flatterers. They had continued to applaud and encourage him when
the most devoted friends of his family had retired in shame and sorrow from his palace. Who
had more foully sold the religion and liberty of his country than Titus? Who had been more zealous for
the dispensing power than Alsop? Who had urged on the persecution of the seven Bishops more fiercely than
Lobb?

What chaplain impatient for a deanery had ever, even when preaching in the royal presence on the thirtieth
of January or the twenty-ninth of May, uttered adulation more gross than might easily be found
in those addresses by which dissenting congregations had testified their gratitude for the illegal Declaration
of Indulgence? Was it strange that a prince who had never studied law books should have believed
that he was only exercising his rightful prerogative, when he was thus encouraged by a faction
which had always ostentatiously professed hatred of arbitrary power? Misled by such guidance,
he had gone further and further in the wrong path: he had at length estranged from him hearts which would
once have poured forth their best blood in his defence: he had left himself no supporters except his
old foes; and, when the day of peril came, he had found that the feeling of his old foes towards
him was still what it had been when they had attempted to rob him of his inheritance, and when they
had plotted against his life. Every man of sense had long known that the sectaries bore no love
to monarchy. It had now been found that they bore as little love to freedom. To trust them
with power would be an error not less fatal to the nation than to the throne. If, in order to redeem
pledges somewhat rashly given, it should be thought necessary to grant them relief, every concession
ought to be accompanied by limitations and precautions. Above all, no man who was an enemy to the
ecclesiastical constitution of the realm ought to be permitted to bear any part in the civil
government. Between the nonconformists and the rigid conformists stood the Low Church party. That
party contained, as it still contains, two very different elements, a Puritan element and a Latitudinarian
element. On almost every question, however, relating either to ecclesiastical polity or to the ceremonial
of public worship, the Puritan Low Churchman and the Latitudinarian Low Churchman were perfectly
agreed. They saw in the existing polity and in the existing ceremonial no defect, no blemish, which could
make it their duty to become dissenters.

Nevertheless
they held that both the polity and the ceremonial were means and not ends, and that the essential
spirit of Christianity might exist without episcopal orders and without a Book of Common Prayer. They
had, while James was on the throne, been mainly instrumental in forming
the great Protestant coalition against Popery and tyranny; and they continued
in 1689 to hold the same conciliatory language which they had held
in 1688.

They gently blamed the scruples of the nonconformists. It was undoubtedly a great weakness
to imagine that there could be any sin in wearing a white robe, in tracing a cross, in kneeling
at the rails of an altar. But the highest authority had given the plainest directions as
to the manner in which such weakness was to be treated. The weak brother was not to be judged:
he was not to be despised: believers who had stronger minds were commanded to soothe him by large
compliances, and carefully to remove out of his path every stumbling block which could cause him
to offend. An apostle had declared that, though he had himself no misgivings about the use of
animal food or of wine, he would eat herbs and drink water rather than give scandal to the feeblest
of his flock. What would he have thought of ecclesiastical rulers who, for the sake of a vestment,
a gesture, a posture, had not only torn the Church asunder, but had filled all the gaols of England
with men of orthodox faith and saintly life? The reflections thrown by the High Churchmen on
the recent conduct of the dissenting body the Low Churchmen pronounced to be grossly unjust. The wonder
was, not that a few nonconformists should have accepted with thanks an indulgence which, illegal
as it was, had opened the doors of their prisons and given security to their hearths, but that
the nonconformists generally should have been true to the cause of a constitution from the benefits
of which they had been long excluded. It was most unfair to impute to a great party the faults
of a few individuals. Even among the Bishops of the Established Church James had found tools
and sycophants. The conduct of Cartwright and Parker had been much more inexcusable than that of
Alsop and Lobb. Yet those who held the dissenters answerable for the errors of Alsop and Lobb
would doubtless think it most unreasonable to hold the Church answerable
for the far deeper guilt of Cartwright and Parker. The Low Church
clergymen were a minority, and not a large minority, of their profession: but
their weight was much more than proportioned to their numbers: for
they mustered strong in the capital: they had great influence there;
and the average of intellect and knowledge was higher among them than
among their order generally.

We should probably overrate their numerical strength, if we were to estimate them at a tenth
part of the priesthood. Yet it will scarcely be denied that there were among them as many men of
distinguished eloquence and learning as could be found in the other nine tenths. Among the laity
who conformed to the established religion the parties were not unevenly balanced. Indeed the line
which separated them deviated very little from the line which separated
the Whigs and the Tories.

In the House of Commons, which had been elected when the Whigs were triumphant, the Low Church
party greatly preponderated. In the Lords there was an almost exact equipoise; and very slight circumstances
sufficed to turn the scale. The head of the Low Church party was the King. He had been bred a Presbyterian:
he was, from rational conviction, a Latitudinarian; and personal ambition, as well as higher
motives, prompted him to act as mediator among Protestant sects. He was bent on effecting three
great reforms in the laws touching ecclesiastical matters. His first object was to obtain for
dissenters permission to celebrate their worship in freedom and security. His second object
was to make such changes in the Anglican ritual and polity as, without offending those to
whom that ritual and polity were dear, might conciliate the moderate nonconformists. His third object
was to throw open civil offices to Protestants without distinction of sect. All his three objects
were good; but the first only was at that time attainable.

He came too late for the second, and too early for the third. A few days after his accession,
he took a step which indicated, in a manner not to be mistaken, his sentiments touching ecclesiastical
polity and public worship.

He found only one see unprovided with a Bishop. Seth Ward, who had during many years had charge
of the diocese of Salisbury, and who had been honourably distinguished as one of the founders
of the Royal Society, having long survived his faculties, died while the country was agitated
by the elections for the Convention, without knowing that great events, of which not the least
important had passed under his own roof, had saved his Church and his country from ruin. The choice
of a successor was no light matter. That choice would inevitably be considered by the country
as a prognostic of the highest import.

The King too might well be perplexed by the number of divines whose erudition, eloquence, courage,
and uprightness had been conspicuously displayed during the contentions of the last three years. The
preference was given to Burnet. His claims were doubtless great. Yet William might have had a more tranquil
reign if he had postponed for a time the well earned promotion of his chaplain, and had bestowed
the first great spiritual preferment, which, after the Revolution, fell to the disposal of the
Crown, on some eminent theologian, attached to the new settlement, yet not generally hated by
the clergy. Unhappily the name of Burnet was odious to the great majority of the Anglican
priesthood. Though, as respected doctrine, he by no means belonged to the extreme section of the
Latitudinarian party, he was popularly regarded as the personification of the Latitudinarian spirit.
This distinction he owed to the prominent place which he held in literature and politics, to the
readiness of his tongue and of his pert, and above all to the frankness
and boldness of his nature, frankness which could keep no secret,
and boldness which flinched from no danger.

He had formed but a low estimate of the character of his clerical brethren considered as a body; and,
with his usual indiscretion, he frequently suffered his opinion to escape him. They hated him in
return with a hatred which has descended to their successors, and which, after the lapse of
a century and a half, does not appear to languish. As soon as the King's decision was known, the question
was every where asked, What will the Archbishop do? Sancroft had absented himself from the
Convention: he had refused to sit in the Privy Council: he had ceased to confirm, to ordain,
and to institute; and he was seldom seen out of the walls of his palace at Lambeth. He, on
all occasions, professed to think himself still bound by his old oath of allegiance. Burnet he
regarded as a scandal to the priesthood, a Presbyterian in a surplice. The prelate who should
lay hands on that unworthy head would commit more than one great sin. He would, in a sacred
place, and before a great congregation of the faithful, at once acknowledge an usurper as a King,
and confer on a schismatic the character of a Bishop. During some time Sancroft positively declared
that he would not obey the precept of William. Lloyd of Saint Asaph, who was the common friend
of the Archbishop and of the Bishop elect, intreated and expostulated
in vain.

Nottingham, who, of all the laymen connected with the new government, stood best with the clergy, tried
his influence, but to no better purpose. The Jacobites said every where that they were sure of the
good old Primate; that he had the spirit of a martyr; that he was
determined to brave, in the cause of the Monarchy and of the Church,
the utmost rigour of those laws with which the obsequious parliaments
of the sixteenth century had fenced the Royal Supremacy.

He did in truth hold out long. But at the last moment his heart failed him, and he looked round him
for some mode of escape. Fortunately, as childish scruples often disturbed his conscience, childish
expedients often quieted it. A more childish expedient than that to which he now resorted is not to
be found in all the tones of the casuists. He would not himself bear a part in the service. He
would not publicly pray for the Prince and Princess as King and Queen. He would not call for their
mandate, order it to be read, and then proceed to obey it. But he issued a commission empowering
any three of his suffragans to commit, in his name, and as his delegates, the sins which he did not
choose to commit in person. The reproaches of all parties soon made him ashamed of himself. He then
tried to suppress the evidence of his fault by means more discreditable than the fault itself.
He abstracted from among the public records of which he was the guardian the instrument by
which he had authorised his brethren to act for him, and was with difficulty induced to give
it up. [79] Burnet however had, under the authority of this instrument, been consecrated. When he next
waited on Mary, she reminded him of the conversations which they had held at the Hague about
the high duties and grave responsibility of Bishops. "I hope," she said, "that you will put
your notions in practice." Her hope was not disappointed. Whatever may be thought of Burnet's
opinions touching civil and ecclesiastical polity, or of the temper and judgment which he showed
in defending those opinions, the utmost malevolence of faction could
not venture to deny that he tended his flock with a zeal, diligence,
and disinterestedness worthy of the purest ages of the Church.

His jurisdiction extended over Wiltshire and Berkshire. These counties he divided into districts
which he sedulously visited. About two months of every summer he passed in preaching, catechizing,
and confirming daily from church to church. When he died there was no corner of his diocese in
which the people had not had seven or eight opportunities of receiving his instructions and of
asking his advice. The worst weather, the worst roads, did not prevent him from discharging these
duties. On one occasion, when the floods were out, he exposed his life to imminent risk rather
than disappoint a rural congregation which was in expectation of
a discourse from the Bishop.

The poverty of the inferior clergy was a constant cause of uneasiness to his kind and generous heart.
He was indefatigable and at length successful in his attempts to obtain for them from the Crown
that grant which is known by the name of Queen Anne's Bounty.

We have no room to speak of Shakspeare's individual works; though perhaps there is much still
waiting to be said on that head. Had we, for instance, all his plays reviewed as Hamlet, in
Wilhelm Meister, is! A thing which might, one day, be done. August Wilhelm Schlegel has a remark
on his Historical Plays, Henry Fifth and the others, which is worth remembering. He calls them
a kind of National Epic. Marlborough, you recollect, said, he knew no English History but what
he had learned from Shakspeare. There are really, if we look to it, few as memorable Histories.
The great salient points are admirably seized; all rounds itself off, into a kind of rhythmic
coherence; it is, as Schlegel says, epic;--as indeed all delineation by a great thinker will
be. There are right beautiful things in those Pieces, which indeed together form one beautiful
thing. A true English heart breathes, calm and strong, through the whole business; not boisterous,
protrusive; all the better for that. There is a sound in it like the ring of steel. This man
too had a right stroke in him, had it come to that!

But I will say, of Shakspeare's works generally, that we have no full impress of him there;
even as full as we have of many men. His works are so many windows, through which we see a
glimpse of the world that was in him. All his works seem, comparatively speaking, cursory,
imperfect, written under cramping circumstances; giving only here and there a note of the full
utterance of the man. Passages there are that come upon you like splendor out of Heaven; bursts
of radiance, illuminating the very heart of the thing: you say, "That is true, spoken once
and forever; wheresoever and whensoever there is an open human soul, that will be recognized
as true!" Such bursts, however, make us feel that the surrounding matter is not radiant; that
it is, in part, temporary, conventional. Alas, Shakspeare had to write for the Globe Playhouse:
his great soul had to crush itself, as it could, into that and no other mould. It was with
him, then, as it is with us all. No man works save under conditions. The sculptor cannot set
his own free Thought before us; but his Thought as he could translate it into the stone that
was given, with the tools that were given. Disjecta membra are all that we find of any Poet,
or of any man.

Whoever looks intelligently at this Shakspeare may recognize that he too was a Prophet, in
his way; of an insight analogous to the Prophetic, though he took it up in another strain.
Nature seemed to this man also divine; unspeakable, deep as Tophet, high as Heaven; "We are
such stuff as Dreams are made of!" That scroll in Westminster Abbey, which few read with understanding,
is of the depth of any seer. But the man sang; did not preach, except musically. We called
Dante the melodious Priest of Middle-Age Catholicism. May we not call Shakspeare the still
more melodious Priest of a true Catholicism, the "Universal Church" of the Future and of all
times? No narrow superstition, harsh asceticism, intolerance, fanatical fierceness or perversion:
a Revelation, so far as it goes, that such a thousand-fold hidden beauty and divineness dwells
in all Nature; which let all men worship as they can! We may say without offence, that there
rises a kind of universal Psalm out of this Shakspeare too; not unfit to make itself heard
among the still more sacred Psalms. Not in disharmony with these, if we understood them, but
in harmony!--I cannot call this Shakspeare a "Sceptic," as some do; his indifference to the
creeds and theological quarrels of his time misleading them. No: neither unpatriotic, though
he says little about his Patriotism; nor sceptic, though he says little about his Faith. Such
"indifference" was the fruit of his greatness withal: his whole heart was in his own grand
sphere of worship (we may call it such); these other controversies, vitally important to other
men, were not vital to him.

But call it worship, call it what you will, is it not a right glorious thing, and set of things,
this that Shakspeare has brought us? For myself, I feel that there is actually a kind of sacredness
in the fact of such a man being sent into this Earth. Is he not an eye to us all; a blessed
heaven-sent Bringer of Light?--And, at bottom, was it not perhaps far better that this Shakspeare,
every way an unconscious man, was conscious of no Heavenly message? He did not feel, like Mahomet,
because he saw into those internal Splendors, that he specially was the "Prophet of God:" and
was he not greater than Mahomet in that? Greater; and also, if we compute strictly, as we did
in Dante's case, more successful. It was intrinsically an error that notion of Mahomet's, of
his supreme Prophethood; and has come down to us inextricably involved in error to this day;
dragging along with it such a coil of fables, impurities, intolerances, as makes it a questionable
step for me here and now to say, as I have done, that Mahomet was a true Speaker at all, and
not rather an ambitious charlatan, perversity and simulacrum; no Speaker, but a Babbler! Even
in Arabia, as I compute, Mahomet will have exhausted himself and become obsolete, while this
Shakspeare, this Dante may still be young;--while this Shakspeare may still pretend to be a
Priest of Mankind, of Arabia as of other places, for unlimited periods to come!

Compared with any speaker or singer one knows, even with Aeschylus or Homer, why should he
not, for veracity and universality, last like them? He is sincere as they; reaches deep down
like them, to the universal and perennial. But as for Mahomet, I think it had been better for
him not to be so conscious! Alas, poor Mahomet; all that he was conscious of was a mere error;
a futility and triviality,--as indeed such ever is. The truly great in him too was the unconscious:
that he was a wild Arab lion of the desert, and did speak out with that great thunder-voice
of his, not by words which he thought to be great, but by actions, by feelings, by a history
which were great! His Koran has become a stupid piece of prolix absurdity; we do not believe,
like him, that God wrote that! The Great Man here too, as always, is a Force of Nature. Whatsoever
is truly great in him springs up from the inarticulate deeps.

Well: this is our poor Warwickshire Peasant, who rose to be Manager of a Playhouse, so that
he could live without begging; whom the Earl of Southampton cast some kind glances on; whom
Sir Thomas Lucy, many thanks to him, was for sending to the Treadmill! We did not account him
a god, like Odin, while he dwelt with us;--on which point there were much to be said. But I
will say rather, or repeat: In spite of the sad state Hero-worship now lies in, consider what
this Shakspeare has actually become among us. Which Englishman we ever made, in this land of
ours, which million of Englishmen, would we not give up rather than the Stratford Peasant?
There is no regiment of highest Dignitaries that we would sell him for. He is the grandest
thing we have yet done. For our honor among foreign nations, as an ornament to our English
Household, what item is there that we would not surrender rather than him? Consider now, if
they asked us, Will you give up your Indian Empire or your Shakspeare, you English; never have
had any Indian Empire, or never have had any Shakspeare? Really it were a grave question. Official
persons would answer doubtless in official language; but we, for our part too, should not we
be forced to answer: Indian Empire, or no Indian Empire; we cannot do without Shakspeare! Indian
Empire will go, at any rate, some day; but this Shakspeare does not go, he lasts forever with
us; we cannot give up our Shakspeare!

Nay, apart from spiritualities; and considering him merely as a real, marketable, tangibly
useful possession. England, before long, this Island of ours, will hold but a small fraction
of the English: in America, in New Holland, east and west to the very Antipodes, there will
be a Saxondom covering great spaces of the Globe. And now, what is it that can keep all these
together into virtually one Nation, so that they do not fall out and fight, but live at peace,
in brotherlike intercourse, helping one another? This is justly regarded as the greatest practical
problem, the thing all manner of sovereignties and governments are here to accomplish: what
is it that will accomplish this? Acts of Parliament, administrative prime-ministers cannot.
America is parted from us, so far as Parliament could part it. Call it not fantastic, for there
is much reality in it: Here, I say, is an English King, whom no time or chance, Parliament
or combination of Parliaments, can dethrone! This King Shakspeare, does not he shine, in crowned
sovereignty, over us all, as the noblest, gentlest, yet strongest of rallying-signs; indestructible;
really more valuable in that point of view than any other means or appliance whatsoever? We
can fancy him as radiant aloft over all the Nations of Englishmen, a thousand years hence.
From Paramatta, from New York, wheresoever, under what sort of Parish-Constable soever, English
men and women are, they will say to one another: "Yes, this Shakspeare is ours; we produced
him, we speak and think by him; we are of one blood and kind with him." The most common-sense
politician, too, if he pleases, may think of that.

Yes, truly, it is a great thing for a Nation that it get an articulate voice; that it produce
a man who will speak forth melodiously what the heart of it means! Italy, for example, poor
Italy lies dismembered, scattered asunder, not appearing in any protocol or treaty as a unity
at all; yet the noble Italy is actually one: Italy produced its Dante; Italy can speak! The
Czar of all the Russias, he is strong with so many bayonets, Cossacks and cannons; and does
a great feat in keeping such a tract of Earth politically together; but he cannot yet speak.
Something great in him, but it is a dumb greatness. He has had no voice of genius, to be heard
of all men and times. He must learn to speak. He is a great dumb monster hitherto. His cannons
and Cossacks will all have rusted into nonentity, while that Dante's voice is still audible.
The Nation that has a Dante is bound together as no dumb Russia can be.--We must here end what
we had to say of the Hero-Poet.

LECTURE IV. THE HERO AS PRIEST. LUTHER; REFORMATION: KNOX; PURITANISM.

[May 15, 1840.]

Our present discourse is to be of the Great Man as Priest. We have repeatedly endeavored to
explain that all sorts of Heroes are intrinsically of the same material; that given a great
soul, open to the Divine Significance of Life, then there is given a man fit to speak of this,
to sing of this, to fight and work for this, in a great, victorious, enduring manner; there
is given a Hero,--the outward shape of whom will depend on the time and the environment he
finds himself in. The Priest too, as I understand it, is a kind of Prophet; in him too there
is required to be a light of inspiration, as we must name it. He presides over the worship
of the people; is the Uniter of them with the Unseen Holy. He is the spiritual Captain of the
people; as the Prophet is their spiritual King with many captains: he guides them heavenward,
by wise guidance through this Earth and its work. The ideal of him is, that he too be what
we can call a voice from the unseen Heaven; interpreting, even as the Prophet did, and in a
more familiar manner unfolding the same to men. The unseen Heaven,--the "open secret of the
Universe,"--which so few have an eye for! Then it gradually comes out to view on the right hand,
separates from the sun up to a certain distance as before, and again recedes beyond the sun, and
is for the time being once more lost to view.

To these various positions technical names are given. When the inferior planet is on the far
side of the sun from us, it is said to be in Superior Conjunction.

When it has drawn as far as it can to the left hand, and is then as east as possible of the
sun, it is said to be at its Greatest Eastern Elongation. Again, when it is passing nearest to us,
it is said to be in Inferior Conjunction; and, finally, when it has drawn as far as it can
to the right hand, it is spoken of as being at its Greatest Western Elongation (see Fig. 11,
p. 148).

The continual variation in the distance of an interior planet from us, during its revolution
around the sun, will of course be productive of great alterations in its apparent size. At superior
conjunction it ought, being then farthest away, to show the smallest disc; while at inferior conjunction,
being the nearest, it should look much larger. When at greatest elongation, whether eastern or
western, it should naturally present an appearance midway in size
between the two.

From the above considerations one would be inclined to assume that the best time for studying
the surface of an interior planet with the telescope is when it is at inferior conjunction, or,
nearest to us. But that this is not the case will at once appear if we consider that the sunlight
is then falling upon the side away from us, leaving the side which is towards us unillumined.
In superior conjunction, on the other hand, the light falls full
upon the side of the planet facing us; but the disc is then so small-looking,
and our view besides is so dazzled by the proximity of the sun, that
observations are of little avail.

In the elongations, however, the sunlight comes from the side, and so we see one half of the
planet lit up; the right half at eastern elongation, and the left half at western elongation. Piecing
together the results given us at these more favourable views, we are enabled, bit by bit, to gather
some small knowledge concerning the surface of an inferior planet.

From these considerations it will be seen at once that the inferior planets show various phases
comparable to the waxing and waning of our moon in its monthly round. Superior conjunction
is, in fact, similar to full moon, and inferior conjunction to new moon; while the eastern
and western elongations may be compared respectively to the moon's first and last quarters. It will
be recollected how, when these phases were first seen by the early telescopic observers, the Copernican
theory was felt to be immensely strengthened; for it had been pointed out that if this system
were the correct one, the planets Venus and Mercury, were it possible
to see them more distinctly, would of necessity present phases like
these when viewed from the earth.

It should here be noted that the telescope was not invented until nearly seventy years after
the death of Copernicus.

The apparent swing of an inferior planet from side to side of the sun, at one time on the east side,
then passing into and lost in the sun's rays to appear once more on the west side, is the explanation
of what is meant when we speak of an evening or a morning star. An inferior planet is called an evening
star when it is at its eastern elongation, that is to say, on the left-hand of the sun; for,
being then on the eastern side, it will set after the sun sets, as both sink in their turn below the western
horizon at the close of day. Similarly, when such a planet is at its western elongation, that
is to say, to the right-hand of the sun, it will go in advance of him, and so will rise above
the eastern horizon before the sun rises, receiving therefore the designation of morning star.
In very early times, however, before any definite ideas had been come to with regard to the
celestial motions, it was generally believed that the morning and evening stars were quite distinct
bodies. Thus Venus, when a morning star, was known to the ancients under the name of Phosphorus,
or Lucifer; whereas they called it Hesperus when it was an evening
star.

Since an inferior planet circulates between us and the sun, one would be inclined to expect
that such a body, each time it passed on the side nearest to the earth, should be seen as a
black spot against the bright solar disc. Now this would most certainly be the case were the
orbit of an inferior planet in the same plane with the orbit of the earth. But we have already
seen how the orbits in the solar system, whether those of planets or of satellites, are by no
means in the one plane; and that it is for this very reason that the moon is able to pass time
after time in the direction of the sun, at the epoch known as new moon, and yet not to eclipse
him save after the lapse of several such passages. Transits, then, as the passages of an inferior
planet across the sun's disc are called, take place, for the same reason, only after certain regular
lapses of time; and, as regards the circumstances of their occurrence, are on a par with eclipses
of the sun. The latter, however, happen much more frequently, because the moon passes in the
neighbourhood of the sun, roughly speaking, once a month, whereas Venus comes to each inferior conjunction
at intervals so long apart as a year and a half, and Mercury only about every four months. From
this it will be further gathered that transits of Mercury take place much oftener than transits
of Venus.

Until recent years Transits of Venus were phenomena of great importance
to astronomers, for they furnished the best means then available of
calculating the distance of the sun from the earth.

This was arrived at through comparing the amount of apparent displacement in the planet's path across
the solar disc, when the transit was observed from widely separated stations on the earth's
surface. The last transit of Venus took place in 1882, and there will not be another until
the year 2004.

Transits of Mercury, on the other hand, are not of much scientific importance. They are of no interest
as a popular spectacle; for the dimensions of the planet are so small, that it can be seen
only with the aid of a telescope when it is in the act of crossing the sun's disc. The last
transit of Mercury took place on November 14, 1907, and there will be another on November 6,
1914.

The first person known to have observed a transit of an inferior planet was the celebrated French
philosopher, Gassendi. This was the transit of Mercury which took place on the 7th of December
1631.

The first time a transit of Venus was ever seen, so far as is known, was on the 24th of November
1639. The observer was a certain Jeremiah Horrox, curate of Hoole, near Preston, in Lancashire.
The transit in question commenced shortly before sunset, and his observations in consequence
were limited to only about half-an-hour. Horrox happened to have a great friend, one William Crabtree,
of Manchester, whom he had advised by letter to be on the look out for the phenomenon. The weather
in Crabtree's neighbourhood was cloudy, with the result that he only got a view of the transit
for about ten minutes before the sun set.

That this transit was observed at all is due entirely to the remarkable ability of Horrox. According
to the calculations of the great Kepler, no transit could take place that year (1639), as the
planet would just pass clear of the lower edge of the sun. Horrox, however, not being satisfied
with this, worked the question out for himself, and came to the conclusion that the planet
would actually traverse the lower portion of the sun's disc. The event, as we have seen, proved
him to be quite in the right.

Horrox is said to have been a veritable prodigy of astronomical skill; and had he lived longer
would, no doubt, have become very famous. Unfortunately he died about two years after his celebrated
transit, in his twenty-second year only, according to the accounts. His friend Crabtree, who
was then also a young man, is said to have been killed at the battle
of Naseby in 1645.

There is an interesting phenomenon in connection with transits which is known as the "Black Drop."
When an inferior planet has just made its way on to the face of the sun, it is usually seen
to remain for a short time as if attached to the sun's edge by what looks like a dark ligament
(see Fig. 12, p. 153). This gives to the planet for the time being an elongated appearance,
something like that of a pear; but when the ligament, which all the while keeps getting thinner
and thinner, has at last broken, the black body of the planet is seen to stand out round against
the solar disc.

This appearance may be roughly compared to the manner in which a drop of liquid (or, preferably,
of some glutinous substance) tends for a while to adhere to an object
from which it is falling.

When
the planet is in turn making its way off the face of the sun, the
ligament is again seen to form and to attach it to the sun's edge
before its due time.

The phenomenon of the black drop, or ligament, is entirely an illusion, and, broadly speaking,
of an optical origin. Something very similar will be noticed if one brings one's thumb and forefinger
slowly together against a very bright background.

This peculiar phenomenon has proved one of the greatest drawbacks to the proper observation
of transits, for it is quite impossible to note the exact instant of the planet's entrance upon
and departure from the solar disc in conditions such as these.

The black drop seems to bear a family resemblance, so to speak, to the phenomenon of Baily's
beads. In the latter instance the lunar peaks, as they approach the sun's edge, appear to lengthen
out in a similar manner and bridge the intervening space before their time, thus giving prominence
to an effect which otherwise should scarcely be noticeable.

The last transit of Mercury, which, as has been already stated, took place on November 14, 1907,
was not successfully observed by astronomers in England, on account of the cloudiness of the weather.
In France, however, Professor Moye, of Montpellier, saw it under good conditions, and mentions
that the black drop remained very conspicuous for fully a minute.

The transit was also observed in the United States, the reports from which speak of the black
drop as very "troublesome."

Before leaving the subject of transits it should be mentioned that it was in the capacity of
commander of an expedition to Otaheite, in the Pacific, to observe the transit of Venus of
June 3, 1769, that Captain Cook embarked upon the first of his celebrated
voyages.

In studying the surfaces of Venus and Mercury with the telescope, observers are, needless to
say, very much hindered by the proximity of the sun. Venus, when at the greatest elongations,
certainly draws some distance out of the glare; but her surface is, even then, so dazzlingly
bright, that the markings upon it are difficult to see. Mercury, on the other hand, is much
duller in contrast, but the disc it shows in the telescope is exceedingly small; and, in addition,
when that planet is left above the horizon for a short time after sunset, as necessarily happens after
certain intervals, the mists near the earth's surface render observation
of it very difficult.

Until
about twenty-five years ago, it was generally believed that both
these planets rotated on their axes in about twenty-four hours, a
notion, no doubt, originally founded upon an unconscious desire to
bring them into some conformity with our earth.

But Schiaparelli, observing in Italy, and Percival Lowell, in the clear skies of Arizona and Mexico,
have lately come to the conclusion that both planets rotate upon their axes in the same time
as they revolve in their orbits, [12] the result being that they turn one face ever towards the
sun in the same manner that the moon turns one face ever towards the earth-- a curious state
of things, which will be dealt with more fully when we come to treat
of our satellite.

The marked difference in the brightness between the two planets has already been alluded to.
The surface of Venus is, indeed, about five times as bright as that of Mercury. The actual brightness
of Mercury is about equivalent to that of our moon, and astronomers are, therefore, inclined
to think that it may resemble her in having a very rugged surface and practically no atmosphere.
This probable lack of atmosphere is further corroborated by two circumstances. One of these
is that when Mercury is just about to transit the face of the sun, no ring of diffused light is seen
to encircle its disc as would be the case if it possessed an atmosphere. Such a lack of atmosphere
is, indeed, only to be expected from what is known as the Kinetic Theory of Gases. According to this theory,
which is based upon the behaviour of various kinds of gas, it is found that these elements tend
to escape into space from the surface of bodies whose force of gravitation is weak. Hydrogen gas,
for example, tends to fly away from our earth, as any one may see
for himself when a balloon rises into the air.

The gravitation of the earth seems, however, powerful enough to hold down other gases, as, for
instance, those of which the air is chiefly composed, namely, oxygen and nitrogen. In due accordance
with the Kinetic theory, we find the moon and Mercury, which are much about the same size, destitute
of atmospheres. Mars, too, whose diameter is only about double that of the moon, has very little
atmosphere. We find, on the other hand, that Venus, which is about the same size as our earth,
clearly possesses an atmosphere, as just before the planet is in transit across the sun, the
outline of its dark body is seen to be surrounded by a bright ring
of light.

The results of telescopic observation show that more markings are visible on Mercury than on Venus.
The intense brilliancy of Venus is, indeed, about the same as that
of our white clouds when the sun is shining directly upon them. It
has, therefore, been supposed that the planet is thickly enveloped
in cloud, and that we do not ever see any part of its surface, except
perchance the summit of some lofty mountain projecting through the
fleecy mass. With regard to the great brilliancy of Venus, it may
be mentioned that she has frequently been seen in England, with the
naked eye in full sunshine, when at the time of her greatest brightness.

The writer has seen her thus at noonday. Needless to
say, the sky at the moment was intensely blue and clear. The orbit
of Mercury is very oval, and much more so than that of any other planet.
The consequence is that, when Mercury is nearest to the sun, the
heat which it receives is twice as great as when it is farthest away.

The orbit of Venus,
on the other hand, is in marked contrast with that of Mercury, and
is, besides, more nearly of a circular shape than that of any of
the other planets. Venus, therefore, always keeps about the same distance
from the sun, and so the heat which she receives during the course
of her year can only be subject to very slight variations. [11] In
employing the terms Inferior and Superior the writer bows to astronomical
custom, though he cannot help feeling that, in the circumstances,
Interior and Exterior would be much more appropriate.

[12]
This question is, however, uncertain, for some very recent spectroscopic observations
of Venus seem to show a rotation period of about twenty-four hours.
CHAPTER XV THE EARTH We have already seen (in Chapter I.) how, in
very early times, men naturally enough considered the earth to be
a flat plane extending to a very great distance in every direction;
but that, as years went on, certain of the Greek philosophers suspected
it to be a sphere.

At first view it might seem as if Protestantism were entirely destructive to this that we call
Hero-worship, and represent as the basis of all possible good, religious or social, for mankind.
One often hears it said that Protestantism introduced a new era, radically different from any
the world had ever seen before: the era of "private judgment," as they call it. By this revolt
against the Pope, every man became his own Pope; and learnt, among other things, that he must
never trust any Pope, or spiritual Hero-captain, any more! Whereby, is not spiritual union,
all hierarchy and subordination among men, henceforth an impossibility? So we hear it said.--Now
I need not deny that Protestantism was a revolt against spiritual sovereignties, Popes and
much else. Nay I will grant that English Puritanism, revolt against earthly sovereignties,
was the second act of it; that the enormous French Revolution itself was the third act, whereby
all sovereignties earthly and spiritual were, as might seem, abolished or made sure of abolition.
Protestantism is the grand root from which our whole subsequent European History branches out.
For the spiritual will always body itself forth in the temporal history of men; the spiritual
is the beginning of the temporal. And now, sure enough, the cry is everywhere for Liberty and
Equality, Independence and so forth; instead of Kings, Ballot-boxes and Electoral suffrages:
it seems made out that any Hero-sovereign, or loyal obedience of men to a man, in things temporal
or things spiritual, has passed away forever from the world. I should despair of the world
altogether, if so. One of my deepest convictions is, that it is not so. Without sovereigns,
true sovereigns, temporal and spiritual, I see nothing possible but an anarchy; the hatefulest
of things. But I find Protestantism, whatever anarchic democracy it have produced, to be the
beginning of new genuine sovereignty and order. I find it to be a revolt against false sovereigns;
the painful but indispensable first preparative for true sovereigns getting place among us!
This is worth explaining a little.

Let us remark, therefore, in the first place, that this of "private judgment" is, at bottom,
not a new thing in the world, but only new at that epoch of the world. There is nothing generically
new or peculiar in the Reformation; it was a return to Truth and Reality in opposition to Falsehood
and Semblance, as all kinds of Improvement and genuine Teaching are and have been. Liberty
of private judgment, if we will consider it, must at all times have existed in the world. Dante
had not put out his eyes, or tied shackles on himself; he was at home in that Catholicism of
his, a free-seeing soul in it,--if many a poor Hogstraten, Tetzel, and Dr. Eck had now become
slaves in it. Liberty of judgment? No iron chain, or outward force of any kind, could ever
compel the soul of a man to believe or to disbelieve: it is his own indefeasible light, that
judgment of his; he will reign, and believe there, by the grace of God alone! The sorriest
sophistical Bellarmine, preaching sightless faith and passive obedience, must first, by some
kind of conviction, have abdicated his right to be convinced. His "private judgment" indicated
that, as the advisablest step he could take. The right of private judgment will subsist, in
full force, wherever true men subsist. A true man believes with his whole judgment, with all
the illumination and discernment that is in him, and has always so believed. A false man, only
struggling to "believe that he believes," will naturally manage it in some other way. Protestantism
said to this latter, Woe! and to the former, Well done! At bottom, it was no new saying; it
was a return to all old sayings that ever had been said. Be genuine, be sincere: that was,
once more, the meaning of it. Mahomet believed with his whole mind; Odin with his whole mind,--he,
and all true Followers of Odinism. They, by their private judgment, had "judged "--so.

And now I venture to assert, that the exercise of private judgment, faithfully gone about,
does by no means necessarily end in selfish independence, isolation; but rather ends necessarily
in the opposite of that. It is not honest inquiry that makes anarchy; but it is error, insincerity,
half-belief and untruth that make it. A man protesting against error is on the way towards
uniting himself with all men that believe in truth. There is no communion possible among men
who believe only in hearsays. The heart of each is lying dead; has no power of sympathy even
with things,--or he would believe them and not hearsays. No sympathy even with things; how
much less with his fellow-men! He cannot unite with men; he is an anarchic man. Only in a world
of sincere men is unity possible;--and there, in the long-run, it is as good as certain.

For observe one thing, a thing too often left out of view, or rather altogether lost sight
of in this controversy: That it is not necessary a man should himself have discovered the truth
he is to believe in, and never so sincerely to believe in. A Great Man, we said, was always
sincere, as the first condition of him. But a man need not be great in order to be sincere;
that is not the necessity of Nature and all Time, but only of certain corrupt unfortunate epochs
of Time. A man can believe, and make his own, in the most genuine way, what he has received
from another;--and with boundless gratitude to that other! The merit of originality is not
novelty; it is sincerity. The believing man is the original man; whatsoever he believes, he
believes it for himself, not for another. Every son of Adam can become a sincere man, an original
man, in this sense; no mortal is doomed to be an insincere man. Whole ages, what we call ages
of Faith, are original; all men in them, or the most of men in them, sincere. These are the
great and fruitful ages: every worker, in all spheres, is a worker not on semblance but on
substance; every work issues in a result: the general sum of such work is great; for all of
it, as genuine, tends towards one goal; all of it is additive, none of it subtractive. There
is true union, true kingship, loyalty, all true and blessed things, so far as the poor Earth
can produce blessedness for men.

Hero-worship? Ah me, that a man be self-subsistent, original, true, or what we call it, is
surely the farthest in the world from indisposing him to reverence and believe other men's
truth! It only disposes, necessitates and invincibly compels him to disbelieve other men's
dead formulas, hearsays and untruths. A man embraces truth with his eyes open, and because
his eyes are open: does he need to shut them before he can love his Teacher of truth? He alone
can love, with a right gratitude and genuine loyalty of soul, the Hero-Teacher who has delivered
him out of darkness into light. Is not such a one a true Hero and Serpent-queller; worthy of
all reverence! The black monster, Falsehood, our one enemy in this world, lies prostrate by
his valor; it was he that conquered the world for us!--See, accordingly, was not Luther himself
reverenced as a true Pope, or Spiritual Father, being verily such? Napoleon, from amid boundless
revolt of Sansculottism, became a King. Hero-worship never dies, nor can die. Loyalty and Sovereignty
are everlasting in the world:--and there is this in them, that they are grounded not on garnitures
and semblances, but on realities and sincerities. Not by shutting your eyes, your "private
judgment;" no, but by opening them, and by having something to see! Luther's message was deposition
and abolition to all false Popes and Potentates, but life and strength, though afar off, to
new genuine ones.

All this of Liberty and Equality, Electoral suffrages, Independence and so forth, we will take,
therefore, to be a temporary phenomenon, by no means a final one. Though likely to last a long
time, with sad enough embroilments for us all, we must welcome it, as the penalty of sins that
are past, the pledge of inestimable benefits that are coming. In all ways, it behooved men
to quit simulacra and return to fact; cost what it might, that did behoove to be done. With
spurious Popes, and Believers having no private judgment,--quacks pretending to command over
dupes,--what can you do? Misery and mischief only. You cannot make an association out of insincere
men; you cannot build an edifice except by plummet and level,--at right-angles to one another!
In all this wild revolutionary work, from Protestantism downwards, I see the blessedest result
preparing itself: not abolition of Hero-worship, but rather what I would call a whole World
of Heroes. If Hero mean sincere man, why may not every one of us be a Hero? A world all sincere,
a believing world: the like has been; the like will again be,--cannot help being. That were
the right sort of Worshippers for Heroes: never could the truly Better be so reverenced as
where all were True and Good!--But we must hasten to Luther and his Life.

Luther's birthplace was Eisleben in Saxony; he came into the world there on the 10th of November,
1483. It was an accident that gave this honor to Eisleben. His parents, poor mine-laborers
in a village of that region, named Mohra, had gone to the Eisleben Winter-Fair: in the tumult
of this scene the Frau Luther was taken with travail, found refuge in some poor house there,
and the boy she bore was named MARTIN LUTHER. Strange enough to reflect upon it. This poor
Frau Luther, she had gone with her husband to make her small merchandisings; perhaps to sell
the lock of yarn she had been spinning, to buy the small winter-necessaries for her narrow
hut or household; in the whole world, that day, there was not a more entirely unimportant-looking
pair of people than this Miner and his Wife. Cabral now turned his attention to the forlorn nayres,
who had been five days on board without eating, and by dint of much and kind entreaty, he at
length prevailed on them to take food.

On the 15th of January, the fleet came in sight of Cananore, which lies on the coast of Malabar,
thirty-one leagues north of Cochin. This is a large city with a fine bay, the houses being built
of earth, and covered with flat stones or slates, and it contains
many Moors who trade thither for many kinds of goods.

The neighbourhood produces hardly any more pepper than is necessary for its own consumpt; but
has plenty of ginger, cardamoms, tamarinds, mirabolans, cassia-fistula [33], and other drugs. In
several pools of water near this city there are many very large alligators [34], similar to the
crocodiles of the Nile, which devour men when they come in their way. They have very large
heads with two rows of teeth, and their breath smells like musk, their bodies being covered all over
with hard scales like shells. In the bushes near this city there are many large and very venomous
serpents, which destroy men by means of their breath. There are bats likewise as large as kites, which
have heads like a fox and similar teeth, and the natives often eat these animals. The city of Cananore
abounds in fish, flesh, and fruits, but has to import rice from other places. The king or rajah
is a bramin, being one of the three kings of Malabar, but is not so rich and powerful as the
zamorin, or even as the rajah of Coulan. The general came to anchor at this port, both because he
had been invited by the rajah, and because he wished to take on board some cinnamon, of which
commodity he had not as yet any on board.

He accordingly purchased 400 quintals, and might have had more if he would, but refused it;
on which the people of the place concluded that he had no more money. On this coming to the knowledge
of the rajah, he sent him word that he would trust him with any quantity he had a mind for of that
or any other commodity, till his return from Portugal, or the arrival of any other in his stead.
The rajah was induced to make this offer, from his knowledge of the just dealings of the Portuguese,
and their faithful performance of their promises. The general sent his hearty thanks to the rajah
for his liberality, promising to inform the king his master of his good will, and assuring his highness
that he might depend on his constant friendship.

Cabral now took on board an ambassador from the rajah of Cananore for the king of Portugal,
who was sent to conclude a treaty of amity between them. Departing from Cananore, and standing across
the gulf, he took a great ship richly laden on the last of January:
But on learning that it belonged to the king of Cambaya, he permitted
it to proceed on its voyage uninjured; sending word to that sovereign,
that the Portuguese did not come to the Indies to make war on any
one, excepting indeed with the zamorin of Calicut, who had scandalously
broken the peace which had been made between them.

He therefore only took a pilot out of this ship, to conduct him through the gulf between India
and Africa. While continuing their voyage, and approaching the African shore, a great storm arose
on the 12th of February, by which in the night the ship of Sancho de Toar was driven on shore,
and taking fire was entirely burnt, the men only being saved. As the tempest still continued, they
were unable to stop at Melinda, or any other place till they came to Mozambique, where they cast
anchor, in order to take in water and to refit their ships, the seams of which were all open.
From this place, the general dispatched Sancho de Toar to discover Sofala, with orders to
make the best of his way from that place to Portugal, with an account
of its productions.

The
ships being refitted, Cabral resumed the voyage to the Cape of Good Hope, near which they again
experienced a violent storm, in which one of the ships was separated from the fleet, after
firing signals of distress, and was never seen again during the voyage. At length, after many
great storms and dangers, which it were tedious to recount, Cabral doubled the Cape on Whitsunday
the 22d of May; whence continuing his voyage with a fair wind, he came to anchor at Cape Verd,
where he found Diego Diaz, who had separated from the fleet on the
outward bound voyage.

Diaz had been driven into the Red Sea, where he wintered and lost his boat, and as most of his
men died from sickness, his pilot could not venture to carry him to India. He endeavoured therefore
to find his way back to Portugal; but after leaving the Red Sea, his men were so consumed with
hunger, thirst, and sickness, that only seven of his crew remained. After remaining some time
at Cape Verd waiting in vain for the missing ships, Cabral proceeded on his voyage, and arrived
safe at Lisbon on the last day of July, in the year 1501. Soon after his arrival, the ship
which had separated in a storm off the Cape of Good Hope, came in; and shortly after that, Sancho
de Toar arrived from Sofala.

He described Sofala as a small island close on the continent of Africa, inhabited by a black
people called Caffres; and reported that much gold is brought to this place from certain mines
on the adjacent continent; on which account Sofala is much frequented by Moors from India,
who barter merchandize of small value for gold. He brought along with him to Lisbon a Moor whom
he had received as an hostage or pledge for the safety of one of his own men, whom he had left
there to acquire a knowledge of the country and its language; and from this Moor they got ample
information respecting the people and trade of those parts of Africa, which I shall afterwards
communicate. Including this last ship, there returned six to Portugal out of the twelve which
had sailed on the voyage for India, the other six having been lost.

[1] It will appear in the sequel that there was another captain named
Vasco de Tayde.-- E. [2] Astley says only 1200,-- Astl.

I. 40.

[3] According to Astley, there were eight Franciscan friars besides the vicar, eight chaplains,
and a chaplin-major; and that their orders were to begin with preaching, and in case that failed,
to enforce the gospel by the sword. In other words, to establish the accursed tribunal of the
inquisition in India, to the eternal disgrace of Portugal, and of the pretended followers of
the ever-blessed Prince of Peace.-- E. [4] The remainder of this
paragraph is given in the precise words and orthography of the original
translator, Nicholas Lichfild, as a curious specimen of the nautical
language of Britain in 1582.-- E. [5] According to De Faria, this
vessel parted in a storm near Cape Verd, and returned to Portugal.--
Astl.

I. 41. a. [6] By some unaccountable mistake, the translation of Castaneda
by Lichefild says to the east.-- E. [7] It appears that Cabral had
twenty malefactors on board for such purposes, who had received pardon
on condition of submitting to be landed on occasions of danger.--
E. [8] Puerto Seguro is in lat.

16°
S. and about long. 39° 40'W. This country of Brasil derived its name
from the dye-wood so called.-- E. [9] Originally, according to Castaneda,
there were only ten ships and two caravels: Both the caravels have
been already accounted for as having left the fleet; and after the
loss of four ships, six only ought to have remained.

Astley makes the whole fleet originally to have consisted of thirteen
vessels, which will allow of seven now remaining.-- E. [10] This part
of the voyage is very indistinctly described.

From the lat. of 27° S. where Cabral is said to have fallen in with
the eastern coast of Africa, to Sofala, in lat.

19°
S. the coast stretches out nearly five degrees to the east, to Capes Corientes and St Sebastian,
with many rivers, the great bays of Delogoa and Asnea, and the islands
of Bocica or Bozarnio, all of which must have been seen by Cabral
during the slow navigation close along shore, but all of which are
omitted in the text.-- E. [11] Named Inhazato.

Sofala is in lat. 13° S. and almost 36° E. from Greenwich.-- E. [12] According to De Faria, this
person was uncle to the king of Melinda, and was named Sheikh Foteyma.--
Astl.

I. 41. b. [13] In modern maps this extensive line of coast is divided into the following separate
territories, Inhambane, Sabia, Sofala, Mocaranga, Mozambico, and Querimba; which will be illustrated
in future portions of this work.-- E. [14] This word miso is probably an error of the press for mylyo,
by which the African grain named millet is distinguished in other
parts of Castaneda.

The small cattle of the text are probably meant for sheep, as they are frequently thus contradistinguished
in other parts of the original from great cattle, not here mentioned.-- E. [15] These vessels
were probably precisely similar to the Arab dows of the Red Sea and Persian Gulf, which will
be afterwards more particularly described.-- E. [16] Thus the translation of Castaneda by
Lichefild. It was more probably a superstitious ceremony to guard against witches.-- E. [17] In an
account of this voyage by a Portuguese pilot, inserted in the collection
of Ramusio, the name of the reigning zamorin is said to have been
Gnaffer.

Ramus. I. 125.

[18] Probably the person who was carried prisoner from Anchediva by De Gama, in the former voyage.--
E. [19] According to De Faria, the hostages demanded on this occasion
were six principal men of the Bramin cast, whose names were brought
from Portugal by Cabral, by the advice of Bontaybo or Moncayde, the
Moor who went off with De Gama.-- Astl.

I. 43. b. [20] Named by De Faria, Coje Cimireci.-- Astl. I. 44, a. [21] Called Coje Bequi by De Faria;
or rather Khojah Beki, or Beghi: But most of the foreign names are so corruptly given that
it is difficult to rectify them.-- Astl.

I. 44. b. [22] According to De Faria, this house was granted not without great difficulty, and was taken
possession of by Correa with sixty men.-- Astl. I. 45. [23] According to De Faria, this event was
occasioned by the Moorish admiral of Calicut, without the knowledge of the zamorin, who instigated
Cabral to the attempt in hope of injuring the Portuguese, and sent
information to the Moors to be on their guard.

He adds that Cabral, having discovered the fraud, restored the ship and cargo to the owners, whom
he satisfied for their damages, in order to gain the favour of the
rajah of Cochin.-- Astl.

I. 45. [24] Perhaps meant by Lichefild instead of emperor; or it may be some native term of dignity.--
E. [25] The latitude of Cochin is almost 10º N. while Calient is
about 11º 10'.-- E [26] This Michael Jougue or Joghi, is said to have
been a bramin, or Malabar priest; one of these devotees who wander
about the country, girt with chains and daubed with filth.

Those wanderers, if idolaters, are named Jogues; and Calandars if
Mahometans.-- Astl. I. 47. a. [27] The rajah who then reigned at
Cochin is named Triumpara, or Trimumpara, by De Faria, De Barros,
and other early writers.-- Astl.

I. 47. b. [28] In other parts of Castaneda, this officer is called
the kutwal-- E. [29] According to De Barros, the rajah of Cochin was
offended by the conduct of the zamorin, on several accounts, and among
the rest for monopolising the trade on the Malabar coast.-- Astl.

I. 43. a. We may easily conceive that one strong ground of favour
to the Portuguese at Cochin, was in hopes by their means to throw
off the yoke of the zamorin.-- E. [30] One of these Christians died
during the voyage, but the other, named Joseph, arrived in Portugal.

This
is the Josephus Indus, or Joseph the Indian, under whose name there is a short voyage in Grynæus:
which properly speaking is only an account of Cranganore and its inhabitants, particularly the
Christians and their ceremonies, with some account of Calient, Kambaya,
Guzerat, Ormuz, and Narsinga, very short and unsatisfactory.-- Astl.

I. 48. b. [31] Called Caitaio in the original, but obviously Cathay,
or Northern China, in which we have formerly seen that there were
Nestorian Christians.-- E. [32] In Lichefilds translation, the account
of the day of these Indian Christians runs thus, which we do not pretend
to understand: "They have their day, which they do call Intercalor,
which is of forty hours."

This account of the Christians found in India by the Portuguese, is exceedingly imperfect and unsatisfactory;
but it would lead to a most inconvenient length to attempt supplying
the deficiency.

Those of our readers who are disposed to study this interesting subject, will find it discussed
at some length in Mosheim, and there is a good abstract relative
to these Oriental sects given by Gibbon, in the Decline and Fall of
the Roman Empire.-- E. [33] Named Canyfistola in Lichefilds translation.

[34] Lagartos in the original.***** Note.-- In the Novus Orbus of Simon
Grynaeus, p. 202-211, there is an article entitled, Short Account of India,
by Joseph, an Indian Christian, who accompanied Cabral [A] to Lisbon
in 1501.

We were inclined to have inserted this account at this part of our collection as an ancient and original
document: But, on an attentive perusal, it is so jejune, contused, and uninstructive as not
to merit attention.

It evidently appears to have been penned by some person in Cabral's
ship during the voyage home, from repeated conferences with Joseph:
But, as the writer of this article informs us himself, many particulars
were unknown to Joseph, because he had little intercourse with the
idolaters, or because the reporter could not understand the answers
which Joseph made to his inquiries.-- E. [A] In Grynaeus, Pedro Alvarez
de Cabral, is named Peter Aliares.-- E. SECTION IV.

Voyage
of John de Nueva, being the third made by the Portuguese to India.

Is the same year 1501, supposing all differences to have been settled amicably at Calicut by
Cabral, and that a regular trade was established both there and at Sofala and Quiloa, the king of Portugal
dispatched three ships and a caravel from Lisbon, under the command
of John de Neuva, a native of Galicia in Spain, who was accounted
a valiant gentleman; having under his orders, Francisco de Navoys,
Diego Barboso, and Hernando de la Pyna, as captains of three of the
ships.

Two ships of this fleet were destined to carry merchandize to Sofala [1], and the other two
to Calicut, and all the four contained only eighty men [2].

The instructions given to Nueva were, that he was to touch at the
island of St Blas, where he was to wait ten days if any of his ships
had separated.

He was then to proceed for Sofala, where, if a factory were settled he was to deliver the goods
destined for that place before going to India. If a factory were not already settled there, he
was to do every thing in his power for that purpose, leaving Alvaro de Braga there as factor, with
the merchandize embarked in the caravel for that market.

From Sofala, he was to proceed to Quiloa; and thence directly to Calicut. He was farther directed, in
case of meeting with Cabral, to obey him as general, and desire him to settle a factory at Sofala,
if his own attempt should fail. Nueva left Lisbon on this voyage in March, four months before the return
of Cabral, and arrived in safety at the isle of St Blas; where he found a letter in an old
shoe suspended from the branch of a tree, written by Pedro de Tayde
[3], informing him that the fleet of Cabral had passed this island
on its way back to Portugal, and giving an account of what had happened
at Calicut, of the good treatment the fleet had received at Cochin,
where some of our men remained, and of the friendly disposition of
the king of Cananor [4].

On consulting with the other captains, it was judged improper to leave the caravel at Sofala,
in these circumstances, as their whole force did not exceed eighty
men; wherefore they proceeded directly for Quiloa, where they found
one of the exiles who had been left there by Cabral, from whom they
received a particular account of all that had happened at Calicut,
and of the loss of several of his ships, all of which he had learnt
from some Moors.

From Quiloa Nueva sailed on to Melinda, where the king confirmed the intelligence he had received
from the exile at Quiloa [5]. Thus fully instructed in the state of matters, Nueva deemed it
prudent to keep all the ships of his small squadron, and sailed across
from Melinda to Anchediva, where he came to anchor in November, intending
to take in a supply of water at that place.

While here, seven large ships belonging to Cambaya, which were bound for the Red Sea, appeared
off the anchoring ground, and seemed at first disposed to attack our ships; but being afraid of the
Portuguese ordnance, they continued their voyage. From Anchediva Nueva proceeded for Cananor, where
he had an audience of the rajah, from whom he received particular notice of all that had happened
in Calicut to Cabral, and of the offer which the rajah had made to
load all his ships at Cananor.

The rajah assured him of his earnest desire of doing every thing
in his power to serve the king of Portugal, and pressed him to take
in his loading at that port; but Nueva declined this offer for the
present, until he had consulted with the factor at Cochin, for which
port he took his departure from Cananor.

On his way between Cananor and Cochin, Nueva took a ship belonging
to some of the Moorish merchants at Calicut, after a vigorous resistance,
and set it on fire.

On his arrival at Cochin, the factor who had been left there by Cabral
came on board with the rest of his company, and acquainted him that
the rajah was greatly offended with Cabral for leaving the port without
seeing him, and for carrying away the hostages; yet had always kindly
entertained and the other members, of the factory, lodging them every
night in the palace for security, and always sending a guard of nayres
along with any of them who had occasion to go out during the day,
on purpose to defend them from the Moors who sought their destruction,
and who had one night set fire to the house in which they lodged before
their removal to the palace.

He also informed Nueva that the Moors had persuaded the native merchants to depreciate the price of
the Portuguese merchandize, and not to take these in exchange for pepper, so that unless he had brought
money for his purchases he would have little chance of procuring a loading. On this intelligence,
and considering that he had not brought money, Nueva immediately returned from Cochin to Cananor, expecting
to procure his loading at that port, in consequence of the friendly dispositions of the rajah
towards the king of Portugal [6]. On his return to Cananor, he found that money was as necessary
there for his purchases as at Cochin: But, when the rajah, was informed of his difficulties
from want of money, he became his security to the native merchants for 1000 quintals or hundred
weights of pepper, 450 quintals of cinnamon, and fifty quintals of
ginger, besides some bales of linen cloth [7].

By this generous conduct of the rajah, Nueva procured a loading for
his ships, and left his European merchandize for sale at Cananor under
the management of a factor and two clerks.

On the 15th December, while waiting for a fair wind to begin his
homeward voyage, the rajah sent notice to Nueva that eighty paraws
were seen to the northward, which were past mount Dely, and that these
vessels were from Calicut, sent expressly to attack the Portuguese
ships; and the rajah advised him to land his men and ordnance for
greater security: But the general was not of this mind, and sent word
to the rajah that he hoped, with the assistance of God, to be able
to defend himself.

Next day, being the 16th of December, before dawn, about an hundred
ships and paraws full of Moors came into the bay, sent on purpose
by the zamorin, who was in hopes to have taken all our ships and men.

As soon as Nueva perceived this numerous armament, he hoisted anchor and removed his squadron to the
middle of the bay, where he ordered all his ships to pour in their
shot against the enemy without intermission. Doubtless, but for this,
the enemy would have boarded his ships, and they were so numerous it
would have been impossible for him to have escaped; but as the Moors
had no ordnance, they could do our people no harm from a distance, and
many of their ships and paraws were sunk, with the loss of a vast
number of men, while they did not dare to approach for the purpose
of boarding, and not a single person was killed or hurt on our side.

The enemy towards evening hung out a flag for a parley; but as Nueva feared this might be
intended as a lure, he continued firing, lest they might suppose he stopped from weariness or fear. But
the Moors were really desirous of peace, owing to the prodigious loss they had sustained, and
their inability to escape from the bay for want of a fair wind. A man
to do this must have a kingly faculty: he must have the gift to discern at all turns where
the true heart of the matter lies, and to plant himself courageously on that, as a strong true
man, that other true men may rally round him there. He will not continue leader of men otherwise.
Luther's clear deep force of judgment, his force of all sorts, of silence, of tolerance and
moderation, among others, are very notable in these circumstances.

Tolerance, I say; a very genuine kind of tolerance: he distinguishes what is essential, and
what is not; the unessential may go very much as it will. A complaint comes to him that such
and such a Reformed Preacher "will not preach without a cassock." Well, answers Luther, what
harm will a cassock do the man? "Let him have a cassock to preach in; let him have three cassocks
if he find benefit in them!" His conduct in the matter of Karlstadt's wild image-breaking;
of the Anabaptists; of the Peasants' War, shows a noble strength, very different from spasmodic
violence. With sure prompt insight he discriminates what is what: a strong just man, he speaks
forth what is the wise course, and all men follow him in that. Luther's Written Works give
similar testimony of him. The dialect of these speculations is now grown obsolete for us; but
one still reads them with a singular attraction. And indeed the mere grammatical diction is
still legible enough; Luther's merit in literary history is of the greatest: his dialect became
the language of all writing. They are not well written, these Four-and-twenty Quartos of his;
written hastily, with quite other than literary objects. But in no Books have I found a more
robust, genuine, I will say noble faculty of a man than in these. A rugged honesty, homeliness,
simplicity; a rugged sterling sense and strength. He dashes out illumination from him; his
smiting idiomatic phrases seem to cleave into the very secret of the matter. Good humor too,
nay tender affection, nobleness and depth: this man could have been a Poet too! He had to work
an Epic Poem, not write one. I call him a great Thinker; as indeed his greatness of heart already
betokens that.

Richter says of Luther's words, "His words are half-battles." They may be called so. The essential
quality of him was, that he could fight and conquer; that he was a right piece of human Valor.
No more valiant man, no mortal heart to be called braver, that one has record of, ever lived
in that Teutonic Kindred, whose character is valor. His defiance of the "Devils" in Worms was
not a mere boast, as the like might be if now spoken. It was a faith of Luther's that there
were Devils, spiritual denizens of the Pit, continually besetting men. Many times, in his writings,
this turns up; and a most small sneer has been grounded on it by some. In the room of the Wartburg
where he sat translating the Bible, they still show you a black spot on the wall; the strange
memorial of one of these conflicts. Luther sat translating one of the Psalms; he was worn down
with long labor, with sickness, abstinence from food: there rose before him some hideous indefinable
Image, which he took for the Evil One, to forbid his work: Luther started up, with fiend-defiance;
flung his inkstand at the spectre, and it disappeared! The spot still remains there; a curious
monument of several things. Any apothecary's apprentice can now tell us what we are to think
of this apparition, in a scientific sense: but the man's heart that dare rise defiant, face
to face, against Hell itself, can give no higher proof of fearlessness. The thing he will quail
before exists not on this Earth or under it.--Fearless enough! "The Devil is aware," writes
he on one occasion, "that this does not proceed out of fear in me. I have seen and defied innumerable
Devils. Duke George," of Leipzig, a great enemy of his, "Duke George is not equal to one Devil,"--far
short of a Devil! "If I had business at Leipzig, I would ride into Leipzig, though it rained
Duke Georges for nine days running." What a reservoir of Dukes to ride into--!

At the same time, they err greatly who imagine that this man's courage was ferocity, mere coarse
disobedient obstinacy and savagery, as many do. Far from that. There may be an absence of fear
which arises from the absence of thought or affection, from the presence of hatred and stupid
fury. We do not value the courage of the tiger highly! With Luther it was far otherwise; no
accusation could be more unjust than this of mere ferocious violence brought against him. A
most gentle heart withal, full of pity and love, as indeed the truly valiant heart ever is.
The tiger before a stronger foe--flies: the tiger is not what we call valiant, only fierce
and cruel. I know few things more touching than those soft breathings of affection, soft as
a child's or a mother's, in this great wild heart of Luther. So honest, unadulterated with
any cant; homely, rude in their utterance; pure as water welling from the rock. What, in fact,
was all that down-pressed mood of despair and reprobation, which we saw in his youth, but the
outcome of pre-eminent thoughtful gentleness, affections too keen and fine? It is the course
such men as the poor Poet Cowper fall into. Luther to a slight observer might have seemed a
timid, weak man; modesty, affectionate shrinking tenderness the chief distinction of him. It
is a noble valor which is roused in a heart like this, once stirred up into defiance, all kindled
into a heavenly blaze.

In Luther's Table-Talk, a posthumous Book of anecdotes and sayings collected by his friends,
the most interesting now of all the Books proceeding from him, we have many beautiful unconscious
displays of the man, and what sort of nature he had. His behavior at the death-bed of his little
Daughter, so still, so great and loving, is among the most affecting things. He is resigned
that his little Magdalene should die, yet longs inexpressibly that she might live;--follows,
in awe-struck thought, the flight of her little soul through those unknown realms. Awe-struck;
most heartfelt, we can see; and sincere,--for after all dogmatic creeds and articles, he feels
what nothing it is that we know, or can know: His little Magdalene shall be with God, as God
wills; for Luther too that is all; Islam is all.

Once, he looks out from his solitary Patmos, the Castle of Coburg, in the middle of the night:
The great vault of Immensity, long flights of clouds sailing through it,--dumb, gaunt, huge:--who
supports all that? "None ever saw the pillars of it; yet it is supported." God supports it.
We must know that God is great, that God is good; and trust, where we cannot see.--Returning
home from Leipzig once, he is struck by the beauty of the harvest-fields: How it stands, that
golden yellow corn, on its fair taper stem, its golden head bent, all rich and waving there,--the
meek Earth, at God's kind bidding, has produced it once again; the bread of man!--In the garden
at Wittenberg one evening at sunset, a little bird has perched for the night: That little bird,
says Luther, above it are the stars and deep Heaven of worlds; yet it has folded its little
wings; gone trustfully to rest there as in its home: the Maker of it has given it too a home!--Neither
are mirthful turns wanting: there is a great free human heart in this man. The common speech
of him has a rugged nobleness, idiomatic, expressive, genuine; gleams here and there with beautiful
poetic tints. One feels him to be a great brother man. His love of Music, indeed, is not this,
as it were, the summary of all these affections in him? Many a wild unutterability he spoke
forth from him in the tones of his flute. The Devils fled from his flute, he says. Death-defiance
on the one hand, and such love of music on the other; I could call these the two opposite poles
of a great soul; between these two all great things had room.

Luther's face is to me expressive of him; in Kranach's best portraits I find the true Luther.
A rude plebeian face; with its huge crag-like brows and bones, the emblem of rugged energy;
at first, almost a repulsive face. Yet in the eyes especially there is a wild silent sorrow;
an unnamable melancholy, the element of all gentle and fine affections; giving to the rest
the true stamp of nobleness. Laughter was in this Luther, as we said; but tears also were there.
Tears also were appointed him; tears and hard toil. The basis of his life was Sadness, Earnestness.
In his latter days, after all triumphs and victories, he expresses himself heartily weary of
living; he considers that God alone can and will regulate the course things are taking, and
that perhaps the Day of Judgment is not far. As for him, he longs for one thing: that God would
release him from his labor, and let him depart and be at rest.

The most interesting phasis which the Reformation anywhere assumes, especially for us English,
is that of Puritanism. In Luther's own country Protestantism soon dwindled into a rather barren
affair: not a religion or faith, but rather now a theological jangling of argument, the proper
seat of it not the heart; the essence of it sceptical contention: which indeed has jangled
more and more, down to Voltaireism itself,--through Gustavus-Adolphus contentions onwards to
French-Revolution ones! But in our Island there arose a Puritanism, which even got itself established
as a Presbyterianism and National Church among the Scotch; which came forth as a real business
of the heart; and has produced in the world very notable fruit. In some senses, one may say
it is the only phasis of Protestantism that ever got to the rank of being a Faith, a true heart-communication
with Heaven, and of exhibiting itself in History as such. We must spare a few words for Knox;
himself a brave and remarkable man; but still more important as Chief Priest and Founder, which
one may consider him to be, of the Faith that became Scotland's, New England's, Oliver Cromwell's.
History will have something to say about this, for some time to come!

We may censure Puritanism as we please; and no one of us, I suppose, but would find it a very
rough defective thing. But we, and all men, may understand that it was a genuine thing; for
Nature has adopted it, and it has grown, and grows. I say sometimes, that all goes by wager-of-battle
in this world; that strength, well understood, is the measure of all worth. Give a thing time;
if it can succeed, it is a right thing. Look now at American Saxondom; and at that little Fact
of the sailing of the Mayflower, two hundred years ago, from Delft Haven in Holland! Were we
of open sense as the Greeks were, we had found a Poem here; one of Nature's own Poems, such
as she writes in broad facts over great continents. For it was properly the beginning of America:
there were straggling settlers in America before, some material as of a body was there; but
the soul of it was first this. Sometimes she leant her head on Theresa who accompanied them; sometimes
she closed her eyes, overcome by the languor of the air. Oswald awakened her immediately, with
inexpressible terror; and though he was naturally taciturn, he was now inexhaustible in subjects
of conversation, always well supported and always new, to prevent her from yielding to this
fatal sleep. Ah! should we not pardon the heart of a woman the cruel regret which attaches
to those days when she was beloved, when her existence was so necessary to that of another, when
at every moment she was supported and protected? What isolation must
succeed this season of delight!

How happy are they whom the sacred hand of Hymen has conducted from love to friendship, without
one painful moment having embittered their course!

Oswald and Corinne, after the anxious passage of the marshes, at length arrived at Terracina,
on the sea coast, near the confines of the kingdom of Naples. It is there that the south truly
begins; it is there that it receives travellers in all its magnificence. Naples, that happy
country, is, as it were, separated from the rest of Europe by the sea which surrounds it and
by that dangerous district which must be passed in order to arrive at it. One would say that
nature, wishing to secure to herself this charming abode, has designedly made all access to
it perilous.

At Rome we are not yet in the south; we have there a foretaste of its sweets, but its enchantment
only truly begins in the territory of Naples. Not far from Terracina is the promontory fixed
upon by the poets as the abode of Circe: and behind Terracina rises Mount Anxur, where Theodoric, king
of the Goths, had placed one of those strong castles with which the northern warriors have covered
the earth. There are few traces of the invasion of Italy by the barbarians; or at least, where
those traces consist in devastation, they are confounded with the effects of time. The northern nations
have not given to Italy that warlike aspect which Germany has preserved. It seems that the gentle
soil of Ausonia was unable to support the fortifications and citadels which bristle in northern
countries. Rarely is a Gothic edifice or a feudal castle to be met with here; and the monuments
of the ancient Romans reign alone triumphant over Time, and the nations by whom they have
been conquered.

The whole mountain which dominates Terracina, is covered with orange and lemon trees, which
embalm the air in a delicious manner. There is nothing in our climate that resembles the southern
perfume of lemon trees in the open air; it produces on the imagination
almost the same effect as melodious music; it gives a poetic disposition
to the soul, stimulates genius, and intoxicates with the charms of
nature.

The aloe and the broad-leaved cactus, which are met here at every
step, have a peculiar aspect, which brings to mind all that we know
of the formidable productions of Africa. These plants inspire a sort
of terror: they seem to belong to a violent and despotic nature. There needs not
a great soul to make a hero; there needs a god-created soul which will be true to its origin;
that will be a great soul! The like has been seen, we find. The like will be again seen, under
wider forms than the Presbyterian: there can be no lasting good done till then.--Impossible!
say some. Possible? Has it not been, in this world, as a practiced fact? Did Hero-worship fail
in Knox's case? Or are we made of other clay now? Did the Westminster Confession of Faith add
some new property to the soul of man? God made the soul of man. He did not doom any soul of
man to live as a Hypothesis and Hearsay, in a world filled with such, and with the fatal work
and fruit of such--!

But to return: This that Knox did for his Nation, I say, we may really call a resurrection
as from death. It was not a smooth business; but it was welcome surely, and cheap at that price,
had it been far rougher. On the whole, cheap at any price!--as life is. The people began to
live: they needed first of all to do that, at what cost and costs soever. Scotch Literature
and Thought, Scotch Industry; James Watt, David Hume, Walter Scott, Robert Burns: I find Knox
and the Reformation acting in the heart's core of every one of these persons and phenomena;
I find that without the Reformation they would not have been. Or what of Scotland? The Puritanism
of Scotland became that of England, of New England. A tumult in the High Church of Edinburgh
spread into a universal battle and struggle over all these realms;--there came out, after fifty
years' struggling, what we all call the "Glorious Revolution" a Habeas Corpus Act, Free Parliaments,
and much else!--Alas, is it not too true what we said, That many men in the van do always,
like Russian soldiers, march into the ditch of Schweidnitz, and fill it up with their dead
bodies, that the rear may pass over them dry-shod, and gain the honor? How many earnest rugged
Cromwells, Knoxes, poor Peasant Covenanters, wrestling, battling for very life, in rough miry
places, have to struggle, and suffer, and fall, greatly censured, bemired,--before a beautiful
Revolution of Eighty-eight can step over them in official pumps and silk-stockings, with universal
three-times-three!

It seems to me hard measure that this Scottish man, now after three hundred years, should have
to plead like a culprit before the world; intrinsically for having been, in such way as it
was then possible to be, the bravest of all Scotchmen! Had he been a poor Half-and-half, he
could have crouched into the corner, like so many others; Scotland had not been delivered;
and Knox had been without blame. He is the one Scotchman to whom, of all others, his country
and the world owe a debt. He has to plead that Scotland would forgive him for having been worth
to it any million "unblamable" Scotchmen that need no forgiveness! He bared his breast to the
battle; had to row in French galleys, wander forlorn in exile, in clouds and storms; was censured,
shot at through his windows; had a right sore fighting life: if this world were his place of
recompense, he had made but a bad venture of it. I cannot apologize for Knox. To him it is
very indifferent, these two hundred and fifty years or more, what men say of him. But we, having
got above all those details of his battle, and living now in clearness on the fruits of his
victory, we, for our own sake, ought to look through the rumors and controversies enveloping
the man, into the man himself.

For one thing, I will remark that this post of Prophet to his Nation was not of his seeking;
Knox had lived forty years quietly obscure, before he became conspicuous. He was the son of
poor parents; had got a college education; become a Priest; adopted the Reformation, and seemed
well content to guide his own steps by the light of it, nowise unduly intruding it on others.
He had lived as Tutor in gentlemen's families; preaching when any body of persons wished to
hear his doctrine: resolute he to walk by the truth, and speak the truth when called to do
it; not ambitious of more; not fancying himself capable of more. In this entirely obscure way
he had reached the age of forty; was with the small body of Reformers who were standing siege
in St. Andrew's Castle,--when one day in their chapel, the Preacher after finishing his exhortation
to these fighters in the forlorn hope, said suddenly, That there ought to be other speakers,
that all men who had a priest's heart and gift in them ought now to speak;--which gifts and
heart one of their own number, John Knox the name of him, had: Had he not? said the Preacher,
appealing to all the audience: what then is his duty? The people answered affirmatively; it
was a criminal forsaking of his post, if such a man held the word that was in him silent. Poor
Knox was obliged to stand up; he attempted to reply; he could say no word;--burst into a flood
of tears, and ran out. It is worth remembering, that scene. He was in grievous trouble for
some days. He felt what a small faculty was his for this great work. He felt what a baptism
he was called to be baptized withal. He "burst into tears."

Our primary characteristic of a Hero, that he is sincere, applies emphatically to Knox. It
is not denied anywhere that this, whatever might be his other qualities or faults, is among
the truest of men. With a singular instinct he holds to the truth and fact; the truth alone
is there for him, the rest a mere shadow and deceptive nonentity. However feeble, forlorn the
reality may seem, on that and that only can he take his stand. In the Galleys of the River
Loire, whither Knox and the others, after their Castle of St. Andrew's was taken, had been
sent as Galley-slaves,--some officer or priest, one day, presented them an Image of the Virgin
Mother, requiring that they, the blasphemous heretics, should do it reverence. Mother? Mother
of God? said Knox, when the turn came to him: This is no Mother of God: this is "a pented bredd,"--a
piece of wood, I tell you, with paint on it! She is fitter for swimming, I think, than for
being worshipped, added Knox; and flung the thing into the river. It was not very cheap jesting
there: but come of it what might, this thing to Knox was and must continue nothing other than
the real truth; it was a pented bredd: worship it he would not.

He told his fellow-prisoners, in this darkest time, to be of courage; the Cause they had was
the true one, and must and would prosper; the whole world could not put it down. Reality is
of God's making; it is alone strong. How many pented bredds, pretending to be real, are fitter
to swim than to be worshipped!--This Knox cannot live but by fact: he clings to reality as
the shipwrecked sailor to the cliff. He is an instance to us how a man, by sincerity itself,
becomes heroic: it is the grand gift he has. We are to take him for that; not require him to
be other.

Knox's conduct to Queen Mary, the harsh visits he used to make in her own palace, to reprove
her there, have been much commented upon. Such cruelty, such coarseness fills us with indignation.
On reading the actual narrative of the business, what Knox said, and what Knox meant, I must
say one's tragic feeling is rather disappointed. They are not so coarse, these speeches; they
seem to me about as fine as the circumstances would permit! Knox was not there to do the courtier;
he came on another errand. Whoever, reading these colloquies of his with the Queen, thinks
they are vulgar insolences of a plebeian priest to a delicate high lady, mistakes the purport
and essence of them altogether. It was unfortunately not possible to be polite with the Queen
of Scotland, unless one proved untrue to the Nation and Cause of Scotland. A man who did not
wish to see the land of his birth made a hunting-field for intriguing ambitious Guises, and
the Cause of God trampled underfoot of Falsehoods, Formulas and the Devil's Cause, had no method
of making himself agreeable! "Better that women weep," said Morton, "than that bearded men
be forced to weep." Knox was the constitutional opposition-party in Scotland: the Nobles of
the country, called by their station to take that post, were not found in it; Knox had to go,
or no one. The hapless Queen;--but the still more hapless Country, if she were made happy!
Mary herself was not without sharpness enough, among her other qualities: "Who are you," said
she once, "that presume to school the nobles and sovereign of this realm?"--"Madam, a subject
born within the same," answered he. Reasonably answered! If the "subject" have truth to speak,
it is not the "subject's" footing that will fail him here.--

We blame Knox for his intolerance. Well, surely it is good that each of us be as tolerant as
possible. Yet, at bottom, after all the talk there is and has been about it, what is tolerance?
Tolerance has to tolerate the unessential; and to see well what that is. Tolerance has to be
noble, measured, just in its very wrath, when it can tolerate no longer. But, on the whole,
we are not altogether here to tolerate! We are here to resist, to control and vanquish withal.
We do not "tolerate" Falsehoods, Thieveries, Iniquities, when they fasten on us; we say to
them, Thou art false, thou art not tolerable! We are here to extinguish Falsehoods, and put
an end to them, in some wise way! I will not quarrel so much with the way; the doing of the
thing is our great concern. In this sense Knox was, full surely, intolerant.

A man sent to row in French Galleys, and such like, for teaching the Truth in his own land,
cannot always be in the mildest humor! I am not prepared to say that Knox had a soft temper;
nor do I know that he had what we call an ill temper. An ill nature he decidedly had not. Kind
honest affections dwelt in the much-enduring, hard-worn, ever-battling man. That he could rebuke
Queens, and had such weight among those proud turbulent Nobles, proud enough whatever else
they were; and could maintain to the end a kind of virtual Presidency and Sovereignty in that
wild realm, he who was only "a subject born within the same:" this of itself will prove to
us that he was found, close at hand, to be no mean acrid man; but at heart a healthful, strong,
sagacious man. Such alone can bear rule in that kind. [24] The professional attainments and Whig principles
of Pollexfen gave him pretensions to the highest place. But it was remembered that he had held
briefs for the Crown, in the Western counties, at the assizes which followed the battle of Sedgemoor.
It seems indeed from the reports of the trials that he did as little as he could do if he held
the briefs at all, and that he left to the Judges the business of browbeating witnesses and prisoners.
Nevertheless his name was inseparably associated in the public mind with the Bloody Circuit.
He, therefore, could not with propriety be put at the head of the first criminal court in the realm.
[25] After acting during a few weeks as Attorney General, he was
made Chief Justice of the Common Pleas.

Sir John Holt, a young man, but distinguished by learning, integrity, and courage, became Chief
Justice of the King's Bench. Sir Robert Atkyns, an eminent lawyer, who had passed some years
in rural retirement, but whose reputation was still great in Westminster Hall, was appointed Chief
Baron. Powell, who had been disgraced on account of his honest declaration in favour of the Bishops,
again took his seat among the judges. Treby succeeded Pollexfen as Attorney General; and Somers
was made Solicitor.

[26] Two of the chief places in the Royal household were filled by two English noblemen eminently
qualified to adorn a court. The high spirited and accomplished Devonshire was named Lord Steward.
No man had done more or risked more for England during the crisis of her fate. In retrieving
her liberties he had retrieved also the fortunes of his own house. His bond for thirty thousand pounds
was found among the papers which James had left at Whitehall, and was cancelled by William.
[27] Dorset became Lord Chamberlain, and employed the influence and
patronage annexed to his functions, as he had long employed his private
means, in encouraging genius and in alleviating misfortune.

One of the first acts which he was under the necessity of performing must have been painful to a man
of so generous a nature, and of so keen a relish for whatever was excellent in arts and letters. Dryden
could no longer remain Poet Laureate. The public would not have borne to see any Papist among the
servants of their Majesties; and Dryden was not only a Papist, but
an apostate.

He had moreover aggravated the guilt of his apostasy by calumniating and ridiculing the Church which
he had deserted. He had, it was facetiously said, treated her as the Pagan persecutors of old treated
her children. He had dressed her up in the skin of a wild beast, and then baited her for the
public amusement. [28] He was removed; but he received from the private bounty of the magnificent
Chamberlain a pension equal to the salary which had been withdrawn. The deposed Laureate, however,
as poor of spirit as rich in intellectual gifts, continued to complain
piteously, year after year, of the losses which he had not suffered,
till at length his wailings drew forth expressions of well merited
contempt from brave and honest Jacobites, who had sacrificed every
thing to their principles without deigning to utter one word of deprecation
or lamentation.

[29] In the Royal household were placed some of those Dutch nobles who stood highest in the
favour of the King. Bentinck had the great office of Groom of the Stole, with a salary of five thousand
pounds a year. Zulestein took charge of the robes. The Master of the Horse was Auverquerque, a
gallant soldier, who united the blood of Nassau to the blood of Horn, and who wore with just pride a
costly sword presented to him by the States General in acknowledgment of the courage with which
he had, on the bloody day of Saint Dennis, saved the life of William.

The place of Vice Chamberlain to the Queen was given to a man who had just become conspicuous in
public life, and whose name will frequently recur in the history of this reign. John Howe, or,
as he was more commonly called, Jack Howe, had been sent up to the Convention by the borough
of Cirencester. His appearance was that of a man whose body was worn by the constant workings of a restless
and acrid mind. He was tall, lean, pale, with a haggard eager look, expressive at once of flightiness
and of shrewdness.

He had been known, during several years, as a small poet; and some of the most savage lampoons which
were handed about the coffeehouses were imputed to him. But it was in the House of Commons that both
his parts and his illnature were most signally displayed. Before he had been a member three
weeks, his volubility, his asperity, and his pertinacity had made him conspicuous. Quickness,
energy, and audacity, united, soon raised him to the rank of a privileged man. His enemies, and he had
many enemies, said that he consulted his personal safety even in his most petulant moods, and
that he treated soldiers with a civility which he never showed to ladies or to Bishops. But no
man had in larger measure that evil courage which braves and even courts disgust and hatred. No
decencies restrained him: his spite was implacable: his skill in finding out the vulnerable parts of
strong minds was consummate.

All his great contemporaries felt his sting in their turns. Once it inflicted a wound which
deranged even the stern composure of William, and constrained him to utter a wish that he were
a private gentleman, and could invite Mr. Howe to a short interview behind Montague House. As yet,
however, Howe was reckoned among the most strenuous supporters of the new government, and directed
all his sarcasms and invectives against the malcontents. [30] The subordinate places in every public
office were divided between the two parties: but the Whigs had the larger share. Some persons,
indeed, who did little honour to the Whig name, were largely recompensed for services which
no good man would have performed. Wildman was made Postmaster General.
A lucrative sinecure in the Excise was bestowed on Ferguson. The duties of
the Solicitor of the Treasury were both very important and very invidious.

It was the business of that officer to conduct political prosecutions,
to collect the evidence, to instruct the counsel for the Crown, to
see that the prisoners were not liberated on insufficient bail, to
see that the juries were not composed of persons hostile to the government.

In the days of Charles and James, the Solicitors of the Treasury had
been with too much reason accused of employing all the vilest artifices
of chicanery against men obnoxious to the Court.

The new government ought to have made a choice which was above all suspicion. Unfortunately
Mordaunt and Delamere pitched upon Aaron Smith, an acrimonious and unprincipled politician, who
had been the legal adviser of Titus Oates in the days of the Popish Plot, and who had been deeply implicated
in the Rye House Plot. Richard Hampden, a man of decided opinions but of moderate temper, objected
to this appointment. His objections however were overruled. The Jacobites, who hated Smith and had
reason to hate him, affirmed that he had obtained his place by bullying
the Lords of the Treasury, and particularly by threatening that, if his
just claims were disregarded, he would be the death of Hampden. [31]
Some weeks elapsed before all the arrangements which have been mentioned
were publicly announced: and meanwhile many important events had taken
place.

As soon as the new Privy Councillors had been sworn in, it was necessary to submit to them a grave
and pressing question. Could the Convention now assembled be turned into a Parliament? The Whigs,
who had a decided majority in the Lower House, were all for the affirmative. The Tories, who knew that,
within the last month, the public feeling had undergone a considerable change, and who hoped that
a general election would add to their strength, were for the negative. They maintained that to the
existence of a Parliament royal writs were indispensably necessary. The Convention had not been summoned
by such writs: the original defect could not now be supplied: the Houses were therefore mere clubs
of private men, and ought instantly to disperse. It was answered that the royal writ was mere matter of
form, and that to expose the substance of our laws and liberties to serious
hazard for the sake of a form would be the most senseless superstition.

Wherever the Sovereign, the Peers spiritual and temporal, and the
Representatives freely chosen by the constituent bodies of the realm
were met together, there was the essence of a Parliament.

Such a Parliament was now in being; and what could be more absurd than to dissolve it at a conjuncture
when every hour was precious, when numerous important subjects required immediate legislation,
and when dangers, only to be averted by the combined efforts of King, Lords, and Commons, menaced the
State? A Jacobite indeed might consistently refuse to recognise the Convention as a Parliament.
For he held that it had from the beginning been an unlawful assembly, that all its resolutions
were nullities, and that the Sovereigns whom it had set up were usurpers. But with what consistency
could any man, who maintained that a new Parliament ought to be immediately called by writs under the
great seal of William and Mary, question the authority which had placed William and Mary on the
throne? Those who held that William was rightful King must necessarily hold that the body from
which he derived his right was itself a rightful Great Council of
the Realm.

Those who, though not holding him to be rightful King, conceived that
they might lawfully swear allegiance to him as King in fact, might
surely, on the same principle, acknowledge the Convention as a Parliament
in fact.

It was plain that the Convention was the fountainhead from which the authority of all future Parliaments
must be derived, and that on the validity of the votes of the Convention must depend the validity
of every future statute. And how could the stream rise higher than the source? Was it not
absurd to say that the Convention was supreme in the state, and yet a nullity; a legislature
for the highest of all purposes, and yet no legislature for the humblest purposes; competent
to declare the throne vacant, to change the succession, to fix the landmarks of the constitution, and
yet not competent to pass the most trivial Act for the repairing of a pier or the building of a
parish church? These arguments would have had considerable weight, even if every precedent had
been on the other side. But in truth our history afforded only one precedent which was at all in
point; and that precedent was decisive in favour of the doctrine that royal writs are not indispensably
necessary to the existence of a Parliament. No royal writ had summoned the Convention which recalled
Charles the Second. Yet that Convention had, after his Restoration, continued to sit and to legislate,
had settled the revenue, had passed an Act of amnesty, had abolished the feudal tenures. These
proceedings had been sanctioned by authority of which no party in the state could speak without reverence.
Hale had borne a considerable share in them, and had always maintained
that they were strictly legal.

Clarendon, little as he was inclined to favour any doctrine derogatory to the rights of the Crown, or to
the dignity of that seal of which he was keeper, had declared that, since God had, at a most critical
conjuncture, given the nation a good Parliament, it would be the height of folly to look for technical
flaws in the instrument by which that Parliament was called together. Would it be pretended by
any Tory that the Convention of 1660 had a more respectable origin than the Convention of 1689?
Was not a letter written by the first Prince of the Blood, at the request of the whole peerage,
and of hundreds of gentlemen who had represented counties and towns, at least as good a warrant
as a vote of the Rump?

Weaker reasons than these would have satisfied the Whigs who formed the majority of the Privy Council.
The King therefore, on the fifth day after he had been proclaimed, went with royal state to the
House of Lords, and took his seat on the throne. The Commons were called in; and he, with many gracious
expressions, reminded his hearers of the perilous situation of the country, and exhorted them to take
such steps as might prevent unnecessary delay in the transaction of public business. His speech was
received by the gentlemen who crowded the bar with the deep hum by which our ancestors were
wont to indicate approbation, and which was often heard in places more sacred than the Chamber
of the Peers. [32] As soon as he had retired, a Bill declaring the Convention
a Parliament was laid on the table of the Lords, and rapidly passed
by them.

In the Commons the debates were warm. The House resolved itself into a Committee; and so great was
the excitement that, when the authority of the Speaker was withdrawn, it was hardly possible
to preserve order. Sharp personalities were exchanged. The phrase, "hear him," a phrase which
had originally been used only to silence irregular noises, and to remind members of the duty
of attending to the discussion, had, during some years, been gradually becoming what it now
is; that is to say, a cry indicative, according to the tone, of admiration, acquiescence, indignation, or
derision. On this occasion, the Whigs vociferated "Hear, hear," so tumultuously that the Tories
complained of unfair usage.

Seymour, the leader of the minority, declared that there could be no freedom of debate while
such clamour was tolerated. Some old Whig members were provoked into reminding him that the same
clamour had occasionally been heard when he presided, and had not then been repressed. Yet,
eager and angry as both sides were, the speeches on both sides indicated that profound reverence
for law and prescription which has long been characteristic of Englishmen, and which, though
it runs sometimes into pedantry and sometimes into superstition,
is not without its advantages.

Even at that momentous crisis, when the nation was still in the ferment of a revolution, our
public men talked long and seriously about all the circumstances of the deposition of Edward
the Second and of the deposition of Richard the Second, and anxiously inquired whether the assembly
which, with Archbishop Lanfranc at its head, set aside Robert of Normandy, and put William
Rufus on the throne, did or did not afterwards continue to act as the legislature of the realm. Much
was said about the history of writs; much about the etymology of the word Parliament. It is remarkable,
that the orator who took the most statesmanlike view of the subject was old Maynard. In the civil
conflicts of fifty eventful years he had learned that questions affecting the highest interests of the commonwealth
were not to be decided by verbal cavils and by scraps of Law French and Law Latin; and, being by
universal acknowledgment the most subtle and the most learned of English jurists, he could express
what he felt without the risk of being accused of ignorance and presumption. He scornfully thrust
aside as frivolous and out of place all that blackletter learning, which some men, far less
versed in such matters than himself, had introduced into the discussion. "We are," he said, "at
this moment out of the beaten path. If therefore we are determined
to move only in that path, we cannot move at all.

A man in a revolution resolving to do nothing which is not strictly according to established form resembles
a man who has lost himself in the wilderness, and who stands crying'Where is the king's highway?
I will walk nowhere but on the king's highway.'In a wilderness a man should take the track which
will carry him home. In a revolution we must have recourse to the highest law, the safety of the state."
Another veteran Roundhead, Colonel Birch, took the same side, and argued with great force and keenness
from the precedent of 1660. Seymour and his supporters were beaten in the Committee, and did not
venture to divide the House on the Report. The Bill passed rapidly, and received the royal assent on the
tenth day after the accession of William and Mary. [33] The law which turned the Convention into
a Parliament contained a clause providing that no person should, after the first of March, sit
or vote in either House without taking the oaths to the new King and Queen. This enactment produced
great agitation throughout society. The adherents of the exiled dynasty hoped and confidently predicted
that the recusants would be numerous. The minority in both Houses, it was said, would be true to the cause
of hereditary monarchy. There might be here and there a traitor; but
the great body of those who had voted for a Regency would be firm.
Only two Bishops at most would recognise the usurpers.

Seymour would retire from public life rather than abjure his principles. Grafton had determined to
fly to France and to throw himself at the feet of his uncle. With such rumours as these all the coffeehouses
of London were filled during the latter part of February. So intense was the public anxiety that,
if any man of rank was missed, two days running, at his usual haunts, it was immediately whispered
that he had stolen away to Saint Germains. [34] The second of March arrived; and the event quieted
the fears of one party, and confounded the hopes of the other. The Primate indeed and several
of his suffragans stood obstinately aloof: but three Bishops and seventy-three temporal peers
took the oaths. At the next meeting of the Upper House several more prelates came in. Within a
week about a hundred Lords had qualified themselves to sit. Others, who were prevented by illness
from appearing, sent excuses and professions of attachment to their Majesties. Grafton refuted
all the stories which had been circulated about him by coming to be sworn on the first day. Two members
of the Ecclesiastical Commission, Mulgrave and Sprat, hastened to
make atonement for their fault by plighting their faith to William.

Beaufort, who had long been considered as the type of a royalist
of the old school, submitted after a very short hesitation.

Aylesbury and Dartmouth, though vehement Jacobites, had as little scruple about taking the oath of
allegiance as they afterwards had about breaking it. [35] The Hydes took different paths. Rochester
complied with the law; but Clarendon proved refractory. Many thought it strange that the brother
who had adhered to James till James absconded should be less sturdy than the brother who had been
in the Dutch camp. The explanation perhaps is that Rochester would have sacrificed much more than Clarendon
by refusing to take the oaths. Clarendon's income did not depend on the pleasure of the Government
but Rochester had a pension of four thousand a year, which he could not hope to retain if he
refused to acknowledge the new Sovereigns. Indeed, he had so many enemies that, during some months,
it seemed doubtful whether he would, on any terms, be suffered to retain the splendid reward which
he had earned by persecuting the Whigs and by sitting in the High Commission. He was saved from
what would have been a fatal blow to his fortunes by the intercession of Burnet, who had been deeply
injured by him, and who revenged himself as became a Christian divine.
 What
built St. Paul's Cathedral? Look at the heart of the matter, it was that divine Hebrew BOOK,--the
word partly of the man Moses, an outlaw tending his Midianitish herds, four thousand years
ago, in the wildernesses of Sinai! It is the strangest of things, yet nothing is truer. With
the art of Writing, of which Printing is a simple, an inevitable and comparatively insignificant
corollary, the true reign of miracles for mankind commenced. They made their way stealthily and
with great difficulty to the place where the boat lay. It was high and dry on the beach, and
though the fog hid the house where the owner of the boat lived, the boys knew that it was very
near. They launched the boat with the utmost caution, lest any noise
should awaken the bad-tempered man with the shot-gun.

They had it almost launched, when Harry's foot slipped on a wet stone, and he fell with a loud crash,
clinging to the boat, and dragging Tom and Joe down with him.

It was very certain that if anything could wake the owner of the boat, he must be awake by
this time; so the boys sprang up, and shoving the boat into the water, regardless of the noise, seized
the oars, and rowed away into the fog. When they had gained what they thought was a safe distance
from the shore they ceased rowing, and congratulated themselves that they were all right at
last. To be sure, Harry had scraped his ankle badly; Tom had forgotten the coffee, and left it on the
shore; and Joe had put the sugar in the bottom of the leaky boat, where it was rapidly dissolving
into syrup; but they were once more afloat, and expected to reach their comfortable camp within
the next twenty minutes.

There was not a particle of air stirring, and not a star was visible, so they had absolutely nothing
to steer by. They could not even hear the sound of the water which ordinarily lapped the shore.
Still, they were not discouraged. Harry thought he knew which way the camp lay, and so he and
Tom rowed in what they imagined was the right direction.

They rowed for two hours without finding the island, and without reaching
the shore. They could not understand it. The lake seemed to have grown
in the night, and to have reached the size of Lake Ontario. They knew
that by daylight they could row across it at its widest part in less
than an hour, but now it seemed impossible to find any shore. The Teacher needed not now to gather men personally round
him, that he might speak to them what he knew: print it in a Book, and all learners far and
wide, for a trifle, had it each at his own fireside, much more effectually to learn it!--Doubtless
there is still peculiar virtue in Speech; even writers of Books may still, in some circumstances,
find it convenient to speak also,--witness our present meeting here! There is, one would say,
and must ever remain while man has a tongue, a distinct province for Speech as well as for
Writing and Printing. In regard to all things this must remain; to Universities among others.
But the limits of the two have nowhere yet been pointed out, ascertained; much less put in
practice: the University which would completely take in that great new fact, of the existence
of Printed Books, and stand on a clear footing for the Nineteenth Century as the Paris one
did for the Thirteenth, has not yet come into existence. If we think of it, all that a University,
or final highest School can do for us, is still but what the first School began doing,--teach
us to read. We learn to read, in various languages, in various sciences; we learn the alphabet
and letters of all manner of Books. But the place where we are to get knowledge, even theoretic
knowledge, is the Books themselves! It depends on what we read, after all manner of Professors
have done their best for us. The true University of these days is a Collection of Books.

But to the Church itself, as I hinted already, all is changed, in its preaching, in its working,
by the introduction of Books. The Church is the working recognized Union of our Priests or
Prophets, of those who by wise teaching guide the souls of men. While there was no Writing,
even while there was no Easy-writing, or Printing, the preaching of the voice was the natural
sole method of performing this. But now with Books!--He that can write a true Book, to persuade
England, is not he the Bishop and Archbishop, the Primate of England and of All England? I
many a time say, the writers of Newspapers, Pamphlets, Poems, Books, these are the real working
effective Church of a modern country. Nay not only our preaching, but even our worship, is
not it too accomplished by means of Printed Books? The noble sentiment which a gifted soul
has clothed for us in melodious words, which brings melody into our hearts,--is not this essentially,
if we will understand it, of the nature of worship? I did not receive these orders with more
satisfaction than I had done the former; but I had no means of escape and must necessarily
obey. Wherefore, having taken our leaves, we prepared for our departure, and were unexpectedly commanded
to remain till next day. In the mean time, he conveyed a great part of his infantry during the
night to the other side of a mountain. Next morning early, the Ruiscasson, or conductor of
ambassadors, carried us to the top of the hill, as meaning to confer with us on some important
subject, and on the appearance of the Persian infantry under march, he pointed them out to
us as if he had been surprised at seeing so many additional troops
coming to the royal camp.

The better to favour this deception, some of his slaves exclaimed as astonished, that there were
a great many soldiers, and that at least 10,000 were coming to reinforce the army. But we easily
saw through the contrivance, and were certain that these pretended new troops were merely the
ordinary royal escort, which had only changed their position to impose upon us. After this little
comedy, the Ruiscasson gave us the royal letters for our masters, and we returned to our tents.
From the information of M. Josaphat and others, the military force of this king cannot exceed
20,000 cavalry, some of whom have wooden bucklers about eighteen inches long. Others have a kind of
cuirasses made of very thin plates of steel, which they wear over their ordinary habits. Their
usual arms are bows and arrows, and cimeters, while some have small leathern targets covered
with silk, and others carry helmets and cuirasses. Their horses are beautiful and vigorous,
and very numerous. In regard to the manners of the Persians, and the state of the kingdom, I
shall mention what I know of these subjects as occasion may offer during the recital of my travels;
but I do not think it proper to weary my readers with any lengthened
detail.

SECTION V. Journey of Contarini from Persia, through Georgia and
Mingrelia, to the city Phasis.

Being entirely ready to depart on the 1st of July, we took leave
of M. Josaphat Barbaro in his tent, when we mutually shed tears in
sincere grief at our separation.

Having recommended myself to the protection of God, I mounted on horseback, and began my journey,
accompanied by the patriarch of Antioch, Marcus Ruffus the Muscovite, and the two Persian ambassadors,
intending to return by way of Phasis, which is under the dominion of Uzun-Hassan. To this route we were
advised by certain birds of bad augury, who were omens of the terrible dangers we had to encounter
in the sequel. Coming to the villages of the catholic Armenians, formerly mentioned, we were
well received by their bishops, and attended the mass regularly during three days that we had
to remain here, laying in a stock of provisions for the journey. From thence we came to the frontiers
of Georgia, travelling through plains interspersed with hills, and arrived on the 12th of July at
Typsi [1], which is subject to the king of the Georgians. This city stands upon a hill, at
the foot of which runs the river Tigre, and it is defended by a good castle on the summit
of an eminence. It was formerly a celebrated place, but is at present almost utterly ruined, though
beginning to revive, and contains many good catholics. In this place we took up our lodgings with a person named
Arminius, of the catholic faith. In travelling through Georgia, we found a few villages composed
of huts, and some castles among the mountains, but these were rare and distant. On the 19th of July,
being near the frontiers of Mingrelia, we chanced to meet with Pangratius, king of Georgia, in
the midst of a forest surrounded by mountains, and went to pay our
respects to him, when he invited us to dinner.

We had to sit on the ground, having a skin spread before us instead of a table-cloth, and were
served with roasted meat and fowls, very ill dressed; but, by way of making amends, they frequently
presented us with large goblets of wine, as they seem to place all dignity and merit in deep drinking.
For this reason it is their custom, at the conclusion of their meals,
to challenge one another to drink, and he who empties the greatest number
of goblets, is held in highest esteem. As the Turks drink no wine,
their presence was some restraint that day on their usual bacchanalian
contests, and as we neither could nor would compete with them, we
were held in great contempt.

The king was about forty years old, and of large make, with a strong resemblance to the Tartar
countenance. We parted from the king of Georgia next day, and on the 22d of July, on the confines of
Mingrelia, we fell in with a Georgian commander at the head of some troops, both cavalry and infantry
who was posted in this place to prevent injury from the disorders that had broke out in Mingrelia,
in consequence of the death of Bendian, prince of that country. These people stopped, and frightened
us with, many cruel menaces; but at length, after being robbed of two quivers full of arrows, and
having to gratify them with some money, we escaped from them, and made the best of our way to a distance.
Leaving the public road, we struck off into a thick wood, where we passed the night in prodigious
apprehension. On the following day, while approaching the city of Cotati [2], we met some peasants
in a narrow pass, who prevented us for some time from going forwards, and even threatened to put
us to death. After much altercation, and many threats, they seized three horses belonging to the Turks
[3], which were with great difficulty redeemed for twenty ducats. On the evening we reached Cutais,
which is a royal fortress.

While passing a bridge over a river, early in the morning of the 24th of July, we were again attacked
by robbers, who came upon us suddenly, and, after many threats, forced us to pay the full value of
our horses, before they would allow us to continue our journey. After passing this bridge, we entered
Mingrelia, where we followed our wonted custom of sleeping under the canopy of heaven, though
we had many worse inconveniencies and dangers to encounter: for, on the 25th of July, having
passed over a river by means of rafts, we were conducted to the dwelling of a certain lady, named
Maresca, sister of the deceased prince Badian, who received us at
first with much civility, and treated us with bread and wine, after
which we were conducted into a field belonging to her, which was close
shut on all sides.

On the morrow, when we were about to depart, we offered her a present of twenty ducats, as a return
for her hospitality, which at first she pretended to refuse; but we soon discovered her treachery,
as she insisted on our paying two ducats as a ransom for each of our horses. We expressed
our astonishment at this rapacity, and endeavoured to represent our inability to comply with
such exorbitant demands, but all to no purpose, and we were forced to comply, being afraid that
she might even have plundered us of every thing. Leaving this rapacious dame, we arrived at Phasis
on the 27th of July, some on horseback and others in boats, where we again lodged with Martha the
Circassian lady, whom I formerly mentioned. After having run many risks in our journey, we here
learnt a piece of most afflictive news, that the Turks had taken possession of Kaffa or Theodosia
in the Crimea, by which we were deprived of our last resource, and shut out apparently from every
hope of continuing our voyage homewards. Our distress on receiving this intelligence may easily
be conceived, and, in fact, we were so much cast down, as not to
know what measures to pursue, or to which hand to turn us.

Louis, the patriarch of Antioch, resolved upon going through Tartary and Russia, with which
route he was acquainted. It was to no purpose that I urged the promises we had mutually come under
at the beginning of our journey, never to separate on any account. To this he answered, that
the unforeseen circumstances which had occurred, were a sufficient warrant to every one to consult
his own individual safety. I insisted and beseeched him not to treat me with such unfeeling cruelty,
but all in vain, for he prepared to set off along with the Turkish ambassador, who had been sent
by Uzun-Hassan as his particular companion. In this extremity I went to Marcus Ruffus, and the
Turkish ambassador who was joined with him by the king of Persia, to whom I mentioned my intention of returning
back to Uzun-Hassan. They pretended to approve my plan, and even to join me, and we embraced
as entering, into promise of keeping together; but they secretly came to a determination of taking their
journey through the province of Gorgore, which is subject to Calcicanus, and to the city of Vati,
[4] which is on the frontiers of the Turks, and pays tribute to
the Grand Signior. The patriarch set out on the 6th of August, and
the next day Marcus Ruffus followed him, accompanied by several Russians,
partly on horseback, and partly by means of boats.

Their intentions were to travel from Vati, by Shamaki, anciently Cyropolis, and thence into Tartary.
Thus left alone in a strange land, I leave any reasonable person to think what were the embarrassments
with which I was surrounded. I was unacquainted with a single individual, having no company
but that of my domestics, and had very little money remaining. In short, I was reduced almost
to despair, of ever being able to get out of the country. In this state of distress I fell into
a violent fever, and could get no other nourishment but bread and
water, and a pullet occasionally with much difficulty; and my fever
increased to such a degree that I became delirious.

All my domestics were attacked soon after with the same fever, the priest Stephen only excepted, who
had to take care of us all. My only bed was a wretched mattress, which had been lent me by a
person named John Volcan; and my life was despaired of by every one, till the 9th of September,
when, by the cares of Stephen and of Martha, my good hostess, or rather through the mercy of God,
the fever abated, and I soon recovered my former health, to the astonishment of every one. My domestics
likewise recovered, and we began again to consult on the best means of escaping out of our present
situation.

Some proposed to take the road of Syria, but I deemed this too dangerous; and we at length came
to the determination, of going by Shamaki, into Tartary, and thence by Russia, Poland, and Germany.
I got accordingly on horseback on the 10th of September, but had hardly rode two miles when I was
forced to dismount and rest myself on the ground. I was, therefore, obliged to return to my
lodging in Phasis, where we remained till the 17th, when, being all of us restored to health
and strength, we again resumed our journey, after having implored the protection and assistance
of God. I now took a certain Greek into my service, who could speak the Mingrelian language,
who occasioned me a thousand troubles, which it were tedious to recount. [1] This in all probability
is a corruption of Tiflis, or Teffliz, the capital of Georgia Georgia,
which is situated on the river Kur or Cyrus, erroneously named Tigre
in the text.

The proper name of this country is Gurgi-stan, or the country of the Gurgi which has been
corrupted by the Europeans into Georgia.-- E. [2] Cutais in Imeritia, named Cotachis on a former
occasion in the text.-- E. [3] These Turks must have been the Persian ambassadors of Uzun-Hassan;--
E. [4] This proposed route seems to have been through the province of Guria to Batum; and, from
the sequel, to have returned to Georgia and Shirvan, passing through Derbent and the Caspian gates,
or Daghisten, into western Tartary. But the names in the text are too corrupt for any certainty.
Calcicanus, in the text, is probably a corruption of Kalo Johannes, who was then prince, or emperor,
of Trebisond.-- E. SECTION VI. Leaving Phasis, Contarini travels
through Mingrelia and Georgia, into Media, and, passing the Caspian,
arrives in Tartary.

Leaving Phasis, as before mentioned, on the 17th of September; and taking the road of Mingrelia, we
came to Cotati, or Cutais, on the 21st of that month, extremely worn out through the consequences
of our late illness, and the fatigues of the journey; and as the
Greek whom I had hired never ceased to give me vexation, I here parted
with him as handsomely as I could.

We remained
two days at Cutais, among people who knew us not, and whose language
we were quite ignorant of.

Leaving
that place, and tracing back our former steps, we passed over several
mountains in much fear, and arrived at Tiflis on the 30th of September,
where we took shelter in the chapel of a certain Armenian catholic,
who had more the appearance of a dead person than of a living man,
but who rendered us every possible service.

This
man had a son who lived with him, and who, unfortunately for us, was
seized with the plague, which had raged in that part of the country this
year. From him one of my servants, named Maffeo of Bergamo, caught
the distemper, who still kept about me during two days, though ill,
as he was my own particular domestic.

At length, growing worse, he had to take to his bed, when the distemper shewed itself; and as he
lay in the same room with me, and the house could not afford me another,
I was forced to take refuge in a hovel where some cows were kept at
night; and as the Armenian refused to allow Maffeo to remain in his
house, I was constrained to take him into the same place with myself,
where Stephen took care of him, till God pleased to take him out of
the world.

After the death of Maffeo, I experienced great difficulty to procure
another stable for myself, that I might get away from the morbid air
of that in which my poor servant died.

In this extremity we were utterly abandoned, except by one old man, who understood a little of
our language, and who served us with much affection.

We remained at this place till the 21st October, and on the evening before our intended departure,
the Persian ambassador, who had accompanied the patriarch, came to Tiflis. He complained grievously
of having been plundered, through the fault of the patriarch, with whom he had travelled to Lavógasia,
where he had left him, and was now on his road to complain to Uzun-Hassan. We agreed to travel
in company from Tiflis, a city belonging to Pancratis [1]. From thence in two days we entered
the territories of Uzun-Hassan, as we took the road towards Shamaki, or Cyropolis, which is situated
in a fertile and pleasant country. On the 26th of October we separated, as the Persian went to Uzun-Hassan
at Tauris, and I took the road for the dominions of Sivanse, in which Shamaki stands; but by means of
the Persian ambassador I procurred a molah, or Mahometan priest, to guide me on the road to
Shamaki. This country is greatly more beautiful and more fertile than the dominions of Uzun-Hassan,
and is ruled over by Sivanse, king of Media [2]. Of this country Shamaki is the capital, at which
place I arrived on the 1st November 1474. This city is not so large as Tauris, but, as far as
I could judge, surpasses that place in the goodness and abundance of every thing, especially
in excellent cattle. It produces great quantities of excellent silk,
of which they manufacture various kinds of very slight stuffs. While
here, I had the good fortune to be rejoined by Marcus Ruffus, the
Muscovite ambassador, who had parted from me at Phasis, as formerly
related. Immediately on learning that I was in the city, he came
to visit me, and we embraced with cordiality.

I now earnestly entreated him to receive me and my domestics into his society for the remainder
of the journey, to which he very readily agreed. We left Shamaki on the 6th of November, for the city
of Derbent, which is called, in the language of the country, the Caucassian Gates, or the
Iron Gates.

This city is under the dominion of Sivanse, and stands on the frontiers of Tartary. On our journey
we travelled sometimes over plains and sometimes on mountains, and were tolerably well treated by the
Turkish inhabitants, with whom we lodged by the way. About mid-way between these two cities
we came to a large village, where we found great abundance of excellent fruits, particularly admirable
apples. We arrived on the 12th of November at Derbent, and were advised to pass the winter
in that place; as it was necessary, in our way to Russia, to cross the
desert of Tartary, which is much easier in the spring of the year,
and likewise because it was proper for us to cross over the Caspian
to the Tartar city of Citracan.

The city of Derbent is situated on the shore of the Caspian, which the Mardians call the sea of Bachaan
or Bacou. This city is said to have been built by Alexander the Great, and is called the Iron
Gate, because it entirely closes up the only passage from Tartary into Media and Persia, by means
of a deep valley reaching from Circassia. Derbent is fortified with a thick well built wall, reaching
from the castle at the foot of the mountain all the way to the sea; but not above a sixth part
of the space within the walls is inhabited, all that end nearest the sea being in ruins, among which
are several tombs. The country about this city produces abundance of all kinds of fruits, among
which are plenty of grapes, from which the inhabitants make wine. The Caspian, or Sea of Hircania,
which has no communication whatever with the ocean, is about the same size with the Euxine or Black
Sea, and is very deep. They catch in this sea great quantities of sturgeons, and sea-wolves as
they are called; and there are prodigious quantities of sea-dogs, or seals, having the head, feet,
and tail like ordinary dogs. The only other remarkable fish is of a round form, about a yard and a half
in diameter, with no perceptible head or other member, from which
the natives extract a great quantity of oil, which they use in their
lamps, and with which they anoint their camels.

The inhabitants of this country, who are all Mahometans, are neither cruel nor barbarous, and used
us exceedingly well; having once asked us who we were, and being answered that we were Christians, they
troubled us with no farther inquiries.

My dress at this time consisted of coarse and much worn cloth, lined with lambs skin, above which
I wore a leathern robe, and my hat was of skin; in which dress I frequently went to the market
to purchase flesh and other provisions, which I carried home myself. On one of these occasions a person eyed
me attentively, and, turning to some of his comrades, said, this man was not born to the
employment of carrying meat. Marcus Ruffus, who happened to be along with me, explained what the man
had said; and I was astonished at being recognized in so shabby a dress, which I thought
must have proved a sufficient concealment: but, in truth, as I have said before, they are a
very good kind of people. During my residence in Derbent, I was anxious to learn some certain intelligence
respecting the state of affairs at the court of Uzun-Hassan, for which purpose I sent Demetrius
de Seze, my interpreter, with letters to Josaphat Barbaro at Tauris, which is twenty days journey
from Derbent. He returned at the end of fifty days, bringing answers from Barbaro, informing
me that the king still remained at Tauris, but that he was utterly
ignorant of his affairs. Let us have the crisis;
we shall either have death or the cure. I call this gross, steam-engine Utilitarianism an approach
towards new Faith. It was a laying-down of cant; a saying to oneself: "Well then, this world
is a dead iron machine, the god of it Gravitation and selfish Hunger; let us see what, by checking
and balancing, and good adjustment of tooth and pinion, can be made of it!" Benthamism has
something complete, manful, in such fearless committal of itself to what it finds true; you
may call it Heroic, though a Heroism with its eyes put out! It is the culminating point, and
fearless ultimatum, of what lay in the half-and-half state, pervading man's whole existence
in that Eighteenth Century. It seems to me, all deniers of Godhood, and all lip-believers of
it, are bound to be Benthamites, if they have courage and honesty. Benthamism is an eyeless
Heroism: the Human Species, like a hapless blinded Samson grinding in the Philistine Mill,
clasps convulsively the pillars of its Mill; brings huge ruin down, but ultimately deliverance
withal. Of Bentham I meant to say no harm.

But this I do say, and would wish all men to know and lay to heart, that he who discerns nothing
but Mechanism in the Universe has in the fatalest way missed the secret of the Universe altogether.
That all Godhood should vanish out of men's conception of this Universe seems to me precisely
the most brutal error,--I will not disparage Heathenism by calling it a Heathen error,--that
men could fall into. It is not true; it is false at the very heart of it. A man who thinks
so will think wrong about all things in the world; this original sin will vitiate all other
conclusions he can form. One might call it the most lamentable of Delusions,--not forgetting
Witchcraft itself! Witchcraft worshipped at least a living Devil; but this worships a dead
iron Devil; no God, not even a Devil! Whatsoever is noble, divine, inspired, drops thereby
out of life. There remains everywhere in life a despicable caput-mortuum; the mechanical hull,
all soul fled out of it. How can a man act heroically? The "Doctrine of Motives" will teach
him that it is, under more or less disguise, nothing but a wretched love of Pleasure, fear
of Pain; that Hunger, of applause, of cash, of whatsoever victual it may be, is the ultimate
fact of man's life. Atheism, in brief;--which does indeed frightfully punish itself. The man,
I say, is become spiritually a paralytic man; this godlike Universe a dead mechanical steam-engine,
all working by motives, checks, balances, and I know not what; wherein, as in the detestable
belly of some Phalaris'-Bull of his own contriving, he the poor Phalaris sits miserably dying!

Belief I define to be the healthy act of a man's mind. It is a mysterious indescribable process,
that of getting to believe;--indescribable, as all vital acts are. We have our mind given us,
not that it may cavil and argue, but that it may see into something, give us clear belief and
understanding about something, whereon we are then to proceed to act. Doubt, truly, is not
itself a crime. Certainly we do not rush out, clutch up the first thing we find, and straightway
believe that! All manner of doubt, inquiry, [Gr.] skepsis as it is named, about all manner
of objects, dwells in every reasonable mind. It is the mystic working of the mind, on the object
it is getting to know and believe. Belief comes out of all this, above ground, like the tree
from its hidden roots. But now if, even on common things, we require that a man keep his doubts
silent, and not babble of them till they in some measure become affirmations or denials; how
much more in regard to the highest things, impossible to speak of in words at all! That a man
parade his doubt, and get to imagine that debating and logic (which means at best only the
manner of telling us your thought, your belief or disbelief, about a thing) is the triumph
and true work of what intellect he has: alas, this is as if you should overturn the tree, and
instead of green boughs, leaves and fruits, show us ugly taloned roots turned up into the air,--and
no growth, only death and misery going on!

For the Scepticism, as I said, is not intellectual only; it is moral also; a chronic atrophy
and disease of the whole soul. A man lives by believing something; not by debating and arguing
about many things. A sad case for him when all that he can manage to believe is something he
can button in his pocket, and with one or the other organ eat and digest! Lower than that he
will not get. We call those ages in which he gets so low the mournfulest, sickest and meanest
of all ages. The world's heart is palsied, sick: how can any limb of it be whole? Genuine Acting
ceases in all departments of the world's work; dexterous Similitude of Acting begins. The world's
wages are pocketed, the world's work is not done. Heroes have gone out; Quacks have come in.
Accordingly, what Century, since the end of the Roman world, which also was a time of scepticism,
simulacra and universal decadence, so abounds with Quacks as that Eighteenth? Consider them,
with their tumid sentimental vaporing about virtue, benevolence,--the wretched Quack-squadron,
Cagliostro at the head of them! Few men were without quackery; they had got to consider it
a necessary ingredient and amalgam for truth. Chatham, our brave Chatham himself, comes down
to the House, all wrapt and bandaged; he "has crawled out in great bodily suffering," and so
on;--forgets, says Walpole, that he is acting the sick man; in the fire of debate, snatches
his arm from the sling, and oratorically swings and brandishes it! Chatham himself lives the
strangest mimetic life, half-hero, half-quack, all along. For indeed the world is full of dupes;
and you have to gain the world's suffrage! How the duties of the world will be done in that
case, what quantities of error, which means failure, which means sorrow and misery, to some
and to many, will gradually accumulate in all provinces of the world's business, we need not
compute.

It seems to me, you lay your finger here on the heart of the world's maladies, when you call
it a Sceptical World. An insincere world; a godless untruth of a world! It is out of this,
as I consider, that the whole tribe of social pestilences, French Revolutions, Chartisms, and
what not, have derived their being,--their chief necessity to be. This must alter. Till this
alter, nothing can beneficially alter. My one hope of the world, my inexpugnable consolation
in looking at the miseries of the world, is that this is altering. Here and there one does
now find a man who knows, as of old, that this world is a Truth, and no Plausibility and Falsity;
that he himself is alive, not dead or paralytic; and that the world is alive, instinct with
Godhood, beautiful and awful, even as in the beginning of days! One man once knowing this,
many men, all men, must by and by come to know it. It lies there clear, for whosoever will
take the spectacles off his eyes and honestly look, to know! For such a man the Unbelieving
Century, with its unblessed Products, is already past; a new century is already come. The old
unblessed Products and Performances, as solid as they look, are Phantasms, preparing speedily
to vanish. To this and the other noisy, very great-looking Simulacrum with the whole world
huzzaing at its heels, he can say, composedly stepping aside: Thou art not true; thou art not
extant, only semblant; go thy way!--Yes, hollow Formulism, gross Benthamism, and other unheroic
atheistic Insincerity is visibly and even rapidly declining. An unbelieving Eighteenth Century
is but an exception,--such as now and then occurs. I prophesy that the world will once more
become sincere; a believing world; with many Heroes in it, a heroic world! It will then be
a victorious world; never till then.

Or indeed what of the world and its victories? Men speak too much about the world. Each one
of us here, let the world go how it will, and be victorious or not victorious, has he not a
Life of his own to lead? One Life; a little gleam of Time between two Eternities; no second
chance to us forevermore! It were well for us to live not as fools and simulacra, but as wise
and realities. The world's being saved will not save us; nor the world's being lost destroy
us. We should look to ourselves: there is great merit here in the "duty of staying at home"!
And, on the whole, to say truth, I never heard of "world's" being "saved" in any other way.
That mania of saving worlds is itself a piece of the Eighteenth Century with its windy sentimentalism.
Let us not follow it too far. For the saving of the world I will trust confidently to the Maker
of the world; and look a little to my own saving, which I am more competent to!--In brief,
for the world's sake, and for our own, we will rejoice greatly that Scepticism, Insincerity,
Mechanical Atheism, with all their poison-dews, are going, and as good as gone.--

Now it was under such conditions, in those times of Johnson, that our Men of Letters had to
live. Times in which there was properly no truth in life. Old truths had fallen nigh dumb;
the new lay yet hidden, not trying to speak. That Man's Life here below was a Sincerity and
Fact, and would forever continue such, no new intimation, in that dusk of the world, had yet
dawned. No intimation; not even any French Revolution,--which we define to be a Truth once
more, though a Truth clad in hell-fire! How different was the Luther's pilgrimage, with its
assured goal, from the Johnson's, girt with mere traditions, suppositions, grown now incredible,
unintelligible! Mahomet's Formulas were of "wood waxed and oiled," and could be burnt out of
one's way: poor Johnson's were far more difficult to burn.--The strong man will ever find work,
which means difficulty, pain, to the full measure of his strength. But to make out a victory,
in those circumstances of our poor Hero as Man of Letters, was perhaps more difficult than
in any. Not obstruction, disorganization, Bookseller Osborne and Fourpence-halfpenny a day;
not this alone; but the light of his own soul was taken from him. No landmark on the Earth;
and, alas, what is that to having no loadstar in the Heaven! We need not wonder that none of
those Three men rose to victory. That they fought truly is the highest praise. With a mournful
sympathy we will contemplate, if not three living victorious Heroes, as I said, the Tombs of
three fallen Heroes! They fell for us too; making a way for us. There are the mountains which
they hurled abroad in their confused War of the Giants; under which, their strength and life
spent, they now lie buried.

I have already written of these three Literary Heroes, expressly or incidentally; what I suppose
is known to most of you; what need not be spoken or written a second time. They concern us
here as the singular Prophets of that singular age; for such they virtually were; and the aspect
they and their world exhibit, under this point of view, might lead us into reflections enough!
I call them, all three, Genuine Men more or less; faithfully, for most part unconsciously,
struggling to be genuine, and plant themselves on the everlasting truth of things. This to
a degree that eminently distinguishes them from the poor artificial mass of their contemporaries;
and renders them worthy to be considered as Speakers, in some measure, of the everlasting truth,
as Prophets in that age of theirs. By Nature herself a noble necessity was laid on them to
be so. They were men of such magnitude that they could not live on unrealities,--clouds, froth
and all inanity gave way under them: there was no footing for them but on firm earth; no rest
or regular motion for them, if they got not footing there. To a certain extent, they were Sons
of Nature once more in an age of Artifice; once more, Original Men.

As for Johnson, I have always considered him to be, by nature, one of our great English souls.
A strong and noble man; so much left undeveloped in him to the last: in a kindlier element
what might he not have been,--Poet, Priest, sovereign Ruler! On the whole, a man must not complain
of his "element," of his "time," or the like; it is thriftless work doing so. His time is bad:
well then, he is there to make it better!--Johnson's youth was poor, isolated, hopeless, very
miserable. Indeed, it does not seem possible that, in any the favorablest outward circumstances,
Johnson's life could have been other than a painful one. The world might have had more of profitable
work out of him, or less; but his effort against the world's work could never have been a light
one. Nature, in return for his nobleness, had said to him, Live in an element of diseased sorrow.
Nay, perhaps the sorrow and the nobleness were intimately and even inseparably connected with
each other. At all events, poor Johnson had to go about girt with continual hypochondria, physical
and spiritual pain. Like a Hercules with the burning Nessus'-shirt on him, which shoots in
on him dull incurable misery: the Nessus'-shirt not to be stript off, which is his own natural
skin! In this manner he had to live. Figure him there, with his scrofulous diseases, with his
great greedy heart, and unspeakable chaos of thoughts; stalking mournful as a stranger in this
Earth; eagerly devouring what spiritual thing he could come at: school-languages and other
merely grammatical stuff, if there were nothing better! The largest soul that was in all England;
and provision made for it of "fourpence-halfpenny a day." Yet a giant invincible soul; a true
man's. One remembers always that story of the shoes at Oxford: the rough, seamy-faced, rawboned
College Servitor stalking about, in winter-season, with his shoes worn out; how the charitable
Gentleman Commoner secretly places a new pair at his door; and the rawboned Servitor, lifting
them, looking at them near, with his dim eyes, with what thoughts,--pitches them out of window!
Wet feet, mud, frost, hunger or what you will; but not beggary: we cannot stand beggary! Rude
stubborn self-help here; a whole world of squalor, rudeness, confused misery and want, yet
of nobleness and manfulness withal. It is a type of the man's life, this pitching away of the
shoes. An original man;--not a second-hand, borrowing or begging man. Let us stand on our own
basis, at any rate! On such shoes as we ourselves can get. On frost and mud, if you will, but
honestly on that;--on the reality and substance which Nature gives us, not on the semblance,
on the thing she has given another than us--!

And yet with all this rugged pride of manhood and self-help, was there ever soul more tenderly
affectionate, loyally submissive to what was really higher than he? Great souls are always
loyally submissive, reverent to what is over them; only small mean souls are otherwise. I could
not find a better proof of what I said the other day, That the sincere man was by nature the
obedient man; that only in a World of Heroes was there loyal Obedience to the Heroic. The essence
of originality is not that it be new: Johnson believed altogether in the old; he found the
old opinions credible for him, fit for him; and in a right heroic manner lived under them.
He is well worth study in regard to that. For we are to say that Johnson was far other than
a mere man of words and formulas; he was a man of truths and facts. He stood by the old formulas;
the happier was it for him that he could so stand: but in all formulas that he could stand
by, there needed to be a most genuine substance. Very curious how, in that poor Paper-age,
so barren, artificial, thick-quilted with Pedantries, Hearsays, the great Fact of this Universe
glared in, forever wonderful, indubitable, unspeakable, divine-infernal, upon this man too!
How he harmonized his Formulas with it, how he managed at all under such circumstances: that
is a thing worth seeing. The force which had once seemed sufficient to decide the fate of a kingdom
melted away in a few days; and the victories of Tippermuir and Kilsyth were followed by the
disaster of Philiphaugh.

Dundee did not live long enough to experience a similar reverse of fortune; but there is every
reason to believe that, had his life been prolonged one fortnight, his history would have
been the history of Montrose retold.

Dundee made one attempt, soon after the gathering of the clans in Lochaber, to induce them to
submit to the discipline of a regular army. He called a council of war to consider this question. His
opinion was supported by all the officers who had joined him from the low country. Distinguished
among them were James Seton, Earl of Dunfermline, and James Galloway, Lord Dunkeld. The Celtic
chiefs took the other side. Lochiel, the ablest among them, was their spokesman, and argued the
point with much ingenuity and natural eloquence. "Our system,"-- such was the substance of
his reasoning, "may not be the best: but we were bred to it from childhood: we understand it perfectly:
it is suited to our peculiar institutions, feelings, and manners. Making war after our own fashion,
we have the expertness and coolness of veterans. Making war in any other way, we shall be raw and
awkward recruits. To turn us into soldiers like those of Cromwell and Turenne would be the business
of years: and we have not even weeks to spare. We have time enough to unlearn our own discipline,
but not time enough to learn yours." Dundee, with high compliments to Lochiel, declared himself convinced,
and perhaps was convinced: for the reasonings of the wise old chief were by no means without
weight, [344] Yet some Celtic usages of war were such as Dundee could
not tolerate.

Cruel as he was, his cruelty always had a method and a purpose. He still hoped that he might be able
to win some chiefs who remained neutral; and he carefully avoided every act which could goad them
into open hostility. This was undoubtedly a policy likely to promote the interest of James; but
the interest of James was nothing to the wild marauders who used his name and rallied round his
banner merely for the purpose of making profitable forays and wreaking
old grudges. Keppoch especially, who hated the Mackintoshes much
more than he loved the Stuarts, not only plundered the territory
of his enemies, but burned whatever he could not carry away.

Dundee was moved to great wrath by the sight of the blazing dwellings. "I would rather," he said, "carry
a musket in a respectable regiment than be captain of such a gang of thieves." Punishment was of course
out of the question. Indeed it may be considered as a remarkable proof of the general's influence
that Coll of the Cows deigned to apologize for conduct for which in a well governed army he
would have been shot, [345] As the Grants were in arms for King William, their property was considered
as fair prize. Their territory was invaded by a party of Camerons: a skirmish took place: some blood
was shed; and many cattle were carried off to Dundee's camp, where
provisions were greatly needed.

This raid produced a quarrel, the history of which illustrates in the most striking manner the
character of a Highland army. Among those who were slain in resisting the Camerons was a Macdonald
of the Glengarry branch, who had long resided among the Grants, had become in feelings and opinions
a Grant, and had absented himself from the muster of his tribe. Though he had been guilty of a high
offence against the Gaelic code of honour and morality, his kinsmen remembered the sacred tie which
he had forgotten. Good or bad, he was bone of their bone: he was flesh of their flesh; and he should
have been reserved for their justice. The name which he bore, the blood of the Lords of the Isles,
should have been his protection. Glengarry in a rage went to Dundee and demanded vengeance on Lochiel
and the whole race of Cameron. Dundee replied that the unfortunate gentleman who had fallen
was a traitor to the clan as well as to the King. Was it ever heard of in war that the person of an
enemy, a combatant in arms, was to be held inviolable on account of his name and descent?
And, even if wrong had been done, how was it to be redressed?

Half the army must slaughter the other half before a finger could be laid on Lochiel. Glengarry
went away raging like a madman. Since his complaints were disregarded by those who ought to right
him, he would right himself: he would draw out his men, and fall sword in hand on the murderers
of his cousin. During some time he would listen to no expostulation. When he was reminded that Lochiel's
followers were in number nearly double of the Glengarry men, "No matter," he cried, "one Macdonald
is worth two Camerons." Had Lochiel been equally irritable and boastful, it is probable that the Highland
insurrection would have given little more trouble to the government, and that the rebels would
have perished obscurely in the wilderness by one another's claymores. But nature had bestowed
on him in large measure the qualities of a statesman, though fortune had hidden those qualities
in an obscure corner of the world. He saw that this was not a time
for brawling: his own character for courage had long been established;
and his temper was under strict government.

The fury of Glengarry, not being inflamed by any fresh provocation, rapidly abated. Indeed there
were some who suspected that he had never been quite so pugnacious as he had affected to be,
and that his bluster was meant only to keep up his own dignity in the eyes of his retainers. However
this might be, the quarrel was composed; and the two chiefs met, with the outward show of civility,
at the general's table, [346] What Dundee saw of his Celtic allies must have made him desirous
to have in his army some troops on whose obedience he could depend, and who would not, at a signal from
their colonel, turn their arms against their general and their king. He accordingly, during
the months of May and June, sent to Dublin a succession of letters
earnestly imploring assistance.

If six thousand, four thousand, three thousand, regular soldiers were now sent to Lochaber, he trusted
that his Majesty would soon hold a court in Holyrood. That such a force might be spared hardly
admitted of a doubt. The authority of James was at that time acknowledged in every part of Ireland,
except on the shores of Lough Erne and behind the ramparts of Londonderry. He had in that kingdom
an army of forty thousand men. An eighth part of such an army would scarcely be missed there, and
might, united with the clans which were in insurrection, effect great
things in Scotland.

Dundee received such answers to his applications as encouraged him to hope that a large and well appointed
force would soon be sent from Ulster to join him. He did not wish to try the chance of battle
before these succours arrived, [347] Mackay, on the other hand, was weary of marching to and fro
in a desert. His men were exhausted and out of heart.

He thought it desirable that they should withdraw from the hill country; and William was of the
same opinion. In June therefore the civil war was, as if by concert between the generals, completely
suspended. Dundee remained in Lochaber, impatiently awaiting the arrival of troops and supplies
from Ireland. It was impossible for him to keep his Highlanders together in a state of inactivity.
A vast extent of moor and mountain was required to furnish food for
so many mouths.

The clans therefore went back to their own glens, having promised to reassemble on the first summons.
Meanwhile Mackay's soldiers, exhausted by severe exertions and privations, were taking their ease
in quarters scattered over the low country from Aberdeen to Stirling. Mackay himself was at
Edinburgh, and was urging the ministers there to furnish him with the
means of constructing a chain of fortifications among the Grampians.

The ministers had, it should seem, miscalculated their military resources. It had been expected
that the Campbells would take the field in such force as would balance
the whole strength of the clans which marched under Dundee.

It had also been expected that the Covenanters of the West would hasten to swell the ranks of
the army of King William. Both expectations were disappointed. Argyle had found his principality
devastated, and his tribe disarmed and disorganized. A considerable time must elapse before his
standard would be surrounded by an array such as his forefathers had led to battle. The Covenanters
of the West were in general unwilling to enlist. They were assuredly not wanting in courage; and they
hated Dundee with deadly hatred. In their part of the country the memory of his cruelty was still
fresh. Every village had its own tale of blood. The greyheaded father
was missed in one dwelling, the hopeful stripling in another.

It was remembered but too well how the dragoons had stalked into the peasant's cottage, cursing
and damning him, themselves, and each other at every second word, pushing from the ingle nook his
grandmother of eighty, and thrusting their hands into the bosom of his daughter of sixteen;
how the abjuration had been tendered to him; how he had folded his arms and said "God's will be
done"; how the Colonel had called for a file with loaded muskets; and how in three minutes
the goodman of the house had been wallowing in a pool of blood at his own door. The seat of the
martyr was still vacant at the fireside; and every child could point out his grave still green amidst
the heath. When the people of this region called their oppressor a servant of the devil, they
were not speaking figuratively. They believed that between the bad man and the bad angel there
was a close alliance on definite terms; that Dundee had bound himself to do the work of hell
on earth, and that, for high purposes, hell was permitted to protect
its slave till the measure of his guilt should be full. But, intensely
as these men abhorred Dundee, most of them had a scruple about drawing
the sword for William.

A great meeting was held in the parish church of Douglas; and the question was propounded, whether,
at a time when war was in the land, and when an Irish invasion was expected, it were not a duty to
take arms. The debate was sharp and tumultuous. The orators on one side adjured their brethren not to
incur the curse denounced against the inhabitants of Meroz, who came not to the help of the
Lord against the mighty. The orators on the other side thundered against sinful associations. There
were malignants in William's Army: Mackay's own orthodoxy was problematical: to take military service
with such comrades, and under such a general, would be a sinful association. At length, after much
wrangling, and amidst great confusion, a vote was taken; and the majority pronounced that to take
military service would be a sinful association. There was however a large minority; and, from among the
members of this minority, the Earl of Angus was able to raise a body of infantry, which is still, after
the lapse of more than a hundred and sixty years, known by the name
of the Cameronian Regiment.

The first Lieutenant Colonel was Cleland, that implacable avenger of blood who had driven
Dundee from the Convention. There was no small difficulty in filling the ranks: for many West country Whigs,
who did not think it absolutely sinful to enlist, stood out for terms subversive of all military
discipline. Some would not serve under any colonel, major, captain, serjeant, or corporal, who was
not ready to sign the Covenant. Others insisted that, if it should be found absolutely necessary to appoint
any officer who had taken the tests imposed in the late reign, he should at least qualify himself
for command by publicly confessing his sin at the head of the regiment. Most of the enthusiasts
who had proposed these conditions were induced by dexterous management to abate much of their demands.
Yet the new regiment had a very peculiar character. The soldiers were all rigid Puritans. One of
their first acts was to petition the Parliament that all drunkenness, licentiousness, and profaneness
might be severely punished. Their own conduct must have been exemplary: for the worst crime which
the most extravagant bigotry could impute to them was that of huzzaing on the King's birthday.
It was originally intended that with the military organization of the corps should he interwoven
the organization of a Presbyterian congregation. Each company was to furnish an elder; and the elders
were, with the chaplain, to form an ecclesiastical court for the suppression of immorality and
heresy. Elders, however, were not appointed: but a noted hill preacher, Alexander Shields, was called
to the office of chaplain. It is not easy to conceive that fanaticism can be heated to a higher temperature
than that which is indicated by the writings of Shields. According to him, it should seem to
be the first duty of a Christian ruler to persecute to the death every heterodox subject, and the
first duty of every Christian subject to poniard a heterodox ruler. Yet there was then in Scotland an enthusiasm
compared with which the enthusiasm even of this man was lukewarm.

The extreme Covenanters protested against his defection as vehemently as he had protested against the Black
Indulgence and the oath of supremacy, and pronounced every man who entered Angus's regiment guilty of
a wicked confederacy with malignants, [348] Meanwhile Edinburgh Castle had fallen, after holding out
more than two months. Both the defence and the attack had been languidly conducted. The Duke of Gordon,
unwilling to incur the mortal hatred of those at whose mercy his lands and life might soon be, did
not choose to batter the city. The assailants, on the other hand, carried on their operations
with so little energy and so little vigilance that a constant communication was kept up between the Jacobites
within the citadel and the Jacobites without. Strange stories were told of the polite and facetious
messages which passed between the besieged and the besiegers. On one occasion Gordon sent to inform
the magistrates that he was going to fire a salute on account of
some news which he had received from Ireland, but that the good town
need not be alarmed, for that his guns would not be loaded with ball.

On another occasion, his drums beat a parley: the white flag was hung out: a conference took place;
and he gravely informed the enemy that all his cards had been thumbed to pieces, and begged them
to let him have a few more packs. His friends established a telegraph by means of which they
conversed with him across the lines of sentinels.

From a window in the top story of one of the loftiest of those gigantic houses, a few of which
still darken the High Street, a white cloth was hung out when all was well, and a black cloth
when things went ill. If it was necessary to give more detailed information, a board was held up
inscribed with capital letters so large that they could, by the help of a telescope, be read on
the ramparts of the castle. Agents laden with letters and fresh provisions managed, in various
disguises and by various shifts, to cross the sheet of water which then lay on the north of the
fortress and to clamber up the precipitous ascent. The peal of a musket from a particular half moon
was the signal which announced to the friends of the House of Stuart that another of their emissaries
had got safe up the rock. But at length the supplies were exhausted; and it was necessary to capitulate.
Favourable terms were readily granted: the garrison marched out;
and the keys were delivered up amidst the acclamations of a great
multitude of burghers, [349] But the government had far more acrimonious
and more pertinacious enemies in the Parliament House than in the
Castle.

When the Estates reassembled after their adjournment, the crown and sceptre of Scotland were displayed
with the wonted pomp in the hall as types of the absent sovereign. Hamilton rode in state from
Holyrood up the High Street as Lord High Commissioner; and Crawford took his seat as President.
Two Acts, one turning the Convention into a Parliament, the other recognising William and Mary
as King and Queen, were rapidly passed and touched with the sceptre; and then the conflict of factions
began, [350] It speedily appeared that the opposition which Montgomery had organized was irresistibly
strong. Though made up of many conflicting elements, Republicans, Whigs, Tories, zealous Presbyterians,
bigoted Prelatists, it acted for a time as one man, and drew to itself a multitude of those mean
and timid politicians who naturally gravitate towards the stronger party. The friends of the
government were few and disunited. Hamilton brought but half a heart to the discharge of his duties.
He had always been unstable; and he was now discontented.

He held indeed the highest place to which a subject could aspire. But he imagined that he had
only the show of power while others enjoyed the substance, and was not sorry to see those of
whom he was jealous thwarted and annoyed. He did not absolutely betray
the prince whom he represented: but he sometimes tampered with the
chiefs of the Club, and sometimes did sly in turns to those who were
joined with him in the service of the Crown.

His instructions directed him to give the royal assent to laws for the mitigating or removing of
numerous grievances, and particularly to a law restricting the power and reforming the constitution
of the Committee of Articles, and to a law establishing the Presbyterian Church Government, [351]
But it mattered not what his instructions were.

The chiefs of the Club were bent on finding a cause of quarrel. The propositions of the Government
touching the Lords of the Articles were contemptuously rejected.
Hamilton wrote to London for fresh directions; and soon a second
plan, which left little more than the name of the once despotic Committee,
was sent back.

But the second plan, though such as would have contented judicious and temperate reformers, shared
the fate of the first. Meanwhile the chiefs of the Club laid on the table a law which interdicted
the King from ever employing in any public office any person who had ever borne any part in
any proceeding inconsistent with the Claim of Right, or who had ever obstructed or retarded
any good design of the Estates. And his poor "seven acres of nursery-ground,"--not that, nor the miserable
patch of clay-farm, nor anything he tried to get a living by, would prosper with him; he had
a sore unequal battle all his days. But he stood to it valiantly; a wise, faithful, unconquerable
man;--swallowing down how many sore sufferings daily into silence; fighting like an unseen
Hero,--nobody publishing newspaper paragraphs about his nobleness; voting pieces of plate to
him! However, he was not lost; nothing is lost. Robert is there the outcome of him,--and indeed
of many generations of such as him.

This Burns appeared under every disadvantage: uninstructed, poor, born only to hard manual
toil; and writing, when it came to that, in a rustic special dialect, known only to a small
province of the country he lived in. Had he written, even what he did write, in the general
language of England, I doubt not he had already become universally recognized as being, or
capable to be, one of our greatest men. That he should have tempted so many to penetrate through
the rough husk of that dialect of his, is proof that there lay something far from common within
it. He has gained a certain recognition, and is continuing to do so over all quarters of our
wide Saxon world: wheresoever a Saxon dialect is spoken, it begins to be understood, by personal
inspection of this and the other, that one of the most considerable Saxon men of the Eighteenth
Century was an Ayrshire Peasant named Robert Burns. Yes, I will say, here too was a piece of
the right Saxon stuff: strong as the Harz-rock, rooted in the depths of the world;--rock, yet
with wells of living softness in it! A wild impetuous whirlwind of passion and faculty slumbered
quiet there; such heavenly melody dwelling in the heart of it. A noble rough genuineness; homely,
rustic, honest; true simplicity of strength; with its lightning-fire, with its soft dewy pity;--like
the old Norse Thor, the Peasant-god!

Burns's Brother Gilbert, a man of much sense and worth, has told me that Robert, in his young
days, in spite of their hardship, was usually the gayest of speech; a fellow of infinite frolic,
laughter, sense and heart; far pleasanter to hear there, stript cutting peats in the bog, or
such like, than he ever afterwards knew him. I can well believe it. This basis of mirth ("fond
gaillard," as old Marquis Mirabeau calls it), a primal element of sunshine and joyfulness,
coupled with his other deep and earnest qualities, is one of the most attractive characteristics
of Burns. A large fund of Hope dwells in him; spite of his tragical history, he is not a mourning
man. He shakes his sorrows gallantly aside; bounds forth victorious over them. It is as the
lion shaking "dew-drops from his mane;" as the swift-bounding horse, that laughs at the shaking
of the spear.--But indeed, Hope, Mirth, of the sort like Burns's, are they not the outcome
properly of warm generous affection,--such as is the beginning of all to every man?

You would think it strange if I called Burns the most gifted British soul we had in all that
century of his: and yet I believe the day is coming when there will be little danger in saying
so. His writings, all that he did under such obstructions, are only a poor fragment of him.
Professor Stewart remarked very justly, what indeed is true of all Poets good for much, that
his poetry was not any particular faculty; but the general result of a naturally vigorous original
mind expressing itself in that way. Burns's gifts, expressed in conversation, are the theme
of all that ever heard him. All kinds of gifts: from the gracefulest utterances of courtesy,
to the highest fire of passionate speech; loud floods of mirth, soft wailings of affection,
laconic emphasis, clear piercing insight; all was in him. Witty duchesses celebrate him as
a man whose speech "led them off their feet." This is beautiful: but still more beautiful that
which Mr. Lockhart has recorded, which I have more than once alluded to, How the waiters and
ostlers at inns would get out of bed, and come crowding to hear this man speak! Waiters and
ostlers:--they too were men, and here was a man! I have heard much about his speech; but one
of the best things I ever heard of it was, last year, from a venerable gentleman long familiar
with him. That it was speech distinguished by always having something in it. "He spoke rather
little than much," this old man told me; "sat rather silent in those early days, as in the
company of persons above him; and always when he did speak, it was to throw new light on the
matter." I know not why any one should ever speak otherwise!--But if we look at his general
force of soul, his healthy robustness every way, the rugged downrightness, penetration, generous
valor and manfulness that was in him,--where shall we readily find a better-gifted man?

Among the great men of the Eighteenth Century, I sometimes feel as if Burns might be found
to resemble Mirabeau more than any other. They differ widely in vesture; yet look at them intrinsically.
There is the same burly thick-necked strength of body as of soul;--built, in both cases, on
what the old Marquis calls a fond gaillard. By nature, by course of breeding, indeed by nation,
Mirabeau has much more of bluster; a noisy, forward, unresting man. But the characteristic
of Mirabeau too is veracity and sense, power of true insight, superiority of vision. The thing
that he says is worth remembering. It is a flash of insight into some object or other: so do
both these men speak. The same raging passions; capable too in both of manifesting themselves
as the tenderest noble affections. Wit; wild laughter, energy, directness, sincerity: these
were in both. The types of the two men are not dissimilar. Burns too could have governed, debated
in National Assemblies; politicized, as few could. Alas, the courage which had to exhibit itself
in capture of smuggling schooners in the Solway Frith; in keeping silence over so much, where
no good speech, but only inarticulate rage was possible: this might have bellowed forth Ushers
de Breze and the like; and made itself visible to all men, in managing of kingdoms, in ruling
of great ever-memorable epochs! But they said to him reprovingly, his Official Superiors said,
and wrote: "You are to work, not think." Of your thinking-faculty, the greatest in this land,
we have no need; you are to gauge beer there; for that only are you wanted. Very notable;--and
worth mentioning, though we know what is to be said and answered! As if Thought, Power of Thinking,
were not, at all times, in all places and situations of the world, precisely the thing that
was wanted. The fatal man, is he not always the unthinking man, the man who cannot think and
see; but only grope, and hallucinate, and missee the nature of the thing he works with? He
mis-sees it, mistakes it as we say; takes it for one thing, and it is another thing,--and leaves
him standing like a Futility there! He is the fatal man; unutterably fatal, put in the high
places of men.--"Why complain of this?" say some: "Strength is mournfully denied its arena;
that was true from of old." Doubtless; and the worse for the arena, answer I! Complaining profits
little; stating of the truth may profit. That a Europe, with its French Revolution just breaking
out, finds no need of a Burns except for gauging beer,--is a thing I, for one, cannot rejoice at--!

Once more we have to say here, that the chief quality of Burns is the sincerity of him. So
in his Poetry, so in his Life. The song he sings is not of fantasticalities; it is of a thing
felt, really there; the prime merit of this, as of all in him, and of his Life generally, is
truth. The Life of Burns is what we may call a great tragic sincerity. A sort of savage sincerity,--not
cruel, far from that; but wild, wrestling naked with the truth of things. In that sense, there
is something of the savage in all great men.

Hero-worship,--Odin, Burns? Well; these Men of Letters too were not without a kind of Hero-worship:
but what a strange condition has that got into now! The waiters and ostlers of Scotch inns,
prying about the door, eager to catch any word that fell from Burns, were doing unconscious
reverence to the Heroic. Johnson had his Boswell for worshipper. Rousseau had worshippers enough;
princes calling on him in his mean garret; the great, the beautiful doing reverence to the
poor moon-struck man. For himself a most portentous contradiction; the two ends of his life
not to be brought into harmony. He sits at the tables of grandees; and has to copy music for
his own living. He cannot even get his music copied: "By dint of dining out," says he, "I run
the risk of dying by starvation at home." For his worshippers too a most questionable thing!
If doing Hero-worship well or badly be the test of vital well-being or ill-being to a generation,
can we say that these generations are very first-rate?--And yet our heroic Men of Letters do
teach, govern, are kings, priests, or what you like to call them; intrinsically there is no
preventing it by any means whatever. The world has to obey him who thinks and sees in the world.
The world can alter the manner of that; can either have it as blessed continuous summer sunshine,
or as unblessed black thunder and tornado,--with unspeakable difference of profit for the world!
The manner of it is very alterable; the matter and fact of it is not alterable by any power
under the sky. Light; or, failing that, lightning: the world can take its choice. Not whether
we call an Odin god, prophet, priest, or what we call him; but whether we believe the word
he tells us: there it all lies. If it be a true word, we shall have to believe it; believing
it, we shall have to do it. What name or welcome we give him or it, is a point that concerns
ourselves mainly. It, the new Truth, new deeper revealing of the Secret of this Universe, is
verily of the nature of a message from on high; and must and will have itself obeyed.--

My last remark is on that notablest phasis of Burns's history,--his visit to Edinburgh. Often
it seems to me as if his demeanor there were the highest proof he gave of what a fund of worth
and genuine manhood was in him. If we think of it, few heavier burdens could be laid on the
strength of a man. So sudden; all common Lionism. which ruins innumerable men, was as nothing
to this. It is as if Napoleon had been made a King of, not gradually, but at once from the
Artillery Lieutenancy in the Regiment La Fere. Burns, still only in his twenty-seventh year,
is no longer even a ploughman; he is flying to the West Indies to escape disgrace and a jail.
This month he is a ruined peasant, his wages seven pounds a year, and these gone from him:
next month he is in the blaze of rank and beauty, handing down jewelled Duchesses to dinner;
the cynosure of all eyes! Adversity is sometimes hard upon a man; but for one man who can stand
prosperity, there are a hundred that will stand adversity. I admire much the way in which Burns
met all this. Perhaps no man one could point out, was ever so sorely tried, and so little forgot
himself. Tranquil, unastonished; not abashed, not inflated, neither awkwardness nor affectation:
he feels that he there is the man Robert Burns; that the "rank is but the guinea-stamp;" that
the celebrity is but the candle-light, which will show what man, not in the least make him
a better or other man! Alas, it may readily, unless he look to it, make him a worse man; a
wretched inflated wind-bag,--inflated till he burst, and become a dead lion; for whom, as some
one has said, "there is no resurrection of the body;" worse than a living dog!--Burns is admirable
here.

And yet, alas, as I have observed elsewhere, these Lion-hunters were the ruin and death of
Burns. It was they that rendered it impossible for him to live! They gathered round him in
his Farm; hindered his industry; no place was remote enough from them. The Sovereign, even if
he had the wish, had not the power, to bear himself evenly between his large and his small kingdom,
between the kingdom from which he drew an annual revenue of a million and a half and the kingdom
from which he drew an annual revenue of little more than sixty thousand pounds. He dared neither
to refuse his assent to any English law injurious to the trade of Scotland, nor to give his
assent to any Scotch law injurious to the trade of England.

The complaints of the Scotch, however, were so loud that Charles, in 1667, appointed Commissioners
to arrange the terms of a commercial treaty between the two British
kingdoms.

The conferences were soon broken off; and all that passed while they
continued proved that there was only one way in which Scotland could
obtain a share of the commercial prosperity which England at that
time enjoyed, [274] The Scotch must become one people with the English.

The Parliament which had hitherto sate at Edinburgh must be incorporated
with the Parliament which sate at Westminster.

The sacrifice could not but be painfully felt by a brave and haughty people, who had, during
twelve generations, regarded the southern domination with deadly aversion, and whose hearts still
swelled at the thought of the death of Wallace and of the triumphs of Bruce. There were doubtless
many punctilious patriots who would have strenuously opposed an union even if they could have foreseen
that the effect of an union would be to make Glasgow a greater city than Amsterdam, and to cover
the dreary Lothians with harvests and woods, neat farmhouses and stately mansions. But there
was also a large class which was not disposed to throw away great and substantial advantages in
order to preserve mere names and ceremonies; and the influence of
this class was such that, in the year 1670, the Scotch Parliament
made direct overtures to England, [275] The King undertook the office
of mediator; and negotiators were named on both sides; but nothing
was concluded.

The question, having slept during eighteen years, was suddenly revived by the Revolution. Different
classes, impelled by different motives, concurred on this point. With merchants, eager to
share in the advantages of the West Indian Trade, were joined active and aspiring politicians
who wished to exhibit their abilities in a more conspicuous theatre than the Scottish Parliament House,
and to collect riches from a more copious source than the Scottish treasury. The cry for union
was swelled by the voices of some artful Jacobites, who merely wished to cause discord and
delay, and who hoped to attain this end by mixing up with the difficult question which it was the especial
business of the Convention to settle another question more difficult still. It is probable
that some who disliked the ascetic habits and rigid discipline of the Presbyterians wished for an union
as the only mode of maintaining prelacy in the northern part of the island. In an united Parliament
the English members must greatly preponderate; and in England the bishops were held in high
honour by the great majority of the population. The Episcopal Church of Scotland, it was plain,
rested on a narrow basis, and would fall before the first attack. The Episcopal Church of Great
Britain might have a foundation broad and solid enough to withstand
all assaults.

Whether, in 1689, it would have been possible to effect a civil union
without a religious union may well be doubted.

But there can be no doubt that a religious union would have been one of the greatest calamities
that could have befallen either kingdom. The union accomplished in 1707 has indeed been a
great blessing both to England and to Scotland. But it has been a blessing because, in constituting
one State, it left two Churches. The political interest of the contracting parties was the same:
but the ecclesiastical dispute between them was one which admitted of no compromise. They could
therefore preserve harmony only by agreeing to differ. Had there been an amalgamation of the
hierarchies, there never would have been an amalgamation of the nations. Successive Mitchells would have
fired at successive Sharpes. Five generations of Claverhouses would have butchered five generations
of Camerons. Those marvellous improvements which have changed the face of Scotland would never
have been effected. Plains now rich with harvests would have remained barren moors. Waterfalls
which now turn the wheels of immense factories would have resounded in a wilderness. New Lanark
would still have been a sheepwalk, and Greenock a fishing hamlet. What little strength Scotland
could under such a system have possessed must, in an estimate of
the resources of Great Britain, have been, not added, but deducted.

So encumbered, our country never could have held, either in peace or in war, a place in the
first rank of nations. We are unfortunately not without the means of judging of the effect which
may be produced on the moral and physical state of a people by establishing, in the exclusive enjoyment
of riches and dignity a Church loved and reverenced only by the few, and regarded by the many
with religious and national aversion. One such Church is quite burden enough for the energies
of one empire.

But these things, which to us, who have been taught by a bitter experience, seem clear, were by
no means clear in 1689, even to very tolerant and enlightened politicians. In truth the English
Low Churchmen were, if possible, more anxious than the English High
Churchmen to preserve Episcopacy in Scotland.

It is a remarkable fact that Burnet, who was always accused of wishing to establish the Calvinistic
discipline in the south of the island, incurred great unpopularity among his own countrymen by
his efforts to uphold prelacy in the north. He was doubtless in error: but his error is to
be attributed to a cause which does him no discredit. His favourite object, an object unattainable
indeed, yet such as might well fascinate a large intellect and a benevolent heart, had long
been an honourable treaty between the Anglican Church and the Nonconformists. He thought it
most unfortunate that one opportunity of concluding such a treaty should have been lost at the
time of the Restoration. It seemed to him that another opportunity was afforded by the Revolution.
He and his friends were eagerly pushing forward Nottingham's Comprehension Bill, and were flattering
themselves with vain hopes of success. But they felt that there could hardly be a Comprehension
in one of the two British kingdoms, unless there were also a Comprehension in the other. Concession
must be purchased by concession. If the Presbyterian pertinaciously refused to listen to any
terms of compromise where he was strong, it would be almost impossible to obtain for him liberal
terms of compromise where he was weak. Bishops must therefore be allowed to keep their sees in
Scotland, in order that divines not ordained by Bishops might be allowed to hold rectories
and canonries in England.

Thus the cause of the Episcopalians in the north and the cause of the Presbyterians in the
south were bound up together in a manner which might well perplex even a skilful statesman.
It was happy for our country that the momentous question which excited
so many strong passions, and which presented itself in so many different
points of view, was to be decided by such a man as William.

He listened to Episcopalians, to Latitudinarians, to Presbyterians, to the Dean of Glasgow
who pleaded for the apostolical succession, to Burnet who represented the danger of alienating
the Anglican clergy, to Carstairs who hated prelacy with the hatred of a man whose thumbs were
deeply marked by the screws of prelatists. Surrounded by these eager advocates, William remained
calm and impartial. He was indeed eminently qualified by his situation as well as by his personal
qualities to be the umpire in that great contention. He was the King of a prelatical kingdom.
He was the Prime Minister of a presbyterian republic. His unwillingness to offend the Anglican
Church of which he was the head, and his unwillingness to offend the reformed Churches of the
Continent which regarded him as a champion divinely sent to protect them against the French
tyranny, balanced each other, and kept him from leaning unduly to either side. His conscience
was perfectly neutral. For it was his deliberate opinion that no form of ecclesiastical polity
was of divine institution.

He dissented equally from the school of Laud and from the school of Cameron, from the men who
held that there could not be a Christian Church without Bishops, and from the men who held that
there could not be a Christian Church without synods. Which form of government should be adopted
was in his judgment a question of mere expediency. He would probably have preferred a temper
between the two rival systems, a hierarchy in which the chief spiritual functionaries should
have been something more than moderators and something less than prelates. But he was far too
wise a man to think of settling such a matter according to his own personal tastes. He determined
therefore that, if there was on both sides a disposition to compromise, he would act as mediator.
But, if it should prove that the public mind of England and the public mind of Scotland had taken
the ply strongly in opposite directions, he would not attempt to force either nation into conformity
with the opinion of the other. He would suffer each to have its own church, and would content
himself with restraining both churches from persecuting nonconformists, and from encroaching on
the functions of the civil magistrate.

The language which he held to those Scottish Episcopalians who complained to him of their sufferings
and implored his protection was well weighed and well guarded, but clear and ingenuous. He wished,
he said, to preserve, if possible, the institution to which they were so much attached, and
to grant at the same time entire liberty of conscience to that party which could not be reconciled
to any deviation from the Presbyterian model. But the Bishops must take care that they did not,
by their own rashness and obstinacy, put it out of his power to be of any use to them. They must
also distinctly understand that he was resolved not to force on Scotland by the sword a form of
ecclesiastical government which she detested. If, therefore; it should be found that prelacy
could be maintained only by arms, he should yield to the general sentiment, and should merely
do his best to obtain for the Episcopalian minority permission to worship God in freedom and safety,
[276] It is not likely that, even if the Scottish Bishops had, as
William recommended, done all that meekness and prudence could do
to conciliate their countrymen, episcopacy could, under any modification,
have been maintained.

It was indeed asserted by writers of that generation, and has been repeated by writers of our
generation, that the Presbyterians were not, before the Revolution, the majority of the people of Scotland,
[277] But in this assertion there is an obvious fallacy. The effective strength of sects is not to
be ascertained merely by counting heads. An established church, a dominant church, a church which
has the exclusive possession of civil honours and emoluments, will always rank among its nominal
members multitudes who have no religion at all; multitudes who, though not destitute of religion,
attend little to theological disputes, and have no scruple about conforming to the mode of worship
which happens to be established; and multitudes who have scruples about conforming, but whose
scruples have yielded to worldly motives. On the other hand, every member of an oppressed church
is a man who has a very decided preference for that church. A person who, in the time of Diocletian,
joined in celebrating the Christian mysteries might reasonably be supposed to be a firm believer
in Christ. But it would be a very great mistake to imagine that one single Pontiff or Augur in
the Roman Senate was a firm believer in Jupiter. In Mary's reign, every body who attended the
secret meetings of the Protestants was a real Protestant: but hundreds of thousands went to mass who,
as appeared before she had been dead a month, were not real Roman Catholics. If, under the Kings
of the House of Stuart, when a Presbyterian was excluded from political power and from the learned professions,
was daily annoyed by informers, by tyrannical magistrates, by licentious dragoons, and was
in danger of being hanged if he heard a sermon in the open air, the
population of Scotland was not very unequally divided between Episcopalians
and Presbyterians, the rational inference is that more than nineteen
twentieths of those Scotchmen whose conscience was interested in the
matter were Presbyterians, and that not one Scotchman in twenty was
decidedly and on conviction an Episcopalian.

Against such odds the Bishops had but little chance; and whatever chance they had they made
haste to throw away; some of them because they sincerely believed that their allegiance was still
due to James; others probably because they apprehended that William would not have the power,
even if he had the will, to serve them, and that nothing but a counterrevolution in the State could avert
a revolution in the Church. As the new King of England could not be at Edinburgh during the sitting
of the Scottish Convention, a letter from him to the Estates was prepared with great skill. In this
document he professed warm attachment to the Protestant religion, but gave no opinion touching
those questions about which Protestants were divided. He had observed, he said, with great satisfaction
that many of the Scottish nobility and gentry with whom he had conferred in London were inclined to
an union of the two British kingdoms. He was sensible how much such an union would conduce to the happiness
of both; and he would do all in his power towards the accomplishing
of so good a work.

It was necessary that he should allow a large discretion to his confidential agents at Edinburgh. The
private instructions with which he furnished those persons could not be minute, but were highly
judicious. He charged them to ascertain to the best of their power the real sense of the Convention,
and to be guided by it.

They must remember that the first object was to settle the government. To that object every other
object, even the union, must be postponed. A treaty between two independent legislatures, distant
from each other several days'journey, must necessarily be a work of time; and the throne could
not safely remain vacant while the negotiations were pending.

It was therefore important that His Majesty's agents should be on their guard
against the arts of persons who, under pretence of promoting the
union, might really be contriving only to prolong the interregnum.

If the Convention should be bent on establishing the Presbyterian form of church government, William
desired that his friends would do all in their power to prevent the triumphant sect from retaliating
what it had suffered, [278] The person by whose advice William appears to have been at this time
chiefly guided as to Scotch politics was a Scotchman of great abilities and attainments, Sir James
Dalrymple of Stair, the founder of a family eminently distinguished at the bar, on the bench, in
the senate, in diplomacy, in arms, and in letters, but distinguished also by misfortunes and misdeeds
which have furnished poets and novelists with materials for the darkest and most heartrending
tales. Already Sir James had been in mourning for more than one strange and terrible death. One of
his sons had died by poison. One of his daughters had poniarded her bridegroom on the wedding night.
One of his grandsons had in boyish sport been slain by another. Savage libellers asserted, and some
of the superstitious vulgar believed, that calamities so portentous
were the consequences of some connection between the unhappy race
and the powers of darkness.

Sir James had a wry neck; and he was reproached with this misfortune as if it had been a crime,
and was told that it marked him out as a man doomed to the gallows. His wife, a woman of great
ability, art, and spirit, was popularly nicknamed the Witch of Endor. It was gravely said that she had
cast fearful spells on those whom she hated, and that she had been seen in the likeness of a cat
seated on the cloth of state by the side of the Lord High Commissioner. The man, however, over whose
roof so many curses appeared to hang did not, as far as we can now judge, fall short of that
very low standard of morality which was generally attained by politicians of his age and nation.
In force of mind and extent of knowledge he was superior to them all. In his youth he had borne
arms: he had then been a professor of philosophy: he had then studied
law, and had become, by general acknowledgment, the greatest jurist
that his country had produced.

In the days of the Protectorate, he had been a judge. After the Restoration, he had made his peace
with the royal family, had sate in the Privy Council, and had presided with unrivalled ability
in the Court of Session. He had doubtless borne a share in many unjustifiable acts; but there
were limits which he never passed. He had a wonderful power of giving to any proposition which it
suited him to maintain a plausible aspect of legality and even of justice; and this power he frequently
abused. But he was not, like many of those among whom he lived, impudently and unscrupulously servile.
Shame or conscience generally restrained him from committing any bad action for which his rare
ingenuity could not frame a specious defence; and he was seldom in his place at the council board
when any thing outrageously unjust or cruel was to be done. His moderation at length gave offence to the
Court. He was deprived of his high office, and found himself in so
disagreeable a situation that he retired to Holland.

There he employed himself in correcting the great work on jurisprudence which has preserved
his memory fresh down to our own time. In his banishment he tried to gain the favour of his fellow exiles,
who naturally regarded him with suspicion. He protested, and perhaps with truth, that his hands
were pure from the blood of the persecuted Covenanters. He made a high profession of religion,
prayed much, and observed weekly days of fasting and humiliation. He even consented, after much
hesitation, to assist with his advice and his credit the unfortunate enterprise of Argyle. When that enterprise
had failed, a prosecution was instituted at Edinburgh against Dalrymple; and his estates would
doubtless have been confiscated had they not been saved by an artifice which subsequently became common
among the politicians of Scotland. His eldest son and heir apparent, John, took the side of the
government, supported the dispensing power, declared against the Test, and accepted the place
of Lord Advocate, when Sir George Mackenzie, after holding out through ten years of foul drudgery,
at length showed signs of flagging. The services of the younger Dalrymple were rewarded by a
remission of the forfeiture which the offences of the elder had incurred.
Those services indeed were not to be despised.

For Sir John, though inferior to his father in depth and extent of legal learning, was no common
man. His knowledge was great and various: his parts were quick; and his eloquence was singularly
ready and graceful. To sanctity he made no pretensions. Indeed Episcopalians and Presbyterians
agreed in regarding him as little better than an atheist. During some months Sir John at Edinburgh
affected to condemn the disloyalty of his unhappy parent Sir James; and Sir James at Leyden told his
Puritan friends how deeply he lamented the wicked compliances of his unhappy child Sir John.
The Revolution came, and brought a large increase of wealth and honours to the House of Stair.
The son promptly changed sides, and cooperated ably and zealously with the father. Sir James
established himself in London for the purpose of giving advice to William on Scotch affairs. Sir John's
post was in the Parliament House at Edinburgh. He was not likely to find any equal among the debaters
there, and was prepared to exert all his powers against the dynasty which he had lately served, [279]
By the large party which was zealous for the Calvinistic church government John Dalrymple was
regarded with incurable distrust and dislike. As the briefest definition, one
might say, Forms which grow round a substance, if we rightly understand that, will correspond
to the real nature and purport of it, will be true, good; forms which are consciously put round
a substance, bad. I invite you to reflect on this. It distinguishes true from false in Ceremonial
Form, earnest solemnity from empty pageant, in all human things.

There must be a veracity, a natural spontaneity in forms. In the commonest meeting of men,
a person making, what we call, "set speeches," is not he an offence? In the mere drawing-room,
whatsoever courtesies you see to be grimaces, prompted by no spontaneous reality within, are
a thing you wish to get away from. But suppose now it were some matter of vital concernment,
some transcendent matter (as Divine Worship is), about which your whole soul, struck dumb with
its excess of feeling, knew not how to form itself into utterance at all, and preferred formless
silence to any utterance there possible,--what should we say of a man coming forward to represent
or utter it for you in the way of upholsterer-mummery? Such a man,--let him depart swiftly,
if he love himself! You have lost your only son; are mute, struck down, without even tears:
an importunate man importunately offers to celebrate Funeral Games for him in the manner of
the Greeks! Such mummery is not only not to be accepted,--it is hateful, unendurable. It is
what the old Prophets called "Idolatry," worshipping of hollow shows; what all earnest men
do and will reject. We can partly understand what those poor Puritans meant. Laud dedicating
that St. Catherine Creed's Church, in the manner we have it described; with his multiplied
ceremonial bowings, gesticulations, exclamations: surely it is rather the rigorous formal Pedant,
intent on his "College-rules," than the earnest Prophet intent on the essence of the matter!

Puritanism found such forms insupportable; trampled on such forms;--we have to excuse it for
saying, No form at all rather than such! It stood preaching in its bare pulpit, with nothing
but the Bible in its hand. Nay, a man preaching from his earnest soul into the earnest souls
of men: is not this virtually the essence of all Churches whatsoever? The nakedest, savagest
reality, I say, is preferable to any semblance, however dignified. Besides, it will clothe
itself with due semblance by and by, if it be real. No fear of that; actually no fear at all.
Given the living man, there will be found clothes for him; he will find himself clothes. But
the suit-of-clothes pretending that it is both clothes and man--! We cannot "fight the French"
by three hundred thousand red uniforms; there must be men in the inside of them! Semblance,
I assert, must actually not divorce itself from Reality. If Semblance do,--why then there must
be men found to rebel against Semblance, for it has become a lie! These two Antagonisms at
war here, in the case of Laud and the Puritans, are as old nearly as the world. They went to
fierce battle over England in that age; and fought out their confused controversy to a certain
length, with many results for all of us.

In the age which directly followed that of the Puritans, their cause or themselves were little
likely to have justice done them. Charles Second and his Rochesters were not the kind of men
you would set to judge what the worth or meaning of such men might have been. That there could
be any faith or truth in the life of a man, was what these poor Rochesters, and the age they
ushered in, had forgotten. Batteries were planted; trenches were opened; mines were sprung; in a few
days the besiegers were masters of the counterscarp; and all was ready for storming, when the
governor offered to capitulate. The garrison, twelve hundred strong, was suffered to retire
to Limerick; but the conquerors took possession of the stores, which were of considerable value.
Of all the Irish ports Kinsale was the best situated for intercourse with France. Here, therefore,
was a plenty unknown in any other part of Munster. At Limerick bread and wine were luxuries which
generals and privy councillors were not always able to procure.

But in the New Fort of Kinsale Marlborough found a thousand barrels of wheat and eighty pipes
of claret.

His success had been complete and rapid; and indeed, had it not been rapid, it would not have been
complete. His campaign, short as it was, had been long enough to allow time for the deadly work
which, in that age, the moist earth and air of Ireland seldom failed, in the autumnal season, to
perform on English soldiers. The malady which had thinned the ranks of Schomberg's army at
Dundalk, and which had compelled William to make a hasty retreat from the estuary of the Shannon,
had begun to appear at Kinsale. Quick and vigorous as Marlborough's operations were, he lost a much
greater number of men by disease than by the fire of the enemy. He presented himself at Kensington
only five weeks after he had sailed from Portsmouth, and was most graciously received. "No
officer living," said William, "who has seen so little service as my Lord Marlborough, is so
fit for great commands."

[757] In Scotland, as in Ireland, the aspect of things had, during
this memorable summer, changed greatly for the better.

That club of discontented Whigs which had, in the preceding year, ruled the Parliament, browbeaten
the ministers, refused the supplies and stopped the signet, had sunk under general contempt, and
had at length ceased to exist. There was harmony between the Sovereign and the Estates; and
the long contest between two forms of ecclesiastical government had been terminated in the only
way compatible with the peace and prosperity of the country.

This happy turn in affairs is to be chiefly ascribed to the errors of the perfidious, turbulent and
revengeful Montgomery. Some weeks after the close of that session during which he had exercised
a boundless authority over the Scottish Parliament, he went to London
with his two principal confederates, the Earl of Annandale and the
Lord Ross.

The three had an audience of William, and presented to him a manifesto setting forth what they
demanded for the public. They would very soon have changed their tone if he would have granted
what they demanded for themselves. But he resented their conduct deeply, and was determined not
to pay them for annoying him. The reception which he gave them convinced them that they had no
favour to expect. Montgomery's passions were fierce; his wants were pressing; he was miserably
poor; and, if he could not speedily force himself into a lucrative office, he would be in danger
of rotting in a gaol. Since his services were not likely to be bought by William, they must be
offered to James. A broker was easily found. Montgomery was an old acquaintance of Ferguson. The two
traitors soon understood each other. They were kindred spirits, differing widely in intellectual
power, but equally vain, restless, false and malevolent. Montgomery was introduced to Neville
Payne, one of the most adroit and resolute agents of the exiled family, Payne had been long well
known about town as a dabbler in poetry and politics. He had been an intimate friend of the
indiscreet and unfortunate Coleman, and had been committed to Newgate as an accomplice in the
Popish plot. His moral character had not stood high; but he soon had an opportunity of proving
that he possessed courage and fidelity worthy of a better cause than that of James and of a better
associate than Montgomery.

The negotiation speedily ended in a treaty of alliance, Payne confidently promised Montgomery,
not merely pardon, but riches, power and dignity. Montgomery as confidently undertook to induce
the Parliament of Scotland to recall the rightful King. Ross and Annandale readily agreed to
whatever their able and active colleague proposed. An adventurer, who was sometimes called Simpson
and sometimes Jones, who was perfectly willing to serve or to betray
any government for hire, and who received wages at once from Portland
and from Neville Payne, undertook to carry the offers of the Club
to James.

Montgomery and his two noble accomplices returned to Edinburgh, and there proceeded to form
a coalition with their old enemies, the defenders of prelacy and
of arbitrary power, [758] The Scottish opposition, strangely made
up of two factions, one zealous for bishops, the other zealous for
synods, one hostile to all liberty, the other impatient of all government,
flattered itself during a short time with hopes that the civil war
would break out in the Highlands with redoubled fury.

But
those hopes were disappointed. In the spring of 1690 an officer named Buchan arrived in Lochaber
from Ireland. He bore a commission which appointed him general in chief of all the forces which
were in arms for King James throughout the kingdom of Scotland. Cannon, who had, since the death of Dundee,
held the first post and had proved himself unfit for it, became second in command. Little however
was gained by the change. It was no easy matter to induce the Gaelic princes to renew the war. Indeed,
but for the influence and eloquence of Lochiel, not a sword would have been drawn for the House
of Stuart. He, with some difficulty, persuaded the chieftains, who had, in the preceding year,
fought at Killiecrankie, to come to a resolution that, before the end of the summer, they would
muster all their followers and march into the Lowlands. In the mean time twelve hundred mountaineers
of different tribes were placed under the orders of Buchan, who undertook, with this force, to keep
the English garrisons in constant alarm by feints and incursions, till the season for more important
operations should arrive. He accordingly marched into Strathspey. But all his plans were speedily
disconcerted by the boldness and dexterity of Sir Thomas Livingstone, who held Inverness for
King William. Livingstone, guided and assisted by the Grants, who were firmly attached to
the new government, came, with a strong body of cavalry and dragoons, by forced marches and through
arduous defiles, to the place where the Jacobites had taken up their quarters. He reached the camp
fires at dead of night. The first alarm was given by the rush of the horses over the terrified sentinels
into the midst Of the crowd of Celts who lay sleeping in their plaids. Buchan escaped bareheaded
and without his sword. Cannon ran away in his shirt. The conquerors lost not a man. Four hundred
Highlanders were killed or taken. The rest fled to their hills and mists, [759] This event put
an end to all thoughts of civil war. The gathering which had been planned for the summer never
took place. Lochiel, even if he had been willing, was not able to sustain any longer the falling
cause.

He had been laid on his bed by a mishap which would alone suffice
to show how little could be effected by a confederacy of the petty
kings of the mountains.

At a
consultation of the Jacobite leaders, a gentleman from the Lowlands spoke with severity of those sycophants
who had changed their religion to curry favour with King James. Glengarry was one of those
people who think it dignified to suppose that every body is always insulting them. He took it
into his head that some allusion to himself was meant. "I am as good a Protestant as you." he cried,
and added a word not to be patiently borne by a man of spirit. In a moment both swords were out.
Lochiel thrust himself between the combatants, and, while forcing them asunder, received a wound
which was at first believed to be mortal, [760] So effectually had the spirit of the disaffected
clans been cowed that Mackay marched unresisted from Perth into Lochaber, fixed his head quarters
at Inverlochy, and proceeded to execute his favourite design of erecting at that place a fortress
which might overawe the mutinous Camerons and Macdonalds. In a few days the walls were raised; the ditches
were sunk; the pallisades were fixed; demiculverins from a ship of
war were ranged along the parapets, and the general departed, leaving
an officer named Hill in command of a sufficient garrison.

Within the defences there was no want of oatmeal, red herrings, and beef; and there was rather a
superabundance of brandy. The new stronghold, which, hastily and rudely as it had been constructed, seemed
doubtless to the people of the neighbourhood the most stupendous work that power and science united had
ever produced, was named Fort William in honour of the King, [761] By this time the Scottish Parliament
had reassembled at Edinburgh. William had found it no easy matter to decide what course should
be taken with that capricious and unruly body. The English Commons had sometimes put him out of temper.
Yet they had granted him millions, and had never asked from him such concessions as had been
imperiously demanded by the Scottish legislature, which could give him little and had given
him nothing. The English statesmen with whom he had to deal did not generally stand or serve
to stand high in his esteem.

Yet few of them were so utterly false and shameless as the leading Scottish politicians. Hamilton
was, in morality and honour, rather above than below his fellows; and even Hamilton was fickle, false
and greedy. "I wish to heaven," William was once provoked into exclaiming, "that Scotland were
a thousand miles off, and that the Duke of Hamilton were King of it. Then I should be rid of
them both."

After much deliberation William determined to send Melville down to Edinburgh as Lord High Commissioner.
Melville was not a great statesman; he was not a great orator; he did not look or move like the representative
of royalty; his character was not of more than standard purity; and the standard of purity among Scottish
senators was not high; but he was by no means deficient in prudence or temper; and he succeeded,
on the whole, better than a man of much higher qualities might have done. During the first days
of the Session, the friends of the government desponded, and the
chiefs of the opposition were sanguine.

Montgomery's head, though by no means a weak one, had been turned by the triumphs of the preceding year.
He believed that his intrigues and his rhetoric had completely subjugated the Estates. It seemed
to him impossible that, having exercised a boundless empire in the Parliament House when the Jacobites
were absent, he should be defeated when they were present, and ready to support whatever he
proposed. He had not indeed found it easy to prevail on them to attend: for they could not take
their seats without taking the oaths.

A few of them had some slight scruple of conscience about foreswearing themselves; and many,
who did not know what a scruple of conscience meant, were apprehensive that they might offend the
rightful King by vowing fealty to the actual King. Some Lords, however, who were supposed to be in the
confidence of James, asserted that, to their knowledge, he wished his friends to perjure themselves;
and this assertion induced most of the Jacobites, with Balcarras at their head, to be guilty
of perfidy aggravated by impiety, [762] It soon appeared, however, that Montgomery's faction,
even with this reinforcement, was no longer a majority of the legislature. For every supporter
that he had gained he had lost two. He had committed an error which has more than once, in British history,
been fatal to great parliamentary leaders. He had imagined that, as soon as he chose to coalesce
with those to whom he had recently been opposed, all his followers would imitate his example. He
soon found that it was much easier to inflame animosities than to appease them. The great body
Of Whigs and Presbyterians shrank from the fellowship of the Jacobites. Some waverers were
purchased by the government; nor was the purchase expensive, for
a sum which would hardly be missed in the English Treasury was immense
in the estimation of the needy barons of the North, [763] Thus the
scale was turned; and, in the Scottish Parliaments of that age, the
turn of the scale was every thing; the tendency of majorities was
always to increase, the tendency of minorities to diminish.

The first question on which a vote was taken related to the election
for a borough.

The ministers carried their point by six voices, [764] In an instant every thing was changed;
the spell was broken; the Club, from being a bugbear, became a laughingstock; the timid and the
venal passed over in crowds from the weaker to the stronger side. It was in vain that the opposition
attempted to revive the disputes of the preceding year. The King had wisely authorised Melville to
give up the Committee of Articles. The Estates, on the other hand, showed no disposition to pass another Act
of Incapacitation, to censure the government for opening the Courts of justice, or to question
the right of the Sovereign to name the judges. An extraordinary supply was voted, small, according
to the notions of English financiers, but large for the means of Scotland.
The sum granted was a hundred and sixty-two thousand pounds sterling,
to be raised in the course of four years, [765] The Jacobites, who found
that they had forsworn themselves to no purpose, sate, bowed down
by shame and writhing with vexation, while Montgomery, who had deceived
himself and them, and who, in his rage, had utterly lost, not indeed
his parts and his fluency, but all decorum and selfcommand, scolded
like a waterman on the Thames, and was answered with equal asperity
and even more than equal ability by Sir John Dalrymple, [766] The
most important acts of this Session were those which fixed the ecclesiastical
constitution of Scotland.

By the Claim of Right it had been declared that the authority of Bishops was an insupportable grievance;
and William, by accepting the Crown, had bound himself not to uphold an institution condemned by the
very instrument on which his title to the Crown depended. But the Claim of Right had not defined
the form of Church government which was to be substituted for episcopacy; and, during the stormy
Session held in the summer of 1689, the violence of the Club had made legislation impossible.
During many months therefore every thing had been in confusion. One polity had been pulled down; and
no other polity had been set up. In the Western Lowlands, the beneficed
clergy had been so effectually rabbled, that scarcely one of them had
remained at his post.

In Berwickshire, the three Lothians and Stirlingshire, most of the curates had been removed by
the Privy Council for not obeying that vote of the Convention which had directed all ministers
of parishes, on pain of deprivation, to proclaim William and Mary
King and Queen of Scotland.

Thus, throughout a great part of the realm, there was no public worship except what was performed
by Presbyterian divines, who sometimes officiated in tents, and sometimes, without any legal right,
took possession of the churches. But there were large districts, especially on the north of the Tay,
where the people had no strong feeling against episcopacy; and there were many priests who
were not disposed to lose their manses, and stipends for the sake
of King James.

Hundreds of the old curates, therefore, having been neither hunted by the populace nor deposed
by the Council, still performed their spiritual functions. Every minister was, during this time
of transition, free to conduct the service and to administer the sacraments as he thought fit.
There was no controlling authority. The legislature had taken away the jurisdiction of Bishops,
and had not established the jurisdiction of Synods, [767] To put an end to this anarchy was
one of the first duties of the Parliament. Melville had, with the powerful assistance of Carstairs,
obtained, in spite of the remonstrances of English Tories, authority to assent to such ecclesiastical
arrangements as might satisfy the Scottish nation. One of the first laws which the Lord Commissioner
touched with the sceptre repealed the Act of Supremacy. He next gave
the royal assent to a law enacting that those Presbyterian divines
who had been pastors of parishes in the days of the Covenant, and
had, after the Restoration, been ejected for refusing to acknowledge
episcopal authority, should be restored.

The number of those Pastors had originally been about three hundred and fifty: but not more than sixty
were still living, [768] The Estates then proceeded to fix the national creed. The Confession
of Faith drawn up by the Assembly of Divines at Westminster, the Longer and Shorter Catechism,
and the Directory, were considered by every good Presbyterian as the standards of orthodoxy; and
it was hoped that the legislature would recognise them as such, [769] This hope, however, was
in part disappointed. The Confession was read at length, amidst much yawning, and adopted without
alteration. But, when it was proposed that the Catechisms and the Directory should be taken into consideration,
the ill humour of the audience broke forth into murmurs. For that love of long sermons which
was strong in the Scottish commonalty was not shared by the Scottish aristocracy.
The Parliament had already been listening during three hours to dry
theology, and was not inclined to hear any thing more about original
sin and election.

The Duke of Hamilton said that the Estates had already done all that was essential. They had given
their sanction to a digest of the great principles of Christianity. The rest might well be
left to the Church. The weary majority eagerly assented, in spite of the muttering of some
zealous Presbyterian ministers who had been admitted to hear the
debate, and who could sometimes hardly restrain themselves from taking
part in it, [770] The memorable law which fixed the ecclesiastical
constitution of Scotland was brought in by the Earl of Sutherland.

By this law the synodical polity was reestablished. The rule of the Church was entrusted to the
sixty ejected ministers who had just been restored, and to such other persons, whether ministers
or elders, as the Sixty should think fit to admit to a participation of power. The Sixty and their
nominees were authorised to visit all the parishes in the kingdom, and to turn out all ministers
who were deficient in abilities, scandalous in morals, or unsound in faith. Those parishes which
had, during the interregnum, been deserted by their pastors, or, in plain words, those parishes
of which the pastors had been rabbled, were declared vacant, [771] To the clause which reestablished
synodical government no serious opposition appears to have been made.
But three days were spent in discussing the question whether the
Sovereign should have power to convoke and to dissolve ecclesiastical
assemblies; and the point was at last left in dangerous ambiguity. Dupes indeed are many: but, of all dupes, there is none so
fatally situated as he who lives in undue terror of being duped. The world does exist; the
world has truth in it, or it would not exist! First recognize what is true, we shall then discern
what is false; and properly never till then.

"Know the men that are to be trusted:" alas, this is yet, in these days, very far from us.
The sincere alone can recognize sincerity. Not a Hero only is needed, but a world fit for him;
a world not of Valets;--the Hero comes almost in vain to it otherwise! Yes, it is far from
us: but it must come; thank God, it is visibly coming. Till it do come, what have we? Ballot-boxes,
suffrages, French Revolutions:--if we are as Valets, and do not know the Hero when we see him,
what good are all these? A heroic Cromwell comes; and for a hundred and fifty years he cannot
have a vote from us. Why, the insincere, unbelieving world is the natural property of the Quack,
and of the Father of quacks and quackeries! Misery, confusion, unveracity are alone possible
there. By ballot-boxes we alter the figure of our Quack; but the substance of him continues.
The Valet-World has to be governed by the Sham-Hero, by the King merely dressed in King-gear.
It is his; he is its! In brief, one of two things: We shall either learn to know a Hero, a
true Governor and Captain, somewhat better, when we see him; or else go on to be forever governed
by the Unheroic;--had we ballot-boxes clattering at every street-corner, there were no remedy
in these.

Poor Cromwell,--great Cromwell! The inarticulate Prophet; Prophet who could not speak. Rude,
confused, struggling to utter himself, with his savage depth, with his wild sincerity; and
he looked so strange, among the elegant Euphemisms, dainty little Falklands, didactic Chillingworths,
diplomatic Clarendons! Consider him. An outer hull of chaotic confusion, visions of the Devil,
nervous dreams, almost semi-madness; and yet such a clear determinate man's-energy working
in the heart of that. A kind of chaotic man. The ray as of pure starlight and fire, working
in such an element of boundless hypochondria, unformed black of darkness! And yet withal this
hypochondria, what was it but the very greatness of the man? The depth and tenderness of his
wild affections: the quantity of sympathy he had with things,--the quantity of insight he would
yet get into the heart of things, the mastery he would yet get over things: this was his hypochondria.
The man's misery, as man's misery always does, came of his greatness. Samuel Johnson too is
that kind of man. Sorrow-stricken, half-distracted; the wide element of mournful black enveloping
him,--wide as the world. It is the character of a prophetic man; a man with his whole soul
seeing, and struggling to see.

On this ground, too, I explain to myself Cromwell's reputed confusion of speech. To himself
the internal meaning was sun-clear; but the material with which he was to clothe it in utterance
was not there. He had lived silent; a great unnamed sea of Thought round him all his days;
and in his way of life little call to attempt naming or uttering that. With his sharp power
of vision, resolute power of action, I doubt not he could have learned to write Books withal,
and speak fluently enough;--he did harder things than writing of Books. This kind of man is
precisely he who is fit for doing manfully all things you will set him on doing. Intellect
is not speaking and logicizing; it is seeing and ascertaining. Virtue, Virtues, manhood, herohood,
is not fair-spoken immaculate regularity; it is first of all, what the Germans well name it,
Tugend (Taugend, dow-ing or Dough-tiness), Courage and the Faculty to do. This basis of the
matter Cromwell had in him.

One understands moreover how, though he could not speak in Parliament, he might preach, rhapsodic
preaching; above all, how he might be great in extempore prayer. These are the free outpouring
utterances of what is in the heart: method is not required in them; warmth, depth, sincerity
are all that is required. Cromwell's habit of prayer is a notable feature of him. All his great
enterprises were commenced with prayer. In dark inextricable-looking difficulties, his Officers
and he used to assemble, and pray alternately, for hours, for days, till some definite resolution
rose among them, some "door of hope," as they would name it, disclosed itself. Consider that.
In tears, in fervent prayers, and cries to the great God, to have pity on them, to make His
light shine before them. They, armed Soldiers of Christ, as they felt themselves to be; a little
band of Christian Brothers, who had drawn the sword against a great black devouring world not
Christian, but Mammonish, Devilish,--they cried to God in their straits, in their extreme need,
not to forsake the Cause that was His. The light which now rose upon them,--how could a human
soul, by any means at all, get better light? Was not the purpose so formed like to be precisely
the best, wisest, the one to be followed without hesitation any more? To them it was as the
shining of Heaven's own Splendor in the waste-howling darkness; the Pillar of Fire by night,
that was to guide them on their desolate perilous way. Was it not such? Can a man's soul, to
this hour, get guidance by any other method than intrinsically by that same,--devout prostration
of the earnest struggling soul before the Highest, the Giver of all Light; be such prayer a
spoken, articulate, or be it a voiceless, inarticulate one? There is no other method. "Hypocrisy"?
One begins to be weary of all that. They who call it so, have no right to speak on such matters.
They never formed a purpose, what one can call a purpose. They went about balancing expediencies,
plausibilities; gathering votes, advices; they never were alone with the truth of a thing at
all.--Cromwell's prayers were likely to be "eloquent," and much more than that. His was the
heart of a man who could pray.

But indeed his actual Speeches, I apprehend, were not nearly so ineloquent, incondite, as they
look. We find he was, what all speakers aim to be, an impressive speaker, even in Parliament;
one who, from the first, had weight. With that rude passionate voice of his, he was always
understood to mean something, and men wished to know what. He disregarded eloquence, nay despised
and disliked it; spoke always without premeditation of the words he was to use. The Reporters,
too, in those days seem to have been singularly candid; and to have given the Printer precisely
what they found on their own note-paper. And withal, what a strange proof is it of Cromwell's
being the premeditative ever-calculating hypocrite, acting a play before the world, That to
the last he took no more charge of his Speeches! How came he not to study his words a little,
before flinging them out to the public? If the words were true words, they could be left to
shift for themselves.

But with regard to Cromwell's "lying," we will make one remark. This, I suppose, or something
like this, to have been the nature of it. All parties found themselves deceived in him; each
party understood him to be meaning this, heard him even say so, and behold he turns out to
have been meaning that! He was, cry they, the chief of liars. But now, intrinsically, is not
all this the inevitable fortune, not of a false man in such times, but simply of a superior
man? Such a man must have reticences in him. If he walk wearing his heart upon his sleeve for
daws to peck at, his journey will not extend far! There is no use for any man's taking up his
abode in a house built of glass. A man always is to be himself the judge how much of his mind
he will show to other men; even to those he would have work along with him. There are impertinent
inquiries made: your rule is, to leave the inquirer uninformed on that matter; not, if you
can help it, misinformed, but precisely as dark as he was! This, could one hit the right phrase
of response, is what the wise and faithful man would aim to answer in such a case.

Cromwell, no doubt of it, spoke often in the dialect of small subaltern parties; uttered to
them a part of his mind. Each little party thought him all its own. Hence their rage, one and
all, to find him not of their party, but of his own party. Was it his blame? At all seasons
of his history he must have felt, among such people, how, if he explained to them the deeper
insight he had, they must either have shuddered aghast at it, or believing it, their own little
compact hypothesis must have gone wholly to wreck. They could not have worked in his province
any more; nay perhaps they could not now have worked in their own province. It is the inevitable
position of a great man among small men. Small men, most active, useful, are to be seen everywhere,
whose whole activity depends on some conviction which to you is palpably a limited one; imperfect,
what we call an error. But would it be a kindness always, is it a duty always or often, to
disturb them in that? Many a man, doing loud work in the world, stands only on some thin traditionality,
conventionality; to him indubitable, to you incredible: break that beneath him, he sinks to
endless depths! "I might have my hand full of truth," said Fontenelle, "and open only my little
finger."

And if this be the fact even in matters of doctrine, how much more in all departments of practice!
He that cannot withal keep his mind to himself cannot practice any considerable thing whatever.
And we call it "dissimulation," all this? What would you think of calling the general of an
army a dissembler because he did not tell every corporal and private soldier, who pleased to
put the question, what his thoughts were about everything?--Cromwell, I should rather say,
managed all this in a manner we must admire for its perfection. An endless vortex of such questioning
"corporals" rolled confusedly round him through his whole course; whom he did answer. It must
have been as a great true-seeing man that he managed this too. Not one proved falsehood, as
I said; not one! Of what man that ever wound himself through such a coil of things will you
say so much?--

But in fact there are two errors, widely prevalent, which pervert to the very basis our judgments
formed about such men as Cromwell; about their "ambition," "falsity," and such like. The first
is what I might call substituting the goal of their career for the course and starting-point
of it. The vulgar Historian of a Cromwell fancies that he had determined on being Protector
of England, at the time when he was ploughing the marsh lands of Cambridgeshire. His career
lay all mapped out: a program of the whole drama; which he then step by step dramatically unfolded,
with all manner of cunning, deceptive dramaturgy, as he went on,--the hollow, scheming [Gr.]
Upokrites, or Play-actor, that he was! One would say, that it is the reply of harsh and stern characters
to sensitive hearts; that it is the reality of life which withers and repels the desires of
generous souls. When the sweet choristers resume their strain, hope revives; but when the verse
of recitative begins, a cold sensation seizes upon the hearer, not caused by terror, but by
a repression of enthusiasm. At length, the last piece, more noble and affecting than all the
others, leaves a pure and sweet impression upon the soul: may God vouchsafe that same impression
to us before we die.

The torches are extinguished; night advances, and the figures of the prophets and the sybils
appear like phantoms enveloped in twilight. The silence is profound; a word spoken would be
insupportable in the then state of the soul, when all is intimate and internal; as soon as the
last sound expires, all depart slowly and without the least noise; each one seems to dread the return
to the vulgar interests of the world.

Corinne followed the procession, which repaired to the temple of St Peter, then lighted only
by an illuminated cross. This sign of grief, alone and shining in the august obscurity of this
immense edifice, is the most beautiful image of Christianity in the
midst of the darkness of life.

A pale and distant light is cast on the statues which adorn the tombs. The living, who are perceived
in crowds beneath these vaults, seem like pigmies, compared with the images of the dead. There
is around the cross, a space which it lights up, where the Pope clad in white is seen prostrate,
with all the cardinals ranged behind him. They remain there for half an hour in the most profound
silence, and it is impossible not to be moved at this spectacle. We know not the subject of their
prayers; we hear not their secret groanings; but they are old, they precede us in the journey
to the tomb. When we in our turn pass into that terrible advance guard, may God by his grace so
ennoble our age, that the decline of life may be the first days of
immortality!

Corinne, also,-- the young and beautiful Corinne,-- was kneeling behind the train of priests,
and the soft light reflected on her countenance, gave it a pale hue, without diminishing the
lustre of her eyes. Oswald contemplated her as a beautiful picture-- a being that inspired adoration.
When her prayer was concluded she arose.

Lord Nelville dared not yet approach her, respecting the religious meditation in which he thought
her plunged; but she came to him first with a transport of happiness; and this sentiment pervading
all her actions, she received with a most lively gaiety, all those who accosted her in St Peter's,
which had become, all at once, a great public promenade, and a rendezvous to discuss topics of
business or pleasure.

Oswald was astonished at this mobility which caused such opposite impressions to succeed each
other; and though the gaiety of Corinne gave him pleasure, he was surprised to find in her no
trace of the emotions of the day. He did not conceive how, upon so solemn, a day, they could
permit this fine church to be converted into a Roman café, where people met for pleasure;
and beholding Corinne in the midst of her circle, talking with so much vivacity, and not thinking
on the objects that surrounded her, he conceived a sentiment of mistrust as to the levity of
which she might be capable. She instantly perceived it, and quitting her company abruptly,
she took the arm of Oswald to walk with him in the church, saying, "I have never held any conversation
with you upon my religious sentiments-- permit me to speak a little upon that subject now; perhaps
I shall be able to dissipate those clouds which I perceive rising in your mind."
Chapter v. "The difference of our religions, my dear Oswald," continued
Corinne, "is the cause of that secret censure which you cannot conceal
from me.

Yours is serious and rigid-- ours, cheerful and tender. It is
generally believed that Catholicism is more rigorous than Protestantism;
and that may be true in a country where a struggle has subsisted between
the two religions; but we have no religious dissensions in Italy, and you have
experienced much of them in England. Old Samuel Johnson,
the greatest soul in England in his day, was not ambitious. "Corsica Boswell" flaunted at public
shows with printed ribbons round his hat; but the great old Samuel stayed at home. The world-wide
soul wrapt up in its thoughts, in its sorrows;--what could paradings, and ribbons in the hat,
do for it?

Ah yes, I will say again: The great silent men! Looking round on the noisy inanity of the world,
words with little meaning, actions with little worth, one loves to reflect on the great Empire
of Silence. The noble silent men, scattered here and there, each in his department; silently
thinking, silently working; whom no Morning Newspaper makes mention of! They are the salt of
the Earth. A country that has none or few of these is in a bad way. Like a forest which had
no roots; which had all turned into leaves and boughs;--which must soon wither and be no forest.
Woe for us if we had nothing but what we can show, or speak. Silence, the great Empire of Silence:
higher than the stars; deeper than the Kingdoms of Death! It alone is great; all else is small.--I
hope we English will long maintain our grand talent pour le silence. Let others that cannot
do without standing on barrel-heads, to spout, and be seen of all the market-place, cultivate
speech exclusively,--become a most green forest without roots! Solomon says, There is a time
to speak; but also a time to keep silence. Of some great silent Samuel, not urged to writing,
as old Samuel Johnson says he was, by want of money, and nothing other, one might ask, "Why
do not you too get up and speak; promulgate your system, found your sect?" "Truly," he will
answer, "I am continent of my thought hitherto; happily I have yet had the ability to keep
it in me, no compulsion strong enough to speak it. My 'system' is not for promulgation first
of all; it is for serving myself to live by. That is the great purpose of it to me. And then
the 'honor'? In his dispatches, Covilham described the several ports which he had visited in India;
explained the policy and disposition of the several princes; and
pointed out the situation and riches of the gold mines of Sofala;
exhorting the king to persist, unremittingly and vigorously, in prosecuting
the discovery of the passage to India around the southern extremity
of Africa, which he asserted to be attended with little danger, and
affirmed that the cape was well known in India.

He is said to have accompanied his letters and descriptions with a chart, in which the cape
and all the cities on the coast of Africa were exactly represented, which he had received
in India from a Moor. Covilham was afterwards seen by, and intimately acquainted with Francesco
Alvarez, his historian, who was sent on an embassy into Abyssinia by Emmanuel king of Portugal.
Alvarez, who appears to have been a priest, calls Covilham his spiritual son, and says that he
had been thirty-three years in great credit with Prette Janni, so he calls the king of Abyssinia,
and all the court, during all which time he had never confessed his sins, except to GOD in secret,
because the priests of that country were not in use to keep secret what had been committed to
them in confession. This would protract the residence of Covilham in Abyssinia, at least to
the year 1521, or 1522; but how long he may have lived there afterwards
does not appear.

[1] Clarke, i. 384. Purchas, II. 1091.

[2] El Tor is on the Arabian coast of the Red Sea, near the mouth of the Bahr Assuez, or Gulf
of Suez, in lat. 28° 10'N. long.

33° 36'E.-- E. CHAPTER VI. HISTORY OF THE DISCOVERY AND CONQUEST
OF INDIA BY THE PORTUGUESE, BETWEEN THE YEARS 1497 AND 1525: FROM
THE ORIGINAL PORTUGUESE OF HERMAN LOPES DE CASTANEDA.

INTRODUCTION. Although, in strict conformity to chronological arrangement, the discovery of America
by COLUMBUS in 1492, ought to precede our account of the discovery
of the maritime route from Europe to India by the Portuguese, which
did not take place until the year 1498; it yet appears more regular
to follow out the series of Portuguese navigation and discovery to
its full completion, than to break down that original and vast enterprise
into fragments.

We might indeed have stopt with the first voyage of De Gama, which
effected the discovery of India: But as the contents of this Chapter
consists of what may be considered an authentic original record, and
carries on the operations of the Portuguese in India to the year 1525,
it seemed preferable to retain this curious original history entire.

It is obvious that Castaneda must have used the original journals of De Gama, and other early Portuguese
commanders, or of some persons engaged in the voyages and transactions; as he often forgets
the historical language, and uses the familiar diction of a person actually engaged, as will appear
in many passages of this Chapter. The title of this original document, now first offered to
the public in modern English, is "The first Booke of the Historie of the Discoverie and Conquest of
the East Indias by the Portingals, in the time of King Don John, the second of that name. By
Hernan Lopes de Castaneda; translated into English by Nicholas Lichefield, and dedicated to
Sir Fraunces Drake. Imprinted at London by Thomas East, 1582." Though the transactions here
recorded are limited in the title to the reign of John II. they occupied the reigns of his immediate
successor Emmanuel, or Manuel, and of John III. Castanedas history was printed in black letter
at Coimbra, in eight volumes folio, in the years 1552, 1553, and 1554, and is now exceedingly
scarce. In 1553, a translation of the first book was made into French
by Nicolas de Grouchy, and published at Paris in quarto.

An Italian translation was published at Venice in two volumes quarto, by Alfonso Uloa, in
1578 [1]. That into English by Lichefield, employed on the present
occasion, is in small quarto and black-letter. The voyage of De Gama
is related by De Barros in his work, entitled Da Asia, and has been
described by Osorius, Ramusio, Maffei, and de Faria.

Purchas gives a brief account of it, I. ii. 26. The beautiful poem of the Lusiad by Camoens,
the Portuguese Homer, is dedicated to the celebration of this important
transaction, and is well known through an elegant translation into
English by Mickle.

In the present chapter, the curious and rare work of Castaneda, so far as his first book extends, is
given entire; and the only freedom employed in this version, besides changing the English of 229
years ago into the modern and more intelligible language, has Been to prune a quaint verbosity,
mistaken by Lichefield for rhetorical eloquence. The dedication of the early translator to
the celebrated Sir Francis Drake, is preserved in its original dress, as a sufficient specimen of the
language of England at the close of the sixteenth century. DEDICATION. To the right Worshipfull
Sir Fraunces Drake, Knight, N, L, G, wisheth all prosperitie. They haue an auncient custome
in Persia (the which is also observed throughout all Asia) that none will enterprise to visit
the king, noble man, or perticularly any other person of countenance, but he carieth with him
some thing to present him with all worthy of thanks, the which is not onely done in token of
great humilitie& obedience, but also of a zealous loue& friendly affection to their superiours& welwillers.
So I (right worshipfull following this Persian president) hauing taking vpon me this simple translation
out of the Portingale tongue, into our English language, am bold to present& dedicate the same
vnto you as a signification of my entire good will. The history conteineth the discouerie and
conquest of the East Indias, made by sundry worthy captaines of the Portengales, in the time of King
Don Manuel,& of the King Don John, the second of that name, with
the description, not onely of the country, but also of every harbour
apperteining to every place whervnto they came,& of the great resistance
they found in the same, by reson wherof there was sundry great battles
many times fought, and likewise of the commodities& riches that euery
of these places doth yeeld.

And for that I know your worship, with great peril and daunger haue
past these monstrous and bottomlesse sees, am therfore the more encouraged
to desire& pray your worships patronage& defence therof, requesting
you with all to pardon those imperfections, which I acknowledge to
be very many,& so much the more, by reason of my long& many years
continuance in foreine countries.

Howbeit, I hope to have truly observed the literal sence& full effect
of the history, as the author setteth it forth, which if it may please
you to peruse& accept in good part, I shall be greatly emboldened
to proceede& publish also the second& third booke, which I am assured
will neither be vnpleasant nor vnprofitable to the readers.

Thus alwaies wishing your good worship such prosperous continuance and like fortunate successe as
GOD hath hitherto sent you in your dangerous trauaile& affayres, and as maye euery waye content
your owne heartes desire, doe euen so take my leaue. From London the fifth of March. 1582. Your
worships alwayes to commaund, Nicholas Lichefild. [1] Bibl. des Voyages,
V. 2.***** DEDICATION BY CASTANEDA. To The most high and mighty Prince,
John III.

King of Portugal and Algarve,& c. It hath seemed to me, most high and mighty prince, our dread
king and sovereign, so important and weighty a matter to undertake a history of the great and valiant
actions which our Portuguese have performed in the discovery and conquest of India, that I often thought
to relinquish the attempt. But as these noble deeds were principally undertaken and performed
for the glory of Almighty God, the conversion of the barbarous nations to the Christian faith,
and the great honour of your highness; and as, by the power and mercy of the Omnipotent, such
fortunate success has been granted to these famous enterprises, I have been encouraged to proceed.
I therefore trust entirely to the aid and comfort of the divine goodness in publishing this work,
giving the glory thereof to God alone, and its earthly praise to your excellent highness,
and the king Don Manuel your father, of famous and happy memory. Although these glorious deeds
are well known and spread abroad over the world, they yet cannot be sufficiently made manifest unless
set forth in writing, by means of which their memory may endure for ever, and remain always as
if present to the readers; as history hath perpetuated the actions of the Greeks and Romans which
are of such high antiquity. Of other transactions, nothing inferior to theirs, perhaps even far
greater, which have been performed by other nations, there is little or no memory, because these do
not remain recorded by history: Such are those of the Assyrians, Medes and Persians; of the Africans
against the Romans; of the Suevi against Julius Caesar; of the Spaniards in recovering their
country from the Moors; and principally of these invincible and pious kings of Portugal, your
glorious ancestors, Don Alonso Henriques, Don Sancho his son, and
Don Alonso, who acquired the kingdoms of Portugal and Algarve by great
and wonderful deeds of arms.

Of all which, there hardly remaineth any memory, for want of having
been duly recorded by writing.

So likewise of those actions which have been performed in India,
only as it were of yesterday, the exact memory of them is confined
to four persons; and if they were to die, all remembrance of these
transactions must have ended to their great dishonour.

Considering these things, I resolved to record these noble deeds
which the subjects of your highness have performed in the discovery
and conquest of India, which have never been surpassed in valour,
or even equalled, in any age or country.

Leaving all mention of the conquests of Cyrus and other barbarians,
and even taking into the account the deeds of Alexander, so famous
over all the world, which are as nothing compared to what has been
performed since India became frequented by the Portuguese, no more
than a dead lion can be likened to one alive.

The conquests of Alexander were all by land, and achieved by himself
in person, against nations who were little trained or accustomed to
feats of arms.

But the Portuguese conquest of India was performed by the captains
of your highness, after a voyage by sea of a year and eight months,
going almost around the globe, from the utmost limits of the west
through the vast and bottomless ocean, seeing only the heaven and
the water; a thing never before attempted by man, and hardly even
imagined.

After surmounting hunger and thirst, and daily exposure to furious storms, and a thousand dangers
in the voyage; they had to encounter great and cruel battles on their arrival in India; not against
men armed only with bows and spears, as in the time of Alexander, but with people of stout and
tried courage and experienced in war, having ordinance and fire-workers more numerous even than the Portuguese,
besides many other excellent weapons. The power of these men, against whom the subjects of your highness
had to contend, was infinitely greater than that of King Porus, against whom Alexander had to encounter;
yet the Portuguese, though few in number, uniformly had the victory, and never retired from
the war as was done by Alexander. Leaving the actions of the Greeks, and considering what was performed
by the Romans with their innumerable armies and vast fleets, which seemed to cover the face of the sea,
and by means of which they thought to have conquered the whole earth.

Yet they never adventured beyond the Red Sea; neither was the greatest of their famous victories
comparable to those battles which have been fought by our men in India;
in which, most invincible prince, the great prosperity of your father
and you is well known. As, without moving from your palace, discoveries
and conquests have been achieved by your captains, more extensive
than ever were discovered or conquered by any prince in person.

There never was any conquest, either by the Barbarians, Greeks, or Romans, of any thing like equal difficulty
with this of India; neither any kings or captains of any of these nations equal in valour and conduct
to those of your father and yourself, as will manifestly appear from the whole tenor of the
following history. The great actions which the subjects of your highness have worthily accomplished,
must be deemed to have been permitted and appointed by the providence
of God; that so those barbarians, with their vain idols, and the false
sectaries of Mahomet, might be brought into the catholic faith, as
at this time great numbers have been added to the Christian religion.

For, since these great exploits, your highness, as a most godly and Christian prince, hath taken especial
care, and hath given command that the Christian doctrine of the brotherhood of the company of
Jesus should be taught in India, which you ordered to be brought from Rome, and have always supported
at your expence. Thus likewise, you have erected, and founded the noble and sumptuous university
of Coimbra, to augment the honour and reputation of your kingdom; where, besides many divines
and colleges of poor begging friars to expound the evangelical law, there are temporal men also to
instruct those of your subjects that defend and enlarge the commonwealth by deeds of arms, and
those who adorn the same by means of learning. All these heroic virtues of your highness being
well known to me, have encouraged me to publish this work and others, which have some taste of learning,
that they may remain a perpetual memorial of the noble deeds of so many gentlemen and knights
of Portugal, your subjects. In this I have been much forwarded by having been in India, where
I sojourned with my father, who was sent into that country by your
highness as a judge.

I spent all my youth in the pursuit of learning, and in the study of ancient historians. Being
in India, I set myself with all diligence to learn and understand all that had been done in regard
to the discovery and conquest of that country by the Portuguese, with the intention of making
the same known and common to all men. By my inquiries, and through the information derived from sundry
gentlemen and captains, both such as were actually present in the various transactions, and employed
in their execution, as by others who were engaged in counselling and preparing the means of their
being performed, I have derived much authentic information; as, likewise, by the perusal of
many letters and memorials, which were written by men of credit and reputation, all of which I have
examined as evidences of the authenticity of my work, both while in India and since my return
into Portugal. As the matters I meant to write of were many, so it became necessary for me to acquire
information from many sources; and as those whom I examined were upon oath, it is lawful for
me to bring them forward as sure evidence.

In these researches some of these men had to be sought after in almost every part of Portugal;
and being separated in sundry places, my inquiries have occasioned great travel of my person,
and much expence; to which I have devoted the greater part of my life, and have constituted
the preparation for this work my sole recreation. Since my residence in the university of Coimbra,
in the service of your highness, I have joined together all these
informations; which, together with the duties of my office, have
caused much toil both of body and mind.

Having now accomplished the composition of this book and others, I most humbly offer the same to your
highness; and, after many and most fortunate years of governing, I pray God to take you from the transitory
seignory of this earth, and to receive you into the perpetual joys of Heaven. Hernan Lopes
de Castaneda. SECTION I. Previous steps taken by the King of Portugal, John II. preparatory to
the Discovery of India. Don John, the second of that name, and thirteenth king of Portugal, considering
that all spices, drugs, precious stones, and other riches which came
from Venice, were brought out of the east, and being a prince of great
penetration, and high emprize, he was greatly desirous to enlarge
his kingdom, and to propagate the knowledge of the Christian faith
to distant regions.

He resolved, therefore, to discover the way by sea to the country whence such prodigious riches
were brought, that his subjects might thereby be enriched, and that his kingdom might acquire
those commodities which had hitherto been brought by way of Venice. Puritan England might accept it or not; but Puritan England was, in real
truth, saved from suicide thereby!--I believe the Puritan People did, in an inarticulate, grumbling,
yet on the whole grateful and real way, accept this anomalous act of Oliver's; at least, he
and they together made it good, and always better to the last. But in their Parliamentary articulate
way, they had their difficulties, and never knew fully what to say to it--!

Oliver's second Parliament, properly his first regular Parliament, chosen by the rule laid
down in the Instrument of Government, did assemble, and worked;--but got, before long, into
bottomless questions as to the Protector's right, as to "usurpation," and so forth; and had
at the earliest legal day to be dismissed. Cromwell's concluding Speech to these men is a remarkable
one. So likewise to his third Parliament, in similar rebuke for their pedantries and obstinacies.
Most rude, chaotic, all these Speeches are; but most earnest-looking. You would say, it was
a sincere helpless man; not used to speak the great inorganic thought of him, but to act it
rather! A helplessness of utterance, in such bursting fulness of meaning. He talks much about
"births of Providence:" All these changes, so many victories and events, were not forethoughts,
and theatrical contrivances of men, of me or of men; it is blind blasphemers that will persist
in calling them so! He insists with a heavy sulphurous wrathful emphasis on this. As he well
might. As if a Cromwell in that dark huge game he had been playing, the world wholly thrown
into chaos round him, had foreseen it all, and played it all off like a precontrived puppet-show
by wood and wire! These things were foreseen by no man, he says; no man could tell what a day
would bring forth: they were "births of Providence," God's finger guided us on, and we came
at last to clear height of victory, God's Cause triumphant in these Nations; and you as a Parliament
could assemble together, and say in what manner all this could be organized, reduced into rational
feasibility among the affairs of men. You were to help with your wise counsel in doing that.
"You have had such an opportunity as no Parliament in England ever had." Christ's Law, the
Right and True, was to be in some measure made the Law of this land. In place of that, you
have got into your idle pedantries, constitutionalities, bottomless cavillings and questionings
about written laws for my coming here;--and would send the whole matter into Chaos again, because
I have no Notary's parchment, but only God's voice from the battle-whirlwind, for being President
among you! That opportunity is gone; and we know not when it will return. You have had your
constitutional Logic; and Mammon's Law, not Christ's Law, rules yet in this land. "God be judge
between you and me!" These are his final words to them: Take you your constitution-formulas
in your hand; and I my informal struggles, purposes, realities and acts; and "God be judge
between you and me!"--

We said above what shapeless, involved chaotic things the printed Speeches of Cromwell are.
Wilfully ambiguous, unintelligible, say the most: a hypocrite shrouding himself in confused
Jesuitic jargon! To me they do not seem so. I will say rather, they afforded the first glimpses
I could ever get into the reality of this Cromwell, nay into the possibility of him. Try to
believe that he means something, search lovingly what that may be: you will find a real speech
lying imprisoned in these broken rude tortuous utterances; a meaning in the great heart of
this inarticulate man! You will, for thc first time, begin to see that he was a man; not an
enigmatic chimera, unintelligible to you, incredible to you. The Histories and Biographies
written of this Cromwell, written in shallow sceptical generations that could not know or conceive
of a deep believing man, are far more obscure than Cromwell's Speeches. You look through them
only into the infinite vague of Black and the Inane. "Heats and jealousies," says Lord Clarendon
himself: "heats and jealousies," mere crabbed whims, theories and crotchets; these induced
slow sober quiet Englishmen to lay down their ploughs and work; and fly into red fury of confused
war against the best-conditioned of Kings! Try if you can find that true. Scepticism writing
about Belief may have great gifts; but it is really ultra vires there. It is Blindness laying
down the Laws of Optics.--

Cromwell's third Parliament split on the same rock as his second. Ever the constitutional Formula:
How came you there? Show us some Notary parchment! Blind pedants:--"Why, surely the same power
which makes you a Parliament, that, and something more, made me a Protector!" If my Protectorship
is nothing, what in the name of wonder is your Parliamenteership, a reflex and creation of that?--

Parliaments having failed, there remained nothing but the way of Despotism. Military Dictators,
each with his district, to coerce the Royalist and other gainsayers, to govern them, if not
by act of Parliament, then by the sword. Formula shall not carry it, while the Reality is here!
I will go on, protecting oppressed Protestants abroad, appointing just judges, wise managers,
at home, cherishing true Gospel ministers; doing the best I can to make England a Christian
England, greater than old Rome, the Queen of Protestant Christianity; I, since you will not
help me; I while God leaves me life!--Why did he not give it up; retire into obscurity again,
since the Law would not acknowledge him? cry several. That is where they mistake. For him there
was no giving of it up! Prime ministers have governed countries, Pitt, Pombal, Choiseul; and
their word was a law while it held: but this Prime Minister was one that could not get resigned.
Let him once resign, Charles Stuart and the Cavaliers waited to kill him; to kill the Cause
and him. Once embarked, there is no retreat, no return. This Prime Minister could retire no-whither
except into his tomb.

One is sorry for Cromwell in his old days. His complaint is incessant of the heavy burden Providence
has laid on him. Heavy; which he must bear till death. Old Colonel Hutchinson, as his wife
relates it, Hutchinson, his old battle-mate, coming to see him on some indispensable business,
much against his will,--Cromwell "follows him to the door," in a most fraternal, domestic,
conciliatory style; begs that he would be reconciled to him, his old brother in arms; says
how much it grieves him to be misunderstood, deserted by true fellow-soldiers, dear to him
from of old: the rigorous Hutchinson, cased in his Republican formula, sullenly goes his way.--And
the man's head now white; his strong arm growing weary with its long work! I think always too
of his poor Mother, now very old, living in that Palace of his; a right brave woman; as indeed
they lived all an honest God-fearing Household there: if she heard a shot go off, she thought
it was her son killed. He had to come to her at least once a day, that she might see with her
own eyes that he was yet living. The poor old Mother!--What had this man gained; what had he
gained? He had a life of sore strife and toil, to his last day. Fame, ambition, place in History?
His dead body was hung in chains, his "place in History,"--place in History forsooth!--has
been a place of ignominy, accusation, blackness and disgrace; and here, this day, who knows
if it is not rash in me to be among the first that ever ventured to pronounce him not a knave
and liar, but a genuinely honest man! Peace to him. Did he not, in spite of all, accomplish
much for us? We walk smoothly over his great rough heroic life; step over his body sunk in
the ditch there. We need not spurn it, as we step on it!--Let the Hero rest. It was not to
men's judgment that he appealed; nor have men judged him very well.

Precisely a century and a year after this of Puritanism had got itself hushed up into decent
composure, and its results made smooth, in 1688, there broke out a far deeper explosion, much
more difficult to hush up, known to all mortals, and like to be long known, by the name of
French Revolution. It is properly the third and final act of Protestantism; the explosive confused
return of mankind to Reality and Fact, now that they were perishing of Semblance and Sham.
We call our English Puritanism the second act: "Well then, the Bible is true; let us go by
the Bible!" "In Church," said Luther; "In Church and State," said Cromwell, "let us go by what
actually is God's Truth." Men have to return to reality; they cannot live on semblance. The
French Revolution, or third act, we may well call the final one; for lower than that savage
Sansculottism men cannot go. This star has a certain interest for us from the fact that, as a consequence
of that slow shift of direction of the earth's axis known as Precession, it will be very near
the north pole of the heavens in some 12,000 years, and so will then be considered the pole star
(see Plate XIX., p. 292).

The constellation of Lyra itself, it must also be borne in mind, occupies that region of the
heavens towards which the solar system is travelling.

The handle of the Plough points roughly towards the constellation of Boötes, in which is the
brilliant first magnitude star Arcturus. This star is of an orange
tint.

Between Boötes and Lyra lie the constellations of Corona Borealis (or the Northern Crown) and
Hercules. The chief feature of Corona Borealis, which is a small constellation, is a semicircle
of six small stars, the brightest of which is of the second magnitude. The constellation of Hercules
is very extensive, but contains no star brighter than the third magnitude.

Near to Lyra, on the side away from Hercules, are the constellations of Cygnus and Aquila. Of the
two, the former is the nearer to the Pole Star, and will be recognised by an arrangement of stars
widely set in the form of a cross, or perhaps indeed more like the framework of a boy's kite.
The position of Aquila will be found through the fact that three of its brightest stars are
almost in a line and close together. The middle of these is Altair,
a yellowish star of the first magnitude.

At a little distance from Ursa Major, on the side away from the Pole Star, is the constellation
of Leo, or the Lion. Its chief feature is a series of seven stars, supposed to form the head
of that animal. The arrangement of these stars is, however, much more like a sickle, wherefore
this portion of the constellation is usually known as the "Sickle of Leo." At the end of the
handle of the sickle is a white first magnitude star-- Regulus.
The reader will, no doubt, recollect that it is from a point in the
Sickle of Leo that the Leonid meteors appear to radiate.

The star
second in brightness in the constellation of Leo is known as Denebola.
This star, now below the second magnitude, seems to have been very
much brighter in the past. It is noted, indeed, as a brilliant first
magnitude star by Al Sufi, that famous Persian astronomer who lived,
as we have seen, in the tenth century. Ptolemy also notes it as of
the first magnitude. The old cry of wolf!--A Lie is no-thing; you cannot of nothing make something;
you make nothing at last, and lose your labor into the bargain.

Yet Napoleon had a sincerity: we are to distinguish between what is superficial and what is
fundamental in insincerity. Across these outer manoeuverings and quackeries of his, which were
many and most blamable, let us discern withal that the man had a certain instinctive ineradicable
feeling for reality; and did base himself upon fact, so long as he had any basis. He has an
instinct of Nature better than his culture was. His savans, Bourrienne tells us, in that voyage
to Egypt were one evening busily occupied arguing that there could be no God. They had proved
it, to their satisfaction, by all manner of logic. Napoleon looking up into the stars, answers,
"Very ingenious, Messieurs: but who made all that?" The Atheistic logic runs off from him like
water; the great Fact stares him in the face: "Who made all that?" So too in Practice: he,
as every man that can be great, or have victory in this world, sees, through all entanglements,
the practical heart of the matter; drives straight towards that. When the steward of his Tuileries
Palace was exhibiting the new upholstery, with praises, and demonstration how glorious it was,
and how cheap withal, Napoleon, making little answer, asked for a pair of scissors, clips one
of the gold tassels from a window-curtain, put it in his pocket, and walked on. Some days afterwards,
he produced it at the right moment, to the horror of his upholstery functionary; it was not
gold but tinsel! A young goldsmith offends the pride of a young woman by placing the above motto
on the sign over his shop; deeply veiled, she steps into his shop and asks him, as he displays
such excellent taste in his work, to express his opinion on her own physical charms; he begins
with her feet and her hands, and finally, noticing his confusion, she removes the veil from her
face.

The jeweller is carried away by her beauty, whereupon she complains to him that her father, who
has always kept her in the strictest seclusion, describes her to all her suitors as an ugly monster,
his object being, she imagines, simply to keep her dowry. The young man swears that he will
not be frightened off by these foolish objections, should the father raise them against his
suit. No sooner said than done. The daughter of this peculiar old gentleman is promised to the unsuspecting
jeweller, and is brought to her bridegroom as soon as he has signed the contract. He then sees
that the father has indeed spoken the truth, the real daughter being a perfect scarecrow. The
beautiful lady returns to the bridegroom to gloat over his desperation, and promises to release
him from his terrible marriage if he will remove the motto from his signboard. At this point I departed
from the original, and continued as follows: The enraged jeweller is on the point of tearing
down his unfortunate signboard when a curious apparition leads him to pause in the act. He sees
a bear-leader in the street making his clumsy beast dance, in whom the luckless lover recognises
at a glance his own father, from whom he has been parted by a hard
fate.

He suppresses any sign of emotion, for in a flash a scheme occurs to him by which he can utilise
this discovery to free himself from the hated marriage with the daughter
of the proud old aristocrat.

He
instructs the bear-leader to come that evening to the garden where the solemn betrothal is to take
place in the presence of the invited guests. To bridle in that great devouring,
self-devouring French Revolution; to tame it, so that its intrinsic purpose can be made good,
that it may become organic, and be able to live among other organisms and formed things, not
as a wasting destruction alone: is not this still what he partly aimed at, as the true purport
of his life; nay what he actually managed to do? Through Wagrams, Austerlitzes; triumph after
triumph,--he triumphed so far. There was an eye to see in this man, a soul to dare and do.
He rose naturally to be the King. All men saw that he was such. The common soldiers used to
say on the march: "These babbling Avocats, up at Paris; all talk and no work! What wonder it
runs all wrong? We shall have to go and put our Petit Caporal there!" They went, and put him
there; they and France at large. Chief-consulship, Emperorship, victory over Europe;--till
the poor Lieutenant of La Fere, not unnaturally, might seem to himself the greatest of all
men that had been in the world for some ages.

But at this point, I think, the fatal charlatan-element got the upper hand. He apostatized
from his old faith in Facts, took to believing in Semblances; strove to connect himself with
Austrian Dynasties, Popedoms, with the old false Feudalities which he once saw clearly to be
false;--considered that he would found "his Dynasty" and so forth; that the enormous French
Revolution meant only that! The man was "given up to strong delusion, that he should believe
a lie;" a fearful but most sure thing. He did not know true from false now when he looked at
them,--the fearfulest penalty a man pays for yielding to untruth of heart. Self and false ambition
had now become his god: self-deception once yielded to, all other deceptions follow naturally
more and more. What a paltry patchwork of theatrical paper-mantles, tinsel and mummery, had
this man wrapt his own great reality in, thinking to make it more real thereby! His hollow
Pope's-Concordat, pretending to be a re-establishment of Catholicism, felt by himself to be
the method of extirpating it, "la vaccine de la religion:" his ceremonial Coronations, consecrations
by the old Italian Chimera in Notre-Dame,--"wanting nothing to complete the pomp of it," as
Augereau said, "nothing but the half-million of men who had died to put an end to all that"!
Cromwell's Inauguration was by the Sword and Bible; what we must call a genuinely true one.
Sword and Bible were borne before him, without any chimera: were not these the real emblems
of Puritanism; its true decoration and insignia? It had used them both in a very real manner,
and pretended to stand by them now! The ceremonies themselves, properly speaking-- the dinner
of the twelve Apostles, served by the Pope, the washing of the feet by him, and all the different
customs of this solemn season-- excite very moving recollections; but a thousand inevitable circumstances
often injure the interest and the dignity of this spectacle.

All those who assist at it are not equally devout, equally occupied with pious ideas. These ceremonies,
so often repeated, have become a sort of mechanical exercise for most people, and the young
priests despatch the service of great festivals with an activity and a dexterity little calculated
to produce any religious effect. That indefinite, that unknown, that mysterious impression,
which religion ought to excite, is entirely destroyed by that species of attention which we
cannot help paying to the manner in which each acquits himself of his functions. The avidity
of some for the meats presented them, and the indifference of others in the genuflections which
they multiply and the prayers which they recite, often strip the
festival of its solemnity.

The ancient costumes which still serve for the vestments of the priests, agree badly with the
modern style of treating the hair. The Greek bishop, with his long beard, has the most respectable
appearance. The ancient custom also of making a reverence after the manner of women, instead
of bowing as men do now, produces an impression by no means serious. In a word, the ensemble
is not in harmony, and the ancient is blended with the modern without sufficient care being
taken to strike the imagination, or at least to avoid all that may distract it. A worship,
dazzling and majestic in its external forms, is certainly calculated to fill the soul with
the most elevated sentiments; but care must be taken that the ceremonies do not degenerate into
a spectacle in which each one plays his part-- in which each one studies what he must do at such
a moment; when he is to pray, when he is to finish his prayer; when to kneel down, and when
to get up. The regulated ceremonies of a court introduced into a temple of devotion, confine the
free movement of the heart, which can alone give man the hope of
drawing near to the Deity.

These observations are pretty generally felt by foreigners, but the Romans for the most part
do not grow weary of those ceremonies; and every year they find in them new pleasure. A singular
trait in the character of the Italians is, that their mobility does not make them inconstant,
nor does their vivacity render variety necessary to them. They are in every thing patient and
persevering; their imagination embellishes what they possess; it occupies their life instead
of rendering it uneasy; they think every thing more magnificent, more imposing, more fine, than it
really is: and whilst in other nations vanity consists in an affectation of boredom, that of the Italians,
or rather their warmth and vivacity, makes them find pleasure in
the sentiment of admiration.

Lord
Nelville, from all that the Romans had said to him, expected to be more affected by the ceremonies
of Holy Week. He regretted the noble and simple festivals of the Anglican church. He returned home
with a painful impression; for nothing is more sad than not being moved by that which ought to
move us; we believe that our soul is become dry, we fear that the fire of enthusiasm is extinguished
in us, without which the faculty of thinking can only serve to disgust
us with life.

Chapter iv.

But Good Friday soon restored to Lord Nelville all those religious emotions, the want of which
he so much regretted on the preceding days. The seclusion of Corinne was about to terminate;
he anticipated the happiness of seeing her again: the sweet expectations of tender affection
accord with piety; it is only a factious, worldly life, that is entirely
hostile to it. Oswald repaired to the Sixtine Chapel to hear the celebrated
miserere, so much talked of all over Europe. He arrived thither whilst
it was yet day, and beheld those celebrated paintings of Michael Angelo,
which represent the Last Judgment, with all the terrible power of
the subject and the talent which has handled it. With six months, instead of six days, we might have done
better. I promised to break ground on it; I know not whether I have even managed to do that.
I have had to tear it up in the rudest manner in order to get into it at all. Often enough,
with these abrupt utterances thrown out isolated, unexplained, has your tolerance been put
to the trial. We're still free. Shall we beat it or stay and try to check this out?

"He did not know how much of this got over to the spacehound, but the
impressions he received in answer were those of approving their remaining
where they were. With many feelings, I heartily
thank you all; and say, Good be with you all!

