They ran as fast as their feet could carry them. At a distance of about ten metres from the
tree, Gertrude collapsed. He carried her over to the meadow.

“How heavy you are,” he said.

“Too heavy for you?” she asked with wide-opened eyes. He shrugged his shoulders.

Then she slipped out of his embrace, sprang to her feet, and ran with remarkable swiftness
a distance that was twice as long as the one he had staked off; she did not fall; she did not
want to fall; she dared not.

Breathing heavily and pale as a corpse, she waited until he came up. But he had no tenderness
for her now; he merely scolded. Arm in arm they walked on. Gertrude felt for his hand; he gave
it to her, and she pressed it to her bosom.

Daniel was terrified as he looked into her face, and saw her thoughts written there as if in
letters of fire: We belong to each other for time and eternity.

That was her confession of faith.

                                  VII

She lay wide awake until late at night. She heard him go into the kitchen and get a drink of
water and then return to his room. He had forbidden her to come to the door and ask whether
he was not going to bed soon: she was not to do this, it made no difference how late it was.

Then he lay beside her, his head on his arm, and looked at her with eyes that had lost their
earthly, temporal glow. Man, where are your eyes anyway, she would have liked to exclaim. And
yet she knew where they were; she knew, too, that it is dangerous to disturb a somnambulist
by calling to him.

One night he had found it impossible to do his work. He sat down on the edge of the bed and
stared into the light of the lamp for an hour or so, hating himself. Gertrude saw how he raged
at himself; how he really fed, nourished his lack of confidence in himself. But she could not
say anything.

A publisher had returned one of his manuscripts with a courteous but depressing conventional
rejection slip. Daniel spoke disparagingly of his talents; he had lost hope in his future;
he was bitter at the world; he felt that he was condemned to a life of unceasing obscurity.

The only thing she could do was look at him; merely look at him.

He became tired of having her look at him; a fresh, vigorous remark would have served his purpose
much better, he thought.

She measured her work and his not in terms of reward; she did not seek for connection of any
kind between privation and hope; nor did she measure Daniel’s love in terms of tender expressions
and embraces. She waited for him with much patience. In time her patience irritated him. “A
little bit more activity and insistence would not hurt you,” he said one day, and thrust her
timid, beseeching hands from him.

He saw himself cared for: He had a home, a person who prepared his meals, washed his clothes,
and faithfully attended to his other household needs. He should have been grateful. He was,
too, but he could not show it. He was grateful when he was alone, but in Gertrude’s presence
his gratitude turned to defiance. If he was away from home, he thought with pleasure of his
return; he pictured Gertrude’s joy at seeing him again. But when he was with her, he indulged
in silent criticism, and wanted to have everything about her different.

The judge’s wife on the first floor complained that Gertrude did not speak to her. “Be kind
to your neighbours,” he remarked with the air of a professional scold. The next Sunday they
took a walk, on which they met the judge’s wife. Gertrude spoke to her: “Well, you don’t need
to fall on her neck,” he mumbled. She thought for a long while of how she might speak to people
without offending them and without annoying Daniel. She was embarrassed; she was afraid of
Daniel’s criticism.

On such days she would put too much salt in the soup, everything went wrong, and in her diligent
attempt to be punctual she lost much time. She was fearfully worried when he got up from the
table and went to his room without saying a word. She would sit perfectly still and listen;
she was frightened when he went to the piano to try a motif. When he again entered her room,
she looked into his face with the tenseness of a soul in utter anguish. Then it suddenly came
about that he would sit down by her side and caress her. He told her all about his life, his
home, his father, his mother. If she could only have heard each of his words twice! If she
could only have drunk in the expression in his eyes! They were filled with peace; his nervous
hands lay in quiet on his knees when he spoke to her in this way on these subjects. His twitching,
angular face, weather-beaten by the storms of life, took on an expression of sorrow that was
most becoming to it.

When she had a headache or was tired, he expressed his anxiety for her in touching tones. He
would go about the house on tiptoes, and close the doors with infinite care. If a dog barked
on the street, he rushed to the window and looked out, enraged at the beast. When she retired,
he would help her undress, and bring her whatever she needed.

It was also strange that he disliked the idea of leaving her alone. There was something child-like
in his restlessness when he was at home and she was out. He pictured her surrounded by grievous
dangers; he would have liked to lock her up and hold her a captive, so as to be sure that she
was quite safe. This made her all the weaker and more dependent upon him, while he was like
a man who presses what he has to his heart, plagued with the thought that by some mischance
it might escape, and yet clings to it also lest he be disturbed by the thought of another more
precious possession he loved long since and lost a while.

Once he came to Gertrude while she was playing the harp, threw his arms about her, looked into
her face with a wild, gloomy expression, and stammered: “I love you, I love you, I do.” It
was the first time he had spoken these eternal words. She grew pale, first from joy and then
from fear; for there was more of hatred than of love in his voice.

                                 VIII

He felt that association with congenial men would help him over many a dark hour. But when
he set out to look for these men, the city became a desert and a waste place.

Herr Seelenfromm came to his house now and then. Daniel could not endure the timid man who
admired him so profoundly, and who, in the bottom of his heart, had an equal amount of respect
for Gertrude. The young architect who had been employed at the St. Sebaldus Church while it
was being renovated, and who loved music, had won Daniel’s esteem. But he had a repulsive habit
of smacking his tongue when he talked. Daniel and he discussed the habit, and parted the worst
of enemies. His association with a certain Frenchman by the name of Rivière was of longer duration.
Rivière was spending some time in the city, looking up material for a life of Caspar Hauser.
He had made his acquaintance at the Baroness von Auffenberg’s, and taken a liking to him because
he reminded him of Friedrich Benda.

M. Rivière loved to hear Daniel improvise on the piano. He knew so little German that he merely
smiled at Daniel’s caustic remarks; and if he became violently enraged, M. Rivière merely stared
at his mouth. He had a wart on his cheek, and wore a straw hat summer and winter. He cooked
his own meals, for it was an obsession of his that people wanted to poison him because he was
writing a life of Caspar Hauser.

When Herr Seelenfromm and M. Rivière came in of a Sunday evening, Daniel would reach for a
volume of E. T. A. Hoffmann or Clemens Brentano, and read from them until he was hoarse. He
tried in this way to find peace in a strange world; for he did not wish to weep at the sight
of human beings who seemed perfectly at ease.

Gertrude looked at him, and put this question to herself: How is it that a man to whom music
is life and the paradise of his heart can allow himself to be so enveloped in sorrow, so beclouded
by gloom? She understood the smarting pains in which he composed; she had a vague idea of the
labyrinthine complications of his inner fate; these she grasped. But her own soul was filled
with joyless compassion; she wished with all her power to plant greater faith and more happiness
in his heart.

She meditated on the best means of carrying on her spiritual campaign. It occurred to her that
he had had more of both faith and happiness at the time he was going with Eleanore. She saw
Eleanore now in a quite different light. She recalled that Eleanore was not merely her sister
but the creator of her happiness. Nor was she unmindful of the fact that through the transformation
of her being, love and enlightenment had arisen to take the place of her former suspicion and
ignorance.

She ascribed to Eleanore all those powers in which she had formerly been lacking: general superiority
and stimulating vigour; an ability to play that lent charm to drudgery and made the hard things
of life easy; brightness in conversation and delicacy of touch. In her lonely broodings she
came to the conclusion that Eleanore was the only one who could help her. She went straightway
to her father’s house to find out why Eleanore so rarely came to see her.

“I don’t like to come; Daniel is so unkind to me,” said Eleanore.

Gertrude replied that he was unkind to everybody, including her herself, and that she must
not pay any attention to this; for she knew full well that Daniel liked her—and perhaps he
himself was offended because she never called.

Eleanore thought it all over, and from then on visited her sister more frequently. But if it
did not look as though Daniel did everything in his power to avoid her, this much was certain:
he never said a word to her more than human decency required, and was an expert at finding
reasons why he had to leave the room when she was there. Eleanore was gainfully conscious of
this; it hurt her.

                                  IX

One morning Gertrude returned from the market, carrying a heavy basket full of things she had
bought. As she came in the front door she heard Daniel playing. She noticed at once that he
was not improvising; that he was playing a set piece, the tones of which were quite unfamiliar
to her.

As she came up the steps, the basket no longer seemed like a burden. She went quietly into
the living room and listened. Something drew her closer and closer to the piano. Daniel had
not noticed that she had entered the room and sat down. He was wholly lost in what he was doing;
he never took his rapt and wondering eyes from the music before him.

It was his draft of the “Harzreise im Winter.” For a year and a half, since the time he had
composed it in Ansbach, he had never again thought of it; it had lain untouched. Suddenly the
fire of creation had flamed up in him; he could once more bind the incoherent, and make what
had been merely implied or indicated take definite shape.

He would play a movement again and again, trying to connect it with what went before or came
after; he would take his pencil and write in a few notes here or there; then he would try it
again, and smile to himself in a strange, confused, and yet enchanted way, when he saw that
the motif was complete, perfect. Gertrude was drawn still closer to him. In her awe-struck
admiration she crouched on the floor beside him. She would have liked to creep into the piano,
and give her soul the opportunity it sought to express itself in the tones that came from the
strings. When Daniel had finished, she pressed her head to his hips, and reached her hot hands
up to him.

Daniel was terrified; for he recalled instantaneously another occasion on which another woman
had done precisely the same thing. His eye involuntarily fell on the mask of Zingarella. He
was not conscious of the connection; there was no visible bridge between the two incidents;
Gertrude’s face was too unlike that of its momentary prototype. But with a feeling of awe he
detected a mysterious liaison between then and now: he imagined he could hear a voice calling
to him from the distant shores of yonder world.

He laid his hand on Gertrude’s hair. She interpreted the gesture as a visible sign that his
promise had been fulfilled; that this work belonged to her; that he had created it for her,
had taken it from her heart, and was returning it to the heart from whence it came.

                                   X

Zierfuss, the music dealer, had sent out invitations to a concert. Daniel did not feel like
going. Gertrude asked Eleanore if she would not go with her. Daniel called for them after the
concert.

Eleanore told him on the way home that she had received a letter for him that afternoon bearing
a London stamp.

“From Benda?” asked Daniel quickly.

“It is Benda’s handwriting,” replied Eleanore. “I was going to bring it to you when Gertrude
called for me. Wait out in the front of the house, and I’ll go in and get it.”

“Take dinner with us this evening, Eleanore,” said Gertrude, looking rather uncertainly at Daniel.

“If it is agreeable to Daniel....”

“No nonsense, Eleanore, of course it is agreeable to me,” said Daniel.

A quarter of an hour later Daniel was sitting by the lamp reading Benda’s letter.

The first thing his friend told him was that he was to join a scientific expedition to the
Congo, and that his party would follow almost exactly the same route that had been taken by
the Stanley Expedition when it set out to look for Emin Pascha.

Benda wrote: “This letter then, my dear friend, is written to say good-bye for a number of
years, perhaps forever. I feel as if I had been born anew. I have eyes again; and the ideas
that fill my brain are no longer condemned to be stifled in the morass of imprisoned colleagues,
loyal and inimical. To labour in nature’s laboratory will make me forget the wrongs I have
suffered, the injustice that has been done me. Hunger and thirst, disease and danger will of
course have to be endured; they are the effects of those crimes of civilisation that spare
the body while they poison the mind and soul.”

Further on Benda wrote: “I am bound to my home by only two people, my mother and you. When
I think of you, a feeling of pride comes over me; every hour we spent together is indelibly
stamped on my heart. But there is one delicate point: it is a point of conscience. Call it,
so far as I am concerned, a chip; call it anything you please. The fact is I have had a Don
Quixotic run in, and I have got to defend myself.”

Daniel shook his head and read on. Benda knew nothing of his marriage. He did not even seem
to know that Daniel and Gertrude had been engaged. Or if he had known it he had forgotten it.
Daniel could hardly believe his own eyes when he came to the following passage: “My greatest
anxiety always lay in the fear that you would pass Eleanore by. I was too cowardly to tell
you how I felt on this point, and I have reproached myself ever since for my cowardice. Now
that I am leaving I tell you how I feel about this matter, though not exactly with the sensation
of performing a belated task.”

For Heaven’s sake, thought Daniel, what is he trying to do to me?

“I have often thought about it in quiet hours; it gave me the same feeling of satisfaction
that I have in a chemical experiment, when the reactions of the various elements take place
as they should: what Eleanore says is your word; what you feel is Eleanore’s law.”

He is seeing ghosts, cried Daniel, he is tangling up the threads of my life. What does he mean?
Why does he do it?

“Don’t neglect what I am telling you! Don’t crush that wonderful flower! The girl is a rare
specimen; the rarest I know. You need your whole heart with all its powers of love and kindness
to appreciate her. But if my words reach you too late, please tear this letter into shreds,
and get the whole idea out of your mind as soon and completely as possible.”

“Come, let’s eat,” said Gertrude, as she entered the room with a dish of pickled herring.

Eleanore was sitting on the sofa looking at Daniel quizzically. He was lost in thought.

Daniel looked up, and studied the two women as if they were the figures of a hallucination:
the one in dark red, the other in dark blue; minor and major keys. The two stood side by side,
and yet so far removed from each other: they were the two poles of his world.

                                  XI

“What has Benda got to say?” asked Gertrude hesitatingly.

“Just think, he is going to Africa,” replied Daniel, with a voice as if he were lying. “Curious,
isn’t it? I suppose he is on the ocean by this time.”

With an expression on his face that clearly betrayed the fact that he was afraid the sisters
might somehow divine or suspect the parts of the letter he wished to keep to himself, he read
as much of it as he dared to them.

“Why don’t you read on?” asked Eleanore, when he paused.

She bent over the table, filled with a burning curiosity to know the whole contents of the
letter, and while so doing her hair became entangled in the metal bric-a-brac of the hanging
lamp. Gertrude got up and liberated her.

Daniel had laid his hand over the letter, and was looking at Eleanore threateningly. His eye
and that of the captured girl chanced to meet; she struggled between a feeling of amusement
and one of annoyance. It gave Daniel an uncomfortable feeling to have her eyes so close to his.

“Don’t you know that that is not polite?” he asked. “We have some secrets, probably, Benda and I.”

“I merely thought that Benda had sent me his greetings,” replied Eleanore, and blushed with
embarrassment.

Daniel then held the letter above the chimney of the lamp, waited until it had caught fire,
and then threw it on the floor, where it burned up.

“It is late, and father is already waiting,” said Eleanore, after they had eaten in great haste.

“I will take you home,” declared Daniel. Surprised by such unusual gallantry, Eleanore looked
at him with amazement. He at once became moody; she was still more surprised. “I can go home
alone, Daniel,” she said in a tone of noticeable seriousness, “you do not need to put yourself
out for me.”

“Put myself out? What do you mean? Are you one of those people who can’t keep a tune, and step
on the pedal when their sentiment runs short?”

Eleanore had nothing to say.

“Put your great coat on, Daniel,” said Gertrude in the hall, “it is cold and windy out.”

She wanted to help him on with it, but he threw it in the clothes press; he was irritated.

He walked along at Eleanore’s side through the deserted streets.

She had already put the key in the front door, when she turned around, looked up in a most
unhappy way, and said: “Daniel, what in the world is the matter with you? When I look at you,
a feeling of anguish and distress comes over me. What have I done that you should act so disagreeably
toward me?”

“Oh, forget it, think about something else, don’t mention the subject any more,” said Daniel,
in a rough, rude voice. But the glance she fixed on him was so stern and unpitying, so testing
and so un-girl-like, so strong and so bold, that he felt his heart grow softer. “Let us take
a little walk,” he said.

For a long time they paced back and forth in perfect silence. Then she asked him what he was
working on now. He made cautious, non-committal replies, and then suddenly he was overwhelmed
with a flood of words. He remarked that he felt at times as if he were struggling with goblins
in the dark. What gushed forth from the deepest depths of his soul, he said, was somehow or
other too noisy and blatant, and died in his hands while he was trying to create an appropriate
form for it. He said he had no success with anything unless it was something disembodied, incorporeal,
the melody of which had thus far found an echo in no human breast. Therefore he seemed to be
groping around, without anchorage, after sprites from the land of nowhere. And the more domineering
the order was to which he subjected his mind and his fancy, the more lost and hopeless his
earthly self seemed to be as it drifted in the chaos of the everyday world. He remarked that
heaven was in his dreams, hell in his association with men. And how dead everything about him
seemed to be! It was all like a cemetery; it was a cemetery. His doughtiest life was gradually
transformed into a shadow and lacerated into a monstrosity. But that he was aggrieved at men
he felt full well; for they lived more innocent lives than he, and they were more useful.

“But you have some one to hold to,” said Eleanore, realising that she was skating on thin ice,
“you have Gertrude.”

To this he made no reply. She waited for him to say something, and when she saw that he did
not care to make a reply of any kind, she smiled at him as if in a last attempt to get him
to tell her what was the matter. Then all peace of mind vanished from her soul—and her face.
Every time they passed a street lamp she turned her head to one side.

“She is after all in the presence of God your wife,” said Eleanore gently and with remarkable
solemnity.

Daniel looked up and listened as if greatly abashed. Speaking out into the wind he said: “The
over-tone, Eleanore; a bird twittering in the bush. In the presence of God my wife! But in
the roots the bass is howling; it is an infernal tremolo; do you hear it?”

He laughed as if mad, and his face, with his spotted teeth, was turned toward her. She took
him by the arm, and implored him to straighten up.

He pressed her hand to his forehead, and said: “The letter, Eleanore, the letter ...!”

“Now you see, Daniel, I knew it all along. What was in the letter?”

“I dare not tell you, otherwise my sweet over-tone will take a somersault, become mingled with
the gloomy bass, and be lost forever.”

Eleanore looked at him in amazement; he had never seemed so much like a fool to her in her life.

“Listen,” he said, putting his arm in hers, “I have composed a song; here is the way it goes.”
He sang a melody he had written for one of Eichendorff’s poems. In it there was a tender sadness.
“While everything is still and everybody asleep, my soul greets the eternal light, and rests
like a ship in the harbour.”

They had again reached the front door; they had been strolling back and forth for two hours.

He had an unpleasant feeling when he went up the steps of his apartment.

Gertrude was sitting where he had left her: by the clothes press. She had wrapped his top coat
about her legs, her back was leaning against the wall, her head had sunk on her shoulder; she
was asleep. She was not awakened by his coming. Beside her stood the candle, now burned down
to the edge of the metal holder; it was spluttering. The light from it fell on Gertrude’s face,
lighting it up irregularly and lending it a painful expression.

“In the presence of God my wife,” murmured Daniel. He did not waken Gertrude until the candle
had gone out. Then he did; she got up, and the two went off in darkness to their bed room.

                         THE GLASS CASE BREAKS

                                   I

Daniel wished to see Eleanore skate; he went out to the Maxfeld at a time he knew she would
be there.

He saw her quite soon, and was delighted when she glided by; but when she was lost in the crowd,
he frowned. High school boys followed her with cowardly and obtrusive forwardness. One student,
who wore a red cap, fell flat on his stomach as he bowed to her.

She ran into two army officers, or they into her; this put an end for the time being to the
inspired grace of her movement. When she started off a second time, drawing a beautiful circle,
she saw Daniel and came over to him. She smiled in a confidential way, chatted with him, glided
backwards in a circle about him, laughed at his impatience because she would not stand still,
threw her muff over to him, asked him to throw it back, and, with arms raised to catch it,
cut an artistic figure on the ice.

The picture she offered filled Daniel with reverence for the harmony of her being.

                                  II

They frequently took walks after sunset out to the suburbs and up to the castle. Gertrude was
pleased to see that Daniel and Eleanore were good friends again.

One time when they walked up the castle hill, Eleanore told Daniel that there was where she
had taken leave of Eberhard von Auffenberg. She could recall everything he said, and she confessed
with marked candour what she had said in reply. The story about the old herb woman Daniel did
not find amusing. He stopped, and said: “Child, don’t have anything to do with spirits! Never
interfere with your lovely reality.”

“Don’t talk in that way,” replied Eleanore. “I dislike it. The tone of your voice and the expression
on your face make me feel as if I were a woman of worldly habits.”

They went into the Church of St. Sebaldus, and revelled in the beauty of the bronze castings
on the tomb of the saint. They also went to the Germanic Museum, where they loved to wander
around in the countless deserted passage-ways, stopped and studied the pictures, and never
tired of looking at the old toys, globes, kitchen utensils, and armour.

Eleanore’s greatest pleasure, however, was derived from sauntering through the narrow alleys.
She like to stand in an open door, and look into the court at some weather-beaten statue; to
stand before the window of an antique shop, and study the brocaded objects, silver chains,
rings with gaudy stones, engraved plates, and rare clocks. All manner of roguish ideas came
to her mind, and around every wish she wove a fairy tale. The meagrest incident sufficed to
send her imagination to the land of wonders, just as if the fables and legends that the people
had been passing on from hearth to hearth for centuries were leading a life of reality over there.

The tailor sitting with crossed legs on his table; the smith hammering the red-hot iron; the
juggler who made the rounds of the city with the trained monkey; the Jewish pawnbroker, the
chimney sweep, the one-legged veteran, an old woman who looked out from some cellar, a spider’s
nest in the corner of a wall—around all these things and still others she wound her tale of
weal or woe. It seemed that what she saw had never been seen by mortal eyes before. It seemed
that the things or people that attracted her attention had not existed until she had seen them.
For this reason she was never in a bad humour, never bored, never lazy, never tired.

There was something about her, however, that Daniel could not understand. He did not know wherein
the riddle lay, he merely knew that there was one. If she gave him her hand, it seemed to him
that there was something unreal about it. If he requested that she look at him, she did so,
but it seemed that her glance was divided, half going to the left, half to the right, neither
meeting his. If she came so close to him that their arms touched, he had the feeling that he
could not take hold of her if he wished to.

He struggled against the enticement that lay in this peculiarity.

Her presence ennobled his ambition and dispelled his whims. She gave him the beautifully formed
cloud, the tree covered with young foliage, the moon that rises up over the roofs of the houses—she
gave him the whole earth over which he was hastening, a stranger to peace, unfamiliar with
contentment.

He cherished no suspicion; he had no foreshadowing of his fate. And Eleanore was not afraid
of him; she, too, was without a sense of danger.

                                  III

One Sunday afternoon in April they took a walk out into the country. Gertrude had been suffering
for weeks from lassitude and could not go with them.

Eleanore was a superb walker. It gave Daniel extreme pleasure to walk along with her, keeping
step, moving hastily. The quick movement increased his susceptibility to the charm of the changing
landscapes. It was quite different when he walked with Gertrude. She was slow, given to introspection,
thoughtful, and not very strong.

In the course of an hour clouds gathered in the sky, the sun disappeared, big drops began to
fall. Eleanore had taken neither umbrella nor rain coat along; she began to walk more rapidly.
If they tried, they could reach the inn beyond the forest, and find shelter from the storm.

Just as they slipped through the crowd that had hurried up the road to the same refuge and
entered the inn, the sluices of heaven seemed to open, and a cloud-burst followed. They were
standing in the hall. Eleanore was warm, and did not wish to remain in the draught. They went
into the restaurant; it was so full that they had considerable trouble to find seats. A working
man, his wife, and four sickly-looking children squeezed up more closely together; the two
youngest boys gave them their chairs and went to look for others.

The clouds hung low, causing premature darkness. Lamps were lighted, and their odour mingled
freely with the other odours of this overcrowded room. A few village musicians played some
unknown piece; the eyes of the workingman’s children shone with delight. Because they sat there
so quietly—and because they looked so pale—Eleanore gave each of the children a sandwich. The
mother was very grateful, and said so. The father, who said he was the foreman in a mirror
factory, began to talk with Daniel about the troubles of the present era.

All of a sudden Daniel caught sight of a familiar face at a nearby table. As it turned to one
side, he saw in the dim, smelly light another face he knew, and then a third and a fourth.
It was all so ghost-like in the room that it was some time before he knew just where to place
them. Then it occurred to him where they came from.

Herr Hadebusch and Frau Hadebusch, Herr Francke and Benjamin Dorn were having a little Sunday
outing. The brush-maker’s wife was radiant with joy on seeing her old lodger. She nodded, she
blinked, she folded her hands as if touched at the sight, and Herr Hadebusch raised his beer
glass, eager to drink a toast to Daniel’s health.

They could not quite make out who Eleanore was; they took her for Daniel’s wife. This misunderstanding,
it seemed, was then cleared up by the Methodist after he had craned his neck and called his
powers of recognition into play. The demoniac woman nodded, to be sure, and kept on blinking,
but in her face there was an expression of rustic disapproval. Her mouth was opened, and the
tusks of her upper jaw shone forth uncannily from the black abyss.

The swan neck of the Methodist was screwed up so hardily and picturesquely above the heads
of the others that Eleanore could not help but notice his physical and spiritual peculiarities.
She wrinkled her brow, and looked at Daniel questioningly.

She looked around, and saw a great many people from the city whom she knew either by name or
from having met them so frequently. There was a saleswoman from Ludwig Street; a clerk with
a pock-marked face from a produce store; the dignified preceptress of a Kindergarten; an official
of the savings bank; the hat-maker from the corner of the Market Place with his grown daughter;
and the sergeant who invariably saluted when he passed by her.

All these people were in their Sunday clothes and seemed care-free and good natured. But as
soon as they saw Eleanore a mean expression came over them. The fluttering of the lights made
their faces look ghastly, while partial intoxication made it easy to read their filthy, lazy
thoughts. Full of anxiety, Eleanore looked up at Daniel, as if she felt she would have to rely
on his wealth of experience and greater superiority in general.

He was sorry for her and sorry for himself. He knew what was in store for him and her. When
he looked over this Hogarthian gathering, and saw, despite its festive, convivial mood, hidden
lusts of every description, crippled passions, secreted envy, and mysterious vindictiveness
spread about like the stench of foul blood, he felt it was quite futile to cherish delusions
of any kind as to what was before him. To spare Eleanore and to defend her, to leave her rather
than be guilty of causing the child-like smile on her lips to die out and disappear forever—this
he believed in the bottom of his heart he could promise both her and himself.

The working man and his family had left; and as it was no longer raining, most of the other
guests had also gone. Up in the room above people were dancing. The lamps were shaking, and
it was easy to hear the low sounds of the bass violin. Daniel took out his pencil, and began
writing notes on the table. Eleanore bent over, looking at him, and, like him, fell to dreamy
thinking.

Neither wished to know what the other was thinking; they entertained themselves in silence;
inwardly they were drawn closer and closer together, as if by some mysterious and irresistible
power. They had not noticed that it was evening, that the room was empty, that the waiters
had taken the glasses away, and that the dance music in the room above had stopped.

They sat there in the half-lighted corner side by side, as if in some dark, deserted cavern.
When they finally came out of their deep silence and looked at each other, they were first
surprised and then dismayed.

“What are we going to do?” asked Eleanore half in a whisper, “it is late; we must be going home.”

The sky was clouded, a warm wind swept across the plains, the road was full of puddles. Here
and there a light flashed from the darkness, and a dog barked every now and then in the distant
villages. When the road turned into the forest, Daniel gave Eleanore his arm. She took it,
but soon let go. Daniel stopped, and said almost angrily: “Are we bewitched, both of us? Speak,
Eleanore, speak!”

“What is there for me to say?” she asked gently. “I am frightened; it is so dark.”

“You are frightened, Eleanore, you? You do not know the night. It has never yet been night
in your soul; nor night in the world about you. Now you appreciate perhaps how a being of the
night feels.”

She made no reply.

“Give me your hand,” he said, “I will lead you.”

She gave him her hand. Soon they saw the lights of the city. He took her to her house; but
when they reached it, they did not say good-bye: they looked at each other with dazed, helpless,
seeking eyes; they were both pale and speechless.

Eleanore hastened into the hall, but turned as she reached the stairs, and waved to him with
a smile, as if the two were separated by a hazy distance. As he fixed his eyes on the spot
where he saw the slender figure disappear, he felt as if something were clutching his throat.

                                  IV

Without the slightest regard for time, without feeling tired, without definite thoughts, detached
from the present and all sense of obligation, Daniel wandered aimlessly through the streets.
A low dive on Schütt Island saw him as a late guest. He sat there with his hands before his
eyes, neither seeing nor hearing nor feeling, all crouched up in a bundle. Dirty little puddles
of gin glistened on the top of the table, the gamblers were cursing, the proprietor was drunk.

The fire alarm drove him out: there was a fire in the suburbs of Schoppershof. The sky was
reddened, it was drizzling. It seemed to Daniel that the air was reeking with the premonition
of a heart-crushing disaster. Above the Laufer Gate a sheaf of sparks was whirling about.

Just then the melody for which he had waited so long throughout so many nights of restless
despair arose before him in a grandiose circle. It seemed as if born for the words of the “Harzreise”:
“With the dim burning torch thou lightest for him the ferries at night over bottomless paths,
across desolate fields.”

In mournful thirds, receding again and again, the voices sank to earth; just one remained on
high, alone, piously dissociated from profane return.

He hummed the melody with trembling lips to himself, until he met the nineteenth-century Socrates
with his followers in the Rosenthal. They were still gipsying through the night.

They all talked at once; they were going to the fire. Daniel passed by unrecognised. The shrill
voice of the painter Kropotkin pierced the air: “Hail to the flames! Hail to those whose coming
we announce!” The laughter of the slough brothers died away in the distance.

Gertrude was standing at the head of the stairs with a candle in her hand; she had been waiting
there since twelve o’clock. At eleven she had gone over to her father’s house and rung the
bell. Eleanore, frightened, had raised the window, and called down to her that Daniel had left
her at nine.

He took the half-inanimate woman into the living room: “You must never wait for me, never,”
he said.

He opened the window, pointed to the glowing sky beyond the church, and as she leaned her head,
with eyes closed, on his shoulder, he said with a scurrilous distortion of his face: “Behold!
The fire! Hail to the flames! Hail to those whose coming we announce!”

                                   V

The following morning Eleanore had no time to think of why Daniel had not gone home.

Jordan had just finished his breakfast when some one rang the door bell with unusual rapidity.
Eleanore went to the door, and came back with Herr Zittel, who was in a rare state of excitement.

“I have come to inquire about your son, Jordan,” he began, clearing his throat as though he
were embarrassed.

“About my son?” replied Jordan astonished, “I thought you had given him three days’ leave.”

“I know nothing about that,” replied Herr Zittel.

“Last Saturday evening he went on a visit to his friend Gerber in Bamberg to celebrate the
founding of a club, or something of that sort; we are not expecting him until to-morrow. If
you know nothing about this arrangement, Herr Diruf must have given him his leave.”

The chief of the clerical department bit his lips. “Can you give me the address of this Herr
Gerber?” he asked, “I should like to send him a telegram.”

“For heaven’s sake, what has happened, Herr Zittel?” cried Jordan, turning pale.

Herr Zittel stared into space with his gloomy, greenish eyes: “On Saturday afternoon Herr Diruf
gave your son a cheque for three thousand seven hundred marks, and told him to cash it at the
branch of the Bavarian Bank and bring the money to me. I was busy and did not go to the office
in the afternoon. To-day, about a half-hour ago, Herr Diruf asked me whether I had received
the money. It turned out that your son had not put in his appearance on Saturday, and since
he has not shown up this morning either, you will readily see why we are so uneasy.”

Jordan straightened up as stiff as a flag pole: “Do you mean to insinuate that my son is guilty
of some criminal transaction?” he thundered forth, and struck the top of the table with the
bones of his clenched fist.

Herr Zittel shrugged his shoulders: “It is, of course, possible that there has been some misunderstanding,
or that some one has failed to perform his duty. But in any event the affair is serious. Something
must be done at once, and if you leave me in the lurch I shall have to call in the police.”

Jordan’s face turned ashen pale. For some reason or other he began to fumble about in his long
black coat for the pocket. The coat had no pocket, and yet he continued to feel for it with
hasty fingers. He tried to speak, but his tongue refused to obey him; beads of perspiration
settled on his brow.

Eleanore embraced him with solicitous affection: “Be calm, Father, don’t imagine the worst.
Sit down, and let us talk it over.” She dried the perspiration from his forehead with her handkerchief,
and then breathed a kiss on it.

Jordan fell on a chair; his powers of resistance were gone; he looked at Eleanore with beseeching
tenseness. From the very first she had known what had happened and what would happen. But she
dared not show him that she was without hope; she summoned all the power at her resourceful
command to prevent the old man from having a paralytic stroke.

With the help of Herr Zittel she wrote out a telegram to Gerber. The answer, to be pre-paid,
was to be sent to the General Agency of the Prudentia, and Eleanore was to go to the main office
between eleven and twelve o’clock. She accompanied Herr Zittel to the front door, whereupon
he said: “Do everything in your power to get the money. If the loss can be made good at once,
Herr Diruf may be willing not to take the case to the courts.”

Eleanore knew full well that it would be exceedingly difficult to get such a sum as this. Her
father had no money in the bank; his employer had lost confidence in him because he could no
longer exert himself; what he needed most of all was a rest.

She entered the room with a friendly expression on her face, and remarked quite vivaciously:
“Now, Father, we will wait and see what Benno has to say; and in order that you may not worry
so much, I will read something nice to you.”

Sitting on a hassock at her father’s feet she read from a recent number of the Gartenlaube
the description of an ascent of Mont Blanc. Then she read another article that her eye chanced
to fall upon. All the while her bright voice was ringing through the room, she was struggling
with decisions to which she might come and listening to the ticking of the clock. That her
father no more had his mind on what she was reading than she herself was perfectly clear to her.

Finally the clock struck eleven. She got up, and said she had to go to the kitchen to make
the fire. A maid usually came in at eleven to get dinner for the family, but to-day she had
not appeared. Out in the hall Eleanore took her straw hat, and hastened over to Gertrude’s
as fast as her feet could carry her. Daniel was not at home; Gertrude was peeling potatoes.

In three sentences Eleanore had told her sister the whole story. “Now you come with me at once!
Go up and stay with Father! See that he does not leave the house! I will be back in half an hour!”

Gertrude was literally dragged down the steps by Eleanore; before she could ask questions of
any kind, Eleanore had disappeared.

At the General Agency Herr Zittel met her with the reply from that Gerber, Benno’s friend.
It bore Gerber’s signature, and read: “Benno Jordan has not been here.”

Benjamin Dorn stood behind Herr Zittel; he displayed an expression of soft, smooth, dirge-like
regret.

“Herr Diruf would like to speak to you,” said Herr Zittel coldly.

Eleanore entered Herr Diruf’s private office; her face was pale. He kept on writing for about
three minutes before he took any notice of her. Then his plum-like eyes opened lazily, a rare,
voluptuous smile sneaked out from under his moustache like a slothful flash of heat lightning;
he said: “The sharper has gone and done it, hasn’t he?”

Eleanore never moved.

“Can the embezzled money be returned within twenty-four hours?” asked the pudgy, purple prince
of pen-pushers.

“My father will do everything that is humanly possible,” replied Eleanore anxiously.

“Be so good as to inform your father that to-morrow morning at twelve o’clock the charge will
be preferred and placed in the hands of the police, if the money has not been paid by that time.”

Eleanore hastened home. Now her father had to be brought face to face with the realities of
the case. He and Gertrude were sitting close to each other in terrible silence. Eleanore revealed
the exact state of affairs; she had to.

“My good name!” groaned Jordan.

He had to save himself from disgrace; the twenty-four hours seemed to offer him a sure means
of doing this. He had not the remotest doubt but that he could find friends who would come
to his aid; for he had something of which he could boast: a blameless past and the reputation
of being a reliable citizen.

Thus he thought it over to himself. And as soon as he made up his mind to appeal to the friends
of whom he felt he was certain, the most difficult part of his plan seemed to have been completed.
The suffering to which he was condemned by his wounded pride and his betrayed, crushed filial
affection he had to bear alone. He knew that this was a separate item.

He went out to look up his friends.

                                  VI

The first one he appealed to was the brother-in-law of his sister, First Lieutenant Kupferschmied,
retired. His sister had died six months ago, leaving nothing; the lieutenant, however, was
a well-to-do man. He had married into the family of a rich merchant. Jordan’s relation to him
had always been pleasant; indeed the old soldier seemed to be very fond of him. But hardly
had Jordan explained his mission when the lieutenant became highly excited. He said he had
seen this disaster coming. He remarked that any man who brings up his children in excessive
ease must not be surprised if they come to a bad end. He remarked, too, that no power on earth
could persuade him to invest one penny in Jordan’s case.

Jordan went away speechless.

The second friend he appealed to was his acquaintance of long standing, Judge Rübsam. From
him he heard a voluble flow of words dealing with regrets, expressions of disgust, one lament
after the other, a jeremiade on hard times, maledictions hurled at dilatory creditors, infinite
consolation—and empty advice. He assured Jordan that yesterday he had almost the requisite
sum in cash, and that he might have it again some time next month, but to-day—ah, to-day his
taxes were due, and so on, and so on.

Oppressed by the weight of this unexpected humiliation, he went to the third friend, a merchant
by the name of Hornbusch, to whom he had once rendered invaluable assistance. Herr Hornbusch
had forgotten all about this, though he had not forgotten that he had vainly sounded in Jordan’s
ears a warning against the ever-increasing flippancy of young Benno. He told Jordan that he
himself was just then in urgent need of money, that he had only last month been obliged to
sacrifice a mortgage, and that his wife had pawned her diamonds.

Thus it went with the fourth friend, an architect who had told him once that he would sacrifice
money and reputation for him if he ever got into trouble. And it was the same story with the
fifth and sixth and seventh. With a heart as heavy as lead, Jordan decided to take the last
desperate step: He went to Herr Diruf himself. He asked for a three days’ extension of time.
Diruf sat inapproachable at his desk. He was smoking a big thick Havana cigar, his solitaire
threw off its blinding fireworks, he smiled a cold, tired smile and shook his head in astonishment.

When Jordan came home that evening he found Daniel and Gertrude in the living room. Gertrude
went up to him to support him; then she brought him a glass of wine as a stimulant: he had
not eaten anything since breakfast.

“Where is Eleanore?” he murmured, but seemed to take no interest in the reply to his question.
He fell down on a chair, and buried his face in his hands.

Gertrude, who saw his strength leaving him as the light dies out of a slowly melting candle,
became dizzy with compassion. Her last hope was in Eleanore, who had left at five o’clock simply
because she found it intolerable to sit around, hour after hour, doing nothing but waiting
for the return of her father. At every sound that could be heard in the house, Gertrude pricked
up her ears in eager expectancy.

Daniel stood by the window, and looked out across the deserted square into the dull red glow
of the setting sun.

It struck seven, then half past seven, eight, and Eleanore had not returned. Daniel began to
pace back and forth through the room; he was nervous. If his foot chanced to strike against
a chair, Gertrude shuddered.

Shortly after eight, steps were heard outside. The key rattled in the front gate, the room
door opened, and in came Eleanore—and Philippina Schimmelweis.

                                  VII

Everybody looked at Philippina; even Jordan himself honoured her with a faint glance. Daniel
and Gertrude were amazed. Daniel did not recognise his cousin; he knew nothing about her; he
had seen her but once, and then he was a mere child. He did not know who this repulsive-looking
individual was, and demanded that Eleanore give him an explanation. As he did this, he raised
his eyebrows.

Eleanore was the only one Philippina looked at in a kindly way; in Philippina’s own face there
was an expression of curiosity.

Philippina’s whole bearing had something of the monstrous about it. Even her dress was picturesque,
adventuresome. Her great brown straw hat, with the ribbon sticking straight up in the air,
was shoved on to the back of her head so as not to spoil the effect of the fashionable bangs
that hung down over her forehead. Her loud, checkered dress was strapped about her waist with
a cloth belt so tightly that the contour of her fat body was made to look positively ridiculous:
she resembled a gigantic hour glass. In her rough-cut features there was an element of lurking
malevolence.

After a few minutes of painful stillness she walked up to Daniel, and plucked him by the coat-sleeve:
“Eh, you don’t know who I am?” she asked, and her squinty eyes shone on him with enigmatic
savagery: “I am Philippina; you know, Philippina Schimmelweis.”

Daniel stepped back from her: “Well, what of it?” he asked, wrinkling his brow.

She followed him, took him by the coat-sleeve again, and led him over into one corner: “Listen,
Daniel,” she stammered, “my father—he must give you all the money you need. For years ago your
father gave him all the money he had, and told him to keep it for you. Do you understand? I
happened to hear about it one time when my father was talking about it to my mother. It was
a good seven years ago, but I made a note of it. My father spent the money on himself; he thinks
he can keep it. Go to him, and tell him what you want; tell him how much you want, and then
go help these people here. But you must not give me away; if you do they’ll kill me. Do you
understand? You won’t say a word about it, will you?”

“Is that true?” Daniel managed to say in reply, as a feeling of unspeakable anger struggled
with one of indescribable disgust.

“It is true, Daniel, every word of it; ’pon my soul and honour,” replied Philippina; “just
go, and you’ll see that I have told you the truth.”

During the conversation of the two, of which she could hardly hear a single syllable, Eleanore
never took her eyes off them.

                                 VIII

Since the day Philippina had made her little brother Markus a cripple for life, she had been
an outcast in the home of her parents.

To be sure, she had had no great abundance of kindness and cheerfulness before the accident
took place. But since that time the barbarous castigation of her father had beclouded and besmirched
her very soul. From her twelfth year on, her mind was ruled exclusively by hate.

Hatred aroused her; it gave birth to thoughts and plans in her; it endowed her with strength
of will and audacity; and it matured her before her time.

She hated her father, her mother, her brothers.

She hated the house with all its rooms; she hated the bed in which she slept, the table at
which she ate. She hated the people who came to see her parents, the customers who came into
the shop, the loafers who gathered about the window, the tall lanky Zwanziger, the books and
the magazines.

But the day she overheard her father and mother talking about that money, a second power had
joined the ranks of hate in her benighted, abandoned soul. With her brain on fire she stood
behind the door, and heard that she was to be married to Daniel. This remark had filled the
then thirteen-year-old girl with all the savage instincts of a bound and fettered woman, with
all the crabbedness of an unimaginative person of her standing.

In her father’s remark she did not see merely a more or less carefully outlined plan; she heard
a message from Fate itself; and from that time on she lived with an idea that brought light
and purpose into her daily existence.

Shortly after his arrival in Nuremberg, she saw Daniel for the first time as he was standing
by a booth in the market place on Schütt Island. Her father had pointed him out to her. She
knew that he wished to become a musician; this made no special impression on her. She knew
that he was having a hard time of it; this filled her neither with sympathy nor regret. When
she later on saw him in the concert hall, he was already her promised spouse; he belonged to
her. To capture him, to get him into her power, it made no difference how, was her unchanging
aspiration, in which there was a bizarre mixture of bestiality and insanity.

The thieving, which she decided upon at once and practised with perfect regularity, netted
her in the course of time a handsome sum. She did not become bolder and bolder as she continued
her evil practices, but, unlike thieves generally, she grew to be more and more cautious. She
acquired in time remarkable skill at showing an outwardly honest face. Indeed she became such
an adept at dissimulation that the suspicion of even Jason Philip, aroused as it had been during
the course of a careful investigation, was dispelled by her behaviour.

Her plan was to gain a goodly measure of independence through the money she had stolen. For
she always felt convinced that the day would come when her parents would debar her from their
home. She was convinced that her father and mother were merely waiting for some plausible excuse
to rid themselves of her for good and all.

Moreover, she had two pronounced passions: one for candy and one for flashy ribbons.

The candy she always bought in the evening. She would slip into the shop of Herr Degen, and,
with her greedy eyes opened as wide as possible, buy twenty pfennigs’ worth of sweets, at which
she would nibble until she went to bed.

The ribbons she sewed together into sashes, which she wore on her hat or around her neck or
on her dress. The gaudier the colour the better she liked it. If her mother asked her where
she got the ribbons she was forced to lie. Although she had no girl friends, as a matter of
fact no friends of any kind, she would say that this or that girl had given them to her. When
her wealth became too conspicuous, she would leave the house and not tie her sashes about her
until she had reached some unlighted gateway or dark corner.

She never dared go to the attic more than once a week; she did this when her brothers were
at school and her parents in the shop. The fear lest some one find her out and take her stolen
riches from her made her more and more uneasy, lending to her face an expression of virulent
distrust.

She would go up the thirteen steps from the landing to the attic with trembling feet. The fact
that there were exactly thirteen was the first thing that awakened her superstition. As the
months crept on, she resigned to this superstition with the abandon of an inveterate voluptuary.
If she chanced to put her left foot first on the bottom step and not to notice it until she
was half way up, she would turn around, come down, and relinquish the pleasure of seeing her
treasures for the rest of that week.

She was afraid of ghosts, witches, and magicians; if a cat ran across the street in front of
her, she turned as white as chalk.

Theresa did not keep a maid; Philippina helped in the kitchen; this ruined her complexion,
and made her skin rough and horny. Frequently she got out of washing dishes by simply running
away. On these occasions Theresa would create such an uproar that the neighbours would come
to the window and look out. Philippina avenged herself by purposely ruining the sheets, towels,
and shirts that lay in the clothes basket. When in this mood and at this business, she made
use of a regular oath that she herself had formulated: it consisted of sentences that sounded
most impressive, though they had no meaning.

She cherished the odd delusion that it lay in her power to bring misfortune to other people.
The time Jason Philip complained of poor business she felt an infernal sense of satisfaction.
His change of political views had driven away his old customers, and the new ones had no confidence
in him. He had to go in for the publication of dubious works, if he wished to do any business
at all. The result of this was that when people passed by the Schimmelweis bookshop, they stopped
before the window, looked at his latest output, and smiled contemptuously. The workman’s insurance
no longer paid as it used to, for the credit of the Prudentia and its agents had suffered a
violent setback.

The rise and fall in bourgeois life follows a well established law. In a single day the honesty
and diligence of one man, the tricks and frauds of another, grow stale, antiquated. Thus Jordan’s
affairs started on the down grade, and Jason Philip’s likewise.

Philippina ascribed their failure to the quiet influence of her destructive work. Every bit
of misfortune in the life of her father loosened by that much the chain that prevented her
from complete freedom of movement. In her most infamous hours she would dream of the hunger
and distress, bankruptcy and despair of her people. Once this state of affairs had been realised,
she would no longer have to play the rôle of Cinderella; she would no longer have to be the
first one up in the morning; she would no longer have to chop wood, and polish her brothers’
boots: she would have a fair field and no favours in her campaign to capture Daniel.

                                  IX

At times she thought she could simply go to him and stay with him. At times she felt that he
would come and get her. One thing or the other had to take place, she thought.

One Sunday afternoon—it chanced to be her eighteenth birthday—a junior agent of Jason Philip,
a fellow by the name of Pfefferkorn, came to the house, and in the course of the conversation
remarked rather casually that the elder of the Jordan sisters was engaged to the musician Nothafft,
that the engagement had been kept secret for a while, but that the wedding was to take place
in the immediate future.

“By the way, I hear that the musician is your nephew,” said Pfefferkorn at the close of his report.

Jason Philip cast a gloomy look into space, while Theresa, then sipping her chicory coffee,
set her cup on the table, and looked at the man with scornful contempt.

Philippina broke out in a laughter that went through them like a knife. Then she ran from the
room, and banged the door behind her. “She seems a bit deranged,” murmured Jason Philip angrily.

Then came that June night on which she did not come home at all. Jason Philip raged and howled
when she returned the next morning; but she was silent. He locked her up in the cellar for
sixteen hours; but she was silent.

After this she did not leave the house for months at a time; she did not wash or comb her hair;
she sat crouched up in the kitchen with her long, dishevelled, unwashed hair falling in loose
locks down over her neck and shoulders.

A feeling of consuming vengeance seethed in her heart; the patience she was forced to practise,
much against her will, petrified in time into a mien of hypocritic sottishness.

Suddenly she took to dressing up again and sauntering through the streets in the afternoon.
Her loud ribbons awakened the mocking laughter of young and old.

She had learned that Eleanore Jordan was attending the lectures in the Cultural Club. She went
too; she always crowded up close to Eleanore, but she could not attract her attention. One
time she sat right next to Eleanore. A strolling pastor delivered a lecture on cremation. Philippina
took out her handkerchief, and pressed it to her eyes as though she were weeping. Eleanore,
somewhat concerned, turned to her, and asked her what was the matter. She said that it was
all so sad what the old gentleman was saying. Eleanore was surprised, for nothing the speaker
had said was sad or in any way likely to bring tears to the eyes of his auditors.

At the end of the lecture she left the hall with Eleanore. When the ugly, disagreeable creature
told her of the wretchedness of her life, how she was abused by her parents and brothers, and
that there was not a soul in the world who cared for her, Eleanore was moved. The fact that
Philippina was Daniel’s blood cousin made her forget the aversion she felt, and drew from her
a promise to go walking with her on certain days.

Eleanore kept her promise. She was not in the least disconcerted by the queer looks cast at
her by the people they met. With perfect composure she walked along by the side of this strapping,
quackish young woman dressed in the oddest garments known to the art of dress-making. At first
they strolled in broad daylight through the park adjoining the city moat. Later Eleanore arranged
to have the walks, which were to take place two or three times a month, postponed until after
sunset.

This was quite agreeable to Philippina. She threw out a hint every now and then that there
was a mysterious feud between the Schimmelweis family and the Nothaffts, and implored Eleanore
never to let Daniel know that she was taking these walks with her. It was painful to Eleanore
to have Philippina make such requests of her. The lurking manner in which she would turn the
conversation to the affairs of Daniel and Gertrude had an element of offensive intrusiveness
in it. She wanted to know first this, then that. She even had the impudence to ask about Gertrude’s
dowry; and finally she requested that Eleanore bring her sister along some time when they went
walking.

Eleanore came to have a feeling of horror at the sight or thought of Philippina; she was dismayed
too when, despite the darkness, she noticed the shrewish look of incorrigible wickedness in
Philippina’s face. An ineluctable voice put her on her guard. In so far as she could do it
without grievously offending Philippina, she withdrew from further association with her. And
even if she had not promised her absolute silence, a feeling half of fear and half of shame
would have prevented her from ever mentioning Philippina’s name in Daniel’s presence.

She never once suspected that Philippina was spying on her. Philippina soon found out just
when, how often, and where Daniel and Eleanore met; and wherever they went, she followed at
a safe distance behind them. Why she did this she really did not know; something forced her
to do it.

What she had succeeded in doing with Eleanore she now wished to do with Gertrude. She would
bob up all of a sudden in the butcher shop, at the vegetable market, in the dairy, anywhere,
stare at Gertrude, act as though she were intensely interested in something, and make some
such remarks as: “Lord, but beans are dear this year”; or “That is a nasty wind, it is enough
to give you the colic.” But Gertrude was far too lost to the world and much too sensitive about
coming in contact with strangers to pay any attention to her awkward attempts at approach.

“Just wait,” thought Philippina, enraged, “the penalty of your arrogance will some day descend
upon your head.”

                                   X

On that Monday so fatal for the Jordan family, Philippina had another violent quarrel with
her mother. Theresa was still shrieking, when Jason Philip came up from the shop to know what
could be wrong.

“Don’t ask,” cried Theresa at the top of her shrill voice, “go teach your daughter some manners.
The wench is going to end up in jail; that’s what I prophesy.”

Philippina made a wry face. Jason Philip, however, was little inclined to play the rôle of
an avenging power: he had something new on the string; his face was beaming.

“I met Hornbusch,” he said, turning to Theresa, “you know him, firm of Hornbusch heirs, bloody
rich they are, and the man tells me that young Jordan has embezzled some money from the Prudentia
and left the country. I went at once to the Prudentia, and Zittel told me the whole story,
just as I had heard it. It is almost four thousand marks! Jordan has been requested to make
good the deficit; but he hasn’t a penny to his name and is in a mighty tight place, for Diruf
is threatening to send him to jail. You know, Diruf is hard-boiled in matters of this kind.
What do you think of that?”

Theresa wrapped her hands in her apron, and looked at Jason Philip out of the corner of her
eye. She guessed at once the cause of his joy, and hung her head in silence.

Jason Philip smirked to himself. Leaning up against the Dutch tiles of the stove, he began
to whistle in a happy-go-lucky mood. It was the “Marseillaise.” He whistled it partly out of
forgetfulness and partly from force of habit.

He had not noticed how Philippina had listened to every syllable that fell from his lips; how
she was holding her breath; that her features were lighted up from within by a terrible flame
of fire. He did notice, however, that she got up at the close of his remarks and left the room
with rustling steps.

Five minutes later she was standing before Jordan’s house. She sent a small boy in with the
request that Fräulein Eleanore come down at once. The boy came back, and said that Fräulein
Eleanore was not at home. She took her position by the front gate, and waited.

                                  XI

Driven by the torment of her soul, Eleanore had gone to Martha Rübsam’s only to hear that her
father had been there three hours earlier. From the confused and embarrassed conduct of her
friend she learned that her father had made a request of Judge Rübsam, and a fruitless one at that.

Then she stood for a while on one of the leading streets, and stared in bewilderment at the
throngs of people surging by. It was all so cruelly real.

She thought of whom she might go to next. A wave of purple flashed across her face as she thought
of Eberhard. Involuntarily she made a passionate, deprecating gesture, as if she were saying:
No, no, not to him! The first ray of this hope was also the last. Her conscience struck her;
but she was helpless. Here was a feeling impervious to reason; armed ten times over against
encouragement. Anyhow, he was not at home. She thought of this with a sigh of relief.

Would Daniel go to the Baroness? No; that could not be thought of for a minute.

She could no longer endure the city nor the people in it. She walked through the park out into
the country. She could not stand the sight of the sky or the distant views; she turned around.
She came back to The Füll, entered the Carovius house, and rang Frau Benda’s bell. She knew
the old lady was away, and yet, as if quite beside herself, she rang four times. If Benda would
only come; if the good friend were only sitting in his room and could come to the door.

But there was not a stir. From the first floor the sounds of a piano floated out the window;
it was being played in full chords. Down in the court Cæsar was howling.

She started back home with beating heart. At the front gate she saw Philippina.

“I have heard all about your misfortune,” said Philippina in her shrill voice. “Nobody can
help you but me.”

“You? You can help?” stammered Eleanore. The whole square began to move, it seemed, before her.

“Word of honour—I can. I must simply have a talk with Daniel first. Let’s lose no time. Is
he upstairs?”

“I think he is. If not, I will get him.”

“Let’s go up, then.”

They went up the stairs.

                                  XII

Jason Philip had been invited to a sociable evening in the Shufflers’ Club. He was now enjoying
his siesta after his banquet by reading an editorial in the Kurier. One of Bismarck’s addresses
had been so humorously commented on that every now and then Jason Philip emitted a malevolent
snarl of applause.

He had brought a lemon along home with him; it was lying on a plate before him, sliced and
covered with sugar. From time to time he would reach over, take a piece and stick it in his
mouth. He smacked his tongue with the display of much ceremony of his kind, and licked his
lips after swallowing a piece. His two sons gaped at his hand with greedy eyes and likewise
licked their lips.

Willibald was groaning over an algebraic equation. In his pale, pimpled face were traces of
incapability and bad humour. Markus, owing to his physical defect, was not allowed to study
by artificial light. He helped his mother shell the peas, and in order to make her angry at
Philippina, kept making mean remarks about her staying out so long.

Just as the last piece of the lemon disappeared behind Jason Philip’s moustache, the door bell
rang.

“There is a man out there,” said Markus, who had gone to the door and was now standing on the
threshold, stupidly staring with his one remaining eye.

Jason Philip stretched his neck. Then he got up. He had recognised Daniel standing in the half-lighted
hall.

“I have something to say to you,” said Daniel, as he entered the room. His eyes gazed on the
walls and at the few cheap, ugly, banal objects that hung on them: a newspaper-holder with
embroidered ribbons; a corner table on which stood a beer mug representing the fat body of
a monk; an old chromic print showing a volunteer taking leave of his big family as he starts
for the front. These things appealed to Daniel somewhat as an irrational dream. Then, taking
a deep breath, he fixed his eyes on Jason Philip. In his mind’s eye he looked back over many
years; he saw himself standing at the fountain in Eschenbach. Round about him glistened the
stones and cross beams of the houses. Jason Philip was hurrying by at a timid distance. There
was bitterness in his face: he seemed to be fleeing from the world, the sun, men, and music.

“I have something to say to you,” he repeated.

Theresa felt that the worst of her forebodings were about to be fulfilled. With trembling knees
she arose. She did not dare turn her eyes toward the place in the room where Daniel was standing.
She did not see, she merely sensed Jason Philip as he beckoned to her and his sons to leave
the room. She took Markus by the hand and Willibald by the coat-sleeve, and marched out between
the two.

“What’s the news?” asked Jason Philip, as he crossed his arms and looked at the pile of beans
on the table. “You have a—what shall I say?—a very impulsive way about you. It is a way that
reminds me of the fact that we have a law in this country against disturbing the peace of a
private family. Your stocks must have gone to the very top of the market recently. Well, tell
me, what do you want?”

He cleared his throat, and beat a tattoo on the elbows of his crossed arms with his fingers.

Daniel felt that his peace was leaving him; his own arm seemed to him like a shot-gun; it itched.
But thus far he could not say a thing. The question he had in mind to put to Jason Philip was
of such tremendous import that he could not suppress his fear that he might make a mistake
or become too hasty.

“Where is the money my father gave you?” came the words at last, rolling from his lips in a
tone of muffled sullenness.

The colour left Jason Philip’s face; his arms fell down by his side.

“The money? Where it’s gone to? That your father—?” He stuttered in confusion. He wanted to
gain time; he wanted to think over very carefully what he should say and what he could conceal.
He cast one glance at Daniel, and saw that it was not possible to expect mercy from him. He
was afraid of Daniel’s bold, lean, sinewy face.

He nearly burst with anger at the thought that this young man, for whom he, Jason Philip, was
once the highest authority, should have the unmitigated audacity to call him to account. In
this whole situation he pictured himself as the immaculate man of honour that he wished he
was and thought he was in the eyes of his fellow citizens. At the same time he was nearly stifled
with fear lest he lose the money which he had long since accustomed himself to regard as his
own, with which he had worked and speculated, and which by this time was as much a part of
his very being as his own house, his business, his projects. He buried his hands in his pockets
and snorted. His cowardly dread of the consequences of fraud forced him into a half confession
of fraud, but in his words lay the feverish pettifogging of the frenzied financier who fights
for Mammon even unto raging and despair.

“The money is here; of course it is. Where did you think it was? My books will show exactly
how much of it has found its way over to Eschenbach in the shape of interest and loans. My
books are open to inspection; the accounts have been kept right up to this very day. I have
made considerable progress in life. A man who has lived as I have lived does not need to fear
a living soul. Do you imagine for a minute that Jason Philip Schimmelweis can be frightened
by a little thing like this? No, no, it will take more of a man than you to do that. Who are
you anyhow? What office do you hold? What authority have you? With what right do you come rushing
into the four walls of my home? Do you perhaps imagine that your artistic skill invests you
with special privileges? I don’t give a tinker’s damn for your art. The whole rubbish is hardly
worth spitting on. Music? Idiocy. Who needs it? Any man with the least vestige of self-respect
never has anything to do with music except on holidays and when the day’s work is done. No,
no, you can’t impress me with your music. You’re not quite sane! And if you think that you
are going to get any money out of me, you are making the mistake of your life. It is to laugh.
If a man wants money from me, he has to come to me at least with a decent hair-cut and show
me at least a little respect. He can’t come running up like a kid on the street who says: ‘Mumma,
gif me a shent; I want to buy some tandy.’ No, no, son, you can’t get anything out of me that way.”

The smile that appeared on Daniel’s face filled Jason Philip with mortal terror. He stopped
his talk with incriminating suddenness. He decided to hold in and to promise Daniel a small
payment. He hoped that by handing over a few hundred marks he could assure himself the desired
peace of mind.

But Daniel never felt so certain of himself in his life. He thought of the hardships he had
had to endure, and his heart seemed as if it were on fire. At the same time he was ashamed
of this man and disgusted with him.

He said quietly and firmly: “I must have three thousand seven hundred marks by ten o’clock
to-morrow morning. It is a question of saving an honourable and upright family from ruin. If
this sum is handed over to me promptly, I will waive all rights to the balance that is due
me, in writing. The receipt will be filled out ready for delivery in my house. If the money
is not in my hands by the stipulated time, we will meet each other in another place and in
the presence of people who will impress you.”

He turned to go.

Jason Philip’s mouth opened wide, and he pressed his fist to the hole made thereby. “Three
thousand seven hundred marks?” he roared. “The man is crazy. Completely crazy is the man. Man,
man, you’re crazy,” he cried in order to get Daniel to stop. “Are you crazy, man? Do you want
to ruin me? Don’t you hear, you damned man?”

Daniel looked at Jason Philip with a shudder. The door to the adjoining room sprang open, and
Theresa rushed in. Her face was ashen pale; there were just two little round red spots on her
cheek bones. “You are going to get that money, Daniel,” she howled hysterically, “or I am going
to jump into the Pegnitz, I’ll jump into the Pegnitz and drown myself.”

“Woman, you ...” he gnashed his teeth, and seized her by the shoulder.

She sank down on a chair, and, seizing her hair, continued: “He is everywhere, and wherever
he is, our dear Gottfried, he is looking at me. He stands before the clothes press, at the
cupboard, by my bedside, nods, exhorts, raises his finger, finds no peace in his grave, and
does not let me sleep; he has not let me sleep all these years.”

“Now listen, you had better think of your children,” snapped Jason Philip.

Theresa let her hands fall in her lap, and looked down at the floor: “All that nice money,
that nice money,” she cried. Then again, this time with a face distorted beyond easy recognition
and at the top of her voice: “But you’ll get it, Daniel; I’ll see to it that you get it: I’ll
bring it to you myself.” Then again, in a gentle voice of acute lamentation: “All that nice money.”

Daniel was almost convulsed. It seemed to him as if he had never rightly understood the word
money before, as if the meaning of money had never been made clear to him until he heard Theresa
say it.

“To-morrow morning at ten o’clock,” he said.

Theresa nodded her head in silence, and raised her hands with outstretched fingers as if to
protect herself from Jason Philip. Willibald and Markus had crept under the door. The gate
must not have been closed, for just then Philippina came in. She had come over with Daniel,
but had remained outside on the street. She could not wait any longer; she was too anxious
to see the consequences of her betrayal.

She looked around with affected embarrassment. Was it merely the sight of her that aroused
Jason Philip’s wrath? Was it the half-cowardly, half-cynical smile that played around her lips?
Or was it the cumulative effect of blind anger, long pent up and eager to be discharged, that
made Jason Philip act as he did? Or did he have a vague suspicion of what Philippina had done?
Suffice it to say, he leapt up to her and struck her in the face with his fist.

She never moved a muscle.

Indignant at the rudeness of his conduct, Daniel stepped between Jason Philip and his daughter.
But the venomous scorn in the girl’s eyes stifled his sympathy; he turned to the door, and
went away in silence.

“All that nice money,” murmured Theresa.

                                 XIII

When Daniel told the Jordans that the money would be there the next morning, Jordan looked
at him first unbelievingly, and then wept like a child.

Eleanore reached Daniel both her hands without saying a word. Gertrude, who was lying on the
sofa, straightened up, smiled gently, and then lay down again. Daniel asked her what was the
matter. Eleanore answered for her, saying that she had not felt well since some time in the
afternoon. “She must go to bed, she is tired,” added Eleanore.

“Well, come then,” said Daniel, and helped Gertrude to get up. But her legs were without strength;
she could not walk. She looked first at Daniel and then at Eleanore; she was plainly worried
about something.

“You won’t care, will you, Father, if I go home with them?” asked Eleanore in a tone of flattery.

“No, go, child,” said Jordan, “it will do me good to be alone for a few minutes.”

Daniel and Eleanore took Gertrude between them. At the second landing in their apartment, Daniel
took Gertrude in his arms, and carried her into the bedroom. She did not want him to help her
take off her clothes; she sent him out of the room. A cup of warm milk was all she said she wanted.

“There is no milk there,” said Eleanore to Daniel, as she entered the living room. He stopped
suddenly, and looked at her as if he had awakened from a fleeting dream: “I’ll run down to
Tetzel Street and get a half a litre,” said Eleanore. “I’ll leave the hall door open, so that
Gertrude will not be frightened when I come in.”

She had already hastened out; but all of a sudden she turned around, and said with joyful gratitude,
her blue eyes swimming in the tears of a full soul: “You dear man.”

His face took on a scowl.

There was a fearful regularity in his walking back and forth. The chains of the hanging lamp
shook. The flame sent forth a thin column of smoke; he did not notice it. “How long will she
be gone?” he thought in his unconscious, drunken impatience. He felt terribly deserted.

He stepped out into the hall, and listened. There hovered before him in the darkness the face
of Philippina. She showed the same scornful immobility that she showed when her father struck
her in the face. He stepped to the railing, and sat down on the top step; a fit at once of
weakness and aimless defiance came over him. He buried his face in his hands; he could still
hear Theresa saying, “All that nice money.”

There were shadows everywhere; there was nothing but night and shadows.

Eleanore, light-hearted and light-footed, returned at last. When she saw him, she stopped.
He arose, and stretched out his arms as if to take the milk bottle. That is the way she interpreted
his gesture, and handed it to him in surprise. He, however, set it down on the landing beside
him. The light from the living room shone on it and made it look sparkling white. Then he drew
Eleanore to him, threw his arms around her, and kissed her on the mouth.

Merely a creature of man, only a woman, nothing but heart and breath, all longing and forgetting,
forgetting for just one moment, finding herself for a moment, knowing her own self for a moment—she
pressed close up to him. But her hands were folded between her breast and his, and thus separated
their bodies.

Then she broke away from him, wrung her hands, looked up at him, pressed close up to him again,
wrung her hands again—it was all done in absolute silence and with an almost terrible grace
and loveliness.

Everything was now entirely different from what it had been, or what she had formerly imagined
it to be; there were depths to everything now. She lost herself; she ceased to exist for a
moment; darkness enveloped her much-disciplined heart; she entered upon a second existence,
an existence that had no similarity with the first.

To this existence she was now bound; she had succumbed to it: the law of nature had gone into
effect. But the glass case had been shattered; it was in pieces. She stood there unprotected,
even exposed, so to speak, to men, no longer immune to their glances, an accessible prey to
their touch.

She went into the kitchen, and heated the milk. Daniel returned to the living room. His veins
were burning, his heart was hammering. He had no sense of appreciation of the time that had
passed. When Eleanore came into the room, he began to tremble.

She came up to him, and spoke to him in passionate sadness: “Have you heard about Gertrude?
Don’t you know, really? She is with child—your wife.”

“I did not know it,” whispered Daniel. “Did she tell you?”

“Yes, just now.”

                        TRES FACIUNT COLLEGIUM

                                   I

The habitués of the reserved table at the Crocodile were all reasonably well informed of the
events that had recently taken place in the homes of Inspector Jordan and Jason Philip Schimmelweis.
Details were mentioned that would make it seem probable that the cracks in the walls and the
key-holes of both houses had been entertaining eavesdroppers.

Some refused to believe that Jason Philip had made restitution for the money young Jordan had
embezzled. For, said Degen, the baker, Schimmelweis is a hard-fisted fellow, and whoever would
try to get money out of him would have to be in the possession of extraordinary shrewdness.

“But he has already paid it,” said Gründlich, the watchmaker. He knew he had; he knew that
the wife of the bookseller had gone over to Nothafft’s on Tuesday afternoon; that she had a
heap of silver in a bag; and that when she came back home she took to bed, and had been ill
ever since.

Kitzler, the assistant postmaster, felt there was something wrong here; and if there was not,
you would simply have to assume that Nothafft, the musician, was a dangerous citizen, who had
somehow managed to place the breast of his uncle vis-à-vis a revolver.

“And you know, Nothafft is to be made Kapellmeister at the City Theatre,” remarked the editor
Weibezahl, the latest member of the round table. “His appointment is to be made public in a
few days.”

“What! Kapellmeister! You don’t say so! That will make Andreas Döderlein the saddest man in
ten states.”

Herr Carovius, whose mouth was just then hanging on his beer glass, laughed so heartily that
the beer went down his Sunday throat; he was seized with a coughing spell. Herr Korn slapped
him on the back.

It was a shame that such a bad actor as Nothafft had to be endured in the midst of people who
lived peaceful and law-abiding lives. This lament came from Herr Kleinlein, who had been circuit
judge now for some time. He was anxious to know whether all the tales that were circulating
concerning Nothafft were true.

Well, he was told, a great many things are said about Nothafft, but it is difficult to get
at the truth. They appealed to the apothecary Pflaum, on the ground that his assistant knew
the musician and might be able to give them some definite information.

Herr Pflaum took on an air as if he knew a great deal but was under obligations not to tell.
Yes, yes, he said rather perfunctorily, he had heard that some one had said that Nothafft was
running a pretty questionable domestic establishment; that he had a rather unsavoury past;
and that there was some talk about his neglecting his wife.

The deuce you say! Why, they were married only a short while ago. Yes, but there was a rumour
to the effect that there was a woman in the case. Who could it be? Ahem! Well-ah, it would
be a good idea to be cautious about mentioning names. Good Lord, why cautious? Why not straight
out with the information any one chanced to be fortunate enough to have? Is it not a question
of protecting one’s own wife and daughters?

And so this slanderous babble rattled on. There was something unfathomable in their hatred
of the musician. They were just as agreed on this point as they would have been if Daniel had
broken open their strong boxes, smashed their windows, and betrayed their honour and dignity
to public ridicule.

They did not know what they should do about him. They passed by him as one would pass by a
bomb that might or might not explode.

                                  II

When Herr Carovius was alone, he picked up the paper, and read the account of a mine explosion
in Silesia. The number of killed satisfied him. The description of the women as they stood
at the top of the shaft, wept, wrung their hands, and called out the names of their husbands,
filled him with the same agreeable sensation that he experienced when he listened to the melancholy
finale of a Chopin nocturne.

But he could not forget the expression on Herr Pflaum’s face when he told how Nothafft was
neglecting his wife. It had been the expression that comes out, so to speak, from between the
curtains of a sleeping room: something was up, make no mistake, something was going on.

For quite a while Herr Carovius had harboured the suspicion that there was something wrong.
Twice he had met Daniel and Eleanore walking along the street in the twilight, talking to each
other in a very mysterious way. Things were going on behind Herr Carovius’s back which he could
not afford to overlook.

Since the day Eleanore had disentangled the cord of his nose glasses from the button of his
top coat, the picture of the young girl had been indelibly stamped on his mind. He could still
see the beautiful curvature of her young bosom as she raised her arm.

A year and a half after this incident, Herr Carovius was going through some old papers. He
chanced upon an unfinished letter which Eberhard von Auffenberg had written to Eleanore but
had never posted. Eberhard had come to Nuremberg at the time to transact some business connected
with the negotiation of a new loan; he had left his hotel, and Herr Carovius had had to wait
for him a long while. This time he had spent in looking over the unsealed documents of the
incautious young Baron.

Then it was that he discovered the letter. What words! And oh, the passion! Herr Carovius would
never have believed that the reserved misanthrope was capable of such a display of emotion.
He felt that Eberhard had disclosed to him the most secret chambers of his heart. He was terrified
at the voluptuousness revealed to him by the unveiling of the mystery of his soul. They are
human beings after all, those members of the nobility, he exclaimed with a feeling of personal
triumph. They throw themselves away; they meet some slippery imp, and fall; they lose control
of themselves as soon as they hear a skirt rustle.

But what concerned the Baron in this case concerned also Herr Carovius. A passion that had
taken possession of the Baron had to be guarded, studied, and eventually shared by Herr Carovius
himself.

Herr Carovius’s loneliness had gradually robbed him of his equanimity. Suppressed impulses
were stifling his mind with the luxuriant growths of a vivid and vicious imagination. The adventures
into which he had voluntarily plunged in order to make sure of his control over Eberhard had
almost ruined him. The net he had spread for the helplessly fluttering bird now held him himself
entangled in its meshes. The world to him was a body full of wounds on which he was battening
his Neronic lusts. But it was at the same time a tapestry, with bright coloured pictures which
could be made living and real by a magic formula, and this formula he had not yet been able
to discover.

At the insinuations of the apothecary his fancy took on new life: he was not a man in whose
soul old emotions died out; his lusts never became extinct. Lying on the sofa, taking his midday
siesta, he would picture the figure of Eleanore dancing around him in diminutive form. When
he sat at the piano and played an étude, he imagined he saw Daniel standing beside him criticising
his technique—and doing it with much show of arrogance. When he went out of evenings, he saw
Nothafft displayed on all the signs, while every demi-monde bore Eleanore’s features.

It seemed to him in time that Eleanore Jordan was his property; that he had a right to her.
His life, he felt, was full of lamentable privations: other people had everything, he had nothing.
Others committed crimes; all he could do was to make note of the crimes. And no man could become
either satiated or rich from merely taking the criminal incidents of other people’s lives into
account.

At midnight he put on his sleeping gown, took a seat before the mirror, and read until break
of day a novel in which a man fifty years old has a secret and successful love affair with
a young woman. As he read this novel he knew that something was going on. And he knew that
out there in a certain house on Ægydius Place something was also going on. Make no mistake,
something was up.

He saw trysts on unlighted stairways. He saw people coming to mutual understandings by a certain
pressure of the hand and adulterous signals. That is the way they did it; that is the way Benda
and Marguerite had done it. His old hate was revived. He transferred his hate, but also his
hope, to music. Through music he was to build a bridge to Daniel and Eleanore. He wanted to
give them the advantage of his insight, his tricks, his experience, simply in order that he
might be on hand when they committed the gruesome deed; so that he might not be cut off from
them by an impenetrable wall and be tortured in consequence by an incorporeal jealousy; he
wanted to be one with them, to feast his eye and reach forth his empty, senescent hand.

“I am,” he said to himself, “of the same flesh and blood as that man; in me too there is Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart. I have, to be sure,” he said to himself, “despised women, for they are despicable.
But let some woman come forward and show me that she is fit for anything more than to increase
by two or three the number of idiots with which the world is already overcrowded, and I will
do penance, whole and complete, and then offer her my services as a knight.”

He no longer slept or ate; nor could he do anything that was in any way rational. In a belated
sexual outburst, a second puberty, his imagination became inflamed by a picture which he adorned
with all the perfections of both soul and body.

He heard that one of Daniel’s works was to be played before invited guests at the home of Baroness
von Auffenberg. He wired to Eberhard, and asked him to get him an invitation. The reply was
a negative one. In his rage he could have murdered the messenger boy. He then wrote to Daniel,
and, boasting of what he had already done for him, begged Daniel to see to it that he was among
the guests at the recital. He received a printed card from the Baroness, on which she had expressed
the hope that she might be able to greet him on a certain day.

He was in the seventh heaven. He decided to pay Daniel a visit, and to thank him for his kindness.

                                  III

“The only thing to do is to leave the city, to go far, far away from here,” thought Eleanore,
on that evening that was so different from any other evening of her life.

While she was combing her hair, she was tempted to take the scissors and cut it off just to
make herself ugly. In the night she went to the window to look for the stars. If it only had
not happened, if it only were a dream, a voice within her cried.

As soon as it turned grey in the morning, she got up. She hastened through the deserted streets,
just as she had done yesterday, out to the suburbs. But everything was different. Tree and
bush looked down upon her with stern reproachfulness. The mists hung low; but the hazy grey
cold of the early morning was like a bath to her. Later the sun broke through; primroses glistened
with gold on the meadow. If it could only have been a dream, she thought in silence.

When she came home, her father had already received the news about the money: it had been paid
to Diruf; Daniel had taken it to him.

Jordan remained in his room the whole day. And on the following day he kept to himself except
while at dinner. He sat at the table with bowed head; he had nothing to say. Eleanore went
to his door from time to time to see if she could hear him. There was not a sound; the house
sang with solitude.

Jordan had requested the landlord to sublet the house before his lease had expired: he felt
that it was too large and expensive for him in the present state of his affairs. The landlord
approved of the idea. In the house where Daniel and Gertrude were living there were two vacant
rooms in the attic. Gertrude suggested to her father that it would be well for him to take
them. Jordan agreed with her.

Eleanore began to think the situation over: if Father moves into those rooms, I can leave him.
She learned from Gertrude, who came now to see her father every other day, that Daniel had
received the appointment as Kapellmeister at the City Theatre. Eleanore could carry out her
plans then with a clear conscience, for her brother-in-law and her sister were getting along
quite well at present.

She recalled some conversations she had had with M. Rivière, who had advised her to go to Paris.
Since Christmas, when he was invited to be present at the distribution of the presents, he
had been coming to Jordan’s quite frequently to talk French with Eleanore. This was in accord
with her express desire.

One afternoon she went to visit M. Rivière. He was living in the romantic place up by the gardener
on Castle Hill. His room had a balcony that was completely overgrown with ivy and elder, while
in the background the trees and bushes of the city moat formed an impenetrable maze of green.
The spring air floated into the room in waves. As Eleanore made her business known, she fixed
her enchanted eyes on a bouquet of lilies of the valley that stood on the table in a bronze vase.

M. Rivière took a handful of them, and gave them to her. They had not been cut; they had been
pulled up by the roots. Eleanore laughed happily at the fragrance.

M. Rivière said he was just about to write to his mother in Paris, and as she was so familiar
with the city, she could be of great help to Eleanore.

Eleanore stepped out on the balcony. “The world is beautiful,” she thought, and smiled at the
fruitless efforts of a tiny beetle to climb up a perpendicular leaf. “Perhaps it was after
all merely a dream,” she thought, and thereby consoled herself.

When she returned, Daniel was at her father’s. The two men were sitting in the dark.

Eleanore lighted the lamp. Then she filled a glass with water, and put the lilies of the valley
in it.

“Daniel wants to know why you never visit them any more,” said Jordan, weak and distraught
as he now always was. “I told him you were busy at present with great plans of your own. Well,
what does the Frenchman think about it?”

Eleanore answered her father’s question in a half audible voice.

“Go wherever you want to go, child,” said Jordan. “You have been prepared for an independent
life in the world for a long while; there is no doubt about that. God forbid that I should
put any hindrances in your way.” He got up with difficulty, and turned toward the door of his
room. Taking hold of the latch, he stopped, and continued in his brooding way: “It is peculiar
that a man can die by inches in a living body; that a man can have the feeling that he’s no
longer a part of the present; and that he can no longer play his rôle, keep up with his own
people, grasp what is going on about him, or know whether what is to come is good or evil.
It is fearful when a man reaches that stage, fearful—fearful!”

He left the room, shaking his head. To Daniel his words sounded like a voice from the grave.

They had been silent for a long while, he and Eleanore. Suddenly he asked gruffly: “Are you
serious about going to Paris?”

“Of course I am,” she said, “what else can I do?”

He sprang up, and looked angrily into her face: “One has to be ashamed of one’s self,” he said,
“human language becomes repulsive. Don’t you have a feeling of horror when you think? Don’t
you shudder when you reflect on that caricature known as the heart, or the soul, or whatever
it may be called?”

“I don’t understand you, Daniel,” said Eleanore. She would never have considered it possible
that he would look with disfavour on her contrition and the decision that had sprung from it.
Then it had not after all been the flash of a solitary second? Had she not hoped and expected
to hear a self-accusation from him that would make her forget all and forgive herself? Where
was she? In what world or age was she living?

“Do you believe that I merely wanted to enjoy a diverting and momentary side-step?” Daniel
continued, measuring her with his eyes from head to foot. “Do you believe that it is possible
to jest with the most sacred laws of nature? You have had a good schooling, I must say; you
do your teachers honour. Go! I don’t need you. Go to Paris, and let me degenerate!”

He stepped to the door. Then he turned, and took the lamp, which she had removed from the holder
when she lighted it. Holding the lamp in his right hand, he walked close up to her. Her eyes
closed involuntarily. “I simply wanted to see whether it was really you,” he said with passionate
contempt. “Yes, it is you,” he said scornfully, “it is you.” With that he placed the lamp on
the table.

“I don’t understand you, Daniel,” she said softly. She looked around for some object to rest
her eyes on.

“So I see. Good night.”

“Daniel!”

But he had already gone. The hall door closed with a bang. The house sang with solitude.

The green threadbare sofa, the old, old smoke stains on the whitewashed ceiling, the five rickety
chairs that reminded her of so many decrepit old men, the mirror with the gilded angel of stucco
at the top—all these things were so tiring, so irksome, so annoying: they were like underbrush
in the forest.

Little brother! Little brother!

                                  IV

Three evenings of the week were devoted to opera, the others to drama.

The first Kapellmeister was a middle-aged man whose curly hair made him the idol of all flappers.
He was lazy, uncultivated, and his name was Lebrecht.

The director was an old stager who referred to the public about as a disrespectful footman
refers to his lord. At Daniel’s suggestions for improving the repertory, he generally shrugged
his shoulders. The operas in which he had the greatest confidence as drawing cards were “The
Beggar Student,” “Fra Diavolo,” “L’Africaine,” and “Robert le Diable.” The singers and the
orchestra were not much better than those of the lamented Dörmaul-Wurzelmann troupe. The possibility
of arousing them to intensified effort or filling them with a semblance of intelligent enthusiasm
for art was even less. Privileges based on length of service and the familiar traditions of
indolence made æsthetic innovations unthinkable.

Wherever careworn Philistines and slothful materialists occupy the seats from which art should
raise her voice, advancement, progress born of sacrificial application, is out of the question:
the most it is reasonable to expect is a bourgeois fulfilment of inescapable duties. In such,
cases the flower droops; the dream vanishes; the free-born spirit has the choice of fighting
day in and day out against the collective demons of pettiness and mediocrity, or of going down
in admitted defeat.

“Stuff the people can easily digest, my dear boy, that is the idea,” said the director.

“What are you so excited about? Don’t you know these people haven’t a musical muscle in their
whole soul?” said Lebrecht.

“For nine consecutive years I have been singing F sharp at this opera house, and now here comes
a musicien from the backwoods and demands all of a sudden that I sing F!” This was the commentary
of Fräulein Varini, the prima donna whose outstanding bosom had long been a source of human
merriment to pit, stall, and gallery.

“Ah, he is a greasy grind determined to arrive,” said the first violinist.

“He’s a spit-fire,” said the lad who beat the big drum, when Daniel threatened to box his ears
for a false intonation.

The Baroness had secured a publisher in Leipzig for his cycle of sixteen songs; the compositions
were to be brought out at her expense. That did not have the right effect: it was not something,
Daniel felt, that he had fought for and won; it was not a case where merit had made rejection
impossible. He had the feeling that he was selling his soul and was being paid to do it. Moreover,
and worst of all, he had to express his gratitude for this act. The Baroness loved to have
somebody thank her for what she had done. She never once suspected that what Daniel wanted
was not benefactors, but people who were stirred to the depths of their souls by his creations.
The rich cannot sense the feelings of the poor; the higher classes remain out of contact with
the lower.

His excitability saved him. In his magnificent solicitude for the mission that is at once the
token and the curse of those who are really called, he shut himself off from a world from which
the one thing he wanted was bread; bread and nothing else.

After the publication of the songs a review appeared in the Phœnix which had a remarkably realistic
ring to the ear of the layman. As a matter of fact it was merely an underhanded attempt at
assassination. The thing was signed with a big, isolated “W.” Wurzelmann, the little slave,
had shot from his ambush.

Other musical journals copied this review. A half dozen people bought the songs; then they
were forgotten.

It was no use to hope. The trouble was, he needed bread, just bread.

                                   V

It was often difficult for him to find the peace and quiet necessary for effective work. May
brought cold weather; they had to make a fire; the stove smoked; the potter came in and removed
the tiles; the room looked like an inferno.

Gertrude was pounding sugar: “Don’t be angry at me, Daniel; I must pound the sugar to-day.”
And she pounded away until the hammer penetrated the paralysed brain of the listener by force
of circumstances.

The hinges of the door screeched. “You ought to oil them, Gertrude.” Gertrude looked high and
low for the oil can, and when she finally found it, she had no feather to use in smearing the
oil on. She went over to the chancellor’s, and borrowed one from her maid. While she was gone,
the milk boiled over and filled the house with a disagreeable stench.

The door bell rang. It was the cobbler; he had come to get the money for the patent leather
shoes. The wives of Herr Kirschner and Herr Rübsam had both said that Daniel must not think
of appearing at the coming recital at the Baroness’s without patent leather shoes.

“I haven’t the money, Gertrude; have you got that much?”

Gertrude went through her chests, and scraped up five marks which she gave the cobbler as a
first instalment. The man went away growling; Daniel hid from him.

Gertrude was sitting in the living room making clothes for her baby-to-come. There was a happy
expression on her face. Daniel knew that it was a display of maternal joy and expectation,
but since he could not share this joy, since indeed he felt a sense of fear at the appearance
of the child, her happiness embittered him.

Between the fuchsias in the window stood a robin red-breast; the impish bird had its head turned
to one side, and was peeping into the room: “Come out,” it chirped, “come out.” And Daniel went.

He had an engagement with M. Rivière at the café by the market place. Since he no longer saw
anything of Eleanore, he wanted to find out how her plans for going to Paris were getting along.

The Frenchman told of the progress he was making in his Caspar Hauser research. In his broken
German he told of the murder of body and soul that had been committed in the case of the foundling:
“He was a mortal man comme une étoile,” he said. “The bourgeoisie crushed him. The bourgeoisie
is the racine of all evil.”

Daniel never mentioned Eleanore’s name. He tried to satisfy himself by the fact that she kept
out of his sight. He bit his lips together, and said: I will. But a stronger power in him said,
No, you won’t. And this stronger power became a beggar. It went around saying, Give me, please,
give me!

The billiard balls rattled. A gentleman in a red velvet vest had a quarrel with a shabby looking
fellow who had been reading Fliegende Blätter for the last two hours; he would begin over and
over again at the very beginning, and break out into convulsions of laughter every time he
came to his favourite jokes.

Daniel was silent; he insisted somehow on remaining silent. M. Rivière wished, for this reason,
to hear something about the “Harzreise.” By way of starting a discussion he remarked quite
timidly that sans musique la vie est insupportable, “There is something about music that reminds
one of insanity,” he remarked. He said there were nights when he would open a volume of Schubert’s
or Brahms’s songs, leaf through them, read the notes, and hum the melodies simply in order
to escape the despair which the conduct of the people about him was emptying into his heart.
“Moi, I ought to be, how do you say? stoic; mais I am not. In me there is trop de musique,
et c’est le contraire.”

Daniel looked at him in astonishment. “Come with me,” he said suddenly, got up, and took him
by the arm.

They met Eleanore in the hall. She had been up in the new flat with the whitewasher. Her father
was to move in the following day.

“Why was all this done so quickly?” asked Daniel, full of a vague happiness that drew special
nourishment from the fact that Eleanore was plainly excited.

“Mere chance,” she said, and carefully avoided looking at him. “A captain who is being transferred
here from Ratisbon is moving in our place. It is a pity to leave the good old rooms. The second-hand
dealer is going to get a deal of our stuff; there is no room for it up there in those two cubby
holes. How is Gertrude? May I go up and see her for a minute or two?”

“Yes, go right up,” said Daniel stiffly; “you can stay and listen if you wish to. I am going
to play the Harzreise.”

“If I wish to? I almost have a right to; you promised me this long ago.”

“She thinks after all that I want to catch her,” he thought to himself. “It will be better
for me to drop the whole business than to let the idea creep into her stupid skull that my
composition is going to make propaganda for our private affairs.” With bowed head he ascended
the stairs, M. Rivière and Eleanore following along behind. His ears were pricked to hear anything
they might say about Paris; they talked about the weather.

As they entered the room Gertrude had the harp between her knees; but she was not playing.
Her hands lay on the strings, her head was resting on the frame. “Why haven’t you lighted a
lamp?” asked Daniel angrily.

She was terrified; she looked at him anxiously. The expression on her face made him conscious
of many things that he had kept in the background of his thoughts during his everyday life:
her unconditional surrender to him; the magnanimity and nobility of her heart, which was as
dependent on his as the mercury in the thermometer is dependent on the atmosphere; her speechless
resignation regarding a thousand little things in her life! her wellnigh supernatural ability
to enter into the spirit and enjoyment of what he was doing, however much his mind might presume
to write De profundis across his creations.

It was on this account that he recognised in her face a serious, far-away warning. At once
cowardly and reverential, conscious of his guilt and yet feeling innocent, he went up to her
and kissed her on the hair. She leaned her head on his breast, thus causing him to feel, though
quite unaware of it herself, the whole weight of the burden she was placing on him.

He told her he was going to play. He said: “I have lost my picture again; I want to try to
find it in others.”

Gertrude begged him, with a pale face, to be permitted to stay in the living room. She closed
the door only partly.

                                  VI

In Goethe’s verses entitled “Harzreise im Winter,” thoughts lie scattered about like erratic
strata in the world of geology, and feelings that are as big and terrible as the flames from
burning planets. In Daniel’s work the whole of Goethe’s prodigious sorrow and solemnity seemed
to have been transformed automatically into music.

When, in the second half, the motif of human voices was taken over, when these voices pealed
forth first singly, one by one, from the surging sea of tones, and then gathered with ever-increasing
avidity, longing, and candour into the great chorus, one had the feeling that without this
liberation they would have been stifled in the darkness.

The effect of the pianissimo moaning of the basses before the soprano set in was overwhelming:
it was like the vulture which, resting with easy wing on the dark morning cloud, spies around
for booty. So was the song meant to be. The trombone solo was a shout of victory: it imparted
new life to the sunken orchestra.

Daniel had infinite trouble in making all this wealth of symbolic art clear through song, word,
and gesture at the same time that his music was being played.

The work abounded in blends and half tones which stamped it as a child of its age, and still
more of ages to come, despite the compact rigidity of its architecture. There was no bared
sweetness in it; it was as rough as the bark of a tree; it was as rough as anything that is
created with the assurance of inner durability.

Its rhythm was uniform, regular; it provided only for crescendos. There was nothing of the
seductive, nothing of the waltz-fever in it. It was in no way cheap; it did not flatter slothful
ears. It had no languishing motifs; it was all substance and exterior. The melody was concealed
like a hard kernel in a thick shell; and not merely concealed: it was divided, and then the
divisions were themselves divided. It was condensed, compressed, bound, and at the same time
subterranean. It was created to rise from its depths, rejoice, and overwhelm: “But clothe the
lonely one in thy clouds of gold! Enshroud with ivy until the roses bloom again, oh Love, the
dampened hair of thy poet!”

The work was written a quarter of a century before its time. It was out of touch with the nerves
of its contemporary environment. It could not hope to count upon a prophet or an interpreter.
It could not be carried further by the benevolence of congenial champions. It bore the marks
of mortal neglect. It was like a bird from the tropics left to die on the icy coasts of Greenland.

But for those who are near in heart there is a fluid in the air that intercedes for the higher
truth. M. Rivière and Eleanore scarcely breathed during the recital. Eleanore’s big eyes were
still: they opened and closed slowly. When Daniel finished, he dried his hot brow with his
handkerchief, and then his arms fell limp at his sides. He felt as if the brilliancy of Eleanore’s
eyes had reached the tips of his hair and had electrified it. They went in, and found Gertrude
pale as death, her hands folded across her bosom, sitting on the sofa. She was talking to herself,
partly as if in a dream, partly as if she were praying. It was impossible to understand what
she was saying. She seemed distant, estranged.

Eleanore hastened to her; Daniel looked at her with a scowl. Just then the bell rang, and M.
Rivière went out. There was the sound of a man’s voice; it was disagreeable. The door was opened
and—Herr Carovius entered.

                                  VII

Herr Carovius bowed in all directions. He wore tan shoes with brass buckles, black trousers,
a shiny green coat, and a white cravat that could no longer be called clean. He laid his slouch
hat on a chair, and said he would like to beg their pardon if he had called at an inopportune
hour. He had come, he said, to thank his dear young master for the aforementioned invitation.

“It seems—yes, it seems,” he added, with a droll blinking of his eyes, “that I have in all
innocence interrupted the performance of a most interesting production. There is a crowd of
people gathered out in front of the house, and I could not forego the pleasure of listening.
I hope you will not stop playing the sacrificial festival on my account. What was it, maestro?
It wasn’t the symphony, was it?”

“Yes, it was the symphony,” replied Daniel, who was so amazed at the appearance and conduct
of the man that he was really courteous.

“It cost me money to be sure—believe it or not. I had to get an afternoon coat that would do
for a Count—latest cut, velvet collar, tails that reached down to my calves. Aristocratic,
very!” He stared over Gertrude’s head into the corner, and tittered for at least a half a minute.

Nobody said a word. Everybody was dumb, astounded.

“Good lord, social obligations,” continued Herr Carovius, “but after all you can’t afford to
be a backwoodsman. Music is supposed to ennoble a man even externally. By the way, there is
a rumour afloat that it is a symphony with chorus. How did you happen upon the idea? The laurels
of the Ninth will not let you sleep? I would have thought that you didn’t give a damn about
classical models. Everybody is so taken up now with musical lullabies, wage-la-wei-a, that
kind of stuff, you know. But then I suppose that is only a transition stage, as the fox said
when he was being skinned.”

He took off his nose glasses, polished them very hastily, fumbled for a while with his cord,
and then put them on again. Having gained time in this way, he began to expatiate on the decadence
of the arts, asked Daniel whether he had ever heard anything about a certain Hugo Wolf who
was being much talked about and who was sitting in darkest Austria turning out songs like a
Hottentot, made a number of derogatory remarks about a fountain that was being erected in the
city, said that a company of dancers had just appeared at the Cultural Club in a repertory
of grotesque pantomimes, remarked that as he was coming over he learned that there was an institution
in the city that loaned potato sacks, and that there had just been a fearful fire in Constantinople.

Thereupon he looked first at Daniel, then at M. Rivière, took the snarls of the one and the
embarrassment of the other to be encouraging signs for the continuation of his gossip, readjusted
his glasses, and sneezed. Then he smoothed out the already remarkably smooth hairs he had left
on his head, rubbed his hands as if he were beginning to feel quite at home, and tittered when
there was any sign of a stoppage in his asinine eloquence.

At times he would cast a stealthy glance at Gertrude, who would draw back somewhat as the arm
of a thief who feels he is being watched. Eleanore did not seem to be present so far as he
was concerned: he did not see her. Finally she got up. She was tortured by the interruption
of what she had just experienced from the music and by his flat, stale, and unprofitable remarks.
Then he got up too, looked at his watch as if he were frightened, asked if he might repeat
his visit at another time, took leave of Gertrude with a silly old-fashioned bow, from Daniel
with a confidential handshake, and from the Frenchman with uncertain courtesy. Eleanore he
again entirely overlooked.

Out in the hall he stopped, nodded several times, and said with an almost insane grin, speaking
into the empty air before him: “Auf Wiedersehen, fair one! Auf Wiedersehen, fairest of all!
Good-bye, my angel! Forget me not!”

In the room Eleanore whispered in a heavy, anxious tone: “What was that? What was that?”

                                 VIII

Philippina Schimmelweis came to help Eleanore with the moving. At first Eleanore was quite
surprised; then she became accustomed to having her around and found her most helpful. Jordan
took no interest in anything that was going on. The last of all his hope seemed to be shattered
by the fact that he was to move.

Philippina gradually fell into the habit of coming every day and working for a few hours either
for Eleanore or for Gertrude, so long as the latter had anything to do in the kitchen. They
became used to seeing her, and put up with her. She tried to make as little noise as possible;
she had the mien of a person who is filling an important but unappreciated office.

She made a study of the house; she knew the rooms by heart. She preferred to come along toward
sunset or a little later. One day she told Eleanore she had seen a mysterious-looking person
out on the hall steps. Eleanore took a candle and went out, but she could not see any one.
Philippina insisted nevertheless that she had seen a man in a green doublet, and that he had
made a face at her.

She was particularly attracted by the rooms in the attic. She told the neighbours that there
was an owl up there. As a result of this the children of that section began to fear the entire
house, while the chancellor’s wife, who lived on the ground floor, became so nervous that she
gave up her apartment.

There was no outside door or entrance hall of any kind to Jordan’s new quarters. You went direct
from the stairway into the room where Eleanore worked and slept. Adjoining this was her father’s
room. People still called him the Inspector, although he no longer had such a position.

He sat in his narrow, cramped room the whole day. One wall was out of plumb. The windows he
kept closed. When Eleanore brought him his breakfast or called him to luncheon, which she had
cooked in the tiny box of a kitchen and then served in her own little room, he was invariably
sitting at the table before a stack of papers, mostly old bills and letters. The arrangement
of these he never changed.

Once she entered his room without knocking. He sprang up, closed a drawer as quickly as he
could, locked it, put the key in his pocket, and tried to smile in an innocent way. Eleanore’s
heart almost stopped beating.

He never went out until it was dark, and on his return he could be seen carrying a package
under his arm. This he took with him to his room.

At first Eleanore was always uneasy when she had to leave. She requested Philippina to be very
careful and see to it that no stranger entered the house. Philippina had a box full of ribbons
in Eleanore’s cabinet. She set a chair against the door leading into Jordan’s room; and when
her hands were tired from rummaging around in the ribbons and her eyes weary from looking at
all the flashy colours, she pressed her ear to the door to see if she could find out what the
old man was doing.

At times she heard him talking. It seemed as if he were talking with some one. His voice had
an exhortatory but tender tone in it. Philippina trembled with fear. Once she even pressed
the latch; she wanted to open the door as quietly as possible, so that she might peep in and
see what was really going on. But to her vexation, the door was bolted on the other side.

For Gertrude she did small jobs and ran little errands: she would go to the baker or the grocer
for her. Gertrude became less and less active; it was exceedingly difficult for her to climb
the stairs. Philippina took the place of a maid. The only kind of work she refused to do was
work that would soil her clothes. Gertrude’s shyness irritated her; one day she said in a snappy
tone: “You are pretty proud, ain’t you? You don’t like me, do you?” Gertrude looked at her
in amazement, and made no reply; she did not know what to say.

Whenever Philippina heard Daniel coming, she hid herself. But if he chanced to catch sight
of her, he merely shrugged his shoulders at the “frame,” as he contemptuously called her. It
seemed to him that it would be neither wise nor safe to mistreat her. He felt that it was the
better part of valour to look with favour on her inexplicable diligence, and let it go at that.

Once he even so completely overcame himself that he gave her his hand; but he drew it back
immediately: he felt that he had never touched anything so slimy in his life; he thought he
had taken hold of a frog. Philippina acted as if she had not noticed what he had done. But
scarcely had he gone into his room, when she turned to Gertrude with a diabolic glimmer in
her eyes, and, making full use of her vulgar voice, said: “Whew! Daniel’s kind, ain’t he? No
wonder people can’t stand him!”

When she saw that Gertrude knit her brow at this exclamation, she wheeled about on the heels
of her clumsy shoes, and screamed as if the devil were after her: “Oi, oi, Gertrude, Gertrude,
oi, oi, the meat’s burning! The meat’s burning.”

It was a false alarm. The meat was sizzling quite peacefully in the pan.

                                  IX

Late in the afternoon of a stormy day in June Daniel came home from the last rehearsal of the
“Harzreise,” tired and out of humour. The rehearsals had been held in a small room in Weyrauth’s
Garden. He had quarrelled with all the musicians and with all the singers, male and female.

As he reached Ægydius Place a shudder suddenly ran through his body. He was forced to cover
his eyes with his hands and stand still for a moment; he thought he would die from longing
for a precious virginal possession which he had been so foolish as to trifle away.

He went up the steps, passed by his own apartment, and climbed on up to the apartment of Inspector
Jordan and his daughter Eleanore.

His eye fell on the board partition surrounding the stove and the copper cooking utensils that
hung on the wall. There sat Eleanore, her arm resting on the window sill, her head on her hand:
she was meditating—meditating and gaining new strength as she did so. Her face was turned toward
the steep fall of a roof, the century-old frame-work, grey walls, darkened window panes and
dilapidated wooden galleries, above which lay stillness and a rectangular patch of sky that
was then covered with clouds.

“Good evening,” said Daniel, as he stepped out of the darkness into the dimly lighted room.
“What are you doing, Eleanore, what are you thinking about?”

Eleanore shuddered: “Ah, is it you, Daniel? You show yourself after a long while? And ask what
I am thinking about? What curiosity! Do you want to come into my room?”

“No, no, sit perfectly still,” he replied, and prevented her from getting up by touching her
on the shoulder. “Is your father at home?”

She nodded. He drew a narrow bench from which he had removed the coffee mill and a strainer
up to the serving table, and sat down as far as possible from Eleanore, though even so they
were as close together as if they were sitting opposite each other in a cab.

“How are you making out?” she asked with embarrassment, and without the remotest display of warmth.

“You know that I am beating a perforated drum, Eleanore.” After a pause he added: “But whatever
people may do or fail to do, between us two there must be a clear understanding: Are you going
to Paris?”

She dropped her head in silence. “Well, I could go; there is nothing to prevent me,” she said,
softly and with hesitation. “But you see how it is. I am no longer as I used to be. Formerly
I could scarcely picture the happiness I would derive from having some one there in whom I
could confide and who would be interested in me. I would not have hesitated for a moment. But
now? If I go, what becomes clear from my going? And if I stay here, what will be clear? I have
already told you, Daniel, that I don’t understand you. How terrible it is to have to say that!
What do you want now? How is all this going to come out?”

“Eleanore, do you recall Benda’s last letter? You yourself brought it to me, and after that
I was a different person. He wrote to me in that letter just as if he had never heard of Gertrude,
and said that I should not pass you by. He wrote that we two were destined for each other,
and neither for any one else in the world. Of course you recall how I acted after reading the
letter. And even before that: Do you remember the day of the wedding when you put the myrtle
wreath on? Why, I knew then that I had lost everything, that my real treasure had vanished.
And even before that: Do you recall that I found that Fräulein Sylvia von Erfft had your complexion,
your figure, your hair, and your hands? And even before that: When you went walking with Benda
in the woods, I walked along behind, and took so much pleasure in watching you walk, but I
didn’t know it. And when you came into the room there in the Long Row, and caressed the mask
and sat down at the piano and leaned your head against the wood, don’t you recall how indispensable
you were to me, to my soul? The only trouble is, I didn’t know it; I didn’t know it.”

“Well, there is nothing to be done about all that: that is a by-gone story,” said Eleanore,
holding her breath, while a blush of emotion flitted across her face only to give way to a
terrible paleness.

“Do you believe that I am a person to be content with what is past? Every one, Eleanore, owes
himself his share of happiness, and he can get it if he simply makes up his mind to it. It
is not until he has neglected it, abandoned it, and passed it by, that his fate makes a slave
out of him.”

“That is just what I do not understand,” said Eleanore, and looked into his face with a more
cheerful sense of freedom. “It wounds my heart to see you waging a losing battle against self-deception
and ugly defiance. We two cannot think of committing a base deed, Daniel. It is impossible,
isn’t it?”

Daniel, plainly excited, bent over nearer to her: “Do you know where I am standing?” he asked,
while the blue veins in his temples swelled and hammered: “Well, I’ll tell you. I am standing
on a marble slab above an abyss. To the right and left of this abyss are nothing but blood-thirsty
wolves. There is no choice left to me except either to leap down into the abyss, or to allow
myself to be torn to pieces by the wolves. When such a being as you comes gliding along through
the air, a winged creature like you, that can rescue me and pull me up after it, is there any
ground for doubt as to what should be done?”

Eleanore folded her arms across her bosom, and half closed her eyes: “Ah no, Daniel,” she said
in a kindly way, “you are exaggerating, really. You see everything too white and too black:
A winged creature, I? Where, pray, are my wings? And wolves? All these silly little people—wolves?
Oh no, Daniel. And blood-thirsty? Listen, Daniel, that is going quite too far; don’t you think
so yourself?”

“Don’t crush my feelings, Eleanore!” cried Daniel, in a suppressed tone and with passionate
fierceness: “Don’t crush my feelings, for they are all I have left. You are not capable of
thinking as you have just been talking, you cannot think that low, you are not capable of such
languid, ordinary feelings. The over-tone! The over-tone! Think a little! Can’t you see them
gritting their teeth at me? Can’t you hear them howling day and night? Can you possibly say
that they are kind or compassionate? Or are they willing to be good and great when one comes?
Do you have confidence in a single one of them? Have they not even dragged your good name into
the mire? Are any of the things that are sacred to you and to me sacred to them? Can they be
moved the one-thousandth part of an inch by your distress or my distress or the distress of
any human being? Is not the slime of slander thick upon their tongues? Is not your smile a
thorn in their flesh? Do they not envy me the little I have and for which I have flayed myself?
Don’t they envy me my music, which they do not understand, and which they hate because they
do not understand it? Would it not fill them with joy if I had to make my living beating stones
on the public highway or cleaning out sewers? Do they find it possible to pardon me for my
life and the things that make up my life? And yet you say there are no wolves? That they are
not wolves? Tell me that you are afraid of them, that you do not wish to turn them against
yourself; but don’t tell me that you are committing an evil act when I call you to me, you
with your wings, and you come.”

His arms were stretched out toward her on the top of the kitchen table; they were trembling
to the very tips of his fingers.

“The evil deed, Daniel,” whispered Eleanore, “hasn’t anything to do with these people; it was
committed against the higher law of morals, against our feeling of right usage and established
honour....”

“False,” he hissed, “false! They have made you believe that. They have preached that to you
for centuries and centuries; your mother, your grand-mother, your great-grand-mother, they
have all been telling you that. It is false; it is a lie; it is all a lie. It is with this
very lie that they support their power and protect their organisation. It is truth on the contrary
that fills my heart, fills it with joy, and helps me along. What nature offers, obedience to
nature, that is truth. Truth lies in your thoughts, in your feelings, girl, in your choked
feelings, in your blood, in the ‘yes’ you speak in your dreams. Of course I know that they
need their lie, for they must be organised, the wolves; they must go in packs, otherwise they
are impotent. But I have only my truth, only my truth as I stand on the marble slab above the
abyss.”

“Your truth, Daniel,” said Eleanore, “your truth. But your truth is not my truth.”

“No, Eleanore? No? Not yours? What then is the use of my talking with you? And even if everything
else were falsehood and error, I am as convinced as I can be that my truth is also your truth.”

“You can’t stand out against the whole world,” said Eleanore in anguish, “you are after all
in the world yourself.”

“Yes, I will take my stand against the whole world,” he said, “that is precisely what I have
made up my mind to do. I will pay them back in their own coin. Just as they have all stood
against me, just so will I stand against them. I am no compromiser, no treaty-maker, no haggler,
no beggar. I live according to my own law. I must, where other people merely should or may,
or may not. Whoever does not comprehend that has nothing in common, one way or the other, with me.”

She was terrified at the presumptuousness of his words; and yet there was a feeling in her
of joy and pride: she felt a desire to be for him, to be with him. If he was fighting against
the very power that would in the end overcome him, he was doing it for her sake. She did not
feel, therefore, that she had the right to withdraw from him. The thing about it all that gave
her a wonderful feeling of relief, and at the same time made her morally flabby and carried
her away, was the passion of his will and the undaunted assurance of his feelings.

But their eyes chanced to meet; and in the eyes of each there was the name of Gertrude.

Gertrude stood between them in living form. Everything they had said had proceeded from her
and returned to her. That Daniel was not thinking of annulling his marriage, that he could
not think of it, Eleanore knew. A child was expected; who could reject the mother under these
circumstances? How would it be possible, poor as they were, to expose both mother and child
to the inevitable misery that would follow annulment of the marriage? Daniel could not do this,
and Eleanore knew it.

But she also knew, for she knew her sister, that separation from Daniel would mean her death.
She knew too that Daniel considered his marriage to Gertrude as indissoluble, not only because
of his knowledge of her character, but because there was in his life with Gertrude something
that is quite independent of passions, views, and decisions, something that binds even in hate
and binds even more firmly in despair.

Eleanore knew all this. She knew that Daniel knew it. And if she drew the only conclusion that
could be drawn from his argument and his state of mind, she knew what he demanded of her.

He was demanding that she give herself up to him. Of this there could be not a shred of doubt.

But how? Secretly? Could that produce happiness? With the understanding of Gertrude? Could
Gertrude endure such a thought, even if she were as magnanimous as a saint? Where was the way
that could be followed? Where was there an angle from which embarrassment, anxiety, and ruin
were not ready to leap forth without warning?

She bowed her head, and covered it with her hands. She sat in this position for a long while.
Darkness settled down over the roofs of the houses.

Suddenly she got up, reached him her hand, smiled with tears in her eyes, and said with a last
attempt to escape the horrible consequences, “Brüderlein[1]....” She spoke the word in a tone
of longing fervour and half-humorous appealing.

  [Footnote 1: “Little brother.”]

He shook his head sadly, but took her hand and held it tenderly between his.

Her face became clouded; it was like a landscape at the coming of night. Her eyes, turned to
one side, saw the trees of a great garden, an ugly old woman sitting by a hedge, and two little
girls who looked into the setting sun with fear in their hearts.

There was a noise; she and Daniel were startled. In the doorway stood Philippina Schimmelweis.
Her eyes glistened like the skin of a reptile that has just crept up from out of the bog.

Daniel went down to his apartment.

                                   X

For nine years the rococo hall in the Auffenberg home had been closed to festive celebrations
of every kind. It took a long, tedious exchange of letters between the secretary of the Baron
living in Rome and the secretary of the Baroness to get the permission of the former to use
the hall.

The indignation at Nothafft’s work was general. The members of the social set could hardly
contain themselves, while the amateurs and specially invited guests were likewise but little
edified. The chief diversion of the evening, in fact, was to see the composer himself conduct.
At the sight of the jumping and sprawling fellow, Herr Zöllner, councillor of the consistory,
almost burst with laughter.

Old Count Schlemm-Nottheim, who not only had a liking for pornographic literature but was also
known to drink a quarter of a litre of Dr. Rosa’s balsam of life every afternoon, declared
that the ensemble playing of all the instruments represented by the show-booths at the annual
fair was an actual musical revelation in comparison with this Dutch concert of rogues’ marches.
Judge Braun of the Supreme Court gave it as his candid opinion that there was evidently a conspiracy
against good taste.

Remarks of this kind were, of course, made behind screens and in the corners. In order not
to offend the Baroness, there was a goodly measure of seemingly cordial applause. The guests
and artists then assembled around a huge table arranged in the shape of a horseshoe.

Count Schlemm-Nottheim was the table companion of the Baroness; he had her tell him who the
various personages from the world of art were. He asked who was the woman of such interesting
melancholy sitting next to Major Bellmann. He was told that that was the wife of the composer.
His wife? She is not at all bad; life with her would be rather worth while. And who was the
woman between old Herold and the Frenchman? A charming little creature: she had eyes like the
Lake of Liguria and hands like a princess. That was the sister of the composer’s wife. Sister?
You don’t tell me! A jolly fine family; worth the support of any man.

Toasts were drunk. Herr Ehrenreich, the wholesale merchant, drank to the health of the creator
of the “Harzreise”; the Count to the ladies present.

Herr Carovius created a sensation. He sat with the members of the “Liedertafel”; they had sung
in the chorus; and they were ashamed of him, for he conducted himself in a most unseemly fashion.

He had somehow managed to get hold of a glove Eleanore had lost, and possibly it was this that
made him so convivial. He picked up an almond shell from the serving tray, and threw it at
Fräulein Varini. He let his leery, lascivious eyes roam about over the cut glass and the decorations
of the hall, and never once grew tired of praising the wealth and splendour of the house. He
acted as though he were quite at home. He raised his wine glass, and declared that he was charmed
by the flavour and colour of the costly, precious juice from the grape: he tried to give the
impression that he knew the Auffenberg wine cellar from years of intimate association with it.

Then it happened that through a hasty, awkward movement, he upset his plate; a rivulet of rich
brown gravy ran down over his white vest. He became silent; he retired within himself. He dipped
his napkin in the water, and rubbed and rubbed. The waiters tittered. He buttoned up his coat,
and looked like a show window in the dead of night.

The eyes of the waiters were also given the privilege of feasting on another rare social phenomenon.
They noticed that Kapellmeister Nothafft was sitting at the table in his stocking feet. His
patent leather shoes had hurt him so much that he made short work of it and took them off during
the dinner. There they stood without master or servant, one at the right, the other at the
left of his disencumbered feet. Whenever the waiters passed by, they would cast one furtive
but profitable glance under the table, and bite their lips to keep from bursting out in laughter.

This rude offence to social dignity was not unknown to the other dinner guests. They whispered,
smiled, shrugged their shoulders, and shook their heads. Daniel made no effort to conceal his
bootlessness when the guests rose to leave the table; without giving the astonishment of his
companions a single thought, he once more drew the patent leather torturers on to his extremities.
But he had made a mistake: he had gambled and lost.

The news of the extraordinary event was fully exploited on the following day. It was carried
from house to house, accumulated momentous charm in its course, passed from the regions of
the high to those of the less high and quite low, and provoked storms of laughter everywhere.
No one had anything to say about the symphony; everybody was fully informed concerning the
patent leather episode.

                                  XI

On the way home Daniel walked with Eleanore. Gertrude followed at some distance with M. Rivière;
she could not walk rapidly.

“How did you find it, Eleanore? Didn’t you have the feeling that you were at a feast of corpses?”

“Dear,” she murmured; they walked on.

After they had gone along for some time in perfect silence, they came to a narrow gateway.
Eleanore suddenly felt that she could no longer endure Daniel’s mute questioning. She pulled
her silk veil closer to her cheeks, and said: “Give me time! Don’t hurry me! Please give me time!”

“If I hadn’t given you time, my dear girl, I should not have deserved this moment,” he replied.

“I cannot, I cannot,” she said, with a sigh of despair. She had only one hope, one ray of hope
left, and her whole soul was fixed on that. But she was obliged to act in silence.

Standing in the living room with Gertrude, Daniel’s eye fell on the mask of Zingarella; it
had been decorated with rose twigs. Under the green young leaves fresh buds shone forth; they
hung around the white stucco of the mask like so many little red lanterns. “Who did that?”
he asked.

“Eleanore was here in the afternoon; she did it,” replied Gertrude.

His burning eyes were riveted on the mask, when Gertrude stepped up to him, threw her arms
around him, and in the fulness of her feelings exclaimed: “Daniel, your work was wonderful,
wonderful!”

“So? Did you like it? I am glad to hear it,” he said, in a tone of dry conventionality.

“The people don’t grasp it,” she said gently, and then added with a blush: “But I understand
it; I understand it, for it belongs to me.”

The following day he laid the score of the “Harzreise” together with the words in a big old
chest, and locked it. It was like a funeral.

                                  XII

In the dark, winding alleys behind the city wall stand little houses with large numbers and
coloured lanterns. They are filled with a sweetish, foul odour, and have been laboriously built
up out of dilapidated lumber-rooms. From the cracks in the closed blinds come forth, night
after night, the sounds of shrill laughter. Those who enter are received by half-nude monsters,
and are made to sit down on monstrous chairs and sofas covered with red plush.

The citizen calls these places dens of vice. Between Friday and Sunday he thinks with lustful
horror of the inhabitants with their bloated or emaciated bodies and the sad or intoxicated
stare of their eyes.

Herr Carovius wended his way to this quarter of the city. Because it was only a shadow which
he embraced in hours when his inflamed imagination, vitiated by all the poisons of the earth,
conjured up a human body, he was angry; now he went there, and bought himself a real human body.

After he had been in a half a dozen of these houses, had been jubilantly greeted, and then
thrown out to the accompaniment of bawdy abuse, he at last found what he had been looking for:
a creature whose cunning had not entirely been lost, who still had the features of a daughter
of man, and whose figure and character still had the power to call up a memory, provided one
were firmly decided to see what one wished to see and to forget what one wished to forget.

Her name was Lena, charming reminder of a desired reality! He went with her as she left the
circle of her companions, and followed her into the wretched hole between winding stairs and
attic rooms. He rattled the coins in his pocket, and gave his orders. The nymph had to put
on a street dress, set a modest hat on her head, and draw a veil over her rouged face. Thereupon
he went up to her, spoke to her courteously, and kissed her hand. He had never in his life
acted in so polite and chivalric a fashion in the presence of a woman.

The prostitute was frightened; she ran away. She had to be given instructions; these were given
her by the madame of the house; for Herr Carovius was rattling the coins in his pocket. “You
will have to be patient and indulgent; we are not prepared for such refined guests here.”

He returned. Lena had been told what to do. She soon fell into her rôle.

“To be frank,” he said to Lena, “I am inexperienced in the arts of love. I am too proud to
kowtow to the berobed and bodiced idol. A woman is a woman, and a man is a man. They delude
themselves and each other, or try to, into believing that each woman is a special person, and
each man a man to himself. Idiocy!”

The prostitute grinned.

He walked back and forth; the room was just large enough to allow him to take three steps.
He recalled the expression on Eleanore’s face during the performance of the symphony; his greedy
eyes had rested on her all the while. He became enraged: “You don’t imagine that progress can
be made by such amateurish efforts?” he said with a roar. “It is all hocus-pocus. There is
as a matter of fact no such thing as progress in art, any more than there is progress in the
course of the stars. Listen!”

He bellowed forth the first motif from the “Sonata quasi una fantasia” of Mozart: “Listen to
this: Da—dada—da—daddaa! Is it possible to progress beyond that? Don’t let them make a fool
of you, my angel. Be honest with yourself. He has hypnotised you. He has turned your unsuspecting
heart upside down. Look at me! Are you afraid of me? I will do all in my power for you. Give
me your hand. Speak to me!”

The prostitute was obliged to stretch out her arms. He sat down beside her with a solemn ceremoniousness.
Then he removed the pin from her hat, and laid the hat tenderly to one side. She had to lean
her head on his shoulder.

With that he fell into a dreamy meditation.

                                 XIII

Philippina came up to Gertrude in the living room. Daniel was not at home. Philippina was humming
the latest street song, the refrain of which ran as follows:

    Drah’ di, Madel, drah’ di,
    Morgen kommt der Mahdi.

“There it is,” said Philippina, and threw a ball of yarn on the table.

Gertrude had yielded to the girl’s importunities, and was addressing her now with the familiar
“thou” and allowing Philippina to do the same in speaking to her. “We are after all relatives,
you know, Gertrude,” said Philippina.

Gertrude was afraid of Philippina; but she had thus far found no means of defending herself
against her exaggerated eagerness to help her with the housework. And she felt in Philippina’s
presence what she felt in the presence of no one else—a sense of shame at her own condition.

Philippina, in fact, saw something indecent in Gertrude’s pregnancy; when she talked to her
she always held her head up and looked into space; her action was quite conspicuous.

“Oh, but ain’t people impudent,” Philippina began, after she had taken a loutish position on
a chair. “The clerk over in the store asked me whether there wasn’t something up between Daniel
and Eleanore. What d’ye think of that? Fresh, yes? You bet I give him all that was coming to him!”

The needle in Gertrude’s fingers stopped moving. It was not the first time that Philippina
had made such insinuating remarks. To-day she would come up to Gertrude, and whisper to her
that Daniel was upstairs with Eleanore; yesterday she had said in a tone of affected sympathy
that Eleanore looked so run down. Then she gave a detailed report of what this person and that
person had said; then she turned into a champion of good morals and gentle manners, and remarked
that you ought not offend people.

Her every third word was “people.” She said she knew what a faultless character Eleanore had
and how Daniel loved his wife, but people! And after all you couldn’t scratch everybody’s eyes
out who annoyed you with dubious questions; if you did, there would soon be very few eyes left.

Philippina’s bangs had acquired an unusual length; they covered her whole forehead down to
her eyelashes. The glances she cast at Gertrude had on this account something especially malevolent
about them. “She is not so certain of herself and her family after all,” thought Philippina,
and made a lewd gesture with her legs as she sprawled on the chair.

“You know, I think Daniel ought to be more cautious,” she said with her rasping voice. “This
being together all alone for hours at a time ain’t going to do no good; no good at all, I say.
And the two are always running after each other; if it’s not her, it’s him. If you happen to
take ’em by surprise, they jump like criminals. It’s been going on this way for six weeks,
day after day. Do you think that’s right? You don’t need to put up with it, Gertrude,” she
said in conclusion, making a sad attempt to look coquettish. Then she cast her eyes to the
floor, and looked as innocent as a child.

Gertrude’s heart grew cold. Her confidence in Daniel was unfaltering, but the venomous remarks
made to her left her without peace of mind or body; she could not think clearly. The very fact
that such things were being said about Daniel and Eleanore, and that words failed her to stop
them because from the very beginning she had borne it all with the self-assurance that naturally
springs from contempt for gossip, only tended to make her grief all the more bitter.

How hollow any objection on her part would have sounded! How fatuous and ineffective a rebuke
from her would have been! Could she muzzle these wicked, slanderous tongues by referring to
the peculiarities of Daniel’s nature? Could he be expected to go to Philippina and give an
account of himself? A contemptuous smile came to her face when she pondered on such possibilities.

And yet, why was she heart-sore? Was it because she was at last beginning to realise that she
was unloved?

Involuntarily her eyes fell on the mask; it was still covered with the withered rose twigs.
She got up and removed them. Her hand trembled as if she were committing some evil act.

“Go home, Philippina, I don’t need you any more,” she said.

“Oi, it is late, ain’t it? I must be going,” cried Philippina. “Don’t worry, Gertrude,” she
said by way of consolation. “And don’t complain of me to your husband; he’ll git ugly if you
do. If you say anything bad about me, there’s going to be trouble here, I say. I am a perfect
fool; people git out of my way, they do. I’ve got a wicked mouth, I have; there’s no stopping
it. Well, good night.”

She rubbed her hands down over her skirt, as if she were trying to smooth out the wrinkles;
there was an element of comic caution in what she did.

                                  XIV

When Daniel came home, it was late; but he sat down by the lamp in his room and began to read
Jean Paul’s “Titan.” In the course of time his thoughts liberated themselves from the book
and went their own way. He got up, walked over to the piano, raised the lid, and struck a chord;
he listened with closed eyes: it seemed that some one was calling him. It was a sultry night;
the stillness was painful.

Again he struck the chord: bells from the lower world. They rang up through the green, grey
mists, each distinct and delicate. Each tone sent forth its accompanying group like sparks
from a skyrocket. Those related by the ties of harmony joined; those that were alien fell back
and down. And up in the distant, inaccessible heights there rang out with deceiving clarity,
like the last vision of earthly perfection, the melody of love, the melody of Eleanore.

Yet, some one was calling him; but from where? His wife? The distant, gloomy, waiting one?
He closed the piano; the echo of the noise made thereby rebounded from the church wall through
his window.

He put out the lamp, went into his bedroom, and undressed by the light of the moon. The border
of the curtain was embroidered with heavy Vitruvian scrolls, the shadows of which were reflected
on the floor; they made jagged, goalless paths. All these lines consisted after all of only
one line.

As he lay in bed his heart began to hammer. Suddenly he knew, without looking, that Gertrude
was not asleep; that she was lying there staring at the ceiling just as he was. “Gertrude!”
he called.

From the slight rustling of the pillow he concluded that she turned her face to him.

“Don’t you hear me?”

“Yes, Daniel.”

“You must give me some advice; you must help me: help me and your sister, otherwise I cannot
say what may happen.”

He stopped and listened, but there was not a stir: the stillness was absolute.

“It is at times possible to remain silent out of consideration for others,” he continued, “but
if the silence is maintained too long, deception follows, and falsehood does not fail. But
of what use is candour if it thrusts a knife into the heart of another merely in order to prepare
an unblocked path for him who is candid? What good does it do to confess if the other does
not understand? Two are already bleeding to death; shall the third meet with the same fate
merely in order to say that the matter was talked over? The truth is, too many words have already
been spoken, gruesome, shameless words, at the sound of which the innocent night of the senses
vanishes. And must one bleed to death when it becomes clearer and clearer that those are not
eternal laws against which war is being waged? How can I, dwarf that I am, attack eternal laws?
No, it is the frail, mutable customs of human society—? Are you listening, Gertrude?”

A “yes” that sounded like a note from a bird on a distant hill greeted his ears: it was the
answer to his question.

“I have reached the point where silence is no longer thinkable: there is no going any farther
without you. I will neither exaggerate nor have recourse to conventional phrases: I will not
speak of passion nor say that it could not be helped. It is just barely possible that everything
can be helped; that a man could always have done differently if he had begun soon enough. But
who can ever tell what the future may bring? And passion? There are many varieties of passion.
It is the term that every swain, washed and unwashed, uses in referring to his lusts. I had
never felt a passion for which a woman was guilty. But now one has seized me with hide and
hair. I had imagined that I could get out of it and not bring you into it; impossible! I am
burning up with this passion, Gertrude, my whole being has been changed by it; and if help
is not given me, I will be ruined.”

For a time there was a death-like stillness in the room; then he continued.

“But where is help to come from? It is strange; never until this thing happened did I know
what holds us two together, you and me. Threads are being spun back and forth between us which
no hand may touch without withering, as it is written in the Bible. There is a secret, a sacred
secret, and if I offended it I would feel as though I had strangled the unborn child in your
womb; and not only the child in your womb, but all the unborn children in my own breast. There
is in the life of each man a woman in whom his own mother becomes young again, and to whom
he is bound by an unseen, indestructible, umbilical cord. Face to face with this woman, his
love, great or small, even his hate, his indifference, becomes a phantom, just as everything
that we give out becomes a phantom compared with what is given to us. And there is another
woman who is my own creation, the fruit of my dreams; she is my picture; I have created her
from my own blood; she lay in me just as the seed lay in the bud. And she must be mine once
she has been unveiled and made known to me, or I will perish of loneliness and maddened longing.”

The extravagant man pressed his face to the pillow and groaned: “She must be mine, or I will
never get up from this bed. But if my way to her passes over you, Gertrude, I would have to
cry out with Faust: ‘Oh, had I never been born!’”

Gertrude never uttered a sound. Minute after minute passed by. Daniel, growing calmer, listened
to see if he could not hear some sound in the room. He heard nothing. The silence of his wife
began to fill him with anxiety; he rose up in bed. The moon had gone down; it was pitch dark.
He felt around for some matches, and lighted a candle. Holding it in his hand, he bent over
Gertrude. She was as pale as death; she was looking at the ceiling with wide-opened eyes.

“Put the candle out, Daniel,” she whispered, “I have something to say to you.”

He put the candle out, and set it away.

“Give me your hand, Daniel.”

He felt for her hand; he took hold of it. It was ice cold; he laid it on his breast.

“May I stay with you, Daniel? Will you tolerate me in your home?”

“Tolerate? Gertrude, tolerate?” he asked, in a lifeless, toneless voice. “You are my wife,
in the presence of God my wife,” he added, in deadened memory of the words of another.

“I will become your mother made young again, as you wish.”

“Yes, Gertrude, but how?”

“I will help you, you and Eleanore. The hearts of you two shall not bleed to death because
of me. Let me stay; that is all I ask.”

“That is more easily said than done, Gertrude.” He pressed close up to her, took her in his
arms, and sobbed with unexpected violence.

“It is hard; yes, it is hard. But your heart must not be allowed to bleed on my account.”

His head lay on her breast; he was seized with convulsions of grief that would not let him
go until break of day.

Then all of a sudden the words came like a scream from Gertrude’s lips: “I too am a creature.”

He embraced her with warmth; and she murmured: “It is hard, Daniel, but be of good cheer, be
of good cheer.”

                                  XV

Pflaum, the apothecary, had begun to feel cramped in his house near the Church of the Holy
Ghost. He had looked at several houses in the last week or two, and had finally decided on
the Schimmelweis property, which was now for sale. The apothecary shop was to remain for the
time being at its present location, and Jason Philip was likewise to keep his store and his
residence. Herr Pflaum, being the landlord, intended to occupy the first and second floors;
he had a large family.

One beautiful August afternoon, the two men—the apothecary and the bookseller—left the office
of Judge Rübsam, where they had gone to sign the papers transferring the mortgage on the Schimmelweis
property. A cloudless sky, already tinted with the blue of the descending sun, shone over the city.

Herr Pflaum looked the picture of happiness: his troubles seemed all to be behind him; he was
manifestly facing the future without fear and without care. Jason Philip Schimmelweis, on the
contrary, was plainly worried. He looked like a man who was on the down grade. There was a
great grease spot on his coat. This spot told the story of domestic troubles; it revealed the
fact that Jason Philip had a wife who had been ill in bed for months, and no physician in the
city could diagnose her case; none knew what she was suffering from. Jason Philip was angry
at his wife, at her illness, at the whole medical profession, and at the growing confusion
and disorder in his affairs.

As they crossed Ægydius Place he cast a glance of unbounded hatred at the house in which Daniel
and Gertrude lived. But he did not say anything; he merely pinched his lips and hung his head.
In so doing he noticed the grease spot on his coat, and emitted a vexed growl. “I will go along
with you, Herr Apothecary, and get a bottle of benzine,” he said, turning to his companion.
In his voice there was a noticeable trace of that reluctant and unwilling humility which the
poor display in the presence of the rich.

“Good, good,” he said, “come right along.” He blew the air before him; for he was warm. “Greetings,
greetings,” he exclaimed, and waved his hand, “what are you doing here?”

It was Herr Carovius to whom he spoke. Herr Carovius was just then standing by the fountain
of the Goose Man, rapt in the sort of reflection that was peculiar to him.

“At your service, gentlemen,” he said.

“I see there are natives who study our native art,” remarked the apothecary with an ironical
smile, and stopped. Jason Philip likewise stopped, and looked in a dazed, distraught way at
the bronze man with the two geese. Some boys were playing ball close by the fountain. When
they saw the three men looking at it, they quit playing, came up, and looked at the fountain
and the men and grinned as if there were something new to be seen.

“We have no idea what riches we possess,” said Herr Carovius.

“Quite right, quite right,” nodded the apothecary.

“I have just been trying to think what meaning this group may have,” continued Herr Carovius,
“there is undeniably a musical motif in it.”

“A musical motif?” murmured Jason Philip, to whom the very term music conveyed the idea of
something unpleasant.

“Yes, but you have got to understand it,” said Herr Carovius rather jauntily. With that he
seized the ear of a small boy who had ventured right up to his trousers’ legs; the boy screamed.

After casting an angry look at the monument, Jason Philip broke out in sudden and hearty laughter.
“Now I understand,” he stammered as he coughed, “you are a fox, a sly old dodger.”

“What do you mean, gentlemen?” asked the apothecary, who had become somewhat anxious, for he
feared that this outburst of hilarity was directed at him.

“Why, don’t you see? Don’t you understand?” panted Jason Philip with a scarlet red face, “the
two geese—? The musical motif and the two geese—? Isn’t it clear yet?”

It was clear to Herr Carovius. He stuck the index finger of his right hand in the air, and
broke out in a neighing sort of laughter. Then he took the apothecary by the arm, and in the
pauses between salvos of laughter he bleated: “Magnificent!—Under each arm a goose!—Priceless!
Say, Herr Schimmelweis, that was good. We will allow you one on that.”

The connection was now clear to the apothecary. He slapped himself on his hips and cried: “As
sure as there is a devil, that’s the best joke I ever heard in my life.”

Jason Philip Schimmelweis again got control of himself. He pressed his hands to his stomach
and said breathlessly: “Who would have thought that the Goose Man moves about among us in bodily
form?”

“Yes, who would have thought it?” said Herr Carovius as if conceding a point. “It is a capital
shot, a real discovery. We come to the simple conclusion: Goose Man! And we are capable of
drawing a conclusion, for there are three of us. According to an old proverb, Tres faciunt
collegium.”

“And they,” stuttered Jason Philip, pointing to the group, as tears of laughter trickled down
over his pudgy cheeks, “they are three, too. See, there are three of them!”

“Right,” screamed Herr Carovius, “there are three of them, too. It is all clear.”

“Have a chew, gentlemen?” said the apothecary, taking his tobacco pouch from his pocket.

“No,” replied Jason Philip, “that joke deserves a cigar.” The remark was made between gulps
of laughter.

“I suggest that we christen the story with a flask of Salvator,” said Herr Carovius.

The other two agreed to the proposal. The collegium marched across the square, stopped every
now and then, broke out in fits of insuppressible laughter, and then continued on their way
to the inn with parched throats.

It may have been only an evening shadow, or it may have been a rare inspiration that created
the impression. But the Goose Man, standing there in all his pride behind the iron railing,
seemed to follow them with his eyes, in which there were traces of sorrow and astonishment.
The boys playing ball had soon forgotten the delectable episode.

                       PHILIPPINA STARTS A FIRE

                                   I

Daniel and Eleanore had reached a stage of mutual silence; it was not the first time, however,
and it was as disagreeable now as it had been then. They would meet on the steps, and pass
each other with a mere nod. If Eleanore came in to see Gertrude, Daniel withdrew.

Once Eleanore called when Gertrude was not at home. Daniel was stubborn; nor could Eleanore
manage to make a single rational remark. He did not like her looks; he suspected her paleness
and outward, enforced cheerfulness. “It is an undignified state of affairs, Eleanore,” he exclaimed,
“we must make an end of it.”

Make an end of it? Yes—but how? This was the thought that came at once to Eleanore’s mind.
Every day the chain that bound her to him became stronger.

Daniel was also tortured by the sight of Gertrude. He felt that she was watching him and that
she was worried about him. More than that, the event was approaching that surrounded her with
an atmosphere of suffering and made forbearance obligatory. Her features, though haggard and
distorted, bore nevertheless an expression of mysterious transfiguration.

After Gertrude had noticed for some time that Daniel was being estranged from his work and
that he had lost interest in everything, she decided to have a talk with Eleanore. She did
it without preparation or tenderness.

“Can’t you see that you are ruining him?” she cried.

“You want me to be ruined, do you?” asked Eleanore, in surprised dismay. She had appreciated
at once and without difficulty the complete range of Gertrude’s renunciation.

“What difference does it make about you?” replied Gertrude harshly; “what are you getting excited
about?”

This question made Eleanore’s ideas of order and duty quake and totter. She looked at her sister
with incredulous eyes and in perfect silence. It was not the happy, gentle Gertrude that had
spoken, but the Gertrude of months ago, the lonely, loveless Gertrude.

What difference does it make about you? Why are you getting excited? That was equivalent to
saying: Make short work of your life, and don’t draw out the episode in his life any longer
than you have to.

Eleanore took courage to carry out the plan she had had in mind for a long while and in which
she placed her last hope.

One evening she went to Daniel and said: “I should like to go with you to Eschenbach, Daniel,
and visit your mother.”

“Why do you wish to do that?” he asked in amazement. He and his mother did not write to each
other: that was due first of all to their natures, and secondly to the condition in which each
was now living. But he knew that Eleanore received an occasional letter from Eschenbach which
she answered without consulting him. This had never seemed strange to him until now.

A few days later she repeated her wish; Daniel granted it. They decided upon the following
Sunday for the excursion.

                                  II

A warm, languid October sun shone over the land; the forests presented a gorgeous array of
autumnal foliage; the fields lay stretched in barren rows; along the hills of Franconia floated
clouds that looked like down driven by the wind.

They had taken the train as far as Triesdorf; from there they went on to Merckendorf by stage
coach. The rest of the distance they walked. Daniel pointed to a flock of geese that were trotting
around on the shore of an abandoned pond, and said: “That is our national bird; his cackle
is our music. But it doesn’t sound so bad.”

A peasant woman passed by, and made the sign of the cross before the picture of a saint: “It
is strange that everything has suddenly become Catholic,” said Eleanore.

Daniel nodded, and replied that when his father moved to Eschenbach a few other Protestant
families were living there, all of whom joined in Protestant worship. Later, he said, most
of them emigrated, leaving his mother as the only Protestant, so far as he knew, in the neighbourhood.
But, Daniel remarked in the course of conversation, his mother had never had any unpleasant
experience on this account, and he himself had frequently gone to church, primarily of course
to hear the organ, though no one had ever taken offence at this. “There is a totally different
type of people here,” he added, “people who lay greater stress on externals than we do, and
yet are more secretive.”

Eleanore looked at the church tower whose Spanish-green roof rose from the valley. After a
long silence she said: “I wonder whether it will be a boy or a girl, Gertrude’s baby? Oh, a
girl, of course. Some day it will be in the world, and will look at me with eyes, with real
eyes. How strange that a child of yours should look at me!”

“What is there strange about that? Many children are born, many look at some one.”

“What are you going to call it?” asked Eleanore.

“If it is blond and has blue eyes like yours, I am going to call it Eva.”

“Eva!” cried Eleanore, “no, that won’t do.” She herself had chosen the name of Eva for the
child of the maid at the Rüdigers’. That he should now want to call Gertrude’s child by the
same name seemed so strange to her.

“Why not Eva?” he asked. “There is something back of this objection on your part. Women always
have something up their sleeve. Out with it! Why do you object to Eva?”

Eleanore smiled, and shook her head. She would have liked to make a clean confession to him,
but she was not certain how he would take it: she was afraid he would turn back, enraged at
her cunning. Once the child had been born and lay there before him, it would captivate him,
and she knew it.

They had stopped and were looking out over the sunlit plains. “How alone we are!” said Daniel.

“Everything is easier here,” said Eleanore thoughtfully. “If one could only forget where one
comes from, it would be easy to be happy.”

                                  III

“I have been away for seven years,” said Daniel as they passed through the village gate. Everything
seemed so ridiculously small—the Town Hall, the Church, the Market Place, and the Eschenbach
Fountain. He had also pictured the houses and streets to himself as being cleaner and better
kept. As he passed over the three steps at the front gate, each one of which was bulging out
like a huge oyster shell, and entered the shop with its smell of spices, the past dwindled
to nothing. Marian was so happy she could not speak. She reached one of her hands to Daniel,
the other to Eleanore. Her first question was about Gertrude.

In the room sat a four-year-old child with blond hair and marvellous blue eyes. Its little
face was of the most delicate beauty, its body was delicately formed.

“Who is the child? To whom does it belong?” asked Daniel.

“It is your own child, Daniel,” said his mother.

“My own child! Yes, for heaven’s sakes—!” He blushed, turned pale, looked first at his mother,
and then at Eleanore.

“It is your own flesh and blood. Don’t you ever think of Meta any more?”

“Of Meta.... Oh, I see. And you, you adopted the child? And you, Eleanore, knew all about this?
And you, Mother, took the child?” He sat down at the table, and covered his face with his hands.
“That was what Eleanore had in mind?” he murmured timidly to himself. “And I presume that to
make the story complete the child’s name is Eva ...?”

“Yes, Eva,” whispered Eleanore, touched by the situation. “Go to your father, Eva, and shake
hands with him.”

The child did as it had been told. Then Marian related to her son how Eleanore had brought
the child to Eschenbach, and how Meta had married and gone to America with her husband.

Every look, every movement on the part of Marian showed how great her love for the child was:
she guarded it as the apple of her eye.

The circle of wonderful events closed in around Daniel’s heart. Where responsibility lay and
where guilt, where will power ended and fate began, Daniel could not say. To express gratitude
would be vulgar; to conceal his emotions was difficult. He was ashamed of himself in the presence
of both of the women. But when he looked at the living creature, his shame lost all meaning.
And how exalted Eleanore appeared in his eyes just then! She seemed to him equally amiable
and worthy of respect, whether he regarded her as an active or as a sentient, feeling woman.
He almost shuddered at the thought that she was so near him; that what she had done had been
done for him filled him with humility.

The strangest of all, however, was little Eva herself. He could not see enough of her; he was
amazed at the trick nature had played: a human being of the noblest mien and form had been
born of a gawky, uncouth servant girl. There was something divinely graceful and airy about
the child. She had well-formed hands, delicate wrists, shapely ankles, and a clear, transparent
forehead, on which a network of bluish veins spread out in various directions. Her laughter
was the purest of music; and in her walk and gestures in general there was a rhythm which promised
much for her future poise and winsomeness.

Daniel took Eleanore through the village and out to the old town gate. It was the time of the
annual fair; Eschenbach was crowded. They returned on this account to the more quiet streets,
and finally entered the church. The sexton came up and admitted Daniel to the choir. Daniel
sat down at the organ; the sexton pumped the bellows; Eleanore took a seat on one of the little
benches near the side wall.

Daniel’s eyes became fixed; his fingers touched the keys with supernatural power; he began
to improvise. There were two motifs following each other in close succession; both were in
fifths; they were united into one; they ran from the low to the high registers, from Hell through
the World to Heaven. A hymn crowned the improvised composition.

He stood with Eleanore for a long while in the stillness. The songs echoed from the lofty arches.
It seemed to both of them that the blood of the one was flowing into the body of the other.
Incidents of the past faded from their memory; they seemed to have completed a long journey;
there was no voice to remind them of their return; they were completely liberated from duties
and made immune from care.

                                  IV

Eleanore was to sleep with Marian and Eva; Daniel was to have his old room. He showed it to
Eleanore; they stepped to the window and looked out. They saw Eva down in the yard dancing
back and forth barefooted on a wooden balustrade. She kept her equilibrium by holding out her
arms. The grace of her movements was so fairy-like that Daniel and Eleanore smiled at each
other in astonishment.

After dinner Daniel went out in front of the house; Marian and Eleanore sat for a while at
the window; the light of the lamp shone behind them. Later they came out into the street and
joined Daniel. Marian, however, was uneasy on account of the child. She said that Eva had been
restless all day and might cry for her. “Stay out just as long as you like; I will leave the
door open,” she said, and went back.

Daniel and Eleanore returned to the fair. It was still early in the evening, but the crowd
had disappeared. They sauntered around among the booths, and stopped to listen to the harangue
of a mountebank or to watch peasant boys shooting at figures of various kinds and a glass ball
that danced on a jet of water. There was a sea of red and green lanterns; sky-rockets were
hissing into the air from the rampart; musicians were playing in the cafés, while hilarious
tipplers sang or hooted as the spirit moved them.

They came to a grass plot, the sole illumination of which was the light from a circus wagon.
On the steps of the wagon sat a man in tricot holding the head of a black poodle between his knees.

“Those were the last inhabitants of the earth,” said Daniel, after they had crossed the square.
The noise died away, the gaudy lights disappeared.

“How far are you going?” asked Eleanore, without the remotest trace of fear in her voice.

“I am going on until I am with you,” was the quick reply.

The indistinct outline of a bridge became visible; under it the water flowed noiselessly. The
path had a yellowish shimmer; there were no stars in the heavens. Suddenly the path seemed
to come to an end; at the end of it were trees there that seemed to be moving closer and closer
together; it became darker and darker; they stopped.

“We have told each other our whole story,” said Daniel. “In the way of words we owe each other
nothing. We have had enough of talk; there has been no lack of sorrow and enough of error.
We can no longer act differently, and therefore we dare not act differently any longer.”

“Be still,” whispered Eleanore, “I don’t like your wrangling; what you say is so unpeaceful
and fiendish. Yesterday I dreamed that you were lying on your knees and had your folded hands
uplifted. Then I loved you—very much.”

“Do you need dreams in order to love me, girl? I don’t; I need you just as you are. I will
soon be thirty years old, Eleanore. A man never really wakes up until he is thirty; it is then
that he conquers the world. You know what rests within me; you suspect it. You know too how
I need you; you feel it. You are my soul; you are created out of my music; without you I am
an empty hull, a patchwork, a violin without strings.”

“Oh, Daniel, I believe you, and yet it is not all true,” replied Eleanore. He thought he could
see in the darkness her mockingly ironical smile: “Somewhere, I am almost tempted to say in
God, it is not true. If we were better, if we were beings in the image of God and acting in
God’s ways, we would have to desist from our own ways. Then it would be wonderful to live:
it would be like living above the clouds, happy, at peace, pure.”

“Does that come from your heart, Eleanore?”

“My dear, dear man! My heart, like yours, has been beclouded and bewitched. I cannot give you
up. I have settled my accounts. In my soul I am entirely conscious of my guilt. I know what
I am doing and assume full responsibility for my action. There is no use to struggle any longer;
the water is already swirling over our heads. I simply want to say that you should not delude
yourself into believing that we have risen up above other people by what we have done, that
we have deserved the gratitude of fate. No, Daniel, what we are doing is precisely what all
those do who fall. Let me stay with you, dearest; kiss me, kiss me to death.”

                                   V

Philippina had promised Eleanore to look after Jordan and Gertrude on Sunday.

As she was crossing Five Points, she went into a shop, and asked for three pfennigs’ worth
of court plaster. While doing some housework she had scratched herself on a nail. The clerk
gave her the plaster, and asked her what was the news.

“Ah, you poor bloke, you want to know the very latest, don’t you?” she snarled, and then grinned
with blatant self-complacency.

“The later the better,” said the fellow with a lustful smirk.

Philippina bent over the counter, and whispered: “They’re taking their wedding trip to-day.”
She laughed in a lewd, imbecile way. The clerk stared at her with wide-opened eyes and mouth.
Two hours later the news was in the mouth of every hussy in that section of the city.

Gertrude was in bed. The day woman who did the cooking gave Philippina a plate with Jordan’s
dinner on it: Meat, vegetables, and a few sour plums. Philippina ate two of the plums on the
way up to his room, and licked her fingers.

The whole forenoon she spent rummaging around in Eleanore’s room; she looked through the cabinets,
the presses, and the pockets of Eleanore’s dresses. As it began to grow dark, Jordan suddenly
entered, in hat and great coat, and looked on in speechless and enraged amazement at the girl’s
inexplicable curiosity.

Philippina took the broom from the corner, and began to sweep with all her might. While sweeping
she sang, out of tune, impudently, and savagely:

    “No fire, no coal, so warmly glows
    As secret love that no one knows.”

Jordan went away without saying anything. He had forgotten to lock his room. Hardly had Philippina
noticed that he had left the key in the door, when she opened it and went in.

She spied around with cowardly, superstitious eyes. She was afraid of the old inspector, as
she would have been afraid of an invincible magician. For such cases she had a number of formulas
at her tongue’s end. She murmured: “Put earth in, close the lid, hold your thumbs, spit on
your shoe.” She spat on her shoe.

She then began to examine the cabinet, for she believed that it contained all of Jordan’s secrets.
But she could not open the lock, try as she might. She then went at the writing desk; she was
angry. There she found, in plain wooden frames, the pictures of Gertrude and Eleanore. She
ran out, got a large needle, came back, and stuck it in the picture of Eleanore right between
the eyes. Then she took Gertrude’s picture, and after she had held it for a while, looking
at it with her gloomy eyes, she noticed that it was spotted with blood. The plaster had come
off her finger, and the finger had started to bleed.

“Come now, Philippina,” she said to herself, “go and see how Gertrude is making out.” Entering
Gertrude’s room, she found her asleep. Creeping up to her bed on her tiptoes, she took a chair,
straddled it, leaned her chin on the back, and stared fixedly at the face of the young woman,
now just barely visible in the darkness of the room.

Gertrude dreamed that a black bird was hovering over her and picking at her breast with its
pointed beak. She screamed and woke up.

Shortly after this Gertrude had to send for the midwife.

During the night, Gertrude gave birth to a girl; she had suffered terrible pains. Philippina
had seen and heard it all. She had run back and forth, from the kitchen to the bedroom and
from the bedroom to the kitchen, for hours; she was like an insane person; she kept mumbling
something to herself. What she mumbled no one knew.

Gertrude had called in vain for Daniel; in vain had she waited for him the whole day.

“Where in the world can Daniel be?” cried Philippina, “where can Daniel be with his damned
Eleanore?” She sat in the corner with her hands folded, her hair tangled and knotted, her face
distorted with the grimaces of madness. The midwife was still busy with Gertrude; the new-born
child was crying pitifully.

                                  VI

Daniel held the child in his arms, and looked at it carefully but without love. “You little
worm, what do you want in this world?” he said to his daughter. He still had his hat on; so
had Eleanore. Both of them were dressed just as they came from the station; they were embarrassed
and excited at what had happened. Eleanore was exceedingly pale; her great eyes looked dreamy;
her body seemed of almost boyish slenderness. At times she smiled; then the smile died away,
as if she did not have the courage to appear so cheerful.

Inspector Jordan was also in the room, acting as he had always acted since his bankruptcy—like
a guest who feels that he is a burden to the family. He said very humbly: “I have suggested
to Gertrude that she call the child Agnes after my deceased wife.”

“Very well, let’s call her Agnes,” said Daniel.

Gertrude asked that the child be brought to her so that she could nurse it. Eleanore carried
it over and laid it at her breast. As the hands of the sisters touched, Gertrude looked up
quickly: there was an indescribable expression of thoughtfulness, knowingness, and kindliness
on her face. Eleanore fell on her knees, threw her arms around Gertrude’s neck, and kissed
her passionately. Gertrude reached out her left hand to Daniel; he gave her his right hand
with some hesitancy. Jordan was radiant with joy: “It is so good, children, to see that you
all love each other, so good,” he said with visible emotion.

“Daniel, you must move up into Father’s quarters at once,” said Gertrude. “Your piano, bed,
and all your things must be taken up, and Eleanore will move into your room. I have already
spoken to Father about it, and he feels that it will be a good arrangement. He will be very
quiet so as not disturb you. The crying of the baby would make it impossible for you to work.”

“It is a very practical solution of the problem,” said Jordan, speaking for Daniel, and looked
down at his frayed coat-sleeves, which he tried to conceal by hiding them behind his back.
“I am also glad that Eleanore will be with you. A man, you know, has a habit of going to bed
long before a woman quits her daily work. Is that not true, my son-in-law?” With that he clapped
Daniel on the shoulder.

“During Gertrude’s confinement I will sleep here in her room,” said Eleanore, avoiding Daniel’s
eyes as she said so. “She cannot stay alone, and it costs too much to keep a nurse.”

“Exactly,” said Jordan, and went to the door. But he turned around: “I should like to know,”
he asked in a tone of great grief, “who has been at Gertrude’s and Eleanore’s pictures. The
one is covered with spots of blood, and the other has a hole punched in it. Isn’t that very
strange? I can’t understand it: I can’t imagine who could have done me this injury.” He shook
his head and went out.

“Do you realise that to-morrow is the first of November?” asked Gertrude. “Have you the rent
ready? Did Father make any money last month?”

“No, he didn’t,” replied Eleanore, “but I have almost enough to pay the landlord.”

It was no longer possible to depend upon Jordan. He was supported by his children, and seemed
to find the arrangement neither strange nor humiliating. At times he would allude in a mysterious
way to a big enterprise that was going to claim the whole of his attention and bring him a
great deal of money and honour. But if you asked him about it, he would wrinkle his brow and
put his finger to his lips.

“I owe the man more than the rent,” said Daniel. He kissed Gertrude on the forehead, and went out.

“Put the child in the cradle, and come over here,” said Gertrude to Eleanore, as soon as Daniel
had closed the door behind him. Eleanore did as she had been told. The baby was asleep. She
took it up, looked at its wrinkled face, and carried it to the cradle. Then she went over to
Gertrude’s bed.

Gertrude seized her by her hands, and drew her down to her with more strength than one would
have imagined her to have just then. The eyes of the two women were drawn close together. “You
must make him happy, Eleanore,” she said in a hoarse voice, and with a sickly glimmer in her
eyes. “If you do not, it would be better if one of us were dead.”

Despite her terror, Eleanore loosened Gertrude’s hold on her with great gentleness. “It is
hard to discuss that subject, Gertrude; it is hard to live and hard to think about it all.”
Eleanore breathed these words into Gertrude’s ears.

“You must make him happy; you must make him happy! Repeat it to yourself and keep it in your
mind every day, every hour, every minute. You must, you must, you must.” Gertrude was almost
beside herself.

“I will learn how to do it,” replied Eleanore slowly and seriously. “I am ... I hardly know
what I am or how I feel. But be patient with me, Gertrude, I will learn how to make him happy.”
She looked into Gertrude’s face with anxious curiosity. Gertrude however pressed her hands
against Eleanore’s cheeks, drew her down to her again, and kissed her with unusual fervour.
“I too must learn how,” whispered Gertrude, “I must learn the whole of life from the very beginning.”

Some one knocked at the door. The midwife came in to look after her patient.

                                  VII

At that time the superstition still prevailed that the window in the room of a woman in confinement
must never be opened. The air in the room was consequently heavy and ill-smelling. Eleanore
could hardly stand it during the day; during the night she could not sleep. Moreover natural
daylight could not enter the room, and, as if it were not already gloomy enough, the window
had been hung with green curtains which were kept half drawn.

The most unpleasant feature of all, however, was the interminable round of visits from the
women: custom had decreed that they should not be turned away. The wife of the director of
the theatre came in; Martha Rübsam came in, and so did the wife of Councillor Kirschner, and
the wives of the butcher, baker, preacher, and physician. And of course the wife of the apothecary
called. No one of them failed to pour out an abundance of gratuitous advice or go into ecstasies
over the beauty of the baby. Once Daniel came in just as such an assemblage was in the sick
room. He looked first at one, then at another, threw back his head, and left without saying a word.

Herr Seelenfromm and M. Rivière were likewise not frightened by the distance; they called.
Eleanore met them in the hall, and got rid of them by the usual method. And one day even Herr
Carovius came around to inquire how mother and child were doing. Philippina received him; and
Philippina was having a hard time of it at present: she was not allowed to enter Gertrude’s
room; Gertrude would have nothing to do with her; she refused to see her.

So that she might not get too far behind with her work—for it meant her daily bread—Eleanore
pushed the table up to the window, and despite the poor light, kept on writing. In the evening
she would sit by the lamp and write, although she was so tired that she could hardly keep her
eyes open.

After three days, Gertrude had no milk for the baby; it had to be fed with a bottle. It would
cry for hours without stopping. And as soon as it was quiet, its clothes had to be washed or
its bath prepared, or Gertrude wanted something, or one of the pestiferous visitors came in.
Eleanore had to lay her work aside; in the evening she would fall across the bed and sleep
with painful soundness for an hour or two. If the baby did not wake her by its hungry howling,
the bad air did. Her head ached. Yet she concealed her weakness, her longing, her oppression.
Not even Daniel noticed that there was anything wrong with her.

She had very little opportunity to talk with him. And yet there was probably not another pair
of eyes in the whole world that could be so eloquent and communicative with admonition, promise,
request, and cordial resignation. One evening they met each other at the kitchen door: “Eleanore,
I am stifling,” he whispered to her.

She laid her hands on his shoulder, and looked at him in silence.

“Come with me,” he urged with a stupid air. “Come with me! Let’s run off.”

Eleanore smiled and thought to herself: “The demands of his soul are always a few leagues in
advance of the humanly possible.”

The next morning he stormed into the room. Eleanore was only half dressed. With an expression
of wrath flitting across her face she reached for a towel and draped it about her shoulders.
He sat down on Gertrude’s bed, and let loose a torrent of words: “I am going to set Goethe’s
‘Wanderers Sturmlied’ to music! I am planning to make it a companion piece to the ‘Harzreise’
and publish the two in a cycle. I have not slept the whole night. The main motif is glorious.”
He began to hum it over in a falsetto voice: “‘Oh, mortal man, if genius does not forsake thee,
neither rain nor storm can breathe upon thy heart!’ How do you like that?”

Gertrude looked at him inspired.

“I should have a good drink on that idea,” he continued; “I have rarely felt such a longing
for a flask of old wine. It’s a bloody shame that I can’t afford it. But you wait till I get
a little money, and you will see a bouteille of Tokay on my table every day.”

“My God, just listen how he raves! He’s going to have the best there is,” said Philippina angrily,
as she entered the room in her stocking feet and heard Daniel’s remarks.

Daniel told her to keep her mouth shut and leave the room at once. He paid no attention to
her reply, and cried out: “Something has got to happen. If I can’t drink, I at least want to
dance. Dance with me, Eleanore; don’t be afraid, come, dance with me!” He threw his arms around
her, pressed her to his bosom, sang a waltz melody, and drew the struggling and embarrassed
girl across the floor.

Philippina broke out in her slimy, malicious laughter, and then shrieked at the top of her
voice that Frau Kirschner was outside and wanted to see the Kapellmeister’s wife. Gertrude
made an imploring gesture, the full meaning of which Daniel easily grasped. The baby began
to cry, Eleanore tore herself away from Daniel’s embrace, arranged her hair, and hastened over
to the cradle. Philippina opened the door to let the Councillor’s wife in. Just then a violent
discussion was started in the hall. One could hear the voice of Jordan and that of some strange
man.

It was the furniture dealer who had come to collect the money for the cradle. He was boiling
with the rage that cares not how it may be expressed: he said he had already been there four
times, and each time he was put off. The truth is, Daniel was very hard up.

The Councillor’s wife took Daniel to one side, and made him an offer of a loan of two hundred
marks. Daniel was silent; he bit his lips, and looked down at the floor. She scolded him: “You
are always your own worst enemy. Now be reasonable, Nothafft, I will send the money over at
noon. If you have any left, you may pay it back.”

Daniel went out, and gave the blustering furniture dealer his last ten-mark piece.

Frau Kirschner had brought a flask of Tokay wine with her for Gertrude. Tokay was regarded
at that time as a sort of elixir of life.

“You see, so quickly are wishes fulfilled,” said Gertrude to Daniel in the evening, when he
came into her room. She poured out a glass for him.

“Have you any bills to settle?” he asked, looking partly at Eleanore, partly at Gertrude, and
striking his wallet, then bulging with notes. “It’s Court Councillor’s money,” he said, “real
Court Councillor’s money. How beautiful it looks, lousy fine, eh? And upon that stuff the salvation
of my soul depends!” He threw the money on Gertrude’s bed, stuck out his tongue, and turned
away in disgust.

Eleanore handed him the glass of Tokay; her eyes glistened with tears.

“No, Eleanore,” he said, “I have trifled it away. In my arrogance I imagined I could do something;
I thought I could get somewhere. I sit down, brood over my ideas, and find that they are all
wind-eggs. I have the feeling that I have taken a false oath. What good am I, Eleanore, what
good am I, Gertrude?”

“Ah, take a drink, and perhaps your troubles will leave you,” said Eleanore, and stroked his
brow with her hand.

Gertrude called out to her: “Quit that! Put that glass away!” She spoke so harshly that Eleanore
sprang back, and Daniel got up.

“Leave me alone for a while,” she said. Daniel and Eleanore left the room.

Eleanore went into the living room, sat down at the table, and laid her head in her hands.
“What can we do now?” she said to Daniel. The violin tone in her voice had something unusually
touching about it.

Daniel set the candle he was carrying in the bay window. He bent down over the table, and took
Eleanore by her small wrists. “Accept the bitter for the sake of the sweet,” he murmured. “Believe
in me, believe in yourself, believe in the higher law. It is not possible that I merely imagined
that there is a winged creature for me. I must have something to cling to, something indestructible,
ah, even superhuman.”

“You must have something superhuman to cling to,” Eleanore repeated after him. She could not
help but think that he had already made superhuman demands of the other woman, his wife, her
sister, Gertrude. She raised her finger as if to warn him: it was a gesture of infinite timidity.

But Daniel scarcely saw what she had done. In his arrogant presumption and passion he could
have smashed the universe to pieces, and then re-created it merely in order to mould this one
creature after his own desires. He would have made her of boundless pliability, and yet active
in her love for him; he would have had her spurn venerable commandments in a spirit of self-glorification,
and yet cherish unequivocal confidence in him, the creature of need and defiance; and she would
be cheerful withal.

“I am cold,” whispered Eleanore, peering into the dark shadows of the room.

                                 VIII

To know that these eyes and their pure passion were so close to him; to be able to touch this
cool, sincere, mutely-eloquent mouth with his lips; to be able to hold these hands in which
passion resided as it does in the speechless unrest of a messenger; to be able to press this
throbbing figure with all its willingness and hesitation to his bosom—it was almost too much
for Daniel. It involved pain; it aroused an impatience, a thirst for more and more. His daily
work was interrupted; his thoughts, plans, and arrangements were torn from their connection.

He spoke to people whom he knew as though they were total strangers; he amazed those whom he
did not know by the loyal confidence he voluntarily placed in them. He forgot to put on his
hat when he walked along the street; the distraction he revealed was the source of constant
merriment to passersby and on-lookers. He would not know when it was noon; he would come home
at three o’clock, thinking it was twelve. Once he came nearly being run over by a team of galloping
horses; another time he had his umbrella taken straight from his hands without noticing it.
This took place at the Ludwig Station.

“Oh, winged creature, winged creature,” he would say to himself, and smile like a somnambulist.
Deep in his soul a sea of tones was surging. He listened to them with complete assurance, angry
though he would become at times because of the failure of this or that. He was so absorbed
in himself, so enmeshed in his own thoughts, that he scarcely saw the sky above him; houses,
people, animals, and the things that are after all necessary to human existence existed only
in his dreams, if at all.

Winged creature, winged creature!

                                  IX

As soon as Gertrude could get up and go about, Eleanore accepted an invitation from Martha
Rübsam to visit her aunt, Frau Seelenfromm, in Altdorf. The visit was to last two weeks. Eleanore
looked upon it as a test that would determine whether she could do anything on her own account
now: whether she could get along without Daniel.

But she saw that she could no longer live without him. In the lonely house she came to the
conclusion that her love was great enough to enable her to bear the monstrous burden fate had
been trying to impose upon her. She saw that neither flight nor concealment nor anything else
could save her, could save Daniel, could give back to Gertrude what she had lost, what had
been taken from her.

There were times, to be sure, when she asked herself whether it was all true and real; whether
it could be possible. She walked in darkness surrounded by demons. Her being was plunged into
the deepest and strangest bewilderment; confusion enveloped her; there was sorrow in the effort
she made to avert the inexorable.

But in one of her sleepless nights she thought she was covering Daniel’s mind with a flame
of fire; she thought she heard his voice calling out to her with a power she had never known
before.

No one she had ever seen was so vivacious, so alive as he. Her slumbering fancy had awakened
at the sound of his voice and the feel of his warm breath. She felt that people owed him a
great deal; and since they did not seem inclined to pay their debts, it was her duty to make
restitution to Daniel for their neglect.

She could not survey the ways of his art: the musician in him made neither a strange nor a
special appeal to her. She grasped and felt only him himself; to her he was Daniel. She grasped
and felt only the man who was born to do lofty, the loftiest, deeds and who passed by the base
and evil in men in silence; who knew that he had been chosen but was obliged to renounce the
privilege of ruling; who was always in full armour, ready to defend a threatened sanctuary.

Of such a man, of such a knight and warrior, she had dreamt even when a child. For although
she looked at things and circumstances with the eyes of truth, her soul had always been full
of secret dreams and visions. Back of her unceasing and unfading activity the genii of romanticism
had been spinning their bright-coloured threads; it was they that had formed the glass case
in which she had lived for so long, impervious to the touch of mortal hand, immune to the flames
of love.

The morning following that night she explained to her friend that she was going home. Martha
tried in vain to get her to stay: she was almost ill with longing.

Martha let her go; she had the very saddest of thoughts concerning Eleanore’s future; for the
unhappy incidents of that unhappy home had reached Martha’s sensitive ears. She did not worry
because of moral principles; she was not that kind of a woman. She worried over Eleanore out
of genuine affection: it pained her to know that she could no longer admire Eleanore.

                                   X

In the meanwhile Daniel had told his wife that a child of his was living with his mother in
Eschenbach, and that he had known nothing about it until Eleanore took him over there. He told
her the child’s name and how old it was and who its mother was, and gave her a detailed description
of that celebrated New Year’s Night on which he had embraced the maid. He told her how he had
stood out in front of her house that night and longed for her with all his senses, and how
he felt, when he looked at little Eva, as if Providence had only seemed to use the body of
a strange woman, and that Eva was in reality Gertrude’s own child.

To this Gertrude replied: “I never want to see that child.”

“You will be ashamed of having made this remark once you do see the child,” replied Daniel.
“You should not be envious of a creature whom God brought into the world so that the world
may be more beautiful.”

“Don’t speak of God!” said Gertrude quickly and with uplifted hand. Then, after a pause, during
which Daniel looked at her angrily, she added with a painful smile: “The very idea: I, jealous,
envious! O no, Daniel.”

The way she pressed her hands to her bosom convinced Daniel, and quite emphatically too, that
she did not know the feeling of envy or jealousy. He said nothing, but remained in her room
for an unusually long while. When she was cutting bread, she let the knife fall. He sprang
and picked it up for her. He had never done this before. Gertrude looked at him as he bent
over. Her eyes became dim, flared up, and then became dim again.

“Don’t speak of God!” Somehow Daniel could not get these words out of his mind.

When Eleanore returned she was terrified at the expression on Daniel’s face. He seemed dazed;
his eyes were inflamed as though he too had not been able to sleep; he could hardly talk. Finally
he demanded that she swear to him never to go away again.

She hesitated to take an oath of this kind, but he became more and more insistent, and she
took it. He threw his arms about her with passionate impetuosity; just then the door opened,
and Gertrude stood on the threshold. Daniel hastened to her, and wanted to take her by the
hand; but she stepped back and back until she reached her bedroom.

It was evening; covers were laid for four: Jordan was to take dinner with them that evening.
He came down promptly; Eleanore brought in the food; but Gertrude was nowhere to be found.
Eleanore went in to her. She was sitting by the cradle, combing her hair with slow deliberation.

“Won’t you eat with us, Gertrude?” asked Eleanore.

Gertrude did not seem to hear her. In a few minutes she got up, walked over to the mirror on
the wall, pressed her hair with the palms of her hands to her two cheeks, and looked in the
mirror with wide-opened eyes.

“Come, Gertrude,” said Eleanore, rather timidly, “Daniel is waiting.”

“That they are in there again,” murmured Gertrude, “it seems like a sin.” She turned around,
and beckoned to Eleanore.

Eleanore went over to her in perfect obedience. Gertrude threw her arms around her neck until
her left temple touched Eleanore’s right one with only her hair hanging between them like a
curtain. Gertrude again looked in the mirror; her eyes became rigid; she said: “Oh yes, you
are more beautiful, much more beautiful, a hundred times more beautiful.”

Just then the child began to stir, and since Gertrude was still standing immovable before the
mirror, Eleanore went to the cradle. Hardly had Gertrude noticed what she had done, when she
rushed out and cried with terrifying rudeness: “Don’t touch that child! Don’t touch it, I say!”
She then went up, snatched the child from the cradle, and went back to her bed with it, saying
gently and yet threateningly: “It belongs to me, to me and to no one else.”

Since this incident, Eleanore knew that a fearful change had come over her sister. She did
not know whether other people noticed it; she did not even know whether Daniel was aware of
it. But she knew it, and it frightened her.

One afternoon, about sunset, Eleanore came in and found Gertrude on her knees in the hall scrubbing
the floor. “You shouldn’t do that, Gertrude,” said Eleanore, “you are not strong enough for
that kind of work yet.”

Gertrude made no reply; she kept on scrubbing.

“Why don’t you dress better?” continued Eleanore; “Daniel does not like to see you going about
in that ugly old brown skirt. Believe me, it makes him angry.”

Gertrude straightened up on her knees, and said with disconcerting humility: “You dress up;
it is not well for two to look so nice. What shall I do?” she asked, and let her head sink.
“You wear your gold chain and the corals in your ears. That pleases me; that is the way it
should be. But I have no gold chain; I have no corals. If I had them, I wouldn’t wear them;
and if I wore them, it would not be right.”

“Ah, Gertrude, what are you talking about?” asked Eleanore.

The ringing of the church bells could be heard in the hall. Gertrude folded her hands in prayer.
There was a stern solemnity in her action. In her kneeling position she looked as though she
were petrified.

Eleanore went into the room with a heavy heart.

                                  XI

Through the dividing walls Daniel and Eleanore were irresistibly drawn to each other. They
accompanied each other in their thoughts; each divined the other’s wishes and feelings. If
he came home in a bad humour, if she was anxious and restless, they both needed merely to sit
down by each other to regain their peace.

If Daniel’s power of persuasion was great, Eleanore’s example was equally great. A dish would
displease Daniel. Eleanore would not only eat it, but would praise it; and Daniel would then
eat it too, and like it. Gertrude had prepared the food, and Eleanore felt it was her duty
to spare her sister as much humiliation as possible. But Gertrude did not want to be treated
indulgently. She would lay her knife and fork aside, and say: “Daniel is right. It is not fit
to eat.” She would get up and go into the kitchen and make a porridge that would take the place
of the inedible dish. That was the way she acted: she was always resigned, diligent, and quiet;
she made every possible effort to do her duty. Daniel and Eleanore looked at each other embarrassed;
but their embarrassment was transformed in time into mutual ecstasy: they could not keep from
looking at each other.

There was nothing of the seducer in Daniel’s sexual equipment. On the other hand he was dependent
to a very high degree upon his wishes and desires; and in his passionate obstinacy he not infrequently
lacked consideration. Eleanore however possessed profound calmness, cheerful certainty, and
a goodly measure of indulgence; and she knew exactly how to make use of these traits. The claims
that were made on her patience and moderation would have harassed a heart steeled in the actualities
of politics and flooded with worldly experiences. She however found a safe and unerring guide
in the instincts of her nature, and was never tired.

The trait in her to which he took most frequent and violent exception was what he called her
plebeian caution; she seemed determined to pay due and conventional respect to appearances.
He did not wish to lay claim to the hours of his love as though they were a stolen possession;
he did not wish to sneak across bridges and through halls; he did not wish to whisper; he did
not wish to lie in wait for a secret tryst; he rebelled at the thought of coming and going
in fear and trembling.

There is not the slightest use to investigate all the secrecies between Daniel and Eleanore.
It will serve no useful end to infringe with unskilled hand on the work of the evil spirit
Asmodeus, who makes walls transparent and allows his devotees to look into bed chambers. It
would be futile to act as the spy of Daniel and show how he left the attic room in the dead
of night and crept down the stairs in felt slippers. We have no desire to hear of Eleanore’s
pangs of conscience and her longings, her flights, her waiting in burning suspense; to relate
how she endeavoured to avert the inevitable to-day and succumbed to-morrow would be to tell
an idle tale. It is best to overlook all these things; to draw a curtain of mercy before them;
for they are so human and so wholly without a trace of the miraculous.

It will be enough to touch upon a single night on which Daniel went to Eleanore’s room and
said: “I have never yet seen you as a lover sees his beloved.” Eleanore was sitting on the
edge of her bed, trembling. She blew out the candle. Daniel heard the rustling of her clothes.
She went up to the stove and opened the front draft door. There was a red hot coal fire in
the stove. She stood before him with the purple glow of the burning coals upon her body, slender,
delicate, nude. Her figure, peculiarly beautiful, was filled with the most harmonious of inspiration;
it was ensouled. And since the play of her limbs, as they became conscious of the light, was
suddenly stiffened with shame, Eleanore bent her head over to the wall where the mask of Zingarella,
which he had given her, was hanging. She took it down, and held it with both hands so that
the purple glow from the stove fell also on it. As she did this she smiled in a way that cut
Daniel to the very heart: something eternal came over him; he had a premonition of the end;
he feared fate.

At the same time Gertrude rose up in her bed, and stared with eyes as if she were beholding,
who knows whom? at the door. After she had stared for a long while, she got up, opened the
door, went out into the hall without making the slightest noise, came back, went out again,
came back again, and got in bed, left the door open, sat upright and gazed at the closed door
across the hall behind which she knew Daniel and Eleanore were. Her hair hung down in two long
braids on either side of her head. Her pale face in this frame of black hair above it and on
both sides of it looked like a wax figure in an old black frame.

Of the pictures that were being formed in her mind and soul, there was not a single twitching
of the muscles to indicate what they looked like.

For her the entire world lay behind that door. It seemed to her that she could no longer endure
the knowledge she had of what was taking place. In her maddened imagination she saw women stealing
through the halls of the house; in every corner there was a woman, and with every woman there
was a man; they embraced each other, and sank their teeth into each other’s flesh. It was all
as criminal as it was irrational; it was a shame and an abomination to behold. Everywhere she
looked she saw reprehensible nudeness; all clothes seemed to be made of glass; she could look
neither at a man nor at a woman without turning pale. She had only one refuge: the cradle of
her child. She would rush to it and pray. But as soon as her prayer was ended she again felt
stifled in the poisoned air about her, while the desire to acquit herself of the crime of which
she felt guilty, unable though she was to define the crime or determine her part in it, robbed
her of her sleep. She felt that a great jagged stone was suspended over her head, that it was
becoming less and less firmly attached every day, and that its fall if not imminent was certain.

Hour after hour passed by; Daniel finally appeared in the vestibule. He was not a little terrified
when he saw the burning lamp and Gertrude sitting up in bed.

He went into the bedroom, closed the door, walked up to the cradle, looked at the child, and
then went over to Gertrude. She cast a glance of infinite inquiry at him. It was a look that
seemed to implore him for a decision, a judgment. At the same time she put out her hands as
if to ward off any approach on his part. When she saw that he was astonished, she softened
the expression on her face, and said: “Give me your hand.”

She took his right hand, stroked it, and whispered: “Poor hand, poor hand.”

Daniel bit his lips: “Oh woman, what ...?” That was all.

He sat down in silence on the edge of her bed. Gertrude looked at him in the same tense, anxious
way in which she had studied him a few moments earlier. He sank down beside her, and fell asleep
with his head on her breast.

She kept on holding his hand. She looked into his pale, narrow face and at his angular brow,
the skin of which could be seen to twitch every now and then under the loose flowing hair that
hung over it. The oil in the lamp was getting low, the wick had begun to smell. She was afraid
however to put it out lest she might waken Daniel. She looked on in silence as the light became
dimmer and dimmer and finally went out, leaving only the red glow of the wick. This too died
away in time, and it became dark.

                                  XII

For some time Eleanore had noticed that the baker’s boy, instead of carefully putting the rolls
in the sack each morning as had always been his custom, threw them through the lattice on to
the ground.

The newspaper boy stopped speaking to her; the postman smiled scornfully; and even the beggar,
at least she thought so, asked for his alms in a tone of impudence.

One day she was passing through Schmausen Street; a woman was leaning out of the window. Seeing
Eleanore coming, she called back into the room, whereupon a young man and three half-grown
girls rushed to the window, began making remarks to each other, and gaped at her with looks
that made her turn deathly pale.

Another time Daniel brought her a free ticket to a concert. She went, and as soon as she reached
the hall she was struck by the discourteous and indecent manner in which the bystanders looked
at her. A well-dressed woman moved away from her. Some men kept walking around her, grinning
at her. She found it intolerable, and went home.

Exercise in the open had often driven away the cares that chanced to be weighing upon her:
she went skating. As soon as the people saw her, they began to whisper among themselves. She
did not bother about them or their remarks; she cut her beautiful figures on the ice as if
she were quite alone. A group of young girls pointed at her with their fingers. She went up
to them with pride glistening in her eyes, and they all ran away. Those who had formerly paid
homage to her avoided her now. Her soul rebelled within her; meeting with so much unexpected
and cowardly vulgarity enflamed her sensibilities and ennobled her self-respect.

One day in December she crossed the Wine Market, and started to pass through a narrow street
that led to the Halle Gate. Standing at the entrance to the alley were a number of men engaged
in conversation. She recognised Alfons Diruf among them. She thought they would step to one
side and let her pass, but not one of them moved. They gaped at her in unmitigated shamelessness.
She could have turned about and taken another street, but that defiance on the part of those
men made her insist upon her rights to go the way she had originally decided upon. Impressed,
apparently, by the flaming blue of her eyes, the scoundrels at last condescended to shift their
lazy frames to one side. They formed an espalier through which she had to walk. But worse than
this were the lewd looks that she knew were following her, and the laughter that greeted her
ears. It was the type of laughter ordinarily heard at night when one passes a low dive, in
which the scum of human society has gathered to amuse itself by the telling of salacious stories.

She often had the feeling, particularly after dark, that some one was following her. Once she
looked around, and a man was behind her. He wore a havelock; he turned quickly into a gate.
A few days later she had a similar experience, but this time she was frightened worse than
ever, for she thought it was Herr Carovius.

One evening as she was leaving the house she saw the same figure standing by the church on
the other side of the street. As she hesitated and wondered whether she should go on, another
person joined the first. She thought it was Philippina. The two began to talk, but Eleanore
could not make out who they were; it was snowing, and there was no street lamp nearby.

She could not tell why, but she was suddenly seized with anxiety for Daniel; for him and for
no one else. She felt that unless she went back something dreadful would happen to him. She
rushed up the steps to the attic room, and knocked at his door; there was not a sound. She
opened the door and went in, but everything was dark. In the darkness, however, standing out
against the white background from the light of the snow, she saw his body. He was sitting at
the piano; he had his arms on the lid, his head between his hands. Eleanore hastened up to
him, and, with a tone of sweet sadness in what she said, threw her arms around his neck.

Daniel took her on his lap, pressed her head to his bosom, and laughed with open month and
shining teeth but without making a sound. He often laughed that way now.

                                 XIII

He laughed that way at the intrigues that were being forged against him by his bitterest enemy,
Fräulein Varini, and which resulted in his meeting with distrust and opposition in everything
he undertook at the City Theatre.

He laughed that way at the anonymous letters, filled with insulting remarks, which were being
sent him by his fellow citizens, and which he read with naïve curiosity merely to see how far
human nastiness and bestial hate could go.

He laughed that way when he received the letter from Baroness von Auffenberg informing him
that she was forced to discontinue her lessons and recitals. She said that her constitution
had been weakened, and that she was going to close her town house and spend the winter at her
country place at Hersbruck. Daniel heard however that she spent a great deal of her time in
town, and that she had arranged for an elaborate cycle of musicales, a thing she had never
dared to do under his administration. Andreas Döderlein had been engaged as her musical adviser:
now she could rave and go into ecstasies and hypnotise her impotent soul in the mephitic air
of artificial aroma just as much as she pleased.

And he laughed that way at the weekly attacks upon him and his art that appeared in the Fränkischer
Herold, copies of which were delivered at his front door with the regularity of the sun. The
attacks consisted of sly, caustic sneers, secrets that had been ferreted out with dog-like
keenness, gigantic broadsides based on hearsay evidence, and perfidious suspicions lodged against
Daniel Nothafft, the artist, and Daniel Nothafft, the man.

The articles never failed to mention the Goose Man. Daniel asked to have the allusion explained.
The Goose Man was elevated to the rank and dignity of an original humourist. “What is the latest
concerning the Goose Man?” became a standing head-line. Or the reader’s eye would fall on the
following notice: “The Goose Man is again attracting the attention of all friends of music.
He has had the ingenious audacity to make the opera ‘Stradella’ more enjoyable by the interpolation
of a funeral march of his own make. The ever-submissive domestic birds which he carries under
his arms have rewarded him for his efforts in this connection by the cackling of their abundant
and affectionate gratitude.”

The birthplace of these inimitable achievements in the field of journalistic wit was the reserved
table at the Crocodile. If ever in the history of the world men have laughed real honest tears
it was at the writing of such news bearing on the life and conduct of the Goose Man. The editor-in-chief,
Weibezahl, was the recording secretary at these intellectual Olympiads, and Herr Carovius was
the protagonist. He had access to reliable sources, as newspaper men say, and every evening
he surprised the round table with new delicacies for Weibezahl’s columns.

Daniel was ignorant of what was going on. But the Goose Man, the expression as well as the
figure, became interwoven with his thoughts, and acquired, somehow and somewhere in the course
of time, a transfigured meaning.

                                  XIV

One day Frau Kirschner wrote to Daniel telling him that she did not wish to have anything more
to do with him; she demanded in the same letter that he pay back the money she had advanced
him. He could not raise it: the City Theatre had already made him a loan, he had no friends,
and M. Rivière, the only person on earth who might have been able to come to his rescue, had
gone back to France.

Matters took their usual course: A lawyer notified Daniel, giving him so many days grace; when
these had elapsed and no payment had been made, a summons was served on him; the sheriff came
in, and in default of any other object of value he pawned the piano.

Daniel’s objections were quite ineffectual: a few days more and the piano would be put up at
auction.

One gloomy morning in January Philippina entered his room.

“Say, Daniel,” she began, “would you like to have some money from me?”

Daniel turned his head slowly and looked at her in amazement.

“I have lots of it,” she continued with her hoarse voice, her glassy eyes glittering underneath
her bangs. “I have been saving it a pfennig at a time ever since I was a child. I can give
you the money you owe the Councillor’s wife. Sling it at her, the old hag! Say to me: ‘Please
Philippina, give me the money,’ and you’ll find it on the table.”

“Are you crazy?” asked Daniel, “get out of here just as quickly as your feet can carry you!”
He felt distinctly creepy in her presence.

Philippina, beside herself with rage, seized his hand. Before he could do a thing she bit him
just below the little finger. The wound was quite deep. He groaned, shook her off, and pushed
her back. She looked at him triumphantly, but her face had turned yellow.

“Listen, Daniel,” she said in a begging, beseeching tone, “don’t be so ugly! Don’t be so mean
toward me! Don’t be so jealous!”

The wench’s infamous smile, her hair hanging down over her eyes, her big red hands, the snow-flakes
on her short cloak, the border on her fiery red dress below her cloak, and the poison green
ribbon on her hat—this ensemble of ugliness filled Daniel with the loathing he might have experienced
had he stood face to face with the most detestable picture he had ever seen from the world
of human beings. But as he turned his head, a feeling of sympathy came over him; he suspected
that the girl was bound to him by bonds that did not reach him until after they had taken their
course through the dark channels of some subterranean labyrinth. What she had done filled him
with dismay; but as a revelation of character it surprised him and set him to thinking.

He went over to the washing table to put his bleeding hand in the water. Philippina took a
fresh handkerchief from the cabinet, and handed it to him as a bandage. He looked at her with
piercing eyes, and said: “What kind of a person are you? What sort of a devil is in you, anyway?
Be careful, Jason Philip’s daughter, be careful!”

Since there was a tone of kindness in these words, the muscles of Philippina’s face moved in
a mysterious way. Her features were distorted as if by a grin, and yet she was not grinning.
She drew a leather purse from her cloak pocket, opened it, and took out two one-hundred-mark
notes and a gold coin. They had been wrapped in paper. She unfolded the paper and the notes,
laid them, together with the coin, on the table, and handed Daniel a written statement.

He read it: “I, the undersigned, Daniel Nothafft, promise to pay to Philippina Schimmelweis
two hundred and twenty marks at five per cent interest, for value received.”

“With that you c’n pay the sheriff and git yourself out of this mess,” said Philippina, in
a most urgent tone. “You can’t give piano lessons on a rolling pin, and that music box of yours
is after all the tool you make your living by. Sign that, and you will be in peace.”

“Where did you get the money?” asked Daniel. “How did you ever come by so much money? Tell
me the truth.” All of a sudden he remembered Theresa’s words: “All that nice money, all that
nice money!”

Philippina began to chew her finger nails. “That’s none of your business,” she said gruffly,
“it ain’t been stolen. Moreover, I c’n tell you,” she said, as she felt that his distrust was
taking on a threatening aspect, “mother give it to me on the sly. She didn’t want me to be
without a penny if anything happened. For my father—he would like to see me strung up. She
give it to me, I say, on the side, and she made me swear before the cross that I would never
let any one know about it.”

This tale of horror made Daniel shake his head; he had his doubts. He felt she was lying, and
yet there was a mysterious force back of her statement and in her eyes. He was undecided; he
thought it over. His livelihood was at stake. Weeks, months might pass by before he could get
another piano. Philippina’s readiness to help him was a riddle to him, everything she said
was repulsive and banal; but after all she was willing to help in a most substantial way, and
he was in such difficulties that voices of admonition simply had to be drowned out.

“It is nothing but money,” he thought contemptuously, and sat down to put his name to the note.

Philippina drew up her shoulders, and never once breathed until he had signed the note and
handed it over to her in silence. Then she looked at him imploringly, and said: “Now Daniel,
you must never again treat me like you would a scurvy cat.”

                                  XV

There had been an unusual amount of talk this year about the parade on Shrove Tuesday. On the
afternoon of that day the whole city was on its feet.

Daniel was on his way home; he had reached the corner of Theresa Street when he ran into the
crowd. He stopped out of idle curiosity. The first division of the parade came up: it consisted
of three heralds in gaudy mediæval costumes, and back of them were three councillors on horseback.

Next in the procession was a condemned witch on a wheelbarrow. Her face had been hideously
painted, and in her hand she swung a huge whiskey bottle. She was followed by a group of Chinese,
each with a long pigtail, and they by a troupe of dancing Kameruns.

The procession moved on in the following order: a giant carrying twenty-seven quart beer mugs;
a woman’s orchestra consisting exclusively of old women; a wagon from one of the peasant districts
bearing the inscription, “Adorers of Taxes”; a smoking club with the Swedish match merchant;
a wagon with a replica of the Spittler Gate made of beer kegs; the so-called guard against
sparks; a nurse with a grown child in diapers and Hussar boots; the seven Swabians on velocipedes;
a cabriolet with a gaily dressed English family; a conveyance carrying authors. There were
two inscriptions on it: “The And So Forths” and “The Et Ceterists.”

At the end of the procession was a wagon with a skilful imitation of the Goose Man. It had
been made out of old boards, hoops, clay, old rags, and iron. The Goose Man himself wore an
open velvet doublet and short velvet trousers, from the pockets of which protruded rolls of
banknotes. Instead of a cap he had a rusty pan on his head, and on his feet was a pair of worn
patent leather shoes. Under each arm he carried a goose. The geese had been made of dough.
Their heads were not the heads of geese but of women artificially painted and with so-called
taws, or marbles, for their eyes. The face at the Goose Man’s left looked melancholy, the one
at his right was cheerful.

This was the centre of attraction; it was surrounded by the largest crowds. Every time it came
within sight of a fresh group of on-lookers there was a tremendous shouting and waving of flags.
This was true even where it was plain that the people did not appreciate the significance of
it. Pulchinellos brandished their wooden swords, Indian chieftains danced around it screaming
their mighty war-whoops, a Mephistopheles turned somersaults, knights mounted on stilts saluted,
and children with wax masks shrieked until it was impossible to hear one’s own voice.

Daniel had watched the performance with relative indifference. He had regarded it merely as
a display of commonplace ability to amuse the people. Then came the wagon with the imitation
of the Goose Man. On it stood Schwalbe the sculptor, gloriously drunk. Beside him stood Kropotkin
the painter in his shirt sleeves, apparently oblivious to the fact that it was cold. A fearfully
fat youth—a future school officer, so far as could be determined from his looks—had hit upon
the happy idea of pasting the title of the Fränkischer Herold to the Goose Man’s hat. This
took the initiated by storm.

Kropotkin recognised Daniel. He called to him, threw him kisses, had one of the wooden swords
given him, and went through the motion of directing an orchestra. The fat boy hurled a handful
of pretzels at the spot on the sidewalk where Daniel was standing; a trombone began to bray;
the Englishman first stuck his head out of his cabriolet, and then got out and hopped over
to Daniel, carrying a pole draped with women’s clothes, including a feather hat and a veil.
A new keg of beer was tapped on the Gambrinus wagon, while the people in the houses rushed
to the windows and roared.

“You have forgotten the railing,” cried Daniel in a loud voice to the people on the Goose Man
wagon.

“What did he say?” they asked, and looked at each other in astonishment. The on-lookers were
filled with curious silence: many of them gazed at Daniel, bewildered.

“You forgot the railing,” he repeated, with glistening eyes, “you have forgotten the iron railing.
Without his protection the poor Goose Man is to be sure your buffoon, your zany, your clown.”

He laughed quietly, and, with opened mouth and shining teeth, quickly withdrew from the innumerable
gapers. Having reached a deserted alley, he began to sing with a frenzied expression on his
face: “Whom thou dost not desert, oh Genius, him wilt thou raise up with wings of fire. He
will wander on as if with feet of flowers across Deucalion’s seas of slime, killing Python,
light-footed, famed Pythius Apollo.”

                                  XVI

A few weeks later a real singer came to Daniel. She sang several of the songs he had written.
He had thought they were completely forgotten by everybody. Her art was not merely perfect;
it was wonderful.

It was a very mysterious visit the singer paid him. One afternoon during a fearful snow storm
the bell rang; and when Gertrude opened the door, she saw a woman wearing a heavy black veil
standing before her, who said she wished to speak to Kapellmeister Nothafft. Gertrude took
her up to Daniel’s room. The stranger told Daniel she had been wishing to make his acquaintance
for a long time, and, now on her way to Italy, she had been detained in the city for a few
days by the illness of a near friend. This, she said, she regarded as a hint from fate itself.
She had come to extend him her greetings, and particularly to thank him for his songs, a copy
of which a friend had been good enough to present to her at a time when she was living under
the weight of a great sorrow.

She spoke with an accent that had a Northern note in it, but easily and fluently; she gave
the impression of a woman who had seen a great deal of the world and had profited by her travels.
Daniel asked her with whom he had the pleasure of speaking, but she smiled, and asked permission
to conceal her name for the present. She said that it really did not make much difference,
and that it might be more agreeable to him later to think that an unknown woman had come to
him to express her appreciation than to recall that Fräulein So-and-So had been there: she
hoped that her very anonymity would make a more lasting impression on his memory than could
be made by a woman of whom he knew only what everybody knows.

The mingling of the jocose and the serious, of the mind and the heart, in the words of the
stranger pleased Daniel. Though his replies were curt and cool, it was plain that she was affording
him much pleasure: she was reminding him of the fact that his creations had not after all sunk
into an echoless abyss. In course of time, the conversation turned again to the songs; she
said she would like very much to sing some of them for him. Daniel was pleased. He got the
score, sat down at the piano, and the enigmatic woman began to sing. At the very first note
Daniel was enraptured; he had never heard such a voice: so soft, so pure, so emotional, so
unlike the conventional product of the conservatory. As soon as she had finished the first
song, he looked up at her in unaffected embarrassment, and murmured: “Who are you, anyhow?
Who are you?”

“No investigations or cross-questioning, please,” replied the singer, and, blushing at the
praise Daniel was bestowing on her by his very behaviour, she laughed and said, “The next song,
please, that one by Eichendorff!”

Gertrude, who had not wished to remain longer than was necessary because of the unkempt impression
she knew she made, had hastened down to the kitchen. And now Eleanore came in, after having
knocked at the door with all imaginable timidity. She had heard the strange voice, had rushed
out into the hall, and, unable to restrain her curiosity any longer, had come in to see the singer.

Daniel nodded to her with radiant eyes, the stranger greeted her cordially though calmly, and
then began to sing the next song; after this she took up the third, and so on until she had
sung the complete cycle of six. Old Jordan was standing behind the door; he had his hands pressed
to his face and was listening; he was much moved.

“Well, I must be going,” said the strange woman, after she had finished the last song. She
shook hands with Daniel, and said: “It has been a beautiful hour.”

“It has been one of the most beautiful hours I have ever experienced,” said Daniel.

“Farewell!”

“Farewell!”

The strange woman went away, leaving behind her not a trace of anything other than the memory
of a joy that grew more fabulous as the storm-tossed years rolled by. Daniel never saw her
again, and never heard from her again.

                                 XVII

While the woman was singing, Gertrude had been standing down in the hall listening. She knew
every note of every song; every melody in the accompaniment seemed to her like an old, familiar
picture. She was also aware that an artist by the grace of God had been in the house.

But how strange it was that she should find nothing unusual in the incident. She felt that
a living stream in her bosom had dried up, leaving nothing but sand and stones in its bed.
This inability to feel, this being dead to all sensations, took the form of excruciating pangs
of conscience.

“My God, my God, what has happened to me?” she sighed, and wrung her hands.

That evening she went to the Church of Our Lady, and prayed for a long while. Her prayer did
not appease her, however; she came back home more disquieted than ever.

The door of the living room was open: Daniel and Eleanore were sitting by the lamp, reading
together from a book. The baby began to move; Eleanore had left the door open so that she might
be able to hear the child when it woke up. Gertrude took the child in her arms, quieted it,
and returned to the door leading into the living room. Daniel and Eleanore had turned their
backs to the door, and were so absorbed in their reading that they were not aware of Gertrude’s
presence.

A light suddenly came into Gertrude’s heart: she became conscious of her guilt—the guilt she
had been trying in vain to fathom now for so many cruel weeks.

She did not have enough of the power of love; therein lay her guilt. She had assumed an obligation
that was quite beyond her power to fulfil: she had entered into marriage without having the
requisite strength of heart.

Marriage had seemed to her like the Holy of Holies. Her union with the man she loved seemed
to her to be of equal significance with the union with God. But when she saw that this bond
had been broken, the world was plunged into an abyss immeasurably remote from God. And it was
not her husband who seemed to her to be guilty of infidelity; nor did she look upon her sister
as being the guilty one; it was she herself who had been unfaithful and guilty in their eyes.
She had not stood the test; she had been tried and found wanting; her strength had not been
equal to her presumptions; God had rejected her. This conviction became irrevocably rooted
in her heart.

In her union with Daniel music had become something divine; and she saw, now this union had
been broken, something in music that was perilous, something that was to be avoided: she understood
why she was so unemotional, why her feelings had dried up and vanished.

But she wanted to make one more effort to see whether she was entirely right in the analysis
of her soul. One morning she went to Daniel, and asked him to play a certain passage from the
“Harzreise.” She said she would like to hear the close of the slow middle movement which had
always made such an appeal to her. Her request was made in such an urgent, anxious tone that
Daniel granted it, though he did not feel like playing. As Gertrude listened, she became paler
and paler: her diagnosis was being corroborated with fearful exactness. What had once been
a source of ecstasy was now the cause of intense torture. The tones and harmonies seemed to
be eating into her very soul; the pain she felt was so overwhelming, that it was only with
the greatest exertion that she mustered up sufficient self-control to leave the room unaided.
Daniel was dismayed.

On her return to the kitchen, Gertrude heard a most peculiar noise in her bedroom. She went
in only to see that little Agnes had crept into the corner of the room where the harp stood,
and was striking the strings with a copper spoon, highly pleased with her actions. Gertrude
was seized with a vague, nameless terror. She took the harp into the kitchen, removed the strings
from the frame, rolled them up, put them in a drawer, and carried the stringless frame up to
the attic.

“What can I do?” she whispered to herself, and looked around in the attic with an expression
of complete helplessness. She longed for peace, and it seemed peaceful up where she was. She
stayed a while, leaning up against one of the beams, her eyes closed.

“What can I do?” That was the question she put to herself day and night. “I can no longer be
of any help to my husband; to stand in his way merely because of the child is not right.” Such
was the trend of her argument. She saw how he was suffering, how Eleanore was suffering, how
each was suffering on account of the other, and how both were suffering because of the despicable
vulgarity of the human race. She thought to herself that if she were not living, everything
would be right. She imagined, indeed she was certain, that all the truth he had given her had
had the sole purpose of whitewashing a lie, by which she was to be made to believe that her
existence was a necessity to him. She was convinced that the weight of this lie was crushing
the very life out of him. She wished to free him from it and its consequences. But how she
was to do this she did not know. She knew that if Daniel and Eleanore could belong to each
other in a legal, legitimate way, they would be vindicated in the eyes of God and man. But
how this was to be brought about she did not know.

She sought and sought for a way out. Her ideas were vague but persistent. She felt that she
was running around in a circle, unable to do more than stare at the centre of the circle. Every
morning at five o’clock she would get up and go to church. She prayed with a devotion and passion
that physically exhausted her heart.

One morning she knelt before the altar in unusually heart-rending despair. She thought she
heard a small voice crying out to her and telling her to take her life.

She swooned; people rushed up to her, and wet her forehead with cold water. This enabled her
to get up and go home. A peculiarly sorrowful and dreamy expression lay on her face.

She wanted to do some knitting, for she recalled that when she was a girl she was always able
to dispel care and grief by knitting. But every stitch she made turned into the cry: “You must
take your life.”

She knelt down by the cradle of little Agnes, but the child said to her only too distinctly:
“Mother, you must take your life.”

Eleanore came in. On her brow was the light of enjoyed happiness; her whole body was happiness;
her lips trembled and twitched with happiness. But her eyes said. “Sister, you must take your
life.”

Philippina stood by the kitchen stove, and whispered to the coals: “Gertrude, you must take
your life.” Her father came in, got his dinner, expressed his thanks for it, and went out murmuring,
“Daughter, you must take your life; believe me, it will be for the best.”

If she passed by the well, something drew her to the edge; voices called to her from the depths.
From every beaker she put to her lips to drink shone forth her image as if from beyond the
tomb. On Sunday she climbed up the Vestner Tower, and let her eyes roam over the plains below
as if in the grief of departure. She leaned forward out of the little window with a feeling
of assuaging horror. The keeper, seeing what she was doing, rushed up, seized her arms, and
made her get back.

If the cock crew, it was the crow of death; if the clock ticked, it was the tick of death;
if the wind blew, it was a breath from beyond the grave. “You must take your life”—with this
thought the air, the earth, the house, the church, the morning, the evening, and her dreams
were full.

In April Eleanore was taken down with fever. Gertrude watched by her bedside night and day;
she sacrificed herself. Daniel, worried about Eleanore, went around in a dazed condition. When
he came to her bed he never noticed Gertrude. After Eleanore had begun to recover, Gertrude
lay down; for she was very tired. But she could not sleep; she got up again.

She went into the kitchen in her bare feet, though she did not know why she went. It was the
consuming restlessness of her heart that drove her from her bed. Her legs were heavy with exhaustion,
but she did not like to stay in any one place for any length of time. Later Daniel came back
from the city, and brought her a silver buckle which he fastened to her bracelet. Then he pressed
his lips to her forehead, and said: “I thank you for having been so good to Eleanore.”

Gertrude stood as if rooted to the floor. Something seemed to cry incessantly within her; she
felt that a mortally wounded beast was in her bosom wallowing in its blood. Long after Daniel
had gone to his room she could still be seen standing in the middle of the floor. Wrapped in
gloomy meditation, she removed the buckle from her bracelet: she thought she saw an ugly mark
where the metal had touched her skin. She went into her room, opened the cabinet, and hid the
buckle under a pile of linen.

She had only one wish: she wanted to sleep. But as soon as she would close her eyes her heart
would begin to beat with doubled, trebled rapidity. She had to get up and walk back and forth
in the room; she was struggling for breath.

                                 XVIII

A few days later she went out during a pouring rain storm, and wandered about aimlessly through
the streets. Every minute she feared—and hoped—she would fall over and become unconscious of
herself and the world about her. She passed by two churches, the doors of which were locked.
It was growing dark; she reached the apothecary shop of Herr Pflaum, and looked in through
the glass door. Herr Seelenfromm was standing at the counter, mixing some medicine in a mortar.
She went in and asked him whether he could not give her a narcotic. He said he could, and asked
her what it should be. “One which makes you sleep for a long, long while,” she said, and smiled
at him so as to make him inclined to fulfil her request. It was the first smile that had adorned
her grief-stricken face for many a day. Herr Seelenfromm was just about to suggest a remedy
to her. He sat down in a vain position so that he might avail himself of the opportunity to
flirt with her a little. The apothecary, however, came up just then, and when he heard what
Gertrude wanted, he cast a penetrating glance at her and said: “You had better go to the doctor,
my good woman, and have him make you out a prescription. I have had some rather disagreeable
experiences with cases of this kind.”

When Gertrude had finally dragged herself home, she found Philippina sitting by the cradle
of little Agnes, rocking the child back and forth and humming a lullaby. “Where is Eleanore?”
asked Gertrude.

“Where do you think she is?” said Philippina contemptuously: “She is upstairs with your husband.”

Gertrude heard Daniel playing the piano. She raised her head to hear what he was playing.

“She told me I was to go with her to Glaishammer to get a washwoman for you,” continued Philippina.

“Ah, what do we want with a washwoman?” said Gertrude; “we cannot afford one. It costs a great
deal of money, and every cent of money spent means a drop of blood from Daniel’s veins. Don’t
go to Glaishammer! I would rather do the washing myself!”

She knew, however, at that very moment that she had done her last washing. There was something
so mournful about the light of the lamp. Agnes’s little face looked so pale as it peeped out
from under the covers, Philippina cowered so witlessly at the floor. But all this was only
for the moment; all this she could take with her up into a better world.

She bent down over the child, and kissed it, and kissed it with hot, burning lips. A lurk of
unsoftened evil crept into Philippina’s face. “Listen, Gertrude, listen: you are all Greek
to me,” said Philippina, “I don’t understand you.”

Gertrude went over to Eleanore’s room, where she stood for a while in the dark, trembling and
thinking. At times she was startled: she heard some one walking about, and she thought the
door would open. She could scarcely endure her impatience. Suddenly she remembered the attic
and how quiet it was up there; there no one could disturb her. She decided to go up. On her
way she went into the kitchen, and took a thick cord from a sugar-loaf.

As she passed by Daniel’s room, she noticed that the door was half open. He was still playing.
Two candles were standing on the piano; Eleanore was leaning up against the side of the piano.
She had on a pale blue dress that fell down over her beautiful body in peaceful folds.

Gertrude looked at the picture with wide-open eyes. There was an inimitable urging, a reaching
aloft, and a painful sinking-back in the piece he was playing and in the way he was playing
it. Gertrude went on up without making the slightest bit of noise. It was dark, but she found
her way by feeling along with her hands.

                                  XIX

After a half-hour had gone by, Philippina began to wonder where Gertrude was. She looked in
the living room, then in Eleanore’s room, and then hastened up the steps and peeped through
the open door into Daniel’s room. Daniel had stopped playing and was talking with Eleanore.
Philippina turned back. On the stairs she met Jordan just then coming in from his evening walk.
She lighted a candle, and looked in the kitchen. Gertrude was nowhere to be found.

“It is raining; there is her raincoat, and here is her umbrella, so she can’t have gone out,”
thought Philippina to herself. She sat down on the kitchen table, and stared before her.

She was filled with an ugly, bitter suspicion; she scented a tragedy. In the course of another
half-hour, she got up, took the lighted candle, and started out on a second search. Something
drove her all about the house: she went out into the hall, into the various rooms, and then
back to the kitchen.

All of a sudden she thought of the attic. It was the expression on Gertrude’s face the last
time she kissed Agnes that made her think of it. Was not the attic of any house, and particularly
the one in this house, the room that had the greatest attraction for her, and that her light-fearing
fancy invariably chose as the most desirable and befitting place for her hidden actions?

She went up quickly and without making the least noise. Holding the lighted candle out before
her, she stared at a rafter from which hung a human figure dressed in woman’s clothes. She
wheeled about, uttering a stifled gurgle. A sort of drunkenness came over her; she was seized
with a terrible desire to dance. She raised one leg, and sank her teeth deep into the nails
of her right hand. In her convulsions she had the feeling that some one was crying out to her
in a strong voice: “Set it on fire! Set it on fire!”

Near the chimney wall was a pile of letters and old newspapers. She fell on her knees, and
exclaimed: “Blaze! Blaze!” And then, half with horror and half with rejoicing, she uttered
a series of irrational, incoherent sounds that were nothing more than “Hu-hu, oi-oi, hu-hu, oi-oi!”

The fire from the papers flared up at once, and she ran down the steps with a roar and a bellow
that are fearful to imagine, nerve-racking to hear.

In a few minutes the house was a bedlam. Daniel ran up the steps, Eleanore close behind him.
The women in the lower apartments came running up, screaming for water. Daniel and Eleanore
turned back, and dragged a big pail full of water up the stairs. The fire alarm was turned
in, the men made their way into the building, and with the help of many hands the flames were
in time extinguished.

Jordan was the first to see the lifeless Gertrude. Standing in smoke and ashes, he sobbed and
moaned, and finally fell to the floor as if struck on the head with an axe. The men carried
Gertrude’s body out; her clothes were still smoking.

Philippina had vanished.

                               ELEANORE

                                   I

It was all over.

The visit of the doctor was over; and so was that of the coroner. The investigations of the
various boards, including that of the fire department, the cross-examination, the taking of
evidence, the coming to a decision—all this was over.

The cause of the fire remained unexplained; a guilty party could not be found. Philippina Schimmelweis
had sworn that the fire had already started when she reached the attic. It was therefore assumed
that the suicide had knocked over a lighted candle in her last moments.

The crowd of acquaintances and close friends had disappeared; this was over too. Hardened souls
expressed their conventional sympathy to Kapellmeister Nothafft. That a man who had carried
his head so high had suddenly been obliged to lower it in humility awakened a feeling of satisfaction.
The punished evil-doer again gained public favour. Women from the better circles of society
expatiated at length on the question whether a relation which in all justice would have to
be designated as a criminal one while the poor woman was living could be transformed into a
legal one after the lapse of a certain amount of time. With pimplike generosity and match-making
indulgence they decided that it could.

The funeral was also over. Gertrude was buried in St. John’s Cemetery on a stormy day.

The preacher had preached a sermon, the mourners had stood with their hands stuffed in their
coat pockets and their furs, for it was cold. As the coffin was lowered into the grave, Jordan
cried out: “Farewell, Gertrude! Until we meet again, my child!”

There was one man who crowded right up to the edge of the grave: it was Herr Carovius. He looked
over his nose glasses at Jordan and Daniel and Eleanore. It seemed to him that the latter,
with her pale face and her black dress, was more beautiful than the most beautiful Madonna
any Italian or Spaniard had ever immortalised on imperishable canvas.

He turned his frightened face to one side, and came very nearly falling over the heaped-up
earth by the grave.

With regard to Daniel’s conduct, Pflaum, the apothecary, had this to say: “I should have expected
more grief and sorrow from him, and not so much sullenness.”

“A hard-hearted man, an exceedingly hard-hearted man,” said Herr Seelenfromm in his grief.

Daniel was severely criticised for his discourteous treatment of the people from the City Theatre,
every one of whom had come to the funeral. When several of them shook hands with him, he merely
nodded, and blinked his eyes behind the round glasses which he had been wearing for some time.

Judge Kleinlein said: “He should be very grateful for the Christian burial, for despite the
evidence that was turned in, it was not satisfactorily proved that the woman was in her right
mind.”

Eleanore looked into the open grave. She thought: “Guilt is being heaped upon guilt, deep,
serious guilt.”

All this was over now. Daniel and Eleanore and Jordan had come back to the house.

                                  II

They felt lonely and deserted. Jordan shut himself up in his room. It was rare now that he
took his accustomed evening walks; his coat-sleeves and the ends of his trouser legs had become
more and more frayed. He pined away; his hair became snow white, his walk unsteady, his eye
dim. But he was never ill, and he never complained of his fate. He never said anything at the
table; he was a quiet man.

Eleanore moved back up with her father, and Daniel took his old room next to the dining room.
There was all of a sudden so much space; he was surprised that the going of a single person
could make such a vast difference.

Eleanore spent the whole day with little Agnes until Philippina came and relieved her. She
also did her work close to Agnes.

When she had finished her writing, she had to look after the house. She could not cook, and
had no desire to learn how, so she had a woman come in three times a week who prepared the
midday meals. Twice a week she would prepare meals for two days, and once a week she would
get them ready for three days. She was a modest woman who worked for very little money. The
food she cooked merely needed to be heated over, and in the evening they always had sausage
and sandwiches anyhow.

It was a practical arrangement, but no one praised Eleanore for it.

At first she spent her nights in Gertrude’s room with the child; she could not stand this,
however, longer than three weeks. Either she could not sleep, or she had such terrible dreams.

Then she took to carrying the child up to her room with her and making a little bed for it
on the sofa. But the child did not sleep so well there; Eleanore noticed that, as a result
of all the excitement and hard work, she was losing strength.

Often in the night when she would take the child to quiet it—and become so tired and uneasy—she
would make up her mind to have a talk with Daniel. But the next morning she would find it impossible
to bring up the subject. She felt that the voice of Gertrude was admonishing her from beyond
the grave and telling her to be patient.

She felt, too, that the time was drawing near when she would succumb to over-exertion; it made
her anxious. Just then Philippina came in to help.

                                  III

When Jason Philip heard that Philippina was going to Jordan’s daughters every day, he told
her most emphatically and repeatedly that she had to quit it. Philippina paid not the slightest
attention to him and did as she pleased.

“I’ll kill you,” cried Jason Philip at the girl.

Philippina shrugged her shoulders and laughed impudently.

Jason Philip saw that a grown person was standing before him; he was afraid of the evil look
of his daughter.

It was long before he could make out what was taking her to his enemies. Then he learned that
wherever she chanced to be, at home, or with acquaintances, or with strangers, she was spreading
evil reports concerning Daniel and his family. This tended to make him a bit more indulgent:
he too wanted to feast his ears on scandal from that quarter. At times he would enter into
a conversation with Philippina, and when she told him the latest news he was filled with fiendish
delight. “The day will come when I will get back at that music-maker, you see if I don’t,” he said.

Theresa was still confined to her bed. During his leisure hours Willibald had to read to her,
either from the newspapers or from trashy novels. When she was alone she lay perfectly quiet
and stared at the ceiling.

The time finally came when Willibald left school. He went to Fürth, where he was employed as
an apprentice by a manufacturer. There was no doubt in any one’s mind but that he would become
one of those loyal, temperate, industrious people who are the pride of their parents, and who
climb the social ladder at the rate of an annual increase in salary of thirty marks.

The one-eyed Markus entered the paternal bookshop, where he soon familiarised himself with
the novels of the world from Dumas and Luise Mühlbach to Ohnet and Zola, and with the popular
sciences from Darwin to Mantegazza. His brain was a book catalogue, and his mouth an oracle
of the tastes displayed at the last fair. But in reality he not only did not like the books,
he regarded all this printed matter as a jolly fine deception practised on people who did not
know what to do with their money. Zwanziger, the clerk, had married the widow of a cheese merchant,
and was running a shop of his own on the Regensburg Chaussee.

“A rotten business,” said Jason Philip at the end of each month. “The trouble with me,” he
invariably added, “is that I have been too much of an idealist. If I had worked as hard for
myself as I have for other people, I would be a rich man to-day.”

He went to the café and discussed politics. He had developed into a perpetual grumbler; he
was pleased with nothing, neither the government nor the opposition. To hear him talk you would
have thought that the opposing parties had been forced to narrow their platforms down to the
differences between the views of Prince Bismarck and Jason Philip Schimmelweis. When Kaiser
Wilhelm I died, Jason Philip acted as though his appointment to the chancellorship was imminent.
And when in that same memorable year Kaiser Friedrich succumbed to his sufferings, Jason Philip
resembled the pilot on whose isolated fearlessness the rescue of the storm-tossed ship of state
depends.

The born hero always finds a sphere of activity, a forum from which to express his views. If
public life has rejected him, he goes to the café, where he is sure to find a congenial element.

One day Theresa got up from the bed where she had spent fifteen unbroken months, and seemed
all of a sudden completely recovered. The physician said it was the strangest case that had
ever come under his observation. But Jason Philip said: “It is the triumph of a good constitution.”
With that he went to the café, drank beer, made fiery political speeches, and played skat.

But Theresa left her bed not as a woman forty-six years old—that was her age—but as a woman
of seventy. She had only a few sparsely distributed grey hairs left on her square head, her
face was full of wrinkles, her eye was hard and cold. From that time on, however, she did not
seem to age. She did not quarrel any more, attended to her affairs in a straightforward, self-assured
way, and observed her increasing impoverishment with unexpected calm.

She lived on herring, potatoes, and coffee; it was the same diet on which Philippina and Markus
lived, with the one exception that Markus, as the child nearest her heart, was allowed a piece
of sugar for his coffee. Jason Philip was also put on a diet: he never dared open his mouth
about it, either.

Philippina stood it for a while in silence; finally she said to her mother: “I can’t stand
this chicory brew forever.”

“Then you’ll have to lap up water, you will,” replied Theresa.

“No, I won’t,” said Philippina. “I am going to hire out.”

“Well, hire out. Who cares? It’ll be one mouth less to feed.” “Your daughter is going to hire
out,” said Theresa to her husband, when he came home that evening.

Jason Philip had been playing cards that day, and had lost. He was in a terrible humour: “She
can go plumb to the Devil so far as I am concerned.” That was his comment.

The next morning Philippina sneaked up to the attic, and drew out her cash from the hole in
the chimney: it amounted to nine hundred and forty marks, mostly in gold, which she had exchanged
in the course of years for small coins. Through the opening in the wall the June sun fell upon
her face, which, never young and bearing the stamp of extended crime, looked like that of a witch.

She put the money in a woollen stocking, rolled it up in a knot, stuffed it down her corset
between her breasts, made the sign of the cross, and repeated one of her drivelling formulas.
Her clothes, ribbons, and other possessions she had already packed in a basket. This she carried
down the stairs, and, without saying good-bye to a soul, left the house.

Her brother Markus was standing with sprawled legs in the sun before the store, whistling.
He caught sight of her with his one eye, smiled contemptuously at her, and cried: “Happy journey!”

Philippina turned to him, and said: “You branded lout! You’re going to have a lousy time of
it, mark what I tell you!”

In this frame of mind and body she came to Daniel, and said to him: “I want to work for you.
You don’t need to pay nothing if you ain’t got it.”

Daniel had been noticing for some time that Eleanore could not stand the exertion required
of her by the extra work.

“Will you mind the baby and sleep with it?” Daniel asked. Philippina nodded and looked down.

“If you will take care of the child and act right toward it and me, I shall be awfully grateful
to you,” he said, breathing more easily.

Thereupon Philippina threw her hands to her face, and shuddered from head to foot. She was
not exactly crying; there was something much worse, much more despairing, in what she was doing
than in mere crying. She seemed to be convulsed by some demoniac power; a ghastly dream seemed
to have seized her in a moment of higher consciousness. She turned around and trotted into
the room where the child was playing with a wooden horse.

She sat down on a foot-stool, and stared at the restless little creature.

Daniel stopped, stood perfectly still, and looked at her in a mood of solicitous reflection.

                                  IV

During a rehearsal of “Traviata,” Daniel flew into a rage at Fräulein Varini: “Listen, pay
attention to your intonation, and keep in time. It’s enough to make a man lose his mind! What
are you squeaking up at the gallery for? You’re supposed to be singing a song, and not whining
for a little bit of cheap applause.”

The lady stepped out to the foot-lights with heaving bosom. Her offended dignity created something
like the spread tail of a peacock about her hips: “How dare you?” she exclaimed: “I give you
your choice: You can apologise or leave this place. Whatever you do, you are going to become
acquainted with the power I have.”

Daniel folded his arms, let his eyes roam over the members of the orchestra, and said: “Good-bye,
gentlemen. Since it is the director’s place to choose between me and this lady, there is no
doubt whatever but that my term of usefulness in this position is up. And moreover, in an institution
where meat is more valuable than music, I feel that I am quite superfluous.”

The other singers had come running out from the wings, and were standing crowded together on
the stage looking down at the orchestra. When Daniel laid down his baton and walked away, every
member of the orchestra rose as one man to his feet. It was a voluntary and almost overwhelming
expression of speechless admiration. Though they had never loved this man, though they had
regarded him as an evil, alien kill-joy, who interfered with their easy-going habits as musicians
in that town, they nevertheless respected his energy, admired the nobility of his intentions,
and at least had a vague idea of his genius.

Fräulein Varini went into hysterics. The director was called in. He promised Fräulein Varini
immediate redress, and wrote a letter to Daniel requesting that he offer an apology.

Daniel replied in a brief note that he had no thought of changing his plans as announced when
he left the building. He remarked that it was quite impossible for him to get along with Fräulein
Varini, that either he or she would have to quit, and that since she intended to remain he
must consider his resignation as submitted and accepted.

That evening, as he was sitting at the table with Eleanore, he told her, after a long silence
and in very few words, what had happened. Her response to him was a look of astonishment; that
was all.

“Oh, it was the only thing I could do,” said Daniel, without looking up from his plate; “I
was so heartily sick of the whole business.”

“What are you going to live on, you and your child?” asked Eleanore.

His eye became even darker and harsher: “You know, God who makes the lilies grow in the fields
... I can’t quote that old proverb exactly, my familiarity with the Bible is nothing to boast of.”

That was all they said. The window was open; there was a mysterious pulsing in the earth; the
warm air had a disagreeable taste, somewhat like that of sweet oil.

When the clock in the tower struck ten, Eleanore got up and said good-night.

“Good-night!” replied Daniel, with bowed head.

                                   V

That is the way it was now every evening between the two; for during the day they scarcely
saw each other.

Daniel would sit perfectly still for hours at a time and brood.

He could not forget. He could not forget the burning, smoking border of the dress; nor the
shoes that had some street mud on them; nor the face with the pinched upper lip, the dishevelled
hair, the nervously knitted brow.

Under the linen in the clothes press he had found the silver buckle he had given her. “Why
did she hide it there?” he asked himself. The condition of her soul when she opened the press
and put the buckle in it became vivid, real; it became blended with his own soul, a part of
his own being.

Then he discovered the harp without the strings. He took it to his room; and when he looked
at it, he had the feeling that he was looking at a face without flesh.

“Am I too melancholy, too heavy for you?” This was the question that came to him from the irrevocable
past. And that other statement: “I will be your mother made young again.” And that other one,
too: “I, too, am a living creature.”

He recalled some old letters she had written him and which he had carefully preserved. He read
them over with the care and caution he would have exercised in studying an agreement, the disregard
or fulfilment of which was a matter of life and death. And there were bits of old embroidery
from her girlhood which he acquired in order to lock them up and keep them as if they were
sacred relics.

She stood out in his mind and his soul more vividly with each passing hour. If he remembered
how she sat and listened when he played or discussed his works, he felt something clutching
at his throat. He recalled how she crept up to him once and pressed her forehead against his
lips: this picture was enshrouded in the awe of an unfathomable mystery.

It was not a sense of guilt that bound him to his deceased wife. Nor was it contrition or self-reproach
or the longing that finds expression in the realisation of accumulated neglect. His fancy warded
off all thought of death; in its creative defiance it invested the dead woman with a reality
she never possessed while making her pilgrimage in bodily form over this earth.

It was not until now that she really took on form and shape for Daniel. And this is the marvellous
and the criminal feature of the musician. Things and people are not his while they are his.
He lives with shadows; it is only what he has lost that is his in living form. Dissociated
from the moment, he reaches out for the moment that is gone; he longs for yesterday and storms
to-morrow with unassimilative impatience. What he has in his hands is withered; what lies behind
him is in flower. His thinking is a winter between two springs: the true one that is gone,
and the one that is to come of which he dreams, but when it arrives he fails to take it to
himself. He does not see; he has seen. He does not love; he has loved. He is not happy; he
was happy. Dead, lifeless eyes open in the grave; and the living eyes that look into the grave,
see all things, understand all things, and glorify all things, feel as if they are being deceived
by death and its duration throughout eternity.

Gertrude was transformed into a melody; everything she had done or said was a melody. Her silence
was awakened, her mute hours were made eloquent. Once he had seen her and Eleanore, the one
in a brown dress, the other in a blue, minor and major, the two poles of his universe. Now
the major arose like the night, spread out over the lonely earth, and enveloped all things
in mourning. Grief fed on pictures that had once been daily, commonplace occurrences, but which
were illumined at present by the brightness of visions.

He saw her as she lay in bed with the two braids of hair on either side of her face, her face
itself looking like a wax figure in an old black frame. He could see her as she carried a dish
into the room, threaded a needle, put a glass to her lips to drink, or laced up her shoe. He
could see the expression in her eye when she cautioned, besought, was amazed, or smiled. How
incomparably star-like this eye had all of a sudden become! It was always lifted up, always
bright with inner meaning, always fixed on him. In the vision of this eye he found one evening
along toward sunset the motif of a sonata in B minor. A gesture he remembered—it was the time
Eleanore stood before the mirror with the myrtle wreath on her head—gave the impulse to the
stirring presto in the first movement of a quartette. The twenty-second Psalm, beginning “My
God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?” he sketched on awakening from a dream in which Gertrude
had appeared before him in perfect repose, as pale as death, her chin resting on her hand.

But it could not be said that he worked. The music he wrote under these conditions simply gushed
forth, so to speak, during fits of fever. When the mood came over him, he would scribble the
notes on whatever lay nearest him; his haste seemed to betray a sense of guilt. He stole from
himself; tones appealed to him as so many crimes. When the gripping melody of the twenty-second
Psalm arose in his mind, he trembled from head to foot, and left the house as if lashed by
Furies, though it was in the dead of night. The recurring bass figure of the presto sounded
to him as though it were a gruesome, awed voice stammering out the fatal words: “Man, hold
your breath, Man, hold your breath!” And he did hold his breath, full of unresting discomfort,
while his inspiration hacked its way through the ice-locked region into which a passionate
spell that was becoming more and more a part of his nature had driven it.

He saw humanity forsaking him; he watched the waves of isolation widening and deepening around
him. Since he felt that time did not challenge him to effort of any kind, he took to despising
time. It came to the point where he regarded his creations as something that never were intended
for the world; he never spoke about them or cherished the remotest desire that men hear of
them. The more completely he kept them in secret hiding, the more real they appeared to him.
The thought that a man could write a piece of music and sell it for money appealed to him as
on a par with the thought of disposing for so much cash of his mother or his sweetheart, of
his child or one of his own limbs.

He came on this account to cherish a feeling of superb disgust for shrewd dealers who were
carried along on the wings of fashion. He took a dislike to anything that was famous; for fame
smelled of and tasted to him like money. He shuddered at the mere thought of the chaos that
arises from opinions and judgments; the disputes as to the merits of different schools and
tendencies made him ill; he could not stand the perambulating virtuosos of all zones and nations,
the feathers they manage to make fly, the noise they evoke, the truths they proclaim, the lies
they wade about in and make a splash. He stood aghast at the mention of a concert hall or a
theatre; he flew into a reasoned rage when he heard a neighbour playing a piano; he despised
the false devotion of the masses, and scorned their impotent, imbecile transports.

All their music smelled of and tasted to him like money.

He had bought the biographies of the great masters. From them he familiarised himself with
their distress and poverty; he read of the petty attitudes and fatuous mediocrity that stood
deaf and dumb in the presence of immortal genius. But one day he chanced to read that Mozart’s
body had been buried in a pauper’s grave. He hurled the book from him with an oath that he
would never again touch a work of that sort. The mordant smoke of misanthropy blew into the
fire of idolisation; he did not wish to see any one; he left the city, and found peace only
after he had reached a lonely, unfrequented place in the forest, where he felt he was out of
the reach of human feet and safe from the eyes of men.

At night he would walk rapidly through the streets; his head was always bowed. If he became
tired, he betook himself to some unknown café where he was sure he would not meet any of his
acquaintances. If some one whom he knew met him on the street, he did not speak; if any one
spoke to him, he was blatant and bizarre in his replies, and hastened off as rapidly as he
could, with some caustic bit of intended wit on his loosened tongue.

To enter the room where Philippina and the child were required much effort; at first he was
able to do it only with pronounced aversion. Later he came somehow to be touched by the form
and actions of the child: he would come in a few times each day for a minute or two only, take
it up in his arms, have it poke its tiny hands into his face or even jerk at his nose glasses;
he listened with undivided interest to its baby talk. Philippina would stand in the corner
in the meanwhile, with her eyes on the floor and her mouth closed. He became painfully aware
of his obligations to her because of her inexplicable fidelity to him, and knew that he would
never be able to reward her for her unique and faithful assistance. He was grieved at the same
time to see the child so motherless, so utterly without the attention that ennobles. The child’s
bright eyes, its outstretched arms hurt him: he feared the feelings slumbering even then in
its breast, and was driven away by the thought of what might happen in the future.

One morning in August he arose with the sun, went to the kitchen and got his own breakfast,
took his walking stick, and left the house. He wanted to go to Eschenbach on foot.

He walked the entire day, making only very short stops for rest. At noon the heat became intense;
he asked a peasant, who chanced to drive up in his hay wagon, if he might ride a little. He
had no definite end in view, no plan. Something drew him on; what it was he did not know.

When he finally reached the little town it was late at night; the moon was shining. There was
not a soul on the street. The windows of his mother’s house were all dark. He climbed up the
steps, and sat down as close to the front door as was physically possible. He imagined he could
hear his mother and the child she had in her care breathing.

It seemed so strange to him that his mother knew nothing of his presence. If she had known
he was there, she would have unlocked the door and looked at him in astonishment. And if he
had not felt like talking, he would have been obliged to lay his head in her lap and weep.
Nothing else was possible; he could not speak. And yet the fear lest he talk, lest he be forced
to tell everything, took such firm hold on him that he decided to start back home without letting
his mother know that he had been there and without having seen either her or the child. The
peculiar restlessness that had driven him away from his home and impelled him to go on this
unusual journey was silenced as soon as he sat in the shadow of his mother’s little house.

But he was so tired that he soon fell asleep. He dreamed that the child and the old lady were
standing before him, that the former had a great bunch of grapes in her hand and the latter
a shovel and was shovelling up the earth, her face revealing a soul of sorrows. Eva seemed
to him to be much more beautiful than she had been a year ago; he felt drawn to the child by
an uncontrollable power and a painful love that stood in a most unusual relation to what his
mother was doing. The longer his mother shovelled in the earth the heavier his heart became,
but he could not say anything; he felt as if a glorious song were pouring forth from his soul,
a song such as he had never heard in his life. Enraptured by its beauty, he woke up. At first
he thought he could still hear it, but it was only the splashing of the water in the Wolfram
fountain.

The moon was high in the heavens. Daniel went over to the fountain just as the night watchman
came along, blew his trumpet and sang: “Listen, all men, I wish to tell that it has struck
two from the town-hall bell.” The watchman noticed the lonely man standing by the fountain,
was startled at first, but then continued on his rounds, repeating from time to time the words
of his official song.

Often as a child Daniel had read the inscription on the base of the Wolfram figure. Now he
read the words, irradiated by the light of the moon, and they had a totally different meaning:

    Water gives to the trees their life,
    And makes with fertile vigour rife
    All creatures of the world.
    By water all our eyes are purled;
    It washes clean man’s very soul
    And makes it like an angel, whole.

Simple words, but Daniel read them in the light of a full experience, dipped his hands in the
basin, and rubbed them over his eyes drunk with sleep; then casting one more glance at his
mother’s house, he turned in the direction of the road leading away from the town.

Out in the fields it was too damp for him to lie down to rest. Near an isolated farm house
he found a hay rick, went up to it, and lay down.

                                  VI

Every time Eleanore looked at Daniel her heart was filled with the same anxiety. She did not
understand him; she could not comprehend a single one of his movements. Such joy as she had
arose from meditation on the past.

He did not seem to be able to recall her. One word, any word, from him would have relieved
her of her anguish; but he spoke to her precisely as he spoke to Philippina or to Frau Kütt,
the woman who came in to do the housework.

It was bad enough to live with Philippina, to feel the incessant hatred of this secretive person;
to suspect that she knew things that would not stand the light of day. But to see the child
handed over to her, treated by her as though it were her own and guarded by her with a jealousy
that made her face wrinkle with rage if Eleanore presumed to stay with it for as much as five
minutes, this was infinitely worse.

It was bad enough to have to accept with filial obedience the society of the speechless old
father who spent his days and nights in his own mysterious way, striving without peace of any
kind to reach an unknown goal. This made it hard for Eleanore. It was spooky in the rooms upstairs,
and equally spooky in the ones downstairs. Eleanore dreaded the coming winter. At times she
felt that her own voice had an unreal sound, and that her most commonplace remark echoed with
the gloom of unhappy premonitions.

She sought refuge in the old pictures of her longings—southern landscapes with groves and statues
and a sea of supernatural blue. But she was too mature to find enduring satisfaction in empty
dreams; she preferred, and felt it were better, to forget her grief in the distractions of
hard work. It was not until the pen fell from her hand, weighed down with distress at the thought
of so many unadorned and unrelieved hours, that something drew her back into the realm of spirits
and visions. And then it was that she sought support, that she endeavoured to get a footing,
in the world of actual objects round about her.

She would take a pear, and think herself, so to speak, into the very heart of this bit of fruit,
just as if it were possible to find protection, shelter in so small a space. Or she would take
a piece of coloured glass, hold it in her hand, and look at the world of reality about her,
hoping that the commonplace would in this way be made to seem more beautiful. Or she looked
into the burning fire, and studied, with a smile on her face, the romantic tongues of flames.
Or she had a longing to look at old pictures: she went to the Germanic Museum, and spent an
entire morning there, standing before a Crucifixion, a Last Supper, her eye and her heart filled
with flowing emotion.

Her love for flowers became stronger than ever, and she began to study them. The most of them
she picked herself; those that grew only in gardens she bought from the florists, paying very
little for them. After she had made several purchases, they refused to take any more money
from her; they gave her just as many flowers as she wanted. She took them home, and made bouquets
out of them.

One evening she was frightened by Philippina, who came rushing up to her just as she was arranging
her flowers and told her that little Agnes had a high fever. Eleanore went out and got the
doctor, who immediately reassured her. As she returned, her astonishment was intense and unusual.
Reaching the door, her eyes fell on the flowers: they seemed wonderfully beautiful to her;
the harmony and play of their colours was so striking that she involuntarily looked around
in the illusion that a stranger had called during her absence, brought the flowers, and arranged
them in their artistic bouquets.

In the meantime poverty was haunting the house in very tangible form. Neither the butcher nor
the baker was willing any longer to deliver goods on credit. It was quite impossible for Eleanore
to support five people with her clerical work, to say nothing of keeping them in clothes and
paying the rent. However hard she might work, the most she could do was to get enough money
for the barest necessities. Her cares multiplied day by day.

She had always been an implacable foe of debts; she would not make them. But after all, the
people could not starve, and so she had to contract debts now. Bitter humiliations were unavoidable;
she looked into the future with untempered dread. She racked her brain trying to devise plans,
deplored her weakness and the gaps in her training, bemoaned the neglect both she and Daniel
were suffering, and was quite disturbed to see that Philippina’s heart was filled with joy
at the thought that the destitution of the household with its accompanying mental anguish was
rapidly increasing.

Twice a day the druggist sent in his bill; finally he came in person. It was along toward evening
when he rang. Philippina treated him so impolitely that he became impudent, and made such a
noise that the people on the lower floors came out into the hall and leaned over the railing
of the stairs. Eleanore ran down and stood before the man with folded hands. Jordan also left
his room and looked on, sighing.

Others came in and started trouble. Philippina came up to Eleanore, and, with a smile on her
face as if she were going to tell of some great good fortune that had come to the family, said:
“There’s another down there, Eleanore; come down and give him a piece of your mind, or I’m
thinking he’s going to call the police.”

After quiet had been restored, Philippina began to rage and rant: “Daniel’s a dunderhead. He
could live like a Kaiser if he’d mix with the right people. I know a woman who is lousy with
money, and she’s going to git a lot more; but Daniel, the poor bloke, ain’t got a ghost of
an idea as to how to work people.” She laughed furiously; or, in order to ventilate her spiteful
rage, she picked up some object and smashed it to pieces on the floor.

Eleanore did not hear what she had said. Her hope was gone. Daniel had been out of work for
three months: who could explain his strange inactivity? The rent would be due in a short while,
and then what?

One morning she went to Daniel’s room and said: “Daniel, we are out of money.”

He was sitting at the table reading; he looked at her as if he had to think for a while who
she was: “Just have patience,” he said, “you are not going to starve.”

“I am doing all that I possibly can, Daniel,” continued Eleanore; “but tell me, please, how
are you planning to keep the house going? I see no way out. Tell me, Daniel, tell me, please,
what you are going to do.”

“A musician must be poor, Eleanore,” replied Daniel, and looked at her with eyes that seemed
to be frozen.

“But he has got to live, I should think.”

“You can’t live from husks alone, and I am not going to work my head off for husks.”

“Daniel, oh Daniel, where is your mind? And where is your heart?” cried Eleanore in despair.

“Where I should have been long ago,” he replied, without the shadow of a ray of hope. He got
up, and turning his face away from Eleanore, said in a half-audible voice: “Let’s have no argument,
no cogency, no urgency. Not now! Not now when I am creeping along on the earth with such light
as is left me, trying to grope my way out of the hole. A man doesn’t give up the ghost so quickly
as all that, Eleanore. The stomach is a very elastic piece of skin.”

He went into the other room, sat down at the piano, and struck a slow-moving bass chord.

Eleanore turned to the wall, and buried her feverish brow in her hands.

                                  VII

It was not in Eleanore’s nature to submit to a misfortune without first having made every possible
effort to evade it.

She wrote for from fourteen to sixteen hours a day, with the result that she had finished all
that was asked of her long before her time was really up.

Then she looked around for a better paying position; it was in vain. Women had never been paid
well, she had no recommendations, no personal connections, nothing on which she could depend
or to which she might refer.

Finally it occurred to her that she might make some money out of her flowers. She went to the
florist at St. Lorenz Place, taking with her a garland of carnations and mignonettes she had
made the day before. She told the florist she knew a great deal about flowers and had had considerable
experience in handling them.

The man laughed at her, and told her he could find no sale for that kind of things, and that,
even if he could, he would have to ask so little for them that it would not pay her to make
them. Eleanore took her flowers back home; she was profoundly discouraged. She saw herself
how perishable flowers were; these withered that same evening. Nothing could be expected from
that source.

She had not noticed that, as she left the florist shop, a man on the other side of the street
had stopped and looked at her. He was a haggard young individual with a pale, peevish expression
on his face, a man with a chin the unimpressiveness of which was hidden behind a Vandyke beard.

He stood for a long while and looked at Eleanore as she walked down the street. There could
be no doubt but that something in her general bearing and her face had drawn his attention
to her; had awakened in him a feeling that was nobler than mere curiosity or the satisfaction
an idler derives from gaping.

The young man finally began to move; he walked rather stiffly across the square and entered
the florist’s shop. A few minutes later the florist, a man past middle age, with the typical
toper’s nose, threw open his door and removed his cap, actions which in addition to his fawning
bow were unmistakable proof to the merchants on either side of him that it was no ordinary
sale he had just made. The young man went his way, ambling along in shiftless indifference
to where he was or the time of day.

The next morning the florist’s errand boy came to Eleanore, and told her that his chief had
something very important to say to her, and that she should come at once. Eleanore followed
the call without delay. As she entered the shop, the florist greeted her with unusual politeness,
and told her that a man who took a special fancy to the kind of flowers she had shown him the
day before had been there and placed an order for two such bouquets, or even three, a week
at twenty marks each. He advised her to exercise all diligence in making the flowers and said
that when such a rain of good fortune descended upon one it was wise to let other things take
care of themselves. The only condition the florist imposed on her was absolute silence. The
customer did not wish his name to be known, nor did he wish to be seen. He remarked casually
that there was manifestly some whim or crotchet back of the man’s action, such as is so frequently
the case with aristocratic people.

Who was happier than Eleanore! She never bothered herself for a minute about the illogical
and legendary element in the offer of a man who only a day before had appeared so shrewd and
cautious. She drank in every word of the florist’s detailed statement, and merely believed
that in this city, among its inhabitants, there was an eccentric fellow who was willing to
pay such a princely price for her flowers simply because he liked flowers and was pleased with
the way she put them up. Though she had not been spoiled by fortune, the transformation that
had suddenly taken place in her circumstances awakened in her not the slightest suspicion or
surprise. She was too happy to be distrustful, too grateful to become inquisitive. Her thoughts
were on Daniel, who, she felt, was saved. The whole way home she smiled to herself as if lost
in dreams.

Evening after evening she sat with the flowers she had gathered in the forenoon from the forests,
the meadows, and the gardens out by the city fortress, where an old gardener went with her
and picked out the choicest specimens for her. He had a crippled son who fell in love with
Eleanore and always stood in the door and smiled at her when she came. He promised he would
get her flowers from the green house during the winter.

The butcher was paid, the baker was paid; the druggist was paid, and so was the rent. Philippina
shook her head, and swore there was something wrong. She was convinced that it would all come
out some day, even if you had to scratch the dung hill to get at the secret. She told the people
about a ghost that carried on every night up in the attic; and once when the moon was shining
she came running into the room and swore that a bony finger had rapped on the window.

Eleanore bound roses and gilliflowers, tulips and pansies, mosses, ferns, and what-not into
beautiful tapestried pictures, or wound them into wreaths and garlands. She gave herself up
to this novel occupation with the sacrificial love of a woman of her type; and at times she
became dizzy from so much fragrance. But this mattered not. She arranged her flowers; and then
she would lean out of the window, and sing gently into the night.

Daniel was ignorant of what she was doing; he had not troubled himself about the distressing
poverty of past weeks; he did not concern himself now with their abundance; where it came from
he never asked.

                                 VIII

Eberhard von Auffenberg had returned to the city shortly after the death of Gertrude Nothafft.
The last large sum he had received from Herr Carovius, now nearly a year ago, he had almost
used up. He found Herr Carovius quite changed in his attitude toward him. Herr Carovius declared
that he was bankrupt, that he could not get any more money for him. Instead of complaining
or boasting, or flattering his princely friend, or trying to incite him to activity of some
kind, as he had been accustomed to do, he wrapped himself in a silence that could not be regarded
as a favourable omen.

Eberhard had no desire to beg. Herr Carovius’s personality was so disagreeable to him that
he refused to investigate the cause of his novel behaviour. He let his thoughts take their
own course; and they drifted into other channels.

The gossip afloat concerning Eleanore had naturally reached his ears. Herr Carovius had seen
to it that there was no lack of insinuations, either written or oral. But Eberhard had ignored
them. Offensive insults that had dared attach themselves to Eleanore seemed to him as incredible
as litter from the street on the radiant moon.

One day he had to call on Herr Carovius because of a note that had been protested. They discussed
the affair in a dry, business-like way, and then, all of a sudden, Herr Carovius fixed his
piercing eyes on the Baron, walked around the table time after time, dressed in his sleeping
gown, and told, without the omission of a single detail, of the lamentable death of Daniel
Nothafft’s young wife.

He became highly excited; why, it would be hard to say. “Let us hope that the Kapellmeisterette
will come to his senses now,” he cried in a falsetto voice. “He is already on the point of
starvation; ah, believe me, he is nearly done for. It will be necessary to take up a collection
for the unrecognised genius. He has already put one of his women in the grave, the other is
still kicking. By the way, how do you like her, the angel? Are you not a bit sorry for the
neat little halo that now hangs like a piece of castoff clothing on the bedpost of an adulteress?
Of course, geniuses are allowed to do as they please. O Eleanore, bloody lie that you are,
you hypocritical soft, sneaking, slimy lie—Eleanore!”

With that Eberhard stepped up very calmly to the unleashed demon in pajamas, seized him by
the throat, and held him with such a fierce and unrelenting grip that Herr Carovius sank to
his knees, while his face became as blue as a boiled carp. After this he was remarkably quiet;
he crept away. At times he tittered like a simpleton; at times a venomous glance shot forth
from under his eyelids. But that was all.

Eberhard poured some water in a basin, dipped his hands in it, dried them, and went away.

The picture of the whining man with the puffed and swollen eyes and the blue face was indelibly
stamped on Eberhard’s memory. He had felt a greedy, voluptuous desire to commit murder. He
felt he was not merely punishing and passing final judgment on his own tormentor and persecutor,
but on the hidden enemy of humanity, the arch-criminal of the age, the destroyer of all noble seed.

And yet the exalted outburst of Herr Carovius had precisely the effect that Eberhard had least
expected. His confidence in Eleanore’s innocence had been shaken. There may have been in Herr
Carovius’s voice, despite the slanderous wrath with which his cowardly tongue was coated, something
that sounded truer than the wretch himself suspected. Eberhard saw just then, for the first
time in his life, the adored figure of the girl as a human being like all other human beings;
and as if through a distant vision he experienced in his heart what had taken place.

His illusions were destroyed.

In his soul he had gone through the trials of renunciation long ago. His passionate wishes
of former times had gone through a process of weakening from loss of blood. He had learned
to bow to the inevitable; he had made a special effort to acquire this bit of earthly wisdom.
When he surveyed the life he had lived in the past five years, it resembled, despite its flux
and the incessant change from city to city and country to country, a sojourn in a room with
closed doors and drawn shades.

When he had returned to the city, which he loved simply because Eleanore lived in it, he had
had no intention of reminding Eleanore of the expiration of the time mutually agreed upon.
He felt that it would be a banal display of poor taste to appear before her once again as an
awkward, jilted suitor, and try to reconnect the thread where it had been so ruthlessly broken
five years ago. He had intended not to disturb her or worry her in any way. But to go to her
and speak with her, that had been the one bright ray of hope in all these empty years.

After the scene with Herr Carovius he decided quite firmly to keep away from Eleanore.

His ready cash had shrunk to a few hundred marks. He discharged his servants, disposed of some
of his jewelry, and rented one of those little houses that are stuck on the rocks up by the
castle like so many wasp nests. The house he took had been occupied before him by the Pfragners,
and with its three rooms was not much larger than a fair-sized cage in a menagerie. But he
had taken it into his head to live there, and that was all there was to it. He bought some
old furniture, and adorned the slanting walls of the dilapidated barracks with such pictures
as he had.

One evening there was a knock at the green door of the cottage. Eberhard opened, and saw Herr
Carovius standing before him.

Herr Carovius entered the Baron’s doll house, looked around in astonishment, and, pale as a
sheet, said: “So help me God, it seems to me you are trying to play the rôle of a hermit. This
won’t do; this is no place for a Baron; I will not stand for it.”

Eberhard reached for the book he had been reading, a volume of Carl du Prel, and read on without
replying to Herr Carovius or even taking notice of the fact that he was present.

Herr Carovius tripped from one foot to the other. “Perhaps the Baron will be so good as to
take a look at his account,” he said in a beseeching tone. “I am in a tight place. My capital
is gone, and my debts in the shape of interest have been swelling like the Pegnitz in the spring
of the year. Would you like to know what I have been living on for the last three months? I
have been living on turnips, potato peelings, and brick cheese; that has been my daily diet;
and I have submitted to it for the sake of my Baron.”

“I am not a bit interested in what you have been eating,” said the Baron arrogantly, and kept
on reading.

Herr Carovius continued with an imbecile sulk: “When you left me recently because of that little
quarrel we had about the Goose Man, it never occurred to me that you were going to take the
matter so seriously. Lovers like to be teased, I thought. He’ll come back, I thought, he’ll
come back just as sure as laughter follows tickling. Well, I was mistaken. I thought you were
of a more gentle disposition, and that you would be more indulgent with an old friend. Yes,
we make mistakes sometimes.”

Eberhard remained silent.

Herr Carovius sighed, and sat down timidly on the narrow edge of the sofa that stood next to
the whitewashed wall. He sat there for almost an hour in perfect silence. Eberhard appreciated
neither the ridiculous nor the fantastic element in the conduct of his guest. He read on.

And then, all of a sudden, Herr Carovius sprang to his feet, took his wallet from his pocket,
drew out a thousand-mark note, and laid it, together with a blank receipt, across the page
Eberhard was reading. Before the Baron could recover from his amazement he had already disappeared,
closing the door behind him. The sound of his footsteps on the street could be heard in the
room; but he was gone.

What rare living creatures there are, O World, and what rare dead ones, too! This is the thought
that passed through Eberhard’s mind.

                                  IX

That two men as radically different by nature as Eberhard and Daniel chanced to meet and be
drawn together at the very period of their lives when both had voluntarily renounced human
society was due to one of those decrees of Providence that contain in them either a law of
crystallisation or the attraction of polar forces, however much they may seem to be matters
of pure chance.

Their coming together took place on the day after Daniel had gone to Eschenbach. At the break
of day, Daniel had decided to return by way of Schwabach, both for the sake of variety and
because this was the shorter route. The sun was hotter than on the day before; and when it
had reached the height of its ability to dry up the land and scorch a human being, Daniel lay
down in the forests. Late in the afternoon, just as he was approaching Schwabach, great black
clouds began to gather in the West; a fearful storm was evidently to be expected. Heavy streaks
of lightning flashed across the sky; and although Daniel tried to hasten his steps, the storm
overtook him. Before he could reach the shelter of a house, he was wet to the skin from head
to foot.

The rain came down in torrents. He waited a long while, and then had to start out in it again,
arriving finally at the station shivering with cold. As he went to buy his ticket he noticed
a lean, haggard, unusual looking individual standing at the ticket window. It is quite probable
that, vexed by his uncomfortable condition, Daniel treated him none too courteously; he pushed
up against him, whereupon the man turned around, and Daniel recognised the young Baron, Eberhard
von Auffenberg. Eberhard in turn recognised Daniel. It is unlikely that there was at that time
another face in the world which could belong so completely to just one person as that of Daniel.

The Baron had been attracted to Schwabach by his affection for a certain person there, an affection
he had preserved from the days of his childhood. There lived in Schwabach at the time a woman
who had been his nurse. Her undivided and resigned love for him was touching. She was as proud
of him as she might have been had she been able to say that in him she had been responsible
for the childhood training of the noblest specimen of manhood known to human history. And he
was fond of her; the stories she told him he could still recall, and he did recall them frequently
and with pleasure. She had married the foreman of a tin mill, and had sons and daughters of
her own. Eberhard had been planning for years to visit her. This visit had now been paid. But
Eberhard could not say that he had derived extraordinary pleasure from it: it had taken an
inner figure from his soul. And, on the other hand, whether the nurse felt, on seeing the tall,
lank, stiff, and ill-humoured foster son, that enraptured charm she so much liked to conjure
up before her imagination, is a question that had better remain unanswered.

When Eberhard became aware of the condition in which Daniel then found himself, his feelings
of chivalry were moved. With the dauntless courage of which he was capable, he subdued the
apathy he had cherished toward Daniel ever since he first came to know him, and to which actual
detestation and disquieting jealousy had been added a few weeks ago. “You have been out in
the rain,” said Eberhard courteously, but with a reserve that was rigid if not quite forbidding
or impenetrable.

“I look like it, don’t I?” said Daniel with a scowl.

“You will catch cold if you are not careful. May I offer you my top coat?” continued Eberhard
more courteously. He felt as if he could see the figure of Eleanore rising up behind Daniel,
that she was quite surrounded by flowers, and that she was smiling at him in joy and gratitude.
He bit his lips and blushed.

Daniel shook his head: “I am accustomed to all kinds of weather. Thank you.”

“Well, then, at least wrap this around your neck; the water is running down your back.” Thereupon
Eberhard reached him a white silk kerchief he drew from the pocket of his coat. Daniel make
a wry face, but took the kerchief, threw it about his neck, and tied it in a knot under his chin.

“You are right,” he admitted, and drew his head down between his shoulders: “It all reminds
me of a good warm bed.”

Eberhard stared at the locomotive of the in-coming train. “Plebeian,” he thought, with inner
contempt.

Nevertheless he joined this same plebeian in the third-class carriage, though he had bought
a ticket for first class. Was it the white silk kerchief that so suddenly attracted him to
the plebeian? What else could it have been? For during the entire journey they sat opposite
each other in absolute silence. It was a remarkable pair: the one in a shabby, wet suit with
a hat that looked partly as though it belonged to a cheap sign painter, and partly as though
it were the sole head gear of a gypsy bard, and with a big pair of spectacles from which the
eyes flashed green and unsteady; the other looking as though he had just stepped out of a bandbox,
not a particle of dust on his clothing, in patent leather slippers, English straw hat, and
with an American cigarette in his mouth.

Next to them sat a peasant woman with a chicken basket on her lap, a red-headed girl who held
the hind part of pig on her knees, and a workman whose face was bandaged.

At times they looked at each other. If they chanced to catch each other’s eye, the Baron would
at once look down, and Daniel, bored as he was, would gaze out of the window at the rain. But
there must have been something unusually communicative and mutually intelligent in the few
glances with which they involuntarily honoured each other during the journey; for when the
train pulled into the station, they left together, and walked along the street quite peacefully,
side by side, just as if it were to be taken as a matter of fact that they would remain in
each other’s company.

Man is a gregarious animal; given the right conditions, one man will seek out the company of
another. Neither defiance nor reserve is of the slightest avail; there is something that conquers
the strongest man when he finds another who will yield. Then it is that what was formerly regarded
as contentment with loneliness is unmasked and shown to be nothing more than ordinary self-deception.

“I presume you wish to go home and change your clothes,” said Eberhard, standing on the street
corner.

“I am already dry,” said Daniel, “and I really have no desire to go home. Over there on Schütt
Island is a little inn called the Peter Vischer. I like it because it is frequented only by
old people who talk about old times, and because it is situated on a bridge, so that you have
the feeling you are in a ship floating around on the water.”

Eberhard went along. From eight o’clock till midnight they sat there opposite each other. Their
conversation was limited to such remarks as, “It is really quite comfortable here.”—“It seems
to have stopped raining.”—“Yes, it has stopped.”—“That old white-bearded man over by the stove
who is doing so much talking is a watchmaker from Unschlitt Place.”—“So? He looks pretty husky.”—“He
is said to have fought in the battle of Wörth.”—And so their remarks ran.

When they separated, Eberhard knew that Daniel would again be at the Peter Vischer on Wednesday
of the following week, and Daniel knew that he would find the Baron there.

                                   X

Philippina was on her knees by the hearth, cleaning out the ashes; Eleanore was sitting by
the kitchen table, adding up the week’s expenses in a narrow note-book.

“You ought-a git married, Eleanore,” said Philippina, as she blew on a hot coal, “’deed you
ought; it’s the right time for you.”

“Ah, leave me alone,” said Eleanore angrily.

Philippina crouched still lower on the hearth: “I mean well by you, I do,” she said. “You’re
simply killing yourself here. With your white skin and sugary eyes—uhm, uhm! You bet if I had
’em like yours I’d git one. Men are all as dumb as shoats outside of a sty.”

“Keep quiet,” said Eleanore, and went on counting: “Seven from fifteen leaves eight....”

“An angel has made your bed,” interrupted Philippina with a giggle. “I know a fellow,” she
went on, her face becoming rather sour, “he’s just the right one. Money? whew! He’s stuck on
you too, believe me! If I wuz to go to him and say, Eleanore Jordan is willing, I believe the
old codger would give me a bag of gold. Cross my heart, Eleanore, and he’s a fine man too.
He can play the piano just as good as Daniel, if not better. When he plays you can see the
sparks fly.”

Eleanore got up, and closed the book. “Do you want me to give you a present for finding me
a man, Philippina?” she asked, with a sympathetic smile. “And you are trying to sound me? Go
on, you fool.”

“Come wind and blow my fire hot, so that my soup be not forgot,” whispered Philippina with
a gloomy face.

Eleanore left the kitchen and went upstairs. Her heart was full of longing; it was in truth
almost bursting with longing.

                                  XI

It was at the beginning of October that Daniel for the first time visited Eberhard in his doll
house up by the castle.

They had met each other in the Peter Vischer on the evening agreed upon, but there was a special
party there that evening, a sort of a clam-bake; the place was crowded; the noise was disagreeable,
so that they left much earlier than they had intended.

They walked along in silence until they reached the Town Hall, when Eberhard said: “Won’t you
come up and sit awhile with me?” Daniel nodded.

Eberhard lighted the six candles of a chandelier in his diminutive room. Seeing that Daniel
was surprised, he said: “There is nothing I hate worse than gas or oil. That is light; gas
and oil merely give off illuminated stench.”

For a while there was complete silence in the room; Daniel had stretched out on the sofa.

“Illuminated stench,” he repeated with a smile of satisfaction. “That is not bad; it is the
new age in which we are living. I believe they call it fin de siècle. The day when things flourish
is gone; everything has to be manufactured now. Men have become Americans, gruesomely sobered
by the intoxication of doing a big business; women have lost their nicety of instinct; the
cities have become colossal steam engines; everybody, young and old, is on his belly adoring
the so-called wonders of science, just as if it really meant anything to humanity that a loafer
in Paris can sip his morning coffee and crunch his rolls while reading that the Pope spent
a restful night, or that a gun has been invented which will send a bullet through fourteen
people one after another, whereas the best record up to the present had been only seven to
a shot. Who can create anything, who can draw anything from his soul under such conditions?
It is madness, it is immoral discipline.”

“Oh, I don’t know; I think a man can draw something from within his soul,” said the Baron,
in whose face a bored, peeved expression gave way to one of suspense. “It is possible, for
example, to conjure the invisible spirit into visibility.”

Daniel, who had not yet suspected that the Baron was, in a way, speaking from another country
and in a strange tongue, continued: “The whole supply of interest and enthusiasm at the disposal
of the nation has been used up. The venerable creations of days gone by still have nominal
value; that is, they are still gaped at and praised, but creative, reproductive, and moulding
power they no longer have. Otherwise hocus-pocus alone prospers, and he who does forgive it
is not forgiven. But life is short; I feel it every day; and if you do not attend to the plant,
it soon withers and dies.”

“It is not only hocus-pocus,” replied Eberhard, who was now completely transformed, though
he did not grasp the painful indignation of the musician. “You see, I have associated but very
little with men. My refuge has been the realm of departed and invisible spirits who take on
visible form only when a believing soul makes an unaffected appeal to them. It was my task
to de-sensualise and de-materialise myself; then the spirits took on shape and form.”

Daniel straightened up, and saw how pale the Baron had become. It seemed to him that they were
both quite close together, and at the same time poles removed from each other. He could not
refrain however from taking up the thread of his thought. “Yes, yes,” he exclaimed with the
same short, jerky laugh that accompanied the beginning of the conversation, “my little spirits
also demand faith, credulity, and whine and cry for form and shape. You have expressed yourself
in an admirable way, Baron.”

“And have you given up in final resignation with regard to your spirits?” asked Eberhard, in
a serious tone.

“Resignation? To what? Of what? Do you imagine that is necessary in my case? I am the counterpart
of Cronos. My children devour me; they devour my living body. I conjure up spirits and endow
them with flesh and blood, and in return for what I do they convert me into a shadow. They
are rebellious fellows, I tell you, quite without mercy. I am supposed to arouse a citizenry
on their behalf that is petrified with indifference. The very thing, or things, that offend
and disgust me, I am supposed to take up and carry about on an unencumbered shoulder. I am
supposed to be their prostitute and offer them my body at a price. I am supposed to be their
retail grocer and haggle in their behalf. There is something inspiring about a struggle, and
when the enemy is worthy of one’s steel there is a distinct pleasure in entering the fray.
But my little spirits want to be pampered and have a lot of attention paid them. The hate,
consequently, that is being dammed up within me is possibly nothing but rage at my fruitless
wooing. No, mine is not an honest hate, because I long to get at every ragged beggar who will
have nothing to do with my spirits, because my entire life consists in pleading for an audience
with people who do not care to listen, and scraping together pennies of love from people who
cannot love, because two or three are not enough for me, because I must have thousands and
am nothing if I don’t have thousands, and pine away in anguish and distress if I cannot imagine
that the whole world is keeping step with my pace and keeping in time with the swing of my
baton. I can despise Mushroom Mike who lies down by his wife at night drunk as a fool, and
to whom the name of Beethoven is an empty sound; Jason Philip Schimmelweis makes me laugh when
he looks me in the face and says, I don’t give a damn for all your art. And yet there is humanity
in such people, and so long as this is true I must have them; I must convince them, even if
my heart is torn from my breast in the attempt. Would you call this life? This digging-up of
corpses from the graves, and breathing the breath of life into them so that they may dance?
And doing it with the consciousness that this moment is the only one? I am; I exist; here is
the table, there are the wax candles, and over there sits a man; and when I have stopped talking
everything is different, everything is as if a year had passed by, and everything is irrevocable.
Show me a way to humanity, to men, and then I will believe in God.”

The Baron’s head swam; his brain felt close; it seemed to be sultry, stuffy in his skull. He
could not help but think of certain exciting meetings where the people had sat in the dark
in trembling expectancy and then suddenly heard a voice from beyond the tomb at the sound of
which the marrow froze in their bones. He hardly dared look at the place where Daniel was sitting.
The words of the musician caused him infinite pain: there lay in them a greediness, a shamelessness,
and a gruesomeness that filled him with terror.

He could almost have asked: And Eleanore? And Eleanore?

But however much he felt repelled, owing to his training, association, and general views of
life, there was nevertheless something about the whole situation before which he bowed. He
could not have said precisely what it was, but it seemed to be a compromise between fear and
convulsion.

As he was pondering over it all, he heard a rattling at the window. He looked up, and saw the
face of Herr Carovius pressed so tightly against the pane that his nose was as flat as a pancake,
while his glasses looked like two opalescent grease spots on the water.

Daniel also looked up; he too saw the face of Herr Carovius, then distorted with wrath and
filled with threats. He looked at the Baron in amazement; the latter got up and said: “You
will have to pardon the annoyance; I forgot to draw the blinds.”

With that he went to the window, and pulled down the dark shade over the face of Herr Carovius.

                                  XII

That same night, just as Daniel was crossing the hall of his apartment, he detected a strong
scent of flowers. He had smelt them before, but they had never seemed to be so fragrant as
at present. Because of the season of the year, the sensation was all the more pronounced and
unusual.

He sniffed around for a while, and then saw that the door to Eleanore’s room was open: her
light was shining out on the stairs.

When Daniel was not at home of an evening, Eleanore always kept her door open so that she could
hear when he came in. Daniel was unaware of this; he had never seen the light on any previous
night.

He thought for a moment, then locked the door, and went up the stairs. But Eleanore must have
heard his approaching footsteps; for she stepped hastily out into the vestibule, and said with
evident embarrassment: “Please stay downstairs, Daniel; Father is asleep. If you wish I will
come down to the living room.”

She did not wait for his answer, but went into her room, got the table lamp, and followed Daniel
to the living room. Daniel closed the window, and shook as if he were cold; for it was a cool
night, and there was no fire in the stove.

“What is this I smell?” he asked. “Have you so many flowers up in your room?”

“Yes, I have some flowers,” replied Eleanore, and blushed.

He looked at her rather sharply, but was disinclined to make any further inquiry, or he was
not interested in knowing what this all meant. He walked around the room with his hands in
his pockets.

Eleanore had sat down on a chair; she never once took her eyes off Daniel.

“Listen, Daniel,” she said suddenly, and the violin tone of her voice lifted him from his mute
and heavy meditations, “I know now what Father is doing.”

“Well, what is the old man doing?” asked Daniel distractedly.

“He is working at a doll, Daniel.”

“At a doll? Are you trying to poke fun at me?”

Eleanore, whose cheeks had turned pale, began to tell her story: “Yesterday afternoon, Father
took advantage of the beautiful weather, and went on a walk for the first time in a long while.
During his absence, I went to his room to straighten it up a little. I noticed that the door
to the large cabinet was not closed as usual, but was standing ajar. He probably forgot to
lock it. I did not suspect anything, and knew that there was no harm in what I was going to
do, so I opened the door, and what did I see? A big doll, about the size of a four-year-old
child, a wax figure with big eyes and long, yellow hair. But there were no clothes on it: the
lower part of the back and the front from the neck to the legs had been removed. Inside, there
where a person’s heart and entrails are, was a network of wheels and screws and little tubes
and wires, all made of real metal.”

“That is strange, really strange. Well?”

“He is making something,” continued Eleanore, “that much is clear. But if I could tell you
how I felt when I saw the thing! I never felt so sad in my life. I have shown him so little
love, just as Fate has been so unlovely to him. And everything—the air and the light and the
people and how one feels towards the people and how they feel towards you, all seemed to me
to be so hopelessly without love that I could not help it: I just sat down before that doll
and cried. The poor man! The poor old man!”

“Strange, really strange,” repeated Daniel.

After a while, as if conscious of his guilt, he took a seat by the table. Eleanore however
got up, went to the window, and leaned her forehead against the glass.

“Come here to me, Eleanore,” said Daniel in a changed tone of voice.

She came. He took her hand and looked into her face. “How in the world have you been keeping
the house going all this time?” he asked, viewing the situation in the light of his guilty
conscience.

Eleanore let her eyes fall to the floor. “I have done my writing, and I have had considerable
success with the flowers. I have even been able to save a little money. Don’t look at me like
that, Daniel. It was nothing wonderful I did; you have no reason to feel especially grateful
to me.”

He drew her down on his knees, and threw his arms around her shoulders. “You probably think
I have forgotten you,” he said sorrowfully, and looked up, “that I have forgotten my Eleanore.
Forget my Eleanore? My spirit sister? No, no, dear heart, you have known for a long while that
we have begun our common pilgrimage—for life, for death.”

Eleanore lay in his arms; her face was perfectly white; her body was rigid; her eyes were closed.

Daniel kissed her eyes: “You must hold me, keep me, even when it seems that I have left you,”
he murmured.

Then he carried her in his arms through the door into his room.

“I have so longed, I have been so full of longing,” she said, pressing her lips to his neck.

                                 XIII

Before one could realise it, winter had come, and the Place with the Church was covered with snow.

Eleanore had gone skating; when she returned she sat down in the living room to wait for Daniel.
There she sat with her fur cap on her head, holding her skates in her hand by the cord: she
was tired—and she was thinking.

Daniel entered the room and greeted her; she looked up, and said with a gentle voice: “I am
with child, Daniel; I found it out to-day.”

He fell on his knees, and kissed the tips of her fingers. Eleanore drew a deep breath; a smile
of dream-like cheerfulness spread over her face.

The following day Daniel went to the Town Hall, and made arrangements to have the banns posted.

Hardly had Philippina heard that Daniel and Eleanore were to get married in February when she
disappeared; she did not leave a trace of her whereabouts behind her. Little Agnes cried in
vain for her “Pina.” Six days after Philippina had left, she came back just as mysteriously
as she had gone away. She was desperately gloomy; her hair was towsled, her clothes were wrinkled,
there were no soles on her shoes; she was as speechless as a clod, and remained so for weeks.

No one knew, nor has any one ever found out, what she did during those six days or where she
had been.

Eleanore insisted on a church wedding; this caused Daniel a great deal of worry; it made him
run many a vexatious errand. But he consented to do as Eleanore had asked; for he did not wish
to deprive her of any pleasure she might imagine such a ceremony would give her. Eleanore made
her own white dress and her veil. Gisela Degen, a younger sister of Martha Rübsam, and Elsa
Schneider, the daughter of the rector of the Church of St. Ægydius, were to be her bridesmaids.
Marian Nothafft and Eva were also to come over from Eschenbach; Eleanore had already sent them
the money for the tickets.

“Help me with my sewing, Philippina,” said Eleanore one evening, and handed her silent house
companion the veil, the border of which had to be made.

Philippina took her seat opposite Eleanore, and began to sew; she was silent. In the meanwhile,
little Agnes, tottering about on the floor, fell and began to cry in a most pitiable fashion.
Eleanore hastened over and picked the child up. Just then she heard a sound as if cloth were
being torn. She looked around, and saw that the veil had an ugly rip in it: “You wicked thing!
What do you mean, Philippina?” she exclaimed.

“I didn’t do it; it tore itself,” growled Philippina, taking every precaution to see that Eleanore
might not catch her cowardly eye.

“You just leave that alone! Keep your hands off of it! You will sew evil thoughts into my veil,”
replied Eleanore, filled with forebodings.

Philippina got up. “Well, it’s torn anyway, the veil,” she said in a defiant tone; “if harm
is to come it will come; you can’t keep it off by sending me away.” Philippina left the room.

The injury to the veil was not as great as Eleanore had feared. It was a relatively easy matter
to cut off the torn piece entirely, and still use the remainder.

But from that hour Eleanore was filled with sadness: her face might be compared to a beautiful
landscape on which the first fog of autumn has settled. It is probable that the tearing of
her veil had nothing to do with her depression: there was not a shimmer of superstition in
her. Perhaps it was merely happiness and fulfilment: it may be that she felt the end had come,
that happiness and fulfilment leave nothing more to be desired, that life from then on would
be nothing but a hum-drum existence which does not give but only takes.

Perhaps her mind was darkened and weighed down with grief because of the life within her body;
for that which is to come sends out its rays of melancholy just as well as that which has come
and gone. What was there to hinder a pure soul from having an inner premonition of the fate
that was in store for it? Why should this soul not learn in its dreams of the inevitable that
was not so far ahead?

It was impossible to notice any change in Eleanore; her eyes were bright; she seemed peaceful.
She would often sit before the mask of Zingarella; she hung it with fresh flowers every day:
to her the mask was a mysterious picture of all that her own being, her own life, embraced.

Marian Nothafft came to the wedding alone. Just as in the case of Daniel’s wedding to Gertrude,
she had left the child with a neighbour. She told Daniel and Eleanore that she could not think
of taking the child out on such a journey in the dead of winter. She mentioned Eva’s name or
talked about her only in a half audible, subdued voice, a tender smile playing gently about
her lips.

Among those present at the wedding in the Ægydius Church were Judge and Frau Rübsam, Councillor
Bock, Impresario Dörmaul, Philippina Schimmelweis, Marian Nothafft, and Inspector Jordan. On
the very last bench sat Herr Carovius; underneath one of the pillars, unseen by most of the
people in the church, stood Baron Eberhard von Auffenberg.

Philippina walked along in an ugly, crouched, cowering fashion by the side of Jordan; had it
not been that she was constantly chewing her finger nails, one would have thought she was asleep.

As the bridal couple was marching up to the altar, the sun broke out, and shone through the
windows of the old church. The effect was touching; for just then Eleanore raised her head,
stroked her veil back from her forehead, and caught the full light of the sun in her radiant face.

Old Jordan had laid his forehead on the prayer-desk; his back was quivering.

                                  XIV

Late at night and in senseless excitement—for he was thinking of a bridal bed that filled him
with the most intense pangs of jealousy—Herr Carovius sat in his room playing Chopin’s étude
of the revolution. He would begin it again and again; he struck the keys with ever-increasing
violence; the time in which he played the étude became wilder and wilder; the swing of his
gestures became more and more eloquent; and his face became more and more threatening.

He was squaring accounts with the woman he had been unable to bring before his Neronic tribunal
in bodily form; and all the pent-up hatred in his heart for the musician Nothafft he was emptying
into the music of another man. The envy of the man doomed to limit his display of talent to
the appreciation of what another had created laid violent hands on the creator; the impotence
of the taster was infuriated at the cook. It was as if a flunked and floored comedian had gone
out into the woods to declaim his part with nothing but the echo of his own voice to answer back.

His hatred of things in general, of the customs of human society, of order and prosperity,
of state and family, of love and marriage, of man and woman, had burst out into lurid flames.
It was rare that a man had so cut, slashed, and vilified himself as did this depatriated citizen
while playing the piano. He converted music into an orgy, a debauch, a debasing crime.

“Enough!” he bellowed, as he closed with an ear-splitting discord. He shut the piano with a
vituperative bang, and threw himself into a rickety leather chair.

What his inner eye saw mocks at language and defies human speech. He was in that house over
there; it lay in his power to murder his rival; he could abuse the woman who had been denied
him by the wily tricks of circumstances; he chastised her; he dragged her from her bed of pleasure
by the hair. He feasted on her sense of shame and on the angry twitchings of the musician,
tied, bound, and gagged. He spared them no word of calumniation. The whole city stood before
his court, and listened to the sentence he passed. Everybody stood in awe of him.

Thus it is that the citizen of the moral stature of Herr Carovius satisfies his thirst for
revenge. Thus does the Nero of our time punish the crimes mankind commits against him in that
it creates pleasures and enjoyments of which he is not in a position to partake.

But because he felt more abandoned to-day than ever, and more fearful in his abandonment, and
because he felt so keenly the injustice done him by the man on whom he had hung for years with
dog-like fidelity, and who avoided him to-day as one avoids an old dog that is no longer fit
for anything, he decided in the depths of his embittered soul to avenge himself, and to do
it by a means that would be quite different from playing the piano in accordance with the rules
of his own perverted fancy.

With this decision in mind he sought sleep—at last.

                                  XV

Jordan was now living all alone in the two attic rooms. He had asked of his own will that he
be permitted to take over the clerical work Eleanore had been doing, and her employers had
agreed to this arrangement. He was consequently enabled to pay the rent and a little on his board.

Daniel and Eleanore slept in the corner room in the front. Daniel moved his piano into the
living room, and did all his work there. Philippina and Agnes remained in the room next to
the kitchen.

Eleanore still made the bouquets, and still received the fancy price for them from the unknown
purchaser. But she did not attend to her flowers in Daniel’s presence, or even near him; she
did this in the old room up next to the roof.

Her father would sit by her, and look at her thoughtfully. She had the feeling that he knew
of everything that had taken place between her and Gertrude and Daniel, but, out of infinite
delicacy and modesty, and also in grief and pain, had never said a word about it. For previous
to her marriage with Daniel, he had never been with her; he had never sat and looked at her
so attentively; he had always passed by her in great haste, and had always shown an inclination
to be alone.

She had the feeling that he knew a great deal in general about men and things, but rarely said
anything because of his superior sense of gentleness and compassion.

Daniel lived about as he did before the wedding. He would sit at the table until late at night
and write. It often happened that Eleanore would find him sitting there with his pen in his
hand, sound asleep, when she got up early in the morning. She always smiled when this took
place, and wakened him by kissing him on the forehead.

He wrote the notes direct from his memory, from his head, just as other people write letters.
He no longer needed an instrument to try what he had composed or to give him an inspiration
for a new theme.

Once he showed Eleanore eighteen variations of the same melody. He had spent the whole night
making changes in a single composition. Eleanore’s heart was heavy: she came very nearly asking,
“For whom, Daniel? For what? The trunk up in the attic?”

She slowly began to perceive that it is not brooding reason that climbs and conquers the steps
of perfection, but moral will. Like a flash of lightning she recognised one day the demoniacal
element in this impulse, an impulse she had been accustomed to ascribe to his everlasting fidgeting,
fumbling, and grumbling. She shuddered at the hitherto unsuspected distress of the man, and
took pity on him: he was burying himself in darkness in order to give the world more light.

The world? What did it know about the creations of her Daniel! The big trunk was full of opus
upon opus, and not a soul troubled itself about all these musical treasures resting in a single
coffin.

