PATENT LAWS OF THE REPUBLIC OF HAWAII, AND RULES OF PRACTICE IN THE PATENT OFFICE.

FIFTH EDITION, 1897.

HONOLULU: HAWAIIAN GAZETTE COMPANY. 1897.

PATENT LAWS OF THE REPUBLIC OF HAWAII.

ACTS NOW IN FORCE.

AN ACT

TO REGULATE THE ISSUING OF PATENTS.

  Be it Enacted by the King and the Legislative Assembly of
  the Hawaiian Islands, in the Legislature of the Kingdom
  Assembled:

SECTION 1. All patents shall be issued in the name of His Majesty the King, under the Seal
of the Interior Department, and shall be signed by the Minister of Interior and countersigned
by the Commissioner of Patents, and they shall be recorded together with the specifications
in the office of the Interior Department in books kept for the purpose.

SECTION 2. Every patent shall contain a short title or description of the invention or discovery,
correctly indicating its nature and design, and a grant to the patentee, his heirs or assigns
for the term of ten[A] years, of the exclusive right to make, use and vend the invention or
discovery throughout the Hawaiian Islands, referring to the specification for the particulars
thereof. A copy of the specifications and drawings shall be annexed to the patent and be a
part thereof.

SECTION 3. Provided, however, that any person who has invented or discovered any new and useful
art, machine, manufacture, process or composition of matter, or any new and useful improvement
thereof, and has received a patent or patents therefor from any foreign government may also
obtain a patent therefor in this country as provided above, unless the thing patented has been
introduced into public use in the Hawaiian Islands for more than one year prior to the application
for a patent. But every patent granted for an invention which has been previously patented
in a foreign country, shall be so limited that it shall not continue longer than the time of
the expiration of such foreign patent, or if there are several foreign patents, it shall not
continue longer than the time of the expiration of the one with the shortest unexpired term,
and in no case shall it be in force more than ten[A] years.

SECTION 4. When the nature of the case admits of drawings the applicant shall furnish them
as set forth in Section 2. When the invention or discovery is of a composition of matter, the
applicant shall furnish a specimen of ingredients and of the composition, sufficient in quantity
for the purpose of experiment. In all cases which admit of representation by model, the applicant
shall, if required, furnish a model of convenient size to exhibit advantageously the several
parts of his invention. Let
each, as he's exaggerating!

Nice! And maybe even right! I do not understand these things. But I always hear say, the poetry
should reflect life. Ok, that's life but also its downside. And the truth is light and shadow.
Do not you think that you it is the truth are guilty, even of the
less lovable characters, for example, running around in Italy to take
notice?

Once I have a book about to announce the Italian national character - certainly! But I give
Stories. If I prefer to write Gcschichten that appeal to myself, as shadows from the reverse side
of nature, whom I cheat, than those who find their interest is, to
be cheating?

But you made me curious about the much-vaunted downside. What do you mean?

Go! This is easily said.

If I mistake not, it is the genuine force of nature that attracts you to these women, the lack
of tame and lame guesthouse and Education Institute, the unbridled with a word.

And the noble race, not to mention, the very rich system that you are a confident lot may have
about themselves as an innately poorer nature - I will turn.

Agreed!

And I give you also undertakes that the passions under the sky let off steam in some large scale,
in a natural grandeur, even the allerverruecktesten, that even the main passion of sex - both
within and beyond the mountains - with all this comic reserves rather
grandiose.

A, main passion?

I think the addiction to get a man. You laugh? I can tell you that my Thing other than fun, since
I have had occasion over that issue studies to make.

To which I would be curious.

I will not deny you the adventure, although for an idealist, as you are, be a thankful substance
is. Only I will first give a little fire our conductor. Un po 'di fuoco, s'il vous plait, monsieur?-This
interview was a beautiful summer night led high up in a French Imperial diligence, the two horses and
fourteen mules hauled up in a slow trot, a broad avenue of the Mont Cenis was. Although the sky
was ausgestirnt glorious, but only a faint glow was on the valleys to the side of the road,
from which rose up the heavy tops of the chestnuts, so that give up the pleasure of the view
had to.

And as whip, call the mule driver the long uphill tense next to her
animals were running, and one hundred times Schellengelaeute not a
sound sleep, have suggested, a German writer had to be satisfied when
he was three thousand feet above sea level, such a sympathetic reviewers
next to him was, as my neighbor Coupe seemed to be with all the controversy.

We have been of tower from the railway line up to the mountains moved together, silently each pressured into a
corner.

Only the name calling in the distribution of seats had the Ice broken, since we both were not
entirely foreign.

Do you know of Pisa? he asked, after he lighted his cigar at the bidding
of the French.

I told him that I only recently a full fortnight in this most peaceful of all Universitaetsstaedte
the world would have spent studying sake.

Well, you know at the end of my widow but by sight or by hearing. If you are ever in the wide road,
which is called the Borgo, passed a house with green shutters and have a window of the first floor
of a shrill soprano voice of that duet hear the singing of "Norma": sin Ah 'all' all ore 'ore
on bronze -?

I said no.

Thank your Creator, he said with a sigh that hartgeprueften from a breast seemed to come. You
see, this voice was why. I am unfortunately quite unmusical, otherwise they would have warned
me, perhaps, rather than to lure me into the net. But if in a few dozen students unsaeuberlichen
apartments is crawling - the best furnished Rooms were in the middle of the semester, already
forgiven long ago - and then hears from a neat home depends on which of Mietszettel, a woman pitch
pipe, so you will understand that we think we hear a voice from heaven, even if one is a better
musician than I do. But I must first preface what I actually had to look in Pisa. See You, this
is also connected Sun I am an architect, you know. In the small German Predatory state that
I, as my closer, unfortunately, much love to close his country dutifully and honor, I am without
reporting fame, about the only of my subject, to the somewhat understands build what will go
beyond the commonly Menschenstaelle of three storeys. Once you get through N. it should be, do not
forget to view our new arsenal, wherein the seven country guns are kept carefully under lock and
key, so they do not shoot away over the border. This arsenal was built by me and me not only the
thanks of his country, but also the special favor of our Serenissimus acquired. If he again
performs his favorite plan to make performance a wall around his land along the lines of the
Chinese, I can be sure of this glorious mission. Preliminary has he told me his grace on an inconspicuous
but pleasant way, I testified by sent me with a scientific mission to Italy. We have namely as one
of the main attractions of our residence located in the castle park a leaning tower. Malicious, unpatriotic
people claim it is this artistic curiosity received very natural, because a later-scale carp
pond in the vicinity of this former Wachttuermchens the ground softened around and have thus caused
the reduction. One can our country's father did not pay greater insult than when they think hochverraeterische
MATTER. When he, therefore, one day, asking me for my expert opinion, was I diplomat enough to reply,
I was, because I do not know Italy, unable to prove in which our historical connection with the
famous leaning tower of Pisa, Bologna, etc. are Modena would like. Only a comprehensive study
of the entire medieval unbalanced structure can lead to a just appreciation
of our native monumental romance, the material .

Provide That worked. Already next day I received the letter by Cabinet highest of all order
to compete, an art trip to Italy for a whole year to come at the expense of the Cabinet office
Studies on a comprehensive work to make about the leaning towers in Italy and Germany. I went into
the more joyful it, because I was engaged recently and without such I hardly higher mission
as soon would have broken loose, the promised land at last with eyes to see what I would be but
my job long ago been guilty.

Allow me to remark, I said that after these messages with their experiences Italian girls and
women seem to me not as concrete proof as before. A German Groom, who has to pay particular
attention to be grown on all skew-In all the highest order! He was laughing in my word. But
a year is long, and both The Lord of the country as the mistress of my heart will find it forgivable
that I I worked in the leisure hours with just grown beauties. No, listen You only my Pisan Fata.
This city that I saved up for the return. The Bell tower of the Pisa cathedral-picks to me,
that I feed him last!-I said to myself itself, and thought a full four weeks in Pisa obzuliegen
my measurements and perhaps a piece of my book about the Schiefbau write down here in the silence,
so I except plans and drawings Serenissimo could bring something to read. Now, however, I said,
I had almost given up already, to find a decent private housing, as I am dead tired sultry
afternoon stroll through the Borgo and as suddenly as if from heaven hear down from a window just
above the "Camere da affittare" the blaring vocals. Hinaufstuerzen knock, and tell your Cinderella
Kuechenmaedchen of my homeless situation, was as witty narrator say, the work of a moment. The
thing looked me the brim of his hat to shoes. She laughed and shook his head. No, no, she said,
here is nothing .-- But let the note? 'I said. And yet it is clear out: First floor - yes, but
not per gli uomini! she said, and wanted the door strike again .-- What? I cried, not for men?
Now, by heaven, you shall see, that even a German patient can be a beast, if only the beasts
in Pisa a human neighborhood find - Che, che she said, and wanted to with laughter, it was not meant.
Only to male humans would not award the room. Their Mistress was a widow and hosts ladies only. However,
she wanted to ask first, I They just want to come .-- led me, still laughing, through the kitchen
in a very clean Room, where a large, vierschlaefriges poster bed was an old chest of drawers and
some Rohrstuehle, the stone floor with woven mats carefully documented, but what I most eye
stabbed-a powerful square table in the middle of room, just one, as my desire Was to the drawing
board and folders can be easily spread out. Here you will stay! called a voice within me, and
if the price would be that you deny your sex and on the distaff spin this yarn would have to Omphale.
As I hear the next song and the piano is stopped suddenly, and his message Cinderella with constant
Giggle hosts. I barely had time to rehearse me a heart-stirring speech, there goes the door,
enters, and my widow, in a night of suspicious white robe, but undoubted chastity, strong, black
hair in curlers, with an attitude and facial expression that I knew at once: that was already
on the boards! But she was even not bad, I can tell you. Something system to fatten the nose for
my taste perhaps a little dull, not everything the very first freshness, but for a widow extremely
well preserved, and a pair of large, black eyes in his head, like - now you can give yourself
a suitable metaphor to look for; what you are poet?

I, as a visual artist, had gone at first glance all the merits of this lady, but even if they track
copper for my work would have been good over the Schiefbau: the beautiful big stage, they would
have let me seem charming. I think I have in my life no greater eloquence in a foreign language
developed than now, when it was their to defeat virtuous prejudices. I was indeed, 'said I,
however, a man person (Persona maschia - selected Italian, right?), But by such a female disposition,
I would have learned even in my youth by a beautiful woman the filet knitting. No one in the
whole neighborhood will ever see me come home drunk and immoral Acquaintances to call it lying in
Pisa, far from me. Even smoking would I mentioned if she was uncomfortable, and like any price
they demand for the quarter, safe prepay.

They listened to me quietly, and my pathetic adjuration seemed to make an impression on them.
At least they finally said they have nothing myself against it, but she was a young widow, and her
uncle, the guardian of their children's wishes, not that they bring their reputation at risk
by renting the rooms now superfluous to men. I immediately asked to the home of this wise man
and listened to my horror that I do not hope was allowed to even try it on my persuasion, he
traveled straight to Florence it .-- So I have to despair because really? I cried with such undisguised
grief (I had just flirted again with the table) that the good, were not very soul stone widow
began to melt. Come again in the afternoon, she said, I want to see if it will make is. Erminia,
go with out the Lord! - So they made me a bow as a princess The ambassador has received one, and
I was laid off in favor and grace.

You can imagine that I'm in a no small stir my risotto in that Mustertrattorie Italy, the "Neptune"
on the Lungarno consumed, and just doubled my habitual diet wine to drink. I had energy for the
case to which I only could think of with horror that I know such a table in Pisa and to return
it, As so often, woefully out of chairs with a stick and umbrella timbered Notgestell would have
to make do.

And as I rose so up against three clock back the stone steps, patted me properly the heart, as
if it was not a piece of wood, but the owner himself and I should just take notice to a much
more dubious claim. This time they came I done to black elected to receive some hair costume
and did not seem too completely at ease. I put this out in my favor and not a little startled
when she I opened without much preface, it questioned in the absence of his uncle, the aunt
who also mean, can not take this step to answer well. A young widow - and lowered them with
quite deceptive bashful her black eyes - even if they do artist was - and in years where there
has not renounced a new Lebensglueck - you will Understand that there are main consideration and the
one his family is guilty, and the desire of my uncle to see me married again - a galantuomo
like you, sir, is the lucky a solitary young woman do anything in its path.

On the contrary, my dear lady, I cried lively - always the eyes on
my beautiful Table attached - rather, I would be uebergluecklich,
can prove to you how much I appreciate your restraint, as much as
I please because of the charms, talents and virtues, adorn their person,
admire and adore.

Yes you are right, and your dignified Uncle is right: a being as you are made to be happy and
make happy. The poorest, who this lucky enjoyed for so short a time! How long is it to you
already rescued?

Ten months, she said, without the memory they seemed especially to attack. He traveled Naples, fell
under the brigands - and did not return. Shall I give you his photograph ? Show

So they went ahead of me in the next room, that was something furnished abundant and apparently
was used as a kind of salon. Here stood near the wing, an elegant desk the window, some colorful
bird cage hung from the ceiling and the walls were covered with Portraits
of famous Theatergroessen covered.

In the most insignificant part over the sofa, with a dusty laurel wreath around, I saw the picture
of an earnest man in middle Years, whom she introduced me as her blessed. Even now, I have
no trace of Gemuetsbewegung discover on her face. The canaries screaming, crept a little Wachtelhuendchen
produced under the sofa and began to bark, Cinderella I heard through the keyhole , Hereinkichern
and in the middle of this tumult was my beautiful and spoke calmly of a new Lebensglueck,
and they invited me to sit on the sofa beside her.

I voiced my surprise at her, that she was already ten months alone, without all sides to be
wooed .-- I am waehlerisch she said. I was happy with my Carlo, at the risk of exposing myself,
I retain someone who loved me less than he said.

Several have stopped for me, even before yesterday a young count, I would have the also well
taken, but he was too young for me, only nineteen years, and I'm already twenty-three. The poor
man took me of course, but what do you want? One can but not all marry, before losing the love
for a reason.

Of course not, I replied. What did you want to start with such a child? Only a more mature man
who knows life would have, their value and appreciate all Them to
some extent replace the lost.

She sighed. O men! she said. They are all selfish!

Only the youth has not devotion and enthusiasm for the beautiful. The tires are cold and are no longer
capable, happy to make.

It would depend on the trial, I said, half-innocent, half vcrsuchen to them, for I realized Well,
as things stood, and that the aunt under certain conditions its veto would like to pull back.
 Upon filing such application, the applicant or applicants shall pay to the Minister
of the Interior a fee of five dollars.

SECTION 4. Upon receiving such application so accompanied, and the payment of such fee, the
Minister of the Interior shall cause the said print, label or trade mark to be recorded in
a book to be kept for that purpose, and shall issue to the applicant or applicants a certificate
of registration under the seal of the Department of the Interior; and such certificate of registration
shall secure to the applicant or applicants the exclusive use of the said print, label or trade
mark throughout the Hawaiian Islands for the term of twenty years from the date thereof.

SECTION 5. This Act shall take effect from and after the date of its approval.

Approved this twenty-third day of June, A. D. 1888.

                                KALAKAUA REX.

BY THE KING:
   L. A. THURSTON,
     Minister of the Interior.

[B] Note.--It has been found in practice that three copies are necessary; one is filed with
the Application and Oath, one is attached to the Record, and one is attached to the certificate
when issued.

RULES OF PRACTICE IN THE PATENT OFFICE OF THE REPUBLIC OF HAWAII.

The following regulations, designed to be in strict accordance with the Laws of the Hawaiian
Islands, relating to the granting of Patents for inventions, and the registration of copyrights,
prints, labels and trade marks, are published for the guidance of all persons interested.

The observance of the appended forms in all cases to which they may be applicable is recommended
to inventors and attorneys.

                                C. B. RIPLEY,
                                 Commissioner of Patents.

APPROVED:
  J. A. KING,
    Minister of the Interior.

CORRESPONDENCE.

1--All business with the office should be transacted in writing. All action of the office will
be based exclusively on the written record.

2--All letters must be addressed to the Minister of the Interior. Now
came the turn of Rosaurus to be jealous and he was so violent and merciless against the small animal,
he had learned so little from the magnanimity of the lion, that he the new Joly little scratching
out once with a powerful blow of his paw an eye.

Accordingly Rosaurus was banished into the hall and the small and
Joly was the Schooßhund the constant companion of the princess.

Once they got two charming little birds, they were green and they were called the Lovebirds because
they were always very close to each other and the image of a good marriage . Charges They came from America,
where they are native. The princess was delighted at the small animals. - Rosaurus saw her one
day and seemed to think that it merely because of him had come so far, and he rushed her to the
farmer and said his claws into the Drathgitter to get them out, fortunately just Lisi came in
and raised a terrible cries. - Rosaurus was chased and saved the lives of young birds. The might
have been fear but be very large and beautiful green feathers were
flying in the cage around, and here and there was bleeding a place
where a sharp claw had scratched the skin.

After this iniquity Rosaurus fell completely from favor, and as a young Mademoiselle Gogo Teacher
made way, as she begged for a transfer because of ill health to retire took her Rosaurus to which
they had become accustomed to with in her apartment, where they him with great Used to love
and care. The Princess had her a big soft velvet cushion for this Boyfriend gift, it was Rosaurus
and was still a nice old boy.

He That really nothing to eat and purr as - and the spin of the wheel
Mile Gogo purring with him about the bet.

       
           
       Pressure of the printing press club in Leipzig.

  
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
    
  ERRATA
  
  The little Diana [unchanged: always later "Diane"]
  Princess wanted to know all these names
  nothing. [Original has excess "at the end] if they
  give us nothing, we take it. "[missing] Promises of biscuit and treat
    [Orig Pisquit] if we wanted
  to take it with us. "[missing] following report. "They [" never comes]
enjoy such good things should. "[missing] Are you still angry with
me that I'll broke his arm in my pocket. [Unchanged: error. for?]
"If you have loved me [missing] The petition, specification
and oath must be written in the English or the Hawaiian language.

15--No application for a patent will be placed upon the files for examination until all of
its parts except the model or specimen are received.

THE PETITION.

16--The petition is a communication duly signed by the applicant, and addressed to the Minister
of the Interior, stating the name and residence of the petitioner, and requesting the grant
of a patent for the invention therein designated by name, with a reference to the specification
for a full disclosure thereof.

THE SPECIFICATION. It must conclude with a specific and distinct claim or claims of the part,
improvement or combination which the applicant regards as his invention or discovery.

18--The following order of arrangement should be observed in framing the specifications:

First--Preamble, giving the name and residence of the applicant and the title of the invention;

Second--General statement of the object and nature of the invention;

Third--Brief description of the drawings, showing what each view represents;

Fourth--Detailed description explaining fully the alleged invention, and the manner of constructing,
practicing, operating and using it;

Fifth--Claim or claims;

Sixth--Signature of the inventor;

Seventh--Signature of two witnesses.

19--Where there are drawings the description will refer by figures to the different views,
and by letters or figures to the different parts.

20--The specification must be signed by the inventor or his attorney, and the signature must
be attested by two witnesses. Full names must be given, and all names, whether of applicants
or witnesses, must be legibly written.

21--All of the papers must be written in a fair, legible hand, on but one side of the paper,
otherwise the office may require them to be printed. All interlineations and erasures must
be clearly marked in marginal or foot notes, written on the same page. Legal cap paper, with
the lines numbered, is preferable, and a wide margin must be reserved upon the left hand side
of each page of the specification.

THE OATH.

22--The inventor must make oath that he does verily believe himself to be the original and
first inventor or discoverer of the art, machine, manufacture, composition or improvement for
which he solicits a patent. That the same has not been patented to himself or others with his
knowledge or consent in any foreign country, or if the same has been so patented, the details
of, name, country, date, number and term must be given; and that the same has not to his knowledge
been introduced into public use in the Hawaiian Islands for more than one year; that he does
not know or believe that the same was ever before known or used, and shall state of what country
he is a citizen, and his place of residence.

23--The oath may be made before any person within this Republic authorized by law to administer
oaths, or when the applicant resides in any foreign country, before any Minister, Charge d'Affaires,
Consul or Commercial Agent, holding commission under the Hawaiian Government, or before any
Notary Public in such foreign country, the oath being attested in all cases by the proper official
seal of the officer before whom oath is made.

When the oath is sworn before any official abroad, other than a Hawaiian Consul or Agent, a
certificate as to the authority of such official must be obtained from such Consul or Agent
under his official seal and annexed thereto.

DRAWINGS.

24--The applicant for a patent is required by law to furnish drawings of his invention where
the nature of the case admits of it.

25--The drawings must be signed by the inventor, or his attorney, and attested by two witnesses,
and must show every feature of the invention covered by claims.

26--The drawings to be in duplicate, one copy on heavy parchment, the other copy on tracing
cloth, the drawings to be made with india ink of best quality and with pen only, every line
and letter must be black. I even beginning to dream said you can
probably imagine. But it was train train for the same face, the listserv had studied the sofa Women
Lucrezia under glass and frame often enough.

And the ears? I asked.

The I could not see. The hair seemed for months not been cut to be tight around the head and hung
down to her shoulders. In the surprise must I have probably gerappelt
at the door.

Because suddenly he turned around completely and cried Is it you, Mrs. Beatrice - For thus said
the landlady.

Now I was once betrayed and decided I would rather reveal altogether. I called to him through
the keyhole, the woman was not, but a friend of the two words with he wished to speak. And I
called his name and saw that he was greatly alarmed and for a moment thinking about your seemed
that he should not deny. But what could the help if he was once discovered by a stranger? So he
closed the door for on, and I will never forget the strange look with which he looked at me, about
like Lazarus when he was resurrected from the dead. Sor Dear Carlo, I said what the hell did
you do? Why do you bury themselves alive in this miserable fishing village, while all Pisa is
on alert to your disappearance and your grieving widow day and night
no rest until she has, where he was me, luckily in the word, I would
have otherwise end up good Lucrezia verleumderischerweise described
as inconsolable.

What? he said. My widow? Know because my wife is not that I'm probably lifted?

Now, I told him, of course, without my own delicate relations with the loving Soul to reveal
how I found things in Pisa, he also confessed that I had in his Home lived and witnessed the grief of
the lonely was abandoned. But as I to talk to the two Reliquienflaeschchen came, he interrupted
me in violent excitement. Shocking! he cried and rumpled hair, so I now the existence of a not pinched
Pair of ears could ascertaining numerical. Oh, I've been cheated disgraceful! It gave me a
Assigned role in a farce that is to me of my life ridicule - Sun he shouted and stormed around
in his little room, and it was long before he so much reassured to
sit on the bed and me the context of this tragi-comic revealing history.

As

he rightly I looked like a family friend - and I thank God it was not in the most daring Meaning - it
looked absolutely nothing to hide or gloss over, but told me from the beginning, his love, marriage
and suffering. He had his wife on the Stage to know and so violently in love with its beauty,
as her singing abhorred. Because she had sung so very wrong incurable, that they tortured the
ears as well have, as they delighted the eye. He even confessed to me, his strong conviction to Tobia
is the poor Seresi only by the mind to come, that he was compelled had to sing a whole winter
to duets with her. Under such circumstances have He, Sor Carlo, at last not know what else
to do, than by them from the stage wegheiratete. But, unfortunately, have domestic happiness
and her housewife and mother duties verhaengnisvolle the talent can not suffocate. Add to this
her hobby for geraeuschvolle Pets, the inevitable cries of children, the noise on the street -
in short, his nerves at last she had suffered so much that was to compose no more thoughts. Now have
they did everything possible to please him. But his hearing was now already so over-stimulated,
that he had imagined, they sneeze wrong and even their shoes creaked a Viertelston too high. Finally
he decided to embark on a vacation trip to Naples, and here is the suffering will soon become milder,
especially as he in the quiet country house of a school friend, a doctor, quite undisturbed able to
pursue his favorite works. Moreover, he found finally down here a young poet who him a libretto
according to his wishes sealed. now only six months uninterrupted work alone, and he wanted to state a work
To bring this should make him an instant celebrity in Italy. But already came the impatient,
longing letters to his young wife. If he does not return, they'll go and leave everything,
house and children, in the lurch and their beloved Carlo. And they would be able to have been!
sighed the husband, for she could not live without me, and her jealousy was not the least of
my homely comforts .-- In this Not he asked his friend for advice, who also wished nothing more
lively than the fame and the creative happiness of his friend. You let me do it! I said that.
I promise you, that she should keep up to the end of your work in peace. Only you need me, however
vow to write the whole time neither of them, still up against any man leave, which could bring
your oral message from you to see. In addition, I will make it so, as the most beneficial for
all parts .-- This is the contract he was safe received, as he was quite satisfied with his work and
I already knew well, now that everything was well at home. The first months of winter he had a silent
house spent close to Amalfi, and here completed the sketch of his opera. His friend, the doctor
had furnished him with money and written every four weeks, women and children were well, and
greet him go. As far as he then was that the complete score written had to be what he is without an
instrument could well bring about, did he leave Amalfi and withdrawn after a short visit to Naples
to Portovenere, La Spezia where create more easily from an old piano was. Here he now peaceful
home in five months. Just one more week, so was also the finale of the last act orchestrated happy,
and Now he experienced to his horror that his friend abused his innocence again basest and have
put their money into a farce scene, making it as it just at the threshold of fame had arrived, without
mercy from all over Italy to make would have to laughter.

Keep it only, "I said while I had even bothered to suppress my laughter. There's nothing lost. Of
the two stray ears, your cynical friend have on the anatomy of any cut off a quiet man, will
know by now very few. Their grieving widow, she has shown only the next person. By the way - what is
to laugh as if a happy family father noisy children and pets take the flight to somewhere
in the silence to create an immortal work?

Course It is nigh time you get home, for your lovely wife is of course courted, as of old, Penelope,
and if you stay longer dead men, he said, and took startled me by the arm, you do not say as-is
not the slightest what your honor could get too close, I drove away quickly. In Pisa, nobody
can quite your wife Boese accuse, and they assigned me one of their superfluous military room, she
can before her Certain responsibility. I have a bride in Germany and give you my sacred insurance
me that nothing further was in Pisa as a love affair.

He looked at me with a searching look that convinced me that his old passion for this woman
was not yet quite extinguished. When I told him about but from my work the Schiefbau told, he
calmed down for me now because he gave a downright fool. I will believe you, "he said. But what
should I start now? Advise me! I was as I live a very impractical person and have only lived
for my art.

You know what? I said. The best thing would be, I go immediately back to Pisa and prepare Your wife
on your reappearance before. If you suddenly into the room unannounced, would arise could
the tender soul of the death of terror have, or at least to a nervous fever. You pack your opera,
however, and follow me to-morrow.

That seemed good because even the man who pretty headless and profound still on the Bette sat, the
most appropriate, and so we took a short leave of each other, and I paid my lunch and walked
down the narrow alley that is already pretty cool and dim was. Only now I could still break out in
laughter for me and me to the deep sense delight in this childish
game. the more I thought about it, the more I had to Human knowledge
of the Neapolitan let justice.

The fact that Mrs. Lucrezia not to move with milder agents would have been to waive their Carlo
ten months I was also rock solid. The funny thing about the whole farce was me but the foretaste
of Schadenfreude, which I thought to get in my room in Pisa, once again on a free Man and without
danger, "sin 'all' ore, all 'on bronze ore" in the shadow of the leaning tower for the "second
Lebensglueck" must adhere to my beautiful hostess.

But what happens? As I have already passed through the dilapidated gate and turn around the corner,
at the bottom of the landing place again raise my old skipper, I see a veiled Dame meet me,
who had just stepped off a boat and with my sight a incomprehensible cry does. I do not watch it
more because I always Pisa in the head have, and will breakneck speed past her. Suddenly she
takes me by the arm, suggests calls back the veil and with a tone
of moral indignation: Ha, traitor, you mean me to escape from here
- can my terror you think.

Lucrezia! I cried and further I could say anything because I thought in an instant how much their
position by this stroke of genius worse. What do you say to that? I was this inescapable Women traveled
after properly and made a gesture for me to land and water, alive and dead recapture. For heaven's
sake! I cried and pulled her in the first consternation in the dark archway, which will help
you develop one, Lucrezia? Do you know - O Ferdinando interrupted me with very lofty gesture,
I flee myself to you from the evil of man. His uncle is back from Florence. He's like mad and
has sworn to kill me, if the stranger who was behind his back slipped on me, not my honor
restorative, as befitting a galantuomo. The aunt has him in vain to pacify sought, he will
hear of nothing, he just always says that he run after you and satisfaction would require of
you or shoot you, like a robber and murderer. What should I do, poor me? I have gained with
many tears and entreaties a period of three days; an inner voice told me that I find you, and would
still prevent the worst. In the "Nettuno" I heard ye may be to La Spezia. There they had you go to
Portovenere . See And now, Ferdinand-You come right moment, I said. It saves me a way. For I
was just going to turn back and give you the message that your widowhood is over.

Really? let So it is good, so we hurriedly get back into the boat, she said. I knew It yes, you
would not be a stand-alone woman compromise so difficult if you do not meintet good and honest
with her.

Stop! I said. You know not all. The dead stand up again. Your late sitting upstairs in the inn,
and greet you can. He is fresh and healthy and in possession of his all ears, you will be treated
from now on, hopefully a bit more gently.

Now was the turn to petrify her.

While she was staring at me but like I her A tale from the Arabian Nights told, I lost no time,
but reported their exodus in all that I knew myself. And so you now see, I concluded that I it
really good and my honest with you, I will give you some advice,
as you all still bring all glorious back in order can.

You go now to turn into your blessed and told him that a vague rumor claimed he was hiding here
in Portovenere You've lured away from Pisa. The excellent man, of you in spite of some small
drawbacks to love still blindly seems you do not examine too sharp.

A few Lines that your uncle will be sent to the advance, even those in the mood right Biedermann
bring, and if your other shuns talk of the neighbors, it makes a small honeymoon plotted along
the Riviera, and returns home only when the gossips have become silent. To my Discretion of
course you can leave you. I will be eternally grateful to you that your I have not found unworthy
to help you substantiate a second Lebensglueck.

While I gave her this long sermon, it amused me greatly, the change of Gemuetsbewegungen observed on
her face. But the joking was the expression of ceremonial Cold snap, which they took to protect
against me, as it differs from the fear of all morose Consequences of this adventure by my hints
have freed him. Va bene, "she said. I wish Them a happy journey, my Lord - this she nodded graciously
as a total stranger to me my dismissal, pulled the veil back over her face and walked majestically,
as they just would have only asked a passer-by the way, up the street, the reunion with her
opposite Carlo. I have no doubt that the resurrected again have welcomed
tenderly and lied again to be most at ease.

O women! They are Never bigger, more terrible, inventive and charming, as if they have a bad Conscience!

This
is my adventure with the widow of Pisa, "my neighbor and ignited a fresh Cigar. What do you
think? Will not you make an amendment to it?

Keep me heaven! I cried. I would be nice "compromise" with it. What German readers believe me this
great story?

Maybe, he said. But because you were to blame. Why do you have spread the view the women beyond
the Alps (we were after only about the height of Mont Cenis come down and rolled to Savoy)
are from a very special fabric and the beautiful Gender in Germany fundamentally different?
Could this story not just as well in our dear fatherland have happened?

What?

I cried surprised you seriously believe said-except for the interlude with the two ears, He solemnly.
Because thank God, we live in well-policed ​​ratios, and the rogues
Maximum cut bags, and cables from.

But the widows concerned-this was the diligence in front of a station house, and a cup of coffee
interrupted our conversation, just as it threatened, to take a very
serious turn.



                      [L. S.]     (Signature of Notary.)
                                       (See Rule 23.)

INDEX.
                                               RULE. "Maybe I run
a little mouse in the way that asylum, as I "-. Rosaurus So thought and should again be disappointed.
A large owl had made their nest there and Rosaurus suddenly felt the crooked beak on its back. The
owls hate cats by nature, because they live on mice, like herself, which was still on top of that
boy who Rosaurus could be dangerous.

Startled, hastened away from the poor cat, the owl had given him a deep wound on the right Leg and
taught them hurt. The rain poured down and was Rosaurus open field, - he felt very unhappy.
What had his dreams of freedom more? he, who had a king of the animals want to be, what was
he now? A humbled wet kitten, without shelter, without food that could no longer find their way home.
Ah! He might well be very far from home, as he was tired! He stretched the wet Grass and his
pitiful meow all the mice had to scare when the rain was not considered would have done. - Last
fell silent again this Miau; Rosaurus was paralyzed and impotent consciousness and everything
was gone from him. Poor Rosaurus! that was a terrible ending his ambitious endeavor.

The night was over, the rain had stopped, the sun rose, the birds
chirping, the worms crawled out, the field mice extended their pointed
little nose out of the holes, Rosaurus but noted nothing about it.

As a little girl came along, it was Dot who to contribute something to the royal summer palace
had, they saw lying in the road and Rosaurus saw him at the tail bitten off, because of something
else they would not recognize him can, as ugly, dirty and zerzaußt he looked. She took the animal
froze in their Jacket and warmed it, and then they carried it to the little princess. Rosaurus
opened his eyes, it was as if he had had a bad dream, only the great hunger, he felt, "said him
that it was not a dream. But since even the warm milk with biscuit was, during he ate, the wound
was washed and wetted with cold cream, then wore it in Rosaurus his soft bed and covered him
with warm blankets. - He fell asleep. -

When he awoke, he felt stronger again, all yearning for freedom was gone, he felt nothing of
desires - to be a king of the forest and felt with great pleasure
the convenience of its Hofexistenz.

He decided, the same not give up voluntarily, and to make the uncertain Mouse Hunt does not go
higher than the sweets, which the Princess white hand extended to him every hour.

Conclusion.

Give it, Give them gifts of life And what is with your heart in love:
The heart wants to have his voice Before it proudly and calmly suggests.

Years

  passed. Rosaurus had become a great
  big cat, the cute jumps had He never,
  rarely, he allowed himself a walk
  on the roof, his parents were died and his siblings knew him not,
they thought he was too fine manners adopted, always wanted to present
something if he were among them, and know nothing about to tell, as
from the great lion, in which he spent three hours and he in respect
have received. - However, he was making a contemptuous look, if their
mice and Rat adventures in the basement told, he seemed the most important
events of their lives to to keep most petty and insignificant, and
at their most beautiful concerts, he fell asleep or purred so loudly
that the strongest Katzenbaß could hardly be heard.


                                                              FORM. PAGE. The arabesque is therefore against the music in
fact, a picture, but one whose subject we do not grab our words and Terms may arrange. The music
is the meaning and effect, but musical, it is a Language, we speak and understand but are unable
to translate. It is a profound knowledge of the fact that we speak in musical works of "thoughts"
and how in the speech because the practiced true verdict slightly different idea of ​​mere phrases.
We also recognize the sound of a sound group Completed by making it a "kit" . Call But we feel
as accurate as any logical term, where its meaning is over although the truth of both stands
quite incommensurable.

