"I should like to go somewhere--to some beautiful place--and draw. That would take a month--perhaps.
Then we can settle." After a pause, she added without hesitation--"And you?--what is going
to happen?"

"It depends--upon whether it's life at the Rectory--or death."

She was evidently startled, but said nothing, only gave him her beautiful eyes again, and her
unspoken sympathy.

Then an impulse which seemed invincible came upon him to be really frank with her--to tell
her more.

"It depends, also,--upon something else. But this I asked Geoffrey not to tell the others in
the drawing-room--just yet--and I ask you the same. Of course you may tell Mrs. Friend." She
saw his face work with emotion. "Helena, this woman that was my wife declares to me--that I
have a son living."

He saw the light of amazement that rushed into her face, and hurried on:--"But in the same
breath that she tells me that, she tells me the tragedy that goes with it." And hardly able
to command his voice, he repeated what had been told him.

"Of course everything must be enquired into--verified. I go to town to-morrow--with Ramsay.
Possibly I shall bring him back--perhaps to Ramsay's care, for the moment. Possibly, I shall
leave him with someone in town."

"Couldn't I help," she said, after a moment, "if I stayed?"

"No, no!" he said with repugnance, which was almost passion. "I couldn't lay such a burden
upon you, or any young creature. You must go and be happy, dear Helena--it is your duty to
be happy! And this home for a time will be a tragic one. Well, but now, where would you like
to go? Will you and Geoffrey and Mrs. Friend consult? I will leave any money you want in Geoffrey's
hands."

"You mean"--she said abruptly--"that I really ought to go at once--to-morrow."

"Wouldn't it be best? It troubles me to think of you here--under the shadow--of this thing."

"I see!--I see! All right. You are going to London to-morrow morning?" She had risen, and was
moving towards the door.

"Yes, I shall go to the Rectory first for news. And then on to the station."

She paused a moment.

"And if--if she--I don't know what to call her--if she lives?"

"Well, then--I must be free," he said, gravely; adding immediately--"She passed for fifteen
years after she left me as the wife of an Italian I used to know. It would be very quickly
arranged. I should provide for her--and keep my boy. But all that is uncertain."

"Yes, I understand." She held out her hand. "Cousin Philip--I am awfully sorry for you. I--I
realized--somehow--only after I'd come down here--that you must have had--things in your life--to
make you unhappy. And you've been so nice--so awfully nice to me! I just want to thank you--with
all my heart."

And before he could prevent her, she had seized his hands and kissed them. Then she rushed
to the door, turning to show him a face between tears and laughter.

"There!--I've paid you back!"

And with that she vanished.

Helena was going blindly through the hall, towards her own room, when Peter Dale emerged from
the shadows. He caught her as she passed.

"Let me have just a word, Helena! You know, everything will be broken up here. I only want
to say my mother would just adore to have you for the season. We'd all make it nice for you--we'd
be your slaves--just let me wire to Mater to-morrow morning."

"No, thank you, Peter. Please--please! don't stop me! I want to see Mrs. Friend."

"Helena, do think of it!" he implored.

"No, I can't. It's impossible!" she said, almost fiercely. "Let me go, Peter! Good-night!"

He stood, a picture of misery, at the foot of the stairs watching her run up. Then at the top
she turned, ran down a few steps again, kissed her hand to him, and vanished, the bright buckles
on her shoes flashing along the gallery overhead.

But in the further corner of the gallery she nearly ran into the arms of Geoffrey French, who
was waiting for her outside her room.

"Is it too late, Helena--for me to have just a few words in your sitting-room?"

He caught hold of her. The light just behind him showed him a tense and frowning Helena.

"Yes--it is much too late! I can't talk now."

"Only a few words?"

"No"--she panted--"no!--Geoffrey, I shall hate you if you don't let me go!"

It seemed to her that everybody was in league to stand between her and the one thing she craved
for--to be alone and in the dark.

She snatched her dress out of his grasp, and he fell back.

She slipped into her own room, and locked the door. He shook his head, and went slowly downstairs.
He found Peter pacing the hall, and they went out into the June dark together, a discomfited pair.

Meanwhile Mrs. Friend waited for Helena. She heard voices in the passage and the locking of
Helena's door. She was still weak from her illness, so it seemed wisest to get into bed. But
she had no hope or intention of sleep. She sat up in bed, with a shawl round her, certain that
Helena would come. She was in a ferment of pity and fear,--she scarcely knew why--fear for
the young creature she had come to love with all her heart; and she strained her ears to catch
the sound of an opening door.

But Helena did not come. Through her open window Lucy could hear steps along the terrace coming
and going--to and fro. Then they ceased; all sounds in the house ceased. The church clock in
the distance struck midnight, and a little owl close to the house shrieked and wailed like
a human thing, to the torment of Lucy's nerves. A little later she was aware of Buntingford
coming upstairs, and going to his room on the further side of the gallery.

Then, nothing. Deep silence--that seemed to flow through the house and all its rooms and passages
like a submerging flood.

Except!--What was that sound, in the room next to hers--in Helena's room?

Lucy Friend got up trembling, put on a dressing-gown, and laid an ear to the wall between her
and Helena. It was a thin wall, mostly indeed a panelled partition, belonging to an old bit
of the house, in which the building was curiously uneven in quality--sometimes inexplicably
strong, and sometimes mere lath and plaster, as though the persons, building or re-building,
had come to an end of their money and were scamping their work.

Lucy, from the other side of the panels, had often heard Helena singing while she dressed,
or chattering to the housemaid. She listened now in an anguish, her mind haunted alternately
by the recollection of the scene in the drawing-room, and the story told by Geoffrey French,
and by her rising dread and misgiving as to Helena's personal stake in it. She had observed
much during the preceding weeks. But her natural timidity and hesitancy had forbidden her so
far to draw hasty deductions. And now--perforce!--she drew them.

The sounds in the next room seemed to communicate their rhythm of pain to Lucy's own heart.
She could not bear it after a while. She noiselessly opened her own door, and went to Helena's.
To her scarcely audible knock there was no answer. After an interval she knocked again--a pause.
Then there were movements inside, and Helena's muffled voice through the door.

"Please, Lucy, go to sleep! I am all right."

"I can't sleep. Won't you let me in?"

Helena seemed to consider. But after an interval which seemed interminable to Lucy Friend,
the key was slowly turned and the door yielded.

Helena was standing inside, but there was so little light in the room that Lucy could only
see her dimly. The moon was full outside, but the curtains had been drawn across the open window,
and only a few faint rays came through. As Mrs. Friend entered Helena turned from her, and
groping her way back to the bed, threw herself upon it, face downwards. It was evidently the
attitude from which she had risen.

Lucy Friend followed her, trembling, and sat down beside her. Helena was still fully dressed,
except for her hair, which had escaped from combs and hairpins. As her eyes grew used to the
darkness, Lucy could see it lying, a dim mass on the white pillow, also a limp hand upturned.
She seized the hand and cherished it in hers.

"You are so cold, dear! Mayn't I cover you up and help you into bed?"

No answer. She found a light eiderdown that had been thrown aside, and covered the prone figure,
gently chafing the cold hands and feet. After what seemed a long time, Helena, who had been
quite still, said in a voice she had to stoop to hear:

"I suppose you heard me crying. Please, Lucy, go back to bed. I won't cry any more."

"Dear--mayn't I stay?"

"Well, then--you must come and lie beside me. I am a brute to keep you awake."

"Won't you undress?"

"Please let me be! I'll try and go to sleep."

Lucy slipped her own slight form under the wide eiderdown. There was a long silence, at the
end of which Helena said:

"I'm only--sorry--it's all come to an end--here."

But with the words the girl's self-control again failed her. A deep sob shook her from head
to foot. Lucy with the tears on her own cheeks, hung over her, soothing and murmuring to her
as a mother might have done. But the sob had no successor, and presently Helena said faintly--"Good-night,
Lucy. I'm warm now. I'm going to sleep."

Lucy listened for the first long breaths of sleep, and seemed to hear them, just as the dawn
was showing itself, and the dawn-wind was pushing at the curtains. But she herself did not
sleep. This young creature lying beside her, with her full passionate life, seemed to have
absolutely absorbed her own. She felt and saw with Helena. Through the night, visions came
and went--of "Cousin Philip,"--the handsome, melancholy, courteous man, and of all his winning
ways with the girl under his care, when once she had dropped her first foolish quarrel with
him, and made it possible for him to show without reserve the natural sweetness and chivalry
of his character. Buntingford and Helena riding, their well-matched figures disappearing under
the trees, the sun glancing from the glossy coats of their horses; Helena, drawing in some
nook of the park, her face flushed with the effort to satisfy her teacher, and Buntingford
bending over her; or again, Helena dancing, in pale green and apple-blossom, while Buntingford
leaned against the wall, watching her with folded arms, and eyes that smiled over her conquests.

It all grew clear to Lucy--Helena's gradual capture, and the innocence, the unconsciousness,
of her captor. Her own shrewdness, nevertheless, put the same question as Buntingford's conscience.
Could he ever have been quite sure of his freedom? Yet he had taken the risks of a free man.
But she could not, she did not blame him. She could only ask herself the breathless question
that French had already asked:

"How far has it gone with her? How deep is the wound?"

CHAPTER XIII

Cynthia and Georgina Welwyn were dining at Beechmark on the eventful evening. They took their
departure immediately after the scene in the drawing-room when Geoffrey French, at his cousin's
wish, gathered Buntingford's guests together, and revealed the identity of the woman in the
wood. In the hurried conversation that followed, Cynthia scarcely joined, and she was more
than ready when Georgina proposed to go. Julian Horne found them their wraps, and saw them
off. It was a beautiful night, and they were to walk home through the park.

"Shall I bring you any news there is to-morrow?" said Horne from the doorstep--"Geoffrey has
asked me to stay till the evening. Everybody else of course is going early. It will be some
time, won't it,"--he lowered his voice--"before we shall see the bearing of all this?"

Cynthia assented, rather coldly; and when she and her sister were walking through the moonlit
path leading to the cottage, her silence was still marked, whereas Georgina in her grim way
was excited and eager to talk.

The truth was that Cynthia was not only agitated by the news of the evening. She was hurt--bitterly
hurt. Could not Buntingford have spared her a word in private? She was his kinswoman, his old
and particular friend, neglectful as he had shown himself during the war. Had he not only a
few weeks before come to ask her help with the trouble-some girl whose charge he had assumed?
She had been no good, she knew. Helena had not been ready to make friends; and Cynthia's correctness
had always been repelled by the reckless note in Helena. Yet she had done her best on that
and other occasions and she had been rewarded by being treated in this most critical, most
agitated moment like any other of Buntingford's week-end guests. Not a special message even--just
the news that everybody might now know, and--Julian Horne to see them off! Yet Helena had been
sent for at once. Helena had been closeted with Philip for half an hour. No doubt he had a
special responsibility towards her. But what use could she possibly be? Whereas Cynthia felt
herself the practical, experienced woman, able to give an old friend any help he might want
in a grave emergency.

"Of course we must all hope she will die--and die quickly!" said Lady Georgina, with energy,
after some remarks to which Cynthia paid small attention. "It would be the only sensible course
for Providence--after making such a terrible mistake."

"Is there any idea of her dying?" Cynthia looked down upon her sister with astonishment. "Geoffrey
didn't say so."

"He said she was 'very ill,' and from her conduct she must be crazy. So there's hope."

"You mean, for Philip?"

"For the world in general," said Georgina, cautiously, with an unnoticed glance at her companion.
"But of course Philip has only himself to blame. Why did he marry such a woman?"

"She may have been very beautiful--or charming--you don't know."

Lady Georgina shrugged her shoulders.

"Well, of course there must have been something to bait the hook! But when a man marries out
of his own class, unless the woman dies, the man goes to pieces."

"Philip has not gone to pieces!" cried Cynthia indignantly.

"Because she removed herself. For practical purposes that was as good as dying. He has much
to be grateful for. Suppose she had come home with him! She would have ruined him socially
and morally."

"And if she doesn't die," said Cynthia slowly, "what will Philip do then?"

"Ship her off to America, as she asks him, and prove a few little facts in the divorce court--simple
enough! It oughtn't to take him much more than six months to get free--which he never has been
yet!" added Georgina, with particular emphasis.

"It's a mercy, my dear, that you didn't just happen to be Lady Buntingford!"

"As if I had ever expected to be!" said Cynthia, much nettled.

"Well, you would, and you wouldn't have been!" said Georgina obstinately. "It's very complicated.
You would have had to be married again--after the divorce."

"I don't know why you are so unkind, Georgie!" There was a little quaver in Cynthia's voice.
"Philip's a very old friend of mine, and I'm very sorry and troubled about him. Why do you
smirch it all with these horrid remarks?"

"I won't make any more, if you don't like them," said Georgina, unabashed--"except just to
say this, Cynthia--for the first time I begin to believe in your chance. There was always something
not cleared up about Philip, and it might have turned out to be something past mending. Now
it is cleared up; and it's bad--but it might have been worse. However--we'll change the subject.
What about that handsome young woman, Helena?"

"Now, if you'd chanced to say it was a mercy she didn't happen to be Lady Buntingford, there'd
have been some sense in it!" Cynthia's tone betrayed the soreness within.

Lady Georgina laughed, or rather chuckled.

"I know Philip a great deal better than you do, my dear, though he is your friend. He has made
himself, I suspect, as usual, much too nice to that child; and he may think himself lucky if
he hasn't broken her heart. He isn't a flirt--I agree. But he produces the same effect--without
meaning it. Without meaning anything indeed--except to be good and kind to a young thing. The
men with Philip's manners and Philip's charm--thank goodness, there aren't many of them!--have
an abominable responsibility. The poor moth flops into the candle before she knows where she
is. But as to marrying her--it has never entered his head for a moment, and never would."

"And why shouldn't it, please?"

"Because she is much too young for him--and Philip is a tired man. Haven't you seen that, Cynthy?
Before you knew him, Philip had exhausted his emotions--that's my reading of him. I don't for
a moment believe his wife was the only one, if what Geoffrey said of her, and what one guesses,
is true. She would never have contented him. And now it's done. If he ever marries now, it
will be for peace--not passion. As I said before, Cynthy--and I mean no offence--your chances
are better than they were."

Cynthia winced and protested again, but all the same she was secretly soothed by her odd sister's
point of view. They began to discuss the situation at the Rectory,--how Alice Alcott, their
old friend, with her small domestic resources, could possibly cope with it, if a long illness
developed.

"Either the woman will die, or she will be divorced," said Georgina trenchantly. "And as soon
as they know she isn't going to die, what on earth will they do with her?"

As she spoke they were passing along the foot of the Rectory garden. The Rectory stood really
on the edge of the park, where it bordered on the highroad; and their own cottage was only
a hundred yards beyond. There were two figures walking up and down in the garden. The Welwyns
identified them at once as the Rector and his sister.

Cynthia stopped.

"I shall go and ask Alice if we can do anything for her."

She made for the garden gate that opened on the park and called softly. The two dim figures
turned and came towards her. It was soon conveyed to the Alcotts that the Welwyns shared their
knowledge, and a conversation followed, almost in whispers under a group of lilacs that flung
round them the scents of the unspoilt summer. Alice Alcott, to get a breath of air, had left
her patient in the charge of their old housemaid, for a quarter of an hour, but must go back
at once and would sit up all night. A nurse was coming on the morrow.

Then, while Georgina employed her rasping tongue on Mr. Alcott, Cynthia and the Rector's sister
conferred in low tones about various urgent matters--furniture for the nurse's room, sheets,
pillows, and the rest. The Alcotts were very poor, and the Rectory had no reserves.

"Of course, we could send for everything to Beechmark," murmured Miss Alcott.

"Why should you? It is so much further. We will send in everything you want. What are we to
call this--this person?" said Cynthia.

"Madame Melegrani. It is the name she has passed by for years."

"You say she is holding her own?"

"Just--with strychnine and brandy. But the heart is very weak. She told Dr. Ramsay she had
an attack of flu last week--temperature up to 104. But she wouldn't give in to it--never even
went to bed. Then came the excitement of travelling down here and the night in the park. This
is the result. It makes me nervous to think that we shan't have Dr. Ramsay to-morrow. His partner
is not quite the same thing. But he is going to London with Lord Buntingford."

"Buntingford--going to London?" said Cynthia in amazement.

Miss Alcott started. She remembered suddenly that her brother had told her that no mention
was to be made, for the present, of the visit to London. In her fatigue and suppressed excitement
she had forgotten. She could only retrieve her indiscretion--since white lies were not practised
at the Rectory--by a hurried change of subject and by reminding her brother it was time for
them to go back to the house. They accordingly disappeared.

"What is Buntingford going to London for?" said Georgina as they neared their own door.

Cynthia could not imagine--especially when the state of the Rectory patient was considered.
"If she is as bad as the Alcotts say, they will probably want to-morrow to get a deposition
from her of some kind," remarked Georgina, facing the facts as usual. Cynthia acquiesced. But
she was not thinking of the unhappy stranger who lay, probably dying, under the Alcotts' roof.
She was suffering from a fresh personal stab. For, clearly, Geoffrey French had not told all
there was to be known; there was some further mystery. And even the Alcotts knew more than
she. Affection and pride were both wounded anew.

But with the morning came consolation. Her maid, when she called her, brought in the letters
as usual. Among them, one in a large familiar hand. She opened it eagerly, and it ran:--

"Saturday night, 11 p.m.

"MY DEAR CYNTHIA:--I was so sorry to find when I went to the drawing-room just now that you
had gone home. I wanted if possible to walk part of the way with you, and to tell you a few
things myself. For you are one of my oldest friends, and I greatly value your sympathy and
counsel. But the confusion and bewilderment of the last few hours have been such--you will
understand!

"To-morrow we shall hardly meet--for I am going to London on a strange errand! Anna--the woman
that was my wife--tells me that six months after she left me, a son was born to me, whose existence
she has till now concealed from me. I have no reason to doubt her word, but of course for everybody's
sake I must verify her statement as far as I can. My son--a lad of fifteen--is now in London,
and so is the French bonne--Zélie Ronchicourt--who originally lived with us in Paris, and was
with Anna at the time of her confinement. You will feel for me when you know that he is apparently
deaf and dumb. At any rate he has never spoken, and the brain makes no response. Anna speaks
of an injury at birth. There might possibly be an operation. But of all this I shall know more
presently. The boy, of course, is mine henceforth--whatever happens.

"With what mingled feelings I set out to-morrow, you can imagine. I feel no bitterness towards
the unhappy soul who has come back so suddenly into my life. Except so far as the boy is concerned--(that
I feel cruelly!)--I have not much right--For I was not blameless towards her in the old days.
She had reasons--though not of the ordinary kind--for the frantic jealousy which carried her
away from me. I shall do all I can for her; but if she gets through this illness, there will
be a divorce in proper form.

"For me, in any case, it is the end of years of miserable uncertainty--of a semi-deception
I could not escape--and of a moral loneliness I cannot describe. I must have often puzzled
you and many others of my friends. Well, you have the key now. I can and will speak freely
when we meet again.

"According to present plans, I bring the boy back to-morrow. Ramsay is to find me a specially
trained nurse and will keep him under his own observation for a time. We may also have a specialist
down at once.

"I shall of course hurry back as soon as I can--Anna's state is critical--

"Yours ever effectionately,

"BUNTINGFORD."

"P.S.--I don't know much about the domestic conditions in the Ramsays' house. Ramsay I have
every confidence in. He has always seemed to me a very clever and a very nice fellow. And I
imagine Mrs. Ramsay is a competent woman."

"She isn't!" said Cynthia, suddenly springing up in bed. "She is an incompetent goose! As for
looking after that poor child and his nurse--properly--she couldn't!"

Quite another plan shaped itself in her mind. But she did not as yet communicate it to Georgina.

After breakfast she loaded her little pony carriage with all the invalid necessaries she had
promised Miss Alcott, and drove them over to the Rectory. Alcott saw her arrival from his study,
and came out, his finger on his lip, to meet her.

"Many, many thanks," he said, looking at what she had brought. "It is awfully good of you.
I will take them in--but I ask myself--will she ever live through the day? Lord Buntingford
and Ramsay hurried off by the first train this morning. She has enquired for the boy, and they
will bring him back as soon as they can. She gives herself no chance! She is so weak--but her
will is terribly strong! We can't get her to obey the doctor's orders. Of course, it is partly
the restlessness of the condition."

Cynthia's eyes travelled to the upper window above the study. Buntingford's wife lay there!
It seemed to her that the little room held all the secrets of Buntingford's past. The dying
woman knew them, and she alone. A new jealousy entered into Cynthia--a despairing sense of
the irrevocable. Helena was forgotten.

At noon Julian Horne arrived, bringing a book that Cynthia had lent him. He stayed to gossip
about the break-up of the party.

"Everybody has cleared out except myself and Geoffrey. Miss Helena and her chaperon went this
morning before lunch. Buntingford of course had gone before they came down. French tells me
they have gone to a little inn in Wales he recommended. Miss Helena said she wanted something
to draw, and a quiet place. I must say she looked pretty knocked up!--I suppose by the dance?"

His sharp greenish eyes perused Cynthia's countenance. She made no reply. His remark did not
interest a preoccupied woman. Yet she did not fail to remember, with a curious pleasure, that
there was no mention of Helena in Buntingford's letter.

Between five and six that afternoon a party of four descended at a station some fifteen miles
from Beechmark, where Buntingford was not very likely to be recognized. It consisted of Buntingford,
the doctor, a wrinkled French bonne, in a black stuff dress, and black bonnet, and a frail
little boy whom a spectator would have guessed to be eleven or twelve years old. Buntingford
carried him, and the whole party passed rapidly to a motor standing outside. Then through a
rainy evening they sped on at a great pace towards the Beechmark park and village. The boy
sat next to Buntingford who had his arm round him. But he was never still. He had a perpetual
restless motion of the head and the emaciated right hand, as though something oppressed the
head, and he were trying to brush it away. His eyes wandered round the faces in the car,--from
his father to the doctor, from the doctor to the Frenchwoman. But there was no comprehension
in them. He saw and did not see. Buntingford hung over him, alive to his every movement, absorbed
indeed in his son. The boy's paternity was stamped upon him. He had Buntingford's hair and
brow; every line and trait in those noticeable eyes of his father seemed to be reproduced in
him; and there were small characteristics in the hands which made them a copy in miniature
of his father's. No one seeing him could have doubted his mother's story; and Buntingford had
been able to verify it in all essential particulars by the evidence of the old bonne, who had
lived with Anna in Paris before her flight, and had been present at the child's birth. The
old woman was very taciturn, and apparently hostile to Buntingford, whom she perfectly remembered;
but she had told enough.

The June evening was in full beauty when the car drew up at the Rectory. Alcott and Dr. Ramsay's
partner received them. The patient they reported had insisted on being lifted to a chair, and
was feverishly expecting them.

Buntingford carried the boy upstairs, the bonne following. The doctors remained on the landing,
within call. At sight of her mistress, Zélie's rugged face expressed her dismay. She hurried
up to her, dropped on her knees beside her, and spoke to her in agitated French. Anna Melegrani
turned her white face and clouded eyes upon her for a moment; but made no response. She looked
past her indeed to where Buntingford stood with the boy, and made a faint gesture that seemed
to summon him.

He put him down on his feet beside her. The pathetic little creature was wearing a shabby velveteen
suit, with knickerbockers, which bagged about his thin frame. The legs like white sticks appearing
below the knickerbockers, the blue-veined hollows of the temples, and the tiny hands--together
with the quiet wandering look--made so pitiable an impression that Miss Alcott standing behind
the sick woman could not keep back the tears. The boy himself was a centre of calm in the agitated
room, except for the constant movement of the head. He seemed to perceive something familiar
in his mother's face, but when she put out a feeble hand to him, and tried to kiss him, he
began to whimper. Her expression changed at once; with what strength she had she pushed him
away. "Il est afreux!" she said sombrely, closing her eyes.

Buntingford lifted him up, and carried him to Zélie, who was in a neighbouring room. She had
brought with her some of the coloured bricks, and "nests" of Japanese boxes which generally
amused him. He was soon sitting on the floor, aimlessly shuffling the bricks, and apparently
happy. As his father was returning to the sickroom a note was put into his hand by the Rector.
It contained these few words--"Don't make final arrangements with the Ramsays till you have
seen me. Think I could propose something you would like better. Shall be here all the evening.
Yours affectionately--Cynthia."

He had just thrust it into his pocket, when the Rector drew him aside at the head of the stairs,
while the two doctors were with the patient.

"I don't want to interfere with any of your arrangements," whispered the Rector, "but I think
perhaps I ought to tell you that Mrs. Ramsay is no great housewife. She is a queer little flighty
thing. She spends her time in trying to write plays and bothering managers. There's no harm
in her, and he's very fond of her. But it is an untidy, dirty little house! And nothing ever
happens at the right time. My sister said I must warn you. She's had it on her mind--as she's
had a good deal of experience of Mrs. Ramsay. And I believe Lady Cynthia has another plan."

Buntingford thanked him, remembering opportunely that when he had proposed to Ramsay to take
the boy into his house, the doctor had accepted with a certain hesitation, which had puzzled
him. "I will go over and see my cousin when I can be spared."

But a sudden call from the sickroom startled them both. Buntingford hurried forward.

When Buntingford entered he found the patient lying in a deep old-fashioned chair propped up
by pillows. She had been supplied with the simplest of night-gear by Miss Alcott, and was wearing
besides a blue cotton overall or wrapper in which the Rector's sister was often accustomed
to do her morning's work. There was a marked incongruity between the commonness of the dress,
and a certain cosmopolitan stamp, a touch of the grand air, which was evident in its wearer.
The face, even in its mortal pallor and distress, was remarkable both for its intellect and
its force. Buntingford stood a few paces from her, his sad eyes meeting hers. She motioned to him.

"Send them all away."

The doctors went, with certain instructions to Buntingford, one of them remaining in the room
below. Buntingford came to sit close by her.

"They say I shall kill myself if I talk," she said in her gasping whisper. "It doesn't matter.
I must talk! So--you don't doubt the boy?" Her large black eyes fixed him intently.

"No. I have no doubts--that he is my son. But his condition is very piteous. I have asked a
specialist to come down."

There was a gleam of scorn in her expression.

"That'll do no good. I suppose--you think--we neglected the boy. Niente. We did the best we
could. He was under a splendid man--in Naples--as good as any one here. He told me nothing
could be done--and nothing can be done."

Buntingford had the terrible impression that there was a certain triumph in the faint tone.
He said nothing, and presently the whisper began again.

"I keep seeing those people dancing--and hearing the band. I dropped a little bag--did anybody
find it?"

"Yes, I have it here." He drew it out of his pocket, and put it in her hand, which feebly grasped
it.

"Rocca gave it to me at Florence once, I am very fond of it. I suppose you wonder that--I loved
him?"

There was a strange and tragic contrast between the woman's weakness, and her bitter provocative
spirit; just as there was between the picturesque strength of Buntingford--a man in his prime--and
the humble, deprecating gentleness of his present voice and manner.

"No," he answered. "I am glad--if it made you happy."

"Happy!" She opened her eyes again. "Who's ever happy? We were never happy!"

"Yes--at the beginning," he said, with a certain firmness. "Why take that away?"

She made a protesting movement.

"No--never! I was always--afraid. Afraid you'd get tired of me. I was only happy--working--and
when they hung my picture--in the Salon--you remember?"

"I remember it well."

"But I was always jealous--of you. You drew better--than I did. That made me miserable."

After a long pause, during which he gave her some of the prepared stimulant Ramsay had left
ready, she spoke again, with rather more vigour.

"Do you remember--that Artists' Fête--in the Bois--when I went as Primavera--Botticelli's Primavera?"

"Perfectly."

"I was as handsome then--as that girl you were rowing. And now--But I don't want to die!"--she
said with sudden anguish--"Why should I die? I was quite well a fortnight ago. Why does that
doctor frighten me so?" She tried to sit more erect, panting for breath. He did his best to
soothe her, to induce her to go back to bed. But she resisted with all her remaining strength;
instead, she drew him down to her.

"Tell me!--confess to me!"--she said hoarsely--"Madame de Chaville was your mistress!"

"Never! Calm yourself, poor Anna! I swear to you. Won't you believe me?"

She trembled violently. "If I left you--for nothing--"

She closed her eyes, and tears ran down her cheeks.

He bent over her--"Won't you rest now--and let them take you back to bed? You mustn't talk
like this any more. You will kill yourself."

He left her in Ramsay's charge, and went first to find Alcott, begging him to pray with her.
Then he wandered out blindly, into the summer evening. It was clear to him that she had only
a few more hours--or at most--days to live. In his overpowering emotion--a breaking up of the
great deeps of thought and feeling--he found his way into the shelter of one of the beechwoods
that girdled the park, and sat there in a kind of moral stupor, till he had somehow mastered
himself. The "old unhappy far-off things" were terribly with him; the failures and faults of
his own distant life, far more than those of the dying woman. The only thought--the only interest--which
finally gave him fresh strength--was the recollection of his boy.

Cynthia!--her letter--what was it she wanted to say to him? He got up, and resolutely turned
his steps towards the cottage.

Cynthia was waiting for him. She brought him into the little drawing-room where a lamp had
been lighted, and a tray of food was waiting of which she persuaded him to eat some mouthfuls.
But when he questioned her as to the meaning of her letter, she evaded answering for a little
while, till he had eaten something and drunk a glass of wine. Then she stretched out a hand
to him, with a quiet smile.

"Come and see what I have been doing upstairs. It will be dreadful if you don't approve!"

He followed her in surprise, and she led him upstairs through the spotless passages of the
cottage, bright with books and engravings, where never a thing was out of place, to a room
with a flowery paper and bright curtains, looking on the park.

"I had it all got ready in a couple of hours. We have so much room--and it is such a pleasure--"
she said, in half apology. "Nobody ever gets any meals at the Ramsays'--and they can't keep
any servants. Of course you'll change it, if you don't like it. But Dr. Ramsay himself thought
it the best plan. You see we are only a stone's throw from him. He can run in constantly. He
really seemed relieved!"

And there in a white bed, with the newly arrived special nurse--kind-faced and competent--beside
him, lay his recovered son, deeply and pathetically asleep. For in his sleep the piteous head
movement had ceased, and he might have passed for a very delicate child of twelve, who would
soon wake like other children to a new summer day.

Into Buntingford's strained consciousness there fell a drop of balm as he sat beside him, listening
to the quiet breathing, and comforted by the mere peace of the slight form.

He looked up at Cynthia and thanked her; and Cynthia's heart sang for joy.

CHAPTER XIV

The Alcotts' unexpected guest lingered another forty-eight hours under their roof,--making
a hopeless fight for life. But the influenza poison, recklessly defied from the beginning,
had laid too deadly a grip on an already weakened heart. And the excitement of the means she
had taken to inform herself as to the conditions of Buntingford's life and surroundings, before
breaking in upon them, together with the exhaustion of her night wandering, had finally destroyed
her chance of recovery. Buntingford saw her whenever the doctors allowed. She claimed his presence
indeed, and would not be denied. But she talked little more; and in her latest hours it seemed
to those beside her both that the desire to live had passed, and that Buntingford's attitude
towards her had, in the end, both melted and upheld her. On the second night after her arrival,
towards dawn she sent for him. She then could not speak. But her right hand made a last motion
towards his. He held it, till Ramsay who had his fingers on the pulse of the left, looked up
with that quiet gesture which told that all was over. Then he himself closed her eyes, and
stooping, he kissed her brow--

"Pardonnons--nous! Adieu!" he said, under his breath, in the language familiar to their student
youth together. Then he went straight out of the room, and through the dewy park, and misty
woods already vocal with the awakening birds; he walked back to Beechmark, and for some hours
shut himself into his library, where no one disturbed him.

When he emerged it was with the air of a man turning to a new chapter in life. Geoffrey French
was still with him. Otherwise the big house was empty and seemed specially to miss the sounds
of Helena's voice, and tripping feet. Buntingford enquired about her at once, and Geoffrey
was able to produce a letter from Mrs. Friend describing the little Welsh Inn, near the pass
of Aberglasslyn, where they had settled themselves; the delicious river, shrunken however by
the long drought, which ran past their windows, and the many virtues--qualified by too many
children--of the primitive Welsh pair who ran the inn.

