459. XIII. That immoderate and inordinate lust cannot be entirely checked by those who have
a strong passion for the sex, is what reason sees and experience proves: with a view therefore
that such lust may be restrained, in the case of one whose passions are thus violent, and who
for several reasons cannot precipitately enter into marriage, and that it may be rendered somewhat
moderate and ordinate, there seems to be no other refuge, and as it were asylum, than the keeping
of a woman, who in French is called maitresse. It is well known that in kingdoms, where certain
forms and orders are to be observed, matrimonial engagements cannot be contracted by many till
the season of youth is past; for duties are first to be performed, and property to be acquired
for the support of a house and family, and then first a suitable wife is to be courted; and
yet in the previous season of youth few are able to keep the springing fountain of manliness
closed, and reserved for a wife: it is better indeed that it should be reserved; but if this
cannot be done on account of the unbridled power of lust, a question occurs, whether there
may not be an intermediate means, by which conjugial love may be prevented from perishing in
the mean time. That keeping a mistress is such a means appears reasonable from the following
considerations: I. That by this means promiscuous inordinate fornications are restrained and
limited, and thus a less disorderly state is induced, which more resembles conjugial life.
II. That the ardor of venereal propensities, which in the beginning is boiling hot, and as
it were burning, is appeased and mitigated; and thereby the lascivious passion for the sex,
which is filthy, is tempered by somewhat analogous to marriage. III. By this means too the
strength is not cast away, neither are weaknesses contracted, as by vague and unlimited amours.
IV. By this means also disease of the body and insanity of mind are avoided. V. In like manner
by this means adulteries, which are whoredoms with wives, and debaucheries, which are violations
of maidens, are guarded against; to say nothing of such criminal acts as are not to be named;
for a stripling does not think that adulteries and debaucheries are different from fornications;
thus he conceives that the one is the same with the other; nor is he able from reason to resist
the enticements of some of the sex, who are proficients in meretricious arts: but in keeping
a mistress, which is a more ordinate and safer fornication, he can learn and see the above
distinctions. VI. By keeping a mistress, also no entrance is afforded to the four kinds of
lusts, which are in the highest degree destructive of conjugial love,--the lust of defloration,
the lust of varieties, the lust of violation, and the lust of seducing innocences, which are
treated of in the following pages. These observations, however, are not intended for those
who can check the tide of lust; nor for those who can enter into marriage during the season
of youth, and offer and impart to their wives the first fruits of their manliness.

460. XIV. At what time and with what persons keeping a mistress is preferable to vague amours,
has been pointed out just above. I. The reason why only one mistress is to be kept, is, because
if more than one be kept, a polygamical principle gains influence, which induces in a man a
merely natural state, and thrusts him down into a sensual state, so much so that he cannot
be elevated into a spiritual state, in which conjugial love must be; see n. 338, 339. II. The
reason why this mistress must not be a maiden, is because conjugial love with women acts in
unity with their virginity, and hence constitutes the chastity, purity, and sanctity of that
love; wherefore when a woman makes an engagement and allotment of her virginity to any man,
it is the same thing as giving him a certificate that she will love him to eternity: on this
account a maiden cannot, from any rational consent, barter away her virginity, unless when
entering into the conjugial covenant: it is also the crown of her honor: wherefore to seize
it without a covenant of marriage, and afterwards to discard her, is to make a courtezan of
a maiden, who might have been a bride or a chaste wife, or to defraud some man; and each of
these is hurtful. Therefore whoever takes a maiden and unites her to himself as a mistress,
may indeed dwell with her, and thereby initiate her into the friendship of love, but still
with a constant intention, if he does not play the whoremaster, that she shall be or become
his wife. III. That the kept mistress must not be a married woman, because this is adultery,
is evident. IV. The reason why the love of a mistress is to be kept separate from conjugial
love, is because those loves are distinct, and therefore ought not to be mixed together: for
the love of a mistress is an unchaste, natural, and external love; whereas the love of marriage
is chaste, spiritual, and internal. The love of a mistress keeps the souls of two persons distinct,
and unites only the sensual principles of the body; but the love of marriage unites souls,
and from their union conjoins also the sensual principles of the body, until from two they
become as one, which is one flesh. V. The love of a mistress enters only into the understanding
and the things which depend on it; but the love of marriage enters also into the will and the
things which depend on it, consequently into every thing appertaining to man (homo); wherefore
if the love of a mistress becomes the love of marriage, a man cannot retract from any principle
of right, and without violating the conjugial union; and if he retracts and marries another
woman, conjugial love perishes in consequence of the breach thereof. It is to be observed,
that the love of a mistress is kept separate from conjugial love by this condition, that no
engagement of marriage be made with the mistress, and that she be not induced to form any such
expectation. Nevertheless it is far better that the torch of the love of the sex be first lighted
with a wife.

       *       *       *       *       *

461. To the above I shall add the following MEMORABLE RELATION. I was once conversing with
a novitiate spirit who, during his abode in the world, had meditated much about heaven and
hell. (Novitiate spirits are men newly deceased, who are called spirits, because they are then
spiritual men.) As soon as he entered into the spiritual world he began to meditate in like
manner about heaven and hell, and seemed to himself, when meditating about heaven, to be in
joy, and when about hell, in sorrow. When he observed that he was in the spiritual world, he
immediately asked where heaven and hell were, and also their nature and quality? And he was
answered, "Heaven is above your head, and hell beneath your feet; for you are now in the world
of spirits, which is immediate between heaven and hell; but what are their nature and quality
we cannot describe in a few words." At that instant, as he was very desirous of knowing, he
fell upon his knees, and prayed devoutly to God that he might be instructed; and lo! an angel
appeared at his right hand, and having raised him, said, "You have prayed to be instructed
concerning heaven and hell; INQUIRE AND LEARN WHAT DELIGHT IS, AND YOU WILL KNOW;" and having
said this, the angel was taken up. Then the novitiate spirit said within himself, "What does
this mean, Inquire and learn what delight is, and you will know the nature and quality of heaven
and hell?" And leaving that place, he wandered about, and accosting those he met, said, "Tell
me, if you please, what delight is?" Some said, "What a strange question! Who does not know
what delight is? Is it not joy and gladness? Wherefore delight is delight; one delight is like
another; we know no distinction." Others said, that delight was the laughter of the mind; for
when the mind laughs, the countenance is cheerful, the discourse is jocular, the behaviour
sportive, and the whole man is in delight. But some said, "Delight consists in nothing but
feasting, and delicate eating and drinking, and in getting intoxicated with generous wine,
and then in conversing on various subjects, especially on the sports of Venus and Cupid." On
hearing these relations, the novitiate spirit being indignant, said to himself; "These are
the answers of clowns, and not of well-bred men: these delights are neither heaven nor hell;
I wish I could meet with the wise." He then took his leave of them, and inquired where he might
find the wise? At that instant he was seen by a certain angelic spirit, who said, "I perceive
that you have a strong desire to know what is the universal of heaven and of hell; and since
this is DELIGHT, I will conduct you up a hill, where there is every day an assembly of those
who scrutinize effects, of those who investigate causes, and of those who explore ends. There
are three companies; those who scrutinize effects are called spirits of knowledges, and abstractedly
knowledges; those who investigate causes are called spirits of intelligence, and abstractedly
intelligences; and those who explore ends are called spirits of wisdom, and abstractedly wisdoms.
Directly above them in heaven are angels, who from ends see causes, and from causes effects;
from these angels those three companies are enlightened." The angelic spirit then taking the
novitiate spirit by the hand, led him up the hill to the company which consisted of those who
explore ends, and are called wisdoms. To these the novitiate spirit said, "Pardon me for having
ascended to you: the reason is, because from my childhood I have meditated about heaven and
hell, and lately came into this world, where I was told by some who accompanied me, that here
heaven was above my head, and hell beneath my feet; but they did not tell me the nature and
quality of either; wherefore, becoming anxious from my thoughts being constantly employed on
the subject, I prayed to God; and instantly an angel presented itself, and said, 'Inquire and
learn what delight is, and you will know.' I have inquired, but hitherto in vain: I request
therefore that you will teach me, if you please, what delight is." To this the wisdoms replied,
"Delight is the all of life to all in heaven and all in hell: those in delight have the delight
of good and truth, but those in hell have the delight of what is evil and false; for all delight
is of love, and love is the esse of a man's life; therefore as a man is a man according to
the quality of his love, so also is he according to the quality of his delight. The activity
of love makes the sense of delight; its activity in heaven is with wisdom, and in hell with
insanity; each in its objects presents delight: but the heavens and the hells are in opposite
delights, because in opposite loves; the heavens in the love and thence in the delight of doing
good, but the hells in the love and thence in the delight of doing evil; if therefore you know
what delight is, you will know the nature and quality of heaven and hell. But inquire and learn
further what delight is from those who investigate causes, and are called intelligences: they
are to the right from hence." He departed, and came to them, and told them the reason of his
coming, and requested that they would teach him what delight is? And they, rejoicing at the
question, said, "It is true that he that knows what delight is, knows the nature and quality
of heaven and hell.