'You may think so now,' said the other, 'but you'll come to see it my way some day.  As for
the children--if their parents are satisfied to let them grow up to be half-starved drudges
for other people, I don't see why you or I need trouble about it.  If you like to listen to
reason,' he continued after a pause, 'I can put you on to something that will be worth more
to you than all your Socialism.'

'What do you mean?'

'Look here: you're a Socialist; well, I'm a Socialist too: that is, I have sense enough to
believe that Socialism is practical and inevitable and right; it will come when the majority
of the people are sufficiently enlightened to demand it, but that enlightenment will never
be brought about by reasoning or arguing with them, for these people are simply not intellectually
capable of abstract reasoning--they can't grasp theories.  You know what the late Lord Salisbury
said about them when somebody proposed to give them some free libraries: He said: "They don't
want libraries: give them a circus." You see these Liberals and Tories understand the sort
of people they have to deal with; they know that although their bodies are the bodies of grown
men, their minds are the minds of little children.  That is why it has been possible to deceive
and bluff and rob them for so long. But your party persists in regarding them as rational beings,
and that's where you make a mistake--you're simply wasting your time.

'The only way in which it is possible to teach these people is by means of object lessons,
and those are being placed before them in increasing numbers every day.  The trustification
of industry--the object lesson which demonstrates the possibility of collective ownership--will
in time compel even these to understand, and by the time they have learnt that, they will also
have learned by bitter experience and not from theoretical teaching, that they must either
own the trusts or perish, and then, and not, till then, they will achieve Socialism.  But meanwhile
we have this election.  Do you think it will make any real difference--for good or evil--which
of these two men is elected?'

'No.'

'Well, you can't keep them both out--you have no candidate of your own--why should you object
to earning a few pounds by helping one of them to get in?  There are plenty of voters who are
doubtful whet to do; as you and I know there is every excuse for them being unable to make
up their minds which of these two candidates is the worse, a word from your party would decide
them.  Since you have no candidate of your own you will be doing no harm to Socialism and you
will be doing yourself a bit of good.  If you like to come along with me now, I'll introduce
you to Sweater's agent--no one need know anything about it.'

He slipped his arm through Barrington's, but the latter released himself.

'Please yourself,' said the other with an affectation of indifference. 'You know your own business
best.  You may choose to be a Jesus Christ if you like, but for my part I'm finished.  For
the future I intend to look after myself.  As for these people--they vote for what they want;
they get--what they vote for; and by God, they deserve nothing better! They are being beaten
with whips of their own choosing and if I had my way they should be chastised with scorpions!
For them, the present system means joyless drudgery, semi-starvation, rags and premature death.
They vote for it all and uphold it.  Well, let them have what they vote for--let them drudge--let
them starve!'

The man with the scarred face ceased speaking, and for some moments Barrington did not reply.

'I suppose there is some excuse for your feeling as you do,' he said slowly at last, 'but it
seems to me that you do not make enough allowance for the circumstances.  From their infancy
most of them have been taught by priests and parents to regard themselves and their own class
with contempt--a sort of lower animals--and to regard those who possess wealth with veneration,
as superior beings.  The idea that they are really human creatures, naturally absolutely the
same as their so-called betters, naturally equal in every way, naturally different from them
only in those ways in which their so-called superiors differ from each other, and inferior
to them only because they have been deprived of education, culture and opportunity--you know
as well as I do that they have all been taught to regard that idea as preposterous.

'The self-styled "Christian" priests who say--with their tongues in their cheeks--that God
is our Father and that all men are brethren, have succeeded in convincing the majority of the
"brethren" that it is their duty to be content in their degradation, and to order themselves
lowly and reverently towards their masters.  Your resentment should be directed against the
deceivers, not against the dupes.'

The other man laughed bitterly.

'Well, go and try to undeceive them,' he said, as he returned to the platform in response to
a call from his associates.  'Go and try to teach them that the Supreme Being made the earth
and all its fullness for the use and benefit of all His children.  Go and try to explain to
them that they are poor in body and mind and social condition, not because of any natural inferiority,
but because they have been robbed of their inheritance.  Go and try to show them how to secure
that inheritance for themselves and their children--and see how grateful they'll be to you.'

For the next hour Barrington walked about the crowded streets in a dispirited fashion.  His
conversation with the renegade seemed to have taken all the heart out of him.  He still had
a number of the leaflets, but the task of distributing them had suddenly grown distasteful
and after a while he discontinued it.  All his enthusiasm was gone.  Like one awakened from
a dream he saw the people who surrounded him in a different light.  For the first time he properly
appreciated the offensiveness of most of those to whom he offered the handbills; some, without
even troubling to ascertain what they were about, rudely refused to accept them; some took
them and after glancing at the printing, crushed them in their hands and ostentatiously threw
them away.  Others, who recognized him as a Socialist, angrily or contemptuously declined them,
often with curses or injurious words.

His attention was presently attracted to a crowd of about thirty or forty people, congregated
near a gas lamp at the roadside.  The sound of many angry voices rose from the centre of this
group, and as he stood on the outskirts of the crowd, Barrington, being tall, was able to look
into the centre, where he saw Owen.  The light of the street lamp fell full upon the latter's
pale face, as he stood silent in the midst of a ring of infuriated men, who were all howling
at him at once, and whose malignant faces bore expressions of savage hatred, as they shouted
out the foolish accusations and slanders they had read in the Liberal and Tory papers.

Socialists wished to do away with religion and morality! to establish free love and atheism!
All the money that the working classes had saved up in the Post Office and the Friendly Societies,
was to be Robbed from them and divided up amongst a lot of drunken loafers who were too lazy
to work.  The King and all the Royal Family were to be Done Away with! and so on.

Owen made no attempt to reply, and the manner of the crowd became every moment more threatening.
It was evident that several of them found it difficult to refrain from attacking him.  It was
a splendid opportunity of doing a little fighting without running any risks. This fellow was
all by himself, and did not appear to be much of a man even at that. "And if your the raccoon collar and hood with silk want to have
fed, so he comes to two hundred. "

"Petrovich, I beg you," pleaded the government clerk, without listening
to Petrovich and to respect its effects, "from better my coat, so
he still keeps at least some time!"

"No, we can not. That would work, and wasting the money to throw into the street, "concluded
Petrovich, and Akaky ran out. Petrovich, however, still retained its long Pinched position,
highly significant lips together and let his hands from work, so
he was satisfied with the fact that this time neither he himself nor
decreased the tailoring had betrayed.

On the road Akaky went like a dream. "Something like that. I would not have thought so, that
it would happen "And then he added after some reflection:"! That is how the thing. That came out
of it. Who would have guessed that it stands so. "Silent Again he, and now again: "It is so with me.
I could not hope never ... Something ... "Instead he went home now, without knowing it, exactly
in the opposite Direction. On the way he touched a chimney sweep, and the shoulder was black it.
A scoop of lime fell on him from a house which was built on. He noted nothing. Only when he
was running up against a sentry, the halberd beside him, did it out of his bag of tobacco
on the calloused hands, he woke up, screamed for the guard at him: "Do you have to crawl into
the mouth for me? What's that sidewalk there? "Now he looked up and went home. And here he
first began to collect the thoughts and clear his position to overlooked, until he began with
no more incoherent, but deliberately and openly to speak as he spoke with a wise friend, the
trust is a matter of the heart can. "No, no, no one can talk to Petrovich. His wife must be beaten
by him have. I better go next Sunday again to him. Saturday he is drunk, and as he gets following
Sunday not open his eyes and requires strengthening. His wife is him the money, and I'm there
and then hit him a six in his hand, and so he will listen to reason, and the shell will then
go ... "Thus, the titular castle, is said to courage, waiting for the next Sunday. No sooner had
he seen that the cutter Woman of the house went, he ran straight to him. In fact, Petrovich had trouble
his one eye and was full aufzubekommen sleep and hung his head. But hardly he had understood
what it was a question again as he cried even as driven by Satan: "No, no, we can not. You must
order a new one, "The moment was there, him to press six in his hand. "Thank you, sir! Since
I can walk me a little boost on your health. But now let the coat again, he really good for
anything. I do Another of our fine to leave it. "The government clerk began again and the repair
on, but Petrovich did not hear him and shouted: "I make you a new one. Depend On me, I will do
my best! I will give you even, because now it is fashion so silver Paw appliqué sewing again. "

Akaky saw clearly that the new coat is no longer around, and his Courage was gone. From what money
he should leave him to do?

True, he was allowed to the Remuneration for the holidays, hope, but was divided in advance:
he needed new pants, had to pay for preparation of the shoemaker caps on his shoes, and then
wanted to he ordered from the seamstress three shirts. In short, the money was already spent. And
even if the director would be so gracious as to grant him forty rubles instead of forty-five or
even fifty, would the little thing that would be left but a drop in the ocean are in comparison
to the Sum, which will cost the new coat. Of course he knew that Petrovich knows why the devil, in
good spirits enjoyed doing such crazy prices, so that his own Woman could no longer keep him
and shouted: "Have you gone mad? Once working you for nothing and then drives up the devil
to ask for a price that you make not worth it.'re "If the government clerk knew that Petrovich
for the coat eighty rubles would provide - but where the company eighties? Half could get together,
he still yes, even half sure, maybe a little something more: but the other half, who should give
it? ... But the reader must first find out where he first half wanted to take. Akaky fact had
the habit of rubles spent by each to do a kopek in a small piggy bank, which was locked and a narrow
slit contained by the so received a kopek. Every six months he was counting the amount that
accumulated had, and moved them into silver. He had now done for quite some time, and in this
way was in the course of several years, the amount gathered from forty rubles. One half was
so because, in his hands, but where, once again, the other forty Rubles? Akaky reflected back
and forth and finally decided, at least one whole Year limit, which means no more to drink tea in the
evening, to kindle no light and if he had to work at night to go to the landlady and do some
writing in the candle; then on the street as quiet and careful as possible to occur, so to get
to the toes, durchzuwetzen not the soles, and finally the laundry to wash as little as possible
to and at home they take off at once so they will not wear out, and half want to give Dressing
gown to sit there who was very old and could not touch the time about anything. He found it so, to tell
the truth, at first difficult to remember all these hardships to , Used but in time it became
increasingly easy to him, so he gradually became a champion in art to go hungry in spirit to nourishing
the thoughts of the new coat.

And since these days, his whole being as it were full, as if he had married when it would be
now a being to one side as if he were no longer alone and had a delicious Girlfriend finally
decided to walk the path of life with him, and I say, this delicious girlfriend was just the
shell, inside and padded with high feed provided. Akaky was indeed
lively and solid, like a man who has a goal.

From his face and his steps were made by himself of all doubt, any hesitation, all the wavering
and uncertain features disappeared. In his Eye was sometimes fire in his brain and then flashed a
daring, even cheeky thought, could be the collar at the end but not from raccoon? I say, Akaky
was such and scattered similar thoughts, and once he had almost a mistake in copying made
so that he cried out loud, and crossed himself. Every month at least once knocked he at Petrovich
to talk about the coat: where would you be best cloth Buy, and what color it should actually
have and how expensive will it be? And each time He came, though not without sorrow, but home
happy at the thought that finally the time would be there, because you buy everything you need
and the shell to be finished would. And the time came sooner than he had thought was contrary
to all expectations because of Director not only granted him forty, but all fifty rubles.
Whether this is now suspected added that Akaky needed a new coat, or whether the so come by
itself is Akaky had at one time twenty rubles more. And that fact accelerated the matter. Two,
three months go hungry, and Akaky had the eighty rubles together. His usually calm heart began
to beat much, as he teamed up with Petrovich to the store opened. They bought very good cloth,
not too expensive, a place with a Half a year long been the sole object of their thinking and
they had seldom one month prior to elapse without the store to trade at the price, but said
it also Petrovich now that it determined was no better cloth. As food they chose Coulaincour,
tight, that would be better after the statement of the Petrovich as silk and so look and shine.
Marder did not buy it, that was too expensive, but they chose but a cat skin, the best that they
found in the store and that you keep the rest by far, so good for Marder could. Petrovich took the entire
four weeks for the coat, for there was much to sew, otherwise he would probably be finished
before it. For the work it took twenty rubles cheaper, it was not already. Everything was stitched
on silk, and helped each seam Petrovich for even with his teeth.

It was now - I can not say exactly what day - it was certainly the most glorious Days in the life
Akaky that Petrovitch brought the cloak at last. In the morning, at exactly the moment when the
titular had the office. It would also be at no other time of year the jacket came so situated,
as the strong frosts had already set in and threatened appear to be more violent. Petrovich came
with the jacket just as the good for a tailor too. His face wore an expression that Akaky had not
yet exercised on him. It seemed that he felt quite possible that he no small Thing here would
have brought to completion and that he only now become aware of the abyss would one Flick Schneider
decided disconnect from that, the new suits made.

Petrovich took out the jacket of the cloth in which he had wrapped it. (The handkerchief was fresh
from the clothes come, and he also put together the same again and put it to an immediate Use.)
He looked at him proudly and threw it with both hands very easily Akaky around the shoulders, then
he pulled it down a bit by hand, then it had to Akaky unbuttoned and can throw the mantle folds.
But Akaky wanted to be a man try the experience of sleeves; Petrovich helped him - fit the sleeve.
Short the jacket was perfect. Petrovich failed not to remark that he therefore made only so cheap would
have, because he lives far from the center and Akaky have long been familiar, would have on the
Nevsky Prospekt him a tailor to work alone seventy-five rubles taken. Akaky did not now about
to Petrovich Right, but even he feared all the huge sums that are related to the tailor to dust
make love. He paid it off, thanked him again and then entered the same with the new coat the
office. Petrovitch followed him, and found himself in this way his coat from a distance on, he turned
in a side street and came to meet on the same road Akakiewitsch, so that he could see the coat now
from the front. Meanwhile, however, walked Akaky more truly in a daily celebration mood. He felt it in
every moment that he was now the anhätte new coat, and sometimes he smiled with inner happiness.
In fact, he brought the Coat also any benefit, that is, he was both hot and good at all. On
the way Heed the titular not, and he was already in the ministry. In the hall he took the mantle
down, looked at him from all sides, and the clerk handed him to special supervision. I do
not know, had learned how the colleagues in office, that a Akaky would have new coat and that
the old hood was no more: all rushed at the same moment out into the hall to see the coat. There
they solemnly congratulated and welcomed Akaky, so that at first he probably laughed, embarrassed
last but all was. Now when but all in him, urged the new sheath must be opened and he gave
them all a company , Did give Akaky answer certainly not where and what he and how he should finish
until he assured them red in the face in its simplicity that it not a new coat, would be but
an old. But as said one of the crowd, an assistant of the chief, probably to show that he was not
arrogant and the marketing of lower officials not turn away: "That's it. I will put in its place
the company and ask all of you for this evening to me, the rest of it happens, that's my name
day today, "the officials. congratulated now the assistant and took pleasure in the invitation.
Only Akaky apologized, he could not come, but they all talked to him that the naughty, is indeed
simply a disgrace, and he could not say no. Yes, the invitation was very fond of him even as
he now remembered that he in this way in the evening the new Mantle would be able to attract.

The whole day was now Akaky for a celebration and a triumph. He was in the happiest of all Mood back
home, where he took off his coat and hung it with the greatest caution on the wall. He repeatedly
flirted with the fabric and the lining and also commented on the comparison out the old hood. He had to
laugh, so large it seemed the difference between the two. And long after dinner he laughed
him as often as the very sad state of his old hood could think of. He ate his meal with all
the merriment, and this time he wrote to from not eating, but he lounged on the bed until it
was dark. But then he pushed It also no longer pulled the new coat and went into the street.

Where
the officer lived, who gave the company, I know, unfortunately, not be exact, my Memory makes
me often now in the lurch, and St. Petersburg houses and streets are all in my Head, so confused
that I was often difficult to find in it rightly. Only as far as I know too To say that he lived
in the best neighborhood, so not very close to Akaky. First this was probably still walk through
deserted streets with dim lighting, but to the extent as he approached the home of the assistants,
the streets were busy, populated and better illuminated. Lightning fast pedestrians hurried
past him, he was nicely dressed women Men wore beaver collar, the
eye encountered only very rarely the wooden sleigh with the perforated
bottom, however, flew coach with elegant crimson velvet caps, painted
sleigh with blankets bear through the streets, and the skids and wheels
crunched on snow.

For Akaky was all new, and for many years he was in the evening not been on the road. Curious, he stopped
before a brightly lit store, and are saw it as an image depicting a beautiful woman who undresses
the shoe and so her leg can see, behind her lies a man with a beard and bow his head under the lip
Door inside. Akaky shook his head and smiled and walked on. And why he smiled? Because he met
him here a totally different world for the first time for also he could not feel lacking. Or it
was just like all other officials: "Those French! They understand that? "Maybe he thought not.
Oh, we can yes the people not to look into the soul and to know what he thinks.

At last he reached the house. The assistant living it up, the staircase was illuminated, the second
floor apartment. In the hall looked Akaky galoshes quite a long series. Among them was steaming
a samovar. On the walls hung the coats, including some with Beaver collar or Sammetaufschlägen.
Behind the wall you could hear noise and words suddenly clearly were there, the door opened
and a servant came out with empty tea glasses, Cream and a basket of biscuits on the tablet. The
guests were so for some time together, and had drunk the first glass of tea already. Akaky went
after it his coat was hung on the wall by hand, into the room, and before his eyes sparkled
in a moment the candles, the officers uniforms, whistles and card tables, and his ears were deafened
by the noise of conversation and the chair back. Awe, he stayed in the middle of the Room and are
trying to think what he should do more for now. But no sooner had him aware of his colleagues,
as they surrounded him with loud voices and equally well beyond rushed into the hall to visit
the mantle again. Akaky was not little embarrassed, but he could not rejoice in his simplicity
differently, as he saw that all praised this coat.

It was an unoccupied house with a garden in front, and the outlines of the bushes it contained
were so vague in the darkness that it was impossible to be certain; but the longer she looked
the more convinced she became that there was someone there.  At last she summoned sufficient
courage to cross over the road, and as she nervously drew near the gate it became evident that
she had not been mistaken.  There was a woman standing there--a woman with a child in her arms,
leaning against one of the pillars and holding the iron bars of the gate with her left hand.
It was Ruth.  Nora recognized her even in the semi-darkness.  Her attitude was one of extreme
exhaustion, and as Nora touched her, she perceived that she was wet through and trembling;
but although she was almost fainting with fatigue she would not consent to go indoors until
repeatedly assured that Easton was not there, and that Nora would not let him see her if he
came.  And when at length she yielded and went into the house she would not sit down or take
off her hat or jacket until--crouching on the floor beside Nora's chair with her face hidden
in the latter's lap--she had sobbed out her pitiful confession, the same things that she had
unwittingly told to the same hearer so often before during the illness, the only fact that
was new was the account of her wanderings that night.

She cried so bitterly and looked so forlorn and heartbroken and ashamed as she faltered out
her woeful story; so consumed with self-condemnation, making no excuse for herself except to
repeat over and over again that she had never meant to do wrong, that Nora could not refrain
from weeping also as she listened.

It appeared that, unable to bear the reproach that Easton's presence seemed to imply, or to
endure the burden of her secret any longer, and always haunted by the thought of the lake in
the park, Ruth had formed the dreadful resolution of taking her own life and the child's. 
When she arrived at the park gates they were closed and locked for the night but she remembered
that there was another means of entering--the place at the far end of the valley where the
park was not fenced in, so she had gone there--nearly three miles--only to find that railings
had recently been erected and therefore it was no longer possible to get into the park by that
way.  And then, when she found it impossible to put her resolve into practice, she had realized
for the first time the folly and wickedness of the act she had meant to commit.  But although
she had abandoned her first intention, she said she could never go home again; she would take
a room somewhere and get some work to do, or perhaps she might be able to get a situation where
they would allow her to have the child with her, or failing that she would work and pay someone
to look after it; but she could never go home any more.  If she only had somewhere to stay
for a few days until she could get something to do, she was sure she would be able to earn
her living, but she could not go back home; she felt that she would rather walk about the streets
all night than go there again.

It was arranged that Ruth should have the small apartment which had been Frankie's playroom,
the necessary furniture being obtained from a second-hand shop close by.  Easton did not learn
the real reason of her flight until three days afterwards.  At first he attributed it to a
recurrence of the mental disorder that she had suffered from after the birth of the child,
and he had been glad to leave her at Owen's place in Nora's care, but on the evening of the
third day when he returned home from work, he found a letter in Ruth's handwriting which told
him all there was to tell.

When he recovered from the stupefaction into which he was thrown by the perusal of this letter,
his first thought was to seek out Slyme, but he found upon inquiring that the latter had left
the town the previous morning.  Slyme's landlady said he had told her that he had been offered
several months' work in London, which he had accepted. The truth was that Slyme had heard of
Ruth's flight--nearly everyone knew about it as a result of the inquiries that had been made
for her--and, guessing the cause, he had prudently cleared out.

Easton made no attempt to see Ruth, but he went to Owen's and took Freddie away, saying he
would pay Mrs Linden to look after the child whilst he was at work.  His manner was that of
a deeply injured man--the possibility that he was in any way to blame for what had happened
did not seem to occur to his mind at all.

As for Ruth she made no resistance to his taking the child away from her, although she cried
about it in secret.  She got some work a few days afterwards--helping the servants at one of
the large boarding-houses on the Grand Parade.

Nora looked after the baby for her while she was at work, an arrangement that pleased Frankie
vastly; he said it was almost as good as having a baby of their very own.

For the first few weeks after Ruth went away Easton tried to persuade himself that he did not
very much regret what had happened.  Mrs Linden looked after Freddie, and Easton tried to believe
that he would really be better off now that he had only himself and the child to provide for.

At first, whenever he happened to meet Owen, they used to speak of Ruth, or to be more correct,
Easton used to speak of her; but one day when the two men were working together Owen had expressed
himself rather offensively.  He seemed to think that Easton was more to blame than she was;
and afterwards they avoided the subject, although Easton found it difficult to avoid the thoughts
the other man's words suggested.

Now and then he heard of Ruth and learnt that she was still working at the same place; and
once he met her suddenly and unexpectedly in the street.  They passed each other hurriedly
and he did not see the scarlet flush that for an instant dyed her face, nor the deathly pallor
that succeeded it.

He never went to Owen's place or sent any communication to Ruth, nor did she ever send him
any; but although Easton did not know it she frequently saw Freddie, for when Elsie Linden
took the child out she often called to see Mrs Owen.

As time went on and the resentment he had felt towards her lost its first bitterness, Easton
began to think there was perhaps some little justification for what Owen had said, and gradually
there grew within him an immense desire for reconciliation--to start afresh and to forget all
that had happened; but the more he thought of this the more hopeless and impossible of realization
it seemed.

Although perhaps he was not conscious of it, this desire arose solely from selfish motives.
The money he earned seemed to melt away almost as soon as he received it; to his surprise he
found that he was not nearly so well off in regard to personal comfort as he had been formerly,
and the house seemed to grow more dreary and desolate as the wintry days dragged slowly by.
Sometimes--when he had the money--he sought forgetfulness in the society of Crass and the other
frequenters of the Cricketers, but somehow or other he could not take the same pleasure in
the conversation of these people as formerly, when he had found it--as he now sometimes wondered
to remember--so entertaining as to almost make him forget Ruth's existence.

One evening about three weeks before Christmas, as he and Owen were walking homewards together
from work, Easton reverted for the first time to their former conversation.  He spoke with
a superior air: his manner and tone indicating that he thought he was behaving with great generosity.
He would be willing to forgive her and have her back, he said, if she would come: but he would
never be able to tolerate the child.  Of course it might be sent to an orphanage or some similar
institution, but he was afraid Ruth would never consent to that, and he knew that her stepmother
would not take it.

'If you can persuade her to return to you, we'll take the child,' said Owen.

'Do you think your wife would be willing?'

'She has already suggested doing so.'

'To Ruth?'

'No: to me.  We thought it a possible way for you, and my wife would like to have the child.'

'But would you be able to afford it?' said Easton.

'We should manage all right.'

'Of course,' said Easton, 'if Slyme comes back he might agree to pay something for its keep.'

Owen flushed.

'I wouldn't take his money.'

After a long pause Easton continued: 'Would you mind asking Mrs Owen to suggest it to Ruth?'

'If you like I'll get her to suggest it--as a message from you.'

'What I meant,' said Easton hesitatingly, 'was that your wife might just suggest it--casual
like--and advise her that it would be the best way, and then you could let me know what Ruth said.'

'No,' replied Owen, unable any longer to control his resentment of the other's manner, 'as
things stand now, if it were not for the other child, I should advise her to have nothing further
to do with you. You seem to think that you are acting a very generous part in being "willing"
to have her back, but she's better off now than she was with you.  I see no reason--except
for the other child--why she should go back to you.  As far as I understand it, you had a good
wife and you ill-treated her.'

'I never ill-treated her!  I never raised my hand to her--at least only once, and then I didn't
hurt her.  Does she say I ill-treated her.'

'Oh no: from what my wife tells me she only blames herself, but I'm drawing my own conclusions.
You may not have struck her, but you did worse--you treated her with indifference and exposed
her to temptation. What has happened is the natural result of your neglect and want of care
for her.  The responsibility for what has happened is mainly yours, but apparently you wish
to pose now as being very generous and to "forgive her"--you're "willing" to take her back;
but it seems to me that it would be more fitting that you should ask her to forgive you.'

Easton made no answer and after a long silence the other continued:

'I would not advise her to go back to you on such terms as you seem to think right, because
if you became reconciled on such terms I don't think either of you could be happy.  Your only
chance of happiness is to realize that you have both done wrong; that each of you has something
to forgive; to forgive and never speak of it again.'

Easton made no reply and a few minutes afterwards, their ways diverging, they wished each other
'Good night'.

They were working for Rushton--painting the outside of a new conservatory at Mr Sweater's house,
'The Cave'.  This job was finished the next day and at four o'clock the boy brought the handcart,
which they loaded with their ladders and other materials.  They took these back to the yard
and then, as it was Friday night, they went up to the front shop and handed in their time sheets.
Afterwards, as they were about to separate, Easton again referred to the subject of their conversation
of the previous evening.  He had been very reserved and silent all day, scarcely uttering a
word except when the work they had been engaged in made it necessary to do so, and there was
now a sort of catch in his voice as he spoke.

'I've been thinking over what you said last night; it's quite true. I've been a great deal
to blame.  I wrote to Ruth last night and admitted it to her.  I'll take it as a favour if
you and your wife will say what you can to help me get her back.'

Owen stretched out his hand and as the other took it, said: 'You may rely on us both to do
our best.'

Chapter 51

The Widow's Son

The next morning when they went to the yard at half past eight o'clock Hunter told them that
there was nothing to do, but that they had better come on Monday in case some work came in.
They accordingly went on the Monday, and Tuesday and Wednesday, but as nothing 'came in' of
course they did not do any work.  On Thursday morning the weather was dark and bitterly cold.
The sky presented an unbroken expanse of dull grey and a keen north wind swept through the
cheerless streets.  Owen--who had caught cold whilst painting the outside of the conservatory
at Sweater's house the previous week--did not get to the yard until ten o'clock.  He felt so
ill that he would not have gone at all if they had not needed the money he would be able to
earn if there was anything to do.  Strange though it may appear to the advocates of thrift,
although he had been so fortunate as to be in employment when so many others were idle, they
had not saved any money.  On the contrary, during all the summer they had not been able to
afford to have proper food or clothing.  Every week most of the money went to pay arrears of
rent or some other debts, so that even whilst he was at work they had often to go without some
of the necessaries of life.  They had broken boots, shabby, insufficient clothing, and barely
enough to eat.

The weather had become so bitterly cold that, fearing he would be laid up if he went without
it any longer, he took his overcoat out of pawn, and that week they had to almost starve. 
Not that it was much better other weeks, for lately he had only been making six and a half
hours a day--from eight-thirty in the morning till four o'clock in the evening, and on Saturday
only four and a half hours--from half past eight till one.  This made his wages--at sevenpence
an hour--twenty-one shillings and sevenpence a week--that is, when there was work to do every
day, which was not always.  Sometimes they had to stand idle three days out of six.  The wages
of those who got sixpence halfpenny came out at one pound and twopence--when they worked every
day--and as for those who--like Sawkins--received only fivepence, their week's wages amounted
to fifteen and sixpence.

When they were only employed for two or three days or perhaps only a few hours, their 'Saturday
night' sometimes amounted to half a sovereign, seven and sixpence, five shillings or even less.
Then most of them said that it was better than nothing at all.

Many of them were married men, so, in order to make existence possible, their wives went out
charing or worked in laundries. We do not expect these surpluses that of into what
needs to be delivered forcibly Reparationsrechnung. These items contribute to Activation of the
trade balance with nothing, so they may be considerably in value. On the contrary, they worsen
our balance sheet, because as far as foreign raw materials and foreign labor crystallized directly
or indirectly in them, they have recruited only with expensive costs be. Let us see from this kind
of export, is to, first, that certain industries their export surpluses have lost or greatly reduced.
This is important for industries agricultural raw materials processing, such as the sugar industry,
whose export previously earned several hundred million gold marks, it also applies to the spirits
industry. It is also true for the coal export. In a similar effect, the tariff policy "hole in the
West, "which are the product of the pressure on foreign markets often surreptitiously into our
Agricultural pumps, German industries, especially in occupied territories, and paralyze us with
a Variety happily import goods which were better for the state of our impoverishment outside.
The loss of industries in the ceded territory, the material delivered to the Entente Due to
the armistice and peace, the strong employment for the construction of the Own economy and the
decline in quantity and quality of services, the closure of some plants lead to significant
reductions of the surplus with them.
 Because it was so cold he was wearing his jacket with the ends of the sleeves
turned back to keep them clean, or to prevent them getting any dirtier, for they were already
in the same condition as the rest of his attire, which was thickly encrusted with dried paint
of many colours, and his hands and fingernails were grimed with it.

As he watched the poor boy bending over his task, Owen thought of Frankie, and with a feeling
akin to terror wondered whether he would ever be in a similar plight.

When he saw Owen, the boy left off working and wished him good morning, remarking that it was
very cold.

'Why don't you light a fire?  There's lots of wood lying about the yard.'

'No,' said Bert shaking his head.  'That would never do!  Misery wouldn't 'arf ramp if 'e caught
me at it.  I used to 'ave a fire 'ere last winter till Rushton found out, and 'e kicked up
an orful row and told me to move meself and get some work done and then I wouldn't feel the cold.'

'Oh, he said that, did he?' said Owen, his pale face becoming suddenly suffused with blood.
'We'll see about that.'

He went out into the yard and crossing over to where--under a shed--there was a great heap
of waste wood, stuff that had been taken out of places where Rushton & Co. had made alterations,
he gathered an armful of it and was returning to the paintshop when Sawkins accosted him.

'You mustn't go burnin' any of that, you know!  That's all got to be saved and took up to the
bloke's house.  Misery spoke about it only this mornin'.'

Owen did not answer him.  He carried the wood into the shop and after throwing it into the
fireplace he poured some old paint over it, and, applying a match, produced a roaring fire.
Then he brought in several more armfuls of wood and piled them in a corner of the shop.  Bert
took no part in these proceedings, and at first rather disapproved of them because he was afraid
there would be trouble when Misery came, but when the fire was an accomplished fact he warmed
his hands and shifted his work to the other side of the bench so as to get the benefit of the heat.

Owen waited for about half an hour to see if Hunter would return, but as that disciple did
not appear, he decided not to wait any longer. Before leaving he gave Bert some instructions:

'Keep up the fire with all the old paint that you can scrape off those things and any other
old paint or rubbish that's here, and whenever it grows dull put more wood on.  There's a lot
of old stuff here that's of no use except to be thrown away or burnt.  Burn it all.  If Hunter
says anything, tell him that I lit the fire, and that I told you to keep it burning.  If you
want more wood, go out and take it.'

'All right,' replied Bert.

On his way out Owen spoke to Sawkins.  His manner was so menacing, his face so pale, and there
was such a strange glare in his eyes, that the latter thought of the talk there had been about
Owen being mad, and felt half afraid of him.

'I am going to the office to see Rushton; if Hunter comes here, you say I told you to tell
him that if I find the boy in that shop again without a fire, I'll report it to the Society
for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.  And as for you, if the boy comes out here to get
more wood, don't you attempt to interfere with him.'

'I don't want to interfere with the bloody kid,' grunted Sawkins.  'It seems to me as if he's
gorn orf 'is bloody crumpet,' he added as he watched Owen walking rapidly down the street.
'I can't understand why people can't mind their own bloody business: anyone would think the
boy belonged to 'IM.'

That was just how the matter presented itself to Owen.  The idea that it was his own child
who was to be treated in this way possessed and infuriated him as he strode savagely along.
In the vicinity of the Slave Market on the Grand Parade he passed--without seeing them--several
groups of unemployed artisans whom he knew.  Some of them were offended and remarked that he
was getting stuck up, but others, observing how strange he looked, repeated the old prophecy
that one of these days Owen would go out of his mind.

As he drew near to his destination large flakes of snow began to fall. Export opportunities, has the egenleis on G obligations
are based, and 2 if their own power is not paralyzed. On the first point is in this connection
only briefly noted that the narrowed scope for exports of German Industry of today in the largest extent
gratuitous. They are largely one-sided Services that run directly or indirectly on account of reparation
and to this extent dead loads of our economy represent for the labor services in Germany,
although millions of where to live but no one can. That being said, however, the peace treaty
and the bases our industry is seriously handicapped. An estimated one-quarter of our German Kaliförderung
was lost with Alsace-Lorraine; important than the funding loss is the loss of its monopoly, which Germany
had in the potash market. 79% of our iron ore before the war supported - The backbone of our industry and
every industrial life - by the loss Lorraine and Luxembourg, then the customs exclusion, and
approximately 9% of our coal production is at least for 15 years, by the separation of the
Saar revoked, about two Fifth of our carbon frames Office funding would be lost if Upper Silesia
in Poland falls [1].

  [1] This is now done by the League now the most industrial part
      of Upper Silesia, Poland winning bids.

The Ruhr, worm-and medium-German coal field is all that remains to us. But also their Promotion
is not to our disposal. The peace agreement we are charged in Years with supplies to the Entente,
they face more than 40 million tons. The Spaaer Agreement is then reduced this fantasy claim.
Since we have the free disposal of the Upper Silesian coal since the occupation of the land
is taken, rests the heavy burden of Care in the Ruhr area. This request was neither the old staff
has grown, yet arrived the delivery and transport facilities. The effect was twofold: It had
to Workforce and increasing the opportunities to increase traffic - what with immense to make sacrifices
on the part of the empire was (apartment buildings, wages, food subsidies) -, and German companies
had to restrict their consumers of coal, often enough even the Workers laid off and lie still,
because the forced delivery of coal is going on. These were partly almost disastrous conditions,
which touched on the marrow of our industrial life. Today in fact, the raw ceiling has become
scarce, coal, ores of zinc, lead etc. Today the German East has even less than before the opportunity
to hold its people, during the Ruhr worse than ever before, with requirements for the German
economy be charged for all provinces and for the fulfillment of people demonstrated undesirable
close must. These are shifts that are shaking our industrial base to inform us unable our people
to feed themselves, and of course our first exposure to our contract services force the Entente
- with the effect umübersehbarer political consequences!

These are not the only circumcision of our being by the peace treaty. The contract rob the German
people with a thoroughness and shamelessness in all directions out, combine in which hatred,
brutality, and hypocrisy to a nasty grimace. No Assets abroad, no ship park, no cable, no claims,
rights and privileges, no patents and utility models are not overlooked. And to all the shamelessness
of this Looting is out of the Pharisees coat of retributive justice. All the righteous indignation
not change the fact that the valuable items in our economy in the form of economic, maritime and military
tools are all lost, and that the winner on German have usurped the ground and in the German economic
rights compulsorily, which in itself narrow base of the German land and German sovereignty incredibly
narrow. In real Knowledge of the facts, wrote the English journal "Nation" of 22 March 1919: "There
is People in and beyond Europe, which, when they talk about peace, my theft. You want Germany's mines
steal its cable channels, coal, land, ships, Credit, Industries, Patents, trade secrets, they
want to move its landmarks and its open chest disclose all the enemies on all corners and ends.
  The terror of the future made rest or sleep
impossible.  He got up very early the next morning--long before it was light--and after lighting
the fire, set about preparing the samples he had mentioned to Nora, but found that it would
not be possible to do much in this direction without buying more cardboard, for most of what
he had was not in good condition.

They had bread and butter and tea for breakfast.  Frankie had his in bed and it was decided
to keep him away from school until after dinner because the weather was so very cold and his
only pair of boots were so saturated with moisture from having been out in the snow the previous
day.

'I shall make a few inquiries to see if there's any other work to be had before I buy the cardboard,'
said Owen, 'although I'm afraid it's not much use.'

Just as he was preparing to go out, the front door bell rang, and as he was going down to answer
it he saw Bert White coming upstairs.  The boy was carrying a flat, brown-paper parcel under
his arm.

'A corfin plate,' he explained as he arrived at the door.  'Wanted at once--Misery ses you
can do it at 'ome, an' I've got to wait for it.'

Owen and his wife looked at each other with intense relief.  So he was not to be dismissed
after all.  It was almost too good to be true.

'There's a piece of paper inside the parcel with the name of the party what's dead,' continued
Bert, 'and here's a little bottle of Brunswick black for you to do the inscription with.'

'Did he send any other message?'

'Yes: he told me to tell you there's a job to be started Monday morning--a couple of rooms
to be done out somewhere.  Got to be finished by Thursday; and there's another job 'e wants
you to do this afternoon--after dinner--so you've got to come to the yard at one o'clock. 
'E told me to tell you 'e meant to leave a message for you yesterday morning, but 'e forgot.'

'What did he say to you about the fire--anything?'

'Yes: they both of 'em came about an hour after you went away--Misery and the Bloke too--but
they didn't kick up a row.  I wasn't arf frightened, I can tell you, when I saw 'em both coming,
but they was quite nice.  The Bloke ses to me, "Ah, that's right, my boy," 'e ses. "Keep up
a good fire.  I'm going to send you some coke," 'e ses.  And then they 'ad a look round and
'e told Sawkins to put some new panes of glass where the winder was broken, and--you know that
great big packing-case what was under the truck shed?'

'Yes.'

'Well, 'e told Sawkins to saw it up and cover over the stone floor of the paint-shop with it.
It ain't 'arf all right there now.  I've cleared out all the muck from under the benches and
we've got two sacks of coke sent from the gas-works, and the Bloke told me when that's all
used up I've got to get a order orf Miss Wade for another lot.'

At one o'clock Owen was at the yard, where he saw Misery, who instructed him to go to the front
shop and paint some numbers on the racks where the wallpapers were stored.  Whilst he was doing
this work Rushton came in and greeted him in a very friendly way.

'I'm very glad you let me know about the boy working in that paint-shop,' he observed after
a few preliminary remarks.  'I can assure you as I don't want the lad to be uncomfortable,
but you know I can't attend to everything myself.  I'm much obliged to you for telling me about
it; I think you did quite right; I should have done the same myself.'

Owen did not know what to reply, but Rushton walked off without waiting...

Chapter 52

'It's a Far, Far Better Thing that I do, than I have Ever Done'

Although Owen, Easton and Crass and a few others were so lucky as to have had a little work
to do during the last few months, the majority of their fellow workmen had been altogether
out of employment most of the time, and meanwhile the practical business-men, and the pretended
disciples of Christ--the liars and hypocrites who professed to believe that all men are brothers
and God their Father--had continued to enact the usual farce that they called 'Dealing' with
the misery that surrounded them on every side.  They continued to organize 'Rummage' and 'Jumble'
sales and bazaars, and to distribute their rotten cast-off clothes and boots and their broken
victuals and soup to such of the Brethren as were sufficiently degraded to beg for them. The
beautiful Distress Committee was also in full operation; over a thousand Brethren had registered
themselves on its books.  Of this number--after careful investigation--the committee had found
that no fewer than six hundred and seventy-two were deserving of being allowed to work for
their living.  The Committee would probably have given these six hundred and seventy-two the
necessary permission, but it was somewhat handicapped by the fact that the funds at its disposal
were only sufficient to enable that number of Brethren to be employed for about three days.
However, by adopting a policy of temporizing, delay, and general artful dodging, the Committee
managed to create the impression that they were Dealing with the Problem.

If it had not been for a cunning device invented by Brother Rushton, a much larger number of
the Brethren would have succeeded in registering themselves as unemployed on the books of the
Committee.  In previous years it had been the practice to issue an application form called
a 'Record Paper' to any Brother who asked for one, and the Brother returned it after filling
it in himself.  At a secret meeting of the Committee Rushton proposed--amid laughter and applause,
it was such a good joke--a new and better way, calculated to keep down the number of applicants.
The result of this innovation was that no more forms were issued, but the applicants for work
were admitted into the office one at a time, and were there examined by a junior clerk, somewhat
after the manner of a French Juge d'Instruction interrogating a criminal, the clerk filling
in the form according to the replies of the culprit.

'What's your name?'

'Where do you live?'

'How long have you been living there?'

'Where did you live before you went there?'

'How long were you living at that place?'

'Why did you move?'

'Did you owe any rent when you left?'

'What was your previous address?'

'How old are you?  When was your last birthday?'

'What is your Trade, Calling, Employment, or Occupation?'

'Are you Married or single or a Widower or what?'

'How many children have you?  How many boys?  How many girls?  Do they go to work?  What do
they earn?'

'What kind of a house do you live in?  How many rooms are there?'

'How much rent do you owe?'

'Who was your last employer?  What was the foreman's name?  How long did you work there?  What
kind of work did you do?  Why did you leave?'

'What have you been doing for the last five years?  What kind of work, how many hours a day?
What wages did you get?'

'Give the full names and addresses of all the different employers you have worked for during
the last five years, and the reasons why you left them?'

'Give the names of all the foremen you have worked under during the last five years?'

'Does your wife earn anything?  How much?'

'Do you get any money from any Club or Society, or from any Charity, or from any other source?'

'Have you ever received Poor Relief?'

'Have you ever worked for a Distress Committee before?'

'Have you ever done any other kinds of work than those you have mentioned?  Do you think you
would be fit for any other kind? 'Have you any references?' and so on and so forth.

When the criminal had answered all the questions, and when his answers had all been duly written
down, he was informed that a member of the Committee, or an Authorized Officer, or some Other
Person, would in due course visit his home and make inquiries about him, after which the Authorized
Officer or Other Person would make a report to the Committee, who would consider it at their
next meeting.

As the interrogation of each criminal occupied about half an hour, to say nothing of the time
he was kept waiting, it will be seen that as a means of keeping down the number of registered
unemployed the idea worked splendidly.

When Rushton introduced this new rule it was carried unanimously, Dr Weakling being the only
dissentient, but of course he--as Brother Grinder remarked--was always opposed to any sensible
proposal.  There was one consolation, however, Grinder added, they was not likely to be pestered
with 'im much longer; the first of November was coming and if he--Grinder--knowed anything
of working men they was sure to give Weakling the dirty kick out directly they got the chance.

A few days afterwards the result of the municipal election justified Brother Grinder's prognostications,
for the working men voters of Dr Weakling's ward did give him the dirty kick out: but Rushton,
Didlum, Grinder and several other members of the band were triumphantly returned with increased
majorities.

Mr Dauber, of Dauber and Botchit, had already been elected a Guardian of the Poor.

During all this time Hunter, who looked more worried and miserable as the dreary weeks went
by, was occupied every day in supervising what work was being done and in running about seeking
for more.  Nearly every night he remained at the office until a late hour, poring over specifications
and making out estimates.  The police had become so accustomed to seeing the light in the office
that as a rule they took no notice of it, but one Thursday night--exactly one week after the
scene between Owen and Rushton about the boy--the constable on the beat observed the light
there much later than usual.  At first he paid no particular attention to the fact, but when
night merged into morning and the light still remained, his curiosity was aroused.

He knocked at the door, but no one came in answer, and no sound disturbed the deathlike stillness
that reigned within. The door was locked, but he was not able to tell whether it had been closed
from the inside or outside, because it had a spring latch.  The office window was low down,
but it was not possible to see in because the back of the glass had been painted.

The constable thought that the most probable explanation of the mystery was that whoever had
been there earlier in the evening had forgotten to turn out the light when they went away;
it was not likely that thieves or anyone who had no business to be there would advertise their
presence by lighting the gas.

He made a note of the incident in his pocket-book and was about to resume his beat when he
was joined by his inspector.  The latter agreed that the conclusion arrived at by the constable
was probably the right one and they were about to pass on when the inspector noticed a small
speck of light shining through the lower part of the painted window, where a small piece of
the paint had either been scratched or had shelled off the glass.  He knelt down and found
that it was possible to get a view of the interior of the office, and as he peered through
he gave a low exclamation.  When he made way for his subordinate to look in his turn, the constable
was with some difficulty able to distinguish the figure of a man lying prone upon the floor.

It was an easy task for the burly policeman to force open the office door: a single push of
his shoulder wrenched it from its fastenings and as it flew back the socket of the lock fell
with a splash into a great pool of blood that had accumulated against the threshold, flowing
from the place where Hunter was lying on his back, his arms extended and his head nearly severed
from his body.  On the floor, close to his right hand, was an open razor.  An overturned chair
lay on the floor by the side of the table where he usually worked, the table itself being littered
with papers and drenched with blood.

Within the next few days Crass resumed the role he had played when Hunter was ill during the
summer, taking charge of the work and generally doing his best to fill the dead man's place,
although--as he confided to certain of his cronies in the bar of the Cricketers--he had no
intention of allowing Rushton to do the same as Hunter had done. One of his first jobs--on
the morning after the discovery of the body--was to go with Mr Rushton to look over a house
where some work was to be done for which an estimate had to be given.  It was this estimate
that Hunter had been trying to make out the previous evening in the office, for they found
that the papers on his table were covered with figures and writing relating to this work. 
These papers justified the subsequent verdict of the Coroner's jury that Hunter committed suicide
in a fit of temporary insanity, for they were covered with a lot of meaningless scribbling,
the words wrongly spelt and having no intelligible connection with each other.  There was one
sum that he had evidently tried repeatedly to do correctly, but which came wrong in a different
way every time.  The fact that he had the razor in his possession seemed to point to his having
premeditated the act, but this was accounted for at the inquest by the evidence of the last
person who saw him alive, a hairdresser, who stated that Hunter had left the razor with him
to be sharpened a few days previously and that he had called for it on the evening of the tragedy.
He had ground this razor for Mr Hunter several times before.

Crass took charge of all the arrangements for the funeral.  He bought a new second-hand pair
of black trousers at a cast-off clothing shop in honour of the occasion, and discarded his
own low-crowned silk hat--which was getting rather shabby--in favour of Hunter's tall one,
which he found in the office and annexed without hesitation or scruple. It was rather large
for him, but he put some folded strips of paper inside the leather lining.  Crass was a proud
man as he walked in Hunter's place at the head of the procession, trying to look solemn, but
with a half-smile on his fat, pasty face, destitute of colour except one spot on his chin near
his underlip, where there was a small patch of inflammation about the size of a threepenny
piece. This law of the mass of the electron became the touchstone of
the original special relativity theory. At first denied, has it evolved over the years been found
with increasing accuracy as true, the sharpest in the finest expressions of moving electrons in
the spectra of the simplest atoms. Since then, may the circle of ideas of special relativity are
saved as experimental; Since then we have established ourselves comfortably in the four-dimensional
Minkowski world and know in their sometimes distorted visions paradoxical way around.

But I must make even greater demands on your abstraction. For now I must Show them how Einstein
incorporated the old riddle of gravitation force in his system added. The gravity since Newton
was in the formula of Newton's law: "proportional the acting dimensions, inversely proportional
to the square of the distance solidified. "In also had from our daily experience of the gravity
or from the observations the astronomers of the gravitational effects between the stars nothing about
their mode of action result. Of all the gravitational forces had maintained only as instantaneous action
at a distance. Only Einstein could be observable gain their new pages. I would not want the way To
describe how Einstein came to some criss-cross passes to target, but only describe the target
itself, to which he has arrived.

Let us return to the position of our land system, but this time we put not a plane but a curved
surface such as a ball. We can not be removed from the sphere surface, we can not perceive
outside of the sphere, does not take any customer enters from the outside nor the inside of the ball
to us. There are also now We do not see the top and bottom, but only side by side. Our world
is like before only extended twice. It is in this case, incidentally, not infinite, but includes
in the finite. There are no straight lines in our world, but only certain straightest lines. They
are in the case of the sphere, the great circle, such as the meridians of any pole from, but not
the parallel circuits. We initiated a mass point in the plane to, he runs into a straight line.
We encounter him in the same way to the ball on, it runs itself leave and not influenced by
external forces, in a most direct line, in a major Circles around the ball. The natural force-free
tracks are in the curved surface the straightest lines, as they are not curved plane, the straight
lines. Construct we are in the spherical geometry, it is to the ordinary Euclidean geometry
different. On the sphere we have the simplest case of so-called non-Euclidean Geometry. While in Euclidean
geometry is well known: the sum of angles in a triangle is equal to two right, according to the non-Euclidean
spherical geometry: The angle sum in the triangle is greater than two right angles. Let us construct such
as a triangle of sheer straightest Lines in the following way: We go from the north pole N on one
meridian to the equator, this along a quarter of its circumference, and again on

[=== Figure 2 - see figure2.png ===]

one meridian to the pole back, the last piece in the opposite direction
to the marked Arrows, whose meaning we come back later.

Every corner of this triangle is a Right (in the figure denoted by R), the angle sum is like three
rights, ie larger two rights, as our set of the sum of angles in the non-Euclidean geometry
required.

All these assertions are easily checked by the view.

But now comes a Step that requires a certain intellectual fearlessness. Our area is being in
connection with its spherical surface conceptual construct a three-fold extended space, the same
properties as its spherical surface, in the example of non-Euclidean set of the angle sum is generally
applicable and run back in the straightest lines all in itself, So no straight lines. Such a "curved
space" we can not imagine; and yet we must orient ourselves conceptually and mathematically
in it. And even more, we must proceed to a curved four-dimensional W orld and only a uniform, the
type of ball curved world, but to a world of w echselnden K r ä ü mmungsverh ratios n.

What to do now that strange circle of ideas with geometric theory of gravitation? Let us start
again the sake of clarity in our flat, only two times extended World
back.

Although the surface is generally rough and flat, not curved so they but hump, curved bulges in
those areas where there are masses. Each Matter is the seat of manifold forms of energy, chemical and
physical energies that stuck in the binding of atoms to each other and in the structure of atoms.
matter may instead We say, therefore, overall energy in the broadest sense of the word. Wherever
the physical Events play and therefore energy is localized, particularly among the points Energy
concentration, tangible matter, should be curved in our flat world, more or less, according as we
are dealing with greater or lesser concentration of energy. Consider in particular two such hump: a bulge
of overwhelming, we sun Call and a small hump, which we call the planet. We give the latter an
impetus and run it through our world. Had the sun not there and everything just hump, would
thus our planet move to a straight line. The presence of the sun hump a result, that he is moving
instead to a straightest path. This deviates from the straight line to from the more, the closer
is the planet to the sun.

They thus see already how this two-dimensional likeness of gravitational theory behaves. At the
locations of large energy concentration is the Raumzeitstrukur a singular, curved. the straightest
paths in the vicinity of such points deviate far from the straight
Railways and behave almost as we know it from the old theory of gravity
since as Kepler ellipses.

We do not need to introduce specific gravity. Paths which are run only under the influence of
gravity, are force-free, straightest paths, and their curvature only reflects the shift in
the energy accumulation World curvature resist. The starting point of relativity theory remains
well preserved. Space and time are nothing. They acquire their properties, their structure in them
only through the included physical energy imparted.

[=== Figure 3 - see figure3.png ===]

The orbits are approximated by this gravitational theory Kepler tracks, but not exactly. Newton's
law is only a first approximation, a closer account of deviations
occur on.

The ellipse is not closed, but a slowly rotating, a fee of advancing
perihelion.

(Perihelion known to be the biggest point is near the Sun on the Earth's path.) The figure
shows a very exaggerated scale that Perihelfortschritt. He is the stronger expected, the closer the
planet to the sun, so when Mercury, the closest to the Sun of most of the planet. According
to the observations and calculations of astronomers, is now entering the Indeed, a perihelion of Mercury,
which can not be explained by Newton's theory leaves. It amounts to 43 arc seconds in this century,
that is to say that after 30 000 Centuries, the orbit of Mercury will return to their original
position. In the distant sun Planets, such as the earth, the progression of the perihelion,
however immeasurably small.

Just this value of 43 seconds in the century led to Einstein's statement now because his new view
of gravity.

Note well: the Einsteinian thought was its output of epistemological claims had nowhere a vagueness
or gap knew nothing of Merkurperihel from home and yet inevitably led to the astronomical observation
value.

I can not hide the fact that a critical review of the astronomical
indication of 43 Seconds, carried out the Mr Grossman recently released
this value uncertain can, as astronomers previously thought.

The most likely value after Mr. Grossman somewhat lower than 43 seconds. By the time the astronomers
will have agreed on this point, can one say only that the new theory of gravity in any case the
magnitude of the Mercury perihelion correctly reflect.

[=== Figure 4 - see figure4.png ===]

We return to our image of the sun hump in the two-dimensional flat
world.

Instead of a planet we are now chasing a light beam passing by the sun. Again, this is on a
straightest path, in the absence of curvature world he would describe a straight path. Here,
too, acts like the planet, the curvature of space in the vicinity of the Sun as if an attraction
of the sun would be exerted on the beam, as if the light beam after the sun fell. Think of
the analog, but basically it essentially different conditions the atmospheric refraction, where
the light beam in the atmosphere also curves. What have we to expect here, shows the next figure. The
star A, which are light by sending hard in the sun, the earth observation does not appear in A,
but because of the curved shape of the light path in the extension of the beam end, ie at B
of the heavens. Tanning Nearby Stars thus show an apparent diversion from the sun's limb continued.
Of course, these distractions can onnenfinst only during a total S Erni observed, otherwise
the star light is emitted by the sun.

[=== Figure 5 - see figure5.png ===]

On 29 May 1919 there was a solar eclipse was total in Brazil. Germany was of their observation
locked, England fitted out two expeditions. The results are been sent to me. The constellation
was particularly favorable because seven relatively bright Stars near the sun stood. Our image
in Figure 5 represents the darkened sun with its luminous halo, the corona, dar. The 7 stars
are marked by small circles.

From the stars from the distractions as straight lines are plotted as theoretically According to
Einstein to calculate, they extend in a radial direction and are closer to the sun Stars larger
than for the distant sun. The scale is thousands of times over the top. At the sun's limb, the
theoretical deflection of only 1.7 arcsec, ie so small that we they do not draw in our image
can, in the double middle distance from the sun the deflection halbmal even smaller. In the
same exaggerated scale are now the watch distractions as lines registered with an arrowhead. The real
distractions are on the photographic plate measure out only under the microscope, and in general
only indirectly observed. Apart from the eclipse itself was receiving a recording number Made
weeks after the eclipse, at a time when the sun issue, from the Area of ​​the fixed stars had
been removed. Moreover, a third testing block was recorded, to be photographed in the telescope inverted,
ie with the glass side out, with the Layer side was attached to the inside. This plate was
then compared with the two Bebachtungsplatten, of the solar eclipse and recorded by the same, layer upon layer
of Coverage can be placed. The distractions of the stars are through this indirect method
the microscope was measured and after the compensation process to be constructed. As our figure
shows, the derived empirical distractions vote again surprising with the theoretical. It shows
not only how these approximate the radial direction from the solar center to the outside (which
is partly offset by the applied procedure causes, is thus not readily be conclusive), but they
also consistently almost the same size and a demand by the theory of reduction in size with
increasing distance the star from the sun.

[=== Figure 6 - see figure6.png ===]

This is demonstrated most convincingly
in the next picture which the English original report is removed.

Towards the top, are the star distractions to the right, the reciprocal
distances from the solar center points plotted to go with which the
theoretical deflections proportional.

The decrease in deflection with increasing distance from the sun will theoretically by the strong
solid straight line. The actual observation points (through strong points reproduced) of these
lines are very close, much closer than the dotted line, after which represent an older, non-consistent
theory of Einstein the star distraction would. Let it not that the deflection causes the star
location through the solar atmosphere could be. In such great distances as they come here in
question is the solar atmosphere simply irrelevant. The astronomical expert agree that the
evidence the English eclipse images is justified.

The aim of any science, is for a beautiful words of the mathematician Jacobi, honor the human mind.
The 29th May 1919 is a day of honor for all time of human Mind to stay.

In addition to the Merkurperihel and the eclipse observations, it is a third criterion for the
Einstein gravitational theory: the redshift of spectral lines that appear on the Sun arise, compared
to the spectral lines of the same substance when under terrestrial
Conditions are caused.

You know, since there is an astrophysics, the appearance the so-called Doppler effect. It consists
in the shift of the spectrum to the red Side with stars, remove from the earth, to violet in
a shift of the Page for stars that lie in the earth. The size of this shift corresponds to the
Speed ​​with which the concerned star from us, or continue moving towards us. Man maintains, therefore,
predicted by Einstein redshift in the solar spectrum by a to characterize velocity effect in the
Doppler effect the same redshift would, and that this velocity is 0.6 km per second.

Of the physical basis of this redshift where there is only so much to say that of course he not
as the ordinary Doppler effect in a relative motion of the sun to the earth, but lies in the
gravitational field of the sun. This is very much greater than the gravitational field of the
earth. The red shift corresponds directly to the difference in the
severity on the solar surface and underground.

[=== Figure 7 - see figure7.png ===]

The most appropriate test object to examine the effect of the so-called
Zyanbanden form lines.

Strangely enough, were vested with the best tools American observatories
no systematic shift of these lines to the red side show.

The Bonn Grebe and Bachem but physicists have only demonstrated the caution when comparing one the solar
lines and the lines must proceed from earthly light sources to secure results to obtain. Both spectra
contain not only the disputed Zyanlinien, but beside a tangle of lines of different origin,
which overlap those. If such a photometrically Spectrum, ie to set the light intensity in
their dependence on the wavelength by represents a graph, a jagged curve is like a mountain ridge.
Only those lines are properly represented in the graph by an isolated spike, and if an Survey of
foreign origin is close to, falsifying the situation of the main wave and makes it unsuitable for
studying the redshift. This approach proved critical from 36 measured only 9 and unsuspicious
Zyanlinien and useful. According to RT Birge restrict the choice even further to two of these lines.
And lo and behold, if any suspicious flying off and only 9 or 2 mint are used, the result If
the correct amount of redshift, as predicted by Einstein, namely about 0.6 kilometers per second.

[===
Figure 8 - see figure8.png ===]

I want to bring one last example of the language, which, though not as a touchstone Einstein's
gravitational theory, but valuable as a means to illustrate is. We know that a spinning top that
is raised and is not subject to external forces, endeavor is to maintain its direction in space.
Our Earth is such a roundabout in powerful measuring.

Floating freely in the room he would be the direction of its rotation
axis is not .

Change In reality, the Earth's axis describes a cone at a slower pace to the normal the Earth's
orbital plane (ecliptic). Figure 8 shows the Earth's axis with drawn into its orbit around the
sun and indicates their position on the extreme right of the cone, which the Earth's axis in
the course of many rounds describes. The cone is first run through completely in 26 000 years
Each year, the angular displacement 50 seconds (precession of the equinoxes). After the ordinary
conception does this shift the Earth's axis from the pull of the Sun to the equatorial bead swollen
her terrestrial body, so therefore, that the earth is not force-free, but one influenced by the
solar gravity is centrifugal.
  He said that they had come hout there
that evening to tell the Glad Tidings of Great Joy to hall those dear people that he saw standing
around.  The members of the Shining Light Chapel--to which he himself belonged--was the organizers
of that meeting but it was not a sectarian meeting, for he was 'appy to say that several members
of other denominations was there co-operating with them in the good work.  As he continued
his address, Rushton repeatedly referred to the individuals who composed the crowd as his 'Brothers
and Sisters' and, strange to say, nobody laughed.

Barrington looked round upon the 'Brothers': Mr Sweater, resplendent in a new silk hat of the
latest fashion, and a fur-trimmed overcoat. The Rev. Mr Bosher, Vicar of the Church of the
Whited Sepulchre, Mr Grinder--one of the churchwardens at the same place of alleged worship--both
dressed in broadcloth and fine linen and glossy silk hats, while their general appearance testified
to the fact that they had fared sumptuously for many days.  Mr Didlum, Mrs Starvem, Mr Dauber,
Mr Botchit, Mr Smeeriton, and Mr Leavit.

And in the midst was the Rev. John Starr, doing the work for which he was paid.

As he stood there in the forefront of this company, there was nothing in his refined and comely
exterior to indicate that his real function was to pander to and flatter them; to invest with
an air of respectability and rectitude the abominably selfish lives of the gang of swindlers,
slave-drivers and petty tyrants who formed the majority of the congregation of the Shining
Light Chapel.

He was doing the work for which he was paid.  By the mere fact of his presence there, condoning
and justifying the crimes of these typical representatives of that despicable class whose greed
and inhumanity have made the earth into a hell.

There was also a number of 'respectable', well-dressed people who looked as if they could do
with a good meal, and a couple of shabbily dressed, poverty-stricken-looking individuals who
seemed rather out of place in the glittering throng.

The remainder of the Brothers consisted of half-starved, pale-faced working men and women,
most of them dressed in other people's cast-off clothing, and with broken, patched-up, leaky
boots on their feet.

Rushton having concluded his address, Didlum stepped forward to give out the words of the hymn
the former had quoted at the conclusion of his remarks:

        'Oh, come and jine this 'oly band,
        And hon to glory go.'

Strange and incredible as it may appear to the reader, although none of them ever did any of
the things Jesus said, the people who were conducting this meeting had the effrontery to claim
to be followers of Christ--Christians!  For one is your master, even Christ, and ye are all
brethren.'  But nearly all these alleged followers of the humble Workman of Nazareth claimed
to be other people's masters or mistresses.  And as for being all brethren, whilst most of
these were arrayed in broadcloth and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day, they knew
that all around them thousands of those they hypocritically called their 'brethren', men, women
and little children, were slowly perishing of hunger and cold; and we have already seen how
much brotherhood existed between Sweater and Rushton and the miserable, half-starved wretches
in their employment.

Whenever they were asked why they did not practise the things Jesus preached, they replied
that it is impossible to do so! And they procured this lantern and wrote a text upon it: 'Be
not deceived, God is not mocked.'

They stigmatized as 'infidels' all those who differed from them, forgetting that the only real
infidels are those who are systematically false and unfaithful to the Master they pretend to
love and serve.

Grinder, having a slight cold, had not spoken this evening, but several other infidels, including
Sweater, Didlum, Bosher, and Starr, had addressed the meeting, making a special appeal to the
working people, of whom the majority of the crowd was composed, to give up all the vain pleasures
of the world in which they at present indulged, and, as Rushton had eloquently put it at the
close of his remarks:

        'Come and jine this 'Oly band and hon to glory go!'

As Didlum finished reading out the words, the lady at the harmonium struck up the tune of the
hymns, and the disciples all joined in the singing:

        'Oh, come and join this 'oly band and hon to glory go.'

During the singing certain of the disciples went about amongst the crowd distributing tracts.
Presently one of them offered one to Barrington and as the latter looked at the man he saw
that it was Slyme, who also recognized him at the same instant and greeted him by name.  Barrington
made no reply except to decline the tract:

'I don't want that--from you,' he said contemptuously.

Slyme turned red.  'Oh, I know what you're thinking of,' he said after a pause and speaking
in an injured tone; 'but you shouldn't judge anyone too hard.  It wasn't only my fault, and
you don't know 'ow much I've suffered for it.  If it 'adn't been for the Lord, I believe I
should 'ave drownded myself.'

Barrington made no answer and Slyme slunk off, and when the hymn was finished Brother Sweater
stood forth and gave all those present a hearty invitation to attend the services to be held
during the ensuing week at the Chapel of the Shining Light.  He invited them there specially,
of course, because it was the place with which he was himself connected, but he entreated and
begged of them even if they would not come there to go Somewhere; there were plenty of other
places of worship in the town; in fact, there was one at the corner of nearly every street.
Those who did not fancy the services at the Shining Light could go to the Church of the Whited
Sepulchre, but he really did hope that all those dear people whom he saw standing round would
go Somewhere.

A short prayer from Bosher closed the meeting, and now the reason for the presence of the two
poverty-stricken-looking shabbily dressed disciples was made manifest, for while the better
dressed and therefore more respectable Brothers were shaking hands with and grinning at each
other or hovering round the two clergymen and Mr Sweater, these two poor wretches carried away
the harmonium and the lantern, together with the hymn books and what remained of the tracts.
As Barrington hurried off to catch the train one of the 'Followers' gave him a card which he
read by the light of a street lamp--

                   Come and join the Brotherhood
                    at the Shining Light Chapel
                                PSA
                    Every Sunday at 3 o'clock.
                   Let Brotherly Love Continue.
                 'Oh come and join this Holy Band
                        and on to Glory go.'

Barrington thought he would, rather go to hell--if there were such a place--with some decent
people, than share 'glory' with a crew like this.

Nora sat sewing by the fireside in the front room, with the baby asleep in her lap.  Owen was
reclining in the deck-chair opposite. They had both been rather silent and thoughtful since
Barrington's departure. It was mainly by their efforts that the reconciliation between Easton
and Ruth had been effected and they had been so desirous of accomplishing that result that
they had not given much thought to their own position.

'I feel that I could not bear to part with her for anything now,' said Nora at last breaking
the long silence, 'and Frankie is so fond of her too.  But all the same I can't feel happy
about it when I think how ill you are.'

'Oh, I shall be all right when the weather gets a little warmer,' said Owen, affecting a cheerfulness
he did not feel.  'We have always pulled through somehow or other; the poor little thing is
not going to make much difference, and she'll be as well off with us as she would have been
if Ruth had not gone back.'

As he spoke he leaned over and touched the hand of the sleeping child and the little fingers
closed round one of his with a clutch that sent a thrill all through him.  As he looked at
this little helpless, dependent creature, he realized with a kind of thankfulness that he would
never have the heart to carry out the dreadful project he had sometimes entertained in hours
of despondency.

'We've always got through somehow or other,' he repeated, 'and we'll do so still.'

Presently they heard Frankie's footsteps ascending the stairs and a moment afterwards the boy
entered the room.

'We have to look out of the window and wave to Mr Barrington when his train goes over the bridge,'
he cried breathlessly.  'And he's sent this letter.  Open the window, quick, Dad, or it may
be too late.'

'There's plenty of time yet,' replied Owen, smiling at the boy's impetuosity.  'Nearly twenty
minutes.  We don't want the window open all that time.  It's only a quarter to eight by our
clock now, and that's five minutes fast.'

However, so as to make quite certain that the train should not run past unnoticed, Frankie
pulled up the blind and, rubbing the steam off the glass, took up his station at the window
to watch for its coming, while Owen opened the letter:

'Dear Owen,

'Enclosed you will find two bank-notes, one for ten pounds and the other for five.  The first
I beg you will accept from me for yourself in the same spirit that I offer it, and as I would
accept it from you if our positions were reversed.  If I were in need, I know that you would
willingly share with me whatever you had and I could not hurt you by refusing.  The other note
I want you to change tomorrow morning. Give three pounds of it to Mrs Linden and the remainder
to Bert White's mother.

'Wishing you all a happy Xmas and hoping to find you well and eager for the fray when I come
back in the spring,

                             'Yours for the cause,

                                                  'George Barrington.'

Owen read it over two or three times before he could properly understand it and then, without
a word of comment--for he could not have spoken at that moment to save his life--he passed
it to Nora, who felt, as she read it in her turn, as if a great burden had been lifted from
her heart. All the undefined terror of the future faded away as she thought of all this small
piece of paper made possible.

Meanwhile, Frankie, at the window, was straining his eyes in the direction of the station.

'Don't you think we'd better have the window open now, Dad?' he said at last as the clock struck
eight.  'The steam keeps coming on the glass as fast as I wipe it off and I can't see out properly.
I'm sure it's nearly time now; p'raps our clock isn't as fast as you think it is.'

'All right, we'll have it open now, so as to be on the safe side,' said Owen as he stood up
and raised the sash, and Nora, having wrapped the child up in a shawl, joined them at the window.

'It can't be much longer now, you know,' said Frankie.  'The line's clear.  They turned the
red light off the signal just before you opened the window.'

In a very few minutes they heard the whistle of the locomotive as it drew out of the station,
then, an instant before the engine itself came into sight round the bend, the brightly polished
rails were illuminated, shining like burnished gold in the glare of its headlight; a few seconds
afterwards the train emerged into view, gathering speed as it came along the short stretch
of straight way, and a moment later it thundered across the bridge. In order to determine the so-called * * Sekete, was half the length of the base side by the
Pyramid height and dividing the resulting quotient, the number of parts of the horizontal divided
leg of the angle multiplied Maassen.  Soon there remained nothing
visible of the train except the lights at the rear of the guard's van, and presently even those
vanished into the surrounding darkness.

The lofty window at which they were standing overlooked several of the adjacent streets and
a great part of the town. On the other side of the road were several empty houses, bristling
with different house agents' advertisement boards and bills.  About twenty yards away, the
shop formerly tenanted by Mr Smallman, the grocer, who had become bankrupt two or three months
previously, was also plastered with similar decorations.  A little further on, at the opposite
corner, were the premises of the Monopole Provision Stores, where brilliant lights were just
being extinguished, for they, like most of the other shops, were closing their premises for
the night, and the streets took on a more cheerless air as one after another their lights disappeared. But this difference affects only the higher specified number of decimal places 50 seconds.
As a criterion for or against Einstein's gravitational theory, then this Phenomenon can not
be used, especially not because of their practical utilization Any other knowledge of the mass of
the moon would be required.

Accordingly, we turn from the sun, moon and stars to our position on the rotating earth back.
According to our faith each position of relativity is right, even the one on a rotating motion
system. The laws of nature apply to this position as well as for each other when we have taken
only sufficiently universal. Yes, there arises Question: What does rotate at all? Does it make
sense to speak of the rotating earth, when the sun and fixed stars were not there, where we perceive
the earth's rotation but only can? Would not again assume an absolute space or ether, against
the the rotation is thought that if we of the Earth's rotation absolutely, without reference to the
stars, wanted to talk? But what will the consequences of the Earth's rotation, the centrifugal
forces that We in the rotation of the Foucault pendulum, or we observe the flattening of the earth?
If the Earth's rotation can be considered only relative to the stars, only by the presence external
masses is possible, so the centrifugal forces of the earth's rotation, its existence only due
to the presence of the stars, they must as interactions between these and the masses of the earth
be considered.

Until this fundamental conclusion was arrived Mach. Through him, he has paved the way for Einstein.
Mach and Einstein asked a question they answered. He answered at once with his Answer to the riddle
of gravitation. The gravitational force proved to be a sham, de its basis in the space structure. The
centrifugal forces are apparent forces or inertial forces, would have to Newton grounded in
the absolute nature of rotation. T his s why we can not accept. But we are looking at the position
of the rotated Reference system. If external masses and events are available, the rotation
does not participate, they migrate to the reference system. As they turn a distortion of the
Space structure condition, de rotates with them, the curvature of space appears from the twisted
system different than without rotation.
It was built in a verdant valley.  Looking west, north or east from the vicinity of the fountain
on the Grand Parade in the centre of the town, one saw a succession of pine-clad hills.  To
the south, as far as the eye could see, stretched a vast, cultivated plain that extended to
the south coast, one hundred miles away.  The climate was supposed to be cool in summer and
mild in winter.

The town proper nestled in the valley: to the west, the most beautiful and sheltered part was
the suburb of Irene: here were the homes of the wealthy residents and prosperous tradespeople,
and numerous boarding-houses for the accommodation of well-to-do visitors.  East, the town
extended up the slope to the top of the hill and down the other side to the suburb of Windley,
where the majority of the working classes lived.

Years ago, when the facilities for foreign travel were fewer and more costly, Mugsborough was
a favourite resort of the upper classes, but of late years most of these patriots have adopted
the practice of going on the Continent to spend the money they obtain from the working people
of England.  However, Mugsborough still retained some semblance of prosperity.  Summer or winter
the place was usually fairly full of what were called good-class visitors, either holidaymakers
or invalids.  The Grand Parade was generally crowded with well-dressed people and carriages.
The shops appeared to be well-patronized and at the time of our story an air of prosperity
pervaded the town.  But this fair outward appearance was deceitful.  The town was really a
vast whited sepulchre; for notwithstanding the natural advantages of the place the majority
of the inhabitants existed in a state of perpetual poverty which in many cases bordered on
destitution.  One of the reasons for this was that a great part of the incomes of the tradespeople
and boarding-house-keepers and about a third of the wages of the working classes were paid
away as rent and rates.

For years the Corporation had been borrowing money for necessary public works and improvements,
and as the indebtedness of the town increased the rates rose in proportion, because the only
works and services undertaken by the Council were such as did not yield revenue. Every public
service capable of returning direct profit was in the hands of private companies, and the shares
of the private companies were in the hands of the members of the Corporation, and the members
of the Corporation were in the hands of the four most able and intellectual of their number,
Councillors Sweater, Rushton, Didlum and Grinder, each of whom was a director of one or more
of the numerous companies which battened on the town. The Echo,
they have often found in England and France proves how powerful today the idea of ​​force policy,
rejection of all reason and all moral considerations tag prevails in the minds of the victors.
  This institution had grown with the place; most of the original
promoters were dead, and the greater number of the present shareholders were non-residents;
although they lived on the town, they did not live in it.

The profits made by this Company were so great that, being prevented by law from paying a larger
dividend than ten percent, they frequently found it a difficult matter to decide what to do
with the money.  They paid the Directors and principal officials--themselves shareholders,
of course--enormous salaries. Here in the east and southeast
open up our economic activity pioneering new continents, rich natural areas. If they use common sense
and broad-minded consideration of the interests of those countries and Peoples themselves
are developed, thereby opening up a new future for the German economy. For the correctness of these
considerations, the fact that foreign capital in large Extent the German industry fertilize,
shows the commercial interest that everywhere in the world is to our economy. Let us ensure that this
interest no interest the "vultures" at the exploitation of an old sound, formerly thriving trading
company is!


Of course, even now it was still possible to buy out the Company, but it was supposed that
it would cost so much that it was generally considered to be impracticable.

Although they declined to buy the Gas works, the people of Mugsborough had to buy the gas.
The amount paid by the municipality to the Company for the public lighting of the town loomed
large in the accounts of the Council. This is only possible if we harness all the forces, political freedom and to preserve the
unity of the empire. If the means to do the hard work of the whole People is good! we must take
upon ourselves..