The Duchess was rough, but she was very good-natured. She had contrived that the two lovers
should be brought into the same house, and did not doubt at all but what they would be able
to adjust their own little differences when they met. Her experiences of the world had certainly
made her more alive to the material prospects than to the delicate aroma of a love adventure.
She had been greatly knocked about herself, and the material prospects had come uppermost.
But all that had happened to her had tended to open her hand to other people, and had enabled
her to be good-natured with delight, even when she knew that her friends imposed upon her.
She didn't care much for Laurence Fitzgibbon; but when she was told that the lady with money
would not consent to marry the aristocratic pauper except on condition that she should be received
at Matching, the Duchess at once gave the invitation. And now, though she couldn't go into
the "fal-lallery,"--as she called it, to Madame Goesler,--of settling a meeting between two
young people who had fallen out, she worked hard till she accomplished something perhaps more
important to their future happiness. "Plantagenet," she said, "there can be no objection to
your cousin having that money."

"My dear!"

"Oh come; you must remember about Adelaide, and that young man who is coming here to-day."

"You told me that Adelaide is to be married. I don't know anything about the young man."

"His name is Maule, and he is a gentleman, and all that. Some day when his father dies he'll
have a small property somewhere."

"I hope he has a profession."

"No, he has not. I told you all that before."

"If he has nothing at all, Glencora, why did he ask a young lady to marry him?"

"Oh, dear; what's the good of going into all that? He has got something. They'll do immensely
well, if you'll only listen. She is your first cousin."

"Of course she is," said Plantagenet, lifting up his hand to his hair.

"And you are bound to do something for her."

"No; I am not bound. But I'm very willing,--if you wish it. Put the thing on a right footing."

"I hate footings,--that is, right footings. We can manage this without taking money out of
your pocket."

"My dear Glencora, if I am to give my cousin money I shall do so by putting my hand into my
own pocket in preference to that of any other person."

"Madame Goesler says that she'll sign all the papers about the Duke's legacy,--the money, I
mean,--if she may be allowed to make it over to the Duke's niece."

"Of course Madame Goesler may do what she likes with her own. I cannot hinder her. But I would
rather that you should not interfere. Twenty-five thousand pounds is a very serious sum of money."

"You won't take it."

"Certainly not."

"Nor will Madame Goesler; and therefore there can be no reason why these young people should
not have it. Of course Adelaide being the Duke's niece does make a difference. Why else should
I care about it? She is nothing to me,--and as for him, I shouldn't know him again if I were
to meet him in the street."

And so the thing was settled. The Duke was powerless against the energy of his wife, and the
lawyer was instructed that Madame Goesler would take the proper steps for putting herself into
possession of the Duke's legacy,--as far as the money was concerned,--with the view of transferring
it to the Duke's niece, Miss Adelaide Palliser. As for the diamonds, the difficulty could not
be solved. Madame Goesler still refused to take them, and desired her lawyer to instruct her
as to the form by which she could most thoroughly and conclusively renounce that legacy.

Gerard Maule had his ideas about the meeting which would of course take place at Matching.
He would not, he thought, have been asked there had it not been intended that he should marry
Adelaide. He did not care much for the grandeur of the Duke and Duchess, but he was conscious
of certain profitable advantages which might accrue from such an acknowledgement of his position
from the great relatives of his intended bride. It would be something to be married from the
house of the Duchess, and to receive his wife from the Duke's hand. His father would probably
be driven to acquiesce, and people who were almost omnipotent in the world would at any rate
give him a start. He expected no money; nor did he possess that character, whether it be good
or bad, which is given to such expectation. But there would be encouragement, and the thing
would probably be done. As for the meeting,--he would take her in his arms if he found her
alone, and beg her pardon for that cross word about Boulogne. He would assure her that Boulogne
itself would be a heaven to him if she were with him,--and he thought that she would believe
him. When he reached the house he was asked into a room in which a lot of people were playing
billiards or crowded round a billiard-table. The Chilterns were gone, and he was at first ill
at ease, finding no friend. Madame Goesler, who had met him at Harrington, came up to him,
and told him that the Duchess would be there directly, and then Phineas, who had been playing
at the moment of his entrance, shook hands with him, and said a word or two about the Chilterns.
"I was so delighted to hear of your acquittal," said Maule.

"We never talk about that now," said Phineas, going back to his stroke. Adelaide Palliser was
not present, and the difficulty of the meeting had not yet been encountered. They all remained
in the billiard-room till it was time for the ladies to dress, and Adelaide had not yet ventured
to show herself. Somebody offered to take him to his room, and he was conducted upstairs, and
told that they dined at eight,--but nothing had been arranged. Nobody had as yet mentioned
her name to him. Surely it could not be that she had gone away when she heard that he was coming,
and that she was really determined to make the quarrel perpetual? He had three quarters of
an hour in which to get ready for dinner, and he felt himself to be uncomfortable and out of
his element. He had been sent to his chamber prematurely, because nobody had known what to
do with him; and he wished himself back in London. The Duchess, no doubt, had intended to be
good-natured, but she had made a mistake. So he sat by his open window, and looked out on the
ruins of the old Priory, which were close to the house, and wondered why he mightn't have been
allowed to wander about the garden instead of being shut up there in a bedroom. But he felt
that it would be unwise to attempt any escape now. He would meet the Duke or the Duchess, or
perhaps Adelaide herself, in some of the passages,--and there would be an embarrassment. So
he dawdled away the time, looking out of the window as he dressed, and descended to the drawing
room at eight o'clock. He shook hands with the Duke, and was welcomed by the Duchess, and then
glanced round the room. There she was, seated on a sofa between two other ladies,--of whom
one was his friend, Madame Goesler. It was essentially necessary that he should notice her
in some way, and he walked up to her, and offered her his hand. It was impossible that he should
allude to what was past, and he merely muttered something as he stood over her. She had blushed
up to her eyes, and was absolutely dumb. "Mr. Maule, perhaps you'll take our cousin Adelaide
out to dinner," said the Duchess, a moment afterwards, whispering in his ear.

"Have you forgiven me?" he said to her, as they passed from one room to the other.

"I will,--if you care to be forgiven." The Duchess had been quite right, and the quarrel was
all over without any arrangement.

On the following morning he was allowed to walk about the grounds without any impediment, and
to visit the ruins which had looked so charming to him from the window. Nor was he alone. Miss
Palliser was now by no means anxious as she had been yesterday to keep out of the way, and
was willingly persuaded to show him all the beauties of the place.

"I shouldn't have said what I did, I know," pleaded Maule.

"Never mind it now, Gerard."

"I mean about going to Boulogne."

"It did sound so melancholy."

"But I only meant that we should have to be very careful how we lived. I don't know quite whether
I am so good at being careful about money as a fellow ought to be."

"You must take a lesson from me, sir."

"I have sent the horses to Tattersall's, he said in a tone that was almost funereal.

"What!--already?"

"I gave the order yesterday. They are to be sold,--I don't know when. They won't fetch anything.
They never do. One always buys bad horses there for a lot of money, and sells good ones for
nothing. Where the difference goes to I never could make out."

"I suppose the man gets it who sells them."

"No; he don't. The fellows get it who have their eyes open. My eyes never were open,--except
as far as seeing you went."

"Perhaps if you had opened them wider you wouldn't have to go to--"

"Don't, Adelaide. But, as I was saying about the horses, when they're sold of course the bills
won't go on. And I suppose things will come right. I don't owe so very much."

"I've got something to tell you," she said.

"What about?"

"You're to see my cousin to-day at two o'clock."

"The Duke?"

"Yes,--the Duke; and he has got a proposition. I don't know that you need sell your horses,
as it seems to make you so very unhappy. You remember Madame Goesler?"

"Of course I do. She was at Harrington."

"There's something about a legacy which I can't understand at all. It is ever so much money,
and it did belong to the old Duke. They say it is to be mine,--or yours rather, if we should
ever be married. And then you know, Gerard, perhaps, after all, you needn't go to Boulogne."
So she took her revenge, and he had his as he pressed his arm round her waist and kissed her
among the ruins of the old Priory.

Precisely at two to the moment he had his interview with the Duke, and very disagreeable it
was to both of them. The Duke was bound to explain that the magnificent present which was being
made to his cousin was a gift, not from him, but from Madame Goesler; and, though he was intent
on making this as plain as possible, he did not like the task. "The truth is, Mr. Maule, that
Madame Goesler is unwilling, for reasons with which I need not trouble you, to take the legacy
which was left to her by my uncle. I think her reasons to be insufficient, but it is a matter
in which she must, of course, judge for herself. She has decided,--very much, I fear, at my
wife's instigation, which I must own I regret,--to give the money to one of our family, and
has been pleased to say that my cousin Adelaide shall be the recipient of her bounty. I have
nothing to do with it. I cannot stop her generosity if I would, nor can I say that my cousin
ought to refuse it. Adelaide will have the entire sum as her fortune, short of the legacy duty,
which, as you are probably aware, will be ten per cent., as Madame Goesler was not related
to my uncle. The money will, of course, be settled on my cousin and on her children. I believe
that will be all I shall have to say, except that Lady Glencora,--the Duchess, I mean,--wishes
that Adelaide should be married from our house. If this be so I shall, of course, hope to have
the honour of giving my cousin away." The Duke was by no means a pompous man, and probably
there was no man in England of so high rank who thought so little of his rank. But he was stiff
and somewhat ungainly, and the task which he was called upon to execute had been very disagreeable
to him. He bowed when he had finished his speech, and Gerard Maule felt himself bound to go,
almost without expressing his thanks.

"My dear Mr. Maule," said Madame Goesler, "you literally must not say a word to me about it.
The money was not mine, and under no circumstances would or could be mine. I have given nothing,
and could not have presumed to make such a present. The money, I take it, does undoubtedly
belong to the present Duke, and, as he does not want it, it is very natural that it should
go to his cousin. I trust that you may both live to enjoy it long, but I cannot allow any thanks
to be given to me by either of you."

After that he tried the Duchess, who was somewhat more gracious. "The truth is, Mr. Maule,
you are a very lucky man to find twenty thousand pounds and more going begging about the country
in that way."

"Indeed I am, Duchess."

"And Adelaide is lucky, too, for I doubt whether either of you are given to any very penetrating
economies. I am told that you like hunting."

"I have sent my horses to Tattersall's."

"There is enough now for a little hunting, I suppose, unless you have a dozen children. And
now you and Adelaide must settle when it's to be. I hate things to be delayed. People go on
quarrelling and fancying this and that, and thinking that the world is full of romance and
poetry. When they get married they know better."

"I hope the romance and poetry do not all vanish."

"Romance and poetry are for the most part lies, Mr. Maule, and are very apt to bring people
into difficulty. I have seen something of them in my time, and I much prefer downright honest
figures. Two and two make four; idleness is the root of all evil; love your neighbour like
yourself, and the rest of it. Pray remember that Adelaide is to be married from here, and that
we shall be very happy that you should make every use you like of our house until then."

We may so far anticipate in our story as to say that Adelaide Palliser and Gerard Maule were
married from Matching Priory at Matching Church early in that October, and that as far as the
coming winter was concerned, there certainly was no hunting for the gentleman. They went to
Naples instead of Boulogne, and there remained till the warm weather came in the following
spring. Nor was that peremptory sale at Tattersall's countermanded as regarded any of the horses.
What prices were realised the present writer has never been able to ascertain.

CHAPTER LXXVII

Phineas Finn's Success

When Phineas Finn had been about a week at Matching, he received a letter, or rather a very
short note, from the Prime Minister, asking him to go up to London; and on the same day the
Duke of Omnium spoke to him on the subject of the letter. "You are going up to see Mr. Gresham.
Mr. Gresham has written to me, and I hope that we shall be able to congratulate ourselves in
having your assistance next Session." Phineas declared that he had no idea whatever of Mr.
Gresham's object in summoning him up to London. "I have his permission to inform you that he
wishes you to accept office." Phineas felt that he was becoming very red in the face, but he
did not attempt to make any reply on the spur of the moment. "Mr. Gresham thinks it well that
so much should be said to you before you see him, in order that you may turn the matter over
in your own mind. He would have written to you probably, making the offer at once, had it not
been that there must be various changes, and that one man's place must depend on another. You
will go, I suppose."

"Yes; I shall go, certainly. I shall be in London this evening."

"I will take care that a carriage is ready for you. I do not presume to advise, Mr. Finn, but
I hope that there need be no doubt as to your joining us." Phineas was somewhat confounded,
and did not know the Duke well enough to give expression to his thoughts at the moment. "Of
course you will return to us, Mr. Finn." Phineas said that he would return and trespass on
the Duke's hospitality for yet a few days. He was quite resolved that something must be said
to Madame Goesler before he left the roof under which she was living. In the course of the
autumn she purposed, as she had told him, to go to Vienna, and to remain there almost up to
Christmas. Whatever there might be to be said should be said at any rate before that.

He did speak a few words to her before his journey to London, but in those words there was
no allusion made to the great subject which must be discussed between them. "I am going up
to London," he said.

"So the Duchess tells me."

"Mr. Gresham has sent for me,--meaning, I suppose, to offer me the place which he would not
give me while that poor man was alive."

"And you will accept it of course, Mr. Finn?"

"I am not at all so sure of that."

"But you will. You must. You will hardly be so foolish as to let the peevish animosity of an
ill-conditioned man prejudice your prospects even after his death."

"It will not be any remembrance of Mr. Bonteen that will induce me to refuse."

"It will be the same thing;--rancour against Mr. Gresham because he had allowed the other man's
counsel to prevail with him. The action of no individual man should be to you of sufficient
consequence to guide your conduct. If you accept office, you should not take it as a favour
conferred by the Prime Minister; nor if you refuse it, should you do so from personal feelings
in regard to him. If he selects you, he is presumed to do so because he finds that your services
will be valuable to the country."

"He does so because he thinks that I should be safe to vote for him."

"That may be so, or not. You can't read his bosom quite distinctly;--but you may read your
own. If you go into office you become the servant of the country,--not his servant, and should
assume his motive in selecting you to be the same as your own in submitting to the selection.
Your foot must be on the ladder before you can get to the top of it."

"The ladder is so crooked."

"Is it more crooked now than it was three years ago;--worse than it was six months ago, when
you and all your friends looked upon it as certain that you would be employed? There is nothing,
Mr. Finn, that a man should fear so much as some twist in his convictions arising from a personal
accident to himself. When we heard that the Devil in his sickness wanted to be a monk, we never
thought that he would become a saint in glory. When a man who has been rejected by a lady expresses
a generally ill opinion of the sex, we are apt to ascribe his opinions to disappointment rather
than to judgment. A man falls and breaks his leg at a fence, and cannot be induced to ride
again,--not because he thinks the amusement to be dangerous, but because he cannot keep his
mind from dwelling on the hardship that has befallen himself. In all such cases self-consciousness
gets the better of the judgment."

"You think it will be so with me?"

"I shall think so if you now refuse--because of the misfortune which befell you--that which
I know you were most desirous of possessing before that accident. To tell you the truth, Mr.
Finn, I wish Mr. Gresham had delayed his offer till the winter."

"And why?"

"Because by that time you will have recovered your health. Your mind now is morbid, and out
of tune."

"There was something to make it so, Madame Goesler."

"God knows there was; and the necessity which lay upon you of bearing a bold front during those
long and terrible weeks of course consumed your strength. The wonder is that the fibres of
your mind should have retained any of their elasticity after such an ordeal. But as you are
so strong, it would be a pity that you should not be strong altogether. This thing that is
now to be offered to you is what you have always desired."

"A man may have always desired that which is worthless."

"You tried it once, and did not find it worthless. You found yourself able to do good work
when you were in office. If I remember right, you did not give it up then because it was irksome
to you, or contemptible, or, as you say, worthless; but from difference of opinion on some
political question. You can always do that again."

"A man is not fit for office who is prone to do so."

"Then do not you be prone. It means success or failure in the profession which you have chosen,
and I shall greatly regret to see you damage your chance of success by yielding to scruples
which have come upon you when you are hardly as yet yourself."

She had spoken to him very plainly, and he had found it to be impossible to answer her, and
yet she had hardly touched the motives by which he believed himself to be actuated. As he made
his journey up to London he thought very much of her words. There had been nothing said between
them about money. No allusion had been made to the salary of the office which would be offered
to him, or to the terrible shortness of his own means of living. He knew well enough himself
that he must take some final step in life, or very shortly return into absolute obscurity.
This woman who had been so strongly advising him to take a certain course as to his future
life, was very rich;--and he had fully decided that he would sooner or later ask her to be
his wife. He knew well that all her friends regarded their marriage as certain. The Duchess
had almost told him so in as many words. Lady Chiltern, who was much more to him than the Duchess,
had assured him that if he should have a wife to bring with him to Harrington, the wife would
be welcome. Of what other wife could Lady Chiltern have thought? Laurence Fitzgibbon, when
congratulated on his own marriage, had returned counter congratulations. Mr. Low had said that
it would of course come to pass. Even Mrs. Bunce had hinted at it, suggesting that she would
lose her lodger and be a wretched woman. All the world had heard of the journey to Prague,
and all the world expected the marriage. And he had come to love the woman with excessive affection,
day by day, ever since the renewal of their intimacy at Broughton Spinnies. His mind was quite
made up;--but he was by no means sure of her mind as the rest of the world might be. He knew
of her, what nobody else in all the world knew,--except himself. In that former period of his
life, on which he now sometimes looked back as though it had been passed in another world,
this woman had offered her hand and fortune to him. She had done so in the enthusiasm of her
love, knowing his ambition and knowing his poverty, and believing that her wealth was necessary
to the success of his career in life. He had refused the offer,--and they had parted without
a word. Now they had come together again, and she was certainly among the dearest of his friends.
Had she not taken that wondrous journey to Prague in his behalf, and been the first among those
who had striven,--and had striven at last successfully,--to save his neck from the halter?
Dear to her! He knew well as he sat with his eyes closed in the railway carriage that he must
be dear to her! But might it not well be that she had resolved that friendship should take
the place of love? And was it not compatible with her nature,--with all human nature,--that
in spite of her regard for him she should choose to be revenged for the evil which had befallen
her, when she offered her hand in vain? She must know by this time that he intended to throw
himself at her feet; and would hardly have advised him as she had done as to the necessity
of following up that success which had hitherto been so essential to him, had she intended
to give him all that she had once offered him before. It might well be that Lady Chiltern,
and even the Duchess, should be mistaken. Marie Goesler was not a woman, he thought, to reveal
the deeper purposes of her life to any such friend as the Duchess of Omnium.

Of his own feelings in regard to the offer which was about to be made to him he had hardly
succeeded in making her understand anything. That a change had come upon himself was certain,
but he did not at all believe that it had sprung from any weakness caused by his sufferings
in regard to the murder. He rather believed that he had become stronger than weaker from all
that he had endured. He had learned when he was younger,--some years back,--to regard the political
service of his country as a profession in which a man possessed of certain gifts might earn
his bread with more gratification to himself than in any other. The work would be hard, and
the emolument only intermittent; but the service would in itself be pleasant; and the rewards
of that service,--should he be so successful as to obtain reward,--would be dearer to him than
anything which could accrue to him from other labours. To sit in the Cabinet for one Session
would, he then thought, be more to him than to preside over the Court of Queen's Bench as long
as did Lord Mansfield. But during the last few months a change had crept across his dream,--which
he recognized but could hardly analyse. He had seen a man whom he despised promoted, and the
place to which the man had been exalted had at once become contemptible in his eyes. And there
had been quarrels and jangling, and the speaking of evil words between men who should have
been quiet and dignified. No doubt Madame Goesler was right in attributing the revulsion in
his hopes to Mr. Bonteen and Mr. Bonteen's enmity; but Phineas Finn himself did not know that
it was so.

He arrived in town in the evening, and his appointment with Mr. Gresham was for the following
morning. He breakfasted at his club, and there he received the following letter from Lady Laura
Kennedy:--

   Saulsby 28th August, 18--

   MY DEAR PHINEAS,

   I have just received a letter from Barrington in which he
   tells me that Mr. Gresham is going to offer you your old
   place at the Colonies. He says that Lord Fawn has been so
   upset by this affair of Lady Eustace's husband, that he
   is obliged to resign and go abroad. [This was the first
   intimation that Phineas had heard of the nature of the
   office to be offered to him.--] But Barrington goes on to
   say that he thinks you won't accept Mr. Gresham's offer,
   and he asks me to write to you. Can this possibly be true?
   Barrington writes most kindly,--with true friendship,--and
   is most anxious for you to join. But he thinks that you
   are angry with Mr. Gresham because he passed you over
   before, and that you will not forgive him for having
   yielded to Mr. Bonteen. I can hardly believe this
   possible. Surely you will not allow the shade of that
   unfortunate man to blight your prospects? And, after all,
   of what matter to you is the friendship or enmity of Mr.
   Gresham? You have to assert yourself, to make your own
   way, to use your own opportunities, and to fight your own
   battle without reference to the feelings of individuals.
   Men act together in office constantly, and with constancy,
   who are known to hate each other. When there are so many
   to get what is going, and so little to be given, of course
   there will be struggling and trampling. I have no doubt
   that Lord Cantrip has made a point of this with Mr.
   Gresham;--has in point of fact insisted upon it. If so,
   you are lucky to have such an ally as Lord Cantrip. He and
   Mr. Gresham are, as you know, sworn friends, and if you
   get on well with the one you certainly may with the other
   also. Pray do not refuse without asking for time to think
   about it;--and if so, pray come here, that you may consult
   my father.

   I spent two weary weeks at Loughlinter, and then could
   stand it no longer. I have come here, and here I shall
   remain for the autumn and winter. If I can sell my
   interest in the Loughlinter property I shall do so, as I
   am sure that neither the place nor the occupation is fit
   for me. Indeed I know not what place or what occupation
   will suit me! The dreariness of the life before me is
   hardly preferable to the disappointments I have already
   endured. There seems to be nothing left for me but to
   watch my father to the end. The world would say that such
   a duty in life is fit for a widowed childless daughter;
   but to you I cannot pretend to say that my bereavements or
   misfortunes reconcile me to such a fate. I cannot cease to
   remember my age, my ambition, and I will say, my love. I
   suppose that everything is over for me,--as though I were
   an old woman, going down into the grave, but at my time
   of life I find it hard to believe that it must be so.
   And then the time of waiting may be so long! I suppose I
   could start a house in London, and get people around me
   by feeding and flattering them, and by little intrigues,
   --like that woman of whom you are so fond. It is money
   that is chiefly needed for that work, and of money I have
   enough now. And people would know at any rate who I am.
   But I could not flatter them, and I should wish the food
   to choke them if they did not please me. And you would
   not come, and if you did,--I may as well say it boldly,
   --others would not. An ill-natured sprite has been busy
   with me, which seems to deny me everything which is so
   freely granted to others.

   As for you, the world is at your feet. I dread two things
   for you,--that you should marry unworthily, and that
   you should injure your prospects in public life by an
   uncompromising stiffness. On the former subject I can say
   nothing to you. As to the latter, let me implore you to
   come down here before you decide upon anything. Of course
   you can at once accept Mr. Gresham's offer; and that is
   what you should do unless the office proposed to you be
   unworthy of you. No friend of yours will think that your
   old place at the Colonies should be rejected. But if your
   mind is still turned towards refusing, ask Mr. Gresham to
   give you three or four days for decision, and then come
   here. He cannot refuse you,--nor after all that is passed
   can you refuse me.

   Yours affectionately,

   L. K.

When he had read this letter he at once acknowledged to himself that he could not refuse her
request. He must go to Saulsby, and he must do so at once. He was about to see Mr. Gresham
immediately, --within half an hour; and as he could not expect at the most above twenty-four
hours to be allowed to him for consideration, he must go down to Saulsby on the same evening.
As he walked to the Prime Minister's house he called at a telegraph office and sent down his
message. "I will be at Saulsby by the train arriving at 7 P.M. Send to meet me." Then he went
on, and in a few minutes found himself in the presence of the great man.

The great man received him with an excellent courtesy. It is the special business of Prime
Ministers to be civil in detail, though roughness, and perhaps almost rudeness in the gross,
becomes not unfrequently a necessity of their position. To a proposed incoming subordinate
a Prime Minister is, of course, very civil, and to a retreating subordinate he is generally
more so,--unless the retreat be made under unfavourable circumstances. And to give good things
is always pleasant, unless there be a suspicion that the good thing will be thought to be not
good enough. No such suspicion as that now crossed the mind of Mr. Gresham. He had been pressed
very much by various colleagues to admit this young man into the Paradise of his government,
and had been pressed very much also to exclude him; and this had been continued till he had
come to dislike the name of the young man. He did believe that the young man had behaved badly
to Mr. Robert Kennedy, and he knew that the young man on one occasion had taken to kicking
in harness, and running a course of his own. He had decided against the young man,--very much
no doubt at the instance of Mr. Bonteen,--and he believed that in so doing he closed the Gates
of Paradise against a Peri most anxious to enter it. He now stood with the key in his hand
and the gate open,--and the seat to be allotted to the re-accepted one was that which he believed
the Peri would most gratefully fill. He began by making a little speech about Mr. Bonteen.
That was almost unavoidable. And he praised in glowing words the attitude which Phineas had
maintained during the trial. He had been delighted with the re-election at Tankerville, and
thought that the borough had done itself much honour. Then came forth his proposition. Lord
Fawn had retired, absolutely broken down by repeated examinations respecting the man in the
grey coat, and the office which Phineas had before held with so much advantage to the public,
and comfort to his immediate chief, Lord Cantrip, was there for his acceptance. Mr. Gresham
went on to express an ardent hope that he might have the benefit of Mr. Finn's services. It
was quite manifest from his manner that he did not in the least doubt the nature of the reply
which he would receive.

Phineas had come primed with his answer,--so ready with it that it did not even seem to be
the result of any hesitation at the moment. "I hope, Mr. Gresham, that you will be able to
give me a few hours to think of this." Mr. Gresham's face fell, for, in truth, he wanted an
immediate answer; and though he knew from experience that Secretaries of State, and First Lords,
and Chancellors, do demand time, and will often drive very hard bargains before they will consent
to get into harness, he considered that Under-Secretaries, Junior Lords, and the like, should
skip about as they were bidden, and take the crumbs offered them without delay. If every underling
wanted a few hours to think about it, how could any Government ever be got together? "I am
sorry to put you to inconvenience," continued Phineas, seeing that the great man was but ill-satisfied,
"but I am so placed that I cannot avail myself of your flattering kindness without some little
time for consideration."

"I had hoped that the office was one which you would like."

"So it is, Mr. Gresham."

"And I was told that you are now free from any scruples,--political scruples, I mean,--which
might make it difficult for you to support the Government."

"Since the Government came to our way of thinking,--a year or two ago,--about Tenant Right,
I mean,--I do not know that there is any subject on which I am likely to oppose it. Perhaps
I had better tell you the truth, Mr. Gresham."

"Oh, certainly," said the Prime Minister, who knew very well that on such occasions nothing
could be worse than the telling of disagreeable truths.

"When you came into office, after beating Mr. Daubeny on the Church question, no man in Parliament
was more desirous of place than I was,--and I am sure that none of the disappointed ones felt
their disappointment so keenly. It was aggravated by various circumstances,--by calumnies in
newspapers, and by personal bickerings. I need not go into that wretched story of Mr. Bonteen,
and the absurd accusation which grew out of those calumnies. These things have changed me very
much. I have a feeling that I have been ill-used,--not by you, Mr. Gresham, specially, but
by the party; and I look upon the whole question of office with altered eyes."

"In filling up the places at his disposal, a Prime Minister, Mr. Finn, has a most unenviable task."

"I can well believe it."

"When circumstances, rather than any selection of his own, indicate the future occupant of
any office, this abrogation of his patronage is the greatest blessing in the world to him."

"I can believe that also."

"I wish it were so with every office under the Crown. A Minister is rarely thanked, and would
as much look for the peace of heaven in his office as for gratitude."

"I am sorry that I should have made no exception to such thanklessness."

"We shall neither of us get on by complaining;--shall we, Mr. Finn? You can let me have an
answer perhaps by this time to-morrow."

"If an answer by telegraph will be sufficient."

"Quite sufficient. Yes or No. Nothing more will be wanted. You understand your own reasons,
no doubt, fully; but if they were stated at length they would perhaps hardly enlighten me.
Good-morning." Then as Phineas was turning his back, the Prime Minister remembered that it
behoved him as Prime Minister to repress his temper. "I shall still hope, Mr. Finn, for a favourable
answer." Had it not been for that last word Phineas would have turned again, and at once rejected
the proposition.

From Mr. Gresham's house he went by appointment to Mr. Monk's, and told him of the interview.
Mr. Monk's advice to him had been exactly the same as that given by Madame Goesler and Lady
Laura. Phineas, indeed, understood perfectly that no friend could or would give him any other
advice. "He has his troubles, too," said Mr. Monk, speaking of the Prime Minister.

"A man can hardly expect to hold such an office without trouble."

"Labour of course there must be,--though I doubt whether it is so great as that of some other
persons;--and responsibility. The amount of trouble depends on the spirit and nature of the
man. Do you remember old Lord Brock? He was never troubled. He had a triple shield,--a thick
skin, an equable temper, and perfect self-confidence. Mr. Mildmay was of a softer temper, and
would have suffered had he not been protected by the idolatry of a large class of his followers.
Mr. Gresham has no such protection. With a finer intellect than either, and a sense of patriotism
quite as keen, he has a self-consciousness which makes him sore at every point. He knows the
frailty of his temper, and yet cannot control it. And he does not understand men as did these
others. Every word from an enemy is a wound to him. Every slight from a friend is a dagger
in his side. But I can fancy that self-accusations make the cross on which he is really crucified.
He is a man to whom I would extend all my mercy, were it in my power to be merciful."

"You will hardly tell me that I should accept office under him by way of obliging him."

"Were I you I should do so,--not to oblige him, but because I know him to be an honest man."

"I care but little for honesty," said Phineas, "which is at the disposal of those who are dishonest.
What am I to think of a Minister who could allow himself to be led by Mr. Bonteen?"

CHAPTER LXXVIII

The Last Visit to Saulsby

Phineas, as he journeyed down to Saulsby, knew that he had in truth made up his mind. He was
going thither nominally that he might listen to the advice of almost his oldest political friend
before he resolved on a matter of vital importance to himself; but in truth he was making the
visit because he felt that he could not excuse himself from it without unkindness and ingratitude.
She had implored him to come, and he was bound to go, and there were tidings to be told which
he must tell. It was not only that he might give her his reasons for not becoming an Under-Secretary
of State that he went to Saulsby. He felt himself bound to inform her that he intended to ask
Marie Goesler to be his wife. He might omit to do so till he had asked the question,--and then
say nothing of what he had done should his petition be refused; but it seemed to him that there
would be cowardice in this. He was bound to treat Lady Laura as his friend in a special degree,
as something more than his sister,--and he was bound above all things to make her understand
in some plainest manner that she could be nothing more to him than such a friend. In his dealings
with her he had endeavoured always to be honest,--gentle as well as honest; but now it was
specially his duty to be honest to her. When he was young he had loved her, and had told her
so,--and she had refused him. As a friend he had been true to her ever since, but that offer
could never be repeated. And the other offer,--to the woman whom she was now accustomed to
abuse,--must be made. Should Lady Laura choose to quarrel with him it must be so; but the quarrel
should not be of his seeking.

He was quite sure that he would refuse Mr. Gresham's offer, although by doing so he would himself
throw away the very thing which he had devoted his life to acquire. In a foolish, soft moment,--as
he now confessed to himself,--he had endeavoured to obtain for his own position the sympathy
of the Minister. He had spoken of the calumnies which had hurt him, and of his sufferings when
he found himself excluded from place in consequence of the evil stories which had been told
of him. Mr. Gresham had, in fact, declined to listen to him;--had said Yes or No was all that
he required, and had gone on to explain that he would be unable to understand the reasons proposed
to be given even were he to hear them. Phineas had felt himself to be repulsed, and would at
once have shown his anger, had not the Prime Minister silenced him for the moment by a civilly-worded
repetition of the offer made.

But the offer should certainly be declined. As he told himself that it must be so, he endeavoured
to analyse the causes of this decision, but was hardly successful. He had thought that he could
explain the reasons to the Minister, but found himself incapable of explaining them to himself.
In regard to means of subsistence he was no better off now than when he began the world. He
was, indeed, without incumbrance, but was also without any means of procuring an income. For
the last twelve months he had been living on his little capital, and two years more of such
life would bring him to the end of all that he had. There was, no doubt, one view of his prospects
which was bright enough. If Marie Goesler accepted him, he need not, at any rate, look about
for the means of earning a living. But he assured himself with perfect confidence that no hope
in that direction would have any influence upon the answer he would give to Mr. Gresham. Had
not Marie Goesler herself been most urgent with him in begging him to accept the offer; and
was he not therefore justified in concluding that she at least had thought it necessary that
he should earn his bread? Would her heart be softened towards him,--would any further softening
be necessary,--by his obstinate refusal to comply with her advice? The two things had no reference
to each other,--and should be regarded by him as perfectly distinct. He would refuse Mr. Gresham's
offer,--not because he hoped that he might live in idleness on the wealth of the woman he loved,--but
because the chicaneries and intrigues of office had become distasteful to him. "I don't know
which are the falser," he said to himself, "the mock courtesies or the mock indignations of
statesmen."

He found the Earl's carriage waiting for him at the station, and thought of many former days,
as he was carried through the little town for which he had sat in Parliament, up to the house
which he had once visited in the hope of wooing Violet Effingham. The women whom he had loved
had all, at any rate, become his friends, and his thorough friendships were almost all with
women. He and Lord Chiltern regarded each other with warm affection; but there was hardly ground
for real sympathy between them. It was the same with Mr. Low and Barrington Erle. Were he to
die there would be no gap in their lives;--were they to die there would be none in his. But
with Violet Effingham,--as he still loved to call her to himself,--he thought it would be different.
When the carriage stopped at the hall door he was thinking of her rather than of Lady Laura
Kennedy.

He was shown at once to his bedroom,--the very room in which he had written the letter to Lord
Chiltern which had brought about the duel at Blankenberg. He was told that he would find Lady
Laura in the drawing-room waiting for dinner for him. The Earl had already dined.

"I am so glad you are come," said Lady Laura, welcoming him. "Papa is not very well and dined
early, but I have waited for you, of course. Of course I have. You did not suppose I would
let you sit down alone? I would not see you before you dressed because I knew that you must
be tired and hungry, and that the sooner you got down the better. Has it not been hot?"

"And so dusty! I only left Matching yesterday, and seem to have been on the railway ever since."

"Government officials have to take frequent journeys, Mr. Finn. How long will it be before
you have to go down to Scotland twice in one week, and back as often to form a Ministry? Your
next journey must be into the dining-room;--in making which will you give me your arm?"

She was, he thought, lighter in heart and pleasanter in manner than she had been since her
return from Dresden. When she had made her little joke about his future ministerial duties
the servant had been in the room, and he had not, therefore, stopped her by a serious answer.
And now she was solicitous about his dinner,--anxious that he should enjoy the good things
set before him, as is the manner of loving women, pressing him to take wine, and playing the
good hostess in all things. He smiled, and ate, and drank, and was gracious under her petting;
but he had a weight on his bosom, knowing, as he did, that he must say that before long which
would turn all her playfulness either to anger or to grief. "And who had you at Matching?"
she asked.

"Just the usual set."

"Minus the poor old Duke?"

"Yes; minus the old Duke certainly. The greatest change is in the name. Lady Glencora was so
specially Lady Glencora that she ought to have been Lady Glencora to the end. Everybody calls
her Duchess, but it does not sound half so nice."

"And is he altered?"

"Not in the least. You can trace the lines of lingering regret upon his countenance when people
be-Grace him; but that is all. There was always about him a simple dignity which made it impossible
that any one should slap him on the back; and that of course remains. He is the same Planty
Pall; but I doubt whether any man ever ventured to call him Planty Pall to his face since he
left Eton."

"The house was full, I suppose?"

"There were a great many there; among others Sir Gregory Grogram, who apologised to me for
having tried to--put an end to my career."

"Oh, Phineas!"

"And Sir Harry Coldfoot, who seemed to take some credit to himself for having allowed the jury
to acquit me. And Chiltern and his wife were there for a day or two."

"What could take Oswald there?"

"An embassy of State about the foxes. The Duke's property runs into his country. She is one
of the best women that ever lived."

"Violet?"

"And one of the best wives."

"She ought to be, for she is one of the happiest. What can she wish for that she has not got?
Was your great friend there?"

He knew well what great friend she meant. "Madame Max Goesler was there."

"I suppose so. I can never quite forgive Lady Glencora for her intimacy with that woman."

"Do not abuse her, Lady Laura."

