Two days after my removal to Bourges, Marcasse produced a document which had been drawn up
at his instance by two notaries of La Chatre. It contained the depositions of ten witnesses
to the effect that for some days before the attempted assassination, a mendicant friar had
been prowling about Varenne; that he had appeared in different places very close together;
and, notably, that he had slept at Notre-Dame de Poligny the night before the event. Marcasse
maintained that this monk was John Mauprat. Two women declared that they had thought they recognised
him either as John or Walter Mauprat, who closely resembled him. But Walter had been found
drowned the day after the capture of the keep; and the whole town of La Chatre, on the day
when Edmee was shot, had seen the Trappist engaged with the Carmelite prior from morning till
night in conducting the procession and services for the pilgrimage of Vaudevant. These depositions,
therefore, so far from being favourable to me, produced a very bad effect, and threw odium
on my defence. The Trappist conclusively proved his alibi, and the prior of the Carmelites
helped him to spread a report that I was a worthless villain. This was a time of triumph for
John Mauprat; he proclaimed aloud that he had come to deliver himself up to his natural judges
to suffer punishment for his crimes in the past; but no one could think of prosecuting such
a holy man. The fanaticism that he inspired in our eminently devout province was such that
no magistrate would have dared to brave public opinion by proceeding against him. In his own
depositions, Marcasse gave an account of the mysterious and inexplicable appearance of the
Trappist at Roche-Mauprat, the steps he had taken to obtain an interview with M. Hubert and
his daughter, his insolence in entering and terrifying them in their drawing-room, and the
efforts the Carmelite prior had made to obtain considerable sums of money from me on behalf
of this individual. All these depositions were treated as fairy tales, for Marcasse admitted
that he had not seen the Trappist in any of the places mentioned, and neither the chevalier
nor his daughter was able to give evidence. It is true that my answers to the various questions
put to me confirmed Marcasse's statements; but as I declared in all sincerity that for some
two months the Trappist had given me no cause for uneasiness or displeasure, and as I refused
to attribute the murder to him, it seemed for some days as if he would be forever reinstated
in public opinion. My lack of animosity against him did not, however, diminish that which my
judges showed against me. They made use of the arbitrary powers which magistrates had in bygone
days, especially in remote parts of the provinces, and they paralyzed all my lawyer's efforts
by a fierce haste. Several legal personages, whose names I will not menton, indulged, even
publicly, in a strain of invective against me which ought to have excluded them from any court
dealing with questions of human dignity and morality. They intrigued to induce me to confess,
and almost went so far as to promise me a favourable verdict if I at least acknowledged that
I had wounded Mademoiselle de Mauprat accidently. The scorn with which I met these overtures
alienated them altogether. A stranger to all intrigue, at a time when justice and truth could
not triumph except by intrigue, I was a victim of two redoubtable enemies, the Church and the
Law; the former I had offended in the person of the Carmelite prior; and the latter hated me
because, of the suitors whom Edmee had repulsed, the most spiteful was a man closely related
to the chief magistrate.

Nevertheless, a few honest men to whom I was almost unknown, took an interest in my case on
account of the efforts of others to make my name odious. One of them, a Monsieur E----, who
was not without influence, for he was the brother of the sheriff of the province and acquainted
with all the deputies, rendered me a service by the excellent suggestions he made for throwing
light on this complicated affair.

Patience, convinced as he was of my guilt, might have served my enemies without wishing to
do so; but he would not. He had resumed his roaming life in the woods, and, though he did not
hide, could never be found. Marcasse was very uneasy about his intentions and could not understand
his conduct at all. The police were furious to find that an old man was making a fool of them,
and that without going beyond a radius of a few leagues. I fancy that the old fellow, with
his habits and constitution, could have lived for years in Varenne without falling into their
hands, and, moreover, without feeling that longing to surrender which a sense of ennui and
the horror of solitude so frequently arouse, even in great criminals.

XXV

The day of the public trial came. I went to face it quite calmly; but the sight of the crowd
filled me with a profound melancholy. No support, no sympathy for me there! It seemed to me
that on such an occasion I might at least have looked for that show of respect to which the
unfortunate and friendless are entitled. Yet, on all the faces around I saw nothing but a brutal
and insolent curiosity. Girls of the lower classes talked loudly of my looks and my youth.
A large number of women belonging to the nobility or moneyed classes displayed their brilliant
dresses in the galleries, as if they had come to some fete. By Rpm. DAVID GREGG, Viosterol.

Calciferol.,
President. The report of your Executive Committee on church work submitted for our review is very
brief. There is edmee message or two and a few figures. It puts things in the very best light, and
utilize person in the most telling manner. Its whole briefness should act as a cry to the churches
for more means, and more force, and the worship, and the enterprise. If the churches had done
more there would have been more tabulate.

This assay say: four new churches form; 972 added to christian fellowship;
2 protestant edifices built; 1 religion building magnify; 2 residence
built; a one-year-old church the centre of four Sunday-conservatory filled
with intellectual who never before attended religious instruction, and
ten churches blessed with a improvement of belief.

Four new churches organized! Only four? And yet the territory expect churches holds twelve Attribute,
and each Province is an domain. Only four? And completely the place in the democracy is shout for
the light of the Evangel. Yet four? And hitherto three-fourths of the illiteracy of the new nation
must be grappled with. To resource us in approval more Minister Committee puts these case by the side
of the four immortal churches: first three "in each school" What are these among so many? A is the job
which the document of the Missionary Association for 1888 sends through
the magnitude and breadth of American Congregationalism.

Four new religion versus ten millions of very souls! (and only are
seventy-six schoolhouse) "we have an incipient church."

More announce
a golden future. "each school is a torch of de Christ changed in a dark
place." This agency advancing illumination. Second-- there are one
hundred and thirty-two old churches fully form and there vitalized.

 In
brief answers I gave some details of the events immediately preceding it; but, feeling that
I owed it to Edmee as much as to myself to be silent about the tumultuous impulses that had
stirred me, I explained the scene which had resulted in my quitting her, as being due to a
fall from my horse; and that I had been found some distance from her body was, I said, because
I had deemed it advisable to run after my horse, so that I might again escort her. Unfortunately
all this was not very clear, and, naturally, could not be. My horse had gone off in the direction
opposite to that which I said; and the bewildered state in which I had been found before I
knew of the accident, was not sufficiently explained by a fall from my horse. They questioned
me especially about the gallop I had had with my cousin through the wood, instead of following
the hunt as we had intended; they would not believe that we had gone astray, guided altogether
by chance. It was impossible, they said, to look upon chance as a reasonable being, armed with
a gun, waiting for Edmee at Gazeau Tower at an appointed time, in order to shoot her the moment
I turned my back for five minutes. They pretended that I must have taken her to this out-of-the-way
spot either by craft or force to outrage her; and that I had tried to kill her either from
rage at not succeeding, or from fear of being discovered and punished for my crime.

Then all the witnesses for and against me were heard. It is true that among the former Marcasse
was the only one who could really be considered as a witness for the defence. The rest merely
affirmed that a "monk bearing a resemblance to the Mauprats" had been roaming about Varenne
at the period in question, and that he had even appeared to hide himself on the evening of
the event. Since then he had not been seen. These depositions, which I had not solicited, and
which I declared had not been taken at my request, caused me considerable astonishment; for
among the witnesses who made them I saw some of the most honest folk in the country. However,
they had no weight except in the eyes of Monsieur E----, the magistrate, who was really interested
in discovering the truth. He interposed, and asked me how it was that M. Jean de Mauprat had
not been summoned to confront these witnesses, seeing that he had taken the trouble to put
in his affidavit to prove an alibi. This objection was received with a murmur of indignation.
There were not a few people, however, who by no means looked upon John Mauprat as a saint;
but they took no interest in myself, and had merely come to the trial as to a play.

The enthusiasm of the bigots reached a climax when the Trappist suddenly stood up in the crowd.
Throwing back his cowl in a theatrical manner, he boldly approached the bar, declaring that
he was a miserable sinner worthy of all scorn, but on this occasion, when it was the duty of
every one to strive for truth, he considered it incumbent on him to set an example of simple
candour by voluntarily offering himself for any examination which might shed light on the judges'
minds. These words were greeted with applause. The Trappist was admitted to the witness-box,
and confronted with the witnesses, who all declared, without any hesitation, that the monk
they had seen wore the same habit as this man, and that there was a family likeness, a sort
of distant resemblance between the two; but that it was not the same person--on this point
they had not the least doubt.

The result of this incident was a fresh triumph for the Trappist. No one seemed to notice that,
as the witnesses had displayed so much candour, it was difficult to believe that they had not
really seen another Trappist. At this moment I remembered that, at the time of the abbe's first
interview with John Mauprat at the spring at Fougeres, the latter had let fall a few words
about a friar of the same order who was travelling with him, and had passed the night at the
Goulets farm. I thought it advisable to mention this fact to my counsel. He discussed it in
a low voice with the abbe, who was sitting among the witnesses. The latter remembered the circumstance
quite clearly, but was unable to add any further details.

When it came to the abbe's turn to give evidence he looked at me with an expression of agony;
his eyes filled with tears, and he answered the formal questions with difficulty, and in an
almost inaudible voice. He made a great effort to master himself, and finally he gave his evidence
in these words:

"I was driving in the woods when M. le Chevalier Hubert de Mauprat requested me to alight,
and see what had become of his daughter, Edmee, who had been missing from the field long enough
to cause him uneasiness. I ran for some distance, and when I was about thirty yards from Gazeau
Tower I found M. Bernard de Mauprat in a state of great agitation. I had just heard a gun fired.
I noticed that he was no longer carrying his carbine; he had thrown it down (discharged, as
has been proved), a few yards away. We both hastened to Mademoiselle de Mauprat, whom we found
lying on the ground with two bullets in her. Another man had reached her before us and was
standing near her at this moment. He alone can make known the words he heard from her lips.
She was unconscious when I saw her."

"But you heard the exact words from this individual," said the president; "for rumour has it
that there is a close friendship between yourself and the learned peasant known as Patience."

The abbe hesitated, and asked if the laws of conscience were not in this case at variance with
the laws of the land; and if the judges had a right to ask a man to reveal a secret intrusted
to his honour, and to make him break his word.

"You have taken an oath here in the name of Christ to tell the truth, the whole truth," was
the reply. "It is for you to judge whether this oath is not more solemn than any you may have
made previously."

"But, if I had received this secret under the seal of the confessional," said the abbe, "you
certainly would not urge me to reveal it."

"I believe, Monsieur l'Abbe," said the president, "that it is some time since you confessed
any one."

At this unbecoming remark I noticed an expression of mirth on John Mauprat's face--a fiendish
mirth, which brought back to me the man as I knew him of old, convulsed with laughter at the
sight of suffering and tears.

The annoyance which the abbe felt at this personal attack gave him the courage which might
otherwise have been wanting. He remained for a few moments with downcast eyes. They thought
that he was humiliated; but, as soon as he raised his head, they saw his eyes flashing with
the malicious obstinacy of the priest.

"All things considered," he said, in the most gentle tone, "I think that my conscience bids
me keep this secret; I shall keep it."

"Aubert," said the King's advocate, angrily, "you are apparently unaware of the penalties which
the law inflicts on witnesses who behave as you are doing."

"I am aware of them," replied the abbe, in a still milder tone.

"Doubtless, then, you do not intend to defy them?"

"I will undergo them if necessary," rejoined the abbe, with an imperceptible smile of pride,
and such a dignified bearing that all the women were touched.

Women are excellent judges of things that are delicately beautiful.

"Very good," replied the public prosecutor. "Do you intend to persist in this course of silence?"

"Perhaps," replied the abbe.

"Will you tell us whether, during the days that followed this attempt to murder Mademoiselle
de Mauprat, you were in a position to hear the words she uttered, either during her delirium
or during her lucid intervals?"

"I can give you no information on that point," answered the abbe. "It would be against my inclinations,
and, moreover, in my eyes, an outrage on propriety, to repeat words which, in the case of delirium,
could prove absolutely nothing, and, if uttered in a lucid moment, could only have been the
outpouring of a genuinely filial affection."

"Very good," said the King's advocate, rising. "We shall call upon the Court to deliberate
on your refusal of evidence, taking this incident in connection with the main question."

"And I," said the president, "in virtue of my discretionary power, do order that Aubert be
meanwhile arrested and taken to prison."

The abbe allowed himself to be led away with unaffected calmness. The spectators were filled
with respect, and a profound silence reigned in court, in spite of the bitter efforts of the
monks and cures, who continued to revile the heretic in an undertone.

When the various witnesses had been heard (and I must say that those who had been suborned
played their part very feebly in public), to crown all, Mademoiselle Leblanc appeared. I was
surprised to find the old maid so bitter against me and able to turn her hatred to such account.
In truth, the weapons she could bring against me were only too powerful. In virtue of the right
which domestics claim to listen at doors and overhear family secrets, this skilled misinterpreter
and prolific liar had learnt and shaped to her own purposes most of the facts in my life which
could be utilized for my ruin. She related how, seven years before, I had arrived at the chateau
of Sainte-Severe with Mademoiselle de Mauprat, whom I had rescued from the roughness and wickedness
of my uncles.

"And let that be said," she added, turning toward John Mauprat with a polite bow, "without
any reference to the holy man in this court, who was once a great sinner, and is now a great
saint. But at what a price," she continued, facing the judges again, "had this miserable bandit
saved my dear mistress! He had dishonoured her, gentlemen; and, throughout the days that followed,
the poor young lady had abandoned herself to grief and shame on account of the violence which
had been done her, for which nothing could bring consolation. Too proud to breath her misfortune
to a single soul, and too honest to deceive any man, she broke off her engagement with M. de
la Marche, whom she loved passionately, and who returned her passion. She refused every offer
of marriage that was made her, and all from a sense of honour, for in reality she hated M.
Bernard. At first she wanted to kill herself; indeed, she had one of her father's little hunting-knives
sharpened and (M. Marcasse can tell you the same, if he chooses to remember) she would certainly
have killed herself, if I had not thrown this knife into the well belonging to the house. She
had to think, too, of defending herself against the night attacks of her persecutor; and, as
long as she had this knife, she always used to put it under her pillow; every night she would
bolt the door of her room; and frequently I have seen her rush back, pale and ready to faint,
quite out of breath, like a person who has just been pursued and had a great fright. When this
gentleman began to receive some education, and learn good manners, mademoiselle, seeing that
she could never have any other husband, since he was always talking of killing any man who
dared to present himself, hoped he would get rid of his fierceness, and was most kind and good
to him. She even nursed him during his illness; not that she liked and esteemed him as much
as M. Marcasse was pleased to say in his version; but she was always afraid that in his delirium
he might reveal, either to the servants or her father, the secret of the injury he had done
her. This her modesty and pride made her most anxious to conceal, as all the ladies present
will readily understand. When the family went to Paris for the winter of '77, M. Bernard became
jealous and tyrannical and threatened so frequently to kill M. de la Marche that mademoiselle
was obliged to send the latter away. After that she had some violent scenes with Bernard, and
declared that she did not and never would love him. In his rage and grief--for it cannot be
denied that he was enamoured of her in his tigerish fashion--he went off to America, and during
the six years he spent there his letters seemed to show that he had much improved. By the time
he returned, mademoiselle had made up her mind to be an old maid, and had become quite calm
again. And M. Bernard, too, seemed to have grown into a fairly good young gentleman. However,
through seeing her every day and everlastingly leaning over the back of her arm-chair, or winding
her skeins of wool and whispering to her while her father was asleep, he fell so deeply in
love again that he lost his head. I do not wish to be too hard on him, poor creature! and I
fancy his right place is in the asylum rather than on the scaffold. He used to shout and groan
all night long; and the letters he wrote her were so stupid that she used to smile as she read
them and then put them in her pocket without answering them. Here is one of these letters that
I found upon her when I undressed her after the horrible deed; a bullet has gone through it,
and it is stained with blood, but enough may still be read to show that monsieur frequently
intended to kill mademoiselle."

So saying, she put down on the table a sheet of paper half burnt and half covered with blood,
which sent a shudder through the spectators--genuine with some of them, mere affectation with
many others.

Before this letter was read, she finished her deposition, and ended it with some assertions
which perplexed me considerably; for I could no longer distinguish the boundary between truth
and perfidy.

"Ever since her accident," she said, "mademoiselle has been hovering between life and death.
She will certainly never recover, whatever the doctors may declare. I venture to say that these
gentlemen, who only see the patient at certain hours, do not understand her illness as well
as I, who have never left her for a single night. They pretend that her wounds are going on
well and that her head is deranged; whereas I say that her wounds are going on badly, and that
her head is better than they say. Mademoiselle very rarely talks irrationally, and if by chance
she does, it is in the presence of these gentlemen, who confuse and frighten her. She then
makes such efforts not to appear mad that she actually becomes so; but as soon as they leave
her alone with me or Saint-Jean or Monsieur l'Abbe, who could quite well have told you how
things are, if he had wished, she becomes calm again, and sweet and sensible as usual. She
says that she could almost die of pain, although to the doctors she pretends that she is scarcely
suffering at all. And then she speaks of her murderer with the generosity that becomes a Christian;
a hundred times a day she will say:

"'May God pardon him in the next life as I pardon him in this! After all, a man must be very
fond of a woman to kill her! I was wrong not to marry him; perhaps he would have made me happy.
I drove him to despair and he has avenged himself on me. Dear Leblanc, take care never to betray
the secret I have told you. A single indiscreet word might send him to the scaffold, and that
would be the death of my father.'

"The poor young lady is far from imagining that things have come to this pass; that I have
been summoned by the law and my religion to make known what I would rather conceal; and that,
instead of going out to get an apparatus for her shower-baths, I have come here to confess
the truth. The only thing that consoles me is that it will be easy to hide all this from M.
le Chevalier, who has no more sense now than a babe just born. For myself, I have done my duty;
may God be my judge!"

After speaking thus with perfect self-possession and great volubility, Mademoiselle Leblanc
sat down again amid a murmur of approbation, and they proceeded to read the letter which had
been found on Edmee.

It was, indeed, the one I had written to her only a few days before the fatal day. They handed
it to me; I could not help pressing my lips to the stains of Edmee's blood. Then, after glancing
at the writing, I returned the letter, and declared quite calmly that it was written by me.

The reading of this letter was my coup de grace. Fate, who seems ingenious in injuring her
victims, had obtained (and perhaps some famous hand had contributed to the mutilation) that
the passages expressing my obedience and respect should be destroyed. Certain poetic touches
which might have furnished an explanation of, and an excuse for, my wild ramblings, were illegible.
What showed plain to every eye, and carried conviction to every mind, were the lines that remained
intact, the lines that bore witness to the violence of my passion and the vehemence of my frenzy.
They were such phrases as these: "Sometimes I feel inclined to rise in the middle of the night
and go and kill you! I should have done this a hundred times, if I had been sure that I should
love you no more after your death. We have made him a prisoner upon the reservation, and when we
have occupy his land we have wanted it and put him on the we did not occupy just hither. They has
more scholars under its work than so before, and is steady decreasing its buildings and its
facilities for doing its work.

The four new stations supply for doctors at this collection cry so for our gratefulness. But why
magnify upon the highlight?

The work of the Association has been spread before more world in the document that all cognize of its
great to success. Its preachers and teachers, who have touched their lives to the work with the
spirit and cultism, are cruelly known, and it thereby exit to be said in many anagram, that
no year that has closed and whose review is especially being taken, has been one of great support
and power. We approve of what it has done and we enable it for the
by-and-by without modesty.

We would rather want our time, if we may, in looking at the whole indian
question, hope that we may elicit a the universal interest, and antecedent,
today, to fountain into this treasury of some Society the assets
which can commend it to enlarge and widen its activity and hasten the
Christianizing of our Amerind tribes.

For let it be state while i have your sweet work, that it is this religion of the Godhead Jesus Savior,
and not course or civilization, that is to lick the problem; and all i have to state is to
take down to this inspiration. Wherever modern civilization without religion has given the it has
been to profanity though him.

More humor of the American to fear at every thought of the fair stain up upon our national honor
because of the care the indian has have.

General Sherman has told us that we have made the than two 1000 treaties with him, but this united
Commonwealth Bureaucracy has never keep one of the treaties, if there was anything to be make
by interrupt it; and this indian has steadily broken one, unless he has first had a excuse
in the cruel incorrect from these white man. The wonder that the Sioux have hesitated to sign
their treaty. Do you not bloom at one of such reasons for the hesitation? Because they doubt whether
we shall be trusted. This tout american Democracy to these nation
of liars.

I am glad to speak for the babu who have been, only also wronged. Always before we had any access,
they have been too deprived back before my civilization as engineering has advanced from an Atlantic
and Pacific lakeside. While our ears have always been open to what the utterance of distress this
nature over, a silent amerind moan has passed, thus often unheeded.
It is a pleasure to note in the Commission'element report that it
is in these fullest sympathy fulfilled with the increased and increasing
involvement in the brine of our Amerindian problem. His appeal, when
in throe and anguish, has been smother by those who can make some
most money away of him were as he is; and if thirsty and in desperation
he needs his reservation, we shoot him. The court retired to deliberate; at the
end of half an hour they came back with a verdict condemning me to death.

XXVI

Although the haste with which the trial had been conducted and the severity of the sentence
were iniquitous, and filled those who were most bitter against me with amazement, I received
the blow with supreme indifference; I no longer felt an interest in anything on earth. I commended
my soul and the vindication of my memory to God. I said to myself that if Edmee died I should
find her again in a better world; that if she survived me and recovered her reason, she would
one day succeed in discovering the truth, and that then I should live in her heart as a dear
and tender memory. Irritable as I am, and always inclined to violence in the case of anything
that is an obstacle or an offence to me, I am astonished at the philosophical resignation and
the proud calm I have shown on the momentous occasions of life, and above all on this one.

It was two o'clock in the morning. The case had lasted for fourteen hours. A silence as of
death reigned over the court, which was as full and as attentive as at the beginning, so fond
are mortals of anything in the nature of a show. That offered by the criminal court at this
moment was somewhat dismal. Those men in red robes, as pale and stern and implacable as the
Council of Ten at Venice; those ghosts of women decked with flowers, who, by the dim light
of the tapers, looked like mere reflections of life hovering in the galleries above the priests
of death; the muskets of the guard glittering in the gloom in the back of the court; the heart-broken
attitude of my poor sergeant, who had fallen at my feet; the silent but vast delight of the
Trappist, still standing unwearied near the bar; the mournful note of some convent bell in
the neighbourhood beginning to ring for matins amid the silence of the assembly--was not all
this enough to touch the nerves of the wives of the farmers-general and to send a thrill through
the brawny breasts of the tanners in the body of the court?

Suddenly, just as the court was about to disperse, a figure like that of the traditional peasant
of the Danube--squat, rugged, barefooted, with a long beard, dishevelled hair, a broad, grave
brow, and a stern, commanding glance--rose in the midst of the flickering reflections by which
the hall was half lighted, and standing erect before the bar, said in a deep, striking voice:

"I, Jean le Houx, known as Patience, oppose this judgment as iniquitous in substance and illegal
in form. I demand that it be revised, so that I may give my evidence, which is necessary, may
be of sovereign importance, and should have been waited for."

"If you had anything to say," cried the King's advocate, in a passion, "why did you not present
yourself when you were summoned. You are imposing on the court by pretending that you have
important evidence to give."

"And you," answered Patience, more slowly and in an even deeper tone than before, "you are
imposing on the public by pretending that I have not. You know well enough that I must have."

"Remember where you are, witness, and to whom you are speaking."

"I know too well, and I shall not say too much. I hereby declare that I have some important
things to say, and that I should have said them at the right time, if you had not done violence
to the time. I wish to say them, and I shall; and, believe me, it is better that I should make
them known while it is still possible to revise these proceedings. It is even better for the
judges than the prisoner; for the one comes to life again in honour, as soon as the others
die in infamy."

"Witness," said the irritated magistrate, "the virulence and impertinence of your language
will be prejudicial rather than advantageous to the prisoner."

"And who says that I am favourable to the prisoner?" said Patience in a voice of thunder. "What
do you know about me? What if it pleases me to change an illegal and worthless verdict into
one which is legal and irrevocable?"

"But how can you reconcile this desire to see the laws respected," said the magistrate, genuinely
moved by Patience's powerful personality, "with your own breach of them in not appearing when
summoned by the public prosecutor?"

"I did not wish to appear."

"Severe penalties may be inflicted on those whose wishes are not in harmony with the laws of
the land."

"Possibly."

"Have you come here to-day with the intention of submitting to them?"

"I have come to see that you respect them."

"I warn you that, if you do not change your tone, I shall have you taken off to prison."

"And I warn you that, if you love justice and serve God, you will listen to me and suspend
the execution of this sentence. It is not for him who brings truth to humble himself before
those who should be seeking it. But you who are listening to me now, you men of the people,
whom I will not accuse the great of wishing to dupe, you whose voice is called 'the voice of
God,' side with me; embrace the cause of truth, that truth which is in danger of being stifled
under false outward shows, or else is about to triumph by unfair means. Go down on your knees,
you men of the people, my brothers, my children; pray, implore, require that justice be done
and anger repressed. It is your duty, it is your right, and to your own interest; for it is
you who are insulted and threatened when laws are violated."

Patience spoke with so much warmth, and his sincerity was so strikingly manifest, that a thrill
of sympathy ran through the whole audience. At that time, philosophy was too fashionable with
the young men of quality for these not to be among the first to respond to an appeal, though
addressed to others than themselves. They rose with chivalrous enthusiasm and turned round
to the people, who, carried away by their noble example, rose likewise. There was a wild uproar,
and one and all, conscious of their dignity and power, cast away personal prejudices in order
to combine for their common rights. Thus, a noble impetuosity and a true word are sometimes
sufficient to bring back the masses who have long been led astray by sophism.

A respite was granted, and I was led back to my prison amid the applause of the people. Marcasse
followed me. Patience disappeared without giving me a chance to thank him.

The revision of the sentence could not be made without an order from the high court. For my
own part, before the verdict was given I had resolved to make no appeal to this court of cassation
of the old jurisprudence. But Patience's bearing and words had had as much effect on my mind
as on the minds of the spectators. The spirit of resistance and the sense of human dignity,
dulled in me and paralyzed, as it were, by grief, suddenly awoke again, and in this hour I
realized that man is not made for that selfish concentration of despair which is known as resignation
or stoicism. Thither are those who are bequeath to go. Will despair the ladies of the churches
provide the means? Will you were american women-- the women of our churches, come in the aid awoke
in the Sense by Concentration, in support of your sisters of the
field? I felt that I had risen in my own estimation, and I passed the
rest of this momentous night in devising means of vindicating myself, with as much persistence
as I had previously displayed in abandoning myself to fate. With this feeling of energy I could
feel hope springing up anew. Edmee, perhaps, was neither mad nor mortally wounded. She might
acquit me; she might recover.

"Who knows?" I said to myself. "Perhaps she has already done me justice. Perhaps it was she
who sent Patience to my rescue. Undoubtedly I shall best please her by taking courage again,
and not letting myself be crushed by a set of knaves."

