"And yet there has always seemed a fatal necessity for me to do wrong and go wrong. Miss Walton,
you are made of different clay from me and most people that I know. It is your nature to be
good and noble."

"Nonsense!" said Annie, with a positive frown. "Different clay indeed! I imagine you do wrong
for the same reason that I do, because you wish to; and you fail in doing right because you
have nothing but your weak human will to keep you up."

"And what keeps you up, pray?"

"Can you even suppose that I or any one can be a Christian without Christ?"

He gave one of his incredulous shrugs.

"Now what may that mean?" she asked.

"Pardon me if I say that I think yours is a pretty and harmless superstition. This world is
one of inexorable law and necessity down to the minutest thing. A weed is always a weed. A
rose is always a rose. It's my misfortune to be a weed. It's your good fortune to be a rose."

Annie looked as if she might become a briery one at that moment, for this direct style of compliment,
though honest, was not agreeable. Conscious of many struggles with evil, it was even painful,
for it did her injustice in two aspects of the case. So she said, dryly, "What an automaton
you make me out to be!"

"How so?" "If I merely do right as the rose grows, I deserve no credit. I'm but little better
than a machine."

"Not at all. I compared you to something that has a beautiful life of its own. But I would
willingly be a machine, and a very angular, uncouth one too, if some outside power would only
work me right and to some purpose."

"Such talk seems to me idle, Mr. Gregory. I know that I have to try very hard to do right,
and I often fail. I do not believe that our very existence begins in a lie, as it were, for
from earliest years conscience tells us that we needn't do wrong and ought not to. Honestly
now, isn't this true of your conscience?"

"But my reason concludes otherwise, and reason is above conscience-- above everything, and
one must abide by its decisions."

For a moment Annie did not know how to answer. She was not versed in theology and metaphysics,
but she knew he was wrong. Therefore she covered her confusion by quietly pouring him out another
cup of tea, and then said, "Even my slight knowledge of the past has taught me how many absurd
and monstrous things can be done and said in the name of reason. Religion is a matter of revelation
and experience. But it is not contrary to reason, certainly not to mine. If your reason should
conclude that this tea is not hot, what difference would that make to me? My religion is a
matter of fact, of vivid consciousness."

"Of course it is. It's your life, your nature, just as in my nature there is nothing akin to
it. That is why I say you are made of different clay from myself; and I am very glad of it,"
he added with an air of pleasantry which she saw veiled genuine earnestness, "for I wish you
the best of everything now and always."

Annie felt that she could not argue him out of his folly; and while she was annoyed, she could
not be angry with him for expressions that were not meant as flattery, but were rather the
strong language of his gratitude. "Time will cure him of his delusions," she thought, and she
said, lightly, "Mr. Gregory, from certain knowledge of myself which you cannot have I disclaim
all your absurd ideas in regard to the new- fangled clay of my composition. I know very well
that I am ordinary flesh and blood, a fact that you will soon find out for yourself. As your
physician, I pronounce that such wild fancies and extravagant language prove that you are out
of your head, and that you need quieting sleep. I am going to read you the dullest book in
the library as a sedative."

"No, please, sing rather."

"What! after such a breakfast! Do you suppose that I would ruin the reputation of my voice
in one fell moment? Now what kind of clay led to this remark? Do as your doctor says. Recline
on the lounge. Close your eyes. Here is a treatise on the Nebular Hypothesis that looks unintelligible
enough for our purpose."

"Nebular Hypothesis! Another heavenly experience such as you are ever giving me."

"Come, Mr. Gregory, punning is a very bad symptom. You must go to sleep at once." And soon
her mellow voice was finding its way into a labyrinth of hard scientific terms, as a mountain
brook might murmur among the stones. After a little time she asked of Gregory, whose eyes remained
wide open, "How does it sound?"

"Like the multiplication table set to music."

"Why don't you go to sleep?"

"I'm trying to solve a little nebular hypothesis of my own. I was computing how many million
belles such as I know, and how many ages, would be required to condense them into a woman like
yourself."

Annie shut the book with a slam, and with an abrupt, half-vexed "good- by," left the room.
For a brief time Gregory lay repenting of his disastrous levity, and then slept.

CHAPTER XX

MISS WALTON MADE OF ORDINARY CLAY

When Gregory awoke, the sun had sunk behind the mountains that he could not even look toward
now without a shudder, and the landscape, as seen from the window, was growing obscure in the
early dusk of an autumn evening. But had the window opened on a vista in Paradise he would
not have looked without, for the one object of all the world most attractive to him was present.
Annie sat near the hearth with some light crochet-work in her hands. She had evidently been
out for a walk, for she was drying her feet on the fender. How trim and cunning they looked,
peeping from under the white edge of her skirt, and what a pretty picture she made sitting
there in the firelight! The outline of her figure surely did not suggest the "ethereal heroine,"
but rather the presiding genius in a happy home, in which the element of comfort abounded.
She looked as if she would be a sweet-tempered, helpful companion, in the every-day cares and
duties of a busy life:

     "A creature not too bright or good
      For human nature's daily food."

"How dark and lustrous her eyes are in the firelight!" Gregory thought. "It seems as if another
and more genial fire were burning in them. What can she be thinking of, that such happy, dreamy
smiles are flitting across her face? If I had such a hearth as that, and such a good angel
beside it to receive me after the day's work was over, I believe I could become at least a
man, if not a Christian;" and he sighed so deeply that Annie looked hastily up, and encountered
his wistful gaze.

"What a profound remark you just made!" she said. "What could have led to it?"

"You."

"I do not think that I am an object to sigh over. I'm perfectly well, I thank you, and have
had my dinner."

"You have no idea what a pretty picture you made."

"Yes, in this poor light, and your disordered imagination. But did you sigh on that account?"

"No, but because to me it is only a picture--one that shall have the chief place in the gallery
of my memory. In a few days I shall be in my cheerless bachelor apartments, with nothing but
a dusty register in the place of this home-like hearth."

"Come, Mr. Gregory, you are growing sentimental. I will go and see if supper is ready."

"Please stay, and I will talk of the multiplication table."

"No, that led to the 'Nebular Hypothesis.' You had better prepare for supper;" and she vanished.

"It's my fate," he said, rising, "to drive away every good and pleasant thing."

He went to the fire and stood where she had sat, and again thought was busy.

"She seems so real and substantial, and yet so intangible! Her defensive armor is perfect,
and I cannot get near or touch her unless she permits it. The sincerest compliment glances
off. Out of her kindness she helps me and does me good. She bewitches and sways me by her spells,
but I might as well seek to imprison a spirit of the air as to gain any hold upon her. I wonder
whom or what she was thinking of, that such dreamy, tender smiles should flit across her face."

How his face would have darkened with wrath and hate, if he had known that his detestation,
Hunting, had inspired them!

The tea-bell reminded him how time was passing, and he went to his room with an elastic step
that one would suppose impossible after seeing him in the morning. But, as is usual with nervous
organizations, he sank or rallied rapidly in accordance with circumstances. When he appeared
at the table, Mr. Walton could hardly believe his eyes.

"It is again the result of Miss Walton's witchcraft," explained Gregory. "The moment I felt
her hand upon my brow, there came a sense of relief. In Italy they would make a saint of her,
and bring out the sick for her to touch."

"And so soon lose their saint by some contagious disease," said Annie, laughing.

"I fear, sir, I was very rude to you this morning, but in truth I was beside myself with pain."

"Annie has a wonderful power of magnetism; I don't know what else to call it," said Miss Eulie.
"She can drive away one of my headaches quicker than all other remedies combined."

"You are making out," said Annie, "that my proper calling is that of a nurse. If you don't
change the subject, I'll leave you all to take care of yourselves, and go down to Bellevue."

"If you do," laughed Gregory, "I'll break every bone in my body, and be carried into your ward
as a homeless stranger."

The supper-hour passed away in light and cheerful conversation. As if by common consent, the
scenes on the mountain were not mentioned in the presence of the children, and they evidently
had had their curiosity satisfied on the subject.

Annie seemed tired and languid after supper and Miss Eulie volunteered to see the children
safely to their rest. Mr. Walton insisted that Annie should take his easy-chair, and Gregory
placed a footstool at her feet, and together they "made a baby of her," she said. The old gentleman
then took his seat, and seemed to find unbounded content in gazing on his beloved daughter.
Their guest appeared restless and began to pace the room. Suddenly he asked Mr. Walton, "Have
you heard anything of the fugitives?"

"Not a word beyond the fact that they bought tickets for New York and took the train. I have
telegraphed to the City Police Department, and forwarded the description of their persons which
Annie gave me. Their dwelling has been examined by a competent person, but evidently he is
an old and experienced criminal and knows how to cover up his tracks. I think it extremely
providential that they did nothing worse than send you over on the other side of the mountain
in order to clear a way for escape. Such desperate people often believe only in the silence
of death. They might have caused that dog to tear you to pieces and have appeared blameless
themselves. If caught, only your testimony could convict them, though I suspect Mrs. Tompkins
and her son. Young Tompkins brought them with their luggage to the depot. He says the man called
'Vight' met him returning from the delivery of a load of wood, and engaged his services. As
he often does teaming for people in those back districts his story is plausible; and he swears
he knew nothing against the man. But he is a bad drinking fellow, and just the one to become
an accomplice in any rascality. I fear they will all escape us, and yet I am profoundly grateful
that matters are no worse."

While Mr. Walton was talking, Gregory was looking intently at Annie. She was conscious of his
scrutiny, and her color rose under it, but she continued to gaze steadily at the fire.

"And I am going to increase that gratitude a hundred-fold, sir," he said, earnestly.

Annie looked up at him with a startled, deprecatory air. "No, Miss Walton," he said, answering
her look, "I will not be silent. While it is due to your generosity that the world does not
hear of your heroism as the story would naturally be told, it is your father's right that he
should hear it, and know the priceless jewel that he has in his daughter. I know that appearances
will be against me. If you can take her view of the matter, sir, I shall be glad, otherwise
I cannot help it;" and he related the events as they had actually occurred, softening or palliating
his course in not the slightest degree.

Mr. Walton turned ashen pale as he thus for the first time learned the desperate nature of
his daughter's peril. Then rising with a sudden impulse of pride and affection he clasped her
in his arms.

Gregory was about to leave the room, when Mr. Walton's voice detained him.

"Do not go, sir. You will pardon a father's weakness."

"Father, I give you my word and honor," cried Annie, eagerly, "that Mr. Gregory did not act
the part of a coward. He scarcely does himself justice in his story. He did not realize the
principle involved, and saw in the promise he gave the readiest way out of an awkward and dangerous
predicament. He did not think the man's crime was any of our business--"

"There is no need of pleading Mr. Gregory's cause so earnestly, my dear," interrupted her father.
"I think I understand his course fully, and share your view of it. I am too well accustomed
to the taking of evidence not to detect the ring of truth."

"I cannot tell you, sir, what a relief it is to me that you and Miss Walton can judge thus
correctly of my action. This morning and yesterday I believed that you and all the world would
regard me as the meanest of cowards, and the bitterness of death was in the thought."

"No, sir," said Mr. Walton, kindly but gravely; "your course did not result from cowardice.
But permit an old man and your father's friend to say that it did result from the lack of high
moral principle. Its want in this case might have been fatal, for the world, as you feared,
would scarcely do you justice. Let it be a lesson to you, my dear young friend, that only the
course which is strictly right is safe, even as far as this world is concerned."

Gregory's face flushed deeply, but he bowed his head in humility at the rebuke.

"At the same time," continued Mr. Walton, "it was manly in you to state the case frankly to
me as you have done; for you knew that you might shield yourself behind Annie's silence."

"It was simply your right to know it," said Gregory, in a low tone.

After a few moments of musing silence, Annie said, earnestly, "I do so pity that poor woman!"

"I imagine she is little better than her companion," said Mr. Walton.

"Indeed she is, father," said Annie, eagerly. "I cannot tell you how I feel for her, and I
know from her manner and words that her guilty life is a crushing burden. It must be a terrible
thing to a woman capable of good (as she is), and wishing to live a true life, to be irrevocably
bound to a man utterly bad."

"She is not so bound to him," said her father; "can she not leave him?"

"Ah! there comes in a mystery," she replied, and the subject dropped. Soon after, they separated
for the night.

But Gregory had much food for painful thought. After the experience of that day his chief desire
was to stand well in Miss Walton's esteem. And yet how did he stand--how could he stand, being
what he was? He was not conscious of love for her as yet. He would have been satisfied if she
had said, "I will be your friend in the truest sense of the word." He had no small vanity,
and understood her kindness. She was trying to do good to him as she would to any one else.
She was sorry for him as for the wretched woman who also found an evil life bitter, but she
could never think of him as a dear, congenial, trusted friend. Even her father, in her presence,
had rebuked his lack of principle, asserting that his nature was like the vile weed; and this
had been proved every day of his visit. If she should come to know of his purpose and effort
to tempt her into the display of petty weakness and lack of principle herself, would she not
regard him as "utterly bad," and shrink with loathing even from the bonds of friendship?

He was learning the lesson that wrong sooner or later will bring its own punishment, and that
the little experiment upon which he had entered as a relief from ennui might become the impassable
gulf between him and happiness; for he knew that, if their relations ever verged toward mutual
confidence, she would ask questions that would render lies his only escape. He could not sink
to that resort. It was late before he found in sleep refuge from painful thoughts.

The next day he was much alone. The news of their adventure having got abroad, many because
of their sincere regard for Annie, and not a few out of curiosity, called to talk the matter
over. After meeting one or two of these parties, and witnessing the modesty and grace with
which Annie satisfied and foiled their curiosity at the same time, he was glad to escape further
company in a long and solitary ramble. The air was mild, so that he could take rest in sunny
nooks, and thus he spent most of the day by himself. His conscience was awakened, and the more
pure and beautiful Annie's character grew in his estimation, the more dastardly his attempt
upon it seemed. Never before had his evil life appeared so hideous and hateful.

And yet his remorse had nothing in it of true penitence. It was rather a bitter, impotent revolt
at what he regarded as cruel necessity. Now that he had been forced to abandon his theory that
people are good as they are untempted, he adopted another, which, if it left him in a miserable
predicament, exonerated him from blame. He had stated it to Annie when he said, "You are made
of different clay from other people." He tried hard to believe this, and partially succeeded.
"It is her nature to be good, and mine to be evil," he often said to himself that long and
lonely day. "I have had a fatal gravitation toward evil ever since I can remember."

But this was not true. Indeed, it could be proved out of his own memory that he had had as
many good and noble impulses as the majority, and that circumstances had not been more adverse
to him than to numerous others. He was dimly conscious of these facts, though he tried to shut
his eyes to them.

A man finally gets justice at the bar of his own conscience, but it is extorted gradually,
reluctantly, with much befogging of the case.

Still this theory would not help him much with Annie Walton, for he knew that she would never
entertain it a moment.

Thus he wandered for hours amid old scenes and boyish haunts, utterly oblivious of them, brooding
more and more darkly and despondingly over his miserable lot. He tried to throw off the burden
of depressing thought by asking, in sudden fierceness, "Well, what is Annie Walton to me? I
have only known her a short time, and having lived thus long, can live the rest of my days--probably
few--without her."

But it was of no use. His heart would not echo the words, but in its very depths a voice clear
and distinct seemed to say, "I want to be with her--to be near her. With her, the hours are
winged; away, they are leaden-footed. She awakens hope, she makes it appear possible to be a man."

He remembered her hand upon his aching brow, and groaned aloud in view of the gulf that his
own life had placed between them.

"'Neither can they pass to us,'" he said, unconsciously repeating the words of Scripture. "With
her nature what I know it to be, she cannot in any way ally it to mine."

As the shadows of evening deepened he sauntered wearily and despondingly to the house. There
were still guests in the parlor, and he passed up to his room. For the first time he found
it chilly and fireless. It had evidently been forgotten, and he felt himself neglected; and
it seemed that he could drop out of existence unnoted and uncared for. In what had been his
own home, the place where for so many years he had experienced the most thoughtful tenderness,
there came over him a sense of loneliness and desolation such as he had never before known
or believed possible. He felt himself orphaned of heaven and earth, of God and man.

But a process had commenced in Annie's mind that would have surprised him much. Unconsciously
as yet even to herself, she was disproving his "superior clay" theory. Though carefully trained,
and though for years she had prayerfully sought to do right, still she was a true daughter
of Eve, and was often betrayed by human weakness. She had not the small, habitual vanity of
some pretty women, who take admiration and flattery as their due, and miss it as they do their
meals. Still there were pride and vanity in her composition, and the causes that would naturally
develop them were now actively at work. She considered herself plain and unattractive personally,
and so she was to the careless glance of a stranger, but she speedily became beautiful, or,
what was better, fascinating, to those who learned to know her well. All are apt to learn their
strong points rather than their weak ones, and Annie had no little confidence in her power
to win the attention and then the respect and regard of those whose eyes turned away indifferently
after the first perception of her lack of beauty. She did not use this power like a coquette,
but still she exulted in it, and was pleased to employ it where she could innocently. She was
amused by Gregory's sublime indifference at first, and thought she could soon change that condition
of his mind. She did not know that she was successful beyond her expectation or wishes.

But while she rejected and was not affected by the fulsome flattery with which he at first
plied her, detecting in it the ring of insincerity, she had noted, with not a little self-gratulation,
how speedily she had made him conscious of her existence and developed a growing interest.
She knew nothing of his deliberate plot against her, or of its motive. Therefore his manner
had often puzzled her, but she explained everything by saying, "He has lived too long in Paris."

Still it is justice to her to say that while, from the natural love of power existing in every
breast, she had her own little complacencies, and often times of positive pride and self-glorification,
yet she struggled against such tendencies, and in the main she earnestly sought to use for
their own good the influence she gained over others.

But of late there had been enough to turn a stronger head than hers. Gregory's homage and admiration
were now sincere, and she knew it, and it was no trifling thing to win such unbounded esteem
from a man who had seen so much of the world and was so critical. "He may be bad himself, but
he well knows what is good and noble," was a thought that often recurred to her. Then, in a
moment of sudden and terrible peril, she had been able to master her strong natural timidity,
and be true to conscience, and while she thanked God sincerely, she also was more and more
inclined to take a great deal of credit to herself. Gregory's words kept repeating themselves,
"You are made of different clay from others." While she knew that this was not true as he meant
it, still the tempter whispered, "You are naturally superior, and you have so schooled yourself
that you are better than many others." Her father's intense look of pride and pleasure when
he first learned of her fortitude, and his strong words of thankfulness, she took as incense
to herself. Then came a flock of eager, curious, sympathizing people, who continued to feed
her aroused pride by making her out a sort of heroine. Chief of all she was complacent in the
consciousness of so generously shielding Gregory when, if she had told the whole story, she,
in contrast with him, would appear to far greater advantage.

Altogether, her opinion of Annie Walton was rising with dangerous rapidity; and the feeling
grew strong within her that, having coped successfully with such temptations, she had little
to fear from the future. And this feeling of overweening self-confidence and self- satisfaction
was beginning to tinge her manner. Not that she would ever show it offensively, for she was
too much of a lady for that. But at the supper-table that evening she gave evident signs of
elation and excitement. She talked more than usual, and was often very positive in matters
where Gregory knew her to be wrong; and she was also a little dictatorial. At the same time
the excitement made her conversation more brilliant and pointed, and as Gregory skilfully drew
her out, he was surprised at the force and freshness of her mind.

And yet there was something that jarred unpleasantly, a lack of the sincere simplicity and
self-forgetfulness which were her usual characteristics. He had never known her to use the
pronoun "I" with such distinctness and emphasis before. Still all this would not have seemed
strange to him in another, but it did in her.

She did not notice the cloud upon his brow, or that he spoke only in order to lead her to talk.
She was too much preoccupied with herself for her customary quick sympathy with the moods of
others. She made no inquiries as to how he had spent the day, and seemingly had forgotten him
as completely as he had been absorbed in her. He saw with a deeper regret than he could understand
that, except when he awakened her pity by suffering, or entertained her by his conversation
as any stranger might, he apparently had no hold upon her thoughts.

After supper, in answer to the children's demand for stories, she said almost petulantly that
she was "too tired," and permitted Aunt Eulie to take them with sorrowful faces away to bed
earlier than usual.

"I need a little rest and quiet," she said.

Gregory was eager for further conversation in order that he might obtain some idea how mercy
would tinge her judgment of him if she should ever come to know the worst, but she suddenly
seemed disinclined to talk, or give him any attention at all.

Taking the arm-chair he usually occupied, and leaving the other for her father, she leaned
back luxuriously and gazed dreamily into the fire. Mr. Walton politely offered Gregory his.
Then Annie, suddenly, as if awakening, rose and said, "Excuse me," and was about to vacate
her seat.

But Gregory insisted upon her keeping it, saying, "You need it more than I, after the unusual
fatigues of the day. I am no longer an invalid. Even the ache in my bones from my cold has
quite disappeared."

She readily yielded to his wish, and again appeared to see something in the fire that quite
absorbed her. After receiving a few courteous monosyllables he apparently busied himself with
a magazine.

Suddenly she said to her father, "Are you sure the steamer is due to- day?"

He replied with a nod and a smile that Gregory did not understand, and he imagined that she
also gave him a quick look of vexed perplexity.

She did, for by that steamer she expected her lover, Mr. Hunting, who had been abroad on a
brief business visit, and she hoped that in a day or two he would make his appearance. Conscious
of the bitter enmity that Gregory for some unknown reason cherished toward him, she dreaded
their meeting. As Gregory watched her furtively, her brow contracted into a positive frown.
The following thoughts were the cause: "It will be exceedingly stiff and awkward to have two
guests in the house who are scarcely on speaking terms, and unless I can make something like
peace, it will be unendurable. Moreover, I don't want any strangers around, much less this
one, while Charles is here."

Thus in the secret of her soul Annie's hospitality gave out utterly, and in spirit she had
incontinently turned an unwelcome guest out of doors. Now that she had really won a vantage-ground
that could be used effectively, all her Christian and kindly purposes were forgotten in the
self-absorption that had suddenly mastered her.

The evening was a painful one to Gregory. His sense of loneliness was deepened, and nowhere
is such a feeling stronger than at a fireside where one feels that he has no right. Mr. Walton
was occupied that evening with some business papers. He had not a thought of discourtesy toward
his guest. Indeed, in the perfection of hospitality, he had adopted Gregory so completely into
his household that he felt that he could treat him as one of the family. And yet Mr. Walton
was also secretly uneasy at the prospect of entertaining hostile guests, and, with his knowledge
of the world, was not sure that peace between them could be made in an hour.

The disposition of those around us often creates an atmosphere, nothing tangible but something
felt; and the impression on Gregory's mind, that he belonged not to this household, but to
the outside world--that the circle of their lives did not embrace him, and that his visit might
soon come to an end without much regret on their part --was not without cause. And yet they
would have consciously failed in no duty of hospitality had he stayed for weeks.

But never before had Gregory so felt his isolation. He had but few relatives, and they were
not congenial. His life abroad, and neglect, had made them comparative strangers. But here,
in the home of his childhood, the dearest spot of earth, were those who might become equally
loved with it. In a dim, obscure way the impression was growing upon him that his best chance
for life and happiness still centred in the place where he had once known true life and happiness.
Annie Walton seemed to him the embodiment of life. She was governed and sustained by a principle
which he could not understand, and which from his soul he was beginning to covet.

His good father and mother had been like old Mr. Walton. Their voyage of life was nearly over
as he remembered them, and they were entering the quiet, placid waters of the harbor. Whether
they had reached their haven of rest through storm and temptation, he did not know, but felt
that they never could have had his unfortunate experience or been threatened with utter wreck.
They belonged to his happier yet vanished past, which could never return.

But Annie unexpectedly awakened hope for the present and future. This eager-eyed, joyous girl,
looking forward with almost a child's delight to the life he dreaded--this patient woman already
taking up the cares and burdens of her lot with cheerful acceptance--this strong, high- principled
maiden, facing and mastering temptation in the spirit of the olden time--this daughter of nature
was full of inspiration. Never had he found her society a weariness. On the contrary she had
stirred his slow, feeble pulse, and revived his jaded mind, from the first. Her pure, fresh
thought and feeling had been like a breath from an oasis to one perishing in the desert. But
chiefly had her kindness, delicacy, and generosity, when in his moral and physical weakness
he had been completely at her mercy, won his deepest gratitude. Also he felt that in all his
after life he could never even think of her touch upon his aching temples without an answering
thrill of his whole nature that appeared to have an innate sympathy with hers.

And yet the exasperating mystery of it all! While she was becoming the one source of life and
hope for him, while his very soul cried out for her friendship and sisterly regard (as he would
then have said), she seemed, in her preoccupation, unconscious of his existence, and he instinctively
felt that she would bid him "good-by" on the following day, perhaps, with a sense of relief,
and the current of her life flow on as smoothly and brightly as if he had never caused a passing
agitation.

With gnawing remorse he inwardly cursed his evil life and unworthy character, for these he
believed formed the hopeless gulf that separated them.

"It is the same," he said, in his exaggerating way, "as if a puddle should mirror the star
just above it, and, becoming enamored, should wish it to fall and be quenched in its foul depths."

But he did himself great wrong; for in the fact that Annie so attracted him he proved that
he possessed large capabilities of good.

He could not bear to see her sitting there so quietly forgetful of him, and so made several
vain attempts during the evening to draw her into conversation. Finding her disinclined to
talk, he at last ventured to ask her to sing. With something like coldness she replied, "Really,
Mr. Gregory, I am not in the mood for it this evening; besides, I am greatly fatigued."

What a careless, indifferent shrug he usually gave when fair ladies denied his requests! Now,
for some unaccountable reason, he flushed deeply and a sharp pain came into his heart. But
he only said, "Pardon me, Miss Walton, for not seeing this myself. But you know that I am selfishness
embodied, and your former good-nature leads me to presume."

Annie gave him a hurried smile, as she answered, "Another time I will try to keep up my character
better"; and then she was absorbed again in a picture among the hickory coals.

Like many who live in the country and are much alone, she was given to fits of abstraction
and long reveries. She had no idea how the time was passing, and meant to exert herself before
the evening was over for the benefit of her father and guest. But her lively imagination could
not endure interruption till it had completed some scenes connected with him she hoped so soon
to see. Moreover, as we have said, the tendency to self-absorption had been developing rapidly.

After the last rebuff, Gregory was very quiet, and soon rose and excused himself, saying that
he had taken longer walks than usual and needed rest.

Annie awakened, as if out of a dream, with a pang of self-reproach, and said, "I have been
a wretched hostess this evening. I hope you will forgive me. The fact is, I've been talked
out to-day."

"And I had not the wit to entertain and interest you, so I need forgiveness more. Good-night."

Mr. Walton looked up from his business papers and smiled genially over his spectacles and then
was as absorbed as before.

Annie sat down with a vague sense of discontent. With their guest, her dreams also had gone,
and she became conscious that she had treated him with almost rude neglect, and that he had
borne it in a spirit different from that which he usually showed. But she petulantly said to
herself, "I can't always be exerting myself for him as if he were a sick child."

But conscience replied, "You have so much to make you happy, and he so little! You are on the
eve of a great joy, and you might have given him one more pleasant evening."

But she met these accusations with a harshness all unlike herself. "It's his own fault that
he is not happy. He had no business to spoil his life."

"Yes," retorted conscience, "but you have promised and purposed to help him find the true life,
and now you wish him out of the way, and have lost one of your best opportunities and perhaps
your last; for he will not stay after Hunting comes;" and, self-condemned, she felt that she
had spent a very selfish and profitless evening.

For some reason she did not feel like staying to prayers with her father and Miss Eulie, who
now came in, but, printing a hasty kiss on Mr. Walton's cheek, said, "Good-night. I'm tired,
and going to bed." Even in her own room there was a malign influence at work that made her
devotion formal and brief, and she went to sleep, "out of sorts."

CHAPTER XXI

PASSION AND PENITENCE

The cloud on her brow had not disappeared on the ensuing morning when she came down to breakfast.
Unless the causes are removed, the bad moods of one day are apt to follow us into the next.

Annie was now entering upon one of those periods when, in accordance with a common expression,
"everything goes wrong," and the world develops a sudden perverseness that distracts and irritates
even the patient.

The butcher had neglected to fill the order for breakfast, and Jeff, also under the baleful
spell, had killed an ancient hen instead of a spring chicken, to supply the sudden need.

"Couldn't cotch nothin' else," he answered stolidly to Annie's sharp reprimand, so sharp that
Gregory, who was walking toward the barn, was surprised.

Zibbie was fuming in the broadest Scotch, and had spoiled her coffee, and altogether it was
a sorry breakfast to which they sat down that morning; and Annie's worried, vexed looks did
not make it more inviting. Gregory tried to appear unconscious, and directed his conversation
chiefly to Mr. Walton and Miss Eulie.

"Annie," said her father, humorously, "it seems to me that this fowl must have reminiscences
of the ark."

But she could not take a jest then, and pettishly answered that "if he kept such a stupid man
as Jeff, he could not expect anything else."

Annie was Jeff's best friend, and had interceded for him in some of his serious scrapes, but
her mood now was like a gusty day that gives discomfort to all.

After a few moments she said, suddenly, "O father, I forgot to tell you. I invited the Camdens
here to dinner to-day."

His face clouded instantly, and he looked exceedingly annoyed.

"I am very sorry to hear it," he said.

"Why so?" asked Annie, with an accent that Gregory had never heard her use toward her father.

"Because I shall have to be absent, for one reason. I meant to tell you about it last evening,
but you seemed so occupied with your own thoughts, and disappeared at last so suddenly, that
I did not get a chance. But there is no help for it. I have very important business that will
take me out to Woodville, and you know it requires a good long day to go and come."

"It will never do in the world for you to be away," cried Annie.

"Can't help it, my dear; it's business that must be attended to."

"But, father," she urged, "the Camdens are new people, and said to be very wealthy. We ought
to show them some attention. They were so cordial yesterday, and spoke so handsomely of you,
expressing a wish to meet you and be social, that I felt that I could not do otherwise than
invite them. For reasons you understand it may not be convenient to see them very soon after
to-day."

The old gentleman seemed to share his daughter's vexation, but from a different cause, and
after a moment said, "You are right; they are 'new people' in more senses than one, and appear
to me to be assuming a great deal more than good taste dictates in view of the past. As mistress
of my home I wish you to feel that you have the right to invite any one you please, within
certain limits. The Camdens are people that I would do any kindness to and readily help if
they were in trouble, but I do not wish to meet them socially."

Tears of shame and anger glistened in Annie's eyes as she said, "I'm sure you know very well
that I wish to entertain no vulgar, pushing people. I knew nothing of their 'past.' They seemed
pleasant when they called. They were said to have the means to be liberal if they wished, and
I thought they would be an acquisition to our neighborhood, and that we might interest them
in our church and other things."

"In my view," replied Mr. Walton, a little hotly, "the church and every good cause would be
better off without their money, for, in plain English, it was acquired in a way that you and
I regard as dishonorable. I'm very sorry they've come to spend it in our neighborhood. The
fact may not be generally known here, but it soon will be. I consider such people the greatest
demoralizers of the age, flaunting their ill-gotten wealth in the faces of the honest, and
causing the young to think that if they only get money, no matter how, society will receive
them all the same. I am annoyed beyond measure that we should seem to give them any countenance
whatever. Moreover, it is necessary that I go to Woodville."

"O dear!" exclaimed Annie, in a tone of real distress, "what shall I do? If I had only known
all this before!" Then, turning with sudden irritation to her father, she asked, "Why did you
not tell me about them?"

"Because you never asked, and I saw no occasion to. I do not like to speak evil of my neighbors,
even if it be true. I did not know of your call upon them till after it occurred, and then
remarked, if you will remember, that they were people that I did not admire."

"Yes," she exclaimed, in a tone of strong self-disgust, "I do remember your saying so, though
I had no idea you meant anything like what you now state. The wretched mystery of it all is,
why could I not have remembered it yesterday?"

"Well, my dear," replied the father, with the glimmer of a smile, "you were a bit preoccupied
yesterday; though I don't wonder at that."

"I see it all now," cried Annie, impetuously. "But it was with myself I was preoccupied, and
therefore I made a fool of myself. I was rude to you last night also, Mr. Gregory, so taken
up was I with my own wonderful being."

"Indeed, Miss Walton, I thought you were thinking of another," said he, with a keen glance,
and she blushed so deeply that he feared she was; but he added, quickly, "You once told me
that it was as wrong to judge one's self harshly as another. I assure you that I've no complaints
to make, but rather feel gratitude for your kindness. As to this other matter, it seems to
me that in your ignorance of these people you have acted very naturally."

"I'm sorry I did not tell you more about them," said her father. "I did intend to, but somehow
it escaped me."

"Well," said Annie, with a long breath, "I am fairly in the scrape. I've invited them, and
the question now is, what shall we do?"

The old merchant, with his intense repugnance to anything like commercial dishonesty, was deeply
perturbed. The idea of entertaining at his board as guest a man with whom he would not have
a business transaction was exceedingly disagreeable. Leaving the unsatisfactory breakfast half-finished,
he rose and paced the room in his perplexity. At last he spoke, as much to himself as to his
daughter. "It shall never be said that John Walton was deficient in hospitality. They have
been invited by one who had the right, so let them come, and be treated as guests ever are
at our house. This much is due to ourselves. But after to-day let our relations be as slight
as possible. Mr. Gregory, you are under no obligation to meet such people, and need not appear
unless you wish."

"With your permission I will be present, sir, and help Miss Walton entertain them. Indeed,
I can claim such slight superiority to these Camdens or any one else that I have no scruples."

"How is that?" asked Mr. Walton, with a grave, questioning look. "I trust you do not uphold
the theory that seems to prevail in some commercial circles, that any mode by which a man can
get money and escape State prison is right?"

"I imagine I am the last one in the world to uphold such a 'theory,'" replied Gregory, quickly,
with one of his expressive shrugs, "inasmuch as I am a poor man to-day because this theory
has been put in practice against me. No, Mr. Walton," he continued, with the dignity of truth,
"it is but justice to myself to say that my mercantile life has been as pure as your own, and
that is the highest encomium that I could pass upon it. At the same time it has been evident
to you from the first day I came under your roof that I am not the good man that you loved
in my father."

The old gentleman sighed deeply. He was too straightforward to utter some trite, smooth remark,
such as a man of the world might make. Regarding Gregory kindly, he said, almost as if it were
a prayer, "May his mantle fall on you. You have many traits and ways that remind me strongly
of him, and you have it in you to become like him."

Gregory shook his head in deep dejection, and said in a low tone, "No, never."

"You know not the power of God," said Mr. Walton, gravely. "At any rate, thank Him that He
has kept you from the riches of those who I am sorry to find must be our guests to-day."

The children now came in from their early visit to the chestnut-trees, and the subject was
dropped. Mr. Walton left the room, and Gregory also excused himself. Miss Eulie had taken no
part in the discussion. It was not in her nature to do so. She sat beaming with sympathy on
both Annie and her brother-in-law, and purposing to do all she could to help both out of the
dilemma. She felt sorry for them, and sorry for the Camdens and Gregory, and indeed everybody
in this troubled world; but such were her pure thoughts and spiritual life that she was generally
on the wing, so far above earthly things that they had little power to depress her.

The burden of the day fell upon Annie, and a heavy one she found it. Her lack of peace within
was reflected upon her face, and in her satellites that she usually managed with such quiet
grace. Zibbie was in one of her very worst tantrums, and when she heard that there was to be
company to dinner, seemed in danger of flying into fragments. The thistle, the emblem of her
land, was a meek and downy flower compared with this ancient dame. When she took up or laid
down any utensil, it was in a way that bade fair to reduce the kitchen to chaos before night.
Jeff had "got his back up" also about the hen, and was as stupid and sullen as only Jeff knew
how to be; and even quiet Hannah was almost driven to frenzy by Zibbie reproaching her for
being everything under heaven that she knew she was not. In her usual state of mind Annie could
have partly allayed the storm, and poured oil on the troubled waters, but now disquietude sat
on her own brow, and she gave her orders in the sharp, decisive tone that compels reluctant
obedience.

The day was raw and uncomfortable, and Gregory resolved to make his easy-chair by the parlor
fire the point from which he would watch the development of this domestic drama. He had no
vulgar, prying curiosity, but an absorbing interest in the chief actor; and was compelled to
admit that the being whom he had come to regard as faultless was growing human faster than
he liked.

This impression was confirmed when the children came tearing through the main hall past the
parlor to the dining-room opposite, which they entered, leaving the door open. Annie was there
preparing the dessert. Country house-keepers can rarely leave these matters to rural cooks,
and Zibbie could be trusted to sweeten nothing that day.

With exclamations of delight the children clamored to help, or "muss" a little in their own
way, a privilege often given them at such times. But Annie sent them out-of-doors again with
a tone and manner that caused them to tip-toe back past the parlor with a scared look on their
faces, and the dining-room door was shut with a bang.

Gregory was puzzled. Here was one who had foiled his most adroit temptations, and resisted
wrong in a way that was simply heroic, first showing something very like vanity and selfishness,
and then temper and passion on what seemed but slight provocation. He did not realize, as many
do not, that the petty vexations of life will often sting into the most humiliating displays
of weakness one who has the courage and strength to be a martyr. Generals who were as calm
and grand in battle as Mont Blanc in a storm have been known to fume like small beer, in camp,
at very slight annoyances.

Annie's spirit was naturally quick and imperious, brooking opposition from no one. She was
also fond of approbation. She rated Gregory's hollow French gallantry at its true worth, but
his subsequent sincere respect and admiration, after their mountain adventure, had unconsciously
elated her, especially as she felt that she had earned them well.

Thus, when he had not intended it, and had given over as hopeless his purpose to tempt her,
and dropped it in self-loathing that he should ever have entertained it, he had by his honest
gratitude and esteem awakened the dormant vanity which was more sensitive to tributes to her
character than to mere personal compliments. The attention she had received the day before
had developed this self-complacency still more, and the nice balance of her moral life had
been disturbed.

It seems that the tempter watches for every vantage. At any rate, as she expressed it, "everything
went wrong" that day. One weakness, one wrong, prepares the way for another as surely as when
one soldier of Diabolus gets within the city he will open the gates to others; and Annie's
temper, that she had so long and prayerfully schooled, was the weak point inevitably assailed.
She was found with her armor off. She had closed the preceding day and entered on the present
with the form and not the reality of prayer. Therefore it was Annie Walton alone who was coping
with temptation. She felt that all was wrong without and within. She felt that she ought to
go to God at once in acknowledgment and penitence, and regain her peace; but pride and passion
were aroused. She was hurried and worried, full of impotent revolt at herself and everything.
She was in no mood for the dreaded self- examination that she knew must come. She was like
a little wayward child, that, while it loves its parents, yet grieves and wrongs them by lack
of obedience and simple trust, and having wronged them, partly from pride and partly from fear,
does not humbly seek reconciliation.

The obnoxious guests came, and the dinner followed. Mr. Walton was the embodiment of stately
courtesy, but it was a courtesy due to John Walton rather than to them, and it somewhat awed
and depressed the Camdens. Zibbie had done her best to spoil the dinner, and, in spite of Annie,
had succeeded tolerably well. Only the dessert, which Annie had made, did credit to her housekeeping.
Hannah waited on them as if she were assisting at their obsequies. Altogether it was a rather
heavy affair, though Gregory honestly did his best to entertain, and talked on generalities
and life abroad, which the Camdens were glad to hear about, so incessantly that he scarcely
had time to eat. But he was abundantly rewarded by a grateful look from Annie.

As for herself, she could not converse connectedly or well. She was trammelled by her feeling
toward the guests; she was so vexed with herself, mortified at the dinner, and angry with Zibbie,
whom she mentally vowed to discharge at once, that she felt more like crying than talking graceful
nonsense; for the Camdens soon proved themselves equal only to chit-chat. She sat at her end
of the table, red, flurried, and nervous, as different as possible from the refined, elegant
hostess that she could be.

Gregory was also much interested in observing how one so truthful would act under the circumstances,
and he saw that she was sorely puzzled continually by her efforts to be both polite and honest.

The Camdens were puzzled also, and severely criticised their entertainers, mentally concluding
and afterward asserting, with countless variations, that Miss Walton was wonderfully overrated--that
she was a poor housekeeper, and, they should judge, but little accustomed to good society.

"I never saw a girl so flustered," Mrs. Camden would remark, complacently. "Perhaps our city
style rather oppressed her; and as for Mr. Walton, he put on so much dignity that he leaned
over backward. They evidently don't belong to our set."

That was just the trouble, and Mrs. Camden was right and wrong at the same time.

Their early departure was satisfactory to both parties. Mr. Walton drew a long breath of immeasurable
relief, and then called briskly to Jeff, who was coming up from the garden, "Harness Dolly
to my buggy."

"Why, father, where are you going?" exclaimed Annie.

"To Woodville."

"Now, father--" began Annie, laying hold of his arm.

"Not a word, my dear; I must go."

"But it will be late in the night before you can get back. The day is cold and raw, and it
looks as if it would rain."

"I can't help it. It's something I can't put off. Hurry, Jeff, and get ready to go with me."

"O dear!" cried Annie; "this is the worst of all. Let me go for you-- please do."

"I'm not a child," said the old gentleman, irritably. "Since I could not go this morning, I
must go now. Please don't worry me. It's public business that I have no right to delay, and
I promised that it should be attended to today;" and with a hasty "good-by" he took his overcoat
and started.

Annie was almost beside herself with vexation and self-reproach, and her feelings must find
vent somewhere. Gregory prudently retired to his room.

"There's Zibbie," she thought; "I'll teach her one lesson;" and she went to the kitchen and
discharged the old servant on the spot.

Zibbie was in such a reckless state of passion that she didn't care if the world came to an
end. The only comfort Annie got in this direction was a volley of impudence.

"I hod discharged mesel' afore ye spoke," said the irate dame. "An' ye think I'm gang to broil
an ould hen for a spring chicken in peace and quietness, ye're a' wrong. An' then to send that
dour nagur a speerin' roun' among my fowl that I've raised from babies--I'll na ston it. I'll
gang, I'll gang, but ye'll greet after the ould 'ooman for a' o' that."

Annie then retreated to the sitting-room, where Miss Eulie was placidly mending Susie's torn
apron, and poured into her ears the story of her troubles.

"To be sure--to be sure," Aunt Eulie would answer, soothingly; "but then, Annie dear, it all
won't make any difference a hundred years from now."

This only irritated Annie more, and at the same time impressed her with her own folly in being
so disturbed by comparative trifles.

Gregory found his room chill and comfortless, therefore he put on his overcoat, and started
for a walk, full of surprise and painful musings. As he was descending the stairs, Johnny came
running in, crying in a tone of real distress, "Oh, Aunt Annie, Aunt Annie, I'm so sorry, so
very sorry--"

Annie came running out of the sitting-room, exclaiming sharply, "What on earth is the matter
now? Hasn't there been trouble enough for one day?"

"I'm so sorry," sobbed the little boy, "but I got a letter at the post-office, and I--I--lost
it coming across the lots, and I--I--can't find it."

This was too much. This was the ardently-looked-for letter that had glimmered like a star of
hope and promise of better things throughout this miserable day, and Annie lost all control
of herself. Rushing upon the child, she cried, "You naughty, careless boy! I'll give you one
lesson"; and she shook him so violently that Gregory's indignation got the better of him, and
he said, in a low, deep tone, "Miss Walton, the child says he is 'very, very sorry.' He has
not meant to do wrong."

Annie started back as if she were committing sacrilege, and covered her face with her hands.
Her back was toward Gregory, but he could see the hot blood mantling her very neck. She stood
there for a moment, trembling like a leaf, and he, repenting of his hasty words, was about
to apologize, when she suddenly caught the boy in her arms, and sped past him up the stairs
to her own room.

To his dying day he would never forget the expression of her face.

It cannot be described. It was the look of a noble spirit, deeply wounded, profoundly penitent.
Her intense feeling touched him, and the rough October winds brushed a tear from his own eyes
more than once before he returned.

CHAPTER XXII

NOT A HEROINE, BUT A WOMAN

The cold, cynical man of the world was in a maze. He was deeply and painfully surprised at
Miss Walton, and scarcely less so at himself. How could he account for the tumult at his heart?
When he first saw that outburst of passion against a trembling, pleading child, he felt that
he wished to leave the house then and forever. The next moment, when he saw Annie's face as
she convulsively clasped the boy to her breast, and with supernatural strength fled to the
refuge of her room, he was not only instantly disarmed of anger, but touched and melted as
he had never been before.

Feeling is sometimes so intense that it is like the lightning, and burns its way instantly
to the consciousness of others. Words of condemnation would have died on the lips of the sternest
judge had he seen Annie's face. It would have shown him that the harshest things that he could
utter were already anticipated in unmeasured self- upbraidings.

From anger and disgust Gregory passed to the profoundest pity. The children's unbounded affection
for Annie proved that she was usually kind and patient toward them. A little thought convinced
him that the act he saw was a sudden outburst of passion for which the exasperating events
of the day had been a preparation. Her face showed as no language could how sincere and deep
would be her repentance. He had not gone very far into the early twilight of a grove before
he was conscious of a strong and secret exultation.

"She is not made of different clay from others," he said. "She cannot condemn me so utterly
now; and, in view of what I have seen, she cannot loftily deny the kinship of human weakness.

"What a nature she has, with its subterranean fires! She is none of your cool, calculating
creatures, who cipher out from day to day what is policy to do. She will act rightly till there
is an irrepressible irruption, and then, beware. And yet these ebullitions enrich her life
as the lava flow does the sides of Vesuvius. I shall be greatly disappointed if she is not
ten times more kind, sympathetic, and self- forgetful than she was before; and as for that
boy, she will keep him in the tallest clover for weeks to come, to make up for this.

"How piquant she is! I do not fear her quick, flame-like spirit when it is combined with so
much conscience and principle. Indeed, I like her passion. It warms my cold, heavy heart. I
wish she had shaken me, who deserved it, instead of the child, and if any makings-up like that
in yonder room could follow, I would like to be shaken every day in the week. It would make
a new man of me."

In the excitement of his feelings, he had gone further than he had intended, and the dusk was
deepening fast when he reached the house on his return. He felt not a little uneasy as to his
reception after the rebuke he had given, but counted much on Annie's just and generous disposition.
He entered quietly at a side door and passed through the dining-room into the hall. The lamp
in the parlor was unlighted, but the bright wood fire shed a soft, uncertain radiance throughout
the room. A few notes of prelude were struck on the piano, and he knew that Miss Walton was
there. Stepping silently forward opposite the open door, he stood in the dark hall watching
her as she sung the following words:

    "My Father, once again Thy wayward child
      In sorrow, shame, and weakness comes to Thee,
    Confessing all my sin, my passion wild,
      My selfishness and petty vanity.

    "O Jesus, gentle Saviour, at Thy feet
      I fall, where often I have knelt before;
    Thou wilt not spurn, nor charge me with deceit,
      Because old faults have mastered me once more.

    "Thou knowest that I would be kind and true,
      And that I hate the sins that pierced Thy side;
    Thou seest that I often sadly view
      The wrong that in my heart will still abide.

    "But Thou didst come such erring ones to save,
      And weakness wins Thy strong and tender love;
    So not in vain I now forgiveness crave,
      And cling to hopes long stored with Thee above.

    "And yet I plead that Thou would'st surely keep
      My weak and human heart in coming days;
    Though now in penitence I justly weep,
      O fill my future life with grateful praise."

As in tremulous, melting tones she sung this simple prayer with tears glistening in her eyes,
Gregory was again conscious of the strong, answering emotion which the presence of deep feeling
in those bound to us by some close tie of sympathy often excites. But far more than mere feeling
moved him now. Her words and manner vivified an old truth familiar from infancy, but never
realized or intelligently believed-- the power of prayer to secure practical help from God.

How often men have lived and died poor just above mines of untold wealth! Gaunt famine has
been the inmate of households while there were buried treasures under the hearthstone. So multitudes
in their spiritual life are weak, despairing, perishing, when by the simple divinely appointed
means of prayer they might fill their lives with strength and fulness. How long men suffered
and died with diseases that seemed incurable, before they discovered in some common object
a potent remedy that relieved pain and restored health!

As is the case with many brought up in Christian homes, with no one thing was Gregory more
familiar than prayer. For many years he had said prayers daily, and yet he had seldom in all
his life prayed, and of late years had come to be a practical infidel in regard to this subject.
People who only say prayers, and expect slight, or no results from them, or are content year
after year to see no results--who lack simple, honest, practical faith in God's word, such
as they have in that of their physician or banker--who only feel that they ought to pray, and
that in some vague, mystical manner it may do them good, are very apt to end as sceptics in
regard to its efficacy and value. Or they may become superstitious, and continue to say prayers
as the poor Indian mutters his incantation to keep off the witches. God hears prayer when His
children cry to Him--when His faithful friends speak to Him straight and true from their hearts;
and such know well that they are answered.

As Gregory looked at and listened to Annie Walton, he could no more believe that she was expressing
a little aimless religious emotion, just as she would sing a sentimental ballad, than he could
think that she was only showing purposeless filial affection if she were hanging on her father's
arm and pleading for something vital to her happiness. The thought flashed across him, "Here
may be the secret of her power to do right--the help she gets from a source above and beyond
herself. Here may be the key to both her strength and weakness. Here glimmers light even for me."

Annie was about to sing again, but the interest which she had awakened was so strong that he
could not endure delay. Anxiety as to his personal reception was forgotten, and he stepped
forward and interrupted her with a question.

"Miss Walton, do you honestly believe that?"

"Believe what?" said she, hastily, quite startled.

"What I gathered from the hymn you sung--that your prayer is really heard and answered?"

"Why, certainly I believe it," said Annie, in a shocked and pained tone. "Do you think me capable
of mockery in such things? And yet," she added, sadly, "perhaps after to-day you think me capable
of anything."

"Now you do both yourself and me wrong," Gregory eagerly replied. "I do believe you are sincerely
trying to obey your conscience. Did I not see your look of sorrow as you passed me on the stairs?--when
shall I forget it! Remember words that must have been inspired, which you once quoted to me--

     "'Who by repentance is not satisfied
      Is not of heaven nor earth,'

and pardon me when I tell you that I have been listening the last few moments out in the hall.
Your tones and manner would melt the heart of an infidel, and they have made me wish that I
were not so unbelieving. Forgive me for even putting such thoughts in your mind--I feel it
is wicked and selfish in me to do it--but how do you know that your prayer, though so direct
and sincere, was not sound lost in space?"

"Because it has been answered," she replied, eagerly. "Peace came even as I spoke the words.
Because whenever I really pray to God he answers me."

They now stood on opposite sides of the hearth, with the glowing fire between them. In its
light Annie's wet eyes glistened, but she had forgotten herself in her sincere and newly awakened
interest in him whom she had secretly hoped and purposed before to lead to better things. It
had formed no small part of her keen self-reproach that she had forgotten that purpose, and
wished him out of the way, just as she was beginning to gain a decided influence over him for
good. After what he had witnessed that afternoon she felt that he would never listen to her again.

He would not had he detected the slightest tinge of acting or insincerity on her part, but
her penitence had been as real as her passion.

She was glad and grateful indeed when he approached her again in the spirit he now manifested.

As she stood there in the firelight, self-forgetful, conscious only of her wish to say some
words that would be like light to him, her large, humid eyes turned up to his face, she made
a picture that his mother would like to see.

He leaned against the mantel and looked dejectedly into the fire. After a moment he said, sadly,
"I envy you, Miss Walton. I wish I could believe in a personal God who thought about us and
cared for us --that is, each one of us. Of course I believe in a Supreme Being--a great First
Cause; but He hides Himself behind the stars; He is lost to me in His vast universe. I think
my prayers once had an effect on my own mind, and so did me some good. But that's past, and
now I might as well pray to gravitation as to anything else."

Then, turning to her, he caught her wistful, interested look--an expression which said plainly,
"I want to help you," and it touched him. He continued, feelingly, "Perhaps you are not conscious
of it, but you now look as if you cared whether I was good or bad, was sad or happy, lived
or died. If I could only see that God cared in something the same way! He no doubt intends
to do what is best for the race in the long run, but that may involve my destruction. I dread
His terrible, inexorable laws."

"Alas!" said Annie, tears welling up into her eyes, "I am not wise enough to argue out these
matters and demonstrate the truth. I suppose it can be done by those who know how."

"I doubt it," said he, shaking his head decisively.

"Well, I can tell you only what I feel and know."

"That is better than argument--that is what I would like. You are not a weak, sentimental woman,
full of mysticism and fancies, and I should have much confidence in what you know and feel."

"Do not say that I am not a weak woman; I have shown you otherwise. Be sincere with me, for
I am with you. Well, it seems to me that this question of prayer is simply one of fact. We
know that God answers prayer, not only because He said He would, but because He does. From
my own experience I am as certain of it as of my existence. I think that many who sneer or
doubt in regard to prayer are very unfair. I ask you, is it scientific for men to say, 'Nothing
is true save what we have seen and know ourselves?' How that would limit one's knowledge. If
some facts are discovered in Europe and established by a few proper witnesses, we believe them
here. Now in every age multitudes have said that it was a fact that God heard and answered
their prayers. What right has any one to ignore these truths any more than any other truths
of human experience? I ask my earthly father for something. The next day I find it on my dressing-table.
Is it a delusion to believe that he heard and granted my request? When I ask my Heavenly Father
for outward things, He sometimes gives them, and sometimes He does not, as He sees is best
for me, just as my parents did when I was a little child. And I have already seen that He has
often been kinder in refusing. But when I ask for that which will meet my deeper and spiritual
needs I seldom ask in vain. If you should ask me how I know it, I in return ask how you know
that you are ill, or well, that you are glad or sad, or tired, or anything about yourself that
depends on your own inner consciousness? If I should say unjust, insulting things to you now,
how would you know you were angry? If I should say, Mr. Gregory, you are mocking me; what I
am now saying has no interest for you; you don't hear me, you don't understand me, you are
thinking of something else, what kind of proof to the contrary could you offer? Suppose that
I should say I want mathematical proof that you do feel an interest, or physical proof--something
that I can measure, weigh, or see--should I be reasonable? Do I make it clear to you why I
say I know this?"

"Clearer than it was ever made to me before. I cannot help seeing that you are sincere and
sure about it. But pardon me--I've got in such an inveterate habit of doubting--are not good
Catholics just as sure about the Virgin and the saints hearing and answering them? and do not
pagans feel the same way about their deities?"

"Now, Mr. Gregory," said Annie, with a little indignant reproach in her tone, "do you think
it just and reasonable to compare my faith, or that of any intelligent Christian, with the
gross superstitions you name? Christianity is not embraced only by the ignorant and weak- minded:
multitudes of the best and ripest scholars in the world are honest believers."

"Indeed, Miss Walton, I did not mean you to draw any such inference as that," replied he, hastily
and in some confusion.

"I do not see how any other can be drawn," she continued; "and I know from what I have read
and heard that unbelievers usually seek to give that impression. But it's not a fair one. The
absurdities of paganism, monkish legends, and even the plausible errors of the Romish Church,
will not endure the light of intelligent education; but the more I know the more I see the
beauty and perfection of the Christian religion and the reasonableness of prayer, and so it
is with far stronger and wiser heads than mine. Your father and mine were never men to be imposed
upon, nor to believe anything just because they were told to do so when children."

"Really, Miss Walton, you said you couldn't argue about this matter. I think you can, like
a lawyer."

"If you mean that I am using a lawyer's proverbial sleight of hand, I'm sorry."

"I don't mean that at all, but that you put your facts in such a way that it's hard to meet them."

"I only try to use common-sense. It's about the only sense I have. But I was in hopes you did
not want to meet what I say adversely, but would like to believe."

"I would, Miss Walton, honestly I would; but wishes go little way against stubborn doubt. This
one now rises: How is it that scientific men are so apt to become infidel in regard to the
Bible and its teachings, and especially prayer?"

"I'm sure I hardly know," she answered, with a sigh; "but I will tell you what I think. I don't
believe the majority of them know much about either the Bible or prayer. With my little smattering
of geology I should think it very presuming to give an opinion contrary to that held by the
best authorities in that science; and I think it very presuming in those who rarely look into
a Bible and never pray, to tell those who read and pray daily that they don't know what they
do know. Then again, scientific people often apply gross material tests to matters of faith
and religious experience. The thing is absurd. Suppose a man should seek to investigate light
with a pair of scales that could not weigh anything less than a pound. There is a spiritual
and moral world as truly as a physical, and spiritual facts are just as good to build on as
any other; and I should think they ought to be better, because the spirit is the noblest part
of us. A man who sees only one side of a mountain has no right to declare that the other is
just like it. Then again your scientific oracles are always contradicting one another, and
upsetting one another's theories. Science to-day laughs at the absurdities believed by the
learned a hundred years ago; and so will much that is now called science, and because of which
men doubt the Bible, be laughed at in the future. But my belief is the same substantially as
that of Paul, St. Augustine, Luther, and the best people of my own age; and Luther, who did
more for the world than any other mere man, said that to 'pray well was to work well.'"

When Annie was under mental excitement, she was a rapid, fluent talker, and this was especially
her condition this evening. As she looked earnestly at Gregory while she spoke, her dark eyes
glowing with feeling and intelligence and lighting her whole face, he was impressed more than
he could have been by the labored arguments of a cool, logical scholar. Her intense earnestness
put a soul into the body of her words. He was affected more than he wished her to know, more
than was agreeable to his pride. What she had said seemed so perfectly true and real to her
that for the time she made it true to him; and yet to admit that his long-standing doubts could
not endure so slight an assault as this, was to show that they had a very flimsy basis. Moreover,
he knew that when, left to himself, he should think it all over, new questions would rise that
could not be answered, and new doubts return. Therefore he could not receive now what he might
be disposed to doubt to-morrow. He was a trifle bewildered, and wanted time to think. He was
as much interested in Miss Walton as in what she was saying, and when her words proved that
she was a thoughtful woman, and could be the intelligent companion of any man, the distracting
fear grew stronger that when she came to know him well, she would coldly stand aloof. The very
thought was unendurable. In all the world, only in the direction of Annie Walton seemed there
any light for him. So to gain time he instinctively sought to give a less serious turn to the
conversation, by saying, "Come, Miss Walton, this is the best preaching I've ever heard. It
seems to me quite unusual to find a young lady so interested and well versed in these matters.
You must have given a good deal of thought and reading to the subject."

Annie looked disappointed. She had hoped for a better result from her earnest words than a
compliment and a little curiosity as to herself. But she met him in his own apparent mood,
and said, "Now see how easily imposed upon your sceptical people are! I could palm myself off,
like Portia, as a Daniel come to judgment, and by a little discreet silence gain a blue halo
as a woman of deep research and profound reading. Just the contrary is true. I am not a very
great reader on any subject, and certainly not on theology and kindred topics. The fact is
I am largely indebted to my father. He is interested in the subjects and takes pains to explain
much to me that would require study; and since mother died he has come to talk to me very much
as he did to her. But it seems to me that all I have said is very simple and plain, and you
surely know that my motive was not to air the little instruction I have received."

Gregory's policy forsook him as he saw her expression of disappointment; and as he looked at
her flushed and to him now lovely face, acting upon a sudden impulse he asked, "Won't you please
tell me your motive?"

His manner and tone convinced her in a moment that he was more moved and interested than she
had thought, and answering with a like impulse on her part, she said, frankly, "Mr. Gregory,
pardon me for saying it, but from the very first day of your visit it seemed clear to me that
you were not living and feeling as those who once made this your home could wish, and the thought
was impressed upon me, impressed strongly, that perhaps God had sent you in your feeble health
and sadness (for you evidently were depressed in mind also), to this place of old and holy
memories, that you might learn something better than this world's philosophy. I have hoped
and prayed that I might be able to help you. But when to-day," she continued, turning away
her head to hide the rising tears, "I showed such miserable weakness, I felt that you would
never listen to me again on such subjects, and would doubt more than ever their reality, and
it made me very unhappy. I feel grateful that you have listened to me so patiently. I hope
you won't let my weakness hurt my cause. Now you see what a frank, guileless conspirator I
am," she added, trying to smile at him through her tears.

While she spoke Gregory bent upon her a look that tried to search her soul. But the suspicious
man of the world could not doubt her perfect sincerity. Her looks and words disclosed her thought
as a crystal stream reveals a white pebble over which it flows. He stepped forward and took
her hand with a pressure that caused it pain for hours after, but he trusted himself to say
only, "You are my good angel, Miss Walton. Now I understand your influence over me," and then
abruptly left the room.

But he did not understand her influence. A man seldom does when he first meets the woman whose
words, glances, and presence have the subtle power to fill his thoughts, quicken his pulse,
stir his soul, and awaken his whole nature into new life. He usually passes through a luminous
haze of congeniality, friendship, Platonic affinity, or even brotherly regard, till something
suddenly clears up the mist and he finds, like the first man, lonely in Eden, that there is
but one woman for him in all the world.

Gregory was in the midst of the cloud, but it seemed very bright around him as he paced his
room excitedly.

CHAPTER XXIII

GREGORY'S FINAL CONCLUSION IN REGARD TO MISS WALTON

Annie Walton was now no longer an enigma to Gregory. He had changed his views several times
in regard to her. First, she was a commonplace, useful member of the community, in a small
way, and part of the furniture of a well-ordered country-house--plain furniture too, he had
said to himself. But one evening in her company had convinced him that such a Miss Walton was
a fiction of his own mind, and he who had come to regard average society girls as a weariness
beyond endurance was interested in her immediately.

Then her truth and unselfishness, and the strong religious element in her character, had been
a constant rebuke to him, but he had soothed himself with the theory that she differed from
others only in being untempted. He then had resolved to amuse himself, ease his conscience,
and feed his old grudge against her sex, by teaching the little saint that she was only a weak,
vain creature. Yet she had sustained not only his temptations, but another ordeal, so searching
and terrible that it transformed her into a heroine, a being of superior clay to that of ordinary
mortals. "It's her nature to be good, mine to be bad," he had said; "I'm a weed, she is a flower."
But Annie herself had rudely dispelled this illusion.

Now he saw her to be a woman who might, did she yield to the evil within her and without, show
all the vanity, weakness, and folly generally, of which he had at first believed her capable,
but who, by prayer and effort, daily achieved victories over herself. In addition, she had
manifested the most beautiful and God-like trait that can ennoble human character--the desire
to save and sweeten others' lives. To have been lectured and talked to on the subject of religion
in any conventional way by one outside of his sympathies would have been as repulsive as useless,
but Annie had the tact to make her effort appear like angelic ministry.

There is that about every truly refined woman with a large loving heart which is irresistible.
The two qualities combined give a winning grace that is an "open sesame" everywhere. The trouble
is that culture and polish are too often the sheen of an icicle.

He believed he saw just her attitude toward him. It reminded him of Miss Bently's efforts in
his behalf, but with the contrast that existed between Miss Bently and Annie. He now wondered
that he could have been interested in such a vain, shallow creature as Mrs. Grobb had proved
herself, and he excused himself on the ground that he had idealized her into something that
she was not. All that Annie said and did had the solidity of truth, and not the hollowness
of affectation. And yet there was one thing that troubled him. While her effort to help him
out of his morbid, unhappy state was so sincere, she showed no special personal interest in
himself, such as he had in her. If he should now go away, she would place him merely in the
outer circle of her friends or acquaintance, and make good the old saying, "Out of sight, out
of mind." But already the conviction was growing strong that it would be long before she would
be out of his mind. Though he had plenty of pride, as we have seen, he was not conceited, and
from long familiarity with society could readily detect the difference between the regard she
would feel for a man personally attractive and the interest of aroused sympathies which she
might have in any one, and which her faith and nature led her to have in every one. Of course
he was not satisfied with the latter, and it was becoming one of his dearest hopes to awaken
a personal feeling, though of just what kind he had not yet even defined to himself.

When the tea-bell rang, much later than usual on account of the chaos of the day, he was glad
to go down. Her society was far pleasanter than his own, and future events might make everything
clearer.

His supposition in regard to Johnny was correct. As he descended the stairs, the boy came out
of the sitting-room, holding Annie tightly by the hand and beaming upon her like the sun after
a shower, and when he found by his plate a huge apple that had been roasted specially for him,
his cup of happiness was full and he was ready for another shaking. If the apple once caused
discord it here confirmed peace.

The supper was as inviting as the dinner had been forbidding, indicating a change of policy
in the kitchen cabinet. In fact, after Zibbie cooled off, she found that she was not ready
for "the world to come to an end" (or its equivalent, her leaving the Waltons after so many
years of service and kindness). She had not yet reached the point of abject apology, though
she knew she would go down on her old rheumatic knees rather than leave her ark of refuge and
go out into the turbulent waters of the world; still she made propitiating overtures in the
brownest of buttered toast, and a chicken salad that might have been served as ambrosia on
Mount Olympus. Zibbie was a guileless strategist, for in the success of the supper she proved
how great had been her malign ingenuity and deliberation in spoiling the dinner. She could
never claim that it was accidental. Hannah no longer waited as if it were a funeral occasion,
and the domestic skies were fast brightening up, except in one quarter: Mr. Walton's chair
was vacant, and Gregory noticed that Annie often looked wistfully and sadly toward it.

With the sensitiveness of one who habitually hid his deeper feeling from the world, Gregory
tried to act as if his last conversation with Annie had been upon the weather; and as might
be expected of refined people, no allusion was made to the unpleasant features of the day.
Neither then nor afterward was a word adverse to the Camdens spoken. They had been guests,
and that was enough for the Waltons' nice sense of courtesy. Only Susie, with a little sigh
of relief, gave expression to the general feeling by saying, "Somehow I feel kind of light
to- night. I felt dreadfully heavy this morning."

Annie, with a smile on her lips and something like a tear in her eye, noticed the child's remark
by adding, "I think we should all feel light if grandpa were only here."

After supper she sung to the children and told them a bedtime story, and then with a kiss of
peace sent them off to their dream-wanderings.

During Annie's absence from the parlor, Gregory remained in his room. He was in no mood to
talk with any one else. Even Miss Eulie's gentle patter of words would fall with a sting of pain.

When Annie came down to the parlor she said, "Now, Mr. Gregory, I will sing as much as you
wish, to make up for last evening. Indeed I must do something to get through the hours till
father's return, for I feel so anxious and self-reproachful about him."

"And so make happiness for others out of your pain," said he. "Why don't you complain and fret
all the evening and make it uncomfortable generally?"

"I have done enough of that for one day. What will you have?"

An impulse prompted him to say "You," but he only said, "Your own choice," and walked softly
up and down the room while she sung, now a ballad, now a hymn, and again a simple air from
an opera, but nothing light or gay.

He was taking a dangerous course for his own peace. As we have seen, Annie's voice was not
one to win special admiration. It was not brilliant and highly cultivated, and had no very
great compass. She could not produce any of the remarkable effects of the trained vocalist.
But it was exceedingly sweet in the low, minor notes. It was sympathetic, and so colored by
the sentiment of the words that she made a beautiful language of song. It was a voice that
stole into the heart, and kept vibrating there long hours after, like an Aeolian harp just
breathed upon by a dying zephyr.

As was often the case, she forgot her auditor, and began to reveal herself in this mode of
expression so natural to her, and to sing as she did long evenings when alone. At times her
tones would be tremulous with pathos and feeling, and again strong and hopeful. Then, as if
remembering the great joy that soon would be hers in welcoming back her absent lover, it grew
as tender and alluring as a thrush's call to its mate.

     "O'er the land and o'er the sea
     Swiftly fly my thoughts to thee;
     Haste thee and come back to me:
       I'm waiting.

     "Thou away, how sad my song!
     When alone, the days are long;
     Soon thou'lt know how glad and strong
       My welcome.

     "Haste thee, then, o'er sea and land:
     Quickly join our loving band,
     Waiting here to clasp thy hand
       In greeting."

"Indeed, Miss Walton," said Gregory, leaning upon the piano, "that would bring me from the
antipodes."

She did not like his tone and manner, and also became conscious that in her choice of a ballad
she had expressed thoughts that were not for him; so she tried to turn the matter lightly off
by saying, "Where you probably were in your thoughts. What have you been thinking about all
this long time while I have fallen into the old habit of talking to myself over the piano?"

"You, I might say; but I should add, in truth, what you have said to me this evening."

"I hope only the latter."

"Chiefly, I've been enjoying your singing. You have a very peculiar voice. You don't 'execute'
or 'render' anything, any more than a bird does. I believe they have been your music teachers."

"Crows abound in our woods," she answered, laughing.

"So do robins and thrushes."

Her face suddenly had an absent look as if she did not hear him. It was turned from the light,
or the rich color that was mantling it would have puzzled him, and might have inspired hope.
With some abruptness and yet hesitation, such as is often noted when a delicate subject is
broached, she said, "Mr. Gregory, I wish I could make peace between you and Mr. Hunting. I
think you are not friendly."

As she looked to see the effect of her remark the light shone on his face, and she was again
deeply pained to see how instantly it darkened. For a moment he did not reply; then in a cold,
constrained voice, he said, "He is a friend of the family, I suppose."

"Yes," she replied, eagerly.

"I too would like to be regarded as a friend, and especially to you; so I ask it as a great
personal favor that you will not mention that gentleman's name again during the brief remnant
of my visit."

"Do you mean any imputation against him?" she asked, hotly.

Policy whispered, "Don't offend her. Hunting may be a near relation;" so he said, quietly,
"Gentlemen may have difficulties concerning which they do not like to speak. I have made no
imputation against him whatever, but I entreat you to grant my request."

Annie was not satisfied, but sat still with knit brows. At that moment she heard her father's
step and ran joyfully to meet him. He had come home chilled from a long ride in the raw wind,
and she spent the rest of the evening in remorseful ministrations to his comfort. As she flitted
around him, served his tea and toast, and petted him generally, Gregory felt that he would
ride for a night after the "Wild Huntsman" to be so treated.

He also rightly felt that Annie's manner was a little cool toward him. It was not in her frank,
passionate nature to feel and act the same toward one who had just expressed such bitter hostility
toward her lover. But the more he thought of it the more determined he was that there should
be no alienation between them on account of Hunting.

"Curse him!" he muttered, "he has cost me too much already."

He had the impression that Hunting was a relative of the family. That he was the accepted lover
of the pure and true girl that he himself was unconsciously learning to love was too monstrous
a thought to be entertained. Still Annie's words and manner caused him some sharp pangs of
jealousy, till he cast the very idea away in scorn as unworthy of both himself and her.

"Evil as my life has been, it is white compared with his," he said to himself.

In accordance with his purpose to keep the vantage-ground already gained, he was geniality
itself, and so entertained Miss Eulie and Mr. Walton that Annie soon relented and smiled upon
him as kindly as ever. She was in too humbled and softened a mood that evening to be resentful,
except under great provocation, and she was really very grateful to Gregory for his readiness
to overlook her weakness and give her credit for trying to do right. Indeed, his sincere admiration
and outspoken desire for her esteem inclined her toward him, for was she not a woman?

"After all," she thought, "he has said nothing against Charles. They have had a quarrel, and
he no doubt is the one to blame. He is naturally very proud and resentful, and would be all
the more so in that degree that he was wrong himself. If I can help him become a Christian,
making peace will be an easy affair; so I will not lose the hold that I have gained upon him.
When Charles comes he will tell me all about it, and I will make him treat Gregory in such
a way that enmity cannot last."

How omnipotent girls imagine themselves to be with those who swear they will do anything under
heaven to please them, but who usually go on in the old ways!

It was late when the family separated for the night, but later far when Gregory retired. The
conclusion of his long revery was that in Annie Walton existed his only chance of life and
happiness. She seemed to possess the power to wake up all the man left in him, and if there
were any help in God, she only could show him how to find it.

Thus his worldly wisdom had taught him, as many others had been taught, to lean on a human
arm for his main support and chief hope, while possibly in the uncertain future some help from
heaven might be obtained. He was like a sickly plant in the shade saying to itself, "Yonder
ray of sunlight would give me new life," while it has no thought of the sun from which the
ray came. He truly wished to become a good man for his own sake as well as Annie's, for he
had sufficient experience in the ills of evil; but he did not know that a loving God does not
make our only chance dependent on the uncertain action and imperfect wisdom of even the best
of earthly friends. The One who began His effort of saving man by dying for him will not afterward
neglect the work, or commit it wholly to weak human hands.

The next morning, being that of Saturday, brought Annie many duties, and these, with callers,
so occupied her time that Gregory saw but little of her. The shadow between them seemed to
have passed away, and she treated him with the utmost kindness. But there was a new shadow
on her face that he could not understand, and after breakfast he said to her as they were passing
to the parlor, "Miss Walton, you seem out of spirits. I hope nothing painful has happened."

"Jeff found my lost letter this morning," she said, "and I have been deservedly punished anew,
for it brought me unpleasant tidings;" and she hastily left the room, as if not wishing to
speak further on the matter.

It had indeed inflicted a heavy disappointment, for it was from Hunting, stating that business
would detain him some days longer in Europe. But she had accepted it with resignation, and
felt that it was but a light penalty for all her folly of the two preceding days.

Gregory was not a little curious about it, for he was interested now in everything connected
with her; but as she did not speak of it again, good taste required that he should not. An
uncomfortable thought of Hunting as the possible writer crossed his mind, but he drove it from
him with something like rage.

As Gregory sat brooding by his fire, waiting till the sun should grow higher before starting
for a walk, Jeff came up with an armful of wood, and seemed bubbling over with something. He,
too, had suffered sorely in the storm he had helped to raise the preceding day, and had tremblingly
eaten such dinner as the irate Zibbie had tossed on the table for him, as a man might lunch
in the vicinity of a bombshell. He seemed to relieve himself by saying, with his characteristic
grin, as he replenished the fire, "It was dreadful 'pestuous yesterday, but de winds is gone
down. I'se glad dat ole hen is done for, but she hatch a heap ob trouble on her las' day."

Jeff belonged to that large school of modern philosophers who explain the evils of the day
on very superficial grounds. The human heart is all right. It's only "dat ole hen" or unfavorable
circumstances of some kind, that do the mischief. The impression was growing strong that the
supreme hour of his life, which would decide his destiny for good or evil, was fast approaching.
For years previously he had given up the struggle against the latter, and had sunk deep in
moral apathy, making greater effort to doubt everything concerning God than to believe. Then
he had lost even his earthly ambition, and become mere driftwood on the tide of time. But a
sweet, true woman was doing a work for him like that of Elsie for Prince Henry in the Golden
Legend. A consciousness of power to take up his burden again and be a man among men was coming
back, and old Daddy Tuggar's words were growing into a hope-inspiring prophecy: "She could
take the wickedest man livin' to heaven, if she'd stay right by him."

And yet his self-distrust was painfully and dangerously great, and he feared that when Annie
came to know the worst about him, and how he had plotted against her, she would shrink from
him. If she despaired of him he would despair of himself. He was certain that he could not
win even an intimate congenial acquaintance, much less a more tender regard, unless he became
a true, good man, worthy of her confidence. He could not become such by commencing in deception--by
hiding the past, and trying to appear what he was not. For in the first place she would certainly
find him out and despise him, and in the second place his own nature now revolted at anything
false in his relations with her. After long anxious thought, he concluded that the only safe,
as well as the only honorable, course was perfect frankness. If he began wrong, the end would
be disastrous. He was no longer subject to school-boy impulses, but was a mature and thoughtful
man, and had trained himself in business to look far and keenly into the consequences of present
action. He saw in this Walton blood an intense antipathy to deceit. His own nature was averse
to it also, and his experience with Hunting had made it doubly hateful. His pride revolted
at it, for his lack of hypocrisy had been the one ground of self- respect that remained in
him. If in his folly and wickedness he had blotted out the possibility of a happy future, he
must endure the terrible truth as he could. To try to steal into heaven, earthly or celestial,
by the back door of specious seeming, only to be discovered in his true character and cast
out with greater ignominy, was a course as revolting as foolish. Annie knew him to be a man
of the world, with sceptical tendencies, but to her guileless nature and inexperience this
might not mean anything very bad. In the secret of his own soul, however, he had to meet these
terrible questions:

"Can God receive and pardon a willing unbeliever, a man who has sinned against the clearest
light, a gambler, a libertine, an embodiment of selfishness? Can it be that Annie Walton will
ever receive even friendship from one so stained, knowing the additional fact that I plotted
against her and sought for my own senseless gratification to prove that she was a weak, vain
woman, who would be no better than myself if tempted in like manner? It is true that I never
betrayed innocence or wronged a man out of a dollar. It is true that in the code of the world
I have done nothing to lose my character as a gentleman, and even my design upon Miss Walton
would pass as a harmless flirtation in society; but the code of the world has no force in her
pure mind, and the license it permits is an insult to the law of God. And now it is not with
the world, but with her and Heaven that I have to deal. Things at which society shrugs its
shoulders indifferently are to them crimes, and black ones too. I might as well seek her love
with a felon's indictment hanging over me as to seek it hiding my past life. When she came
to find me out she would feel that I had wronged her unutterably, and confidence, the only
basis of lasting esteem, would be gone.

"Deep in my heart I have never doubted my mother's faith. When I imagined I did I was self-deceived.
Everything here confirms it, and Miss Walton more than all. I will consult the divine oracle.
She shall be the fair vestal, the gentle priestess. She lives near to heaven, and knows its
mind. If her kind and womanly nature shrinks from me, if she coldly draws her skirts aside
that I pollute them not even with a touch--if she by word or even manner proves that she sees
an impassable gulf between us--then she need waste no breath in homilies over repentance and
in saying that God can receive those whom man cannot. I'll not even listen, but go back to
the city and meet my fate. If imperfect human creatures cannot forgive each other--if I have
gone so far beyond the mercy of a tender-hearted woman--then I need look for nothing from a
just and holy God. It's mockery for good people, with horror and disgust slightly veiled upon
their faces, to tell poor wretches that God will receive them and love them, while they would
no more take them into their confidence and esteem than they would a pestilence. It's like
people saying to one in the last stage of consumption, 'I hope you will be better soon.' They
don't hope or expect any such thing. The Bible is said to teach that a man can sin away his
day of grace. I had about believed that I had sinned away mine. This genuine, honest Christian
girl has made me think differently. She has inspired the strong hope that she could lead me
to become a good man--even a Christian. She shall either fulfil that hope or show it to be false."

Such was the outline of his thoughts that long day, during which hope and fear balanced an
even scale. But the evening shadows found fear predominating. His awakened conscience and his
recent contact with true moral standards revealed him to himself in darker and still darker
shadow. At times he was almost ready to despair, to bid his entertainers a courteous farewell
on Monday, and go back to the city as he came, with the additional wretchedness of having seen
the heaven he could not enter.

But when he came down to supper, Annie smiled so sweetly and looked so gentle and kind, that
he thought, "She does not seem one to push a wretch over a precipice. That warm little hand
that charmed away my headache so gently cannot write Dante's inscription over my 'Inferno,'
and bid me enter it as 'my own place'; and yet I dread her sense of justice."

In his anxiety and perturbation of mind he was unusually grave and silent during the meal and
evening. Annie exulted secretly over him.

"He is thinking in earnest now. His old apathy and trifling manner are gone."

He was indeed thinking in terrible earnest. Her effort had awakened no school-girl interest
and penitence that she could soothe and reward by quoting a few sweet promises, but had aroused
a spirit like that which came down from the hills of Gadara, and which no man could bind.

Men and women in good society may be very polished and refined, and yet their souls in God's
sight and their own be shameful, "naked," wearing no robe of righteousness, bound by no laws
of purity and right, and "always, night and day, crying and cutting" themselves in the unrest
of remorse. Sad and yet true it was that the demon- possessed man, the terror of the Gadarenes,
was but too true a type of the gentlemanly and elegant Walter Gregory, as he sat that night
in a torment of dread and hope at the peaceful fireside of a Christian family. If his fears
were realized--if Annie turned from him when he revealed his true self to her--there seemed
to him every probability that evil evermore would be his master. While she was innocently hoping
and praying that her words and influence might lead him to read his Bible, go to church, and
eventually find his way into the "green pastures beside the still waters," it seemed that within
a few hours she would either avert or complete that most awful of tragedies--the loss of a soul.

He accompanied them to church the following morning, and his manner was grave even to solemnity.
Little wonder. In a certain sense, in view of his resolution, the Judgment Day had come to him.

With heavy, contracted brows he listened to a sermon anything but reassuring. The good old
minister inclined to a legal and doctrinal gospel, and to-day his subject was the perfection
and searching character of the divine law. He showed how God could make no terms with sin--that
he hated it with a terrible and vindictive hatred, because in all respects it was opposite
and antagonistic to His nature--because it defiled, degraded, and destroyed. He traced all
human wretchedness to this poisonous root, and Gregory trembled and his face grew dark with
despair as he realized how it was inwoven with every fibre of his heart. Then in simple but
strong language the silver-haired old man, who seemed a type of the ancient prophets, portrayed
the great white throne of God's justice, snowy, too dazzling for human eyes, and the conscience-stricken
man shrunk and cowered.

He turned to Annie to see how this train of thought, so terrific to him, affected her. Not
a trace of fear was upon her face, but only serene, reverent awe. He glanced at Mr. Walton,
but the old magistrate sat in his place, calm and dignified, evidently approving the action
of the greater Judge. Miss Eulie's face, as seen between himself and the light of the window,
appeared spirit-like.

"Thus they will look on the Judgment Day," thought Gregory, "while I tremble even at its picture.
O the vital difference between guilt and innocence, between faith and unbelief!"

If the venerable clergyman had been talking personally to Gregory or any sinful creature, he
would not have concluded his subject where he did. He would have shown how between the throne
of justice and the sinner there stood an Advocate, an Intercessor, a Saviour. But having logically
developed his text, he finished his discourse. Perhaps on the following Sabbath he might present
the mercy of God with equal clearness. But the sermon of the day, standing alone and confirming
the threatenings of an accusing conscience, depressed Gregory greatly. It did not anger him,
as such truth usually did. He was too weak and despairing. He now felt the hopelessness and
folly of opposition. The idea of getting into a passion with fate! Only weak natures fume at
the inevitable. There is a certain dignity in silent, passive despair.

Annie's voice singing the closing hymn beside him sounded like an angel's voice across the
"great gulf." Almost mechanically he walked down the aisle out into the sunny noon of a warm
October day. Birds were twittering around the porch. Fall insects filled the air with their
cheery chirpings. The bay of a dog, the shrill crowing of a cock, came softened across the
fields from a neighboring farm. Cow- bells tinkled faintly in the distance, and two children
were seen romping on a hillside, flitting here and there like butterflies. The trees were in
gala dress of crimson and gold, and even the mountains veiled their stern grandeur in a purple
haze, through which the sun's rays shimmered with genial but not oppressive warmth.

The people lingered around the door, shaking hands and greeting one another with the plain
but cordial courtesy of the country. Gregory heard one russet-apple-faced man say that "Betsy
was better," and an old colored woman, with a visage like that apple in black and mottled decay,
said in cheerful tones that "little Sampson was gittin' right peart." A great raw-boned farmer
asked a half-grown boy, "How's yer mare?" and the boy replied that the animal was better also.
All seemed better that bright day, and from a group near came the expression, "Crops were good
this year." While the wealthier and more cultured members of the congregation had kindly nods
and smiles for all, they naturally drew together, and there seemed a little flutter of excitement
over the renewal of the sewing society that had been discontinued during the summer.

Gregory stood apart from all this, with the heavy contraction still upon his brow, and asked
himself, "What have these simple, cheery, commonplace people, with their petty earth-born cares
and interests, to do with that 'great white throne' of which we have just heard? and where
in this soft, dreamy landscape, so suggestive of peace, rest, and everyday life, lurks any
hint of the 'wrath of a just and holy God'?"

And then the old pastor, who a little before had seemed a prototype of John, the stern reformer
from the wilderness, came out smiling and benignant, greeting his flock as a father might his
children. The very hand that had been raised in denunciation, and in threatening a doom that
would appall the heart of courage itself, was given to Gregory in a warm and cordial grasp.
The man he had trembled before now seemed the personification of sweet-tempered human kindness.
The contrast was so sharp that it seemed to Gregory that either what he saw or what he had
heard must be an utter delusion.

As they were driving home, he suddenly broke the moody silence by asking Miss Walton, "How
do you reconcile the scene at the church door, so matter-of-fact, cheery, and earthly, with
the terrible pictures suggested by the sermon? If such things are before us, it seems to me
that bright, sunny days like these are mockery."

She looked at him wistfully. The sermon had not been what she would have wished, but she trusted
it would do him good by cutting away every hope based on anything in himself or in vague general
ideas of God's indiscriminate mercy. She answered gently, "The contrast was indeed great, now
I think of it, and yet each scene was matter-of-fact to me in the sense of being real. Besides,
that one which our pastor described was a court of justice. I shall have an Advocate there
who will clear me. As for 'bright days,' I believe they are just what God means His people
to have always."

"Yes," said he, gloomily, "that is your side of the question."

"It may be yours also," she replied, in a low tone.

He shook his head and looked away to hide his pain.

After a short time he again said, "Do you not think that the view of God which your minister
gave is very depressing to the average man? Is not His law too perfect for imperfect humanity?"

"Not at all," she answered, eagerly; but before she could say more, Mr. Walton, unaware of
the subject occupying them, turned from the front seat and introduced another topic.

After dinner, Gregory went to his room, which he restlessly paced.

"Even her creed, her faith, as well as her purity and truth, raises a wall as high as heaven
between us," he exclaimed, bitterly. "She has only to see me as God sees, to shrink away appalled,
disgusted. Well, she shall," he muttered, grinding his teeth; "I shall not add the worst torment
of all to my perdition by deceiving her."

As he came down stairs, Annie had just finished reading to the children, and he said, "Miss
Walton, will your ideas of Sabbath- keeping prevent you from taking a stroll in the garden
with me?"

"Not at all," she replied, smiling. "A garden is a good place to keep Sunday in."

He walked silently at her side across the lawn down a shady walk. Annie hoped much from this
interview, and sent a swift, earnest prayer to Heaven that she might speak wisely. She feared
that his dejection would pass into discouragement and despair. She saw that he was much depressed,
and judged correctly that it was because he had seen only one side of a great truth. She hoped
to cheer and inspire him with the other side. Moreover, her religion was very simple. It was
only becoming God's friend, instead of remaining indifferent or hostile. To her, no matter
what the burden, it was simply leading the heavy-laden to the strong Divine Friend as people
were brought to Him of old, and establishing the personal relations of love, faith, and following.

But she did not realize the desperate nature or the complications of Gregory's moral infirmity.
Still she was a safe adviser, for she did not propose to cure him herself. She wished to rally
and cheer him, to inspire hope, and to turn his eyes from sin to the Saviour, so she said,
"Mr. Gregory, why do you look as if marching to execution?"

"Perhaps because I feel as if I were," he said.

Just then a variegated leaf parted from a spray overhanging the path somewhat in advance of
them, and fluttered to their feet.

"Poor little leaf!" said Gregory, picking it up, "your bright colors will soon be lost. Death
has come to you too. Why must this wretched thought of death be thrust on one at every turn?
Nature is full of it. Things only live, apparently, for the sake of dying. Just as this leaf
becomes most beautiful it drops. What a miserable world this is, with death making havoc everywhere!
Then your theology exaggerates the evil a thousand-fold. If a man must die, let him die and
cease to be. But your minister spoke to-day of a living death, in which one only exists to
suffer. What a misfortune to have existed!"

As Gregory gloomily uttered these bitter words, they stood looking at the leaf that had suggested
them. Annie's face brightened with a sudden thought. She turned, and after a few rapid steps
sprung lightly up and caught the twig from which the leaf had fallen. Then turning to her companion,
who regarded with surprise and admiration the agile grace of the act, she said, "Mr. Gregory,
you need lessons in logic. If the leaf you hold is your theme, as you gave me reason to believe,
you don't stick to it, and you draw from it conclusions that don't follow the premise. Another
thing, it is not right to develop a subject without regard to its connection. Now from just
this place," she continued, pointing with her finger, "the leaf dropped. What do you see? What
was its connection?"

"Why, a little branch full of other leaves. These would soon have dropped off and died also,
if you had not hastened their fate."

"That's a superficial view, like the one you just took of this 'miserable world,' as you call
it. I think it is a very good world--a much better one than we deserve. And now look closely
and justly at your theme's connection, and tell me what you see. Look just here;" and her finger
rested on the little green spot where the stem of the leaf had joined the spray.

"I see a very small bud," he said, intelligence of her meaning dawning in his face.

"Which will develop next spring into other leaves and perhaps into a new branch. All summer
long your leaf has rustled and fluttered joyously over the certainty that a richer and fuller
life would come after it, a life that it was providing for through the sunny days and dewy
nights. There is no death here, only change for the better. And so with everything that has
bloomed and flourished in this garden during the past season, provision has been made for new
and more abundant life. All these bright but falling leaves and fading flowers are merely Nature's
robes, ornaments that she is throwing carelessly aside as she withdraws for a little time from
her regal state. Wait till she appears again next spring, as young, fresh, and beautiful as
when, like Eve, she saw her first bright morning. Come and see her upon her throne next June.
Nature full of death! Why, Mr. Gregory, she speaks of nothing but life to those who understand
her language."

"O that you would teach it to me!" he said, with a deeper meaning than she detected.

"Again," she continued, "our theology does not represent death as making havoc anywhere. It
is sin that makes the havoc, and death is only one of its consequences. And even this enemy
God compels to work for the good of His friends. Do not think," she continued, coming a step
nearer in her earnestness, "that I make such allusions to pain you, but only in my sincere
wish to help you, and illustrate my meaning by something you know so well. Did death make havoc
in your mother's case? Was it not rather a sombre-liveried janitor that opened for her the
gates of heaven?"

He was deeply touched, and turned away his face. After a moment he continued his walk, that
they might get further away from the house and the danger of interruption.

He suddenly startled Annie by saying, in a tone of harsh and intense bitterness, "Her death
made 'havoc' for me. If she had lived I might have been a good man instead of the wretch I
am. If death as janitor opens the gates of heaven, your religion teaches that it also opens
the gates of hell. How can I love a God who shuts up the sinful in an inferno--in dungeons
of many and varied tortures, and racks them forever? Can I, just to escape all this, pretend
that I love Him, when in truth I fear and dread Him unspeakably? No, I'll never be a hypocrite."

Tears glistened in Annie's eyes as he turned to look at her.

"You pity me," he said, more gently. "Your God does not. If He wanted to be loved He should
never have revealed a hell."

"Should He not in mercy, if it really existed? And does it not exist? Will merely a beautiful
place make heaven for anybody? Mr. Gregory, look around this lovely autumn evening. See the
crimson glory of those clouds yonder in the west. See that brightness shading off into paler
and more exquisite tints. Look, how those many-hued leaves reflect the glowing sky. The air
is as sweet and balmy as that of Eden could have been. The landscape is beautiful in itself,
and especially attractive to you. To our human eyes it hardly seems as if heaven could be more
perfect than this. And yet, standing in the one spot of all the earth most beautiful to you,
Mr. Gregory, pardon me for saying it, your face expresses nothing but pain. There is not a
trace of happiness in it. You were not happy when you came here. I saw that the first day.
All the pleasant surroundings of your own home have not made you happy. Have they given you
even peace and quiet? Place does not make heaven, but something we carry in our own bosoms,"
she concluded, leaving him to supply the rest of her thought.

His face was white with fear, and there was terror in his tone as he turned and said to her,
in a low voice, "Miss Walton, that is what I have been coming to see and dread, of late, and
as you put the thoughts into words I see that it is true. I carry perdition in my own heart.
When I am alone my imaginings frighten me; and when with others, impulses arise to do the devil's
own work."

"But it is the nature of God to save from all this. I am so sorry that you do not understand
Him better."

"He saves some," said Gregory, gloomily.

"But many will not let Him save them," urged Annie.

"I should be only too glad to have Him save me, but whether He will or not is the point at
issue, and my hope is very faint. Everything to- day, but you, seems to confirm my fate. Miss
Walton, won't you take that little rustic seat there by the brook? I wish to tell you something
that will probably settle this question."

Annie wonderingly complied. This was an experience she had never had before. She was rapidly
realizing the difference between being the spiritual guide of the girls in her Bible-class
and being the adviser of this strong-minded yet greatly perverted man. But she turned to him
a face full of sympathy and encouragement.

For a moment it seemed he did not know how to begin, and he paced restlessly up and down before
her. Then he said, "Miss Walton, you remember that worm-infested chestnut through which you
gave me such a just lesson?"

"Please do not speak of my foolish words at that time," she replied, eagerly.

"Pardon me, they were not foolish. They, with the illustration of my own choice, revealed me
to myself as nothing had ever done before. Had it not been for your graceful tact, I should
have made a fool of myself by being angry. If you had known what I deserved then you would
not have let me off so easily. But it's true. That lonely, selfish chestnut, with a worm in
its kernel, was a good emblem of myself. Evil is throned in my heart supreme and malignant.
I suppose it's through my own fault, but be that as it may, it's there, my master. I groan
over and curse the fact, but I do evil and think evil continually, and I fear I always shall.

"No, listen to me to the end," he continued, as she was about to speak.

"When on that strange mountain expedition, you made the remark, 'What congenial friends we
might be!' Those words have echoed in my heart ever since, like the refrain of a home-song
to a captive. I would give more than I can express for your friendship--for the privilege of
seeing you and speaking to you frankly on these subjects occasionally, for you and you only
have inspired a faint hope that I might become a better man. You are making Christianity seem
a reality and not a fashion. Though possessing human weakness, you triumph over it, and you
say it is through prayer to God. I find it impossible not to believe everything you say, for
whatever your faults are you are truth itself. Through your influence the thought has come
that God might also hear and help me, but I have the fear and almost the belief that I have
placed myself beyond His mercy. At any rate I have almost lost hope in anything I can do by
myself. I was in moral despair when I came here, and might as well have been dead, but you
have led me to a willingness to make one more struggle, and a great one, if I can see in it
any chance of success. I fear I am deceiving myself, but when with you, though you are immeasurably
better than I, hope steals into my heart, that before was paralyzed by despair. When you come
to know me as I know myself, I fear that you will shrink in just horror away, and that I shall
see reflected in your face the verdict of heaven. But you shall know the worst--the very worst.
I can never use deceit with you. If afterward you ever take my stained hand again--"

He did not finish the sentence, but heaved a great sigh, as if of longing and hope that words
could not utter.

It was the old truth illustrated, that God must become human to gain humanity. Abstract truth
could not save this lost and guilty man, but the wanderer hoped that in this sweet human life
he had found the clew back to the divine life.

Annie trembled at the responsibility that now suddenly burdened her as she saw this trembling
spirit clinging to her as the one frail barrier between himself and the gulf of utter despair.
She nerved herself, by prayer and the exertion of all her will, to be equal to the emergency.

And yet it was a fearful ordeal that she was called to go through as the remorseful and deeply
agitated man, his face flushed with shame, now with impassioned, more often with despairing
gesture and accent, poured out the story of his past life, and laid bare his evil heart, while
he paced up and down the little walk before her.

The transaction with Hunting he purposely passed over, speaking of it merely as a business
misfortune that had robbed him even of earthly ambition. She saw a few sin-stained pages of
that dreadful book of human guilt which God must look at every day.

Gregory did not spare himself, and palliated nothing, softening and brightening no harsh and
dark lines. On the contrary, he was stern and blunt, and it was strange indeed to hear him
charging himself before a pure, innocent young girl, whose good opinion was life to him, with
what she regarded as crimes. When he at last came to speak of his designs against herself,
of how he had purposed to take the bloom and beauty from her character that he might laugh
at goodness as a dream and pretence, and despise her as he did himself, his eye flashed angrily,
and he grew vindictive as if denouncing an object of his hate. He could not even look at her
during the last of his confession, but turned away his face, fearing to see Annie's expression
of aversion and disgust.

It was with a paling cheek and growing dread that she looked into that dark and fearful place,
a perverted human heart, and her every breath was a prayer that God would enable her to see
and act as Christ would were some poor creature revealing to Him his desperate need.

Gregory suddenly paused in his low but passionate flow of words, and put his hand to his head
as if the pain were insupportable. In fact, his anguish and the intense feeling of the day
had again brought on one of his old nervous headaches. Thus far he had scarcely noticed it,
but now the sharp, quivering pangs proved how a wronged physical nature could retaliate; how
much more the higher and more delicate moral nature!

After the paroxysm had passed, he continued, in the hard, weary tone of utter dejection (for
he had dreaded even to look at Annie, and her silence confirmed his worst fears), "Well, Miss
Walton, you now know the worst. On this peaceful Sabbath evening you have seen more of perdition
than you ever will again. You cannot even speak to me, and I dare not look at your face. The
expression of horror and disgust which I know must be there would blast me and haunt me forever.
It would be worse than death, for I did have a faint hope--"

He was interrupted by an audible sob, and turning, saw Annie with her face buried in her hands,
weeping as if her heart would break. He was puzzled for a moment, and then, in the despairing
condition of his mind interpreted her wrongly. Standing near her with clenched hands, he said,
in the same hard tones which seemed to have passed beyond the expression of feeling, "I'm a
brute and worse. I have been wounding you as with blows by my vile story. I have been dragging
your pure thoughts through the mire of my wretched life."

Annie tried to speak, but apparently could not for excess of emotion.

"Why could I not have gone away and died by myself, like some unclean beast?" he muttered.
Then, in a tone which she never forgot, and with the manner of one who was indeed leaving hope
and life behind him, he said, "Farewell, Miss Walton; you will be better after I am gone."

She sprung up, and laying restraining hands upon his arm, sobbed, "No--no. Why don't you--you--understand
me? My heart's--breaking for you--wait till I can speak."

He placed her gently on the seat again. A great light was coming into his eyes, and he stood
bending toward her as if existence depended on her next words. Could it be that her swelling
throat and sobs meant sympathy for him?

She soon controlled herself, and looking up at him, with a light in her eyes that shone through
her tears as sun-rays through the rain, said, "Forgive me. I never realized before that so
much sin and suffering could exist in one unhappy life. I do pity you, as God does far more.
I will help you as He will."

Gregory knelt at her feet, and kissed her hand with the fervor of a captive who had just received
life and liberty.

"See, I do not shrink from you," she continued. "My Master would not. Why should I? He came
to save just such, and just such we all would be but for His grace and shielding. I'm so--sorry
for you."

He turned hastily away for a moment to hide his feelings, and said, slowly, "I cannot trust
myself--I cannot trust God yet; but I trust you, and I believe you have saved a soul from death."

He stood looking toward the glowing west, and, for the first time in years, hoped that his
life might close in brightness.

"Mr. Gregory," said Annie, in a voice so changed that he started and turned toward her hardly
knowing what to expect. She stood beside him, no longer a tender, compassionate woman grieving
for him, as if his sin were only misfortune, but her face was almost stern in its purity and
earnestness. "Mr. Gregory, the mercy which God shows, and which I faintly reflect, is for you
in sharp distinction from your sin. Do not for a moment think that I can look with any lenience
or indulgence on all the horrible evil you have laid before me. Do not think I can excuse or
pass lightly over it as something of little consequence. I hate your sin as I hate my own.
I can honestly feel and frankly show the sympathy I have manifested, only in view of your penitence,
and your sincere purpose, with God's help, to root out the evil of your life. This I am daily
trying to do, and this you must do in the one and only way in which there is any use in trying.
It is only with this clear understanding that I can give you my hand in the friendship of mutual
helpfulness, and in the confidence of respect."

He reverently took her hand and said, "Your conditions are just, Miss Walton, and I accept
your friendship as offered with a gratitude beyond words. I can never use deceit where you
are concerned, even in thought. But please do not expect too much of me. I have formed the
habit of doubting. It may be very long before I have your simple, beautiful faith. I will do
just the best I can! It seems that if you will trust me, help me, pray for me, I can succeed.
If I am mistaken, I will carry my wretchedness where the sight of it will not pain you. If
I ever do reach your Christian life, I will lavish a wealth of gratitude upon you that cannot
be expressed. Indeed, I will in any case, for you have done all that I could hope and more."

"I will do all you ask," she said, heartily, giving at the same time his hand a strong pressure
with her warm, throbbing palm, that sent a subtle current of hope and strength into his heart.
Her face softened into an expression of almost sisterly affection, and with a gleam of her
old mirthfulness she continued, "Take counsel of practical common- sense, Mr. Gregory. Why
talk so doubtfully of success, seeking it as you purpose to? What right have you even to imagine
that God will bestow upon you the great distinction of making you the first one of the race
He refused to hear and answer? Be humble and believe that He will treat you like other people."

He stopped in their slow walk toward the house and said, with glad animation, "Miss Walton,
do you know you have done more to strengthen me in that little speech than by a long and labored
argument?"

And so they passed in out of the purple twilight, Annie's heart thrilling with something of
the joy of heaven, and Gregory feeling as if the dawn were coming after Egyptian night.

As they left the garden a dusky face peered out of some thick shrubbery and looked cautiously
around. Then Jeff appeared and attributed to the scene just described a very different meaning
from its real significance.

CHAPTER XXV

THE OLD HOME IN DANGER--GREGORY RETRIEVES HIMSELF

Gregory made desperate efforts to keep up at the supper-table, but could not prevent slight
evidences of physical pain, which Annie silently noticed. After tea he hoped to escape to his
room, for he could not endure to show even his physical weakness so soon again. On the contrary,
he was longing intensely for an opportunity to manifest a little strength of some kind. After
his recent interview he felt that he could even bear one of his nervous headaches alone. But
as he was about to excuse himself, Annie interrupted, saying, "Now, Mr. Gregory, that is not
according to agreement. Do you suppose I cannot see that you are half beside yourself with
one of your old headaches? Was I such a poor physician the last time that you seek to escape
me now? Come back to the parlor. I will not go out to church this evening, but devote myself
to you."

"Miss Walton," he replied, in a low tone, "when can I make any return for all your kindness?
I must seem weakness itself in every respect, and I dread to appear to you always in that light."

"Your pride needs bringing down, sir; see how towering it is. Here you would go off by yourself,
and endure a useless martyrdom all night perhaps, when by a few simple remedies I can relieve
you, or at least help you forget the pain. I have not the slightest objection to your being
a martyr, but I want some good to come out of it." "But I shall spoil your evening."

"Certainly you will, if I think of you groaning up there by yourself, while I am singing, perhaps:

     "'I love to steal awhile away
      From every cumbering care!'"

"Then I'm a cumbering care!"

"Whether you are or not, I'm not going to steal away from you to- night. Come, do as I bid you."

He was only too glad to submit to her delicious tyranny. She wheeled the lounge up to the fire,
and placed her chair beside it, while the rest of the family, seeing that he had his old malady,
went to the sitting-room.

"I have great pride in my nursing powers," she continued, in her cheery way. "Now, if I were
a man, I'd certainly be a doctor."

"Thank Heaven you are not!" he said, with a devout earnestness that quite startled her.

"What? A doctor?" she asked, quickly.

"Yes--no; I mean a man, and doctor too."

"I see no reason why you should show such bitter opposition to my being a man or a doctor either.
Why should you?"

"O--well--I think you are just right as a woman. You make me believe in the doctrine of election,
for it seems to me that you were destined from all eternity to be just what you are."

"What a strange, unfathomable doctrine that is!" said Annie, softly and musingly.

"It's nothing but mystery all around us," he replied, wearily and dejectedly.

"No, not 'all around us,'" she answered, quickly. "It's clear when we look up. Faith builds
a safe bridge to God, and to Him there are no mysteries."

Her touch upon his brow thrilled him, and her presence was both exhilarating and restful.

At last she said, "I am sorry you have these dreadful headaches so often."

"I shall never be again."

"Why so?"

"Because they have led to this evening. It has been so many long, miserable years since I experienced
anything like this."

"Ah, I see, you have been very lonely. You have had no one to care for you, and that I believe
has been the cause of half your trouble--evil, I mean. Indeed, they are about the same thing.
Don't you see? The world is too large a place for a home. You need a nook in it, with some
one there to look after you and for you to think about."

He looked at her searchingly, and then turned away his face in pain. She could not utter such
words in that placid style, were she not utterly devoid of the feeling that was filling his
soul with an ecstasy of hope and fear.

"Do not think that even many of our sex are like Miss Bently. You will see and choose more
wisely hereafter, and find that, in exchanging that wretched club-life for a cosey home of
your own, you take a good step in all respects."

"Would to Heaven that I had met such a girl as you at first!" he ventured to say. "How different
then all might have been!"

"There is no use in dwelling on the past," she replied, innocently. "You are now pledged to
make the future right."

"God helping me, I will. I will use every means in my power," he said, in a tone of deep earnestness;
and, as principal part of the means, determined to take her advice, but with reference to herself.
After a few moments he said, "Miss Walton, as I promised to be perfectly frank with you, I
want to ask an explanation of something that I do not understand, and which has been almost
a heavenly surprise to me. I was nearly certain before this afternoon that when you came to
know what a stained, evil man I am--"

"Was," interrupted Annie.

"No, what I am. Character is not made in a moment. As yet, I only hope and purpose to do better.
I can hardly understand why you do not shrink from me in disgust. It seemed that both your
faith and your nature would lead you to do this. I thought it possible that out of your kindness
you might try to stand at a safe distance and give me some good advice across the gulf. But
that which I feared would drive you from me forever has only brought you nearer. Again I say,
it has been a heavenly surprise."

"You use the word 'heavenly' with more appropriateness than you think," she replied, gravely.
"All such surprises are heavenly in their origin, and my course is but a faint reflection of
Heaven's disposition toward you, and was prompted by the duty I owe to God as well as to you.
Self-righteousness would have led me in Pharisaic pride to say, 'Stand aside, I am holier than
thou.' But you have only to read the life of the perfect One to know that in so doing I should
not have been like Him. He laid His rescuing hands on both the physical and the moral leper--"

"As you have upon me," said Gregory, with a look of such intense gratitude that she was embarrassed.

"I deserve no great credit, for it was only right that I should do the utmost in my power to
help you. How else could I be a Christian in any real sense? But there is nothing strange about
it. Christianity is not like false religions, that require unnatural and useless sacrifices.
If I were a true physician, and found you suffering from a terrible and contagious disease,
while I feared and loathed the disease, I might have the deepest sympathy for you and do my
best to cure you. I do loathe the sin you confessed, inexpressibly. See how near it came to
destroying you. While God hates the sin, He ever loves the sinful."

"I hope you will always be divine in that respect," he could not forbear saying, with rising color.

But her thoughts were so intent on what was uppermost in her heart that she did not notice
his covert meaning, and said, innocently, "I will give you honest friendship so long as you
honestly try to redeem the pledges of to-day."

"Then I have your friendship for life, be it long or short," said he, decisively.

With more lightness in her tone she continued, "And I too will ask a question that has a bearing
on a little theory of my own. Supposing I had shrunk from you, and tried to give some good
advice from a safe distance, what would you have done?"

"Left for New York to-morrow, and gone straight to the devil as one of his own imps," he replied,
without a moment's hesitation.

She sighed deeply, and said, "I fear you would--that is, if left to yourself. And the worst
of it is, it seems to me that this is the way the Church is trying to save the world. Suppose
a doctor should address his patients through a speaking-trumpet and hand them his remedies
on the end of a very long rod. Death would laugh at his efforts. People can be saved only as
Christ saved them. We must go where they are, lay our hands upon them, and look sympathy and
hope right into their eyes. If Christ's followers would only do this, how many more might be
rescued who now seem hopelessly given over to evil!"

"Those who won't do it," said Gregory, bitterly, "are in no sense His true followers, but are
merely the 'hangers on' of His army, seeking to get out of it all they can for self. Every
general knows that the 'camp-followers' are the bane of an army."

"Come, Mr. Gregory," said she, gently, "we are not the general, and therefore not the judge.
After this I shall expect to see you in the regular ranks, ready to give and take blows."

They now joined Mr. Walton and Miss Eulie in the sitting-room, and Gregory professed to feel,
and indeed was, much better, and after a little music they separated for the night. Although
still suffering, Gregory sat by his fire a long time, forgetful of pain.

High, blustering winds prevailed all the following day, but they only made the quiet and cosiness
of Mr. Walton's fireside more delightful. Gregory did not care to go out if he went alone.
He wished to be where he could see Annie as often as possible, for every word and smile from
her in the intervals of her duties was precious. He did honestly mean to become a good man
if it were possible, but he saw in her the only hopeful means. He did not pretend to either
faith in God or love for Him as yet, but only felt a glow of gratitude, a warming of his heart
toward Him in view of His great mercy in sending to his aid such a ministering spirit as Annie
had proved. He took it as an omen that God meant kindly by him, and through this human hand
might save at last.

And he clung to this hand as the drowning do to anything that keeps them from sinking into
dark and unknown depths. He saw in Annie Walton earthly happiness certainly, and his best prospect
of heaven. What wonder then that his heart lay at her feet in entire consecration? Apart from
the peculiar fascination that she herself had for him, he had motives for loving her that actuate
but few. If she had saved him from physical death it would have been a little thing in comparison,
but he shuddered to think of the precipice from which she had drawn him back.

He was cautious in revealing himself to her. The presence of others was a restraint, and he
plainly saw that she had no such regard for him as he felt for her. But he hoped with intense
fervor--yes, he even prayed to that God whom he had so long slighted--that in time she might
return his love. To-day he would close his eyes on the past and future. She, the sunshine of
his soul, was near, and he was content to bask in her smiles.

Annie had given her father and aunt to understand that their conspiracy promised to result
in success, and they treated him with marked but delicate kindness. The day passed in music,
reading, and conversation, and it was to Gregory the happiest he remembered--one of the sweet
May days that, by some happy blunder of nature, occasionally bless us in March--and he made
the very most of it. Its close found Annie Walton enthroned in his heart.

As for Annie, he perplexed her a little, but she explained everything peculiar in his words
and manner on the ground of his gratitude only, and the glow of his newly awakened moral nature.
If she had been an experienced belle, she might have understood his symptoms better, but she
was one of the last in the world to imagine people falling in love with her. Never having received
much admiration from strangers, with no long list of victims, and believing from her own experience
that love was a gradual growth resulting from long knowledge and intimacy with its object,
she could not dream that this critical man, who had seen the beauties of two continents, would
in a few days be carried away by her plain face. Nor was he by her face, but by herself.

Men of mind are rarely captivated by a face merely, however beautiful, but by what it represents,
or what they imagine it does. Woe be to the beauty who has no better capital than her face!
With it she can allure some one into marrying her; but if he marries for an intelligent companion,
he is likely to prove the most disappointed and indifferent of husbands on discovering the
fraud. The world will never get over its old belief that the fair face is the index of graces
slightly veiled, and ready to be revealed when the right to know is gained. In nursery rhymes,
fairy tales, and the average novel, the beautiful heroine is also lovely, and so in spite of
adverse experience the world will ever expect wisdom and truth from red lips, till they say
too much--till the red lips themselves prove the contrary. Then come the anger and disgust
which men ever visit upon those who deceive and disappoint them. Beauty is a dainty and exquisite
vestibule to a temple; but when a worshipper is beguiled into entering, only to find a stony,
misshapen idol and a dingy shrine, this does not conduce to future devotion.

Annie's face would not arrest passers-by, and so she had not been spoiled by too much homage,
which is not good for man or woman. But after passing the plain, simple portico of externals
into the inner temple of her sweet and truthful life, the heart once hers would worship with
undying faith and love.

Gregory had come to interest her deeply, not only on the ground of his need, but because she
saw in him great capabilities for good. In all his evil, his downright honesty and lack of
conceit inspired a kind of respect. She also saw that this excessively fastidious man had learned
to admire and esteem her greatly. It was not in her woman's nature to be indifferent to this
fact. She felt that if he could be redeemed from his evil he might become a congenial and valuable
friend indeed, and if she could be the means of rescuing the son of her father's friend it
would ever be one of her happiest memories. But with her heart already occupied by a noble
ideal of Hunting, the possibility of anything more than friendship never entered her mind.
The very fact that her affections were so engaged made her blind to manifestations on the part
of Gregory which might otherwise have awakened suspicion. Still the confidential relations
growing up between them made her wish that she might reveal to him her virtual engagement to
Hunting; and she would have done so, had he not resented the slightest allusion in that direction.
It now seemed probable that Hunting would return before Gregory took his departure, and if
so, she felt that she could immediately reconcile them. She came to the conclusion that her
best course was to wait till she could bring them together, and so make the reconciliation
certain by her own presence and influence; for now, in her increasing regard for Gregory, she
was determined that they all should be on good terms, so that in the city home to which she
looked forward the man she was trying to lead to true life might be a frequent and welcome visitor.

But it is a difficult thing to keep such friendships Platonic in their nature under any circumstances,
and in view of Gregory's feelings, Annie's pretty dreams of the future would be but baseless
visions.

Monday evening brought one of those genial domestic experiences that make home more satisfying
in its pleasures than all the excitements of the world. Mr. Walton had a slight cold, and Annie
was nursing and petting him, while contributing to the general enjoyment by reading the daily
paper and singing some new ballads which she had just obtained from New York. Her father's
indisposition was so slight that it merely called for those little attentions which are pleasant
for affection to bestow and receive. The wind howled dismally without, only to enhance the
sense of peace and comfort within, and at the usual hour all retired to rest, without even
the passing thought that anything might disturb them before they should meet again at the cheerful
breakfast-table.

Some time during the night Gregory seemed to hear three distinct peals of thunder, wrathful
and threatening, and then a voice like that of Annie Walton calling him to escape a great danger.
But it seemed that he was paralyzed, and strove in vain to move hand or foot. Again and louder
pealed the thunder, and more urgent came the call of the warning voice. By a desperate effort
he sprung with a bound upon the floor, and then realized that what seemed thunder in the exaggeration
of his dream was loud knocking at his door. Annie's voice again called, "Mr. Gregory, awake,
dress. There is a fire. There may be danger."

He assured her that he would be out in a few moments, and had only to open a shutter to obtain
plenty of light, though he could not see whence it came. In five minutes he hastened downstairs
and found Mr. Walton just issuing from his room; and all went out on the front piazza. Gregory
then saw that a large factory some distance up the stream was burning, and that the fire was
under such headway that nothing could save the building. The wind had increased during the
night and fanned the flames into terrific fury. The building was old and dry, inviting destruction
in every part.

For a while they gazed with that fearful awe which this terrible element, when no longer servant,
but master, always inspires. Susie had not been well during the night, and in waiting on her,
Annie had discovered the disaster.

A warning cough from Mr. Walton revealed to Annie the danger of staying out in the raw winds;
but from the windows everything was apparent, and silently they watched the rapid progress
of the flames. The fire had caught in the lower part of the building, and was advancing up
from floor to floor with its horrid illumination at the windows.

"Do you think I can do any good by going there?" asked Gregory.

"Not at all," said Mr. Walton. "The whole of the New York Fire Department could not save it
now; and from the sounds I hear, there will soon be throngs of people there. Indeed, I am anxious
about my own place. When that shingle roof begins to burn there is no telling how far the wind
will carry the cinders."

Annie looked at her father in quick alarm, then drew Miss Eulie aside, and they immediately
went upstairs.

With a more painful interest, Gregory now watched the scene. The tall ladders which had first
been raised against the building were withdrawn. They were useless for the whole interior seemed
ablaze. Great tongues of fire began leaping from the windows, mocking every effort. The rapid
steps of those hastening to the scene resounded along the road, and the startling cry of "Fire!
Fire!" was heard up and down the valley till all merged in the shouts and cries around the
burning building. Mingling with the deeper, hoarser tones of men were the shrill voices of
women, showing that they too had been drawn to witness a destruction that meant to them loss
of bread. The foliage near was red as blood in the dreadful glare, and the neighboring pines
tossed their tasselled boughs like dark plumes at a torch-light funeral. With a sudden roar
a pyramid of flame shot up through the roof, and was echoed by a despairing cry from those
whose vocation now indeed was gone. A moment later a fiery storm of flakes and burning shingles
filled the sky.

To the great joy of our friends the wind was from such a quarter as to carry this destructive
tempest past them into the woodland back of the house, which happily had been rendered damp
by recent rains.

But a cinder frequently sailed by unpleasantly near, reminding one of scattering shots in a
battle. A slight change of wind would be their destruction, and a single stray fire-brand would
endanger them.

Just as they began to breathe somewhat freely, hoping that danger was past, a sudden side-eddy
of the gale scattered a shower of sparks and burning shingles over the house and out-buildings.
Mr. Walton immediately rushed forth, and, with a little whistle which he usually carried, gave
a shrill summons for Jeff, who lived in a cottage near. But Jeff was off to the fire, and so
did not appear. Gregory and Annie also hastened out, and the former ran to the barn and out-buildings
first, as from their nature they were most inflammable. To his and Mr. Walton's joy, no traces
of fire were seen. One or two smoking brands lay in the door-yard, where they could cause no
injury. But a cry of alarm from Annie, who had stayed nearer the house, brought Mr. Walton
and Gregory to her side instantly. Pointing to the roof of their house, she said, in tones
of strong excitement, "See there--oh, see there!"

A burning piece of wood had caught on the highest part near the ridge, and was smoking and
smouldering in a way that, with the strong wind fanning it, would surely cause destruction
if it were not dislodged.

"Oh, what shall we do?" she cried, wringing her hands. "Can a ladder reach it?"

"The roof is too steep, even if it did," said Mr. Walton.

"Where is the ladder?" cried Gregory.

"By the carriage-house. But I fear it is useless."

"Will you help me bring it, sir?"

They instantly brought the longest ladder on the place, but saw that though it might touch
the eaves, it would not reach the ridge. The roof was so steep that one could not keep footing
on it; and when they took time to look and consider, both gentlemen admitted that an effort
in that direction would fail, and probably at the cost of life.

"Is there no scuttle by which to get out on the roof?" asked Gregory.

"No. Quick, Annie, get out what you can, for we shall soon be homeless."

"Wait," said Gregory. "Is there no way to reach the roof?"

"None that we can use. A light and daring climber might possibly reach the ridge by the lighting-rod,
after leaving the ladder."

"Where is it?" cried Gregory, eager to do something to make impossible even the thought that
he was cowardly; for the memory of his course in the counterfeiter's den rankled deeply.

"No," cried both Mr. Walton and Annie, laying their hands on him. "Your life is worth more
than the house."

"My life is my own," he answered. "I will make an effort to save the old place. Quick, help
me. Here, girls" (to Zibbie and Hannah, who now stood beside them in dismay), "take hold of
that end of the ladder and carry it out there. Now push it up while I hold its foot. There,
that's it. I will do it. You cannot hinder, but only help. Miss Walton, get me a rope. Hurry,
while I prepare to climb."

With the help of the stout women, whose strength was doubled by their fears and excitement,
he placed the ladder against the lightning-rod and siding of the house just under the ridge.
His tones were determined and authoritative.

He was now acting as Annie would if she were a man, and she admired and respected him as never
before. In two or three moments she and her father returned with a line, but again expostulated.

"Mr. Gregory, the risk is too great."

"You can't prevent it," said he, firmly. "I absolve you from all responsibility. I take the
risk in spite of you. Make haste--see how it's burning. There, that will do. Stand back."

Even as he spoke he was climbing.

"Now that's generous," said Annie; "but if you are injured, I shall never forgive myself."

He turned, and for a second smiled down upon her.

The strength of his new-born love made him glad to endanger even life in her service, and the
thought, "I can at last win a little respect, as well as sympathy," nerved him to double his
ordinary powers. Like most country boys, he had been a bold, active climber, and his knowledge
and former skill made the attempted feat possible. The main question was whether in his feeble
state his strength would hold out. But the strong excitement of the moment would serve him
in place of muscle. He had thrown off his coat and boots, and, with a small rope fastened about
his waist, he swiftly ascended to the top of the ladder. But there were three or four feet
that he must overhand up the lightning-rod in order to reach the ridge. It was large and twisted,
and gave him a good hold, but he had to take the risk of its being strong enough in its fastening
to sustain his weight. Fortunately it was, and he unhesitatingly commenced the perilous effort.
He made good progress till he was within a foot of the ridge. Then his strength began to fail,
and plainly to those below he wavered.

With white face, clasped hands, and lips moving in prayer, Annie watched him. Her heart almost
stood still with dread; and when toward the last he slowly and still more slowly overhanded
upward, plainly indicating that his strength was ebbing, she cried, in an agony of fear, "Come
back, oh come back! What is all here to your life?" A second before it seemed to him that he
must fail, that he might suddenly fall at her feet a crushed and lifeless mass; but her voice
revived him, and the passionate thought came with inspiring power, "I can do more to win her
love now than by years of effort"; and he made a desperate struggle, gained the ridge, and
crawled out upon it, panting for a moment, and powerless to do more than cling for support.

The burning cinder was now but little in advance of him, and he saw that there was not a second
to lose. It had charred and blackened the roof where it had caught, and, fanned by the wind,
was a live, glowing coal. The shingles under it were smoking--yes, smouldering. Had it not
been for their dampness and mossy age, they would have been blazing. In a few moments nothing
could have saved the house.

As soon as he got his breath, he crept along the ridge within reach of the fiery flake. There
seemed no place where he could lay hold of it without burning himself. It would not do to simply
detach it, as it might catch further down the steep roof where it could not be reached. Above
all, there was not a moment to spare. He did not hesitate, but with sufficient presence of
mind to use his left instead of his right hand, he seized the fatal brand and hurled it, a
fiery meteor, clear of the house. It hurt him cruelly, and for a moment he felt sick and faint;
but a round of applause from those below (for now Miss Eulie and the children were out, looking
tremblingly on), and Annie's cry of joy and encouragement, again gave him strength.

But as he looked closely at the spot where the cinder had laid, his fears were realized. It
had ignited the roof. A little water would extinguish it now, but in a few moments, under the
wild wind that was blowing, all would be ablaze.

He crawled to the end of the ridge and shouted, "Tie a light pail of water to the cord--not
much at a time, or I can't draw it up."

Annie darted to the house for a lighter pail than Hannah had brought, and to Gregory's joy
he found that he had strength enough to lift it, though with his burned band it was agony to
do so. But with the now good prospect of finishing his work successfully, his spirits rose.
He grew more familiar and confident in his dangerous position. He did not look down from his
giddy height, and permitted himself to think of nothing but his task. Indeed, in his strong
excitement, he felt that it would not be a bitter thing to die thus serving the woman he loved;
and in his false philosophy he hoped this brave act might atone for the wrong of the past.

It is the nature of noble, generous deeds to exalt a man's soul so that he can fearlessly face
death, when in calm moments he would shrink back appalled. In the excitement of the hour, and
under the inspiration of his strong human love, Gregory was not afraid to die, though life
seemed, with its new possibilities, sweeter than ever before. He knew that his strength was
failing fast, that reaction would soon set in, and that he would be helpless, and his great
hope was that he could save the house first.

He determined therefore not to waste a drop of water, and to make this one pail answer if possible.
He therefore poured it slowly out, and let it run over the burning part. The continued hissing
and smoke proved that the fire had penetrated deeper than he thought. The last drop was gone,
and still the place smoked. A little more was absolutely necessary.

"Will my strength hold out?" he asked himself, in almost an agony of doubt.

Crawling back to the end of the ridge, he once more lowered the pail.

"Fill it again," he cried.

"Can you stand it?" Mr. Walton asked.

"I must, or all is useless," was his answer.

Again, but more slowly and painfully, he pulled the water up.

Annie wrung her hands in anguish as she saw in the red glare of the still burning factory how
pale and exhausted he was.

But he once more managed to reach the point above the still smouldering spot, and caused the
water to trickle down upon it. By the time he had half emptied the pail the smoke ceased.

After a moment it again faintly exuded, but another little stream of water quenched the fire
utterly. But for five minutes he watched the place to make sure that there was not a lingering
spark, and then let the rest of the water flow over the place to saturate it completely.

He was now certain that the house was saved. But he was satisfied from his sensations that
he had but little time in which to save himself. Reaction was fast setting in.

He untied the rope from his waist, and let pail and all roll clattering down the roof. This
noise was echoed by a cry of alarm from those below, who feared for a moment that he was falling.
They all had the sickening dread which is felt when we look at one in great peril, and yet
can do nothing to help.

At first Gregory thought that he would lie down upon the ridge and cling to it, thus gaining
strength by a little rest. But he soon found that this would not answer. His overtaxed frame
was becoming nerveless, and his only hope was to escape at once. In trembling weakness he crawled
back to the edge and looked over. Annie stepped forward to the foot of the ladder and extended
her hands as if to catch him.

"Stand back," he cried; "if I fall, I shall kill you."

"I will not stand back," she answered. "You shall not take all the risk."

But her father, who still kept his presence of mind in the terrible excitement of the moment,
forced her away, and saved her from the danger of this useless sacrifice. As soon as she could
do nothing, her fortitude vanished, and she covered her face with her hands and wept bitterly.

The chief point of difficulty in Gregory's weak state was to get off the ridge upon the lightning-rod
without losing his hold and falling at once. If he could turn the edge and begin to descend
in safety, his strength might hold out till he reached the ladder and so the ground. But he
realized the moment of supreme peril, and hesitated.

Then, with something like a prayer to God and with a wistful look at Annie, he resolutely swung
himself over. His hands held the weight of his body, and he commenced the descent. Annie's
glad cry once more encouraged him. He gained the ladder and descended till not far from the ground.

Suddenly everything turned black before his eyes, and he fell.

CHAPTER XXVI

CHANGES IN GREGORY

When Gregory became conscious, he was lying on the ground, with his head in Miss Eulie's lap,
and Annie was bending over him with a small flask. She again gave him a teaspoonful of brandy,
and after a moment he lifted himself up, and, passing his hand across his brow, looked around.

"You are not hurt. Oh, please say you are not hurt!" she exclaimed, taking his hand.

He looked at her a moment, and then it all came back to him, and he smiled and said, "Not much,
I think; and if I am it does not signify. You've helped me on my feet once or twice before.
Now see if you can again;" and he attempted to rise.

As Daddy Tuggar had intimated, there was plenty of muscle in Annie's round arms, and she almost
lifted him up, but he stood unsteadily. Mr. Walton gave him his arm, and in a few moments he
was on the sofa in the sitting-room, where a fire was soon kindled. Zibbie was told to make
coffee, and to provide something more substantial.

They were all profuse in expressions of gratitude, in praises of his heroism, but he waived
the whole matter off by saying, "Think of me as well as you can, for Heaven knows I have need
to retrieve my character. But please do not speak as if I had done more than I ought. For a
young man to stand idly by, and see the home of his childhood, the place where he had received
unbounded hospitality, destroyed, would be simply base. If I had not been reduced by months
of ill health, the thing would not have been difficult at all. But you, Miss Walton, displayed
the real heroism in the case, when you stood beneath with your arms out to catch me. I took
a risk, but you took the certainty of destruction if I had fallen. Still," he added, with a
humorous look as if in jest, though he was only too sincere, "the prospect was so inviting
that I should have liked to fall a little way."

"And so you did," cried innocent Johnny, eagerly. "You fell ever so far, and Aunt Annie caught
you."

"What!" exclaimed Gregory, rising. "Is this true? And are you not hurt?"

"That's the way with children," said Annie, with heightened color and a reproachful look at
the boy, who in the excitement of the hour was permitted to stay up for an hour or more; "they
let everything all out. No, I'm not hurt a bit. You didn't fall very far. I'm so thankful that
your strength did not give out till you almost reached the ground. O dear! I shudder to think
what might have happened. Do you know that I thought, with a thrill of superstitious dread,
of your chestnut-burr omen, when you stained my hand with your blood. If you had fallen--if--"
and she put her hand over her eyes to hide the dreadful vision her imagination presented. "If
anything had happened," she continued, "my hands would have been stained, in that they had
not held you back."

"What a tender, innocent conscience you have!" he replied, looking fondly at her. "I confess
I'd rather be here listening to you than somewhere else."

She gave him a troubled, startled look. To her that "somewhere else" had a sad and terrible
meaning. She sat near him, and could not help saying in a low, earnest tone, "How could you,
how could you take such a risk without--" She did not finish the sentence, which was plain
enough in its meaning, however.

On the impulse of the moment, Gregory was about to reply indiscreetly --in a way that would
have revealed more of his feelings toward her than he knew would be wise at that time. But
just then Hannah came in with the lunch, and the attention of the others, who had been talking
eagerly on the other side of the room, was directed toward them. He checked some rash words
as they rose to his lips, and Annie, suspecting nothing of the wealth of love that he was already
lavishing upon her, rose with alacrity, glad to serve one who had just served her so well.
The generous coffee and the dainty lunch, combined with feelings to which he had long been
a stranger, revived Gregory greatly, and he sprang up and walked the room, declaring that with
the exception of his burned hand, which had been carefully dressed, he felt better than he
had for a long time.

"I'm so thankful!" said Annie, with glistening eyes.

"We all have cause for thankfulness," said Mr. Walton, with fervor. "Our kind Father in heaven
has dealt with us all in tender mercy. Home, and more precious life, have been spared. Before
we again seek a little rest, let us remember all His goodness;" and he led them in a simple,
fervent prayer, the effect of which was heightened by Mr. Walton saying, after he rose from
his knees, "Annie, we must see that none of our poor neighbors lack for anything, now that
their employment has so suddenly been taken away."

That is acceptable devotion to God which leads to practical, active charity toward men, and
the most unbelieving are won by such a religion.

Annie noticed with some anxiety that her father's voice was very hoarse, and that he put his
hand upon his chest several times, and she expressed the fear that the exposure would greatly
add to his cold. He treated the matter lightly, and would do nothing more that evening than
take some simple remedies.

When Gregory bade them good-night, Annie followed him to the foot of the stairs, and giving
his hand one of her warm grasps, said, "Mr. Gregory, I can't help feeling that your mother
knows what you have done to-night."

Tears started to his eyes. He did not trust himself to reply, but, with a strong answering
pressure, hastened to his room, happier than he had been in all his past.

It was late the next morning when they assembled at the breakfast- table, and they noted with
pain that Mr. Walton did not appear at all well, though he made a great effort to keep up.
He was very hoarse, and complained of a tightness in his chest.

"Now, father," said Annie, "you must stay in the house, and let me nurse you."

"I am very willing to submit," he replied, "and hope I shall need no other physician." But
he was feverish all day. His indisposition did not yield to ordinary remedies. Still, beyond
a little natural solicitude, no anxiety was felt.

Gregory was a different man. Even his sincere human love for so worthy an object had lifted
him out of the miserable depths into which he had been sinking. It had filled his heart with
pure longings, and made him capable of noble deeds.

As a general thing a woman inspires love in accordance with her own character. Of course we
recognize the fact that there are men with natures so coarse that they are little better than
animals. These men may have a passing passion for any pretty woman; but the holy word Love
should not be used in such connection. But of men--of those possessing true manhood, even in
humblest station--the above assertion I think will be found true. The woman who gains the boundless
power which the undivided homage of an honest heart confers will develop in it, and quicken
into life, traits and feelings corresponding to her own. If the great men of the world have
generally had good mothers, so as a parallel fact will it be found that the strong, useful,
successful men--men who sustain themselves, and more than fulfil the promise of their youth--have
been supplemented and continually inspired to better things by the ennobling companionship
of true women.

Good breeding, the ordinary restraints of self-respect, and fear of the world's adverse opinion,
greatly reduce the outward diversities of society. Well-bred men and women act and appear very
much alike in the public eye. But there is an inner life, a real character, upon which happiness
here and heaven hereafter depend, which results largely from that tie and intimacy which is
closest of all. A shallow, frivolous girl, having faith in little else than her pretty face
and the dressmaker's art, may unfortunately inspire a good, talented man, who imagines her
to possess all that the poets have portrayed in woman, with a true and strong affection, but
she will disappoint and dwarf him, and be a millstone about his neck. She will cease to be
his companion. She may be thankful if, in his heart, he does not learn to despise her, though
a man can scarcely do this and be guiltless toward the mother of his children.

What must be the daily influence on a man who sees in his closest friend, to whom he is joined
for life, a passion for the public gaze, a boundless faith in eternals, a complete devotion
to the artificial enhancing of ordinary and vanishing charms, combined with a contemptuous
neglect of the graces of mind and heart? These alone can keep the love which outward appearance
in part may have won at first. Mere dress and beauty are very well to skirmish with during
the first approaches; but if a woman wishes to hold the conquered province of a man's heart,
and receive from it rich revenues of love and honor, she must possess some queenly traits akin
to divine royalty, otherwise she only overruns the heart she might have ruled, and leaves it
a blighted waste.

As we have seen, Annie's actual character rebuked and humiliated the evil-minded Gregory from
the first. He could not rest in her presence. To relieve himself from self-condemnation, he
must prove her goodness a sham or an accident--mere chance exemption from temptation. Her safety
and happy influence did not depend upon good resolutions, wise policy, and careful instruction,
but upon her real possession of a character which had been formed long before, and which met
and foiled him at every point. Lacking this, though a well-meaning, good girl in the main,
she would have been a plaything in the hands of such a man. Her absolute truth and crystal
purity of principle incased her in heaven's armor, and neither he nor any other evil-disposed
person could harm her. She would not listen to the first insidious suggestion of the tempter.
Thus the man who expected to go away despising now honored, reverenced, loved her, and through
her strong but gentle ministry had turned his back on evil, and was struggling to escape its
degrading bondage.

Gregory was right in thinking that such a woman as Annie could help him to an extent hard to
estimate, but fatally wrong in looking to her alone. The kind Father who regards the well-being
of His children for eternity rather than for the moments of time, must effectually cure him
of this error.

But those two days were memorable ones to him. The cold and stormy weather shut them all in
the house, and that meant to him Annie's society. He was seldom alone with her; he noted with
pain that her manner was too frank and kindly, too free from all consciousness, to indicate
anything more than the friendship she had promised; but, not knowing how her heart was preoccupied,
he hoped that the awakening of deeper feeling was only a question of time. His present peace
and rest were so blessed, her presence was so satisfying, and his progress in her favor so
apparent as he revealed his better nature, that he was content to call his love friendship
until he saw her friendship turning into love.

Had not Annie expected Hunting every day she would have told Gregory all about her relation
with him, but now she determined that she would bring them together under the same roof, and
not let them separate till she had banished every trace of their difficulty. A partial reconciliation
might result in future coolness and estrangement. This she would regard as a misfortune, even
if it had no unfavorable influence on Gregory, for he now proved himself the best of company.
Indeed, they seemed to have a remarkable gift for entertaining each other.

While Wednesday did not find Mr. Walton seriously ill to all appearance, he was still far from
being well. He employed himself with his papers and seemed to enjoy Gregory's conversation greatly.

"He now grows very like his father, and reminds me constantly of him," he said more than once
to Annie.

Mr. Walton's indisposition was evidently not trivial. There was a soreness about the lungs
that made it painful for him to talk much, and he had a severe, racking cough. They were all
solicitude in his behalf. The family physician had been called, and it was hoped that a few
days of care would remove this cold.

As he sat in his comfortable arm-chair by the fire he would smilingly say he was having such
a good time and so much petting that he did not intend to get well very soon.

Though Gregory's burn was painful, and both hands were bruised and cut from climbing, he did
not regret the suffering, since it also secured from Annie some of the attention she would
otherwise have given her father.

Wednesday afternoon was pleasant, and Gregory went out for a walk. He did not return till rather
late, and, coming down to supper, found by his plate a letter which clouded his face instantly.

Annie was radiant, for the same mail had brought her one from Hunting, stating that he might
be expected any day now. As she saw Gregory's face darken, she said, "I fear your letter has
brought you unpleasant news."

"It has," he replied. "Mr. Burnett, the senior partner, is quite ill, and it is necessary that
I return immediately."

"I'm so sorry," she exclaimed, with such hearty emphasis that he looked at her earnestly and
said, "Are you really?"

"You shouldn't ask such a question," she answered, reproachfully.

"Why, Miss Walton, I've made a very long visit."

"So much has happened that it does seem a long time since you came. But I wish it were to be
longer. We shall miss you exceedingly. Besides," she added, with rising color, "I have a special
reason for wishing you to stay a little longer."

His color rose instantly also. She puzzled him, while he perplexed her.

"I hope Mr. Gregory's visit has taught him," said Mr. Walton, kindly, "that he has not lost
his former home through our residence here, and that he can run up to the old place whenever
he finds opportunity."

"I can say sincerely," he responded, "that I have enjoyed the perfection of hospitality;" adding,
in a low tone and with a quick, remorseful look at Annie, "though little deserving it."

"You have richly repaid us," said Mr. Walton, heartily. "It would have been very hard for me
at my years to have to seek a new home. I have become wedded to this old place with my feelings
and fancies, and the aged, you know, dislike change. I wish to make only one more, then rest
will be complete."

"Now, father," said Annie, with glistening eyes, "you must not talk in that way. You know well
that we cannot spare you even to go to heaven."

"Well, my child," answered he, fondly. "I am content to leave that in our best Friend's hands.
But I cannot say," he added, with a touch of humor, "that it's a heavy cross to stay here with
you."

"Would that such a cross were imposed upon me!" echoed Gregory, with sudden devoutness. "Miss
Walton, did not my business imperatively demand my presence, I would break anything save my
neck, in order to be an invalid on your hands."

"Come," cried Annie, half-vexed; "a truce to this style of remark. I think it's verging toward
the sentimental, and I'm painfully matter- of-fact. Father, you must not think of going to
heaven yet, and I don't like to hear you talk about it. Mr. Gregory can break his little finger,
if he likes, so we may keep him longer. But do let us all be sensible, and not think of anything
sad till it comes. Why should we? Mr. Gregory surely can find time to run up and see us, if
he wishes, and I think he will."

Before he could reply, an anxious remark from little Susie enabled them to leave the table
in the midst of one of those laughs that banish all embarrassment.

"But we'll be burned up if Mr. Gregory goes away."

CHAPTER XXVII

PLEADING FOR LIFE AND LOVE

Knowing that it was to be Gregory's last day with them, Annie determined it should be full
of pleasant memories. She sung with him, and did anything he asked. Her heart overflowed toward
him in a genial and almost sisterly regard, but his most careful analysis could find no trace
even of the inception of warmer feelings. She evidently had a strong and growing liking for
him, but nothing more, and she clearly felt the great interest in his effort to become a man
of Christian principles. This fact gave him his main hope. Her passion to save seemed so strong
that he trusted she might be approached even thus early upon that side.

He felt that he must speak--must get some definite hope for the future before he went away.
It seemed to him that he could fairly bring his great need as a motive to bear upon her. Her
whole course encouraged him to do this, for she had responded to every such appeal. Still with
fear and trembling he admitted that he was about to ask for more now than ever before.

But he felt that he must speak. He had no hope that he could ever be more than his wretched
self without her. He would ask nothing definite--only encouragement that if he could make himself
worthy of her she would give him a chance to win her love. In her almost sisterly frankness
it seemed that the idea of loving him had never occurred to her, and would not after he had
gone. The thought of leaving her heart all disengaged, for some other to come and make a stronger
impression, was torture. He never could be satisfied with the closest friendship, therefore
he must plainly seek a dearer tie, even though for a time their frank, pleasant relations should
be disturbed. He resolved to take no denial, but to give fair warning, before it was too late,
that he was laying siege to her heart. He dreaded that attitude of mind upon her part which
enables a woman to say to some men, "I could be your sister, but never your wife."

So he said before they separated for the night, "Miss Walton, I'm going to snatch a few hours
from the hurry and grind of business, and shall not return to town till to-morrow afternoon.
Won't you take one more ramble with me in the morning?"

"With pleasure," she replied, promptly. "I will devote myself to you to-morrow, and leave you
without excuse for not coming again."

He flushed with pleasure at her reply, but said, quickly, "By the way that reminds me. Won't
you tell me what your 'special reason' was for wishing me to stay a little longer?"

It was her turn to blush now, which she did in a way that puzzled him. She answered, hesitatingly,
"Well, I think I'll tell you to-morrow."

"Good-night," said Mr. Walton, feelingly retaining Gregory's hand when he came to his chair.
"We are coming to treat you almost as one of the family. Indeed it seems hard to treat you
in any other way now, especially in your old home, now doubly yours since you have saved it
from destruction. Every day you remind me more of my dear old friend. For some reason he has
seemed very near me of late. If it should be my lot to see your sainted parents before you
do, as it probably will, I believe it will be in my power to add even to their heavenly joys
by telling them of your present prospects. Good-night, and may the blessing of your father's
and mother's God rest upon you."

Tears sprung into the young man's eyes, and with a strong responsive pressure of Mr. Walton's
hand, he hastened to his room, to hide what was not weakness.

That was the last time he saw his father's friend.

Annie's eyes glistened as she looked after him, and throwing her arms around her father's neck,
she whispered, "God did send him here I now truly believe. We have not conspired and prayed
in vain."

Mr. Walton fondly stroked his daughter's brown hair, and said, "You are right, Annie; he will
be a gem in your crown of rejoicing. You have acted very wisely, very womanly, as your mother
would, in this matter. He was a bad man when he first came here, and if I had not known you
so well, I should not have trusted you with him as I have. Be as faithful through life, and
you may lead many more out of darkness."

"Dear father," said Annie, tenderly, "this whole day, with Charles's good letter, and crowned
with these precious words from you, seem like a benediction. May we have many more such."

"May God's will be done," said the riper Christian, with eyes turned homeward.

Thus in hope, peace, and gladness the day ended for all.

"Ye know not what shall be on the morrow."

To Gregory's unfeigned sorrow Mr. Walton was not well enough to appear at the breakfast-table
the following morning. Annie was flitting in and out with a grave and troubled face. But by
ten o'clock he seemed better and fell asleep. Leaving Miss Eulie watching beside him, she came
and said, "Now, Mr. Gregory, I can keep my promise in part, and take a short walk with you.
You can well understand why I cannot be away long."

"Please do not feel that you must go," he said. "However great the disappointment, I could
not ask you to leave your father if he needs you."

"You may rest assured that nothing would tempt me from father if he needed me. But I think
the worst is now over. He is sleeping quietly. I can trust aunty even better than myself. Besides,
I want to go. I need the fresh air, and I wish to see more of you before you leave us."

He cordially thanked her and said, "I shall wait for you on the piazza."

They went down across the lawn through the garden. The sun was shining brightly, though occasionally
obscured by clouds.

"How beautiful everything is," said Annie, "even now, when the leaves are half off the trees
and falling fast! At any season, the moment I get out of doors I feel new life and hope."

"What nature does for you, Miss Annie, you seem to do for others. I feel 'new life and hope'
the moment I am with you."

She looked at him quickly, for she did not quite like his tone and manner. But she only said,
"You must believe, as I do, in a power behind nature."

"But even you believe He works through human agencies."

"Yes, up to a certain point."

"But who can say where that point is in any experience? Miss Walton," he continued, in grave
earnestness, stopping and pointing to the rustic seat where, on the previous Sabbath, he had
revealed to her his evil life, "that place is sacred to me. No hallowed spot of earth to which
pilgrimages are made can compare with it. You know that in some places in Europe they raise
a rude cross by the roadside where a man has been murdered. Should there not be a monument
where one was given life?"

As they resumed their walk, he said in a low, meaning tone, "Do you remember old Daddy Tuggar's
words--'You could take the wickedest man living straight to heaven if you'd stay right by him?'"

"But he was wrong," she replied.

"Pardon me if I differ with you, and agree with him. Miss Walton, I've been in your society
scarcely three weeks. You know what I was when I came. I make no great claims now, but surely
if tendencies, wishes, purposes count for anything, I am very different. How can you argue
me out of the consciousness that I owe it all to you?"

"You will one day understand," she answered, earnestly, "that God has helped us both, and how
futile my efforts would have been without such help. But, Mr. Gregory," she continued, looking
frankly into his flushed face (for she was beginning to suspect now something of his drift,
and instinctively sought to ward off words which might disturb their pleasant relations), "I
do not intend to give you up from this day forth. As our quaint old friend suggests, I do mean
to stand right by you as far as circumstances will allow me. I recognize how isolated and lonely
you are, and I feel almost a sister's interest in you."

"You emphasize the word 'sister.' I suppose I ought to be more than satisfied. Believe me I
am very grateful that you can so speak. But suppose the frankness I promised compels me to
say that it does not, and never can satisfy?"

"Then I shall think you very unreasonable. You have no right to ask more than one has the power
to give," she answered, with a look and manner that were full of pain. "But surely, Mr. Gregory,
we do not understand each other."

"But I want you to understand me," he exclaimed, earnestly. "If you had the vanity and worldly
experience of most women, you would have known before this that I love you."

Tears rushed into Annie's eyes, and for a few moments she walked on in utter silence. This
was so different an ending from what she had expected! She felt that she must be very careful
or she would undo all she had attempted. She now dreaded utter failure, utter estrangement,
and how to avoid these was her chief thought.

They had reached the cedar thicket near which they had first met, and she sat down upon the
rock where she had found Gregory. Her whole aim was to end this unfortunate matter so that
they might still continue friends. And yet the task seemed wellnigh impossible, for if he felt
as he said, how could she tell him about Hunting without increasing alienation? But her impression
was strong that he was acting under an exaggerated sense of her services and under a mistaken
belief that she was essential to him. Therefore she tried at first to turn the matter off lightly
by saying, "Mr. Gregory, you are the most grateful man I ever heard of. You need not think
you must reward my slight services by marrying me."

"Now you greatly wrong me," he answered. "Did I not say I loved you? How deeply and truly you
can never know. I cannot reward you. I did not dream of such a thing. My best hope was that
some time in the future, when by long and patient effort I had become truly a man, you might
learn to think of me in the way I wish."

"Mr. Gregory," said she, in a voice full of trouble, "has my manner or words led you to hope
this? If so, I can never forgive myself."

"You have no cause for self-reproaches," he said, earnestly. "Though my suit should ever prove
hopeless, in the depths of my heart I will acquit you of all blame. You have been what you
promised--a true friend, nothing more. But please understand me. I ask nothing now, I am not
worthy. Perhaps I never shall be. If so, I will not bind you to me with even a gossamer thread.
I have too deep a respect for you. But I am so self-distrustful! I know my weakness better
than you can. Still I am confident that if you could 'reward' me, and give the hope that you
would crown the victory with yourself, I could do anything. In loving me, you would save me."

"Pardon me, but you are all wrong. I'm only an oar, but you look upon me as the lifeboat itself.
In that you persist in looking to me, a weak, sinful creature, instead of to Him who alone
'taketh away the sin of the world,' you discourage me utterly."

"I will look to Him, but I want you to lead me to Him, and keep me at His side."

"I can do that just as well by being your friend."

"I can never think so. I shall go away from this place utterly disheartened unless you give
me some hope, no matter how faint, that I shall not have to struggle alone."

She sprung up quickly, for he incensed her, while at the same time she pitied him. She could
not understand how he had so soon learned to love her "deeply and truly." It rather appeared
true that he had formed the mistaken opinion that she was essential to his success, and that
he was bent upon bolstering himself up in his weakness, and sought to place her as a barrier
between him and his old evil life; and she felt that he might need some wholesome truth rather
than tender sympathy. At any rate her womanly nature took offence at his apparent motive, as
she understood it--a motive that appeared more selfish and unworthy every moment. He was asking
what he had no right to expect of any one. But she would not misunderstand him, and therefore
said with a grave, searching look, "Only then as I give you the hope you ask for, will you
make the effort you have promised to make?"

"Only then can I make it," he replied, in some confusion. "Can effort of any kind be asked
of one utterly disabled?"

Sudden fire leaped into her dark eyes, but she said, with dignity, "Mr. Gregory, you disappoint
me greatly. You assume a weakness--a disability--which does not and cannot exist under the
circumstances. You made me a promise, but now impose a new condition which I did not dream
of at the time, and which I cannot accept. You are asking more than you have a right to ask.
However imperfect my efforts have been in your behalf, they were at least sincere and unselfish,
and I was beginning to have a warm regard for you as a friend. I tell you frankly that I am
most anxious that we should remain friends as before. If so, this kind of folly must cease
now and forever. I have no right to listen to such words at all, and would not but for your
sake, and in the hope of removing from your mind a very mistaken and unworthy idea. You are
entirely wrong in thinking that your future depends solely upon me. It cannot--it ought not.
It rests between you and God, and you cannot shift the responsibility. I am willing to do all
you can ask of a sister, but no more. Do you think I have no needs, no weakness, myself? In
a husband I want a man I can lean upon as well as help. I wish to marry one with a higher moral
character than mine, to whom I can look up. There is the widest difference in the world between
giving help, and even sincere affection to those who win it, and giving one's self away. Simple
justice requires that my happiness and feelings be considered also. It is selfish in you to
ask of me this useless sacrifice of myself."

Annie's quick, passionate nature was getting the better of her. It seemed in a certain sense
disloyalty to Hunting to have listened thus long to Gregory. Moreover, not believing in nor
understanding the latter's love for her, she was indignant that he should seek to employ her
as a sort of stepping-stone into heaven. She would despise the man who sought her merely to
advance his earthly interests, and she was growing honestly angry at Gregory, who, it seemed,
wanted her only as a guide and staff in his pilgrimage--justly angry, too, if she were right.

Gregory became very pale as her words quivered in his heart like arrows, but in the consciousness
of a true and unselfish love, he looked at her unfalteringly to the last, and said, "In justice
to myself I might again urge that you misunderstand me. I asked for nothing now, only a hope
for the future based on what I possibly might become. But, as you say, I now know I asked too
much--more than I had a right to. You can never look up to me, and with a sadness you will
never understand, I admit myself answered finally. But there is one imputation in your words
that I cannot rest under. I solemnly assert before God, and in the name of my mother, that
my love for you is as strong, pure, and unselfish as can exist in my half-wrecked nature."

"Oh dear!" exclaimed Annie, in a tone of mingled vexation and distress, "why has it all turned
out so miserably? I'm so sorry, so very sorry; but in kindness I must show you how hopeless
it all is. I am the same as engaged to another."

Gregory started violently. His despairing words had been not quite despairing. But now a chill
like death settled about his heart. He was well satisfied that she was one who would be true
as steel to all such ties, and that no man who had learned to know her would ever prove inconstant.
But, with a white face and firmly compressed lips, he still listened quietly.

"I came out this morning hoping to tell you a little secret as I might confide in a brother,
and I trusted that your friendship for me would prove strong enough to enable me to make you
his friend also. I wanted you to stay a little longer, that you might meet him, and that I
might reconcile you, and prepare the way for pleasant companionship in the future. I am expecting
Charles Hunting now every--

"What is the matter? What do you mean by that look of horror? What have you against him, that
you should show such deep hostility before, and now stare at me in almost terror?"

But he only staggered against a tree for support.

"Speak," cried she, passionately seizing his arm. "I will not endure the innuendo of your look
and manner."

"I will speak," he answered, in sudden vehemence. "I've lost too much by him. Charles Hunting is--"

But he stopped, clinched his hands, and seemed to make a desperate effort at self-control.
She heard him mutter as he turned away a few steps, "Stop! stop! All that is left you now is
a little self-respect. Keep that--keep that."

Annie misunderstood him, and thought he referred to some slander that he had hesitated to utter
against his enemy even in his anger and jealousy. With flashing eyes she said, "Let me complete
the sentence for you. Charles Hunting is a Christian gentleman. You may well think twice before
you speak one word against him in my presence."

"Did I say one word against him?" he asked, eagerly.

"No, but you looked much more than words can express."

"I could not help that. Your revelation was sudden, Miss Walton."

"How could it be otherwise?" she asked, indignantly. "The first evening of your arrival, when
his name was mentioned, your face grew as black as night. When I again sought to speak to you
of him, you adjured me never to mention his name. You taxed my forbearance severely at that
time. But I hoped you would become so changed that such enmity would be impossible."

"I see it all now," he groaned--"the miserable fatality of it all. I must shut off the one
way of escape, and then go forward. By my own act, I must destroy my one chance. If I had only
known this in time. And yet it's through my own act that I did not know. Your God is certainly
one of justice. I'm punished now for all the past. But it seems a trifle cruel to show one
heaven and then shut the door in one's face. If I had only known!"

"There," exclaimed Annie, in the deepest distress; "because of this little thing you fall back
into your old scepticism."

"This 'little thing' is death to me," he said, in a hard, bitter tone. "Oh no, I'm not at all
sceptical. The 'argument from design,' the nature of the result, are both too clear. I'm simply
being dealt with according to law. Though perfectly sincere, you were entirely too lenient
that Sunday evening when I told you what I was. My conscience was right after all. I only wish
that I had fallen from yonder roof the other night. I might then have made my exit decently."

"Mr. Gregory, you shock me," she said, almost sternly. "You have no right to insult my faith
in a merciful God by such words, and your believing Him cruel and vindictive on this one bit
of your experience is the sheerest egotism. It is the essence of selfishness to think everything
wrong when one does not have one's own way."

He only bowed his answer, then stepped out to the point of the hill, and took a long, lingering
look at the valley and his old home, sighed deeply, turned, and said to her, quietly, "Perhaps
it is time for you to return to your father."

CHAPTER XXVIII

WHAT A LOVER COULD DO

Without a word they descended the hill. Gregory was very pale, and this, with a certain firmness
about his mouth, was the only indication of feeling on his part. Otherwise, he was the same
finished man of the world that he had appeared when he came. Annie's face grew more and more
troubled with every glance at him.

"He is hardening into stone," she thought; and she was already reproaching herself for speaking
so harshly. "I might have known," she thought, "that his rash, bitter words were only incoherent
cries of pain and disappointment."

He perplexed her still more by saying at the foot of the hill, in his old light tone, "See,
Miss Walton, our 'well-meaning friend' has not been here to put up the bars, and we can take
the shorter way through the orchard. I would like to see them picking apples once more. By
the way, you must say good-by for me to your old neighbor, and tell him that out of respect
for his first honest greeting, I'm going to fill his pipe for the winter."

But Annie's heart was too full to answer.

"How familiar these mossy-trunked trees are!" he continued, determined that there should be
no awkward pauses, no traces to the eyes of others of what had occurred. "How often I've picked
apples from this one and that one--indeed from all! Good-by, old friends."

"Do you never expect to come back to these 'old friends,' and others that would be friends
again?" she asked, in low, trembling tones. "Mr. Gregory, you are cruel. You are saying good-by
as if it were a very ordinary matter."

He did not trust himself to look at her, but he said, firmly, "Miss Walton, in a few moments
we shall be under the eyes of others, and perhaps I shall never have another chance to speak
to you alone. Let me say a few plain, honest words before I go. I am not ashamed of my love
for you, nor to have it known. I am glad there was man enough in me to love such a woman as
you are. You are not one of those society belles who wish to boast of their conquests. I wish
merely to leave in a manner that will save you all embarrassing questions and surmises, and
enable you to go back to your father as if nothing had happened. The best I can do is to maintain
the outward semblance of a gentleman with which I came. In regard to Charles Hunting--please
listen patiently--I know that you will not believe any statement of mine. It is your nature
to trust implicitly those you love. But since I have had time to think, even the little conscience
I possess will not permit me to go away in silence in regard to him. Do not think my words
inspired by jealousy. I have given you up. You are as unattainable by me as heaven. But that
man is not worthy of you. Think well before you--"

"You are right," she interrupted, hotly. "I will not believe anything against him whom I have
known and loved for years. If sincere, you are mistaken. But I entreat you, for my own sake
as well as yours, never speak a word against him again. Because, if you do, it will be hard
for me to forgive you. If you place the slightest value on my good opinion and continued regard,
you will not throw them away so uselessly. I do feel--I ever wish to feel--a deep and friendly
interest in you, therefore speak for yourself, and I will listen with honest sympathy. Give
me hope, if possible, that you will think better of all this folly--that you will visit your
old home and those who wish to be your true friends--that you will give me a chance to make
you better acquainted with one whom you now greatly wrong. Please give me something better
than this parting promises to end in."

He merely bowed and said, "I supposed it would be so. It is like you. As for myself--I do not
know what my future will be, save that it will be full of pain. Rest assured of one thing,
however. I can never be a common, vulgar sinner again, after having loved you. That would be
sacrilege. Your memory will blend with that of my mother, and shine like a distant star in
my long night. But you have no right to ask me to come here any more. Though you do not believe
in my love, it is a reality nevertheless, and I cannot inflict upon myself the unbearable pain
of seeing you, yet hedged about with that which must ever keep me at a distance. With my feelings,
even my poor sense of honor forbids my seeking your presence. Can I visit you feigning friendship,
while my heart is consuming with love? Come, Miss Walton, we shall have our real leave taking
here, and our formal one at the house. I don't think gratitude will ever fade out of my heart
for all you have tried to do for me, wherever I am. Even the 'selfish' Walter Gregory can honestly
wish you happiness unalloyed. And you will have it, too, in spite of-- well, in spite of everything,
for your happiness is from within, not without. Give me your hand, and say good-by under the
old mossy trees."

Annie burst into tears and said, "I can't say good-by and have you leave us so unhappy--so
unbelieving. Mr. Gregory, will you never trust in God?"

"I fear not--not after what I know to-day. He seems wronging you who are so true to Him, as
well as me. You see I am honest with you, as I said I would be. Can you take the hand of such
as I?"

She did take it in both of hers, and said, with passionate earnestness, "O that I could save
you from yourself by main force!"

He was deeply moved, but after a moment said, gently, "That is like your warm heart. But you
cannot. Good-by, Annie Walton. Go on in your brave, noble life to the end, and then heaven
will be the better for your coming."

"Will you forgive my harsh words?"

"They were more true than harsh. They were forgiven when spoken."

"Mr. Gregory," she cried, "I will not say farewell as you say it. I have prayed for you, and
so has your mother. I will still pray for you unceasingly. You cannot prevent it, and I will
not doubt God's promise to hear."

"I cannot share your faith. I am saying good-by in the saddest sense."

He stooped and kissed her hand, and then said, firmly, "The end has come. We really part here.
I leave you as I came."

With eyes downcast and blinded with tears she accompanied him out of the deep shade to the
further side of the orchard nearest the house. Jeff was on a tall ladder that leaned against
a heavily laden tree, and was just about to descend.

"That's right," cried Gregory; "come down with your basket and give me a taste of those apples.
They look the same as when I used to pick them sixteen years ago."

Jeff obeyed with alacrity. Gregory accompanied him a few steps, and dropped a banknote into
the basket, saying, "That's for the jolly wood-fires you made for me," and then turned quickly
toward Annie to escape the profuse thanks impending.

He had turned none too soon. The apple-boughs, relieved of the weight of the fruit and Jeff's
solid person, threw out the heavy ladder that had been placed too nearly in a perpendicular
position at first. It had trembled and wavered a moment, but was now inclining over the very
spot where Annie was standing.

"Miss Walton!" he cried, with a look of horror; rushed toward her, and stood with head bent
down between her and the falling ladder.

She heard a rushing sound, and then with a heavy thud the ladder struck him, glanced to one
side, grazing her shoulder, and fell to the ground.

He lay motionless beneath it.

For a moment she gazed vacantly at him, too stunned to think or speak.

But Jeff ran and lifted the ladder off Gregory, exclaiming, "Lor' bless him, Miss Annie, he
jus' done save your life."

She knelt at his side and took his hand, but it seemed that of the dead. She moaned, "The omen's
true. His blood is on me now--his blood is on me now. He died for my sake, and I called him
selfish."

She took his head into her lap, and put her hand over his heart.

She thought she felt a faint pulsation.

In a moment all trace of weakness vanished, and her face became resolute and strong.

"Jeff," she said, in clear-cut, decided tones, "go to the house, tell Hannah and Zibbie to
come here; tell Hannah to bring brandy and a strong double blanket. Not a word of this to my
father. Go, quick."

Jeff ran as he had done once before when the bloodhounds were after him, saying under his breath
all the way, "Lor' bless him! He save Miss Annie's life; he orter have her sure 'nuff."

Annie was left alone with the unconscious man. She pushed his hair from his damp brow, and,
bending down, impressed a remorseful kiss upon it.

"God forgive me that I called you selfish," she murmured. "Where is your spirit wandering that
I cannot call it back? O live, live; I can never be happy if you die. Can this be the end?
God keep my faith from failing."

Again she put her hand over his heart, whose love she could doubt no more. Did it beat? or
was it only the excited throbbing of her own hand?

Jeff now returned, and, with white, scared faces, the women soon followed. Annie tried to give
Gregory brandy, but he did not seem to swallow it. They then lifted him on the blanket and
carried him to the house, and up the back stairway to his room, so that Mr. Walton might not know.

"Now, Jeff," whispered Annie, "harness the fastest horse to the buggy, and bring the doctor--mind,
bring him. Don't tell him to come. Hannah, tell Miss Eulie to come here--quietly now. Zibbie,
bring hot water."

Again she poured a teaspoonful of brandy into his mouth, and this time he seemed to swallow
it. She bathed his face and hands with spirits, while her every breath was a prayer.

Miss Eulie did not want a long explanation. Annie's hurried words, "A ladder fell on him,"
satisfied her, and she set to work, and more effectively with her riper experience. She took
off his collar and opened his shirt at the throat, and soon, with a look of joy, to Annie,
said, "His heart beats distinctly."

Again they gave him brandy, and this time he made a manifest effort to swallow it.

With eyes aglow with excitement and hope they re-doubled their exertions, Hannah and Zibbie
helping, and at last they were rewarded by seeing their patient make a faint movement.

Now with every breath Annie silently sent the words heavenward, "O God, I thank thee."

She bent over him, and said, in a low, thrilling tone, "Mr. Gregory." A happy smile came out
upon his face, but this was the only response.

"Do you think he is conscious?" she whispered to her aunt.

"I hardly know. Let me give him a little more stimulant."

After receiving it he suddenly opened his eyes and looked fearfully around. Then he tried to
rise, but fell back, and asked, faintly, "Where is Miss Walton? Is she safe? I heard her voice."

"You did. I'm here. Don't you know me?"

"Are you really here unhurt?"

"Yes, yes," she answered, eagerly; "thanks to you."

Again he closed his eyes with a strange and quiet smile.

"Can't you see me?" she asked.

"There seems a blur before my eyes. It does not signify. I know your voice, so true and kind."

"Why can't he see?" she asked, drawing her aunt aside.

"I don't know. What I fear most are internal injuries. Did the ladder strike his head?"

"O merciful Heaven!" said Annie, again in an agony of fear. "I don't know. Oh, if he should
die--if he should die--" and she wrung her hands with terror at the thought.

The doctor now stepped lightly in. Jeff had told him enough to excite the gravest apprehensions.
He made a few inquiries and felt Gregory's pulse.

"It's very feeble," he said. "More brandy."

Then he added, "I must make such examination as I can now without disturbing him much. Miss
Morton, you and Jeff stay and help me."

Annie went down to her father with a greater anxiety as to the result of the examination than
if the danger had been her own.

She found her father awake, and wondering at the sounds in the room above.

"Annie," he said, feebly, "what is going on in Mr. Gregory's room?"

As she looked at him, she saw that he was not better, as she hoped, but that his face had a
shrunken look, betokening the rapid failing of the vital forces. The poor girl felt that trouble
was coming like an avalanche, and in spite of herself she sat down, and, burying her face in
her father's bosom, sobbed aloud. But she soon realized the injury she might do him in thus
giving way, and by a great effort controlled herself so as to tell him the softened outlines
of the accident. But the ashen hue deepened on the old man's face, as he said, fervently, "God
bless him! God bless him! He has saved my darling's life. What should I have done in these
last days without you?"

"But, father, don't you think he will get well?" she asked, eagerly.

"I hope so. I pray so, my child. But I know the ladder, and it is a heavy one. This is time
for faith in God. We cannot see a hand's- breadth in the darkness before us. He has been very
merciful to us thus far, very merciful, and no doubt has some wise, good purpose in these trials
and dangers. Just cling to Him, my child, and all will be well."

"O father, how you comfort me! We must leave everything in His hands. But, father, you feel
better, do you not?"

"Yes, much better; not much pain now; and yet for some reason I feel that I shall soon be where
pain never comes. How otherwise can I explain my almost mortal weakness?"

Annie again hid her tearful eyes on the bedside. Her father placed his hand upon her bowed
head and continued, "It won't break your heart, my little girl, will it, to have your father
go to heaven?"

But she could not answer him.

At last the doctor came down, and said, "His injuries are certainly serious, and may be more
so than I can yet discover. The ladder grazed his head, inflicting some injury, and struck
him on the shoulder, which is much bruised, and the collar-bone is badly broken. The whole
system has received a tremendous shock, but I hope that with good care he will pull through.
But he must be kept very quiet in mind and body. And so must you, sir. Now you know all, and
have nothing to suspect. It's often injurious kindness to half hide something from the sick."

"Well, doctor, do your very best by him, as if he were my own son. You know what a debt of
gratitude we owe him. Spare no expense. If he needs anything, let it be sent for. If I were
only up and around; but the Lord wills it otherwise."

Annie followed the physician out and said, "You have told us the very worst then?"

"Yes, Miss Walton, the very worst. Unless there are injuries that I cannot now detect I think
he will get better. I will send a young man whom I can trust to take care of him. Best assured
I will do all that is possible, for I feel very grateful to this stranger for saving my much-esteemed
little friend. I suppose you know we all think a great deal of you in our neighborhood, and
I shudder to think how near we came to a general mourning. You see he was nearer the base of
the ladder than you, Jeff says. The ladder therefore would have struck you with greater force,
and you would not have had a ghost of a chance. You ought to be very grateful, eh, Miss Annie?"
he added, with a little sly fun in his face.

But she shook her head sadly, and only said with deep feeling, "I am very, very grateful."
Then she added, quickly, "What about father?"

The doctor's face changed instantly and became grave.

"I don't quite understand his case. He was threatened with pneumonia; but there seems no acute
disease now, and yet he appears to be failing. The excitement and exposure of the other night
were too much for him. You must make him take all the nourishment possible. Medicine is of no use."

Agitated by conflicting fears and hopes Annie went to the kitchen to make something that might
tempt her father's appetite.

Blessed are the petty and distracting cares of the household, the homely duties of the sick-room.
They divert the mind and break the force of the impending blow. If, when illness and death
invade a house, the fearing and sorrowing ones had naught to do but sit down and watch the
remorseless approach of the destroyer, they might go mad.

When Annie stole noiselessly back to Gregory's room he was sleeping, though his breathing seemed
difficult.

What a poor mockery the dinner hour was! Even the children were oppressed by the general gloom
and talked in whispers. But before it was over there came a bright ray of light to Annie in
the form of a telegram from Hunting, saying that he had arrived in New York safely, and would
be at the village on the 5 P.M. train.

"O I am so glad!" cried Annie; "never was he so needed before."

And yet there was a remorseful twinge at her heart as she thought of Gregory. But she felt
sure of reconciliation now, for would not Hunting overwhelm her preserver with gratitude, and
forgive everything in the past?

She said to Jeff, "Have Dolly and the low buggy ready for me at half- past four."

Her father seemed peculiarly glad when he heard that his relative, the man he hoped would soon
be his son, was coming.

"It's all turning out for the best," he said, softly.

The hour soon came, for it was already late, and Annie slipped away, leaving both her father
and Gregory sleeping. To her great joy Hunting stepped down from the train and was quickly
seated by her side. As they drove away in the dusk he could not forbear a rapturous kiss and
embrace which she did not resist.

"O Charles, I'm so glad you've come--so very glad!" she exclaimed almost breathlessly; "and
I've so much to tell you that I hardly know where to begin. How good God is to send you to
me now, just when I need you most!"

"So you find that you can't do without me altogether? That's grand news. How I've longed for
this hour! If I'd had my own way I would have exploded the boilers in my haste to reach port
to see you again. It was real good of you to come, and not send for me. Come Annie, celebrate
my return by the promise that you will soon make a home for me. I am happy to say that I can
now give you the means of making it a princely one."

"I haven't the time nor the heart to think about that now, Charles. Father is very ill. I'm
exceedingly anxious about him."

"Indeed!" said Hunting, "that is bad news;" and yet his grief was not very deep, for he thought,
"If she is left alone she will come to me at once."

"What is more," cried Annie, a little hurt at the quiet manner in which he received her tidings,
"suppose, instead of meeting me strong and well, you had found me a crushed and lifeless corpse
to-night?"

"Annie," he said, "what do you mean?"

"I mean that this would have been true but for one with whom I am sorry you are on bad terms.
Walter Gregory is at our house."

He gave a great start at the mention of this name, and even in the deep twilight his face seemed
very white.

"I don't understand," he almost gasped.

"I knew you would be deeply affected," said the unsuspicious Annie. "He stood between me and
death to-day, and it may cost him his own life. He was severely injured--how badly we can hardly
tell yet;" and she rapidly related all that had occurred. "And now, Charles," she concluded,
"no matter what he may have done, or how deeply he may have wronged you, I'm sure you'll do
everything in your power to effect a complete reconciliation, and cement a lasting friendship.
If possible, you must become his untiring nurse. How much you owe him!"

She noticed that he was trembling. After a moment he asked, hesitatingly, "Has he--how long
has he been here, did you say?"

"About three weeks. You know our place was his old home, and his father was a very dear friend
of my father."

"If I knew it I had forgotten it," he answered, with a chill of fear growing deeper every moment.
"Did he--has he said anything about our difficulties?"

"Nothing definite," said she, a little wonderingly at Hunting's manner. "Father happened to
mention your name the first evening of his arrival, and the bitter enmity that came out upon
his face quite startled me. You know well that I wouldn't hear a word against you. He once
commenced saying something to your prejudice, but I stopped him and said I would neither listen
to nor believe him--that he did not know you, and was entirely mistaken in his judgment. It
was evident to us that Mr. Gregory was not a good man. Indeed, he made no pretence of being
one; but he has changed since, as yon can well understand, or he couldn't have sacrificed himself
as he has to-day. I told father that I thought the cause of your trouble arose from your trying
to restrain him in some of his fast ways, but he thought it resulted from business relations."

"You were both right," said Hunting, slowly, as if he were feeling his way along. "He was inclined
to be very dissipated, and I used to remonstrate with him; but the immediate cause was a business
difficulty. He would have kept me out of a great deal of money if he could."

His words were literally true, but they gave an utterly false impression. Annie was satisfied,
however. It seemed a natural explanation, and she trusted Hunting implicitly. Indeed, with
her nature, love could scarcely exist without trust.

"That's all past now," said Annie, eagerly. "You surely will not let it weigh with you a moment.
Indeed, Charles, I shall expect you to do everything in your power to make that man your friend."

"O, certainly, I could not act otherwise," he said, rather absently. He was scheming with desperate
earnestness to meet and avert the impending dangers. Annie's frank and cordial reception showed
him that so far as she was concerned he was as yet safe. But he knew her well enough to feel
sure that if she detected falsehood in him his case would be nearly hopeless. He recognized
that he was walking on a mine that at any moment might be sprung. With his whole soul he loved
Annie Walton, and it would be worse than death to lose her. The thought of her had made every
gross temptation fall harmless at his feet, and even his insatiate love of wealth had been
mingled with the dearer hope that it would eventually minister to her happiness. But he had
lived so long in the atmosphere of Wall Street that his ideas of commercial integrity had become
exceedingly blurred. When a questionable course opened by which he could make money, he could
not resist the temptation. He tried to satisfy himself that business required such action,
and called his sharp practice by the fine names of skill, sagacity. But when on his visits
to Annie, which, of late, during the worst of his transactions, had been frequent rather than
prolonged, he had had a growing sense of humiliation and fear. He saw that she could never
be made to look upon his affair with Burnett & Co. as he regarded it, and that her father was
the soul of commercial honor. Though Mr. Walton's fortune was moderate, not a penny had come
to him stained. After these visits Hunting would go back to the city, resolved to quit everything
illegitimate and become in his business and other relations just what he seemed to them. But
some glittering temptation would assail him. He would make one more adroit shuffle of the cards,
and then, from being hollow, would become morally and religiously sound at once.

During his voyage home, there was time for thought. A severe gale, while lashing the sea into
threatening waves, had also disturbed his guilty conscience. He had amassed sufficient to satisfy
even his greed of gold for the present, and his calculating soul hinted that it was time to
begin to put away a little stock in heaven as well as on earth. He resolved that he would withdraw
from the whirlpool of Wall Street speculation and engage in only legitimate operations. Moreover,
he began to long for the refuge and more quiet joys of home, and he felt, as did poor Gregory,
that Annie of all women could do most to make him happy here and fit him for the future life.
Therefore he had returned with the purpose of pressing his suit for a speedy marriage as strongly
as a safe policy would permit.

The bright October day of his arrival in New York seemed emblematic of his hopes and prospects,
and now again the deepening night, the rising wind, and the wildly hurrying clouds but mirrored
back himself.

His safest and wisest course would have been to make an honest confession to Annie of the wrong
he had done Gregory. As his mind recovered from its first confusion this thought occurred to
him. But he had already given her the impression that he had received the wrong, or rather
that it had been attempted against him. Moreover, by any truthful confession he would stand
convicted of deceiving and swindling Burnett & Co. He justly feared that Annie would break
with him the moment she learned this. So like all schemers, he temporized, and left his course
open to be decided by circumstances rather than principle.

His first course was to learn of Annie all that he could concerning Gregory and his visit,
so that he might act in view of the fullest knowledge possible. She told him frankly what had
occurred, so far as time permitted during their ride home. But of Gregory's love she did not
speak, and was perplexed as to her proper course. Loyalty to her lover seemed to require that
he should know all, and yet she was sure that Gregory would not wish her to speak of it, and
she owed so much to him that she felt she could not do what was contrary to his wishes. But
Hunting well surmised that, whether Annie knew it or not, Gregory could not have been in her
society three weeks and go away an indifferent stranger.

"Jeff can give me more light," he thought.

Conscious of deceit himself, he distrusted every one, even crystal- souled Annie.

CHAPTER XXIX

DEEPENING SHADOWS

Mr. Walton received Hunting in a fatherly way. Indeed, he looked upon the young man as a son,
and the thought of leaving Annie to his protection was an unspeakable comfort.

Altogether Hunting was reassured by his reception, which proved that his relations were as
yet undisturbed. But in the depths of his soul he trembled at the presence of Gregory in the
house; and when Miss Eulie came down and said, after an affectionate greeting, that Gregory
was in something like a stupor, he was even base enough to wish that he might never come out of it.

At the word "stupor," Annie's face grew pale. She had a growing dissatisfaction with Hunting's
manner in regard to Gregory, and felt that he did not feel or show the interest or gratitude
that he ought; but there was nothing tangible with which she could tax him.

The doctor, who came early in the evening, reassured her, and said that the state of partial
consciousness was not necessarily a dangerous symptom, as it might be the result of a severe
shock. The young man he brought was installed as nurse under Miss Eulie's charge, and Annie
said that Mr. Hunting would also take his turn as watcher.

Then she, Mr. Hunting, and her father had a long talk over what had happened in his absence,
Mr. Walton dwelling most feelingly on what he regarded as the providential character of the
visit from the son of his old friend.

"If he never leaves our house alive, I have a strong assurance that he will join his father
in the better home. Indeed, I may soon be there with them."

"Please don't talk so, father," pleaded Annie.

"Well, my child, perhaps it's best I should, and prepare your minds for what may be near. It's
a great consolation to see Charles again, and he will help you bear whatever is God's will."

"You can trust her to me," said Hunting, fervently. "I have ample means to gratify her most
extravagant wish, and my love will shelter her and think for her even as yours would. But I
trust you will soon share our home with us."

"I expect to, my children, but it will be our eternal home."

Annie strove bravely to keep her tears back, for her father's sake, but they would come.

"Annie," said Hunting, "won't you please let your father put this ring on your engagement finger?"
and he gave Mr. Walton a magnificent solitaire diamond.

Mr. Walton took his daughter's hand, and looked earnestly into her tearful, blushing face.

"Annie," he said, in a grave, sweet tone, "I hope for your sake that I may be wrong, but I
have a presentiment that my pilgrimage is nearly ended. You have made its last stage very happy.
A good daughter makes a good wife, Mr. Hunting; and, Annie, dear, I shall tell your mother
that you supplied her place, as far as a daughter could. It will add greatly to my peace if
I can leave you and my sister, and the dear little ones, under the care of one so competent
to protect and provide for you all. Mr. Hunting, do you feel that you can take them to your
home and heart, with my daughter?"

"Certainly," said Hunting. "I had no other thought; and Annie's will shall be supreme in her
future home."

"But, after all, the chief question is, Does this ring join your hearts? I'm sure I'm right
in thinking so, Annie?"

"Yes," she said, in a low tone.

Slowly, with his feeble, trembling hands he put the flashing gem on Annie's finger, and then
placed her hand in Hunting's, and, looking solemnly to heaven, said, "May God bless this betrothal
as your father blesses it."

Hunting stooped and kissed her hand and then her lips. With mingled truth and policy, he said,
"This ceremony is more solemn and binding to me than the one yet to come at the altar."

Annie was happy in her engagement. It was what she expected, and had been consummated in a
way that seemed peculiarly sweet and sacred; and yet her thoughts, with a remorseful tinge,
would keep recurring to the man who even then might be dying for her sake.

After they had sat a little while in silence, which is often the best expression of deep feeling,
she suddenly said, with an involuntary sigh, "Poor Mr. Gregory! I'm so sorry for him!"

Thus Hunting knew where her thoughts were, and instantly the purpose formed itself in his mind
to induce her through her father to consent to an immediate marriage. He saw more plainly than
Annie the great change in her father, and based his hope on the fact that the parent might
naturally wish to give his child a legal protector before he passed away.

Mr. Walton now showed such signs of weariness that they left him in Miss Eulie's care, who
seemed to flit like a ministering spirit between the two patients.

After the great excitement of the day, Annie, too, was very weary, and soon the household sought
such rest as was possible with two of its inmates apparently very near the boundaries that
separate the known world from the unknown. Glimmering all night long, like signals of distress
at sea, the faint lights of the watchers reminded late passers-by of the perilous nature of
earthly voyaging.

Annie had gone with Miss Eulie to take a parting look at Gregory. She bent over him and said,
"Mr. Gregory," but his spirit seemed to have sunk into such far depths that even her voice
could not summon him.

"Oh, if he should die now!" she moaned, shudderingly, and on the night of her engagement sobbed
herself to sleep.

The next morning saw little change in the patients, save that Mr. Walton was evidently weaker.
Miss Eulie said that Gregory had roused up during the night and seemed perfectly conscious.
He had inquired after Mr. Walton and Annie, but toward morning had fallen into his old lethargy.

After breakfast Annie took Hunting up to see him, but was pained at the darkening of her lover's
face as he looked at the prostrate and unconscious man. She could not understand it. He seemed
to have no wish to remain. She felt almost indignant, and yet what could she say more than
she had said? Gregory's condition, and the cause, should naturally plead for him beyond all words.

Annie spent most of the day with her father, and purposed watching with him that night. The
doctor came and reported more favorably of Gregory, but said that everything depended upon
his being quiet. Annie purposed that Hunting should commence the duties of watcher as soon
as possible. Therefore she told her aunt to tell Gregory, as soon as she thought it would answer,
that Hunting had arrived. In the afternoon, Gregory seemed to come out of his lethargy more
decidedly than he had before, and took some nourishment with marked relish. Then he lay quietly
looking at the fire.

"Do you feel better now?" Miss Eulie asked, gently.

"I'm sure I don't know," he answered, wearily. "I have a numb, strange feeling."

"Would you like to see Miss Walton?"

"No, not now; I am satisfied to know she is well."

"She wished me to tell you that Mr. Hunting had arrived."

He turned away his face with a deep scowl, but said nothing.

After some time she came to his side and said, "Is there anything you would like?"

"Nothing," he replied, gently. "I appreciate your great kindness."

Miss Eulie sighed and left the room, feeling dimly that there were internal injuries after
all, but such as were beyond the doctor's skill.

Annie echoed her sigh when she heard how he received Miss Eulie's information. She determined
to prepare and take him his supper.

When she noiselessly entered, he was again looking fixedly at the fire. But she had not advanced
far into the room before he recognized her step and looked up quickly.

"See," she said, cheerily, coming to his side, "I've prepared and brought you this supper with
my own hands, and shall expect in return that you compliment it highly. Now, isn't it a good
supper?" she asked, holding it before him.

But his eyes fastened on the glittering and significant ring, whose meaning he too well understood.
With an expression of intense pain he turned his face to the wall without a word.

"Mr. Gregory," pleaded Annie, "I never thought you would turn away from me."

"Not from you, not from you," he said, in a low tone, "but I'm very weak, and the light of
that diamond is too strong for me yet."

"Forgive me," she said, in a tone of deep reproach; "I did not think."

"No, forgive me. Please leave me now, and remember in charity how weak I am."

She put the tray down and hastened from the room. He ate no supper that night, neither did
she. Hunting watched her gloomily, with both fear and jealousy at heart. The latter, however,
was groundless, for Annie's feeling was only that of profound sorrow for something she could
not help. But lack of strongly manifested interest and sympathy for Gregory injured him in
her estimation; for woman-like she unconsciously took the side of the one he wronged. She could
understand Gregory's enmity, but it seemed to her that Hunting should be full of generous enthusiasm
for one who was suffering so much in her behalf.

"Men are so strange!" she said, half-vexedly. "They fall in love without the slightest provocation,
and hate each other forever, when a woman would have sharp words and be over with it. They
never do what you would naturally expect."

During the day Hunting had found time to see Jeff alone, but had found him inclined to be sullen
and uncommunicative. Jeff had changed sides, and was now an ardent adherent of Gregory's, who
had given him five dollars without imposing any conditions; and then, what was of far greater
import, had saved the house and Annie's life, and, according to Jeff's simple views of equity,
he ought to have both. And yet a certain rude element of honesty made him feel that he had
made a bargain with Hunting, and that he must fulfil his part and then they would be quits.
But he was not disposed to do it with a very good grace. So when Hunting said, "Well, Jeff,
I suppose you've seen a good deal since I was last here."

"Yes, I've seen a mighty lot," said Jeff, sententiously.

"Well, Jeff, you remember our agreement. What did you see? Only the truth now."

"Sartin, sah, only de truf. I'se belong to de Walton family, and yous doesn't get nothin' but
de truf from dem."

"All right, Jeff; I'm glad your employers have so good an influence on you. Well?"

"I'se seen Misser Gregory on de roof," said Jeff, drawing on his imagination, as he had only
heard about that event through Zibbie's highly colored story, "where some other folks wouldn't
dar go, and now I'se see dat house dar, which I wouldn't see dar, wasn't it for Misser Gregory."

"Well, well," said Hunting, impatiently, "I've heard all about that. What else?"

"I'se seen Miss Annie roun' all day bloomin' and sweet as a rose, and I'se seen how she might
have been a crushed white lily," Jeff continued, solemnly, with a rhetorical wave of the hand.

There existed in Jeff the raw material of a colored preacher, only it was very crude and undeveloped.
But upon any important occasion he always grew rhetorical and figurative in his language.

"Come, come, Jeff, tell me something new."

"Well," said Jeff, "since I'se promised to tell you, and since I'se spent de ten dollars, and
hasn't got it to give you back again, I'se seen Misser Gregory las' Sunday evenin', a kneelin'
afore Miss Annie as if he was a sayin' his prayers to her, and I shouldn't wonder if she heard
'em (with a chuckle); anyhow she wasn't lofty and scornful, and Misser Gregory he's looked
kinder glorified ever since; afore that he looked glum, and Miss Annie, she's been kinder bendin'
toward him since dat evenin', like a rosebud wid de dew on it."

Hunting's face darkened with suppressed anger and jealousy. After a moment he said, "Is that all?"

"Dat's all."

"Well, Jeff, here's ten dollars more, and look sharper than ever now."

"'Scuse me, Misser Hunting. We'se squar' now. I'se done what I agreed, and now I'se gwine out
ob de business."

"Has Gregory engaged your services?" asked Hunting, quickly.

"No, sah, he hab not. I reckon Misser Gregory tink he doesn't need any help."

"Why won't you do as I wish, then?"

"Well, Mr. Hunting, it kinder makes me feel bad here," said Jeff, rubbing his hand indefinitely
over several physical organs. "I don't jes' believe Miss Annie would like it, and after seein'
Mr. Gregory under dat pesky ladder, I couldn't do nothin' dat he wouldn't like. If it hadn't
been for him I'd sorter felt as if I'd killed Miss Annie by leavin' dat doggoned ladder so
straight up, and I nebber could hab gone out in de dark agin all my life."

"Why, you old black fool," said Hunting, irritably, "don't you know I'm going to marry Miss
Annie? You'd better keep on the right side of me."

"Which is de right side?" Jeff could not forbear saying, with a suppressed chuckle.

"Come, sir, no impudence. You won't serve me any more then?"

"Oh yes, Misser Hunting. I'se black yer boots, make de fire, harness de hoss, do anything dat
won't hurt in here," with a gesture that seemed to indicate the pit of his stomach. "Anything
more, please 'scuse me."

"You will not speak of what has passed between us?"

"I'se given my word," said Jeff, drawing himself up, "de word ob one dat belongs to de Waltons."

Hunting turned on his heel and strode away. Annie had given one aspect to the scene on that
Sabbath evening, and Jeff had innocently given another. Hunting was not loyal enough even to
such a woman as Annie to believe her implicitly. But it is the curse of conscious deceit to
breed suspicion. Only the true can have absolute faith in the truth of others. Moreover, Hunting,
in his hidden selfishness and worldliness could not understand Annie's ardent effort to save
a fellow-creature from sin. Skilled in the subtle impulses of the heart, he believed that Annie,
unconsciously even to herself, was drifting toward the man he hated all the more because he
had wronged him, while the danger of his presence made him almost vindictive. Yet he realized
the necessity of disguising his feelings, for if Annie discovered them he might well dread
the consequence. But the idea of watching alone with Gregory was revolting. It suggested dark
thoughts which he tried to put from him in horror, for he was far from being a hardened villain.
He was only a man who had gradually formed the habit of acting from expedience and self-interest,
instead of principle. Such a rule of life often places us where expedience and self-interest
require deeds that are black indeed.

But he was saved from the ordeal of spending hours alone with a man who even in his helplessness
might injure him beyond remedy, for on the following morning Annie again sought Gregory's room
bent on securing reconciliation at once. She felt that she could endure this estrangement no
longer.

The young man employed as watcher was out at the time.

Gregory was gazing at the fire with the same look of listless apathy. A deep flush overspread
his deathly pale face as she came and sat down beside him, but he did not turn from her.

"Mr. Gregory," she said, very gently, "it seems that I can do nothing but receive favors from
you, and I've come now to ask a great one."

He suspected something concerning Hunting, and his face darkened forbiddingly. Though Annie
noted this, she would not be denied.

"Do you think," she said, earnestly, "that, after your sacrifice for me, I can ever cease to
be your friend in the truest and strongest sense?"

"Miss Walton," he said, calmly, "I've made no sacrifice for you. The thought of that episode
in the orchard is my one comfort while lying here, and will be through what is left of life.
But please do not speak of it, for it will become a pain to me if I see the obligation is a
burden to you."

"It is not," she said, eagerly. "I'm glad to owe my life to you. But do you think I can go
on my way and forget you?"

"It's the very best you can do, Miss Walton."

"But I tell you it's impossible. Thank God, it's not my nature to do it!"

He turned toward her with a wistful, searching look.

"We must carry out our old agreement," continued Annie. "We must be close and lasting friends.
You should not blame me for an attachment formed years ago."

"I do not blame you."

"Then you should not punish me so severely. You first make your friendship needful to me, and
then you deny it."

"I am your friend, and more."

"How can we enjoy a frank and happy friendship through coming years, after--after--you feel
differently from what you do now, when you will not even hear the name of him who will one
day be my second self?"

Again his face darkened; but she continued rapidly, "Mr. Hunting is deeply grateful to you,
and would like to express his feelings in person. He wishes to bury the past--"

"He will, with me, soon," interrupted Gregory, gloomily.

"No; please do not speak in that way," she pleaded. "He wishes to make what little return he
can, and offers to watch with you night and day."

He turned upon her almost fiercely, and said, "Are you too in league with my evil destiny,
in that you continually persecute me with that man? Miss Walton, I half doubt whether you know
what love means, or you would not make such a proposition. Let me at least die quietly. With
the memory of the past and the knowledge of the present, his presence in my room would be death
by torture. Pardon me, but let us end this matter once for all. We have both been unfortunate,
you in inspiring a love that you cannot return; I in permitting my heart to go from me, beyond
recall, before learning that my passion would be hopeless. I do not see that either of us has
been to blame, you certainly not in the slightest degree. But, however vain, my love is an
actual fact, and I cannot act as if it were not. As well might a man with a mortal wound smile
and say it's but a scratch. I cannot change my mind merely in view of expedience and invest
such feelings in another way. The fact of my love is now a past disaster, and I must bear the
consequences with such fortitude as I can. But what you ask would drive me mad. If I should
live, possibly in the future I might meet you often without the torturing regret I now feel.
But to make a smiling member of Charles Hunting's friendly circle would require on my part
the baldest hypocrisy; and I can't do it, and won't try. If that man comes into my room, I
will crawl out if I can."

He was trembling with excitement, his face flushed and feverish, and his eyes unnaturally bright.

"And you banish me too," said Annie, hurt and alarmed at the same time.

"Yes, yes; forgive me for saying so. Yes; till I'm stronger. See how I've spoken to you. I've
no self-control."

She was most reluctant to go, and stood a moment, hesitating. Timidly she ventured to quote
the line:

"Earth has no sorrows that Heaven cannot cure."

"That's a comforting fact for those who are going there," he said, coldly.

With a sudden burst of passionate grief she stooped and kissed his hand, then fled to her own
room, and cried as if her heart would break. It seemed as if he were lost to her and heaven,
and yet he was capable of being so noble and good!

Miss Eulie entered Gregory's room soon after, and was alarmed at his feverish and excited appearance.
She decided that Annie's visits must cease for the present. However, she took no apparent notice
of his disturbed condition, but immediately gave a remedy to ward off fever, and a strong opiate,
which, with the reaction and his weakness, caused him to sink back into something like his
old lethargy.

Hunting had spent the morning with Mr. Walton, preparing his mind for the plan of immediate
marriage. He found the failing man not averse to the project, as his love ought to secure to
Annie every help and solace possible.

After Annie had removed from her face, to the best of her ability, every trace of her emotion,
she came down and took her place at her father's side, intending to leave it only when compelled
to. Hunting knew of her mission to Gregory, and looked at her inquiringly, but she sadly shook
her head. He tried to look hurt, but only succeeded in looking angry. He soon controlled himself,
however, though he noted with deep uneasiness Annie's sad face and red eyes. Mr. Walton fortunately
was dozing and needed no explanation.

That night he was much worse, and had some very serious symptoms. Annie did not leave his side.
But toward morning he rallied and fell into a quiet sleep. Then she took a little rest.

The next day she was told that there was a gentleman in the parlor who wished to see her. The
stranger proved to be one of Gregory's partners, Mr. Seymour, who courteously said, "I should
have been here before, but the senior partner, Mr. Burnett, is unable to attend to business
at present, and I came away the first moment I could leave. I felt sure also that everything
would be done that could be. I hope the injury is not so serious as was first supposed."

"You may rest assured that we have tried to do everything," said Annie, gravely, "but Mr. Gregory
is in a very precarious condition. You would like to see him, I suppose."

"If I can with safety to him."

"I think a brief interview may do him good. He needs rallying."

At that moment Hunting, not knowing who was present, entered. Both gentleman started, but Mr.
Seymour gave no sign of recognition, nor did Hunting, though he could not at first hide a certain
degree of nervous agitation. Annie presented him. Mr. Seymour bowed stiffly, and said, rather
curtly, "We have met before," and then gave him no further attention, but continuing to address
Annie, said, "I well understand that Mr. Gregory needs rallying. That has been just his need
for the last few months, during which time his health has been steadily failing. I was in hopes
he would come back--" and then he stopped, quite puzzled for a moment by the sudden change
in Annie's manner, which had become freezingly cold toward him, while there was a look of honest
indignation upon her face.

"Excuse me, sir," she said, briefly. "I will send you my aunt, who will attend to your wishes;"
and she left Mr. Seymour standing in the middle of the room, both confused and annoyed; but
he at once surmised that it was on account of his manner toward Hunting, who sat down with
a paper at the further side of the room, as if he were alone.

But when, a moment later, Miss Eulie entered with her placid, unruffled face, Mr. Seymour could
not be otherwise than perfectly polite, and after a few words, followed her to Gregory's room.

Annie at once came to Hunting and asked, "Why did that man act so?"

"Why, don't you see?" answered he, hastily. "Mr. Seymour is Mr. Gregory's partner. They all
have the same reason for feeling hostile toward me, though perhaps Gregory has special reasons,"
he added, with a searching look.

Annie blushed deeply at this allusion, but said with emphasis, "No man shall treat you in that
way in my presence and still receive courtesy from me."

But his jealous spirit had noticed her quick blush more than her generous resentment of the
insult she supposed offered him. Therefore he said, "Mr. Gregory would treat me worse if he
got a chance."

"But his case is different from any one's else," she said, with another quick flush.

"Evidently so in your estimation."

Then for the first time she noted his jealousy, and it hurt her sorely. She took a step nearer
and looked very gravely into his face for a moment without speaking, and then said, with that
calmness which is more effective than passion, "Charles, take care. I'm one that will be trusted.
Though it seems a light matter to you that he has saved my life, at perhaps the cost of his
own, it does not to me."

The cool and usually cautious man had for once lost his poise, and he said, with sudden irritation,
"I hear that and nothing else. What else could he have done? If you had stayed at your father's
side you would have been safe. He took you out to walk, and any man would have risked his life
to bring you back safely."

He now saw in Annie a spirit he could never control as he managed people in Wall Street, for,
with a sudden flash in her eyes, she said, hotly, "I do not reason thus coldly about those
to whom I owe so much," and abruptly left him.

In bitterness of fear and self-reproach he at once realized his blunder. He followed her, but
she was with her father, and he could not speak there. He looked imploringly at her, but could
not catch her eye, for she was deeply incensed. Had she not heard him she would not have believed
that he could be so ungenerous.

He wrote on a scrap of paper, "Annie, forgive me. I humbly ask your pardon. I'm not myself
to-day, and that man's conduct, which you so nobly resented in my behalf, vexed me to that
degree that I acted like a fool. I am not worthy of you, but you will perceive that my folly
arises from my excess of love for you. I'm going for a walk. Please greet me with pardon in
your face on my return."

Impulsive, loving, warm-hearted Annie could not resist such an appeal. She at once relented,
and began to make a thousand better excuses for her lover than he could for himself. But she
had taught him a lesson, and proved that she was not a weak, willowy creature that would cling
to him no matter what he was or did. He saw that he must seem to be worthy of her.

Gregory greeted his partner with a momentary glow of gratitude that he had come so far to see
him, and began talking about his business.

"Not a word of that, old fellow," said Mr. Seymour. "Your business is to get well. It seems
to me that you have everything here for comfort --good medical attendance, eh?"

"Yes; if anything, too much is done for me."

"I don't understand just how it happened."

Gregory told him briefly.

"By Jove! this Miss Walton ought to be very grateful to you."

"She is too grateful."

"I don't know about that. I met that infernal Hunting downstairs. Of course I couldn't treat
him with politeness, and do you know the little lady spunked up about it to that degree that
she almost turned her back upon me and left the room."

"Of course," said Gregory, coolly, shielding his secret by a desperate effort; "they are engaged."

"Oh, I understand now. Well, I rather like her spirit. Does she know how accomplished her lover
is in Wall Street?"

"No. Hunting is a distant relative of the family. They believe him to be a gentleman, and would
not listen to a word against him."

"But they ought to know. He lied like a scoundrel to us, and in your trying all summer to make
up the losses, he has nearly been the death of you. I wouldn't let my daughter marry him though
he had enough money to break the Street: and it is a pity that a fine girl, as this Miss Walton
seems, should throw herself away on him."

"Well, Seymour, that's not our affair," said Gregory, pale and faint from his effort at self-control.
"They would listen to nothing."

"Well, good-by, old fellow. I see it won't do to talk with you any more. Get well as soon as
you can, for we want you woefully in town. Get well, and carry off this Miss Walton yourself.
It would be a neat way of turning the tables on Hunting."

"Don't set your heart on seeing me at the office again," said Gregory, feelingly. "I have a
presentiment that I shan't pull through this, and I don't much care. Give my kindest regards
to Mr. Burnett, and tell him I shall think of him to the last as among my best friends."

Seymour made a few hearty remonstrances against such a state of mind, and took his departure
with many misgivings. Gregory relapsed into his old dreary apathy. Life had so many certain
ills that upon the whole he felt he would rather die. But he was too stunned and weak to think
much, save when Annie came to him. Her presence was always life, but now it was a sharp revival
of the consciousness of his loss. Left to himself, his mind sank down into a sort of painless
lethargy, from which he did not wish to be aroused.

Mr. Walton passed a quieter night, but was clearly failing fast. He sent frequent messages
of love and sympathy to Gregory, and had an abiding faith that all would be well with him in
the next life, if not in this. Annie had not the heart to undeceive him. When he thought it
a little strange that Hunting was not with Gregory, Annie explained by saying that the doctor
insisted on perfect quiet of mind, and the presence of Hunting might unpleasantly revive old
memories, and so unduly excite him.

After the physician saw his patients the following morning, he looked grave and dissatisfied.
Annie followed him to the door, and said, "Doctor, I don't like the expression of your face."

"Well, Miss Annie," said the doctor, discontentedly, "I've a difficult task on my hands, in
trying to cure two patients that make no effort to live. Your father seems homesick for heaven,
and mere drugs can't rouse Mr. Gregory out of his morbid, gloomy apathy. I could get him ashore
if he would strike out for himself, but he just floats down stream like driftwood. But really
I'm doing all that can be done, I think."

"I believe you are," she said, sadly. "Good-by."

"O merciful God!" she exclaimed when alone. "What shall I do--what shall I do to save him?
Father's going to heaven and mother. Where is he going?"

CHAPTER XXX

KEPT FROM THE EVIL

With the light of the following day Annie gave up all hope of her father's recovery. He was
sinking fast, and conscious himself that death was near. But his end was like the coming into
harbor of a stately ship after a long, successful voyage. He looked death in the face with
that calmness and dignity, that serene certainty that it was a change for the better, which
Christian faith alone can inspire. His only solicitude was for those he was leaving, and yet
he had no deep anxiety, for his strong faith committed them trustingly to God.

Annie tried to feel resigned, since it was God's will. But the tie that bound her to him was
so tender, so interwoven with every fibre of her heart, that she shrunk with inexpressible
pain from its sundering. She knew that she was not losing her father, that the worst before
them was but a brief separation, but how could she, who had lived so many happy years at his
side, endure even this? It seemed as if she could not let him go, and in the strong, passionate
yearning of her heart, she was almost ready to leave youth, friends, lover, and all, to go
with him.

She was one who lived in her affections rather than her surroundings. The latter would matter
little to her could she keep her heart- treasures. It would have touched the coldest to see
how she clung to him toward the last. All else was forgotten, even Gregory, who might be dying
also. The instinct of nature was strong, and her father was first.

Moreover, the relation between this parent and child was peculiarly close, for they were not
only in perfect sympathy in views, character, and faith, but Annie had stepped to the side
of the widowed man years before and sought successfully to fill the place of one who had reached
home before him. Though so young, she had been his companion and daily friend, interesting
herself in that which interested him, and thus he had been saved from that terrible loneliness
which often breaks the heart even in the midst of a household. It was therefore with a love
beyond words that his eyes rested most of the time on her and followed her every movement.

She also had a vague and peculiar dread in looking forward to her bereavement. An anticipating
sense of isolation and loneliness chilled her heart.

Though she would not openly admit it to herself, Hunting had disappointed her since his return.
She did not get from him the support and Christian sympathy she expected. She tried to excuse
him, and charged herself with being too exacting, and yet the sense of something wanting pained
her. She had hoped that in these dark days he would be serene and strong, and yet abounding
in the tenderest sympathy. She had expected words of faith and consolation that would have
sustained her spirit, fainting under a double and peculiar sorrow. She had felt sure that before
this his just gratitude, like a torrent, would have overwhelmed and destroyed Gregory's enmity.
But all had turned out so differently! Instead of being a help, he had almost added to her
burden by his hostile feeling toward her preserver, which he had not been able wholly to disguise.
Such a feeling on his part seemed both unnatural and wrong. He professed himself ready to do
anything she wished for Gregory, but it was in a half-hearted way, to oblige her, and not for
the sake of the injured man. When she went to him for Christian consolation, his words, though
well-chosen, lacked heartiness and the satisfying power of truth.

Why this was so can be well understood. Hunting could not give what he did not possess. Of
necessity there would be a hollow ring when he spoke of that which he did not understand or
feel. During his brief visits, and in his carefully written letters, he could appear all she
wished. He could honestly show his sincere love for her, and there was no special opportunity
to show anything else. In her vivid, loving imagination she supplied all else, and she believed
that when they were more together, or in affliction, he would reveal more distinctly his deeper
and religious nature, for such a nature he professed to have; and his letters, which could
be written deliberately, abounded in Christian sentiment. Self-deceived, he meant to be honestly
religious as soon as he could afford to give up his questionable speculations.

But when a man least expects it the test and strain will come, that clearly manifest the character
of his moral stamina. It had now come to Hunting, and though he strove with all the force and
adroitness of a resolute will and though he was a practiced dissembler, he was not equal to
the searching demands of those trying days, and steadily lost ground. The only thing that kept
him up was his sincere love for Annie. That was so apparent and honest that, loving him herself,
she was able to forgive the rest. But it formed no small part of her sorrow at that dark time,
that she must lower her lofty ideal of her lover. Hunting and Gregory seemed nearer together
morally than she could have believed possible. Thus she already had the dread that she would
not be able to "look up" to Hunting as she had expected, and that it would be her mission to
deepen and develop his character instead of "leaning" upon it.

It seemed strange to her as she thought of it, during her long hours of watching, that after
all she would have to do for Hunting something like what poor Gregory had asked her to do for
him. She prayerfully purposed to do it, for the idea of being disloyal to her engagement never
entered her mind.

"Unless men have a Christian home, in which their religious life can be daily strengthened
and fostered, they cannot be what they ought," she said to herself. "In continual contact with
the world, with nothing to counteract, it's not strange that they act and feel as they do."

Thus she was more disposed to feel sorry for both Hunting and Gregory than to blame them. And
yet she looked upon the two men very differently. She regarded Hunting as a true Christian
who simply needed warming and quickening into positive life, while she thought of Gregory with
only fear and trembling. Her hope for the latter was in the prayers stored up in his behalf.

But now upon this day that would ever be so painfully memorable she had thoughts only for her
father, and nothing could tempt her from his side.

Hunting also saw that the crisis was approaching, and made but a formal semblance of a breakfast.
He then entered the sick-room, and was thinking how best to broach the subject of an immediate
marriage, when a thumping of crutches was heard in the hall.

Miss Eulie entered and said that Daddy Tuggar had managed to hobble over, and had set his heart
upon seeing his old friend.

"Certainly," said Mr. Walton; "he shall come in at once."

"Caution him to stay but a few minutes," warned Annie.

Miss Eulie helped the old man in, and he sat down by Mr. Walton's side, with a world of trouble
on his quaint, wrinkled face.

But he said abruptly, as if he expected an affirmative answer, "Yer gettin' better this mornin'--yer
on the mend?"

"Yes, my kind old neighbor," said Mr. Walton, feebly. "I shall soon be well. It was kind of
you, in your crippled state, to come over to see me."

"Well, now," said Mr. Tuggar, greatly relieved, "there is use of prayin'. I ain't much of a
hand at it, and didn't know how the Lord would take it from me; but when I heard you was sick,
I began to feel like prayin', and when I heard you was gettin' wuss, I couldn't help prayin'.
When I heard how that city chap as saved the house--(what an old fool I was to cuss him when
he first came! The Lord knew what He was doin' when He brought him here)--when I heard how
he kept the ladder from falling on Miss Annie, I prayed right out loud. My wife, she thought
I was gettin' crazy. But I didn't care what anybody thought. I've been prayin' all night, and
it seemed as if the Lord must hear me, and I kinder felt it in my bones that He had. So I expected
to hear you say you was goin' to get well; and Mr. Gregory, he's better too--ain't he?"

There was no immediate answer. Neither Miss Eulie nor Annie seemed to know how to reply to
the old man at first. But Mr. Walton reached slowly out and took his neighbor's hand, saying,
"Your prayers will be answered, my friend. Honest prayer to God always is. I shall be well
soon, never to be old, feeble, and sick any more. I'm going where there's 'no more pain.' Perhaps
I've seen my last night, for there is 'no night there.'"

"But the Lord knows I didn't mean nothin' of that kind. We need you here, and He orter know
it. What's the use of prayin' if you get just the opposite of what you pray for?"

"Suppose the opposite is best? I'm an old man--a shock of corn fully ripe. I'm ready to be
gathered."

"Are yer goin' to die?" asked the old man, in an awed whisper.

"No, Mr. Tuggar; I've been growing old and feeble, I've been dying for a long time. Now I'm
going to live--to be strong and well, forever and ever. So don't grieve, but rather rejoice
with me."

The old man sat musing a moment, and then said softly to himself, "This is what the Scripter
means when it tells about the 'death of the righteous.'"

"Yes," continued Mr. Walton, though more feebly; "and the Scripture is true. The dear Lord
doesn't desert His people. He who has been my friend and helper so many years now tells me
that my sins, which are many, are all forgiven. It seems that I have also heard Him say, 'To-
day thou shalt be with me in Paradise.'"

Tears gathered in Daddy Tuggar's eyes, and he said, brokenly, "The Lord knows--I've allers
been a sort--of well-meanin' man--but I couldn't talk that way--if I was where you be."

"Mr. Tuggar," said Mr. Walton, "I'm too weak to say much more, but I want to ask you one question.
You have read the Bible. Whom did the Lord Jesus come to save?"

"Sinners," was the prompt response.

"Are you one?"

"What else be I?"

"Then, old neighbor, you are safe, if you will just receive Him as your Saviour. If you were
sure you were good enough and didn't need any Saviour, I should despair of you. But according
to the Bible you are just such as He came after. If you feel that you are a sinner, all you
have to do is to trust Him and do the best you can."

"Is that all you did?"

"All. I couldn't do anything more. And now, good-by. Remember my last words--Whom did Jesus
come to save?"

"Why, He come to save me," burst out the old man, rising up. "What a cussed old fool I was,
not to see it afore! I was allers thinkin' He came after the good folks, and I felt that no
matter how I tried I could not be good enough. Good-by, John Walton. If they are goin' to let
sinners into heaven who are willin' to come any way the Lord will let 'em come, I'll be yer
neighbor again 'fore long;" and with his withered, bronzed visage working with an emotion that
he did not seek to control, he wrung the dying man's hand, and hobbled out.

But he pleaded with Miss Eulie to let him stay. "I want to see it out," he said, "for if grim
Death ain't goin' to get one square knock- down now, then he never had it, I want to see the
victory. 'Pears to me that when the gates open the glory will shine out upon us all."

So she installed him in Mr. Walton's arm-chair by the parlor fire, and made him thoroughly at home.

"I'm a waitin' by the side of the river," he said. "I wish I could go over with him. 'Pears
I'd feel sure they wouldn't turn me back then."

"Jesus will go over the river with you," she said, gently, "and then they can't turn you back."

"I hope so, I hope so," said this old, child-like man, "for I'm an awful sinner."

After this interview, which greatly fatigued him, Mr. Walton dozed for an hour, and then brightened
up so decidedly that Annie had faint hopes that he was better.

The children were brought to him, and he kissed and fondled them very tenderly. Then, in a
way that would make a deep impression on their childish natures, he told them how he was going
to see their father and mother, and would tell what good children they had been, and how they
always meant to be good, and how all would be waiting for them in heaven.

Thus the little ones received no grim and terrible impressions at that death-bed, but rather
memories and hopes that in all their future would hold them back, like angel hands, from evil.

Hunting now believed that the time for him to act had come. He had told Jeff to have the horse
and buggy ready so that he might send for the old pastor at once.

He came to Annie's side, and taking her hand and her father's, thus seeming a link between
them, said very gently, very tenderly, "Annie, your father has told me that it would be a great
consolation to him to leave me in charge of you all as his son, legally and in the eyes of
the world, as I feel I am in reality. I could then do everything for you, relieve you of every
care, and protect with unquestionable right all the interests of the household. Again, the
marriage tie, like that of our betrothal, consummated here at his side, would ever seem to
us peculiarly tender and sacred. It will almost literally be a marriage made in heaven. I hope
you will feel that you can grant this, your father's last wish."

Annie felt a sudden and strong repugnance to the plan. In that hour of agonized parting she
did not wish to think of marriage, even to one she loved. Her thoughts immediately recurred
to Gregory, and she felt that such an act might, in his weak state, cause disastrous results.
And yet if it were her father's wish--his last wish--how could she refuse him--how could she
refuse him anything? The marriage day would eventually come. If by making this the day she
could once more show her filial love and add to his dying peace, did she not owe him her first
duty? The dying are omnipotent with us. Who can refuse their last requests?

She looked inquiringly, but with tear-blinded eyes, at her father.

"Yes, Annie," he said, answering her look, "it would be a great consolation to me, because
I can see how it will be of much advantage to you--more than you can now understand. It will
enable Charles to step in at once as head of the household, and so you will be relieved of
many perplexities and details of business which would be very trying to you, as you will feel.
I want to spare you and sister all this, and you have no idea how much it will save your feelings,
and add to your comfort, to have one like Charles act for you with such power as he would have
as your husband. After seeing you all thus provided for, it seems to me that I could depart
in perfect peace."

"Dear father," said Annie, tenderly, "how can I deny you anything! This seems to me no time
for marriage, but, since you wish it, your will shall be mine. It must be right or you would
not ask it; and yet--" She did not finish the sentence, but buried her face in her hands, weeping.

"That's my noble Annie," Hunting exclaimed, with a glad exultation in his voice that he could
not disguise; and, hastening out, he told Jeff to bring the minister as speedily as possible.

Miss Eulie was called, and acquiesced in her brother's opinion, and hovered around Annie in
a tender flutter of maternal love.

Hunting now felt that he was master of destiny, and in his heart bade defiance to Gregory and
all his own fears. His elation and self- applause were great, for had he not snatched the prize
out of the hand of death itself, and made events that would have awed and disheartened other
men combine for his good? He had schemed, planned, and overreached them all, though, in this
case, for their interests as well as his own, he believed. While he would naturally wish the
marriage to take place as soon as possible, his chief reason was to forestall any revelations
which might come through Gregory; and this motive made his whole course, though apparently
dictated by the purest feeling, a crafty trick. Yet such was the complex nature of the man
that he honestly meant to fulfil all Mr. Walton's expectations, and become Annie's loving shield
from every care and trial, and a faithful guardian of the household. Nay, more, as soon as
he was securely intrenched, with all his coveted possessions, he purposed that Annie should
help him to be a true, good man--a Christian in reality.

Well may the purest and strongest pray to be kept from the evil of the world. It lurks where
least suspected, and can plot its wrongs in the chamber of death, and on the threshold of heaven.
Annie and her father might at least suppose themselves safe now. Were they so, with God's minister
on his way to join truth with untruth--a pure-hearted maiden to a man from whom she would shrink
the moment she came to know him? Not on the human side. They were safe only as God kept them.
If Annie Walton had found herself married to a swindler, hers would have been a life-long martyrdom.
But unconsciously she drew momentarily nearer the edge of the precipice. Time was passing,
and their venerable pastor would soon be present. Annie had welcomed him every day previously,
as he came to take sweet counsel with her father rather than prepare him for death, but now
she had a strange, secret dread of his coming.

Her father suddenly put his hand to his heart.

"Have you pain there?" asked Annie.

"It's gone," he replied, after a moment. "They will soon be all past, Annie dear. How does
Mr. Gregory seem now?" he asked of Miss Eulie.

"Greatly depressed, I'm sorry to say," she answered. "He knows that you are no better, and
it seems to distress him very much."

"God bless him for saving my darling's life!" he said, fervently; "and He will bless him. I
have a feeling that he will see brighter and better days. I can send him almost a father's
love and blessing, for he now seems like a son to me. Say to him that I shall tell his father
of his noble deeds. Be a sister to him, Annie. Carry on the good work you have so wisely begun.
May the friendship of the parents descend to the children. And you, Charles, my son, will surely
feel toward him as a brother, whatever may have been the differences of the past."

Innocent but deeply embarrassing words to both Hunting and Annie.

Again Mr. Walton put his hand to his heart.

Hunting left the room, for it was surely time for Jeff to return. With a gleam of exultant
joy he saw him driving toward the house with the white-haired minister at his side. He returned
softly to the sick- room.

Mr. Walton had just taken Annie's hands, and after a look of unutterable fondness, said, "Before
I give you to another--while you are still my own little girl--let me thank you for having
been all and more than a father could ask. How good God was to give me such a comfort in your
mother's place!"

"Dear father!" was all that Annie could say.

Even then the minister was entering the house.

"I bless thee, my child," the father continued; then turning his eyes heavenward he reverently
closed them in prayer, saying, "and God bless thee also, and keep thee from every evil."

God answered him.

His grasp on Annie's hand relaxed; without even a sigh he passed away.

Annie started up with a look of alarm, and saw the same expression on the faces of her aunt
and Hunting. They spoke to him; he did not answer. Hunting felt his pulse. Its throb had ceased
forever. The chill of a great dread turned his own face like that of the dead.

Miss Eulie put her hand on her brother's heart. It was at rest. Annie stood motionless with
dilating eyes watching them. But when her aunt came toward her with streaming eyes she realized
the truth and fell fainting to the floor.

Just then the old minister crossed the threshold, but Hunting said to him, almost savagely,
"You are too late."

CHAPTER XXXI

"LIVE! LIVE!"--ANNIE'S APPEAL

Annie's swoon was so prolonged that both her aunt and Hunting were alarmed. It was the reaction
from the deep and peculiar excitement of the last few days. Every power of mind and body had
been under the severest strain, and nature now gave way.

The doctor, when he came to make his morning call, was most welcome. He said there was nothing
alarming about Miss Walton's symptoms, but added very decisively that she would need rest and
quiet of mind for a long time in order to regain her former tone and health.

When Annie revived he gave something that would tend to quiet her nervous system and produce sleep.

"I now understand Mr. Walton's case," he said to Miss Eulie. "I could not see why his severe
cold, which he had apparently cured, should result as it did. But now it's plain that it was
complicated with heart difficulties."

His visit to Gregory was not at all satisfactory, for his patient's depression was so great
that he was sinking under it. Mr. Walton's death, leaving Annie defenceless, as it were, in
the hands of a man like Hunting, seemed another of the dark and cruel mysteries which to him
made up human life. The death that had given Daddy Tuggar such an impulse toward faith and
hope only led him to say with intense bitterness, "God has forgotten His world, and the devil
rules it."

"Mr. Gregory," said the physician, gravely, "do you know that you are about the same as taking
your own life? All the doctors in the world cannot help you unless you try to live. Drugs cannot
remove your apathy and morbid depression."

"Very well, doctor," he replied; "do not trouble yourself to come any more. I absolve you from
all blame."

"But I cannot absolve myself. Besides, it's not manly to give up in this style."

"I make no pretence of being manly or anything else. I am just what you see. Can a broken reed
stand up like a sturdy oak? Can such a thing as I reverse fate? Thank you, doctor, for all
you have done, but waste no more time upon me. I knew, weeks ago, that the end was near, and
I would like to die in the old place."

The doctor looked at him a moment in deep perplexity, and then silently left the room.

"Internal injuries that I can't get at," he muttered, as he drove away.

Miss Eulie came to Gregory's side, and laying her hand gently on his brow said, "You are mistaken,
my young friend. You are going to live."

"Why do you think so?" he asked.

"The dying often have almost prophetic vision;" and she told him all that Mr. Walton had said,
though nothing of the contemplated marriage. She dwelt with special emphasis on the facts that
he had told Annie to be a sister to Gregory and had gone to heaven with the assurance to his
old friend that his son would join him there.

Gregory was strongly moved, and turning his face upon the pillow, gave way to a passion of
tears; but they were despairing, bitter, regretful tears. He soon seemed ashamed of them, and
when he again turned his face toward Miss Eulie, it had a hard, stony look.

Almost with sternness he said, "If the dying have supernatural insight, why could not Mr. Walton
see what kind of a man Hunting is? Please leave me now. I know how kind and well-meant your
words are, but they are mockery to me;" and he turned his face to the wall.

Miss Eulie sighed very deeply, but felt that his case was beyond her skill.

Daddy Tuggar was at first grievously disappointed. He had wrought himself up into the hope
of a celestial scene, and the abrupt and quiet termination of Mr. Walton's life seemed inadequate
to the occasion. But Miss Eulie comforted him by saying that "the Christian walked by faith,
and not by sight--that God knew what was best, better than we, His little children.

"Death had not even the power to cause him a moment's pain," she said. "God gave him a sweet
surprise, by letting him through the gates before he was aware."

Thus she led the strange old man to think it was for the best after all. The Rev. Mr. Ames,
who had come on such a different mission, also tried to make clearer what Mr. Walton had said
to him. But Daddy Tuggar would not permit his mind to wander a moment from the simple truth,
which he kept saying over and over to himself, "I'm an awful sinner, and the good Lord come
after just such."

Another thing that greatly perplexed the old man was that Mr. Walton had not been permitted
to live long enough to see his daughter married. As an old neighbor, and because of his strong
attachment to Annie, he had been invited to be present.

"'Pears to me that the Lord might have spared him a few minutes longer," he said.

"It appears to you so," replied Mr. Ames, "but the Lord knows why he did not."

"Well, parson," said Daddy Tuggar, "I thank you very kindly for what you have said, but John
Walton has done the business for me. I'm just goin' to trust--I'm just goin' to let myself
go limber and fall right down on the Lord Jesus' word. I don't believe it will break with me.
Anyhow, it's all I can do, and John Walton told me to do it and I allers found he was about
right." And thus late in the twilight of life the old man took his pilgrim's staff and started
homeward.

As soon as Hunting recovered from his bitter disappointment and almost superstitious alarm
at the sudden thwarting of his purpose, his wily and scheming mind fell to work on a new combination.
If he still could induce Annie to be married almost immediately, as he greatly hoped, all would
be well. If not, then he would assume that they were the same as married, and at once take
his place so far as possible at the head of the household, in accordance with Mr. Walton's
wish. On one hand, by tender care and thoughtfulness for them all, he would place Annie under
the deepest obligation; on the other, he would gain, to the extent he could, control of her
affairs and property. In the latter purpose Mr. Walton had greatly aided by naming him one
of the executors of his will; and only Miss Eulie, the sister-in-law, was united with him as
executrix. Thus he would substantially have his own way. Indeed, Mr. Walton, in his perfect
trust, meant that he should.

Having seen Annie quietly sleeping, he started for New York to make arrangements for the funeral,
and look after some personal matters that had already been neglected too long.

His feelings on the journey were not enviable. He had enough faith to fear God, but not to
trust and obey. The thought recurred with disheartening frequency, "If God is against this,
He will thwart me every time."

The day had closed in thick darkness and a storm before Annie awoke from the deep sleep which
the sedative had prolonged. Though weak and languid, she insisted on getting up. Her aunt almost
forced her to take a little supper, and then she went instinctively and naturally to that room
which had always been a place of refuge, but which now was the chamber of death.

She turned up the light that she might look at the dear, dear face. How calm and noble it was
in its deep repose! It did not suggest death--only peaceful sleep.

With a passionate burst of sorrow she moaned, "O father, let me sleep beside you, and be at rest!"

Then she took his cold hand, and sat down mechanically to watch, as in the days and nights
just passed. But as she became composed and thought grew busy, the deep peace of the sleeper
seemed imparted to her. In vivid imagination she followed him to the home and greetings that
he had so joyously anticipated. She saw him meet her mother and sister, and other loved ones
who had gone before. She saw him at his Saviour's feet, blessed and crowned. She heard the
wild storm raging without in the darkness, and then thought of his words "There is no night there."

"Dear father," she murmured, "I would not call you back if I could. God give me patience to
come to you in His own appointed way."

Then she dwelt upon the strange events of the day. How near she had come to being a wife! Why
had she not become one? That the marriage should have been so suddenly and unexpectedly prevented
on the very eve of consummation, caused some curious thoughts to flit through her mind.

"It is enough to know that it was God's will," she said; "and my future is still in His hands.
Poor Charles! it will be a disappointment to him; and yet what difference will a few weeks
or months make?"

Then her father's words, "Be a sister to Gregory," recurred to her, and she reproached herself
that she had so long forgotten him. "Father is safe home," she said, "and I am leaving him
to wander further and further away. Father told me to be a sister to him, and I will. When
he gets well and strong, if he ever does, he will feel very differently; and if he is to die
(which God forbid), what more sacred duty can I have than to plead with him and for him to
the last?"

Pressing a kiss on her father's silent lips, she went to fulfil one of their last requests.
She first asked her aunt if it would be prudent to visit Gregory. "I hardly know, Annie, what
to say," said Miss Eulie, in deep perplexity; and she told her what had occurred in relation
to Gregory, the doctor, and herself, omitting all reference to Hunting. "If he is not roused
out of his gloom and apathy, I fear he will die," concluded her aunt; "and if you can't rouse
him, I don't know who can."

Annie gave her a quick, questioning glance.

"Yes, Annie, I understand," she said, quietly. "He received his worst injury before the ladder
fell."

"O aunty, what shall I do?"

"Indeed, my dear child, I can hardly tell you. You are placed in a difficult and delicate position.
Perhaps your father's words were wisest, 'Be a sister to him.' At any rate, you have more power
with him than any one else, and you owe it to him to do all you can to save him."

"I am ready to do anything, aunty, for it seems as if I could never be happy if he should die
an unbeliever."

Annie stole noiselessly to Gregory's side, and motioned to the young man who was in charge
to withdraw to the next room. Gregory was still asleep. She sat down by him and was greatly
shocked to see how emaciated and pale he was. It seemed as if he had suffered from an illness
of weeks rather than days.

"He will die," she murmured, with all her old terror at the thought returning. "He will die,
and for me. Though innocent, I shall always feel that his blood is upon me;" and she buried
her face in her hands, and her whole frame shook with a passion of grief.

Her emotion awoke him, and he recognized with something like awe the bowed head at his side.

Her grief for her father, as he supposed it to be, seemed such a sacred thing! And yet he could
not bear to see her intense sorrow. His heart ached to comfort her, but what words of consolation
could such as he offer? Still, had she not come to him as if for comfort? This thought touched
him deeply, and he almost cursed his unbelieving soul that made him dumb at such a time. What
could he say but miserable commonplaces in regard to a bereavement like hers?

He did not say anything, but merely reached out his hand and gently stroked her bowed head.

Then she knew he was awake, and she took his hand and bowed her head upon it.

"Miss Walton," he said, in a husky voice, "it cuts me to the heart to see you grieve so. But,
alas! I do not know how to comfort you, and I can't say trite words which mean nothing. After
losing such a father as yours, what can any one say?"

She raised her head and said, impetuously, "It's not for father I am grieving. He is in heaven--he
is not lost to me. It's for you--you. You are breaking my heart."

"Miss Walton," he began, in much surprise, "I don't understand--"

"Why don't you understand?" she interrupted. "What do you think I am made of? Do you think
that you can lie here and die for me and I go serenely on? Do you not see that you would blight
the life you have saved?"

His apathy was gone now. But he was bewildered, so sudden and overpowering was her emotion.
He only found words to say, "Miss Walton, God knows I am yours, body and soul. What can I do?"

"Live! live!" she continued, with the same passionate earnestness. "I impose no conditions,
I ask nothing else. Only get well and strong again. If you will do this, I have such confidence
in your better nature, and the many prayers laid up for you, as to feel sure that all will
come out right. But if you will just lie here and die, you will imbitter my life. What did
the doctor tell you this morning? And yet I shall feel that I am partly the cause. O, Mr. Gregory,
you may think me foolish, but that strange little omen of the chestnut burr is in my mind so
often! I never was superstitious before, but it haunts me. Don't you remember how you stained
my hand with your blood? I can't get it out of my mind, and it has for me now a strange significance.
If I had to remember through coming years that you died for me all hopeless and unbelieving,
do you think so poorly of me as to imagine I could be happy? Why can't you be generous enough
to brighten the life you have saved? Among my father's last words he said I must be a sister
to you. How can I if you die? You would make this dear old place, that we both love, full of
terrible memories."

He was deeply moved, and after a moment said, "I did not know that you felt in this way. I
thought the best thing that I could do was to get out of the world and out of the way. I thought
I knew you, but I do not half understand your large, generous heart. For your sake I will try
and get well, nor will I impose any conditions whatever. But pardon me: I am going to ask one
thing, which you can grant or not as you choose. Please do not wrong me by thinking that I
have any personal end in view. I have given all that up as truly as if I were dead. I ask that
you do not speedily marry Charles Hunting--not till you are sure you know him."

"O dear!" exclaimed Annie, in real distress, "this dreadful quarrel! What trouble it makes
all around!"

"If your father," continued Gregory, with grave earnestness, "told you to be a sister to me,
then I have some right to act as a brother toward you. But as an honest man, with all my faults,
and with your interests nearest my heart, I entreat you to heed my request. Nay, more: I am
going to seem ungenerous, and refer for the first and last time to the obligation you are under
to me. By all the influence I gained by that act, I beg of you to hesitate before you marry
Charles Hunting. Believe me, I would not lay a straw in the way of your marrying a good man."

"Your words pain me more than I can tell you," said Annie, sadly. "I do not understand them.
Once they would have angered me. But, however mistaken you are, I cannot do injustice to your
motive.

"I do not see how your request can injure Charles," she continued, musingly. "I have no wish
to marry now for a long time--not till these sad scenes have faded somewhat from memory. If
you will only promise to live I will not marry him till you get strong and well--till you can
look upon this matter as a man--as a brother ought. But your hostility must not be unreasonable
or implacable. I know you do Mr. Hunting great injustice. And yet such is my solicitude for
you that I will do what seems to me almost disloyal. But I know that I owe a great deal to
you as well as Charles."

"What I ask is for your sake, not mine. I only used the obligation as a motive."

"Well," said Annie, "I yield; and surely a sister could do no more than I have done to-night."

"And I have simply done my duty," he answered, quietly. "And yet I thank you truly. You also
may see the time when you will thank me more than when I interposed my worthless person between
you and danger."

"Please never call yourself 'worthless' to me again. We never did agree, and I fear we shall
be gray before we do. But mark this: I am never going to give you up, whatever happens. I shall
obey dear father's last words from both duty and inclination. But let us end this painful conversation.
What have you eaten to-day?"

"I'm sure I don't know," he said.

"Will you eat something if I bring it?"

"I will do anything you ask."

"Now you give me hope," and she vanished, sending the regular watcher back to his post.

Gregory found it no difficult task to eat the dainty little supper she brought. She had broken
the malign spell he was under. As we have seen, his was a physical nature peculiarly subject
to mental conditions.

Soon after she said, in a low tone meant only for his ear, "Good- night, my poor suffering
brother. We all three shall understand each other better in God's good time."

"I hope so," he said, with a different meaning. "You have made me feel that I am not alone
and uncared for in the world, though I cannot call you sister yet. Good-night."

Annie went back to her father's side, and remained till her aunt almost forced her away.

It is not necessary to dwell on the events of the next few days. Such is our earthly lot, nearly
all can depict them by recalling their own sad experience: the hushed and solemn household,
even the children speaking low and treading softly, as if they might awake one whom only "the
last trump" could arouse.

John Walton's funeral was no formal pageant, but an occasion of sincere and general mourning.
Even those whose lives and characters were the opposite of his had the profoundest respect
for him, and the entire community united in honoring his memory.

Perhaps the most painful time of all to the stricken family was the evening after their slow,
dreary ride to the village cemetery. Then, as not before, they realized their loss.

Annie felt that her best solace would be in trying to cheer others. She had seen Gregory but
seldom and briefly since the interview last described, but had been greatly comforted by his
decided change for the better. He had kept his word. Indeed, it was only the leaden hand of
despondency that kept him down, and he rallied from the moment it was lifted. This evening
he was dressed and sitting by the fire. As she entered, in her deep mourning, his look was
so wistful and kind, so eloquent with sympathy, that instead of cheering him, as she had intended,
she sat down on a low ottoman, and burying her face in her hands, cried as if her heart would
break.

"Oh that I knew how to comfort you!" said Gregory, in the deepest distress. "I cannot bear
to see you suffer."

He rose with difficulty and came to her side, saying, "What can I do, Miss Walton? Would that
I could prevent you, at any cost to myself, from ever shedding another tear!"

His sympathy was so true and strong that it was a luxury for her to receive it; and she had
kept up so long that tears were nature's own relief.

At last he said timidly, hesitatingly, as if venturing on forbidden ground, "I think the Bible
says that in heaven all tears will be wiped away. Your father is surely there."

"Would that I were there with him!" she sobbed.

"Not yet, Annie, not yet," he said, gently. "Think how dark this world would be to more than
one if you were not in it."

"But will you never seek this dear home of rest?" she asked.

"The way of life is closed to me," he said, sadly.

"O, Mr. Gregory! Who is it that says, 'I am the way?'"

"But He says to me, 'Depart.'"

"And yet I, knowing all--I, a weak, sinful creature like yourself-- say, Come to Him. I am
better and kinder than He who died for us all! What strange, sad logic! Good-night, Walter.
You will not always so wrong your best Friend."

Gregory's despairing conviction that his day of mercy was past was hardly proof against her
words and manner, but he was in thick darkness and saw no way out.

Annie went down to her aunt and Hunting in the parlor. "Why will Mr. Gregory be so hard and
unbelieving?" she said, tearfully.

"If you knew him as well as I do you would understand," said Hunting, politicly, and then changed
the conversation.

He was consumed by a jealousy which he dared not show. Annie's manner toward him was all that
he could ask, and he felt sure of her now. But it was the future he dreaded, for he was satisfied
that Gregory had formed an attachment for Annie, whether she knew it or not, and, unless he
could secure her by marriage, the man he had wronged might find means of tearing off his mask.
With desperate earnestness he resolved to press his suit.

His course since Mr. Walton's death had been such as to win Annie's sincerest gratitude. When
action rather than moral support was required, he was strong, and no one could be more delicately
thoughtful of her feelings and kinder than he had been.

"Dear Charles," said Annie, when they were alone. "What should I have done without you in all
these dreary days! How you have saved me from all painful contact with the world!"

"And so I ever wish to shield you," said Hunting. "Will you not, as your father purposed, give
me the right at once?"

"You have the right, Charles. I ask no more than you have done and are doing. But do not urge
marriage now. I yielded then for father's sake, not my own. My heart is too sore and crushed
to think of it now. After all, what difference can a few months make to you? Be generous. Give
me a respite, and I will make you a better wife and a happier home."

"But it looks, Annie, as if you could not trust me," he said, gloomily.

"No, Charles," she said, gravely, "it looks rather as if you distrusted me; and you must learn
to trust me implicitly. Out of both love for you and justice to myself, I exercise my woman's
right of naming the day. In the meantime I give you my perfect confidence. No words of others--nothing
but your own acts can disturb it, and of this I have no fear."

He did not seek to disguise his deep disappointment. While she felt sorry for him, she remained
firm, and he saw that it would not be wise to urge her.

Annie would not carelessly give pain to any one, much less to those she loved. And yet her
mind was strong and well-balanced. She knew it was no great misfortune to Hunting to wait a
few months when her own feelings and the duty she owed another required it. "When Mr. Gregory
gets strong and well and back to business," she thought, "he will wonder at himself. I have
no right almost to destroy him now in his weakness by doing that which can be done better at
another time; and indeed, for my own sake, I should have required delay."

The next day Hunting was reluctantly compelled to go to the city. Somewhat to Annie's surprise,
Gregory made no effort to secure her society. In her frank, sisterly regard she was slow in
understanding that her presence caused regretful pain to him. But he seemed resolutely bent
upon getting well, and was gaining rapidly. He walked out a little while during the middle
of the day, and her eyes followed him wistfully as he moved slowly and feebly along the garden
walk. She saw, with quickly starting tears, that he went to the rustic seat by the brook where
they had spent that memorable Sunday afternoon, and that he stood in long, deep thought.

When he came back she offered to read to him.

"Not now--not yet," he said, sadly. "I know my own weakness, and would be true to my word."

"Why do you shun me?" she asked.

"May you never understand from experience," he said with a smile that was sadder than tears,
and passed on up to his room.

And yet, though he did not know it, his course was the best policy, for it awakened stronger
respect and sympathy on her part.

The next morning ushered in the first of the dreamy Indian-summer days, when Nature, as if
grieved over the havoc of the frost, would hide the dismantled trees and dead flowers by a
purple haze, and seek as do fading beauties to disguise the ravages of time by drawing over
her withered face a deceptive veil.

Gregory felt so much better that he thought he could venture to make a parting call on Daddy
Tuggar. He found the old man smoking on his porch, and his reception was as warm and demonstrative
as his first had been a month ago, though of a different nature. Gregory lighted a cigar and
sat down beside him.

"I'm wonderful glad to see you," said Mr. Tuggar. "To think that I should have cussed you when
it was the good Lord that brought you here!"

"Do you think so?" asked Gregory.

"Certain I do. Would that house be there? Wouldn't all our hearts be broke for Miss Annie if
it wasn't for you?"

Gregory felt that his heart was "broke" for her as it was, but he said, "It was my taking her
out to walk that caused her danger. So you wouldn't have lost her if I had not come."

"You didn't knowin'ly git her in danger, and you did knowin'ly git her out, and that's enough
for me," said the old man.

"Well, well, Mr. Tuggar, if I had broken my neck it would have been a little thing compared
with saving the life of such a woman as Miss Walton. Still, I fear the Lord has not much to
do with me."

"And have you been all this time with John Walton and Miss Annie and still feel that way?"

"It's not their fault."

"I believe that. Are you willin' to say you are a great sinner?"

"Of course. What else am I?"

"That's it--that's it," cried the old man, delightedly. "Now you're all right. That's just
where I was. When John Walton bid me good-by, he asked me one question that let more light
into my thick head than all the readin' and preachin' and prayin' I ever heard. He asked, 'Whom
did Jesus Christ come to save?' Answer that."

"The Bible says He came to save sinners," replied Gregory, now deeply interested.

"Well, I should think that meant you and me," said Mr. Tuggar, emphatically. "Anyhow, I know
it means me. John Walton told me that all I had to do was to just trust the Saviour--not of
good people--but of sinners, and do the best I could; and I have just done it, and I'm all
right, Mr. Gregory, I'm all right. I don't know whether I can stop swearin', but I'm a tryin'.
I don't know whether I can ever get under my old ugly temper, but I'm a tryin' and a prayin'.
But whether I can or not, I'm all right, for the good Lord came to save sinners; and if that
don't mean me, what's the use of words?"

"But can you trust Him?" asked Gregory.

"Certain I can. Wasn't John Walton an honest man? Wasn't Jesus Christ honest? Didn't he know
what He come for?"

"Admitting that He came to save sinners, how can you be sure He will save all? He might save
you and not me."

"Well," said Mr. Tuggar, "I hadn't been home long before that question come up to me, and I
thought on it a long time. I smoked wellnigh a hundred pipes on it afore I got it settled,
but 'tis settled, and when I settle a thing I don't go botherin' back about it. But like enough
'twon't satisfy you."

"At any rate, I should like to hear your conclusion."

"Well, I argued it out to myself. I says, 'Suppose there's some sinners too bad, or too somethin'
or other, for the Lord to save, and suppose you are one of them, ain't ''lected,' as my wife
says. If I could be an unbelievin' sinner for eighty years, it seemed to me that if anybody
wasn't 'lected I wasn't. I was dreadfully down, I tell yer, for I'd set my heart on bein' John
Walton's neighbor again. After I'd smoked a good many pipes, I cussed myself for an old fool.
'There, you've brought your case into court,' I says, 'and you're goin' to give it up afore
it's argued.' Then I argued it. I was honest, you may be sure. It wouldn't do me any good to
pettifog in this matter. First I says, if there was any doubt about the Lord savin' all sinners
who wanted Him to, John Walton orter have spoken of it, and from what I know of the man he
would. Then I says, arter all, it's the Lord I've got to deal with. Now what kind of a Lord
is He? Then I commenced rememberin' all that Miss Eulie and Miss Annie had read to me about
Him, and all I'd heard, and I got my wife to read some, and my hopes grew every minute. I tell
you what, Mr. Gregory, it was a queer crowd He often had around Him. I'd kinder felt at home
among 'em, 'specially with that swearin' fisherman Peter.

"Well, the upshot of it was, I couldn't find that He ever turned one sinner away. Then why
should He me? Then my wife, as she was readin', come across the words, 'Him that cometh to
Me I will in no wise cast out.' I had heard them words afore often, but it seemed now as the
first time, and I just shouted, 'I've got His word for it,' and my wife thought I was crazy,
sure 'nuff, for she didn't know what I was drivin' at. And now, Mr. Gregory, you're just shut
up to two things, just two things. Either the Lord Jesus will save every sinner that comes
to Him, or he ain't honest, and don't mean what he says, and won't do as he used to. I tell
yer I'm settled, better settled than yonder mountain. I just let myself go limber right down
upon the promise, and it's all right. I'm going to be John Walton's neighbor again."

Gregory was more affected by the old man's quaint talk than he would have believed possible.
It seemed true that he was "shut up" to one or the other of the alternatives presented. He
commenced pacing up and down the little porch in deep thought. Mr. Tuggar puffed away at his
pipe with such vigor that he was exceedingly beclouded, however clear his mind. At last Gregory
said, "I shall think over what you have said, very carefully, for I admit it has a great deal
of force to my mind."

"That's right," said Mr. Tuggar; "argue it out, just as I did. Show yourself no favors, and
be fair to yourself, and you can't get away from my conclusion. You've got to come to it."

"I should be very glad to come to it," said Gregory, gravely.

"I should think you would. There'll be some good neighbors up there, Mr. Gregory; these Waltons
are all bound to be there. Miss Annie would be kinder good company--eh, Mr. Gregory?"

In spite of himself he flushed deeply under the old man's keen scrutiny.

"There's one thing that's mighty 'plexing to me," said Mr. Tuggar, led to the subject by its
subtle connection with Gregory's blush, "and that's why the Lord didn't keep John Walton alive
a few minutes longer, so that the marriage could take place."

Gregory gave a great start. "What marriage?" he asked.

"Why, don't you know about it?" said Mr. Tuggar, in much surprise.

"No, nothing at all."

"Then perhaps I ortn't ter speak of it."

"Certainly not, if you don't think it right."

"Well, I've said so much I might as well say it all," said the old man, musingly. "It's no
secret, as I knows of;" and he told Gregory how near Annie came to being a wife.

Gregory drew a long breath and looked deathly pale and faint.

"Well, now, I'd no idea that you'd be so struck of a heap," said the old man, in still deeper
surprise.

"God's hand was in that," murmured Gregory; "God's hand was in that."

"Do you think so, now? Well, it does seem kinder cur'us, and per'aps it was, for somehow I
never took to that Hunting, though he seems all right."

"Good-by, Mr. Tuggar," said Gregory, rising; "you have given me a good deal to think about,
and I'm going to think, and act, too, if I can. I am going to New York to-morrow, and one of
the first things I do will be to fill your pipe for a long time;" and he pressed the old man's
hand most cordially.

"Let yourself go limber when you come to trust, and it will be all right," were Daddy Tuggar's
last words, as he balanced himself on his crutches in parting.

Gregory found Annie in the parlor, and he said, "I have good news for you; Daddy Tuggar is
a Christian."

Annie sprang joyfully up and said, "I'm going over to see him at once."

When she returned, Gregory was quietly reading in the parlor, showing thus that he had no wish
to avoid her.

She came directly to him and said, "Daddy Tuggar says that you propose going home to-morrow."

"Well, really, Miss Walton, I have no home to go to; but I expect to return to the city."

"Now I protest against it."

"I'm glad you do."

"Then you won't go?"

"Yes, I must; but I'm glad you don't wish me to go"

"Why need you go yet? You ought not. You should wait till you are strong."

"That is just why I go--to get strong. I never could here, with you looking so kindly at me
as you do now. You see I am as frank as I promised to be. So please say no more, for you cannot
and you ought not to change my purpose."

"O dear!" cried Annie, "how one's faith is tried! Why need this be so?"

"On the contrary," he said, "what little faith I ever had has been quite revived this afternoon.
Daddy Tuggar has been 'talking religion' to me, and, pardon me for saying it, I found his words
more convincing than even yours."

"I am not jealous of him," said Annie, gladly.

"I can't help thinking that God does see and care, in that He prevented your marriage."

Annie blushed deeply, and said, coldly, "I am sorry you touched upon that subject," and she
left the room.

Gregory went quietly on with his reading, or seemed to do so. Indeed, he made a strong effort,
and succeeded, for he was determined to master himself outwardly.

She soon relented and came back. When she saw him apparently so undisturbed, the thought came
to her, "He has truly given me up. There is nothing of the lover in that calmness, and he makes
no effort to win my favor," but she said, "Mr. Gregory, I fear I hurt your feelings. You certainly
did mine. I cannot endure the injustice you persist in doing Mr. Hunting."

"I only repeat your own words, 'We all three shall understand each other in God's good time';
and after what I heard to-day, I have the feeling that He is watching over you."

"Won't you promise not to speak any more on this subject?"

"Yes, for I have done my duty."

She took up his book and read to him, thus giving one more hour of mingled pain and pleasure;
though when he thought how long it would be before he heard that sweet voice again, if ever,
his pain almost reached the point of anguish. As she turned toward him and saw his look of
suffering, she realized somewhat the effort he had made to keep up before her.

She came to him and said, "I was about to ask a favor, but perhaps it's hardly right."

"Ask it, anyway," he said, with a smile.

"I don't urge it, but I expect Mr. Hunting this evening. Won't you come down to supper and
meet him?"

"For your sake I will, now that I have gained some self-control. I am not one to quarrel in
a lady's parlor under any provocation. For your sake I will treat Mr. Hunting like a gentleman,
and make my last evening with you as little of a restraint as possible."

"Thank you--thank you. You now promise to make it one of peculiar happiness."

Annie drove to the depot for Hunting, and told of Gregory's consent to meet him. She said,
"Now is your opportunity, Charles. Meet him in such a way as to make enmity impossible."

His manner was not very reassuring, but, in his pleasure at hearing that Gregory was soon to
depart, and that in his absence Annie's confidence in him had not been disturbed, he promised
to do the best he could. She was nervously excited as the moment of meeting approached, and,
somewhat to her surprise, Hunting seemed to share her uneasiness.

Gregory did not come down till the family were all in the supper-room. Annie was struck with
his appearance as he entered. Though his left arm was in a sling, there was a graceful and
almost courtly dignity in his bearing, a brilliancy in his eyes and a firmness, about his mouth,
which proved that he had nerved himself for the ordeal and would maintain himself. Instantly
she thought of the time when he had first appeared in that room, a half-wrecked, blase man
of the world. Now he looked and acted like a nobleman.

Hunting, on the contrary, had a shuffling and embarrassed manner; but he approached Gregory
and held out his hand, saying, "Come, Mr. Gregory, let by-gones be by-gones."

But Gregory only bowed with the perfection of distant courtesy, and said, "Good-evening, Mr.
Hunting," and took his seat.

Both Hunting and Annie blushed deeply and resentfully. After they were seated, Annie looked
toward Hunting to say "grace" as usual, but he could not before the man who knew him so well,
and there was another moment of deep embarrassment, while a sudden satirical light gleamed
from Gregory's eyes. Annie saw it, and it angered her.

Then Gregory broke the ice with quiet, well-bred ease. In natural tones he commenced conversation,
addressing now one, now another, in such a way that they were forced to answer him in like
manner. He asked Hunting about the news and gossip of the city as naturally as if they had
met that evening for the first time. He even had pleasant repartee with Johnny and Susie, who
had now come to like him very much, and his manner toward Miss Eulie was peculiarly gentle
and respectful, for he was deeply grateful to her. Indeed, that good lady could scarcely believe
her eyes and ears; but Gregory had always been an enigma to her. At first he spoke to Annie
less frequently than to any one else, for he dreaded the cloud upon her brow and her outspoken
truthfulness, and he was determined the evening should pass off as he had planned. Though so
crippled that his food had to be prepared for him, he only made it a matter of graceful jest,
and gave ample proof that a highly bred and cultivated man can be elegant in manners under
circumstances the most adverse.

Even Annie thawed and relented under his graceful tact, and felt that perhaps he was doing
all she could expect in view of the simple promise to "treat Hunting like a gentleman, for
her sake." But it had pained her deeply that he had not met Hunting's advances; and she saw
that, though perfectly courteous, he was not committing himself in the slightest degree toward
reconciliation.

Moreover, she was excessively annoyed that Hunting acted so poor a part. It is as natural for
a woman to take pride in her lover as to breathe, but she could have no pride in Hunting that
evening. He seemed annoyed beyond endurance with both himself and Gregory, though he strove
to disguise it. He knew that he was appearing to disadvantage, and this increased his embarrassment,
and he was most unhappy in his words and manner. Yet he could take exception at nothing, for
Gregory, secure in his polished armor, grew more brilliant and entertaining as he saw his adversary
losing ground.

All were glad when he supper-hour was over and they could adjourn to the parlor. Here Gregory
changed his tactics, and drawing the children aside, told them a marvellous tale as a good-by
souvenir, thus causing them to feel deep regret for his departure. He next drew Miss Eulie
into an animated discussion upon a subject he knew her to be interested in. From this he made
the conversation general, and continued to speak to Hunting as naturally as if there were no
differences between them. But all saw that he was growing very weary, and early in the evening
he quietly rose and excused himself, saying that he needed rest for his journey on the morrow.
There was the same polite, distant bow to Hunting as at first, and in deep disappointment Annie
admitted that nothing had been gained by the interview from which she had hoped so much. They
were no nearer reconciliation. While Gregory's manner had compelled respect and even admiration,
it had annoyed her excessively, for he had made her lover appear to disadvantage, and she was
almost vexed with Hunting that he had not been equal to the occasion. She was sorry that she
had asked Gregory to come down while Hunting was present, and yet courtesy seemed to require
that he should be with them, since he was now sufficiently well. Altogether it was a silent
little group that Gregory left in the parlor, as all were busy with their own thoughts.

Hunting determined to remain the following day and see Gregory off and out of the way forever,
he hoped.

The next morning Gregory did not come down to breakfast. But at about ten o'clock he started
for a short farewell stroll about the old place. Annie joined him in the garden.

"I do not think you were generous last evening," she said. "Mr. Hunting met you half-way."

"Did I not do just what I promised?"

"But I was in hopes you would do more, especially when the way was opened."

"Do you think, Miss Walton, that Mr. Hunting's manner and feelings toward me were sincerely
cordial and friendly? Was it the prompting of his heart, or your influence, that led him to
put out his hand?"

Annie blushed, in conscious confusion. "I fear I shall never reconcile you," she said, sadly.

"I fear not," he replied. "There must be a great change in us both before you can. Though the
reason I give you was a sufficient one for not taking his hand in friendly feeling, it was
not the one that influenced me. I would not have taken it under any circumstances."

"Mr. Gregory, you grieve me most deeply," she said, in a tone of real distress. "Won't you,
when you come to part, take his hand for my sake, and let a little of the ice thaw?"

"No," he said, almost sternly; "not even for your sake, for whom I would die, will I be dishonest
with myself or him; and you are not one to ask me to act a lie."

"You wound me deeply, sir!" she said, coldly.

"Faithful are the wounds of a friend," he replied. She did not answer.

"We shall not part in this way, Annie," he said, in a low, troubled voice.

"The best I can do is to give you credit for very mistaken sincerity," she answered, sadly.

"That is all now, I fear," replied he, gently. "Good-by, Annie Walton. We are really parting
now. My mission to you is past, and we go our different ways. You will never believe anything
I can say on this painful subject, and I would not have spoken of it again of my own accord.
Keep your promise to me, and all will yet be well, I believe. As that poor woman who saved
us in the mountains said, 'There will at least be one good thing about me. Whether I can pray
for myself or not, I shall daily pray for you'; and I feel that God who shielded you so strangely
once, will still guard you. Do not grieve because I go away with pain in my heart. It's a better
kind of suffering than that with which I came, and lasting good may come out of it, for my
old reckless despair is gone. If I ever do become a good man--a Christian --I shall have you
to thank; and even heaven would be happier if you were the means of bringing me there."

"When you speak that way, Walter," she said, tears starting to her eyes, "I must forgive everything;
and when you become a Christian you will love even your enemy. Please take this little package
from me, but do not open it till you reach the quiet and seclusion of your own rooms. Good-by,
my brother, for as such my father told me to act and feel toward you, and from my heart I obey."

He looked at her with moistened eyes, but did not trust himself to answer, and without another
word they returned to the house.

Gregory's leave-taking from the rest of the household was no mere form. Especially was this
true of Miss Eulie, to whom he said most feelingly, "Miss Morton, my mother could not have
been kinder or more patient with me."

When he pressed Zibbie's hand and left a banknote in it, she broke out in the broadest Scotch,
"Maister Gregory, an' when I think me auld gray head would ha' been oot in the stourm wi' na
hame to cover it, I pray the gude God to shelter yours fra a' the cauld blasts o' the wourld."

Silent Hannah, alike favored, seemed afflicted with a sudden attack of St. Vitus's dance, so
indefinite was the number of her courtesies; while Jeff, on the driver's seat, looked as solemn
as if he were to drive Gregory to the cemetery instead of the depot.

At the moment of final parting, Gregory merely took Annie's hand and looked into her eyes with
an expression that caused them speedily to droop, tear-blinded.

To Hunting he had bowed his farewell in the parlor.

When the last object connected with his old home was hidden from his wistful, lingering gaze,
he said, with the sorrow of one who watches the sod placed above the grave of his dearest,
"So it all ends."

But when in his city apartments, which never before had seemed such a cheerless mockery of
the idea of home, he opened the package Annie had given him--when he found a small, worn Bible,
inscribed with the words, "To my dear little daughter Annie, from mother," and written beneath,
in a child's hand, "I thank you, dear mother. I will read it every day"--he sprang up, and
exclaimed it strongest feeling, "No, all has not ended yet."

When he became sufficiently calm he again took up the Bible, and found the leaves turned down
at the 14th chapter of St. John, with the words, "Begin here."

"How sweetly--with what exquisite delicacy--she points me beyond the shadows of time!" he said,
musingly. "I believe in God. I ever have. Then why not trust the 'Man of Sorrows,' who also
must be God? Both Annie and her quaint old friend are right. He never turned one away who came
sincerely. In Him who forgave the outcast and thief there glimmers hope for me. How thick the
darkness as I look elsewhere. Lord Jesus," he cried, with a rush of tears, "I am palsied through
sin: lift me up, that I may come to Thee."

Better for him that night than a glowing hearth with genial friends around it was Annie's Bible.

Looking at it fondly, he said, "It links me to her happy childhood before that false man came,
and it may join me to her in the 'place' which God is preparing, when he who now deceives her
is as far removed as sin."

CHAPTER XXXII

AT SEA--A MYSTERIOUS PASSENGER

Immediately after Mr. Walton's funeral Miss Eulie had written to a brother-in-law, then, in
Europe, full particulars of all that had occurred. This gentleman's name was Kemp, and he had
originally married a sister of Miss Eulie and Mrs. Walton. But she had died some years since,
and he had married as his second wife one who was an entire stranger to the Walton family,
and with whom there could be but little sympathy. For this reason, though no unfriendliness
existed, there had been a natural falling-off of the old cordial intimacy. Mr. Walton had respected
Mr. Kemp as a man of sterling worth and unimpeachable integrity, and his feelings were shared
by Miss Eulie and Annie, while Mr. Kemp himself secretly cherished a tender and regretful memory
of his earlier marriage connection. When he heard that his niece, Annie, was orphaned, his
heart yearned toward her, for he had always been fond of her as a child. But when he came to
read of her relations with Hunting, and that this man was in charge of her property, he was
in deep distress. He would have returned home immediately, but his wife's health would not
permit his leaving her. He wrote to Miss Eulie a long letter of honest sympathy, urging her
and Annie to come to him at Paris, saying that the change would be of great benefit to both.

This letter was expressed in such a way that it could be shown to Annie. But he inclosed another
under seal to the aunt, marked private, in which by strong and guarded language he warned her
against Hunting. He did not dare commit definite charges to writing, not knowing how much influence
Hunting had over Miss Eulie. He felt sure that Annie would not listen to anything against her
lover, and justly feared that she would inform him of what she heard, thus putting him on his
guard, and increasing his power for mischief. Mr. Kemp's hope was to act through Miss Eulie,
and get both her and Annie under his protection as soon as possible. He knew that when he was
face to face with Annie he could prove to her the character of her lover, and through her compel
him to resign his executorship. Therefore he solemnly charged Miss Eulie, as she loved Annie,
not to permit her marriage with Hunting, and, as executrix, to watch his financial management
closely.

Miss Eulie was greatly distressed by the contents of this letter. Mr. Kemp's words, combined
with Gregory's manner, destroyed her confidence in Hunting, and made her feel that he might
cause them irretrievable disaster. She knew her brother to be a man of honor, and when he wrote
such words as these, "If Mr. Walton had known Hunting as I do he would rather have buried his
daughter than permit her to marry him," she was sure that he did not speak unadvisedly.

"Moreover," Mr. Kemp wrote, "I am not giving my mere opinion of Hunting. I have absolute proof
of what he is and has done."

But it was his opinion that it would not be safe to reveal to Annie the contents of this letter,
as Hunting, in the desperation of his fears, might find means to compass a hasty marriage,
or disastrously use his power over her property.

As we have seen, in quiet home-ministerings Miss Eulie had no superior, but she felt peculiarly
timid and self-distrustful in dealing with matters like these. Her first impulse and her growing
desire were that she and Annie might reach the shelter and protection of her brother. She did
not understand business, and felt powerless to thwart Hunting.

Annie's spirits greatly flagged after her father's death. Hunting did not seem to have the
power to comfort and help her that she had expected to find in him. She could not definitely
find fault with a single act, save his treatment of Gregory; he was devotion itself to her,
but it was to her alone. He proved no link between her and God. Even when in careful phrases
he sought to use the "language of Canaan," he did not speak it as a native, and ever left a
vague, unsatisfied pain in her heart. He was true and strong when he spoke of his own love.
He was eloquent and glowing when his fancy painted their future home, but cold and formal in
comparison when he dwelt on that which her Christian nature most needed in her deep affliction.

When Annie found that she could leave the children in charge of a careful, trustworthy relative,
she was readily persuaded into the plan of going abroad. She felt the need of change, for her
health had begun to fail, and she was sinking into one of those morbid states which are partly
physical and partly mental.

Hunting, also, strongly approved of the project. Business would require him to visit Europe
during the winter, and in having Annie as a companion he thought himself fortunate indeed.
He felt sure that as soon as she regained her health and spirits she would consent to their
marriage; moreover, it would place the sea between her and Gregory, thus averting all danger
of disclosure. A trip abroad promised to further his interests in all respects. He knew nothing
of Mr. Kemp save as a New York business man, and supposed that Mr. Kemp had only a general
and favorable knowledge of himself.

For Annie's sake and her own Miss Eulie tried to prevent any marked change in her manner toward
Hunting, and though she was not a very good actress he did not care enough about her to notice
her occasional restraints and formality of manner. But Annie did, and it was another source
of vague uneasiness and pain, though the causes were too intangible to speak of. She thought
it possible that Gregory had prejudiced her aunt slightly. But it was her nature to prove all
the more loyal to Hunting, especially when he was so devoted to her.

Before they could complete arrangements for departure, Annie was taken seriously ill, and January
of the ensuing year had nearly passed before she was strong enough for the journey. During
her illness no one could have been more kind and attentive than Hunting, and Annie felt exceedingly
grateful. Still, in their prolonged and close intimacy since her father's death, something
in the man himself had caused her love for him to wane. She had a growing consciousness that
he was not what she had supposed. She reproached herself bitterly for this, and under the sense
of the wrong she felt herself doing him, was disposed to show more deference to his wishes,
and in justice to him to try to make amends. When, therefore, he again urged that the marriage
take place before they sailed, giving as his reasons that he could take better care of her,
and that henceforth she could be with him, and that he would not be compelled to leave her
so often on account of his business, she was half inclined to yield. She felt that the marriage-tie
would confirm her true feelings as a wife, and that it was hardly fair to ask him to be away
from his large and exacting business so much, especially when he had appeared so generous in
the time he had given her, which must have involved to him serious loss and inconvenience.
She said to herself, "I shall be better and happier, and so will Charles, when I cease secretly
finding fault with him, and devote myself unselfishly to making a good wife and a good home."

Hunting exultantly thought that he would carry his point, but Miss Eulie proved she was not
that nonentity which, in his polite and attentive indifference, he had secretly considered
her. With quiet firmness she said that, as Annie's natural guardian, she would not give her
consent to the marriage. As a reason she said, "I think it would show a great lack of respect
and courtesy to Annie's uncle and my brother, who is so fond of her, and has been so kind.
I see no pressing need for the marriage now, for I am going with Annie and can take care of
her as I have done. If it seems best, you can be married over there, and I know that Mr. Kemp
would feel greatly hurt if we acted as if we were indifferent to his presence at the ceremony."

The moment her aunt expressed this view Annie agreed with her, and Hunting felt that he could
not greatly complain, as the marriage would be delayed but a few weeks.

Annie felt absolved from her promise to Gregory by an event that occurred not very long after
his departure. Gregory had sent a box, directed to Miss Eulie's care, containing some toys
and books for the children, and the promised tobacco for Daddy Tuggar, also a note for Annie,
inclosed in one to Miss Eulie, in which were these words only, "If you had searched the world
you could not have given me anything that I would value more."

In his self-distrust, and in his purpose not to give the slightest ground for the imputation
that he had sought her promise of delay to obtain time to gain a hearing himself, he had said
no more. But Annie thought that he might have said more. The note seemed cold and brief in
view of all that had passed between them. Still, she hoped much from the influence of her Bible.

One evening Hunting came up from the city evidently much disturbed. To her expressions of natural
solicitude he replied, "I don't like to speak of it, for you seem to think that I ought to
stand everything from Mr. Gregory. And so I suppose I ought, and indeed I was grateful, but
one can't help having the natural feelings of a man. I was with some friends and met him face
to face in an omnibus. Knowing how great was your wish that we should be friendly, I spoke
courteously to him, but he looked at me as if I were a dog. He might as well have struck me.
I saw that my friends were greatly surprised, but of course I could not explain there, and
yet it's not pleasant to be treated like a pickpocket, with no redress. I defy him," continued
Hunting, assuming the tone and manner of one greatly wronged, "to prove anything worse against
me than that I compelled him and his partners to pay money to which I had a legal right, and
which I could have collected in a court of law."

The politic Hunting said nothing of moral right, and innocent Annie was not on the lookout
for such quibbles.

Her quick feelings were strongly stirred, and on the impulse of the moment she sat down and wrote:

"Mr. Gregory--I think your course toward Mr. Hunting to-day was not only unjust, but even ungentlemanly.
You cannot hurt his feelings without wounding mine. I cannot help feeling that your hostility
is both 'unreasonable and implacable.' In sadness and disappointment, "Annie Walton."

"There," she said, "read that, and please mail it for me."

"That's my noble Annie," he said, gratefully. "Now you prove your love anew, and show you will
not stand quietly by and see me insulted."

"You may rest assured I will not," she said, promptly; adding very sadly after a moment, "I
cannot understand how Mr. Gregory, with all his good qualities, can act so."

"You do not know him so well as I do," said Hunting; "and yet even I feel grateful to him for
his services to you, and would show it if he would treat me decently."

"He shall treat you decently, and politely too, if he wishes to keep my favor," said she, hotly.

But the next day, when she thought it all over quietly, she regretted that she had written
so harshly. "My words will not help my Bible's influence," she thought in self-reproach, "and
only when he becomes a Christian will he show a different disposition."

Her regret would have been still deeper, if she had known that Hunting had sent her note with
one from himself to this effect:

"You perceive from the inclosed that you cannot insult me as you did yesterday and still retain
the favor of one whose esteem you value too highly perhaps. My only regret is that you were
not a witness to the words and manner which accompanied the act of writing."

Still stronger would have been her indignation had she known that Hunting had greatly exaggerated
his insult. Gregory had merely acted as if unconscious of his presence, and there had been
no look of scorn.

When Gregory received the missives he tossed Hunting's contemptuously into the fire, but read
Annie's more than once, sighed deeply, and said, "He keeps his ascendency over her. O God!
quench not my spark of faith by permitting this great wrong to be consummated." Then he indorsed
on her note, "Forgiven, my dear, deceived sister. You will understand in God's good time."

But he felt that God must unravel the problem, for Annie would listen to nothing against her lover.

She hoped that Gregory would write an explanation, or at least some words in self-defence,
and then she meant to soften her hasty note, but no answer came. This increased her depression,
and she was surprised at her strong and abiding interest in him. She could not understand how
their eventful acquaintance should end as it promised to. Then came her illness, and through
many long, sleepless hours, she thought of the painful mystery.

As she recovered strength of body and mind she felt that it was one of those things that she
must trustingly put in God's hands and leave there. This she did, and resolutely and patiently
addressed herself to the duties of her lot.

As for Gregory, from the first evening of his return to the city, he adopted the resolution
in regard to Annie's Bible which she, as a little child, had written in it so many years ago,
"I will read it every day."

It became his shrine and constant solace. Instead of going to his club, as was his former custom,
he spent the long, quiet evenings in its study. The more he read the more fascinated he became
by its rich and varied truths. Sometimes as he was tracing up a line of thought through its
pages, so luminously and beautifully would it develop that it seemed to him that Annie and
his mother, with unseen hands, were pointing the way. Though almost alone in the great city,
he grew less and less lonely, and welcomed the shades of evening, that he might return to a
place now sacred to him, where the gift Bible, like a living presence, awaited him.

His doubts and fears vanished slowly. His faith kindled even more slowly; but the teachings
of that inspired Book gave him principle, true manhood, and strength to do right, no matter
how he felt. He had honestly and sturdily resolved to be guided by it, and it did guide him.
He was a Christian, though he did not know it, and would not presume to call himself such even
to himself. In view of his evil past he was exceedingly humble and self-distrustful. As Mr.
Walton had told poor old Daddy Tuggar, he was simply trying to "trust Jesus Christ and do the
best he could."

But those associated with him in business, and many others, wondered at the change in him.
Old Mr. Burnett, his senior partner, was especially delighted, and would often say to him,
"I thank God, Mr. Gregory, that you nearly had your neck broken last October"; for the good
old man associated this accident with the change.

Gregory also began attending church--not a gorgeous temple on Fifth Avenue, where he was not
needed; but he hunted up an obscure and struggling mission, and said to the minister, "I am
little better than a heathen, but if you will trust me I will do the best I can to help you."

Within a month, through his liberal gifts and energetic labors, the usefulness of the mission
was almost doubled. It was touching to see him humbly and patiently doing the Lord's lowliest
work, as if he were not worthy. He hoped that in time he might receive the glad assurance that
he was accepted; but whether it came or not, he purposed to do the best he could, and leave
his fate in God's hands. At any rate God seemed not against him, for both his business and
his Christian work prospered.

One bright morning late in January, Annie, Miss Eulie, and Hunting were driven down, to the
steamer, and having gone to their state-rooms and seen that their luggage was properly stowed
away, they came up on deck to watch the scenes attending the departure of the great ship, and
observe the views as they sailed down the bay. Hunting had told them to make the most of this
part of the voyage, for in a winter passage it might be long before they could enjoy another
promenade.

Annie was intensely interested, for all was new and strange. She had a keen, quick eye for
character, and a human interest in humanity, even though those around her did not belong to
her "set." Therefore it was with appreciative eyes that she watched the motley groups of her
fellow-passengers waving handkerchiefs and exchanging farewells with equally diversified groups
on the wharf.

