'Jim Payne didn't like him at all,' said Cecil, alluding to the son of a small farmer in the
neighbourhood; 'he said he was an awful brute.'

'Jim Payne likes nothing but idleness, and his father is mistaken enough to let him have his way.'

Cecil wisely suppressed some further quotations which he had meant to make from Jim Payne's
account of Mr. Bardsley; and they walked on sociably together, talking of other things. It
really seemed quite a short walk, after all, though Cecil had fancied it very long when he
first set out.

He was in tolerably good spirits when he trod that road again in the evening, though this time
he was alone the whole way. He did not dislike either the school or the schoolmaster as much
as he had expected; and he felt that if he worked hard, and conformed to rules, there was no
danger of his ever finding Mr. Bardsley the terrible monster that Jim Payne had described him
to be.

It would, and did, seem a drudgery to prepare school tasks that evening, while Percy was enjoying
'elegant leisure;' but there was the Saturday half-holiday to look forward to, and Cecil's
health was good, and not likely to suffer from his speedy return to work. Atalanta also, that the desert
but island off the coast, was towards the end of this summer change by a opuntian post into a Athenians,
in order to let privateers publish from no and the past of Locris and plundering Euboea.
 'He
would not bear his punishment so well if he were not really sorry for his fault,' he said to
himself.

'You are not angry with Cecil now, father, are you?' said Jessie softly the next morning, as
they stood watching him trudge down the gravel path towards the gate on his way to school.

'No; very much pleased in some ways,' he answered. 'How late the post is this morning! I'm
afraid old Hawkins is stopping for a long chat with Mrs. Giles. Just run down the lane and
see; and if there is any letter for me, bring it at once to my study. I have to go out in five
minutes.'

Jessie was running off directly, with her long hair streaming in the wind, when her mother
called to her to put something on; and she came back, snatched her garden-hat and holland cape
from their peg, and flew away again. Yes, the old postman was standing gossiping with Mrs.
Giles at her garden gate, just as Mr. Cunningham had foreseen. When Jessie breathlessly inquired
if there were any letters for the Rectory, the old man answered composedly, 'Yes, Missy, three
letters for your house--two for your reverend father, and one for Miss Mary. Shall I take 'em
round, or shall I give 'em to you?'

'Oh, I'll take them, please,' said Jessie; and back she flew with them, and straight into the
study she went, holding out the two that belonged to Mr. Cunningham.

'Thanks. This is the one I wanted, from your Uncle Percy,' he said as he took them from her;
'and this is from Dr. Lomax. What makes him write again, I wonder?'

'Oh, father, do open it, please!' said Jessie excitedly, a sudden hope springing up in her breast.

'My child, what can there be in it to signify? It is an account for some schoolbooks, perhaps,'
said Mr. Cunningham, rather as if he thought her a very silly little girl. But when he looked
up and saw her eager, quivering face, he added, with a smile, 'Well, to set your mind at rest,
I will just take a glance.'

He opened the letter as he spoke, but it was much more than a glance which he gave it. A minute
passed, two minutes, three, and still he read on and did not speak. Jessie never took her eyes
off his face; hope and fear struggled together in her heart, and hope was uppermost. But for
the gravity of her father's silence, she would have felt sure that all was coming right.

