Now the expression of vision, of reality, of beauty, at an artist's hands--the creation of
new life in all forms--has two factors: the living moulding creative spirit, and the material
in which it works. Between these two there is inevitably a difference of tension. The material
is at best inert, and merely patient of the informing idea; at worst, directly recalcitrant
to it. Hence, according to the balance of these two factors, the amount of resistance offered
by stuff to tool, a greater or less energy must be expended, greater or less perfection of
result will be achieved. You, accepting the wide deep universe of the mystic, and the responsibilities
that go with it, have by this act taken sides once for all with creative spirit: with the higher
tension, the unrelaxed effort, the passion for a better, intenser, and more significant life.
The adoration to which you are vowed is not an affair of red hassocks and authorised hymn books;
but a burning and consuming fire. You will find, then, that the world, going its own gait,
busily occupied with its own system of correspondences-- yielding to every gust of passion,
intent on the satisfaction of greed, the struggle for comfort or for power--will oppose your
new eagerness; perhaps with violence, but more probably with the exasperating calmness of a
heavy animal which refuses to get up. If your new life is worth anything, it will flame to
sharper power when it strikes against this dogged inertness of things: for you need resistances
on which to act. "The road to a Yea lies through a Nay," and righteous warfare is the only
way to a living and a lasting peace.

Further, you will observe more and more clearly, that the stuff of your external world, the
method and machinery of the common life, is not merely passively but actively inconsistent
with your sharp interior vision of truth. The heavy animal is diseased as well as indolent.
All man's perverse ways of seeing his universe, all the perverse and hideous acts which have
sprung from them-- these have set up reactions, have produced deep disorders in the world of
things. Man is free, and holds the keys of hell as well as the keys of heaven. Within the love-driven
universe which you have learned to see as a whole, you will therefore find egotism, rebellion,
meanness, brutality, squalor: the work of separated selves whose energies are set athwart the
stream. But every aspect of life, however falsely imagined, can still be "saved," turned to
the purposes of Reality: for "all-thing hath the being by the love of God." Its oppositions
are no part of its realness; and therefore they can be overcome. Is there not here, then, abundance
of practical work for you to do; work which is the direct outcome of your mystical experience?
Are there not here, as the French proverb has it, plenty of cats for you to comb? And isn't
it just here, in the new foothold it gives you, the new clear vision and certitude--in its
noble, serious, and invulnerable faith-- that mysticism is "useful"; even for the most scientific
of social reformers, the most belligerent of politicians, the least sentimental of philanthropists?

To "bring Eternity into Time," the "invisible into concrete expression"; to "be to the Eternal
Goodness what his own hand is to a man"--these are the plainly expressed desires of all the
great mystics. One and all, they demand earnest and deliberate action, the insertion of the
purified and ardent will into the world of things. The mystics are artists; and the stuff in
which they work is most often human life. They want to heal the disharmony between the actual
and the real: and since, in the white-hot radiance of that faith, hope, and charity which burns
in them, they discern such a reconciliation to be possible, they are able to work for it with
a singleness of purpose and an invincible optimism denied to other men. This was the instinct
which drove St. Francis of Assist to the practical experience of that poverty which he recognised
as the highest wisdom; St. Catherine of Siena from contemplation to politics; Joan of Arc to
the salvation of France; St. Teresa to the formation of an ideal religious family; Fox to the
proclaiming of a world-religion in which all men should be guided by the Inner Light; Florence
Nightingale to battle with officials, vermin, dirt, and disease in the soldiers' hospitals;
Octavia Hill to make in London slums something a little nearer "the shadows of the angels'
houses" than that which the practical landlord usually provides.

All these have felt sure that a great part in the drama of creation has been given to the free
spirit of man: that bit by bit, through and by him, the scattered worlds of love and thought
and action shall be realised again as one. It is for those who have found the thread on which
those worlds are strung, to bring this knowledge out of the hiddenness; to use it, as the old
alchemists declared that they could use their tincture, to transmute all baser; metals into gold.

So here is your vocation set out: a vocation so various in its opportunities, that you can
hardly fail to find something to do. It is your business to actualise within the world of time
and space-- perhaps by great endeavours in the field of heroic action, perhaps only by small
ones in field and market, tram and tube, office and drawing-room, in the perpetual give-and-take
of the common life--that more real life, that holy creative energy, which this world manifests
as a whole but indifferently. You shall work for mercy, order, beauty, significance: shall
mend where you find things broken, make where you find the need. "Adoro te devote, latens Deitas,"
said St. Thomas in his great mystical hymn: and the practical side of that adoration consists
in the bringing of the Real Presence from its hiddenness, and exhibiting it before the eyes
of other men. Hitherto you have not been very active in this matter: yet it is the purpose
for which you exist, and your contemplative consciousness, if you educate it, will soon make
this fact clear to you. The teeming life of nature has yielded up to your loving attention
many sacramental images of Reality: seen in the light of charity, it is far more sacred and
significant than you supposed. What about your life? Is that a theophany too? "Each oak doth
cry I AM," says Vaughan. Do you proclaim by your existence the grandeur, the beauty, the intensity,
the living wonder of that Eternal Reality within which, at this moment, you stand? Do your
hours of contemplation and of action harmonise?

