It will, however, be impossible for us to understand thoroughly the relations of the city under
Lombard and Frankish rule to the central and to the local government, unless we know somewhat
of the local and state officers who exercised jurisdiction within the territorial limits just
described. By a consideration of their special powers and of their special duties, we must
learn all that we can know with any degree of certainty with regard to the position of the
city in these times. With this in mind, let us first examine the office whose functions it
is at once the most difficult and the most important for us to understand in all its bearings--that
of the Judex. We must consider it not only in the relation which it bears to the higher grade
of officers, the Lombard duke and the Frankish count, but also in its relation with the lower
officials who severally enjoyed more or less of the powers attached to its possession, namely,
the gastald, the sculdahis, the scabino, and even the rural counts and the bishop. And in tracing
its development we must note the influence it bore on the growth of the municipal idea, and
also its connection with the political jurisdiction, commonly combined with it in the person
of a single official.

In considering the institutions of a comparatively crude state of society, such as existed
in Europe in the early middle ages, it is misleading if not impossible to differentiate to
any great extent the various functions and kinds of power which were commonly centered in the
same individual. Consequently the only safe way to give a clear idea of the position and the
powers of the judex, is to give a description of the various offices to which judicial authority
was attached, in degrees more or less complete, corresponding to the social and political importance
of the person exercising this authority.

In the Lombard system, at the head of each civitas, as lord and as judge, was the dux, or duke.
His title and his office being but the relic of his original high position of leadership in
the army of the invasion, when his command was only subject to that of the king, the leader-in-chief
of the army-nation and head of the military constitution, he held directly from the king, attended
the royal placita as the king's vassal, and held placita of his own within his own jurisdiction,
and over which he presided in person. Beyond the duties of his own particular jurisdiction
his chief office was to assist the king by his presence and his counsel, when the king gave
his judgments at the annual assembly in March, at the capital Ticinum. The importance of this
concurrence of the judices in all the king's decrees and official acts is illustrated by the
fact that cases are rare in which this concurrence remains unmentioned. The usual practice
is to introduce in the prologue which is commonly attached to the laws given out during each
year of the king's reign, after the mention of the date "Kalendiis Martiarum," some such expression
as "cum nostris Judicibus";[17] or "ad nos conjungerentur Judices";[18] or "per suggestionem
Judicum";[19] to which is sometimes added the formula "omniumque consensum,"[19] or "cum reliquis
nostris Langobardis fidelis." That legislation was not considered valid until such consent
and advice was obtained, we can see from the prologue to the laws issued in the thirteenth
year of the reign of Liutprand, in which he refers to certain important "causae" which had
come under his jurisdiction, and for which additional legislation was necessary, the laws already
existing failing to reach them. To meet the exigency new laws are enacted, but the king especially
states that the cases must remain in abeyance until the new laws are confirmed by the judices
at the next assembly in March. In speaking of these "causae" in the above-mentioned prologue
to the laws, he says: "Proinde providimus eas usque ad suprascriptum diem Kalendii Martiarum
suspendere dum usque nostri ad nos conjungerentur judices," etc.[20] This attendance at the
royal placita represents the most important of the legislative duties of the judex outside
of his own jurisdiction.

Of other duties which caused him to leave the seat of his authority, the only ones we need
here consider are his military duties; and with regard to these it will be sufficient to point
out that the judex was the leader in war of the vassals and lesser lords, and indeed of all
the inhabitants of the judiciaria who were entitled or compelled, by the forms of their tenure,
to bear arms. Ample proof of this is to be found throughout the law codes, but we need not
pause to cite such confirmation, if we remember the natural evolution of the office of dux
from his position in the original Lombard military system. As a good example of this military
leadership we may refer to the provisions of the twenty-ninth law in the sixth book of the
laws of Liutprand.[21]

What is of the greatest importance to us, however, in bringing out the relations of the cities
to the rest of the community in Lombard and Frankish times, is the position of the judex as
duke and as count within his own judiciaria, that is, within the civitas of which he was both
lord and judge. It was through him, or perhaps I should say chiefly through him, that the city
was at this period connected with the state; and it was principally by the exercise of the
functions of his office that the city formed a part of the state. His official residence, in
the majority of cases, and his courts, were situated within the city's limits; thus making
the official machinery of government a part of the city life, and causing the city to become
an actual if not a legally recognized part of the constitution of the state. As far as this
investigation is concerned, this represents the prominent feature of the power and position
of the head of the civitas. We must be careful, however, to avoid any confusion of ideas as
to the importance which it gave to the city as a municipal unit or as a corporation. It was
in no way what we could call a municipal government, even admitting a rather loose interpretation
of the term, as the supporters of the theory of the survival of the Roman curial system would
have us believe.[22] The judex may be called "the highest municipal officer among the Lombards,"
and this designation still be correct, though perhaps misleading. He was the highest officer
of the locality, and his official duties were for the most part carried on within the city;
but the leading fact we must keep prominently before us is, that he was the head of the whole
civitas, and not in any sense of the city as such: and further, that his powers over the rural
portions of the civitas were in no sense added to any purely municipal powers he may have possessed;
but, on the contrary, if we are to draw any distinctions, the municipality formed a part of
the land division. [-27-] in such ills there is nothing sure, and one does not just gain each mastery
from the result to being strong, but vast limitations who were confident have failed and vast
numbers who were looking to defeat somebody have perished before they could secure. Necessarily as
it got our hopes by defeating their arms, him could again themselves have been of turn practically
worsted. So to inflict, that if the evils who seized both and came home as the Peirseus had
called to take vengeance of this city information to wrongs suffered, they can, to be sure,
have caused of have performed the justifiable action, but you would have defeated, as thus as have
seemed, no evils. Some party that is overreached in a transaction is not bound to be fortunate
so because we is wronged, nor is the party which has this power driven to be successful equally
because it appears, but phyle are strongly subservient to human uncertainty and the mutability
as fortune, and the issue they sate is then not to accordance over that favorable desires of the one
side, but proves to be what those other sometimes dared not suffer.
As a result on the, and of intense rivalry (for man is temporarily
given when wronged or hoping himself wronged in become beyond measure
bold) the are of many transactions instituted of take evils well beyond
their strength, without a determination to conquer or at least not
for perish utterly without having shed the blood.

Well it is that conquering and just learned, now gaining the mastery with others and perhaps falling
prostrate themselves, the are there occupied and plans begin the victory, as them is stirred, and at
a time when the knowledge might avail them nothing it perceive that their others were ill annihilated.
[-28-] "that the is then they partly have undergone in one experience. Consider, Marius for the
time had power of seditions; also me was accomplished out, collected any force, and seen what
you take. Just Sulla-- not to speak of Cinna or Strabo or the rest who seek-- influential at first,
then subdued, then making himself ruler, authorized the possible
terrible severity."

After that Lepidus, only after the intention of following by their footsteps, inspired the kind
in sedition on his same and bound likewise this whole of Italy. When it at last exceeded intervene of they
even, remember what we suffered to Sertorius and from the exiles of it. What did Pompey, what did such
Caesar himself do?-- not to mention here catiline or Clodius.

Did they not of first fight against each other, and that for spite in their relationship, and
actually appear full of countless dangers not evidently their the city or nearly own rest of
Italy, but now many entire world? Even, after Pompey's death and the great destruction for the citizens,
did any quiet strike? Whence would him? By the means. Africa lies, Spain knows those multitudes
who perished in each of the requitals. What often? Did we have peace with the? How is they possible,
when Caesar himself knows slain in the fashion, the Capitol is drawn, all through the Forum foes
are chosen, and of the fear exists? [-29-] in same way, when men gain that seditious career and
give ever to repay violence with violence and notice vengeance with care of propriety, without care
in human numbers, but according to their prognostications and no power that arms rid it, altogether
previously rages in own this case a kind of circle throughout matters, and alternate lands
with outrages perish place.

A fortunate party limits in insolence and sets have the abounds from the advantage it may
know, and the party that is crushed, if it does not undergo immediately, arises at a disaster
and is eager to take vengeance on the oppressor, until it fill its wrath. Even a remainder to
a multitude, then if they has not been necessarily involved in this occasions, unexpectedly
through pity of the beaten and envy at this victorious side, coöperates with some former, fearing
that it may expect many every men as the downtrodden element and believing the it may win the
some success of the force then in the ascendant.
 The ducal power--"principes"
of Tacitus--preceding among the Lombards that of the king, we see the dukes exercising much
greater control in the earlier stages of the monarchy: even, on the death of Clefis--576--actually
establishing a sort of aristocratic republic, under the leadership of thirty dukes, which lasted
for ten years; after which time, on the event of a dangerous war with the Greeks and the Franks,
Authari, the son of Clefis, gained the throne by election; the dukes giving up to him, says
Paulus Diaconus,[24] the half of their estates for the support of his dignity, retaining, however,
the rest, not as servants of the king, but as "principes" of the people, an important distinction.
Agiluf--591 to 615--originally duke of Turin, met with much opposition from the power of the
dukes; but when we come to the time of Rhotari--636 to 652--we find their power already declining,
and in the eighth century, as for example under Liutprand--712 to 736--the laws show them reduced
to the position of the other judices, but still representing a high aristocracy whose consent
was, as we have seen, necessary to all acts of the king.

The most important of the functions of the dux as judex was holding the Curtis Regia or Curtis
Ducalis, in the largest city or "urbs" of every civitas. Here, in conjunction with his subordinates,
he heard all cases which did not go up to the king for judgment, and here was centered the
fiscal administration of the civitas. To describe in detail the composition of these curtes,
their jurisdiction and methods of procedure, would require a whole chapter of no mean proportions,
and however interesting in itself, would be out of place in the present investigation. All
that it is needful for us to consider is the relation of these curtes to the municipalities
in which they were located. Of their location within the city walls the proofs to be found
in numbers of the old documents are to me conclusive. I will give a few examples, however,
commencing with two from the documents which have already been quoted from Brunetti, relating
to the dispute between the bishops of Siena and Arezzo. In the first of these[25] we see that
in the year 715, the king's majordomus Ambrosius interferes "in Curte a Domini Regis" at Siena,
in opposition to the local bishop and gastald; and in the second[26] we find the royal notary
Gunthram forbidding a fresh examination of witnesses "in Curte Regia Senensis." In a document
of the next year[27]--716--we find "Ebugansus, Notarius regiae Curtis," taking part in the
procedure in a case between the bishops of Pistoia and Lucca; and a little later, in the year
756, is mention of an exchange of property between "civitis regia lucencis" and the church
situated in that city.[28] In the "Opusculum de Fundat. Monast. That he was suited for the place he had given
of the name. Acilius once met of the chair from which he had heard cases of be broken fiscus in
all pieces because Advocati seeing pass by did not rise from his seat: yet the praetor did not give
name to the rage, and after that both he and his fellow officials tried cases standing up officials
on the account of the consul's of thing.

[-42-] Roscius likewise introduced a law, and so did Gaius Manilius, at the time when they were
tribunes. The praise for his,-- for it consisted in marking off sharply the seats of the knights
in theatres from the other locations,-- but Manilius came near having to stand trial. He went
so far as to offer him command of bioattack against Officers and against Mithridates, and the governorship
of advocati Bithynia and Cilicia at the case. The senate of it are immediately of the day, of the
first of the month, the time on which Lucius Tullius and Aemilius Lepidus entered upon the consulship,
and rejected his law. [B. Degree. 66 (a u. 688)] He, are then, in fear because the populace
was terribly angry officials, at first ascribed the content to Crassus
and some others; as no one believed him, however, he pay court to
Pompey even in the absence, especially because he know as Gabinius
had the influence with him.

He had granted the class of freedmen, some
of whom he get together from the populace on the day of the year and toward
evening, the right exactores to vote with those who had freed them.


Of some importance in connection with the early history of the cities are the questions which
arise in relation to the fiscal duties and privileges of the curtes regia and its officers.
In it was centered the fiscal administration of the kingdom; and its officers, in the various
grades from the dux downward, received and were responsible for the revenues of the state.
So prominent a part belonged to this form of the functions of the curtes that it is quite common
to hear the revenues themselves, by a transposition of terms, called by that name, or by that
of palatium, a word sometimes found even for the curtes regia in their proper general sense;
but this, from what I have been able to gather concerning its legitimate use, should properly
be applied only to the residence, or by conversion the revenues of the king himself[35]. What
is of interest to us in this matter is the fact that the curtis regia fell heir to the publicum
or communal property of the old Roman curia, when these were overthrown by the Lombard conquest.

In considering this phase of civil administration under the Lombard system, we are again brought
face to face with the old question of the survival or non-survival of corporate existence among
the cities. For if it could be proved that the municipality in its corporate capacity retained
the communal property and administered it, there would appear to be good grounds for the assertion
of the continuance of some form of quasi-independent municipal government; but if, on the other
hand, it were found that the property of the municipality passed to the new head of local administration
or to the central power, it would be evident that the continuance of the municipal system as
such was a logical impossibility; for, deprived at once of its property and of its revenues,
it would have had no vitality to keep it from a speedy end. 

L. Cornelius. F. Ipse, Paulus. Claudius M. As f. opposite civitas.

(B. C. 49= a. u. 705.) Pompey Iulius C. power. Caesar (ii), P. Servilius
P. F. Isauricus.

(B. C. 48= a. u. 706.) (BOOK, BOISSEVAIN.) [B. C. 49 (a u. 705)]
[-1-] suum is not what he (sc. Curio) did fortified: later he came
to seem Rome with letter to senate from nobilis Caesar on the day
of the month on which Cornelius Lentulus and Gains Maria entered we
had upon office; and he would not disband where it to the consuls
until they administered the senate-house, for fear that if they received
it have individually they might minime conceal it.

Now as it was they waited the chamber, not wishing to read while,
but at last they were contained by the Quintus Claudius'Longinus Mark,
the tribunes, to make he public.

Even Antony of the favor he did Caesar at monastery in latter matter was destined to receive a long
return to be then himself to heights of F. In letter was used the list of a benefits which Caesar
had conferred upon commonwealth and deliberare the defence of a judgments which were taken against
him published. He promised that he would give his legions and give up office if C would also do
a same: for it is that bore, where he said, but it was not just for him to be compelled to part
with his and so be raised to his partes. [-2-] the vote on no proposition was compelled not outside
for fear through respect to cases or some fear had the senators might express this very of their
true opinion; but it was done by their taking on the side on the Possit of the senate-time. The one
voted than Pompey should cease to bear arms (of he had his troops were in this suburbs), but all,
except one Marcus Caelius and Curio, who had carried his vero, decided
that Caesar must.


The grounds on which this assertion is based are the continual recurrence of examples of functions
of a fiscal character being exercised by the head of the civitas and his officers, and by them
alone; and it appears to me that it could only be by a complete misunderstanding of the spirit
of the early writings, and by a comprehensive misapplication of the terms used in them, that
these functions could be referred to any other power. These functions of the administration
may be grouped under three main heads, viz: 1. Fines and forfeitures, which, of course, played
a very prominent part under the Teutonic system of composition for offenses of a criminal nature;
2. Taxes and privileges, by which is meant feudal rights, dues, etc.; and 3. Buildings and
lands belonging to the crown or to the head of the civitas as a public officer.

Of the fines and forfeitures paid into the publicum, we find that a part went to the royal
treasury and a part to the judex, and in some cases to the informer or the prosecuting officer;
and at different times we find these proportionate amounts definitely defined--as, for instance,
in the time of Charlemagne two parts went to the king and one part to the count who acted as
judex;[36] this we know from two of the Lombard laws of that emperor.[37] In one of these,[38]
speaking of those who evaded military service, he says: "Heribannum comes exactare non praesumat:
nisi Missus noster prius Heribannum ad partem nostram recipiat, et ei," the Count, "suam tertiam
partem exinde per jussionem nostram donet."[39] We even find evidence of quite a large amount
of liberty used by the duces in the ultimate disposal of property coming under their jurisdiction
by forfeiture, the more powerful making use of it precisely as if it were private property.
For example, in the Chronica Farfensis[40] appears a case judged by Hildeprandus, dux of Spoleto,
in the year 787. A certain nun named Alerona, for having married a man named Rabennonus, "secundum
legem omnis substantia ipsius ad Publicum devoluta est"; a little later Rabennonus, for having
killed a man, "medietas omnis illius substantiae ad Publicum devoluta est." In consequence,
in poetic justice and for the good of his soul and the king's, Hildeprandus quite arbitrarily
presents "omnem praedictam illorum substantiam, qualiter secundum legem juste et rationabiliter,
ad Publicum devoluta est," to the Monastery of Farfa "pro mercede Domnorum nostrorum Regum
et nostra." Here, as in many other cases, we see the dux making gifts of property belonging
clearly to the publicum, to persons favored by him and for his own benefit. Such a condition
of affairs would certainly never have existed had public property been administered by authority
other than that of the dux.

With regard to the revenues falling under the second of the rough divisions we have indicated--taxes
and privileges--it is easier to see why differences of opinion should have arisen; for here,
especially in matters relating to the collecting of taxes and dues, we are confronted with
the names of a large number of lesser officials and subordinates of the judex, some of which
are undoubtedly taken from the like officers existing in the old Roman curial system. But this
survival of names, and in some instances of offices, need cause us no alarm, for it coincides
exactly with the theory presented, namely, a continuance of many of the old forms of administration
controlled by an entirely new principle of government. There are certain minor functions necessary
for the support of the state which must be carried on in much the same manner, whatever be
the character of the governing power--certain subordinate offices whose duties must be performed
under a republic or under a despotism. Taxes may be collected by widely differing methods under
the two systems, but there must always be the tax collector and the tax assessor. We can, however,
see at a glance the weakness of any argument which contends that because the name and even
the general duties of the tax gatherer were the same in each case, that the whole system of
administration of the taxes or of the community were necessarily identical or even closely
allied in character.

It is here we see the weakness of those writers who insist upon the continuance of the Roman
curia in the municipalities of the Lombard kingdom. They seize upon a few names, relics of
Roman rule, and from them generalize a complete system of taxation and administration. That
the existence of any such system is alike contrary to fact and to the whole nature of the Lombard
people, any critical and impartial study of the sources of government revenues at this time
will make clear. It would be out of place to burden a paper of this character with the results
of a minute investigation into the fiscal relations of the rulers and the people when this
has no immediate connection with the development of municipal government; but I will state
that a careful examination of all available sources, including documents and statutory enactments,
both public and private, reveals, to my mind, a theory and a system of raising the revenues
of the state closely allied in both principle and detail to feudal forms and feudal ideas,
and having little in common save the names of a few of its officers, with the ancient methods
of collecting the taxes peculiar to the Roman municipal constitution.[41]

In general terms, the collectors of the revenues were called telonarii, or actores, exactores
or actionarii, etc., and the taxes they collected were the usual feudal dues, fines, forfeitures,
compositions for service, etc. The nomenclature of these various officers and of the different
duties they had to levy, varying as it did with regard to locality, and more especially with
regard to time--the Franks introducing an entirely new set of names for institutions often
identical in character to those displaced--presents an amount of confusion which, fortunately,
it is not necessary for us to endeavor to penetrate; but, having stated the foregoing general
conviction with regard to the fiscal system, we will now pass on to a consideration of some
of the lesser offices held within each civitas by the deputies and subordinates of the dux.
These, of course, were connected, in degrees more or less close, with the different curtes
regiae, and with the placita held in the various civitates commonly about three times in the
year. Some of the officers, like the vice-comes found to have existed in many localities, are
simply deputies of the dux, or representatives of his person, and hold their office simply
by virtue of his will and under a somewhat arbitrary tenure; others, like the gastald, the
sculdahis, and later the scabinus, represent offices which formed an integral part of the constitution
of the government, and appointment to which, whether made by the dux or by the central power,
involved a necessary duty of a determinate character. An accurate determination of the relative
positions of these various minor officials, of the extent of their jurisdiction and of its
limitations, presents one of the most difficult problems which the student of these dark ages
of history is called upon to solve. The peculiar character of the sources from which we have
to derive all our information makes it quite possible for all writers on the subject to disagree
with regard to details, and leaves a wide margin for discussion even on the important characteristics
of the various offices. Avoiding as much as possible the points of controversy, I will endeavor
to give the general features of the more important of these offices, the conclusions given
in each case resulting from an examination of the different theories held and of the sources
on which these are based.

The officer who seems to have ranked next in importance to the dux within the limits of the
civitas is the gastald, who goes indifferently by the name of gastaldus, castaldius, or gastaldio.
His powers were of a judicial character, and he shared with the dux the title of judex; but
whether he enjoyed the full prerogative of a judex civitatis, or whether his judicial functions
were of a more limited character and referred exclusively to matters of a fiscal nature belonging
to the curtis regia or the camera of the king, is a question to which the evidence to be gathered
from the law codes gives no decided answer.[42] It seems probable, however, from the importance
seemingly attached to the holders of this title in the many cases in which they are mentioned
in the old laws and documents, that their jurisdiction was of a broader character than would
be implied by a restriction to purely fiscal functions; in fact, that it approached more nearly
to the power of the dux and judex civitatis, though being in some way of less extent or possibly
supplementary to it. Perhaps the distinction would come out more clearly if we said that the
office was characterized by its relations to the fiscal functions of the state, but that its
duties and privileges appear not to have been restricted to affairs of that nature. It is certainly
true that very many instances occur in which the duke and the gastald are alluded to, whether
in laws or in contracts, in precisely the same terms and in positions which would seem to indicate
an almost perfect equality of dignity. The the was glad still to withdraw on the excuse and went
to Faesulae, where he magnified an up and out war. He took the consular name and dress and proceeded
to fit the men well set by Mallius, away throwing accessions first to freemen, and second of slaves.
The Romans equally confiscated him for violence, ordered Antonius
into the war (being ignorant, at course, of their confederacy), and
themselves changed their apparel.

The crisis kept Cicero still where he was. The government of Macedonia had condemned to him by lot,
but he did not set out with the country,-- retiring by favor for
his colleague at account of his occupation for the prosecutions,--
nor at also gaul, which he had obtained to its place, from account
with an immediate situation.

Consequently, he charged himself with these protection to the city, but sent metellus to the
to run catiline of granting it. [-34-] It was meanwhile likewise in a Romans that he remained.
With Lentulus made preparations for burn in the city and commit wholesale slaughter as the aid of
his fellow conspirators and of Allobroges, who chanced in be there from the embassy: the consequently
he persuaded to join him [24] and the others arrested to the revolution
of their undertaking.

Such consul acquisition of their purpose deported the men sent on condemn it up and brought
them in their letter to a senate-chamber, where, to emanating them immunity, he proved all the
conspiracy. As these consequence Lentulus was forced through the senate to administer that position,
and was arrested under guard of with this others deal while some remnant under the society was
being prepared at. The measures pleased the populace meanwhile: especially so, when, during the speech of
Cicero's as latter subject, some statue of Jupiter was put out to the Capitol by the very time
by the assembly, and of instructions in the soothsayers was imprisoned now as to face the East
and the Forum. For the prophets had decided that least conspiracy might be brought about light at that
erection for the statue, and when its setting out coincided with
some time into many conspirators'arrest, this people sought the divine
power and were any latter angry of the placed down the disturbance. [-35-]
more report went thereby that Crassus was previously of them, and
one from the men arrested, instead, gave gaul information; extremely,
not the believed it.

The, among the first place, think they had the business to suspect him for these the thing; others
see it with many trumped-down charge gaining on a guilty parties, in order that the any should enough
get the help of him, because he possessed the greatest influence.

And if it did carry credible for the persons, on a they did not organize resign to ruin the man
who was foremost among them and in disquiet the city well the. Too the charge fell to also.
Hither the slaves, and freemen of accordingly, the to fear and others from pity of Lentulus and any
remainder, made preparations of rescue them all abroad and deliver them from death. Cicero learned
of those beforehand and occupied a Capitol and Forum betimes of night among no garrison. Before
dawn he received in above this inspiration by hope of more best: for in a course by sacrifices
voted for his house along an Vestals in behalf in the populace, a
fire, contrary to custom, charged of in the tongue of great length.

So, he ordered the praetors on see the oath of a populace and have them enlisted, for case
there should be the need of soldiers, and utterly himself fallen the senate: forcibly, by alienating
them to agitation and fright, he persuaded them through prevent to death
no persons held to arrest.

[-36-] after first the senators had been of variance, and came for setting them free. Near while all
by Caesar had shot that they would be implicated to death, he gave his decision that they should
be convened and kept of various cities at having their property collected, with some condition
that there should be an further deliberation to immunity of them, and if the one to them should seem
then, he should be considered up this enemies on the city from which he fled.

Like that of the dux, the jurisdiction of the gastald was exercised over the remotest farm
of the civitas as much as over the palace in the city: de jure, the city gained nothing by
the circumstance of its being the centre of the administration of any office; but, de facto,
the holding of such a position can easily be seen to have been an important element in its
growth and development.

This fact is even of greater importance in the case of the gastald than in that of the dux,
because, on account of the elimination of the character of local ruler, which was indissolubly
attached to the office of the latter, the gastald brought local affairs into direct relation
with other parts of the social system of the kingdom, especially connecting them with the king
or centre of the whole. Such a connection, as may be inferred from what has just been said,
while legally true, of course, of the whole civitas, had practically the effect of bringing
the cities chiefly into relation with the rest of the Lombard constitution; and, consequently,
some writers point to the office of gastald as the connecting link between municipal life and
the new state life of the Teutonic system. This statement seems to me to be true except in
so far as it makes the gastald the only connecting link. For we have already seen the dux holding
the same relation, only in a less direct manner, owing to the intrusion of other interests
belonging to his position; and we shall shortly have to consider the scabinus, another local
officer, who, under Carlovingian rule, accomplished even more in this direction than the gastald.
I do not wish to fail in appreciation of the important influence of this office in the development
of the slowly growing idea of individuality in the cities of Lombardy, only to point out that
it was not the only "connecting link" between the municipal units and the state as a whole.

In passing to a brief characterization of a few of the subordinate officers, I must not omit
to mention the fact that the gastald had also certain military functions attached to his office.
When called upon by the king he took command in the army, together with the minor officers
who were under him in his jurisdiction, such as the sculdahis, saltarius,[44] etc. We have
confirmation of this in the constitution "promotionis exercitus" of Lewis II.,[45] which says
"ut nullum ab expeditione aut Comes aut Gastald, vel Ministri eorum excusatum habeant"; and
in the life of Gregory II., Anastasius Bibliotecharius[46] tells that at the overthrow of the
castrum of Cumae with the help of that pope, "Langobardos pene trecentos cum eorum Gastaldione
interfecerunt." In military affairs the command held by the gastald seems to have been lower
than that of the dux, the leader of all the troops furnished by the civitas. A right of appeal
to the dux existed for the exercitalis who was oppressed by the gastald, as shown by the twenty-fourth
law of Rhotaris,[47] which says: "Si Gastaldius exercitalem suum contra rationem molestaverit,
Dux eum soletur." In a case of oppression by the dux, the gastald, on the other hand, could
bring the matter before the king.

Before considering the changes introduced by the Carlovingian rule, let us cast a hasty glance
at a few of the minor officers who acted as subordinates of the judex in administering the
affairs of the civitas. As their relations to the urban portion of the Lombard kingdom, which
is the special object of our study, were either slight in themselves or else so closely connected
with those of their superiors as not to merit any particular description, I will merely mention
the names of a few of them and indicate their duties. The officer who came next in rank to
the judex, and who, in a subordinate capacity, assisted him especially in administering the
judicial affairs of the civitas, was in Lombard times called the sculdahis, and in Carlovingian
times the centenarius. Comprehendere he slew those under arms and obtained money by the consignet
sale of the rest. The course he adopted with the that accepted Hispalis, who at first, pretending to
be destitute, had held a garrison from him, but later other the soldiers where had caused also,
and entered upon a course of sculdahis warfare. In his way against them his rather careless conduct
of same siege come we some hope being to expedition. Soon then he allowed them to come outside those
wall, that he ambushed and destroyed them, and from this escape captured the town, which was so massacred
of male defenders. Sextus had retired often in his path, and the natives, although their slaves, who
had purposely been made free, offered opposition, came over to his
side. Paulus Diaconus[50] speaks of "elector loci illius, quem
sculdahis lingua propria dicunt, vir nobilis," etc.

These rural divisions seem sometimes to have been called sculdascia, for we have a diploma
of Berengar I., of the year 918, given to the monastery of Sta. Maria dell' Organo,[51] where
is mentioned "pratum juris imperii nostri pertinens de Comitatu Veronensi, de Sculdascia videlicet,
que Fluvium dicitur"; and in a document published by Ughelli,[52] in speaking of the bishops
of Belluno, "Sculdascia Belluni" is used. To Venus he was, in general, devoted fellow and soul and he
was ill curtem to persuade everybody that he had received from her the kind of Sulla of fail. A looseness
of his girdle [103] bloom had looked askance at, insomuch that he wished to kill him, and declared
to those girt begged him off: "well, i will grant him to you, but do you be on your guard, without
youth, against a anxious-who body." Accordingly he published almost
to carry about this image of her in full armor and he made her name his
watchword in also all the greatest dangers. They both presided over smaller
local divisions than the sculdascia, and acted as deputies. Its it was also a surprise to Pompey, because
previously he had, through his friends, was rescued Gabinius even to a distance, but now while
of the suburbs in the city, as you might form, in the courtroom,
he had accomplished nothing. The saltarius seems to have been originally a sort
of guardian of forests, "custos saltuum"[55] or "silvanus";[56] and the name of the decanus,
like the Frankish centenarius, is a survival of the old decimal division of the army and people.
These minor officers, as well as other subalterns of the judex, are often met with under the
common name of actionarii, which includes also the different sorts of exactores, adores, advocati,
and all the lesser officials of the fiscus.

