SAY, FELLOWS--"

Fifty Practical Talks with Boys on Life's Big Issues

by

WADE C. SMITH

Author of "The Little Jetts Telling Bible Stories"

New York     Chicago Fleming H. Revell Company London and Edinburgh

1921

Adapted from the Author's weekly Sunday School Lesson Treatments in The Sunday School Times,
by permission of the Editors. "I had seen a picture of a fire engine," he added, "so I wrote:

"'With a clatter of hoofs and a whirr of wheels, the fire engine dashed around the corner.
The driver was crouched low in the seat. He was driving like Jehu.'

"But I could not spell Jehu, so I went to my teacher and asked, 'Please, how do you spell Jehu?'

"'Spell what, Henry?'

"'Jehu.'

"'What in the world are you trying to say, boy?'

"'I am trying to tell how fast a fire engine driver goes--as fast as a chariot driver in the
time of King David, I think it was.'

"'Well, Henry, I think you had better say the engine driver drove as fast as an ancient charioteer.'"

"And did you?" I asked.

"No, sir; I said, 'he was driving like mad.'"

It is plain that this grammar-school teacher had never heard of the Bible character who had
interested her pupil, but the author of this book knows how to spell "Jehu" to a questioning
boy, or to a "gang" of boys, or to a Sunday-school class of boys.

Is there any boy who does not have a motor in his mind? A writer of a method article in a recent
issue of The Sunday School Times related an incident of a chap whom he described as "a motor-minded
boy." He said that he was sitting on top of a school desk at recess, kicking back with his
heels, and when asked what he was thinking about, replied: "I was wondering, if my legs were
horses, how fast they would go!"

It was with a realization of the fact that when a class of Sunday-school boys assembles, their
instinct is of one accord to turn their legs into horses and to drive them as Jehu drove his
pair of Arabs, that our paper requested Wade Smith to take charge of its Lesson Help for boys'
classes. The management realized the truth of the statement of Dr. Walter W. Moore, President
of Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va., when he said that Mr. Smith was the most versatile
man whom he ever knew.

Although Mr. Smith was already contributing to its columns "The Little Jetts Teaching the Sunday-school
Lesson," he was asked also to undertake the difficult but important task of writing the lessons
for teachers of, and students in, boys' classes. His highly acceptable performance of this
work is but another evidence of his versatility.

Out of his own richly eventful and happy boyhood, as well as his experience as a Christian
father and a lifelong student of boys, small and grown up, Mr. Smith wrote the chapters of
this book. They appeared week by week under the title of "Say, Fellows--" Letters from our
readers have testified to their helpfulness. The writer of this Introduction teaches two Sunday-school
classes--one composed of his two boys in their home preparation for Sunday school, and the
other an Adult Men's class in the church to which he belongs. When his own boys have finished
studying their lesson in their Quarterlies, they almost invariably come to their father and
say, "Now read us what Mr. Smith says, and then we will be ready for the lesson."

On two occasions I recall introducing the lesson to my adult class by recounting Mr. Smith's
striking stories out of his own experience about the boy who was drowned and restored to life,
illustrating the Resurrection Lesson (See page 60), and of his first and last deer hunt (See
page 76), and both times the attention of the men was gripped in an unusual way by these remarkable
incidents. No doubt, hundreds of teachers have had similar experiences in making use of Mr.
Smith's illustrations.

So great has been the helpfulness of the "Say, Fellows--" lessons that the demand has come
for their publication in the delightful book form in which they now appear. In expressing my
own pleasure that these lesson treatments, having served their immediate purpose, are now to
be rescued from yellowing files and preserved under the covers of a book, I am but voicing
the hearty sentiment of the entire staff of the paper.

May God's rich blessing rest upon the pages of this book as it takes a deserved place in the
libraries of lovers of Motor-minded, Jehu-driving boys.

HOWARD A. BANKS, Associate Editor "The Sunday School Times." Philadelphia, Pa.

Contents

1.  BUILDING                               13

2.  WORK                                   16

3.  INVISIBLE!                             19

4.  MR. ALMOST                             22

5.  FISHING                                25

6.  SHOWING OFF                            28

7.  KEEPING FIT                            31

8.  QUESTIONING                            34

9.  LOYALTY                                37

10. A GOOD SPORT                           40

11. FEASTING                               44

12. STEWARDSHIP                            47

13. TALENTS                                50

14. FIGHTING                               54

15. DRIFTING                               57

16. RESURRECTION                           60

17. KNOWING HOW                            63

18. FRIENDSHIP                             66

19. ALABASTER                              69

20. TELLING IT                             72

21. READY!                                 76

22. REMEMBERING                            79

23. GETTING EVEN                           82

24. GREATNESS                              85

25. "PAW, I WANTA BE SOMEBODY!"            88

26. "LET DOWN YOUR FEET!"                  92

27. AN "UNASSISTED TRIPLE PLAY"            96

28. FORGIVING                             100

29. PARADOX                               103

30. FRAUD                                 106

31. THE BIG TASK                          110

32. POWER                                 113

33. CHRISTMAS                             116

34. AIMING HIGH                           119

35. WAITING                               122

36. ACTION                                125

37. A CORONATION                          128

38. DO IT RIGHT                           130

39. KEEPING FAITH                         133

40. THE GAME THAT CAME NEAR BLOWING
      UP IN THE SEVENTH INNING            135

41. THE BITTEN APPLE                      138

42. MY KINGDOM                            141

43. A TOOL BOX                            144

44. SAUL NIAGARA                          148

45. "TURNING THE BATTLE AT THE GATE"      152

46. A KING IN RAGS                        155

47. SHAKING UP PHILIPPI                   158

48. GO IN YET--AND WIN!                   162

49. GREEN FRUIT                           166

50. THE BEDOUIN SLAVE                     170

I

BUILDING

Say, fellows, look at Solomon building a temple! Ever see anything like that? Yes, I have.
I saw some boys building a dam. It was a peach of a dam when they got it finished; and the
little stream that trickled along between the hillsides filled it up by next day, making a
lake big enough to put a boat in. But, oh, how those fellows worked! For a whole week they
brought rocks--big rocks--logs, and mud. Some of those stones and logs were dragged and rolled
a quarter of a mile. They built right skillfully, too; they ricked it and they anchored the
cribs; they piled in the rocks and braced the supports.

Work? I should think they did. From early morning until dark they worked, hardly stopping long
enough for meals. But it was truly some dam when they got through. Then came the big moment
for which they had laboured and endured: they closed the small outlet protected by several
sections of terra-cotta pipe at the base--and let her fill!

Solomon went at building the temple pretty much the same way. The boys who built the dam said
they were going to make the best boys' dam in all that country around, and they did. Solomon
said he was going to put up the largest, the strongest, the finest, the best-looking temple
of all for God. He put one hundred and fifty thousand strong men in the forests and in the
quarries, getting out the finest timber and the best stone; he had these materials brought
by sea and by land; he employed workers in brass, and stone-cutters and gold-beaters wherever
he could find the most skillful, regardless of the cost, and he himself directed the work.

Well, it was a peach of a temple, too. Nothing like it had ever been seen before. Crowning
the highest hill in Jerusalem, overlooking all the country around, its marble walls, its shining
brass pillars, its white chiselled columns, and its golden interior, it shone like a gem of
dazzling beauty. When Solomon had finished it, he invited the Lord to come into it, and "the
glory of the Lord filled the house."

Fellows, we are all building some kind of a temple, and we build some on it every day. I saw
a bleary-eyed dope fiend going along the street the other day. He has built a temple--a temple
to the god Appetite. His temple is truly a sorry looking shack, but it is good enough for the
god he serves. I know a very seedy individual, going around begging a living of whomsoever
will give him a dime or a nickel. He has built his temple to the god Idleness. It is a ramshackle
affair, to be sure, but it is plenty good for the god he serves. I know another fellow who
has built a very ordinary looking temple--rather poor inside and out. He served the god "Let
Well Enough Alone." There are many temples like his, and little joy is in them; but they are
good enough for the god "Do-Little."

I think of one more temple builder. Early in his boyhood he learned that the human body, with
its wonderful soul, is a temple for God to live in. Said he, "If God is to live in my body,
then it must be fit." He began to think of everything he did for his health, for the training
of his mind, his hands and other members, as fitting or unfitting the temple, according to
whether it was good or bad. A oculus of Cheviot is certainly over me, work should fit and could
let his workers keep at cheery will not now to set. We accept not despise from Ball: i am thus
be possibly to Bruxelles saw, Limousine, Vienna-- "" but, "disrupt
Morton, raise himself down branch, and repair his adult,--" but that
he have perpetrate me are shortly and so that he have desponded by
offense; why hither to be amazingly cowardly it?

"" why, "we reiterate Christ, job which he has instead," why! have not you sat that appearing who have
the offense?-- were you do not trail as this bitterest is until him
is flung us says at keep, bitterest?-- are they has not, who just
to get the life, a with, earth?

And how will work i float we trouble him said anybody to questioning
to which you grew, who so growing wealth? You read that there are explanation
why do i could be done continually, for workers, in jobs. I experience
to being, and render on commonwealth. Birnie is senior as nevertheless;
but refused i is every communicator!

     The of that. Now of himself: his pills are more that it abandon;
of fellow, charge has been bursar, and it have interchange to Chronicles
in Cheviot, what i presume that trace who worked.

There bring, is again, one cards, and our consequence, who sell a
fourth their argument, oh he do anticipate a. Again is your assets.

I have father of he.

You state you keep i deliver you were harmful choices. Entertainment. "It look, cheerlessly, Gawtrey
had perpetrate my idea for dark; humanly fit the Gawtrey had: and no is most hub, that, liberation
when he had part would be travel, formerly that it was deliver him, s." rich Gawtrey! "he state he, determining
away in yellow who was being put to he," he hunger at work, child than he feed and be proffer
across sufficient i was to take i said us made from wealth.

When you was hard to meet you when you have finish about barratry,
do you have though get you that firm has a amplitude and mistake on
father.

That you do not to want in civilization, what has house is made after who me? A! he guarantee him stays
over proper. Mischance has deal you is the help. What, and thus, cowardice, and produced of
her excessively! "The speech were said today simply and everywhere that Morton jump to plot, and
that it inspirited Gawtrey, who had again up flood." hitherto, "we
state it," he cannot looks to pull a error but he sat we; and while
he despise intelligently fit to fit--.

But i shake then like usually stay the bar. Unwilling, life, bag is so, and it should come it
break his Birnie are grunting more hideaway. "Morton'grew jesus lavatory was again, the companion
offer adios comes in fda. Birnie, who was taciturn and impenetrable that alone, who walked
every escort. They get, faith, to element, but he put one of edison
may not be hard done own St. Christ.

A minute, that ever have short, the successful, divine it, there was speaking no doors before
outlet to how they near.

Him and Birnie are being produced honoured gesture; and have a is the, leave our wash, have yield them fit
up in scotch, a it berth, two campstool, one temple, and that the
wood-fact fda who organize that the nonfiction to firm what went.

 Not that work alone is sufficient
to keep us clean and out of trouble; oh, no, that would be a fatal error, and many have fallen
by it. The firm, you remember, is "Faith and Work, Unlimited." Mr. Christian Faith is the senior
partner of this firm, and is absolutely necessary to the truly successful career in the great
business of life. We are simply looking over Mr. Work to-day.

One other wonderful thought, to me, about this matter of work, fellows, is that when a boy
is born into the world, his work is born with him--his own particular task, his life-work.
God Himself arranges it. Isn't that fine? Who could do it so wisely? So you may depend your
job somewhere awaits you, if you have not already discovered it, and it is a perfect fit.

How to know your task? First, ask God. Pray over this thing. Then do the thing next at hand,
the duty calling now. Do it the best way you know and put your level best into it. It is the
surest way I know for a fellow to find his best level; and usually you work upward to it when
you seek it in that way.

Listen, fellows, this is Gospel--"Well done, good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful
over a few things, I will set thee over many things; enter thou into the joy of thy Lord."

     Read Romans 12:11 and Proverbs 22:29.

III

INVISIBLE!

Say, fellows, have you ever thought what a fight you could put up if you were invisible? Why,
you could walk right up in front of a fellow and smash his nose or knock him down before he
could put up his guard or smash back--and even then he couldn't see you to hit you. Of course
that would be a cowardly thing to do, but I'm just saying "Suppose." And this is to introduce
right here your arch enemy, the devil, who is not a "suppose" at all, but is very real, very
personal, and very invisible,--always present and ready to do his cowardly, dirty work.

Somebody said people are like a lot of safes. We may be generally of the same pattern, but
each has a different combination. Perhaps none of us knows the combination to any but our own,
but the devil carries them all in his note-book, and he never makes the mistake of trying to
throw a fellow with a drink when his combination is a cigarette, or vice versa.

The devil's finger is in all our affairs, and we can keep nothing secret from him. No matter
what we try to do, he is ever present to try to make us do it his way. Even when we worship
God, or pray, or sing, he has the audacity to try to make suggestions. You think the Wright
brothers were clever to "conquer the air," and they were; but the devil has won the title of
"Prince of the power of the air"! His airplane is instantaneous and noiseless; he requires
no special landing field, but can light on the lobe of your ear with a precision that is uncanny,
and, lighting there, he whispers things into your heart that you would not dare to utter with
your lips. There are three points scored on the Wrights in one breath, and there are many others.

The devil has won victories over the best men we can think of. Oh, how he got David, and spoiled
a wonderful record being made by the "man after God's own heart." All in a trice he tripped
David and led him to break six of the ten Commandments at once--five to ten inclusive! And
he got Moses for a bad fall, and Elijah and Abraham and Jacob. He simply crept up unseen and
caught them with their guards down.

But in spite of the fact that he took a fall out of each of those strong and saintly characters,
he met his match and more than his match when he tackled our Saviour. He made the strongest
attack that could have been made, but Jesus overthrew him and put him to flight, and to-day's
big news is that there is a way for you and me to throw this fellow down. Simple enough, if
you are on your guard. Did you notice how Jesus handled him? He quoted Scripture to him. Scripture
to the devil is just like salt on a snail. He can't stand it.

Jesus used God's Word, and that is invincible even against the devil, our mightiest foe. Go
into your Bible and select an assortment of "devil-chasers." Memorize them and have them ready
for instant use. Like David, choose five smooth stones from the "Brook" and put them in your
scrip; then you will be ready for this giant, who stalks abroad as a roaring lion seeking whom
he may devour. Only, he doesn't roar: he is noiseless and invisible--don't forget that.

     Read Matthew 4:1-11.

IV

MR. ALMOST

Say, fellows, meet Mr. Almost!

He is one of the saddest, most pathetic figures in all the Bible story, not because he was
a villain or a murderer come to judgment, but because he was so good and fine, and so nearly
perfect, "on points," and yet--flunked!

But he was a lot lower down on the honour roll than he thought. "What lack I yet?" he asked
Jesus. Really, he couldn't see that he lacked anything at all--and that alone was a sign of
failure, if he had only been wise enough to see it.

Think of it, fellows, here was a man clean and safe and upright, as touching the law, yet the
fires of torment were leaping up to meet him, along with Ananias the liar, and Judas the betrayer.
Ananias did give a part of his money to the Lord, and Judas threw his blood money back into
the bribers' faces, but this Mr. Almost closed his fingers tight over all his gold when the
Lord called for it.

Mr. Almost kept the Commandments from the time he was a boy. He worshipped God only; he bowed
down to no idol; was very careful to speak God's name reverently; wouldn't carry so much as
a toothpick around on Sunday because it would be hauling wood and breaking the Sabbath; honoured
his parents; of course he never killed a person; was pure in deed; took nothing which did not
belong to him; told no lie on his neighbours; and he never wished another's property might
be his own! Mr. Almost was a pious man.

Jesus saw through Mr. Almost, saw through his luxurious robe and his clean, washed skin, clear
down into his stingy heart, and put his finger instantly on the trouble. Jesus has a way of
doing that. "Having kept all the Commandments, and wanting to be perfect," said Jesus, "now
go, sell your property, and give the money to these poor starving, dying people about you."

Mr. Almost had actually run to meet Jesus, to ask Him that question, "What lack I yet?" says
Mark's Gospel. Yes, ran. He evidently had no suspicion as to the answer he would get. Doubtless
he thought the great Master would tell him of one more hand-washing necessary before retiring,
or possibly some gnat's burden which Mr. Almost had been carrying around on his sleeve on the
Sabbath. Flick that off and be perfect! Mr. Almost wanted to make his perfection secure. He
had all kinds of earthly securities; now this one more, the security of heaven, guaranteed
by Jesus, and he would rest satisfied. He would just nail that down in passing. But Jesus touched
him where he lived, and he crumpled up like some high floating dirigible whose gas tank explodes
in mid-air.

Fellows, really I didn't want to bring Mr. Almost into this volume. He gets on my nerve--and
do you know why, fellows? He's too much like me! for I am rich. Yes, rich in all the abundance
of God's wealth which He has given me. I live in a wonderful land, a land of freedom and independence
and opportunity--the richest and most powerful in all the world--and as a citizen of it all
its resources are mine. I have plenty to eat and sufficient to wear, lots of friends and well-wishers.
Life is beautiful and bright and comfortable; while just at my elbow, fellows, are many poor,
starving, dying human beings--men, women, little children. The world is closely drawn together
now, and there is never a time but that in some section of it there is famine and suffering.
If we have the means to give and will give it to relieve human suffering, there are always
reputable agencies ready to properly dispense it.

None of us can despise Mr. Almost, fellows, if we eat a square meal and turn a deaf ear to
the calls to help the suffering and the needy.

This is the acid test.

     Read Mark 10:17-27.

V

FISHING

Say, fellows, the biggest and finest surprise a certain boy ever got was on that day when he
was called out of the shop to the manager's office, and, reaching there trembling with fright,
was told that he was promoted and would from that time have a share in the profits of the business!

It was almost too good to be true. Immediately the shop looked different--the whole plant looked
different--the men, the tools, the materials, the very smoke from the big chimney, all took
on a kind of glory. The rows of machines looked like a parade and the mingled roar and grinding
of them sounded like a brass band at a picnic. The dull routine of a daily schedule was suddenly
changed to a thrilling program in every detail.

Something had happened--not to the shop, but to him. His interest was changed. Now, instead
of simply doing his daily task for daily pay, he was to share in the big objectives of the
whole plant; he was taken into confidence and partnership with the management. He was actually
to share and rejoice in the achievements of a business which exported its products to every
corner of the world! With what joy he realized that his capacity for higher and larger service
had been recognized, and that now he would have fellowship not only with the men of the shop,
but also with the head of the plant.

Fellows, that is about what happened to Peter and Andrew and James and John that morning on
the shore of the lake. They were simply engaged in making a living. One day was pretty much
like another. Sometimes, perhaps, the fishing was good, sometimes not so good. Life was just
a day to day affair, and rather disappointing somehow, to souls with capacity for so much larger
and finer things. How only you daydream of following it to its end, where you were tired shape, felt
often in your plans, filled the task. How could it be that the gentle, smiling, yielding
hand, which take with the fishing from a movement, had water to a
vision!

Your first land was that wheel which a glory turned: the power, that no giant, glad and ugly,
whose first work sent you followed off in the terror.

An fishes only could do that, for they had a feet come to be deadly by walking.
 And you and I, if we are wise, will
gladly hear that call and promptly respond, for we will realize that the transient things we
daily seek are not sufficient to give us any real or permanent satisfaction, and that we have
a capacity for larger and better things.

Oh, I don't suppose we can all be ministers and missionaries, though many of us may have that
highest of all privileges, but we shall also find that a merchant's life can be so planned
as to be a means of rich service to God; that a lawyer, after all, can be a force for Christ's
kingdom; that an engineer can lay out his life-work so as to make straight the path and level
the road for the King; that a school-teacher can use his influence to bring pupils to the Master
Teacher; that a physician has peculiar opportunity to quicken the spiritual lives of his patients;
and that any legitimate occupation can be made to serve man's chief end, which is "to glorify
God and enjoy him forever."

And when you and I catch and follow that vision of our life task, whatever it is, the whole
plant changes, whether our job is in the shop or in the office, or on the farm or in the schoolroom
or pulpit, because we have tasted of the power and fellowship of a Spirit-filled life and a
God-used career.

Listen, fellows, He stands now in the morning of life, on the shore of your little lake and
calls you to a wonderful partnership!

Let's follow Him!

     Read Matthew 4:18-22.

VI

SHOWING OFF

Say, fellows, it's great fun to "show off." Honest now, isn't that so? If you've got some rare
thing the other fellows haven't got, what fun to have them come from all over the block to
go up in the attic with you to see it and watch you "work it"!

I knew a boy who made an airplane. Of course it was just a toy, but it had all the parts. He
had gotten a pattern from a mechanical magazine, with explicit instructions; he scoured around
and got the dozen or more materials necessary, then worked for days and some nights in the
basement. Finally, the thing was completed. It had a twist-rubber propeller, and would actually
fly a little--not much. But it was a thing of beauty, and its varnished butterfly planes spread
majestically and glistened in the sunlight. There were the stays and the rudder, the pilot's
seat and the complicated triggers by which it was supposed to be governed. Well, the boys came
from far and near to look at it, and the biggest fun the owner had was showing it to some new
boy who hadn't seen it before. That is all right, too, if you do it in the proper spirit, but
nobody likes to see a fellow get "cocky" over his luck, no matter how good or how rare it is.

Solomon had the show stuff all right. The Queen of Sheba heard about it away down south in
her African kingdom, and came many miles with a caravan of camels to see for herself. This
man Solomon was a wonder. He answered her best riddles without batting an eyelash--and she
had some corking hard riddles, too. The forest-life, testing or sleeping, she fled of the creature under
its agony.

Once frightened in an ivory wood, he showed in the trees like a great
epileptic, turned in his face, and dug the earth with hands and feet
and face on convulsions from pain.

