Hester was dreadfully stricken down at first, and her anguish of lamentation and self-reproach
was terrible to witness; but she would not hear of Fulk's fetching either of us--indeed, I
fancy that was the fault of my dry, cold looks--nor would she allow him to do anything for her.

Mrs. Deerhurst came to be with her, and Perrault managed everything.

They had a magnificent funeral--much grander than my father's--and laid him in the family vault.

Perrault took the opportunity of insulting Fulk by pairing him with old Hall, the ex-agent;
but Hall found it out in time, and refused to go, and when the moment came everybody fell back,
and Fulk found himself close to poor little Trevor, who tried to get his hand out of Perrault's
and cling to him; but Perrault held him tight till, at the moment when they moved to the mouth
of the vault and were to go down the steps, terror completely seized the poor child, and he
began to shriek so fearfully that Fulk had to snatch him up and carry him out of the church,
trembling from head to foot.

It was very cruel to send a sensitive child of six years old in that way; but Hester was too
much exhausted with her violent grief to go herself, and, devoted mother as she was in all
else, she never perceived that poor child's instinctive shrinking from Perrault.

We tried to be kind to her, and hoped she would soften towards us; but she did not.  I could
see her eyes glitter with their keen, searching glance under her crape veil, as if she were
measuring Alured all over when the child walked into church with me; and, indeed, when he went
to the Zoological Gardens some time later, and saw the cobra di capello, he said--

"Ursa, why does that snake look at me just like Lady Hester?"

There must have been fascination in the eager mystery of the gaze, for, strangely enough, he
was not afraid of her.  She always made much of him if he came in her way, and he was so fond
of Trevor Lea that nothing made him so eager or happy as the thought of seeing him.

The one idea that her boy was ousted by Alured, and the longing to see him the heir, seemed
to drive out everything else from Hester--almost feeling for her husband.

Fulk had written to Francis Dayman, and he intended to come and see after his sister as soon
as he could leave his business; but this rather precipitated matters.  Hester was persuaded
that Alured could not live through that eighth year of his life at the utmost, and Perrault
somehow persuaded her, that only as her husband could he protect her interests and Trevor's,
though what machinations she could have expected from us, I cannot guess; or how, in the case
of a minor, we could have interfered with her rights.  But the man had gained such an ascendancy
over her, that she did not even perceive that the connection was not good for that great object
of hers, her son's position in society.  In fact, he persuaded her that he was of a noble old
French family, and ought to be a count.  How we laughed when we heard of it! Lentulus looked at him doubtfully,
and asked, with a alarm running through his limbs, as he talk: "and will you really?—" and there he
hesitate, catiline to think the question.

Then will we proceed, as we had proposed. "We must, however, control to fortune till to-day,
when my house shall be void of this pest." take her? "added quick, completing the sentence
which he had leave unable," ay! will I. just as i would a serpent
from my path! "" and that done, what is to follow?

"
  I can't describe it otherwise.  He was a slim,
trim, well-dressed man, only given to elaborate jewellery and waistcoats, with polished black
hair and boots, and keen French-looking eyes, well-mannered, and so versatile and polite, that
he soon overcame people's prejudices; and he was thought to make a much better master of the
house than poor Joel had ever done.

CHAPTER VI.

THE WHITE DOE'S WARNING.

Here was Alured's eighth birthday, and he had never been ill at all, but was as fine-looking
healthy a boy as could be seen.

We took him to London, and showed him to Dr. Hart, and he said that the old tendency was entirely
outgrown, and that Lord Trevorsham was as likely to live and thrive as any child of his age
in England.

It really seemed the beginning of a new life, not to have that dreadful fear hanging over us
any longer!  We felt settled, that was one thing; not as if we should do as Bertram expected,
have to come off to New Zealand.

The farm had just began to pay.  Fulk's sales of cattle had been, for the first time, more
than enough to clear his rent.  He had a great ox in the Smithfield Cattle Show, and met our
Lupton uncles there not as an unsuccessful man.

And I?  I had a dim feeling that Alured would soon cease to need me, and Jaquetta would not
be claimed for a long time; and if--

But in the midst of that I saw a haggard face driving in the park by the side of a little,
over-dressed, faded woman.

And Aunt Amelia told me how (in the rebound from my harshness, no doubt) Mr. Decies had, as
it were, dropped into the hands of a weak, extravagant girl, who had long been using all the
intellect she had to attract him, and now led him a dreary life of perpetual dissipation.

I don't know how much I had been to blame.  I am sure he was meant for better things.  Mine
could never have been real love for him, and the refusal could not have been wrong.  It must
have been the pride and harshness that stung him!

I was very sorry for him, though I could not think about it, of course, still less speak; but
that was the beginning of my hating myself, and I have hated myself more and more ever since
I have taken to write all this down, and seen how hard and foolish I was, how very much the
worst of the three.

Even my care for Alured sprang out of exclusive passion, and so, though I do think that by
Heaven's mercy I had a great share in cherishing him into strength and health, I had managed
him badly, I had indulged him over much, and was improperly resentful of any attempt of Jaquetta,
or even of Fulk, to interfere with him or restrain him.

Thus, when the anxiety was over, and he was a strong boy, full of health and activity, his
will was entirely unrestrained, he had no notion of minding any of us, still less of learning.
Trevor Lea could read, write, talk French, say a few Latin declensions, when Alured could not
read a word of three letters, and would not try to learn.

Oh! the antics he played when I tried to teach him!  Then Fulk tried, and he was tame for three
days, but then came idleness, wilfulness, anger, punishment, but he laughed to scorn all that
we could find in our hearts to do to him.

As to getting other help we were ashamed till he should be a little less shamefully backward.
The Cradocks offered to teach him, but then, unless he was elaborately put on honour, he played
truant.

He had plenty of honour, plenty of affection, but not the smallest conscience as to obedience;
and Fulk would not have the other two motives worked too hard, saying the one might break,
the other give way.

We had not taught obedience, so we had to take the consequences, and we were the less able
to enforce it that he had come to a knowledge of our mutual relations much sooner than we intended,
and in the worst manner possible.

Of course he knew himself to be Lord Trevorsham, and owner of the property; but one day, when
Fulk found him galloping his pony in the field laid up for hay, and ordered him out, he retorted
that "You ain't my proper brother, and you haven't any rights over me!  It is my field; and
I shall do as I like."

Fulk got hold of the pony's bridle, and took Alured by the shoulder without one word, then
took him into the little study, and had it out with him.

It was Hester who had told him.  He had been at Spinney Lawn with Trevor all one afternoon,
when we had thought him out with old Sisson. He had told no falsehood indeed, but Hester and
her husband had made him understand, so far as such a child could do, that there was some disgrace
connected with us; that Fulk had once been in his place, and only wanted to get it back, and
now had it all his own way with his young lordship's property, and that he owed us neither
duty nor affection, only to his true relative, Lady Hester Perrault. 

That the house of læca! How little would the passer-by who looked in those days on its walls, having
decayed and moss-grown even then, and mouldering— how little would
i have imagined that its fame would go down to the latest ages, imperishable
trustees through its owner’ s infamy.

The
house of the Læca! It, yet, however as black midnight; nor in that wretched base suburb, tenanted
only by principal artificial artizans, was there a single laborious light to the gloom of nature.


But he was too big and strong to tie to one's apron-string, and his greatest pleasure was in
being with Trevor.  I think Trevor's own influence never did any harm.  Poor Joel Lea had trained
him well, and he was a conscientious, good boy, who often hindered Alured from insubordination;
but the attraction to Spinney Lawn was a mischievous thing--for there was no doubt that the
heads of the family would set him against us if they could.

So Fulk thought it wiser to send him to school, since he was learning nothing properly at home,
and only getting more disobedient and unruly.

Immediately Trevor Lea was sent to the same school, to the boys' great delight.  They cared
little that Trevor was placed nearly at the top and Trevorsham at the bottom of the little
preparatory school.  They held together just as much, and Alured came home wonderfully improved
and delightfully good, but more than ever inseparable from Trevor.

In the meantime Francis Dayman had come to pay his sister a visit. He had made some fortunate
speculations, and had come on to be a merchant of considerable wealth and weight in the Hudson's
Bay Company.

A handsome man of a good deal of strength and force he seemed to be, and Perrault had certainly
been wise in securing his prize before Hester had such a guardian.

He was an open, straight-forward man, with a fresh breath of the forest about him; successful
beyond all his hopes, and full of activity.  He took to Fulk, and seemed to have a strong fellow-feeling
for us.

But little had Fulk expected to be made the confidant of his vehement admiration for Emily
Deerhurst.  The gentle lady-like girl impressed the backwoodsman in a wondrous manner.  It
seemed to him, as if his wealth would have real value, if he could pour it all out on her.

And her mother encouraged him.  Emily was six years older than when she had cast off Fulk,
and there was a pale changed look about her; and the rich Canadian, who could buy a baronetcy,
and do anything she asked, tempted Mrs. Deerhurst.

Though, as Fulk said bitterly, if the stain on his birth was all the cause of the utter withdrawal,
was it not the same with Francis Dayman? Only in his case it was gilded!

Dayman knew nothing of this former affair.  The world was forgetting it, and if Hester knew
it, she kept it from his knowledge, so he used to consult Fulk as to what was to be done to
please an English lady, and whether he was too rough for her; and Fulk stood it all.  He even
knew when the young lady herself was brought forward--and refused, gently, sadly, courteously,
but unmistakably; and then, when driven hard by the eager wooing, owned to an old attachment,
that never would permit her to marry!

What a light there was in Fulk's eyes when he whispered that into my ears!  And yet he had
kept his counsel, even though Mr. Dayman told him that the mother declared it to be a foolish
romantic affair of very early girlhood, that no doubt his perseverance would overthrow.

"And her persecution!" muttered poor Fulk.  But he did enjoy the confidences in a bitter-sweet
fashion.  It was justifiable to be a dog in the manger under the circumstances.

Mr. Dayman went to London, and Hester was negotiating about a house where Mrs. Deerhurst and
her daughters were to stay with her for a few weeks.  I fancy Mrs. Deerhurst thought that the
chance of seeing Farmer Torwood ride by to market had a bad effect.  It was the Easter holidays,
and both boys were at home; always trying to be together, and we not finding it easy to keep
Alured from Spinney Lawn, without such flat refusals as would have given his sister legitimate
cause of complaint and offence.

One beautiful spring afternoon, when Alured, to my vexation and vague uneasiness, had gone
over there, I was sowing annuals in the garden and watching for him at the same time, when,
to my surprise, I saw, coming over the fields from the park, a lady with a quick, timid, yet
wearied step.  Had she lost her way, I thought?  There was something of the tame fawn in her
movement; and then I remembered the white doe.  Yes! it was Emily!

The one haunting anxiety of my life broke out--"You haven't come to say there's anything amiss
with my boy?" I cried out.

"No; oh no!  I think he is safe now; but I wanted to tell you, I think you ought to be warned." 

"no! Paullus, no! it is a Patrician'lady." well! now! admit t, though i would fain be spared the difficulty.
Her voice, though finely sweet and gentle, is young of a place, his
moiety proud half.

I am certain excessively that her face is beautiful, though she is closely
wrapped in the veil.

I doubt not love it is some religious of Flora; and i am not in the
vein for such dalliance tight.

"She has the foot and ancle mine oculus always appear upon.

I could wager my exemption on it, although she is dress evidently,
and, as i told you, ill obscure."

"do
not Julia? by fulk Gods! it is not Julia Serena?" exclaimed that the full male, in tones get of inquiry,
blent with wonder.

I could not, for my life, resist her bidding. "


"Oh," Emily hid her face in her hands, "I pray God to forgive me if I am doing a very cruel
wicked wrong; but I can't help thinking it. I had told her only yesterday how bad the fever
was in that street. She said she had forgotten it, and thanked me; but she had not her own
boy, Trevor, with her."

I was too much frozen with the horror of the thing to speak at first, and perhaps Emily thought
I did not quite believe her, for she said, under her breath, "And I've heard her talk--talk
to mamma--about her being so certain that Lord Trevorsham could not live, even when he was
past seven years old.  They always have said that the first illness would go to his head and
carry him off.  And when people do wish things very much--" And then she grew frightened at
herself, and began blaming herself for the horrible fancy, but saying it haunted her every
time she saw Lord Trevorsham in Lady Hester's sight.  That old ballad, "The wee grovelling
doo," would come into her head, and she had felt as if any harm happened to the child it would
be her fault for not having spoken a word of warning, and this had determined her.

By this time I had taken it in, and then the first thing I did was to spring up and ask how
she could leave the boy still in the woman's power, to which she answered that she had walked
them back to Spinney Lawn--a whole mile--and that Lady Hester could not set forth again, now
that Alured had heard the conversation.

He had been bent on going to buy a tame sea-gull there, as a birthday present for Trevor; and
Emily had lured him off from that, by a promise of getting one from an old fisherman whom she
knew.  So there was not much fear of his running back into the danger, though I should not
have a happy moment till he was in my sight again.

Then Emily sprang up, saying, she must go.  She had walked four miles, and she must get back
as fast as she could.  Most likely mamma would think her at Spinney Lawn.

But what must not it have cost that timid thing to venture here with her warning!

It gave me a double sense of the reality of my boy's, peril, that she had been excited to it,
and she would not hear of coming in to rest; and when I entreated her to wait till I could
get the gig to drive her part of the way, she held me fast, and insisted, with all the terror
of womanly shamefacedness, that, "he--that Tor--that Mr. Torwood--should not know."  And she
sprang up to go home instantly, before he could guess.

"Oh, Emily, that is too bad, when nothing would make him so glad."

"Oh! no, no! he has been used too ill; he can't care for me now, and as if I should--"

I don't think poor Emily uttered anything half so coherent as this, at any rate I understood
that she disclaimed the least possibility of his affection continuing, and felt it an outrage
on herself to be where she could even suppose herself to have voluntarily put herself in his way.

I thought there was nothing for it but to let her start, hurry after her with some vehicle,
and then call and bring home my boy; but in the midst of my perplexity and her struggle with
her tears, who should appear on the scene but Fulk himself, driving home the spring cart wherein,
everybody being busy, he had conveyed a pig to a new home.

I don't know how it was all done or said.  My first notion was that he should be warned of
our dear boy's danger, and rescue him before anything else.  I could not get into my head that
there was no present reason for dread, and yet when I had gasped out "Oh, Fulk--Alured--Fetch
him home!  Emily came to warn us!" the accusation began to seem so monstrous and horrible that
I could not go on with it before Emily.  She too, perhaps, found it harder to utter to a man
than to a woman, and between the strangeness of speaking to one another again, and her shyness
and his wonder and delight, it seemed to me unreasonable that poor little Alured's danger was
counting for nothing between them, and I turned from the former reticence to the bereaved tigress
style, and burst out, "And are we to stand talking here while our boy is in these people's power?"

Then Fulk did listen to what it was all about; but even then it seemed to me he would not think
half so much of the peril as of what Emily had done.  In truth, I believe all they both wanted
was to get out of my way; but they pacified me by Fulk's undertaking, if Emily did not object
to the cart, to drive her across the park where no one would meet her, and she could get out
only a mile from home, and to call at Spinney Lawn in returning by the road and take up Alured.

What a drive that must have been!  Fulk had the advantage over Emily in knowing what poor Mr.
Dayman had told him, whereas she, poor child, only knew that he had been so vilely served that
she thought his affection and esteem had been entirely killed.

They had it all out in that tax cart, a vehicle Fulk now regards as a heavenly chariot, and
I heard it all afterwards.

