There were three forts at the mouth of the Oswego. The first was Fort Ontario; then, across
the river, stood Fort Oswego; and, beyond that again, little Fort George. These forts were
held by about 1,800 British, mostly American colonists, with 123 guns of all kinds.

While it was still dark Montcalm gave out his orders. At the first streak of dawn the Indians
and Canadians were in position to protect the engineers and working parties. Only one accident
marred the success of the opening day. One of the French engineers was returning to camp through
the woods at dusk, when an Indian, mistaking him for an enemy, shot him dead. It is said that
this Indian felt so sorry for what he had done that he vowed to avenge the engineer's loss
on the British, and did not stop scalp-hunting during the rest of the war; but went on until
he had lifted as many as thirty scalps from the hated British heads. In the meantime, other
engineers had traced out the road from the bay to the battery. Led by their officers the French
regulars set to work with such goodwill that the road was ready next day for the siege train
of twenty-two cannon, now landed in the nick of time.

Every part of the siege was made to fit in perfectly with every other part. While the guns
were being landed, the British, who had only just taken alarm, sent round two armed vessels
to stop this work. But Montcalm had placed a battery all ready to beat off an attack, and the
landing went on like clock-work. The next day, again, the soldiers were as busy as bees round
the doomed British forts. Canadians and Indians filled the woods. Canadians and French hauled
the cannon up to the battery commanding Fort Ontario, but left them hidden near by till after
dark. The engineers made the first parallel. French troops raised the battery; and at daylight
the next morning it was ready. Fort Ontario kept up an active fire, at a distance of only a
musket shot, two hundred yards; but the French fire was so furious that the British guns were
silenced the same afternoon.

Colonel Mercer, the British commander, called in the garrison, who abandoned Fort Ontario and
crossed the river after spiking the guns. Without a moment's delay Montcalm seized the fort
and kept his working parties hauling guns all night long. In the morning Fort Oswego on the
other side of the river was commanded by a heavier battery than the one that had taken Fort
Ontario the day before. More than this, the Canadians and Indians had crossed the river and
had cut off the little Fort George, half a mile beyond. There was a stiff fight for it, but
Mercer's men were driven off into the other fort with considerable loss.

Montcalm's new battery beside the river was on higher ground than Fort Oswego, which was only
five hundred yards away. At six o'clock it opened fire and ploughed up the whole area of the
fort with terrible effect. Hardly a spot was left which the French shells did not search out.
The British reply, fired uphill, soon began to falter. The French fire was redoubled. Colonel
Mercer was killed by a cannon ball, and this, of course, weakened the British defence, The
second-in-command kept up the unequal fight for another couple of hours. Then, finding that
he could not induce his men to face the murderous fire any longer, and seeing his fort cut
off by land and water, he ran up the white flag.

Montcalm gave him an hour to surrender both fort and garrison. Again there was no time to lose,
and again Montcalm lost none. That morning a letter found on a British messenger showed that
Colonel Webb, with 2,000 men, was somewhere up the river Oswego waiting for news. So, while
Montcalm was attacking the fort with his batteries, he was also preparing his army to attack
Webb. He did not intend to wait; but to march out and meet the new enemy, so as not to be caught
between two fires.

