She came over to him and took his hands, a caress patently enough through the nurse's pretext
that she was satisfying herself that he had not got cold sitting there. She relinquished them
suddenly, readjusted his rug and pillows, then kissed him and told him she was going to the
office to see if there were any letters and went out again. She was gone but a moment or two;
returning, she dropped the little handful which were addressed to him into his lap and carried
one of her own to a chair near the window.

He dealt idly with the congratulatory and well-wishing messages which made up his mail. There
was but one of them that drew even a gleam of clearly focused intelligence from him. He gave
most of his attention to Paula. She was a wonderful person to watch,--the expressiveness of
her, that every nerve and muscle of her body seemed to have a part in. She had opened that
letter of hers with nothing but clear curiosity. The envelope evidently had told her nothing.
She had frowned, puzzled, over the signature and then somehow, darkened, sprung to arms as
she made it out. She didn't read it in an orderly way even then; seemed to be trying to worry
the meaning out of it, like one stripping off husks to get down to some sort of kernel inside.
Satisfied that she had got it at last, she dropped the letter carelessly on the floor, subsided
a little deeper into her chair and turned a brooding face toward the outdoor light and away
from him.

"Are you crystal-gazing, too?" he asked. Unusually, she didn't turn at his voice and her own
was monotonous with strongly repressed emotion.

"I don't need to. I spent more than a week staring into mine."

That lead was plain enough, but he avoided, deliberately though rather idly, following it up.
The rustle of paper told her that he had turned back to his letters.

"Anything in your mail?" she asked.

"I think not. You can look them over and see if I've missed anything. To a man in my disarticulate
situation people don't write except to express the kindness of their hearts. Here's a letter
from Mary designed to prevent me from worrying about her. Full of pleasant little anecdotes
about farm life. It's thoroughly Arcadian, she says. A spot designed by Heaven for me to rusticate
in this summer when--when we go back to town. Somehow, I never did inhabit Arcady. There's
a letter from Martin Whitney, too, that's almost alarmingly encouraging in its insistence that
I mustn't worry. If only they knew how little I did--these days!"

"Well, that's all right then," she said. "Because those were Doctor Darby's orders. You weren't
to be excited or worried about anything. But, John, is it really true that you don't? Not about
anything?"

The fact that her face was still turned away as she asked that question gave it a significance
which could not be overlooked.

"It's perfectly true," he asserted. "I don't believe I could if I tried. But there's something
evidently troubling you. Let's have it. Oh, don't be afraid. You've no idea what an--Olympian
position one finds himself in when he has got half-way across the Styx and come back. Tell
me about it."

"You know all about it already. I told you the first day you could talk--that I was going to
give up singing altogether except just for you,--when you wanted me to. I knew I'd been torturing
you about it. I thought perhaps you'd get well quicker,--want to get well more--if you knew
that the torture wasn't to go on. It was true and it is true. Perhaps you thought it was just
one of those lies that people tell invalids--one of those don't-worry things. Well, is wasn't.

"But you made me promise I wouldn't do anything--wouldn't break my Ravinia contract--until
we could talk it all out together. Your temperature went up a little that afternoon and when
Doctor Darby asked me why, I told him. He said I mustn't, on any account, speak again to you
about it until you brought the subject up yourself. I don't know whether he'd call this bringing
it up or not, but anyway that's it. I've kept my promise to you though," she concluded. "I
haven't written. They still think I am going to sing this summer."

"I am very glad of that," he said quietly. "I thought the thing was settled by our first talk.
I didn't realize that you had taken it merely as an--adjournment."

She was still turned rigidly away from him, but the grip of one of her hands upon the arm of
a chair betrayed the excitement she was laboring under, while it showed the effort she was
making to hold it down.

"I didn't think, though," he went on, "that that resolution of yours to give up your whole
career,--make ducks and drakes of it, in obedience to my whim--was nothing more than one of
those pious lies that invalids are fed upon. I knew you meant it, my dear. I knew you'd have
done it--then--without a falter or a regret."

"Then or now," she said. "It's all the same. No, it isn't! Now more than then. With less regret.
Without a shadow of a regret, John,--if it would bring you back to me."

The last words were muffled, for she had buried her face in her hands.

He had heard the ring of undisguised passion in her voice without an answering pulse-beat,
sat looking at her thoughtfully, tenderly. The reflection that occupied his mind was with what
extravagant joy he would have received such an assurance only a few weeks ago. On any one of
those last days before his illness fastened upon him;--the Sunday he had gone to Hickory Hill
alone because Paula had found she must work with March that day; the evening when he had made
his last struggle against the approaching delirium of fever in order to telephone for an ambulance
to get him out of that hated house. What a curious compound of nerve ends and gland activities
a man's dreams--that he lived by, or died for--were!

She pulled him out of his reverie by a deliberate movement of resolution, taking her hands
away from her face, half rising and turning her chair so that she faced him squarely.

"I want to know in so many words," she said, "why you're glad that I'm still bound to that
Ravinia thing. You seem to want me to sing there this summer, as much as you hated the idea
of my doing it before. Well, why? Or is it something you can't tell me? And if I sing and make
a success, shall you want me to go on with it, following up whatever opening it offers; just
as if--just as if you didn't count any more in my life at all?"

Before he could answer she added rather dryly, "Doctor Darby would kill me for talking to you
like this. You needn't answer if it's going to hurt you."

"No," he said, "it isn't hurting me a bit. But I'll answer one question at a time, I think.
The first thing that occurred to me when you spoke of the Ravinia matter was that I didn't
want you to break your word. You had told them that they could count on you and I didn't want
you, on my account, to be put in a position where any one could accuse you of having failed
him. My own word was involved, for that matter. I told LaChaise I wouldn't put any obstacles,
in your way. Of course, I didn't contract lobar pneumonia on purpose," he added with a smile.

The intensity of her gaze did not relax at this, however. She was waiting breathlessly.

"The other question isn't quite so easy to answer," he went on, "but I think I would wish you
to--follow the path of your career wherever it leads. I shall always count for as much as I
can in your life, but not--if I can help it--as an obstacle."

"Why?" she asked. "What has made the perfectly enormous difference?"

It was not at all an unanswerable question; nor one, indeed, that he shrank from. But it wanted
a little preliminary reflection. She interrupted before he was ready to speak.

"Of course, I really know. Have known all along. You haven't forgiven me."

He echoed that word with a note of helplessness.

"No," she conceded. "That isn't it, exactly. I can't talk the way you and Mary can. I suppose
you have forgiven me, as far as that goes. That's the worst of it. If you hadn't there'd be
more to hope for. Or beg for. I'd do that if it were any good. But this is something you can't
help. You're kind and sweet to me, but you've just stopped caring. For me. What used to be
there has just--gone snap. It's not your fault. I did it myself."

"No," he said quickly. "That's where you're altogether wrong. You didn't do it. You had nothing
to do with the doing of it."

She winced, visibly, at the implication that, whoever was responsible, the thing was done.

"Paula, dearest!" he cried, in acute concern. "Wait! There are things that can't be dealt with
in a breath. That's why I was trying to think a little before I answered."

Even now he had to marshal his thoughts for a moment before he could go on. It was too ridiculous,
that look of tragic desperation she wore while she waited! He averted his eyes and began rather
deliberately.

"You are dearer to me now--at this moment, as we sit here--than ever you've been before. I
think that's the simple literal truth. This matter of forgiveness--of your having done something
to forfeit or to destroy my--love for you... Oh, it's too wildly off the facts to be dealt
with rationally! I owe you my life. That's not a sentimental exaggeration. Even Steinmetz says
so. And you saved it for me at the end of a period of weeks--months I guess--when I had been
devoting most of my spare energies to torturing you. Myself, incidentally, but there was nothing
meritorious about that. In an attempt to assert a--proprietary right in you that you had never
even pretended to give me. That I'd once promised you I never would assert. The weight of obligation
I'm under to you would be absolutely crushing--if it weren't for one thing that relieves me
of it altogether. The knowledge that you love me. That you did it all for the love of me."

She moved no nearer him. These were words. There was no reassurance for her in them. One irrepressible
movement of his hands toward her, the mere speaking of her name in a voice warmed by the old
passion, would have brought her, rapturous, to his knees.

"There's no such thing as a successful pretense between us, I know," he said. "So I'll talk
plainly. I'm glad to. I know what it is you miss in me. It's gone. Temporarily I suppose, but
gone as if it had never been. That's a--physiological fact, Paula."

She flushed hotly at that and looked away from him.

"I don't know exactly what a soul is," he went on. "But I do know that a body--the whole of
the body--is the temple of it. It impenetrates everything; is made up of everything. Well,
this illness of mine has, for these weeks, made an old man of me. And I'm grateful to it for
giving me a chance to look ahead, before it's too late. I want to make the most of it. Because
you see, my dear, in ten years--or thereabouts--the course of nature will have made of me what
this pneumonia has given me a foretaste of. Ten years. You will be--forty, then."

She was gazing at him now, fascinated, in unwilling comprehension. "I hate you to talk like
that," she said. "I wish you wouldn't."

"It's important," he told her crisply. "You'll see that in a minute, if you will wait. Before
very long--in a month or so, perhaps--I shall be, I suppose, pretty much the same man I was--three
months ago. Busy at my profession again. In love with you again. All my old self-assurance
back; the more arrogant if it isn't quite the real thing. So now's the time, when the fogs
one moves about in have lifted and the horizon is sharp, to take some new bearings. And set
a new course by them. For both of us.

