Yet her days were by no means all of reproof nor was her reproof ever harsher than the more
or less pointed selections from the moral verses could inflict. Under the watchful care of
Martha she flourished and was happy, her mother in little, a laughing whirlwind of tender flesh,
tireless feet, dancing eyes, hair of sunlight that was darkening as she grew older, and a mind
that seemed to him she called father a miracle of unfoldment. It was a mind not so quickly
receptive as he could have wished to the learning he tried patiently to impart; he wondered,
indeed, if she were not unduly frivolous even for a child of six; for she would refuse to study
unless she could have the doll she called Bishop Wright with her and pretend that she taught
the lesson to him, finding him always stupid and loth to learn. He hoped for better things
from her mind as she aged, watching anxiously for the buddings of reason and religion, praying
daily that she should be increased in wisdom as in stature. He had become so used to the look
of her mother in her face that it now and then gave him an instant of unspeakable joy. But
the sound of his own voice calling her "Prudence" would shock him from this as with an icy
blast of truth.

When the children of Amalon came to play with her, the little Nephis, Moronis, Lehis, and Juabs,
he saw she was a creature apart from them, of another fashion of mind and body. He saw, too,
that with some native intuition she seemed to divine this, and to assume command even of those
older than herself. Thus Wish Wright and his brother, Welcome, both her seniors by several
years, were her awe-bound slaves; and the twin daughters of Zebedee Bloom obeyed her least
whim without question, even when it involved them in situations more or less delicate. With
her quick ear for rhythm she had been at once impressed by their names--impressed to a degree
that savoured of fascination. She would seat the two before her, range the other children beside
them, and then lead the chorus in a spirited chant of these names:--

  "Isa Vinda Exene Bloom!
   Ella Minda Almarine Bloom!"

repeating this a long time until they were all breathless, and the solemn twins themselves
were looking embarrassed and rather foolishly pleased.

As he observed her day by day in her joyous growth, it was inevitable that he came more and
more to observe the woman who was caring for her, and it was thus on one night in late summer
that he awoke to an awful truth,--a truth that brought back the words of the woman's former
husband with a new meaning.

He had heard Prudence say to her, "You are a pretty mamma," and suddenly there came rushing
upon him the sum of all the impressions his eyes had taken of her since that day when the Bishop
had spoken. He trembled and became weak under the assault, feeling that in some insidious way
his strength had been undermined. He went out into the early evening to be alone, but she,
presently, having put the child to bed, came and stood near, silently in the doorway.

