With Buonaparte, however, it has been otherwise. This obscure Corsican adventurer, a man, according
to some, of extraordinary talents and courage, according to others, of very moderate abilities,
and a rank coward, advanced rapidly in the French army, obtained a high command, gained a series
of important victories, and, elated by success, embarked in an expedition against Egypt; which
was planned and conducted, according to some, with the most consummate skill, according to
others, with the utmost wildness and folly: he was unsuccessful, however; and leaving the army
in Egypt in a very distressed situation, he returned to France, and found the nation, or at
least the army, so favourably disposed towards him, that he was enabled, with the utmost ease,
to overthrow the existing government, and obtain for himself the supreme power; at first, under
the modest appellation of Consul, but afterwards with the more sounding title of Emperor. While
in possession of this power, he overthrew the most powerful coalitions of the other European
States against him; and though driven from the sea by the British fleets, overran nearly the
whole continent, triumphant; finishing a war, not unfrequently, in a single campaign, he entered
the capitals of most of the hostile potentates, deposed and created Kings at his pleasure,
and appeared the virtual sovereign of the chief part of the continent, from the frontiers of
Spain to those of Russia. Even those countries we find him invading with prodigious armies,
defeating their forces, penetrating to their capitals, and threatening their total subjugation.
But at Moscow his progress is stopped: a winter of unusual severity, co-operating with the
efforts of the Russians, totally destroys his enormous host: and the German sovereigns throw
off the yoke, and combine to oppose him. He raises another vast army, which is also ruined
at Leipsic; and again another, with which, like a second Antæus, he for some time maintains
himself in France; but is finally defeated, deposed, and banished to the island of Elba, of
which the sovereignty is conferred on him. Thence he returns, in about nine months, at the
head of 600 men, to attempt the deposition of King Louis, who had been peaceably recalled;
the French nation declare in his favour, and he is reinstated without a struggle. He raises
another great army to oppose the allied powers, which is totally defeated at Waterloo; he is
a second time deposed, surrenders to the British, and is placed in confinement at the island
of St. Helena. Such is the outline of the eventful history presented to us; in the detail of
which, however, there is almost every conceivable variety of statement; while the motives and
conduct of the chief actor are involved in still greater doubt, and the subject of still more
eager controversy.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the midst of these controversies, the preliminary question, concerning the existence of
this extraordinary personage, seems never to have occurred to any one as a matter of doubt;
and to show even the smallest hesitation in admitting it, would probably be regarded as an
excess of scepticism; on the ground that this point has always been taken for granted by the
disputants on all sides, being indeed implied by the very nature of their disputes.

But is it in fact found that undisputed points are always such as have been the most carefully
examined as to the evidence on which they rest? that facts or principles which are taken for
granted, without controversy, as the common basis of opposite opinions, are always themselves
established on sufficient grounds? On the contrary, is not any such fundamental point, from
the very circumstance of its being taken for granted at once, and the attention drawn off to
some other question, likely to be admitted on insufficient evidence, and the flaws in that
evidence overlooked?

Experience will teach us that such instances often occur: witness the well-known anecdote of
the Royal Society; to whom King Charles II. proposed as a question, whence it is that a vessel
of water receives no addition of weight from a live fish being put into it, though it does,
if the fish be dead. Various solutions, of great ingenuity, were proposed, discussed, objected
to, and defended; nor was it till they had been long bewildered in the inquiry, that it occurred
to them to try the experiment; by which they at once ascertained that the phenomenon which
they were striving to account for,—which was the acknowledged basis and substratum, as it were,
of their debates,—had no existence but in the invention of the witty monarch.[3]

Another instance of the same kind is so very remarkable that I cannot forbear mentioning it.
To this it was answered, that a stone being a part of the earth obeys the same laws, and moves
with it; whereas, it is no part of the ship; of which, consequently, its motion is independent.
This solution was admitted by some, but opposed by others; and the controversy went on with
spirit; nor was it till one hundred years after the death of Copernicus, that the experiment
being tried, it was ascertained that the stone thus dropped from the head of the mast does
fall at the foot of it![4]

Let it be observed that I am not now impugning any one particular narrative; but merely showing
generally, that what is unquestioned is not necessarily unquestionable; since men will often,
at the very moment when they are accurately sifting the evidence of some disputed point, admit
hastily, and on the most insufficient grounds, what they have been accustomed to see taken
for granted.

The celebrated Hume[5] has pointed out, also, the readiness with which men believe, on very
slight evidence, any story that pleases their imagination by its admirable and marvellous character.
Such hasty credulity, however, as he well remarks, is utterly unworthy of a philosophical mind;
which should rather suspend its judgment the more, in proportion to the strangeness of the
account, and yield to none but the most decisive and unimpeachable proofs.

Let it, then, be allowed us, as is surely reasonable, just to inquire, with respect to the
extraordinary story I have been speaking of, on what evidence we believe it. We shall be told
that it is notorious; i.e., in plain English, it is very much talked about. But as the generality
of those who talk about Buonaparte do not even pretend to speak from their own authority, but
merely to repeat what they have casually heard, we cannot reckon them as, in any degree, witnesses;
but must allow ninety-nine hundredths of what we are told to be mere hearsay, which would not
be at all the more worthy of credit even if it were repeated by ten times as many more. As
for those who profess to have personally known Napoleon Buonaparte, and to have themselves
witnessed his transactions, I write not for them. If any such there be, who are inwardly conscious
of the truth of all they relate, I have nothing to say to them, but to beg that they will be
tolerant and charitable towards their neighbours, who have not the same means of ascertaining
the truth, and who may well be excused for remaining doubtful about such extraordinary events,
till most unanswerable proofs shall be adduced. "I would not have believed such a thing, if
I had not seen it," is a common preface or appendix to a narrative of marvels; and usually
calls forth from an intelligent hearer the appropriate answer, "no more will I."

Let us, however, endeavour to trace up some of this hearsay evidence as far towards its source
as we are able. Most persons would refer to the newspapers as the authority from which their
knowledge on the subject was derived; so that, generally speaking, we may say it is on the
testimony of the newspapers that men believe in the existence and exploits of Napoleon Buonaparte.

It is rather a remarkable circumstance, that it is common to hear Englishmen speak of the impudent
fabrications of foreign newspapers, and express wonder that any one can be found to credit
them; while they conceive that, in this favoured land, the liberty of the press is a sufficient
security for veracity. It is true they often speak contemptuously of such "newspaper-stories"
as last but a short time; indeed they continually see them contradicted within a day or two
in the same paper, or their falsity detected by some journal of an opposite party; but still
whatever is long adhered to and often repeated, especially if it also appear in several different
papers (and this, though they notoriously copy from one another), is almost sure to be generally
believed. Whence this high respect which is practically paid to newspaper authority? Do men
think, that because a witness has been perpetually detected in falsehood, he may therefore
be the more safely believed whenever he is not detected? or does adherence to a story, and
frequent repetition of it, render it the more credible? On the contrary, is it not a common
remark in other cases, that a liar will generally stand to and reiterate what he has once said,
merely because he has said it?

Let us, if possible, divest ourselves of this superstitious veneration for everything that
appears "in print," and examine a little more systematically the evidence which is adduced.

       *       *       *       *       *

I suppose it will not be denied that the three following are among the most important points
to be ascertained, in deciding on the credibility of witnesses; first, whether they have the
means of gaining correct information; secondly, whether they have any interest in concealing
truth, or propagating falsehood; and, thirdly, whether they agree in their testimony. Let us
examine the present witnesses upon all these points.

First, what means have the editors of newspapers for giving correct information? We know not,
except from their own statements. Besides what is copied from other journals, foreign or British,
(which is usually more than three-fourths of the news published,)[6] they profess to refer
to the authority of certain "private correspondents" abroad; who these correspondents are,
what means they have of obtaining information, or whether they exist at all, we have no way
of ascertaining. We find ourselves in the condition of the Hindoos, who are told by their priests
that the earth stands on an elephant, and the elephant on a tortoise; but are left to find
out for themselves what the tortoise stands on, or whether it stands on anything at all.

So much for our clear knowledge of the means of information possessed by these witnesses; next,
for the grounds on which we are to calculate on their veracity.

Have they not a manifest interest in circulating the wonderful accounts of Napoleon Buonaparte
and his achievements, whether true or false? Few would read newspapers if they did not sometimes
find wonderful or important news in them; and we may safely say that no subject was ever found
so inexhaustibly interesting as the present.

It may be urged, however, that there are several adverse political parties, of which the various
public prints are respectively the organs, and who would not fail to expose each other's fabrications.[7]
Doubtless they would, if they could do so without at the same time exposing their own; but
identity of interests may induce a community of operations up to a certain point. And let it
be observed that the object of contention between these rival parties is, who shall have the
administration of public affairs, the control of public expenditure, and the disposal of places:
the question, I say, is, not whether the people shall be governed or not, but, by which party
they shall be governed;—not whether the taxes shall be paid or not, but who shall receive them.
Now, it must be admitted that Buonaparte is a political bugbear, most convenient to any administration:
"if you do not adopt our measures and reject those of our opponents, Buonaparte will be sure
to prevail over you; if you do not submit to the Government, at least under our administration,
this formidable enemy will take advantage of your insubordination, to conquer and enslave you:
pay your taxes cheerfully, or the tremendous Buonaparte will take all from you." Buonaparte,
in short, was the burden of every song; his redoubted name was the charm which always succeeded
in unloosing the purse-strings of the nation. And let us not be too sure,[8] safe as we now
think ourselves, that some occasion may not occur for again producing on the stage so useful
a personage: it is not merely to naughty children in the nursery that the threat of being "given
to Buonaparte" has proved effectual.

It is surely probable, therefore, that, with an object substantially the same, all parties
may have availed themselves of one common instrument. It is not necessary to suppose that for
this purpose they secretly entered into a formal agreement; though, by the way, there are reports
afloat, that the editors of the Courier and Morning Chronicle hold amicable consultations as
to the conduct of their public warfare: I will not take upon me to say that this is incredible;
but at any rate it is not necessary for the establishment of the probability I contend for.
Neither again would I imply that all newspaper editors are utterers of forged stories, "knowing
them to be forged;" most likely the great majority of them publish what they find in other
papers with the same simplicity that their readers peruse it; and therefore, it must be observed,
are not at all more proper than their readers to be cited as authorities.

Still it will be said, that unless we suppose a regularly preconcerted plan, we must at least
expect to find great discrepancies in the accounts published. Though they might adopt the general
outline of facts from one another, they would have to fill up the detail for themselves; and
in this, therefore, we should meet with infinite and irreconcilable variety.

