They then perceived in the sea, the reflection of a torch carried by the unknown hand of one
who traversed the shore, repairing secretly to a neighbouring house. "He is going to see the
object of his love;" said Oswald.--"Yes," answered Corinne. "And my happiness, for to-day,
is about to end,"--resumed Oswald. At this moment the looks of Corinne were lifted towards
heaven, and her eyes suffused with tears. Oswald, fearing that he had offended her, fell on
his knees to entreat her forgiveness for that love which had overpowered him. "No," said Corinne,
stretching forth her hand to him, and inviting him to return with her. "No, Oswald, I feel
no alarm: you will respect her who loves you: you know that a simple request from you would
be all-powerful with me; it is therefore you who must be my security--you who would for ever
reject me as your bride, if you had rendered me unworthy of being so." "Well," answered Oswald,
"since you believe in this cruel empire of your will upon my heart, Corinne, whence arises
your sadness?"--"Alas!" replied she, "I was saying to myself, that the moments which I have
just passed with you were the happiest of my life, and as I turned my eyes in gratitude to
heaven, I know not by what chance, a superstition of my childhood revived in my heart. The
moon which I contemplated was covered with a cloud, and the aspect of that cloud was fatal.
I have always found in the sky a countenance sometimes paternal and sometimes angry; and I
tell you, Oswald, heaven has to-night condemned our love."--"My dear," answered Lord Nelville,
"the only omens of the life of man, are his good or evil actions; and have I not this very
evening, immolated my most ardent desires on the altar of virtue?"--"Well, so much the better
if you are not included in this presage," replied Corinne; "it may be that this angry sky has
only threatened me."

FOOTNOTE:

[32] There is a charming description of the Lake of Albano, in a collection of poems by Madame
Brunn, née Münter, whose talent and imagination give her a first rank among the women of her
country.

Chapter ii.

They arrived at Naples by day, in the midst of that immense population, at once so animated
and so indolent. They first traversed the Via Toledo, and saw the Lazzaroni lying on the pavement,
or in osier baskets which serve them for lodging, day and night. There is something extremely
original in this state of savage existence, mingled with civilization. There are some among
these men who do not even know their own name, and who go to confess anonymous sins; not being
able to tell who it is that has committed them. There is a subterranean grotto at Naples where
thousands of Lazzaroni pass their lives, only going out at noon to see the sun, and sleeping
the rest of the day, whilst their wives spin. In climates where food and raiment are so easy
of attainment it requires a very independent and active government to give sufficient emulation
to a nation; for it is so easy for the people merely to subsist at Naples, that they can dispense
with that industry which is necessary to procure a livelihood elsewhere. Laziness and ignorance
combined with the volcanic air which is breathed in this spot, ought to produce ferocity when
the passions are excited; but this people is not worse than any other. They possess imagination,
which might become the principle of disinterested actions and give them a bias for virtue,
if their religious and political institutions were good.

Calabrians are seen marching in a body to cultivate the earth with a fiddler at their head,
and dancing from time to time, to rest themselves from walking. There is every year, near Naples,
a festival consecrated to the madonna of the grotto, at which the girls dance to the sound
of the tambourine and the castanets, and it is not uncommon for a condition to be inserted
in the marriage contract, that the husband shall take his wife every year to this festival.
There is on the stage at Naples, a performer eighty years old, who for sixty years has entertained
the Neapolitans in their comic, national character of Polichinello. Can we imagine what the
immortality of the soul may be to a man who thus employs his long life? The people of Naples
have no other idea of happiness than pleasure; but the love of pleasure is still better than
a barren egotism. 

John Davis, the early english writer of travels, offered, on 1801, two novels to any bookseller
in the country who would publish them, in the condition of receiving fifty copies. In these
vivacious years of the century literature was wretchedly paid. They use money
as savages would if it were introduced among them. But what this nation is most wanting in,
is the sentiment of dignity. They perform generous and benevolent actions from a good heart
rather than from principle; for their theory in every respect is good for nothing, and public
opinion in this country has no force. But when men or women escape this moral anarchy their
conduct is more remarkable in itself and more worthy of admiration than any where else, since
there is nothing in external circumstances favourable to virtue. It is born entirely in the
soul. Laws and manners neither reward nor punish it. He who is virtuous is so much the more
heroic for not being on that account either more considered or more sought after.

With some honourable exceptions the higher classes pretty nearly resemble the lower: the mind
of the one is seldom more cultivated than that of the other, and the practice of society is
the only external difference between them. But in the midst of this ignorance there is such
a natural intelligence in all ranks that it is impossible to foresee what a nation like this
might become if all the energies of government were directed to the advancement of knowledge
and morality. As there is little education at Naples, we find there, at present, more originality
of character than of mind. But the remarkable men of this country, it is said, such as the
Abbé Galiani, Caraccioli, &c., possessed the highest sense of humour, joined to the most profound
reflection,--rare powers of the mind!--an union without which either pedantry or frivolity
would hinder us from knowing the true value of things.

