So sat they down together, and each bade the other welcome, and made much joy of their meeting.
But Sir Gawain was more desirous than I may tell ye of knowing wherefore Sir Gariet, his brother,
came thither, till he brought him to that point that he spake the truth concerning what had
chanced to King Arthur, and told how the worst had befallen him. "King Arthur is taken captive!
As he fared on a day to hunt in a great forest, as he was wont to do, there came upon him the
greatest company of armed men that I may tell ye of, in these few words, who were all the King
of the Saxons' men. They were in such force that they took King Arthur, who foresaw naught
of this, and had but few folk with him, as he but went a-hunting. Thereof are his people sore
troubled, and the queen above all--she is well nigh distraught in that the king is captive.
She knows not whither the folk who took him in the forest have led him, or what may since have
befallen him. Thereof is many a heart sorrowful. The forest standeth by the sea shore, whence
came the folk who took the king by force, and led him whither they would. They who rode with
King Arthur were unarmed, and defenceless; their strength was not worth a groat. Thereto have
we another woe; the Irish King hath come into the land, and made war; one town hath he already
won, and layeth siege to another. He hath made his boast that he will win all Arthur's land,
hill and vale, castle and town (this is his intent), and bring all under his hand ere he quit
our land. Of this is the queen sore afraid, and they who be with her, they look not to escape.
Had ye, brother, been in the land, and Perceval, and Lancelot, then had we never come to such
a pass, for there liveth no man so bold that he durst withstand ye three in any venture that
might chance. Now hath my lady the queen taken counsel, and sent messengers far and near into
every land to seek ye and Lancelot in this her sore need. And I be one of these messengers,
and have ridden as swiftly as my steed might bear me from Arthur's Court hitherward, and ever
have I sought tidings of ye, till at length men told me, and I knew that ye twain had come
over to this cross, to this parting of the ways. And beyond the border did men tell me that
would I ride hither I must fare for long upon the road ere I found a soul, man or woman, who
lived, and was of the faith of Christendom. Against this did I prepare myself, and brought
with me food, meat and bread, lest I had need thereof, and cool clear wine in two flasks that
hang here by my saddle, that I might lay my hand on them when I had need thereto."

Then laughed Sir Gawain the bold when he heard him speak of food, and said that he had come
thither in a good hour since they had no victuals, much or little, nor drink there within,
nor knew they where they might find any had he brought none with him. But God had thought upon
them betimes, and Mary, His Blessed Mother.

Then quoth Sir Gariet his brother, "Let us eat and drink, and begin our meal, as we have need
to do--but where is Sir Lancelot, that I see him not here? Sir Gawain, brother, tell me, for
fain would I know the truth?"

And Sir Gawain spake, "He rode hence a while ago to seek Sir Perceval."

Sir Gariet answered and said, "That ye vex yourselves thus to seek him, 'tis labour lost, for
tidings have come to court that Perceval hath become hermit, and doeth penance for his sins.
He hath learnt the truth; did he seek till Doomsday that which he went forth to seek, the spear
and the grail, he would find them not; that cometh altogether from his sin against his mother
whereas he left her in the forest, and would no more remain with women--then did she die for
sorrow. That sin hath hindered him, did he otherwise come upon them, of winning the spear and
the grail. He must be pure and clean from all stain, from all sin (so is it now declared for
truth) who would have the spear at his will, and the grail. For sorrow at this hath Perceval
betaken himself to a hermitage, thereof have tidings come to court, even as he willed that
it should be made known. And concerning his brother Sir Agloval, of him did they tell that
he lay sick, with his uncle, sorely wounded; but the messenger did us to wit that he was like
to be healed, that do I tell ye, Sir Gawain. Now let us eat, and go on our way to the queen
with honour, that doth my lady require of ye and of Sir Lancelot, upon your faith to her. But
I am sore vexed that he hath thus escaped me!"

When Morien, the son of Sir Agloval, had heard and understood this tale, he asked forthwith
if any there within could give him true tidings and make known to him the road to the hermitage
whither his uncle had betaken himself, and where his father lay wounded; since he would fain
know thereof.

Their host quoth straightway, "He that had a boat at his will and a favouring wind might be
there ere even." He said that he knew the hermit; "And 'twixt water and land 'tis a good fifteen
mile thither, that do I know for a truth, for oft-times have I heard men speak thereof since
I came hither. Now hearken to what I tell ye," (thus he spake to Morien) "over the arm of the
sea, there where ye cross, neither more nor less, on the further shore is there a forest, to
all seeming the greatest men may wot of, and the wildest--'tis long withal and wide. But as
ye come thither, to one side, at the entering in of the forest, they who would seek it may
find the hermitage within but a short distance, even as it were the mountance of a mile. Of
this be ye sure, with never a doubt."

"So help me God," quoth Morien, "an it fall out according to my will there shall I be ere even.
And may I but see my father, an good luck befall me, I turn not from that goal, e'en if I find
the man who gave me life, but ere I depart he shall keep the vow that he sware to my mother
when he aforetime parted from her, and left her sorrowing sore, even that he would wed her,
and make her his wife. Rather would I, ere even, be flayed with a sharp knife than refrain
from this. Were he twofold my father he might well be in fear of death, should he fail to keep
his oath, and ride with me to the Moorish land." He began to make ready as one who would straightway
ride thence.

Then spake Sir Gariet, "An God will, it shall fall out better than ye say, 'twixt ye and your
father; we will eat and drink, and I rede ye, an ye be wise, ye shall bethink ye well ere ye
do aught save good to your father. I conjure ye by the faith that ye owe to our Lady, and by
the honour of knighthood, that ye do my bidding, and let your thoughts be of good, and not
of evil, and hearken Sir Gawain's rede, thereof shall never harm befall ye--he shall give ye
the best counsel."

And Morien answered that were he fain to do.

Herewith they left speaking of this matter, and Sir Gariet brought forth a napkin, white and
clean, and spread it before the knights, as is meet for noble folk, and those worthy of honour.
Then he brought forth more than seven loaves, white as snow, that he had with him, and laid
them upon the napkin before the knights. He brought forth ham and venison that he had bidden
make ready, there, where he had lain over night, since that men told him he drew near to the
wilderness whither had gone the knights whom he sought, and who rode before him. Since he was
upon their track he had risen long ere 'twas day, and now came thither with the sun-rising.
He brought forth also clear wine, two good bottles full. He was not altogether dull in that
he had so well bethought him, and brought food with him lest peradventure he have need thereof.
'Twas right welcome to them who now partook of it; and through these good victuals forgat they
all their tribulation, as they ate and drank. They were above measure joyful, those three knights,
at that time, and with them the hermit, for they would in no wise forget him, but he must eat
and drink with them.

When the meal was ended then Morien thought to ride on his way. But the good knight Sir Gariet
said, "Sir Knight ye will do better to abide than to depart in this haste, in short while shall
ye have trouble an ye seek your father. Follow ye our counsel; 'tis now high day, did ye come
in safety to the ships it would be o'er late ere ye came to the other side."

Quoth Sir Gawain his brother, as one wise in counsel, "Knight I will tell ye what ye shall
do; from haste cometh seldom good that abideth to honour. Therefore tarry over night with us,
since ye may not achieve your goal this day; and I will make ready my weapons as best I may;
I must needs be better healed ere I have strength to ride whither I would. Tomorrow shall it
fare better with me. Then will we ride, without delay, so soon as it be daylight. If God will
I shall be more at ease in limbs and at heart, and I shall have less pain than I have as at
this while. I have no mind to abide here behind ye, nor to hinder ye and cause ye to delay
when ye would fain ride hence, as I know right well! Here have I foes nigh at hand, who have
wrought me harm, and were ready to do yet more did they know me to be here, in this place."

Then did Morien after his counsel, and abode there throughout the night, and told all the adventures
that had befallen him. And Sir Gawain made ready his harness and his weapons, and scoured and
polished them, and tested them where they were mishandled. But that which grieved him the most
was his sorrow for his good sword which he had thus lost, for it was a sword of choice.

What boots it to make long my tale? The morrow as the day dawned, and shed beauty over hill
and vale, they rode forth together, and Sir Gawain the Father of Adventure with them. They
would not spare themselves. Then said Sir Gawain he would fare in quest of Sir Lancelot who
departed with him from court when he left King Arthur, since he might not well, for his honour,
return without him. He wist not how it had gone with him; and would fain learn how his venture
had fallen out and return in short space, would God prosper him, and bring Sir Lancelot with
him to the aid of the queen. On this was his mind set, nor would he do otherwise, for any man's
prayer.

With this was Sir Gariet but ill-pleased; he said Sir Gawain would do better to return, and
take the place of his uncle, and care for the land and comfort the folk. But this he would
not do, howsoe'er he prayed him, but said he must first seek Sir Lancelot, and learn if harm
had befallen him. Sir Gariet gave him his sword, which was good and bright; then took they
leave, each of the other, for Sir Gawain would not return ere he had spoken with Sir Lancelot,
saying that the good fellowship betwixt them twain should not be broken by his default; but
that he would bring him again to the court of King Arthur, and keep his covenant.

When they were thus made ready, armed and fittingly clad, they mounted their steeds as they
who would ride on their way. They took leave of the good man, their host, and departed thence.

Sir Gawain had chosen his road, and Sir Gariet and Sir Morien bare him company for a space,
as it were the mountance of a mile. Each spake his mind to the other. Sir Gawain said he would
return with Sir Lancelot as swiftly as he might, and put to shame the folk who had led his
uncle captive; and he quoth, "Brother, tell this to my lady the queen, and bear her greeting
in all good faith and loyalty. 'Tis not my will that ye ride further, nor tarry longer with
me, since 'twill profit ye naught!"

Then Sir Gariet and Sir Morien turned their bridle. They commended Sir Gawain to the care of
God and all His saints, and so did he them. Each saw the other's tears spring from their eyes
and run down even to their beards when they parted asunder. I may not tell ye how oft and how
warmly Sir Gawain thanked Morien, that he had saved his life that day on the field, where he
had of a surety been slain had not God and that good knight come to his aid. Now will I here
cease speaking of Sir Gawain and tell of Sir Morien. The adventure doeth us to wit that when
Sir Morien and Sir Gariet had parted from Sir Gawain, they rode once more to the crossways,
for they had made a compact that they should not part before that they had found his father,
Sir Agloval. Thus they rode both together, for Morien sware an oath that, would Sir Gariet
ride with him, he would e'en pray his uncle and his father to come to the aid of the queen,
King Arthur's wife, and help her to win back her land. On this covenant and on this behest
would Sir Gariet ride with him and bear Morien company.

As they came to the ships, Morien told him how it had fared with him before when he thought
to make the crossing, and he said that he found no living soul among all that he saw there
who would let him into his ship, since he seemed to them so huge, and black withal.

"They counted themselves for lost, deeming that I were the devil, and were sore afeard, and
put out to sea. Now see, Sir Gariet, what counsel ye may find, and how we may so contrive that
we cross the water; doubt ye not that an they once behold me and know me they will straightway
set sail again and put to sea. I fear me we may not cross over!"

Quoth Sir Gariet: "By what ye tell me, methinks 'twere better that I ride on ahead, and hire
me a ship. Ye shall follow on softly; and let me once come therein, and have my steed aboard
and the boatman in my power, he shall not depart hence ere that ye be come thither. May my
soul be lost if he do!" Further spake the knight Sir Gariet: "Even should he be beside himself
when he first see ye, I shall not let him free ere he have taken us to the further shore, or
I shall have from him such forfeit 'twere better for him to be sunken and drowned in the depths
of the sea!"

Then answered Morien: "Ye have found the best counsel that may be devised. Now ride ye without
delay, and hire us a boat, good and strong, that may well carry us over the water. I shall
abide behind, and wait till ye have done your part. I will do even as ye shall counsel!"

Thus they agreed together, and Sir Gariet rode alone till he came to the ships, where he found
a boat that pleased him well. He offered the boatman money enow to take him to the further
side with no delay. He gave him the gold in his hand, and he made him ready and hoisted sail
and rigging. Of this did he swiftly repent. Even as the steed was aboard and all was ready
for the crossing came Morien riding, blacker than any son of man whom Christian eyes had e'er
beheld. And the boatman was fain to flee when he beheld him and he drew nigh to him, for he
had seen him aforetime. He deemed that he should surely die of fear, and scarce might move a limb.

Then Sir Gariet asked him: "Sir boatman, what aileth thee? By Heaven, it availeth thee naught;
thou shall ferry us over swiftly. Now make us no ado, or this shall be thy last day. By the
Lord who made us, of what art thou afraid? This is not the devil! Hell hath he never seen!
'Tis but my comrade; let him in. I counsel thee straitly!"

Then must the boatman obey, though he liked it but ill. He saw that better might not be: he
might neither leap out of the boat nor otherwise escape. So soon as he had in his boat Morien,
of whom he was sore afraid, in that he was so huge, and had shipped his steed, which was in
seeming over-strong, he pushed the boat from shore and put out to sea. He feared him greatly,
even as one who deems that he is lost.

When Morien had sat himself down he did off his helmet of steel. Then the boatman deemed that
he was a dead man, and prayed for mercy, beholding his face, for he though he might scarce
be a Christian. Sir Gariet asked of him tidings, if there had passed that way two knights,
of whom the one bestrode a red horse and wore red armour, and the other bare the badge of King
Arthur. If he might tell him aught of them he besought him to do so; an he knew where they
yet abode he would give him great thanks.

The boatman said: "'Tis not long since that they were even in my boat; the one knight ware
red armour and had with him a red steed, and the other was wounded and bare King Arthur's badge;
and I know full well," quoth the boatman, "the knights who bear that badge, by that same token
shall ye yourself be one of King Arthur's knights. They would both cross over, and I ferried
them to the further side. 'Twas to them an unknown land; that did I hear well from their speech.
Methought that they were ill at ease, I wist not wherefore. I saw that the one wept so that
the tears fell thick adown his face. And when I had brought them to the other side the knight,
who was glad thereof, asked me if I knew where stood a hermitage wherein a hermit dwelt. That
did I shew him--no more and no less."

Thus fared they, having heard the tale and speaking of the twain, till that they touched the
sand. Then did the boatman shew them the way they should ride thence to where the hermitage
stood, and declared to them the road. Thus left they the boatman, who was much rejoiced to
be safely quit of them. But the knights went on their way till they knew that they drew near
to the hermitage, and came even unto it. Then they dismounted, and made fast their steeds before
the door, and cried with a loud voice to those within: "Let us in! Open of your goodwill!"
A lad came to the door and asked them what they desired, and if aught ailed them that they
required aid.

Then Sir Gariet spake, and said that an it were pleasing to them, they would fain have speech
with the hermit and with Sir Agloval. And the messenger went his way to the twain, and told
them how two knights stood without the gate. "The one is a goodly man to look upon and well
armed, and so, forsooth, is the other, but his armour and his limbs, so far as I might see,
were blacker than soot or pitch. I wot not if ye know aught of them or of their errand. They
said that they would fain speak with ye, and they prayed me straitly, the twain of them, that
I should come hither and tell ye this."

Sir Agloval, who deemed this passing strange, went, as best he might, to the gate, and his
uncle the hermit followed him with no delay. Sir Agloval looked through the wicket, and was
ware of Sir Gariet, Sir Gawain's brother, and bethought him how that he belonged to King Arthur's
court and was worthy of great honour, for though he were not so well known throughout the land
as was his brother Sir Gawain, yet was he a strong knight and bold, and a doer of valiant deeds.

When they beheld each other they gave fair and courteous greeting, the one to the other, and
Sir Gariet spake. "May He who can do all things shew favour and honour to ye Sir Knight, and
to all who be with ye there within!"

Sir Agloval looked upon Morien, and marked right well the fashion of him, and marvelled within
himself what manner of knight he might well be who bare such guise. And Morien stood before
him and asked him if he yet remembered how, seeking for Sir Lancelot, he came into the land
of the Moors, and how he there loved a maiden, and plighted to her his troth, and how she granted
to him her favours ere he departed from her upon his quest. He asked him if he yet thought
thereupon, how, when he departed from the land he pledged his word to her that he would return,
so soon as might be, to the country of the Moors, for her profit and for her honour? Did he
yet think upon this?

