It is not to be supposed that in this list are contained all the speeches which he made in
his consular year, but those only which he made as Consul--those to which he was desirous of
adding something of the dignity of statesmanship, something beyond the weight attached to his
pleadings as a lawyer. As an advocate, Consul though he was, he continued to perform his work;
from whence we learn that no State dignity was so high as to exempt an established pleader
from the duty of defending his friends. Hortensius, when Consul elect, had undertaken to defend
Verres. Cicero defended Murena when he was Consul. He defended C. Calpurnius Piso also, who
was accused, as were so many, of proconsular extortion; but whether in this year or in the
preceding is not, I think, known.[156] Of his speech on that occasion we have nothing remaining.
Of his pleading for Murena we have, if not the whole, the material part, and, though nobody
cares very much for Murena now, the oration is very amusing. It was made toward the end of
the year, on the 20th of November, after the second Catiline oration, and before the third,
at the very moment in which Cicero was fully occupied with the evidence on which he intended
to convict Catiline's fellow-conspirators. As I read it I am carried away by wonder, rather
than admiration, at the energy of the man who could at such a period of his life give up his
time to master the details necessary for the trial of Murena.

Early in the year Cicero had caused a law to be passed--which, after him, was called the Lex
Tullia--increasing the stringency of the enactments against bribery on the part of consular
candidates. His intention had probably been to hinder Catiline, who was again about to become
a candidate. But Murena, who was elected, was supposed to have been caught in the meshes of
the net, and also Silanus, the other Consul designate. Cato, the man of stern nature, the great
Stoic of the day, was delighted to have an opportunity of proceeding against some one, and
not very sorry to attack Murena with weapons provided from the armory of Murena's friend, Cicero.
Silanus, however, who happened to be cousin to Cato, was allowed to pass unmolested. Sulpicius,
who was one of the disappointed candidates, Cato, and Postumius were the accusers. Hortensius,
Crassus, and Cicero were combined together for the defence of Murena. But as we read the single
pleading that has come to us, we feel that, unlike those Roman trials generally, this was carried
on without any acrimony on either side. I think it must have been that Cato wished to have
an opportunity of displaying his virtue, but it had been arranged that Murena was to be acquitted.
Murena was accused, among other things, of dancing! Greeks might dance, as we hear from Cornelius
Nepos,[157] but for a Roman Consul it would be disgraceful in the highest extreme. A lady,
indeed, might dance, but not much. Sallust tells us of Sempronia--who was, indeed, a very bad
female if all that he says of her be true--that she danced more elegantly than became an honest
woman.[158] She was the wife of a Consul. But a male Roman of high standing might not dance
at all. Cicero defends his friend by showing how impossible it was--how monstrous the idea.
"No man would dance unless drunk or mad." Nevertheless, I imagine that Murena had danced.

Cicero seizes an opportunity of quizzing Cato for his stoicism, and uses it delightfully. Horace
was not more happy when, in defence of Aristippus, he declared that any philosopher would turn
up his nose at cabbage if he could get himself asked to the tables of rich men.[159] "There
was one Zeno," Cicero says, "who laid down laws. No wise man would forgive any fault. No man
worthy of the name of man would allow himself to be pitiful. Wise men are beautiful, even though
deformed; rich though penniless; kings though they be slaves. We who are not wise are mere
exiles, runagates, enemies of our country, and madmen. Any fault is an unpardonable crime.
To kill an old cock, if you do not want it, is as bad as to murder your father!"[160] And these
doctrines, he goes on to say, which are used by most of us merely as something to talk about,
this man Cato absolutely believes, and tries to live by them. I shall have to refer back to
this when I speak of Cicero's philosophy more at length; but his common-sense crops up continually
in the expressions which he uses for defending the ordinary conditions of a man's life, in
opposition to that impossible superiority to mundane things which the philosophers professed
to teach their pupils. He turns to Cato and asks him questions, which he answers himself with
his own philosophy: "Would you pardon nothing? Well, yes; but not all things. Would you do
nothing for friendship? Sometimes, unless duty should stand in the way. Would you never be
moved to pity? I would maintain my habit of sincerity, but something must no doubt be allowed
to humanity. It is good to stick to your opinion, but only until some better opinion shall
have prevailed with you." In all this the humanity of our Cicero, as opposed equally to the
impossible virtue of a Cato or the abominable vice of a Verres, is in advance of his age, and
reminds us of what Christ has taught us.

But the best morsel in the whole oration is that in which he snubs the lawyers. It must be
understood that Cicero did not pride himself on being a lawyer. He was an advocate, and if
he wanted law there were those of an inferior grade to whom he could go to get it. In truth,
he did understand the law, being a man of deep research, who inquired into everything. As legal
points had been raised, he thus addresses Sulpicius, who seems to have affected a knowledge
of jurisprudence, who had been a candidate for the Consulship, and who was his own intimate
friend: "I must put you out of your conceit," he says; "it was your other gifts, not a knowledge
of the laws--your moderation, your wisdom, your justice--which, in my opinion, made you worthy
of being loved. I will not say you threw away your time in studying law, but it was not thus
you made yourself worthy of the Consulship.[161] That power of eloquence, majestic and full
of dignity which has so often availed in raising a man to the Consulship, is able by its words
to move the minds of the Senate and the people and the judges.[162] But in such a poor science
as that of law what honor can there be? Its details are taken up with mere words and fragments
of words.[163] They forget all equity in points of law, and stick to the mere letter."[164]
He goes through a presumed scene of chicanery, which, Consul as he was, he must have acted
before the judges and the people, no doubt to the extreme delight of them all. At last he says,
"Full as I am of business, if you raise my wrath I will make myself a lawyer, and learn it
all in three days."[165] From these and many other passages in Cicero's writings and speeches,
and also from Quintilian, we learn that a Roman advocate was by no means the same as an English
barrister. The science which he was supposed to have learned was simply that of telling his
story in effective language. It no doubt came to pass that he had much to do in getting up
the details of his story--what we may call the evidence--but he looked elsewhere, to men of
another profession, for his law. The "juris consultus" or the "juris peritus" was the lawyer,
and as such was regarded as being of much less importance than the "patronus" or advocate,
who stood before the whole city and pleaded the cause. In this trial of Murena, who was by
trade a soldier, it suited Cicero to belittle lawyers and to extol the army. When he is telling
Sulpicius that it was not by being a lawyer that a man could become Consul, he goes on to praise
the high dignity of his client's profession. "The greatest glory is achieved by those who excel
in battle. All our empire, all our republic, is defended and made strong by them."[166] It
was thus that the advocate could speak! This comes from the man who always took glory to himself
in declaring that the "toga" was superior to helmet and shield. He had already declared that
they erred who thought that they were going to get his own private opinion in speeches made
in law courts.[167] He knew how to defend his friend Murena, who was a soldier, and in doing
so could say very sharp things, though yet in joke, against his friend Sulpicius, the lawyer.
But in truth few men understood the Roman law better than did Cicero.

But we must go back to that agrarian law respecting which, as he tells us, four of his consular
speeches were made. This had been brought forward by Rullus, one of the Tribunes, toward the
end of the last year. The Tribunes came into office in December, whereas at this period of
the Republic the Consuls were in power only on and from January 1st. Cicero, who had been unable
to get the particulars of the new law till it had been proclaimed, had but a few days to master
its details. It was, to his thinking, altogether revolutionary. We have the words of many of
the clauses; and though it is difficult at this distance of time to realize what would have
been its effect, I think we are entitled to say that it was intended to subvert all property.
Property, speaking of it generally, cannot be destroyed The land remains, and the combined
results of man's industry are too numerous, too large, and too lasting to become a wholesale
prey to man's anger or madness. Even the elements when out of order can do but little toward
perfecting destruction. A deluge is wanted--or that crash of doom which, whether it is to come
or not, is believed by the world to be very distant. But it is within human power to destroy
possession, and redistribute the goods which industry, avarice, or perhaps injustice has congregated.
They who own property are in these days so much stronger than those who have none, that an
idea of any such redistribution does not create much alarm among the possessors. The spirit
of communism does not prevail among people who have learned that it is, in truth, easier to
earn than to steal. But with the Romans political economy had naturally not advanced so far
as with us. A subversion of property had to a great extent taken place no later than in Sulla's
time. How this had been effected the story of the property of Roscius Amerinus has explained
to us. Under Sulla's enactments no man with a house, with hoarded money, with a family of slaves,
with rich ornaments, was safe. Property had been made to change hands recklessly, ruthlessly,
violently, by the illegal application of a law promulgated by a single individual, who, however,
had himself been instigated by no other idea than that of re-establishing the political order
of things which he approved. Rullus, probably with other motives, was desirous of effecting
a subversion which, though equally great, should be made altogether in a different direction.
The ostensible purpose was something as follows: as the Roman people had by their valor and
wisdom achieved for Rome great victories, and therefore great wealth, they, as Roman citizens,
were entitled to the enjoyment of what they had won; whereas, in fact, the sweets of victory
fell to the lot only of a few aristocrats. For the reform of this evil it should be enacted
that all public property which had been thus acquired, whether land or chattels, should be
sold, and with the proceeds other lands should be bought fit for the use of Roman citizens,
and be given to those who would choose to have it. It was specially suggested that the rich
country called the Campania--that in which Naples now stands with its adjacent isles--should
be bought up and given over to a great Roman colony. For the purpose of carrying out this law
ten magistrates should be appointed, with plenipotentiary power both as to buying and selling.
There were many underplots in this. No one need sell unless he chose to sell; but at this moment
much land was held by no other title than that of Sulla's proscriptions. The present possessors
were in daily fear of dispossession, by some new law made with the object of restoring their
property to those who had been so cruelly robbed. These would be very glad to get any price
in hand for land of which their tenure was so doubtful; and these were the men whom the "decemviri,"
or ten magistrates, would be anxious to assist. We are told that the father-in-law of Rullus
himself had made a large acquisition by his use of Sulla's proscriptions. And then there would
be the instantaneous selling of the vast districts obtained by conquest and now held by the
Roman State. When so much land would be thrown into the market it would be sold very cheap
and would be sold to those whom the "decemviri" might choose to favor. We can hardly now hope
to unravel all the intended details, but we may be sure that the basis on which property stood
would have been altogether changed by the measure. The "decemviri" were to have plenary power
for ten years. All the taxes in all the provinces were to be sold, or put up to market. Everything
supposed to belong to the Roman State was to be sold in every province, for the sake of collecting
together a huge sum of money, which was to be divided in the shape of land among the poorer
Romans. Whatever may have been the private intentions of Rullus, whether good or bad, it is
evident, even at this distance of time, that a redistribution of property was intended which
can only be described as a general subversion. To this the new Consul opposed himself vehemently,
successfully, and, we must needs say, patriotically.

The intense interest which Cicero threw into his work is as manifest in these agrarian orations
as in those subsequently made as to the Catiline conspiracy. He ascends in his energy to a
dignity of self-praise which induces the reader to feel that a man who could so speak of himself
without fear of contradiction had a right to assert the supremacy of his own character and
intellect. He condescends, on the other hand, to a virulence of personal abuse against Rullus
which, though it is to our taste offensive, is, even to us, persuasive, making us feel that
such a man should not have undertaken such a work. He is describing the way in which the bill
was first introduced: "Our Tribunes at last enter upon their office. The harangue to be made
by Rullus is especially expected. He is the projector of the law, and it was expected that
he would carry himself with an air of special audacity. When he was only Tribune elect he began
to put on a different countenance, to speak with a different voice, to walk with a different
stop. We all saw how he appeared with soiled raiment, with his person uncared for, and foul
with dirt, with his hair and beard uncombed and untrimmed."[168] In Rome men under afflictions,
particularly if under accusation, showed themselves in soiled garments so as to attract pity,
and the meaning here is that Rullus went about as though under grief at the condition of his
poor fellow-citizens, who were distressed by the want of this agrarian law. No description
could be more likely to turn an individual into ridicule than this of his taking upon himself
to represent in his own person the sorrows of the city. The picture of the man with the self-assumed
garments of public woe, as though he were big enough to exhibit the grief of all Rome, could
not but be effective. It has been supposed that Cicero was insulting the Tribune because he
was dirty. Not so. He was ridiculing Rullus because Rullus had dared to go about in mourning--"sordidatus"--on
behalf of his country.

But the tone in which Cicero speaks of himself is magnificent. It is so grand as to make us
feel that a Consul of Rome, who had the cares of Rome on his shoulders, was entitled to declare
his own greatness to the Senate and to the people. There are the two important orations--that
spoken first in the Senate, and then the speech to the people from which I have already quoted
the passage personal to Rullus. In both of them he declares his own idea of a Consul, and of
himself as Consul. He has been speaking of the effect of the proposed law on the revenues of
the State, and then proceeds: "But I pass by what I have to say on that matter and reserve
it for the people. I speak now of the danger which menaces our safety and our liberty. For
what will there be left to us untouched in the Republic, what will remain of your authority
and freedom, when Rullus, and those whom you fear much more than Rullus,[169] with this band
of ready knaves, with all the rascaldom of Rome, laden with gold and silver, shall have seized
on Capua and all the cities round? To all this, Senators"--Patres conscripti he calls them--"I
will oppose what power I have. As long as I am Consul I will not suffer them to carry out their
designs against the Republic.

"But you, Rullus, and those who are with you, have been mistaken grievously in supposing that
you will be regarded as friends of the people in your attempts to subvert the Republic in opposition
to a Consul who is known in very truth to be the people's friend I call upon you, I invite
you to meet me in the assembly. Let us have the people of Rome as a judge between us. Let us
look round and see what it is that the people really desire. We shall find that their is nothing
so dear to them as peace and quietness and ease. You have handed over the city to me full of
anxiety, depressed with fear, disturbed by these projected laws and seditious assemblies."
(It must be remembered that he had only on that very day begun his Consulship) "The wicked
you have filled with hope, the good with fear. You have lobbed the Forum of loyalty and the
Republic of dignity. But now, when in the midst of these troubles of mind and body, when in
this great darkness the voice and the authority of the Consul has been heard by the people--when
he shall have made it plain that there is no cause for fear, that no strange army shall enroll
itself, no bands collect themselves; that there shall be no new colonies, no sale of the revenue
no altered empire, no royal 'decemvirs,' no second Rome no other centre of rule but this; that
while I am Consul there shall be perfect peace, perfect ease--do you suppose that I shall dread
the superior popularity of your new agrarian law? Shall I, do you think, be afraid to hold
my own against you in an assembly of the citizens when I shall have exposed the iniquity of
your designs, the fraud of this law, the plots which your Tribunes of the people, popular as
they think themselves, have contrived against the Roman people? Shall I fear--I who have determined
to be Consul after that fashion in which alone a man may do so in dignity and freedom, reaching
to ask nothing for myself which any Tribune could object to have given to me?"[170]

This was to the Senate, but he is bolder still when he addresses the people. He begins by reminding
them that it has always been the custom of the great officers of state, who have enjoyed the
right of having in their houses the busts and images of their ancestors, in their first speech
to the people to join with thanks for the favors done to themselves some records of the noble
deeds done by their forefathers. [171] He, however, could do nothing of the kind: he had no
such right: none in his family had achieved such dignity. To speak of himself might seem too
proud, but to be silent would be ungrateful. Therefore would he restrain himself, but would
still say something, so that he might acknowledge what he had received. Then he would leave
it for them to judge whether he had deserved what they had done for him.

"It is long ago--almost beyond the memory of us now here--since you last made a new man Consul.[172]
That high office the nobles had reserved for themselves, and defended it, as it were, with
ramparts. You have secured it for me, so that in future it shall be open to any who may be
worthy of it. Nor have you only made me a Consul, much as that is, but you have done so in
such a fashion that but few among the old nobles have been so treated, and no new man--'novus
ante me nemo.' I have, if you will think of it, been the only new man who has stood for the
Consulship in the first year in which it was legal, and who has got it." Then he goes on to
remind them, in words which I have quoted before, that they had elected him by their unanimous
voices. All this, he says, had been very grateful to him, but he had quite understood that
it had been done that he might labor on their behalf. That such labor was severe, he declares.
The Consulship itself must be defended. His period of Consulship to any Consul must be a year
of grave responsibility, but more so to him than to any other. To him, should he be in doubt,
the great nobles would give no kind advice. To him, should he be overtasked, they would give
no assistance. But the first thing he would look for should be their good opinion. To declare
now, before the people, that he would exercise his office for the good of the people was his
natural duty. But in that place, in which it was difficult to speak after such a fashion, in
the Senate itself, on the very first day of his Consulship, he had declared the same thing--"popularem
me futurum esse consulem."[173]

The course he had to pursue was noble, but very difficult. He desired, certainly, to be recognized
as a friend of the people, but he desired so to befriend them that he might support also at
the same time the power of the aristocracy. He still believed, as we cannot believe now, that
there was a residuum of good in the Senate sufficient to blossom forth into new powers of honest
government. When speaking to the oligarchs in the Senate of Rullus and his land law, it was
easy enough to carry them with him. That a Consul should oppose a Tribune who was coming forward
with a "Lex agraria" in his hands, as the latest disciple of the Gracchi, was not out of the
common order of things. Another Consul would either have looked for popularity and increased
power of plundering, as Antony might have done, or have stuck to his order, as he would have
called it--as might have been the case with the Cottas, Lepiduses and Pisos of preceding years.
But Cicero determined to oppose the demagogue Tribune by proving himself to the people to be
more of a demagogue than he. He succeeded, and Rullus with his agrarian law was sent back into
darkness. I regard the second speech against Rullus as the ne plus ultra, the very beau ideal
of a political harangue to the people on the side of order and good government.

I cannot finish this chapter, in which I have attempted to describe the lesser operations of
Cicero's Consulship, without again alluding to the picture drawn by Virgil of a great man quelling
the storms of a seditious rising by the gravity of his presence and the weight of his words.[174]
The poet surely had in his memory some occasion in which had taken place this great triumph
of character and intellect combined. When the knights, during Cicero's Consulship essayed to
take their privileged places in the public theatre, in accordance with a law passed by Roscius
Otho a few years earlier (B.C. 68), the founder of the obnoxious law himself entered the building.
The people, enraged against a man who had interfered with them and their pleasures, and who
had brought them, as it were under new restraints from the aristocracy, arose in a body and
began to break everything that came to hand. "Tum pietate gravem!" The Consul was sent for.
He called on the people to follow him out of the theatre to the Temple of Bellona, and there
addressed to them that wonderful oration by which they were sent away not only pacified but
in good-humor with Otho himself. "Iste regit dictis animos et pectora mulcet." I have spoken
of Pliny's eulogy as to the great Consul's doings of the year. The passage is short and I will
translate it:[175] "But, Marcus Tullius, how shall I reconcile it to myself to be silent as
to you, or by what special glory shall I best declare your excellence? How better than by referring
to the grand testimony given to you by the whole nation, and to the achievements of your Consulship
as a specimen of your entire life? At your voice the tribes gave up their agrarian law, which
was as the very bread in their mouths. At your persuasion they pardoned Otho his law and bore
with good-humor the difference of the seats assigned to them. At your prayer the children of
the proscribed forbore from demanding their rights of citizenship. Catiline was put to flight
by your skill and eloquence. It was you who silenced[176] M. Antony. Hail, thou who wert first
addressed as the father of your country--the first who, in the garb of peace, hast deserved
a triumph and won the laurel wreath of eloquence." This was grand praise to be spoken of a
man more than a hundred years after his death, by one who had no peculiar sympathies with him
other than those created by literary affinity.

None of Cicero's letters have come to us from the year of his Consulship.

CHAPTER IX

CATILINE.

To wash the blackamoor white has been the favorite task of some modern historians. To find
a paradox in character is a relief to the investigating mind which does not care to walk always
in the well-tried paths, or to follow the grooves made plain and uninteresting by earlier writers.
Tiberius and even Nero have been praised. The memories of our early years have been shocked
by instructions to regard Richard III. and Henry VIII. as great and scrupulous kings. The devil
may have been painted blacker than he should be, and the minds of just men, who will not accept
the verdict of the majority, have been much exercised to put the matter right. We are now told
that Catiline was a popular hero; that, though he might have wished to murder Cicero, he was,
in accordance with the practice of his days, not much to be blamed for that; and that he was
simply the follower of the Gracchi, and the forerunner of Cæsar in his desire to oppose the
oligarchy of Rome.[177] In this there is much that is true. Murder was common. He who had seen
the Sullan proscriptions, as both Catiline and Cicero had done, might well have learned to
feel less scrupulous as to blood than we do in these days. Even Cicero, who of all the Romans
was the most humane--even he, no doubt, would have been well contented that Catiline should
have been destroyed by the people.[178] Even he was the cause, as we shall see just now, of
the execution of the leaders of the conspirators whom Catiline left behind him in the city--an
execution of which the legality is at any rate very doubtful. But in judging even of bloodshed
we have to regard the circumstances of the time in the verdicts we give. Our consciousness
of altered manners and of the growth of gentleness force this upon us. We cannot execrate the
conspirators who murdered Cæsar as we would do those who might now plot the death of a tyrant;
nor can we deal as heavily with the murderers of Cæsar as we would have done then with Catilinarian
conspirators in Rome, had Catiline's conspiracy succeeded. And so, too, in acknowledging that
Catiline was the outcome of the Gracchi, and to some extent the preparation for Cæsar, we must
again compare him with them, his motives and designs with theirs, before we can allow ourselves
to sympathize with him, because there was much in them worthy of praise and honor.

That the Gracchi were seditious no historian has, I think, denied. They were willing to use
the usages and laws of the Republic where those usages and laws assisted them, but as willing
to act illegally when the usages and laws ran counter to them. In the reforms or changes which
they attempted they were undoubtedly rebels; but no reader comes across the tale of the death,
first of one and then of the other, without a regret. It has to be owned that they were murdered
in tumults which they themselves had occasioned. But they were honest and patriotic. History
has declared of them that their efforts were made with the real purport of relieving their
fellow-countrymen from what they believed to be the tyranny of oligarchs. The Republic even
in their time had become too rotten to be saved; but the world has not the less given them
the credit for a desire to do good; and the names of the two brothers, rebels as they were,
have come down to us with a sweet savor about them. Cæsar, on the other hand, was no doubt
of the same political party. He too was opposed to the oligarchs, but it never occurred to
him that he could save the Republic by any struggles after freedom. His mind was not given
to patriotism of that sort--not to memories, not to associations. Even laws were nothing to
him but as they might be useful. To his thinking, probably even in his early days, the state
of Rome required a master. Its wealth, its pleasures, its soldiers, its power, were there for
any one to take who could take them--for any one to hold who could hold them. Mr. Beesly, the
last defender of Catiline, has stated that very little was known in Rome of Cæsar till the
time of Catiline's conspiracy, and in that I agree with him. He possessed high family rank,
and had been Quæstor and Ædile; but it was only from this year out that his name was much in
men's mouths, and that he was learning to look into things. It may be that he had previously
been in league with Catiline--that he was in league with him till the time came for the great
attempt. The evidence, as far as it goes, seems to show that it was so. Rome had been the prey
of many conspiracies. The dominion of Marius and the dominion of Sulla had been effected by
conspiracies. No doubt the opinion was strong with many that both Cæsar and Crassus, the rich
man, were concerned with Catiline. But Cæsar was very far-seeing, and, if such connection existed,
knew how to withdraw from it when the time was not found to be opportune. But from first to
last he always was opposed to the oligarchy. The various steps from the Gracchi to him were
as those which had to be made from the Girondists to Napoleon. Catiline, no doubt, was one
of the steps, as were Danton and Robespierre steps. The continuation of steps in each case
was at first occasioned by the bad government and greed of a few men in power. But as Robespierre
was vile and low, whereas Vergniaud was honest and Napoleon great, so was it with Catiline
between the Gracchi and Cæsar. There is, to my thinking, no excuse for Catiline in the fact
that he was a natural step, not even though he were a necessary step, between the Gracchi and
Cæsar.

I regard as futile the attempts which are made to rewrite history on the base of moral convictions
and philosophical conclusion. History very often has been, and no doubt often again will be,
rewritten, with good effect and in the service of truth, on the finding of new facts. Records
have been brought to light which have hitherto been buried, and testimonies are compared with
testimonies which have not before been seen together. But to imagine that a man may have been
good who has lain under the ban of all the historians, all the poets, and all the tellers of
anecdotes, and then to declare such goodness simply in accordance with the dictates of a generous
heart or a contradictory spirit, is to disturb rather than to assist history. Of Catiline we
at least know that he headed a sedition in Rome in the year of Cicero's Consulship; that he
left the city suddenly; that he was killed in the neighborhood of Pistoia fighting against
the Generals of the Republic, and that he left certain accomplices in Rome who were put to
death by an edict of the Senate. So much I think is certain to the most truculent doubter.
From his contemporaries, Sallust and Cicero, we have a very strongly expressed opinion of his
character. They have left to us denunciations of the man which have made him odious to all
after-ages, so that modern poets have made him a stock character, and have dramatized him as
a fiend. Voltaire has described him as calling upon his fellow-conspirators to murder Cicero
and Cato, and to burn the city. Ben Jonson makes Catiline kill a slave and mix his blood, to
be drained by his friends. "There cannot be a fitter drink to make this sanction in." The friends
of Catiline will say that this shows no evidence against the man. None, certainly; but it is
a continued expression of the feeling that has prevailed since Catiline's time. In his own
age Cicero and Sallust, who were opposed in all their political views, combined to speak ill
of him. In the next, Virgil makes him as suffering his punishment in hell.[179] In the next,
Velleius Paterculus speaks of him as the conspirator whom Cicero had banished.[180] Juvenal
makes various allusions to him, but all in the same spirit. Juvenal cared nothing for history,
but used the names of well-known persons as illustrations of the idea which he was presenting.[181]
Valerius Maximus, who wrote commendable little essays about all the virtues and all the vices,
which he illustrated with the names of all the vicious and all the virtuous people he knew,
is very severe on Catiline.[182] Florus, who wrote two centuries and a half after the conspiracy,
gives us of Catiline the same personal story as that told both by Sallust and Cicero: "Debauchery,
in the first place; and then the poverty which that had produced; and then the opportunity
of the time, because the Roman armies were in distant lands, induced Catiline to conspire for
the destruction of his country."[183] Mommsen, who was certainly biassed by no feeling in favor
of Cicero, declares that Catiline in particular was "one of the most nefarious men in that
nefarious age. His villanies belong to the criminal records, not to history."[184] All this
is no evidence. Cicero and Sallust may possibly have combined to lie about Catiline. Other
Roman writers may have followed them, and modern poets and modern historians may have followed
the Roman writers. It is possible that the world may have been wrong as to a period of Roman
history with which it has thought itself to be well acquainted; but the world now has nothing
to go by but the facts as they have come down to it. The writers of the ages since have combined
to speak of Cicero with respect and admiration. They have combined, also, to speak of Catiline
with abhorrence. They have agreed, also, to treat those other rebels, the Gracchi, after such
a fashion that, in spite of their sedition, a sweet savor, as I have said, attaches itself
to their names. For myself, I am contented to take the opinion of the world, and feel assured
that I shall do no injustice in speaking of Catiline as all who have written about him hitherto
have spoken of him I cannot consent to the building up of a noble patriot out of such materials
as we have concerning him.[185]

Two strong points have been made for Catiline in Mr. Beesly's defence. His ancestors had been
Consuls when the forefathers of patricians of a later date "were clapping their chapped hands
and throwing up their sweaty nightcaps." That scorn against the people should be expressed
by the aristocrat Casca was well supposed by Shakspeare; but how did a liberal of the present
day bring himself to do honor to his hero by such allusions? In truth, however, the glory of
ancient blood and the disgrace attaching to the signs of labor are ideas seldom relinquished
even by democratic minds. A Howard is nowhere lovelier than in America, or a sweaty nightcap
less relished. We are then reminded how Catiline died fighting, with the wounds all in front;
and are told that the "world has generally a generous word for the memory of a brave man dying
for his cause, be that cause what it will; but for Catiline none!" I think there is a mistake
in the sentiment expressed here. To die readily when death must come is but a little thing,
and is done daily by the poorest of mankind. The Romans could generally do it, and so can the
Chinese. A Zulu is quite equal to it, and people lower in civilization than Chinese or Zulus.
To encounter death, or the danger of death, for the sake of duty--when the choice is there;
but duty and death are preferred to ignominious security, or, better still, to security which
shall bring with it self-abasement--that is grand. When I hear that a man "rushed into the
field and, foremost fighting, fell," if there have been no adequate occasion, I think him a
fool. If it be that he has chosen to hurry on the necessary event, as was Catiline's case,
I recognize him as having been endowed with certain physical attributes which are neither glorious
nor disgraceful. That Catiline was constitutionally a brave man no one has denied. Rush, the
murderer, was one of the bravest men of whom I remember to have heard. What credit is due to
Rush is due to Catiline.

What we believe to be the story of Catiline's life is this: In Sulla's time he was engaged,
as behooved a great nobleman of ancient blood, in carrying out the Dictator's proscriptions
and in running through whatever means he had. There are fearful stories told of him as to murdering
his own son and other relatives; as to which Mr. Beesly is no doubt right in saying that such
tales were too lightly told in Rome to deserve implicit confidence. To serve a purpose any
one would say anything of any enemy. Very marvellous qualities are attributed to him--as to
having been at the same time steeped in luxury and yet able and willing to bear all bodily
hardships. He probably had been engaged in murders--as how should a man not have been so who
had served under Sulla during the Dictatorship? He had probably allured some young aristocrats
into debauchery, when all young aristocrats were so allured. He had probably undergone some
extremity of cold and hunger. In reading of these things the reader will know by instinct how
much he may believe, and how much he should receive as mythic. That he was a fast young nobleman,
brought up to know no scruples, to disregard blood, and to look upon his country as a milch
cow from which a young nobleman might be fed with never-ending streams of rich cream in the
shape of money to be borrowed, wealth to be snatched, and, above all, foreigners to be plundered,
we may take, I think, as proved. In spite of his vices, or by aid of them, he rose in the service
of his country. That such a one should become a Prætor and a Governor was natural. He went
to Africa with proconsular authority, and of course fleeced the Africans. It was as natural
as that a flock of sheep should lose their wool at shearing time. He came back intent, as was
natural also, on being a Consul, and of carrying on the game of promotion and of plunder. But
there came a spoke in his wheel--the not unusual spoke of an accusation from the province.
While under accusation for provincial robbery he could not come forward as a candidate, and
thus he was stopped in his career.

It is not possible now to unravel all the personal feuds of the time--the ins and outs of family
quarrels. Clodius--the Clodius who was afterward Cicero's notorious enemy and the victim of
Milo's fury--became the accuser of Catiline on behalf of the Africans. Though Clodius was much
the younger, they were men of the same class. It may be possible that Clodius was appointed
to the work--as it had been intended that Cæcilius should be appointed at the prosecution of
Verres--in order to assure not the conviction but the acquittal of the guilty man. The historians
and biographers say that Clodius was at last bought by a bribe, and that he betrayed the Africans
after that fashion. It may be that such bribery was arranged from the first. Our interest in
that trial lies in the fact that Cicero no doubt intended, from political motives, to defend
Catiline. It has been said that he did do so. As far as we know, he abandoned the intention.
We have no trace of his speech, and no allusion in history to an occurrence which would certainly
have been mentioned.[186] But there was no reason why he should not have done so. He defended
Fonteius, and I am quite willing to own that he knew Fonteius to have been a robber. When I
look at the practice of our own times, I find that thieves and rebels are defended by honorable
advocates, who do not scruple to take their briefs in opposition to their own opinions. It
suited Cicero to do the same. If I were detected in a plot for blowing up a Cabinet Council,
I do not doubt but that I should get the late attorney-general to defend me.[187]

But Catiline, though he was acquitted, was balked in his candidature for the Consulship of
the next year, B.C. 65. P. Sulla and Autronius were elected--that Sulla to whose subsequent
defence I have just referred in this note--but were ejected on the score of bribery, and two
others, Torquatus and Cotta, were elected in their place. In this way three men standing on
high before their countrymen--one having been debarred from standing for the Consulship, and
the other two having been robbed of their prize even when it was within their grasp--not unnaturally
became traitors at heart. Almost as naturally they came together and conspired. Why should
they have been selected as victims, having only done that which every aristocrat did as a matter
of course in following out his recognized profession in living upon the subject nations? Their
conduct had probably been the same as that of others, or if more glaring, only so much so as
is always the case with vices as they become more common. However, the three men fell, and
became the centre of a plot which is known as the first Catiline conspiracy.

The reader must bear in mind that I am now telling the story of Catiline, and going back to
a period of two years before Cicero's Consulship, which was B.C. 63. How during that year Cicero
successfully defended Murena when Cato endeavored to rob him of his coming Consulship, has
been already told. It may be that Murena's hands were no cleaner than those of Sulla and Autronius,
and that they lacked only the consular authority and forensic eloquence of the advocate who
defended Murena. At this time, when the two appointed Consuls were rejected, Cicero had hardly
as yet taken any part in public politics. He had been Quæstor, Ædile, and Prætor, filling those
administrative offices to the best of his ability. He had, he says, hardly heard of the first
conspiracy.[189] That what he says is true, is, I think, proved by the absence of all allusion
to it in his early letters, or in the speeches or fragments of speeches that are extant. But
that there was such a conspiracy we cannot doubt, nor that the three men named, Catiline, Sulla,
and Autronius, were leaders in it. What would interest us, if only we could have the truth,
is whether Cæsar and Crassus were joined in it.

It is necessary again to consider the condition of the Republic. To us a conspiracy to subvert
the government under which the conspirer lives seems either a very terrible remedy for great
evils, or an attempt to do evil which all good men should oppose. We have the happy conspiracy
in which Washington became the military leader, and the French Revolution, which, bloody as
it was, succeeded in rescuing Frenchmen from the condition of serfdom. At home we have our
own conspiracy against the Stuart royalty, which had also noble results. The Gracchi had attempted
to effect something of the same kind at Rome; but the moral condition of the people had become
so low that no real love of liberty remained. Conspiracy! oh yes. As long as there was anything
to get, of course he who had not got it would conspire against him who had. There had been
conspiracies for and against Marius, for and against Cinna, for and against Sulla. There was
a grasping for plunder, a thirst for power which meant luxury, a greed for blood which grew
from the hatred which such rivalry produced. These were the motive causes for conspiracies;
not whether Romans should be free but whether a Sulla or a Cotta should be allowed to run riot
in a province.

Cæsar at this time had not done much in the Roman world except fall greatly into debt. Knowing,
as we do know now, his immense intellectual capacity, we cannot doubt but at the age he had
now reached, thirty-five, B.C. 65, he had considered deeply his prospects in life. There is
no reason for supposing that he had conceived the idea of being a great soldier. That came
to him by pure accident, some years afterward. To be Quæstor, Prætor, and Consul, and catch
what was going, seems to have been the cause to him of having encountered extraordinary debt.
That he would have been a Verres, or a Fonteius, or a Catiline, we certainly are not entitled
to think. Over whatever people he might have come to reign, and in whatever way he might have
procured his kingdom, he would have reigned with a far-seeing eye, fixed upon future results.
At this period he was looking out for a way to advance himself. There were three men, all just
six years his senior, who had risen or were rising into great repute; they were Pompey, Cicero,
and Catiline. There were two who were noted for having clean hands in the midst of all the
dirt around; and they were undoubtedly the first Romans of the day. Catiline was determined
that he too would be among the first Romans of the day; but his hands had never been clean.
Which was the better way for such a one as Cæsar to go?

To have had Pompey under his feet, or Cicero, must have then seemed to Cæsar to be impracticable,
though the time came when he did, in different ways, have his feet on both. With Catiline the
chance of success might be better. Crassus he had already compassed. Crassus was like M. Poirier
in the play--a man who, having become rich, then allowed himself the luxury of an ambition.
If Cæsar joined the plot we can well understand that Crassus should have gone with him. We
have all but sufficient authority for saying that it was so, but authority insufficient for
declaring it. That Sallust, in his short account of the first conspiracy, should not have implicated
Cæsar was a matter of course,[190] as he wrote altogether in Cæsar's interest. That Cicero
should not have mentioned it is also quite intelligible. He did not wish to pull down upon
his ears the whole house of the aristocracy. Throughout his career it was his object to maintain
the tenor of the law with what smallest breach of it might be possible; but he was wise enough
to know that when the laws were being broken on every side he could not catch in his nets all
those who broke them. He had to pass over much; to make the best of the state of things as
he found them. It is not to be supposed that a conspirator against the Republic would be horrible
to him, as would be to us a traitor against the Crown: there were too many of them for horror.
If Cæsar and Crassus could be got to keep themselves quiet, he would be willing enough not
to have to add them to his list of enemies. Livy is presumed to have told us that this conspiracy
intended to restore the ejected Consuls, and to kill the Consuls who had been established in
their place. But the book in which this was written is lost, and we have only the Epitome,
or heading of the book, of which we know that it was not written by Livy.[191] Suetonius, who
got his story not improbably from Livy, tells us that Cæsar was suspected of having joined
this conspiracy with Crassus;[192] and he goes on to say that Cicero, writing subsequently
to one Axius, declared that "Cæsar had attempted in his Consulship to accomplish the dominion
which he had intended to grasp in his Ædileship" the year in question. There is, however, no
such letter extant. Asconius, who, as I have said before, wrote in the time of Tiberius, declares
that Cicero in his lost oration, "In toga candida," accused Crassus of having been the author
of the conspiracy. Such is the information we have; and if we elect to believe that Cæsar was
then joined with Catiline, we must be guided by our ideas of probability rather than by evidence.[193]
As I have said before, conspiracies had been very rife. To Cæsar it was no doubt becoming manifest
that the Republic, with its oligarchs, must fall. Subsequently it did fall, and he was--I will
not say the conspirator, nor will I judge the question by saying that he was the traitor; but
the man of power who, having the legions of the Republic in his hands, used them against the
Republic. I can well understand that he should have joined such a conspiracy as this first
of Catiline, and then have backed out of it when he found he could not trust those who were
joined with him.

This conspiracy failed. One man omitted to give a signal at one time, and another at another.
The Senate was to have been slaughtered; the two Consuls, Cotta and Torquatus, murdered, and
the two ex-Consuls, Sulla and Autronius, replaced. Though all the details seem to have been
known to the Consuls, Catiline was allowed to go free, nor were any steps taken for the punishment
of the conspirators.

The second conspiracy was attempted in the Consulship of Cicero, B.C. 63, two years after the
first. Catiline had struggled for the Consulship, and had failed. Again there would be no province,
no plunder, no power. This interference, as it must have seemed to him, with his peculiar privileges,
had all come from Cicero. Cicero was the busybody who was attempting to stop the order of things
which had, to his thinking, been specially ordained by all the gods for the sustenance of one
so well born, and at the same time so poor, as himself. There was a vulgar meddling about it--all
coming from the violent virtue of a Consul whose father had been a nobody at Arpinum--which
was well calculated to drive Catiline into madness. So he went to work and got together in
Rome a body of men as discontented and almost as nobly born as himself, and in the country
north of Rome an army of rebels, and began his operations with very little secrecy. In all
the story the most remarkable feature is the openness with which many of the details of the
conspiracy were carried on. The existence of the rebel army was known; it was known that Catiline
was the leader; the causes of his disaffection were known; his comrades in guilt were known
When any special act was intended, such as might be the murder of the Consul or the firing
of the city, secret plots were concocted in abundance. But the grand fact of a wide-spread
conspiracy could go naked in Rome, and not even a Cicero dare to meddle with it.

[Sidenote: B.C. 63, ætat. 44.]

As to this second conspiracy, the conspiracy with which Sallust and Cicero have made us so
well acquainted, there is no sufficient ground for asserting that Cæsar was concerned in it.[194]
That he was greatly concerned in the treatment of the conspirators there is no doubt. He had
probably learned to appreciate the rage, the madness, the impotence of Catiline at then propel
worth. He too, I think, must have looked upon Cicero as a meddling, over-virtuous busybody;
as did even Pompey when he returned from the East. What practical use could there be in such
a man at such a time--in one who really believed in honesty, who thought of liberty and the
Republic, and imagined that he could set the world right by talking? Such must have been the
feeling of Cæsar, who had both experience and foresight to tell him that Rome wanted and must
have a master. He probably had patriotism enough to feel that he, if he could acquire the mastership,
would do something beyond robbery--would not satisfy himself with cutting the throats of all
his enemies, and feeding his supporters with the property of his opponents. But Cicero was
impracticable--unless, indeed, he could be so flattered as to be made useful. It was thus,
I think, that Cæsar regarded Cicero, and thus that he induced Pompey to regard him. But now,
in the year of his Consulship, Cicero had really talked himself into power, and for this year
his virtue must be allowed to have its full way.

He did so much in this year, was so really efficacious in restraining for a time the greed
and violence of the aristocracy, that it is not surprising that he was taught to believe in
himself. There were, too, enough of others anxious for the Republic to bolster him up in his
own belief. There was that Cornelius in whose defence Cicero made the two great speeches which
have been unfortunately lost, and there was Cato, and up to this time there was Pompey, as
Cicero thought. Cicero, till he found himself candidate for the Consulship, had contented himself
with undertaking separate cases, in which, no doubt, politics were concerned, but which were
not exclusively political. He had advocated the employment of Pompey in the East, and had defended
Cornelius. He was well acquainted with the history of the Republic; but he had probably never
asked himself the question whether it was in mortal peril, and if so, whether it might possibly
be saved. In his Consulship he did do so; and, seeing less of the Republic than we can see
now, told himself that it was possible.

The stories told to us of Catiline's conspiracy by Sallust and by Cicero are so little conflicting
that we can trust them both. Trusting them both, we are justified in believing that we know
the truth. We are here concerned only with the part which Cicero took. Nothing, I think, which
Cicero says is contradicted by Sallust, though of much that Cicero certainly did Sallust is
silent. Sallust damns him, but only by faint praise. We may, therefore, take the account of
the plot as given by Cicero himself as verified: indeed, I am not aware that any of Cicero's
facts have been questioned.

Sallust declares that Catiline's attempt was popular in Rome generally.[195] This, I think,
must be taken as showing simply that revolution and conspiracy were in themselves popular:
that, as a condition of things around him such as existed in Rome, a plotter of state plots
should be able to collect a body of followers, was a thing of course; that there were many
citizens who would not work, and who expected to live in luxury on public or private plunder,
is certain. When the conspiracy was first announced in the Senate, Catiline had an army collected;
but we have no proof that the hearts of the inhabitants of Rome generally were with the conspirators.
On the other hand, we have proof, in the unparalleled devotion shown by the citizens to Cicero
after the conspiracy was quelled, that their hearts were with him. The populace, fond of change,
liked a disturbance; but there is nothing to show that Catiline was ever beloved as had been
the Gracchi, and other tribunes of the people who came after them.

Catiline, in the autumn of the year B.C. 63, had arranged the outside circumstances of his
conspiracy, knowing that he would, for the third time, be unsuccessful in his canvass for the
Consulship. That Cicero with other Senators should be murdered seems to have been their first
object, and that then the Consulship should be seized by force. On the 21st of October Cicero
made his first report to the Senate as to the conspiracy, and called upon Catiline for his
answer. It was then that Catiline made his famous reply: "That the Republic had two bodies,
of which one was weak and had a bad head"--meaning the aristocracy, with Cicero as its chief--"and
the other strong, but without any head," meaning the people; "but that as for himself, so well
had the people deserved of him, that as long as he lived a head should be forth-coming."[196]
Then, at that sitting, the Senate decreed, in the usual formula, "That the Consuls were to
take care that the Republic did not suffer."[197] On the 22d of October, the new Consuls, Silanus
and Murena, were elected. On the 23d, Catiline was regularly accused of conspiracy by Paulus
Lepidus, a young nobleman, in conformity with a law which had been enacted fifty-five years
earlier, "de vi publica," as to violence applied to the State. Two days afterward it was officially
reported that Manlius--or Mallius, as he seems to have been generally called--Catiline's lieutenant,
had openly taken up arms in Etruria. The 27th had been fixed by the conspirators for the murder
of Cicero and the other Senators. That all this was to be, and was so arranged by Catiline,
had been declared in the Senate by Cicero himself on that day when Catiline told them of the
two bodies and the two heads. Cicero, with his intelligence, ingenuity, and industry, had learned
every detail. There was one Curius among the conspirators, a fair specimen of the young Roman
nobleman of the day, who told it all to his mistress Fulvia, and she carried the information
to the Consul. It is all narrated with fair dramatic accuracy in Ben Jonson's dull play, though
he has attributed to Cæsar a share in the plot, for doing which he had no authority. Cicero,
on that sitting in the Senate, had been specially anxious to make Catiline understand that
he knew privately every circumstance of the plot. Throughout the whole conspiracy his object
was not to take Catiline, but to drive him out of Rome. If the people could be stirred up to
kill him in their wrath, that might be well; in that way there might be an end of all the trouble.
But if that did not come to pass, then it would be best to make the city unbearable to the
conspirators. If they could be driven out, they must either take themselves to foreign parts
and be dispersed, or must else fight and assuredly be conquered. Cicero himself was never blood-thirsty,
but the necessity was strong upon him of ridding the Republic from these blood-thirsty men.

The scheme for destroying Cicero and the Senators on the 27th of October had proved abortive.
On the 6th of the next month a meeting was held in the house of one Marcus Porcius Læca, at
which a plot was arranged for the killing of Cicero the next day--for the killing of Cicero
alone--he having been by this time found to be the one great obstacle in their path. Two knights
were told off for the service, named Vargunteius and Cornelius. These, after the Roman fashion,
were to make their way early on the following morning into the Consul's bedroom for the ostensible
purpose of paying him their morning compliments, but, when there, they were to slay him. All
this, however, was told to Cicero, and the two knights, when they came, were refused admittance.
If Cicero had been a man given to fear, as has been said of him, he must have passed a wretched
life at this period. As far as I can judge of his words and doings throughout his life, he
was not harassed by constitutional timidity. He feared to disgrace his name, to lower his authority,
to become small in the eyes of men, to make political mistakes, to do that which might turn
against him. In much of this there was a falling off from that dignity which, if we do not
often find it in a man, we can all of us imagine; but of personal dread as to his own skin,
as to his own life, there was very little. At this time, when, as he knew well, many men with
many weapons in their hands, men who were altogether unscrupulous, were in search for his blood
he never seems to have trembled.

But all Rome trembled--even according to Sallust. I have already shown how he declares in one
part of his narrative that the common people as a body were with Catiline, and have attempted
to explain what was meant by that expression. In another, in an earlier chapter, he says "that
the State," meaning the city, "was disturbed by all this, and its appearance changed.[198]
Instead of the joy and ease which had lately prevailed, the effect of the long peace, a sudden
sadness fell upon every one." I quote the passage because that other passage has been taken
as proving the popularity of Catiline. There can, I think, be no doubt that the population
of Rome was, as a body, afraid of Catiline. The city was to be burnt down, the Consuls and
the Senate were to be murdered, debts were to be wiped out, slaves were probably to be encouraged
against their masters. The "permota civitas" and the "cuncta plebes," of which Sallust speaks,
mean that all the "householders" were disturbed, and that all the "roughs" were eager with
revolutionary hopes.

On the 8th of November, the day after that on which the Consul was to have been murdered in
his own house, he called a special meeting of the Senate in the temple of Jupiter Stator. The
Senate in Cicero's time was convened according to expedience, or perhaps as to the dignity
of the occasion, in various temples. Of these none had a higher reputation than that of the
special Jupiter who is held to have befriended Romulus in his fight with the Sabines. Here
was launched that thunderbolt of eloquence which all English school-boys have known for its
"Quousque tandem abutere, Catilina, patientia nostra." Whether it be from the awe which has
come down to me from my earliest years, mixed perhaps with something of dread for the great
pedagogue who first made the words to sound grandly in my ears, or whether true critical judgment
has since approved to me the real weight of the words, they certainly do contain for my intelligence
an expression of almost divine indignation. Then there follows a string of questions, which
to translate would be vain, which to quote, for those who read the language, is surely unnecessary.
It is said to have been a fault with Cicero that in his speeches he runs too much into that
vein of wrathful interrogation which undoubtedly palls upon us in English oratory when frequent
resort is made to it. It seems to be too easy, and to contain too little of argument. It was
this, probably, of which his contemporaries complained when they declared him to be florid,
redundant, and Asiatic in his style.[199] This questioning runs through nearly the whole speech,
but the reader cannot fail to acknowledge its efficacy in reference to the matter in hand.
Catiline was sitting there himself in the Senate, and the questions were for the most part
addressed to him. We can see him now, a man of large frame, with bold, glaring eyes, looking
in his wrath as though he were hardly able to keep his hands from the Consul's throat, even
there in the Senate. Though he knew that this attack was to be made on him, he had stalked
into the temple and seated himself in a place of honor, among the benches intended for those
who had been Consuls. When there, no one spoke to him, no one saluted him. The consular Senators
shrunk away, leaving their places of privilege. Even his brother-conspirators, of whom many
were present, did not dare to recognize him. Lentulus was no doubt there, and Cethegus, and
two of the Sullan family, and Cassius Longinus, and Autronius, and Læca, and Curius. All of
them were or had been conspirators in the same cause. Cæsar was there too, and Crassus. A fellow
conspirator with Catiline would probably be a Senator. Cicero knew them all. We cannot say
that in this matter Cæsar was guilty, but Cicero, no doubt, felt that Cæsar's heart was with
Catiline. It was his present task so to thunder with his eloquence that he should turn these
bitter enemies into seeming friends--to drive Catiline from out of the midst of them, so that
it should seem that he had been expelled by those who were in truth his brother-conspirators;
and this it was that he did.

He declared the nature of the plot, and boldly said that, such being the facts, Catiline deserved
death. "If," he says, "I should order you to be taken and killed, believe me I should be blamed
rather for my delay in doing so than for my cruelty." He spoke throughout as though all the
power were in his own hands, either to strike or to forbear. But it was his object to drive
him out and not to kill him. "Go," he said; "that camp of yours and Mallius, your lieutenant,
are too long without you. Take your friends with you. Take them all. Cleanse the city of your
presence. When its walls are between you and me then I shall feel myself secure. Among us here
you may no longer stir yourself. I will not have it--I will not endure it. If I were to suffer
you to be killed, your followers in the conspiracy would remain here; but if you go out, as
I desire you, this cesspool of filth will drain itself off from out the city. Do you hesitate
to do at my command that which you would fain do yourself? The Consul requires an enemy to
depart from the city. Do you ask me whether you are to go into exile? I do not order it; but
if you ask my counsel, I advise it." Exile was the severest punishment known by the Roman law,
as applicable to a citizen, and such a punishment it was in the power of no Consul or other
officer of state to inflict. Though he had taken upon himself the duty of protecting the Republic,
still he could not condemn a citizen. It was to the moral effect of his words that he must
trust: "Non jubeo, sed si me consulis, suadeo." Catiline heard him to the end, and then, muttering
a curse, left the Senate, and went out of the city. Sallust tells us that he threatened to
extinguish, in the midst of the general ruin he would create, the flames prepared for his own
destruction. Sallust, however, was not present on the occasion, and the threat probably had
been uttered at an earlier period of Catiline's career. Cicero tells us expressly, in one of
his subsequent works, that Catiline was struck dumb.[200]

Of this first Catiline oration Sallust says, that "Marcus Tullius the Consul, either fearing
the presence of the man, or stirred to anger, made a brilliant speech, very useful to the Republic."[201]
This, coming from an enemy, is stronger testimony to the truth of the story told by Cicero,
than would have been any vehement praise from the pen of a friend.

Catiline met some of his colleagues the same night. They were the very men who as Senators
had been present at his confusion, and to them he declared his purpose of going. There was
nothing to be done in the city by him. The Consul was not to be reached. Catiline himself was
too closely watched for personal action. He would join the army at Fæsulæ and then return and
burn the city. His friends, Lentulus, Cethegus, and the others, were to remain and be ready
for fire and slaughter as soon as Catiline with his army should appear before the walls. He
went, and Cicero had been so far successful.

But these men, Lentulus, Cethegus, and the other Senators, though they had not dared to sit
near Catiline in the Senate, or to speak a word to him, went about their work zealously when
evening had come. A report was spread among the people that the Consul had taken upon himself
to drive a citizen into exile. Catiline, the ill-used Catiline--Catiline, the friend of the
people, had, they said, gone to Marseilles in order that he might escape the fury of the tyrant
Consul. In this we see the jealousy of Romans as to the infliction of any punishment by an
individual officer on a citizen. It was with a full knowledge of what was likely to come that
Cicero had ironically declared that he only advised the conspirator to go. The feeling was
so strong that on the next morning he found himself compelled to address the people on the
subject. Then was uttered the second Catiline oration, which was spoken in the open air to
the citizens at large. Here too there are words, among those with which he began his speech,
almost as familiar to us as the "Quousque tandem"--"Abiit; excessit; evasit; erupit!" This
Catiline, says Cicero, this pest of his country, raging in his madness, I have turned out of
the city. If you like it better, I have expelled him by my very words. "He has departed. He
has fled. He has gone out from among us. He has broken away!" "I have made this conspiracy
plain to you all, as I said I would, unless indeed there may be some one here who does not
believe that the friends of Catiline will do the same as Catiline would have done. But there
is no time now for soft measures. We have to be strong-handed. There is one thing I will do
for these men. Let them too go out, so that Catiline shall not pine for them. I will show them
the road. He has gone by the Via Aurelia. If they will hurry they may catch him before night."
He implies by this that the story about Marseilles was false. Then he speaks with irony of
himself as that violent Consul who could drive citizens into exile by the very breath of his
mouth. "Ego vehemens ille consul qui verbo cives in exsilium ejicio." So he goes on, in truth
defending himself, but leading them with him to take part in the accusation which he intends
to bring against the chief conspirators who remain in the city. If they too will go, they may
go unscathed; if they choose to remain, let them look to themselves.

Through it all we can see there is but one thing that he fears--that he shall be driven by
the exigencies of the occasion to take some steps which shall afterward be judged not to have
been strictly legal, and which shall put him into the power of his enemies when the day of
his ascendency shall have passed away. It crops out repeatedly in these speeches.[202] He seems
to be aware that some over-strong measure will be forced upon him for which he alone will be
held responsible. If he can only avoid that, he will fear nothing else; if he cannot avoid
it, he will encounter even that danger. His foresight was wonderfully accurate. The strong
hand was used, and the punishment came upon him, not from his enemies but from his friends,
almost to the bursting of his heart.

Though the Senate had decreed that the Consuls were to see that the Republic should take no
harm, and though it was presumed that extraordinary power was thereby conferred, it is evident
that no power was conferred of inflicting punishment. Antony, as Cicero's colleague, was nothing.
The authority, the responsibility, the action were, and were intended, to remain with Cicero.
He could not legally banish any one. It was only too evident that there must be much slaughter.
There was the army of rebels with which it would be necessary to fight. Let them go, these
rebels within the city, and either join the army and get themselves killed, or else disappear,
whither they would, among the provinces. The object of this second Catiline oration, spoken
to the people, was to convince the remaining conspirators that they had better go, and to teach
the citizens generally that in giving such counsel he was "banishing" no one. As far as the
citizens were concerned he was successful; but he did not induce the friends of Catiline to
follow their chief. This took place on the 9th of November. After the oration the Senate met
again, and declared Catiline and Mallius to be public enemies.

Twenty-four days elapsed before the third speech was spoken--twenty-four days during which
Rome must have been in a state of very great fever. Cicero was actively engaged in unravelling
the plots the details of which were still being carried on within the city; but nevertheless
he made that speech for Murena before the judicial bench of which I gave an account in the
last chapter, and also probably another for Piso, of which we have nothing left. We cannot
but marvel that he should have been able at such a time to devote his mind to such subjects,
and carefully to study all the details of legal cases. It was only on October 21st that Murena
had been elected Consul; and yet on the 20th of November Cicero defended him with great skill
on a charge of bribery. There is an ease, a playfulness, a softness, a drollery about this
speech which appears to be almost incompatible with the stern, absorbing realities and great
personal dangers in the midst of which he was placed; but the agility of his mind was such
that there appears to have been no difficulty to him in these rapid changes.

On the same day, the 20th of November, when Cicero was defending Murena, the plot was being
carried on at the house of a certain Roman lady named Sempronia. It was she of whom Sallust
said that she danced better than became an honest woman. If we can believe Sallust, she was
steeped in luxury and vice. At her house a most vile project was hatched for introducing into
Rome Rome's bitterest foreign foes. There were in the city at this time certain delegates from
a people called the Allobroges, who inhabited the lower part of Savoy. The Allobroges were
of Gaulish race. They were warlike, angry, and at the present moment peculiarly discontented
with Rome. There had been certain injuries, either real or presumed, respecting which these
delegates had been sent to the city. There they had been delayed, and fobbed off with official
replies which gave no satisfaction, and were supposed to be ready to do any evil possible to
the Republic. What if they could be got to go back suddenly to their homes, and bring a legion
of red-haired Gauls to assist the conspirators in burning down Rome? A deputation from the
delegates came to Sempronia's house and there met the conspirators--Lentulus and others. They
entered freely into the project; but having, as was usual with foreign embassies at Rome, a
patron or peculiar friend of their own among the aristocracy, one Fabius Sanga by name, they
thought it well to consult him.[203] Sanga, as a matter of course, told everything to our astute
Consul.

Then the matter was arranged with more than all the craft of a modern inspector of police.
The Allobroges were instructed to lend themselves to the device, stipulating, however, that
they should have a written signed authority which they could show to their rulers at home.
The written signed documents were given to them. With certain conspirators to help them out
of the city they were sent upon their way. At a bridge over the Tiber they were stopped by
Cicero's emissaries. There was a feigned fight, but no blood was shed; and the ambassadors
with their letters were brought home to the Consul.

We are astonished at the marvellous folly of these conspirators, so that we could hardly have
believed the story had it not been told alike by Cicero and by Sallust, and had not allusion
to the details been common among later writers.[204] The ambassadors were taken at the Milvian
bridge early on the morning of the 3d of December, and in the course of that day Cicero sent
for the leaders of the conspiracy to come to him. Lentulus, who was then Prætor, Cethegus,
Gabinius, and Statilius all obeyed the summons. They did not know what had occurred, and probably
thought that their best hope of safety lay in compliance. Cæparius was also sent for, but he
for the moment escaped--in vain; for before two days were over he had been taken and put to
death with the others. Cicero again called the Senate together, and entered the meeting leading
the guilty Prætor by the hand. Here the offenders were examined and practically acknowledged
their guilt. The proofs against them were so convincing that they could not deny it. There
were the signatures of some; arms were found hidden in the house of another. The Senate decreed
that the men should be kept in durance till some decision as to their fate should have been
pronounced. Each of them was then given in custody to some noble Roman of the day. Lentulus
the Prætor was confided to the keeping of a Censor, Cethegus to Cornificius, Statilius to Cæsar,
Gabinius to Crassus, and Cæparius, who had not fled very far before he was taken, to one Terentius.
We can imagine how willingly would Crassus and Cæsar have let their men go, had they dared.
But Cicero was in the ascendant. Cæsar, whom we can imagine to have understood that the hour
had not yet come for putting an end to the effete Republic, and to have perceived also that
Catiline was no fit helpmate for him in such a work, must bide his time, and for the moment
obey. That he was inclined to favor the conspirators there is no doubt; but at present he could
befriend them only in accordance with the law. The Allobroges were rewarded. The Prætors in
the city who had assisted Cicero were thanked. To Cicero himself a supplication was decreed.
A supplication was, in its origin, a thanksgiving to the gods on account of a victory, but
had come to be an honor shown to the General who had gained the victory. In this case it was
simply a means of adding glory to Cicero, and was peculiar, as hitherto the reward had only
been conferred for military service.[205] Remembering that, we can understand what at the time
must have been the feeling in Rome as to the benefits conferred by the activity and patriotism
of the Consul.

On the evening of the same day, the 3d of December, Cicero again addressed the people, explaining
to them what he had done, and what he had before explained in the Senate. This was the third
Catiline speech, and for rapid narrative is perhaps surpassed by nothing that he ever spoke.
He explains again the motives by which he had been actuated; and in doing so extols the courage,
the sagacity, the activity of Catiline, while he ridicules the folly and the fury of the others.[206]
Had Catiline remained, he says, we should have been forced to fight with him here in the city;
but with Lentulus the sleepy, and Cassius the fat, and Cethegus the mad, it has been comparatively
easy to deal. It was on this account that he had got rid of him, knowing that their presence
would do no harm. Then he reminds the people of all that the gods have done for them, and addresses
them in language which makes one feel that they did believe in their gods. It is one instance,
one out of many which history and experience afford us, in which an honest and a good man has
endeavored to use for salutary purposes a faith in which he has not himself participated. Does
the bishop of to-day, when he calls upon his clergy to pray for fine weather, believe that
the Almighty will change the ordained seasons, and cause his causes to be inoperative because
farmers are anxious for their hay or for their wheat? But he feels that when men are in trouble
it is well that they should hold communion with the powers of heaven. So much also Cicero believed,
and therefore spoke as he did on this occasion. As to his own religious views, I shall say
something in a future chapter.

Then in a passage most beautiful for its language, though it is hardly in accordance with our
idea of the manner in which a man should speak of himself, he explains his own ambition: "For
all which, my fellow-countrymen, I ask for no other recompense, no ornament or honor, no monument
but that this day may live in your memories. It is within your breasts that I would garner
and keep fresh my triumph, my glory, the trophies of my exploits. No silent, voiceless statue,
nothing which can be bestowed upon the worthless, can give me delight. Only by your remembrance
can my fortunes be nurtured--by your good words, by the records which you shall cause to be
written, can they be strengthened and perpetuated. I do think that this day, the memory of
which, I trust, may be eternal, will be famous in history because the city has been preserved,
and because my Consulship has been glorious."[207] He ends the paragraph by an allusion to
Pompey, admitting Pompey to a brotherhood of patriotism and praise. We shall see how Pompey
repaid him.

How many things must have been astir in his mind when he spoke those words of Pompey! In the
next sentence he tells the people of his own danger. He has taken care of their safety; it
is for them to take care of his.[208] But they, these Quirites, these Roman citizens, these
masters of the world, by whom everything was supposed to be governed, could take care of no
one; certainly not of themselves, as certainly not of another. They could only vote, now this
way and now that, as somebody might tell them, or more probably as somebody might pay them.
Pompey was coming home, and would soon be the favorite. Cicero must have felt that he had deserved
much of Pompey, but was by no means sure that the debt of gratitude would be paid.

Now we come to the fourth or last Catiline oration, which was made to the Senate, convened
on the 5th of December with the purpose of deciding the fate of the leading conspirators who
were held in custody. We learn to what purport were three of the speeches made during this
debate--those of Cæsar and of Cato and of Cicero. The first two are given to us by Sallust,
but we can hardly think that we have the exact words. The Cæsarean spirit which induced Sallust
to ignore altogether the words of Cicero would have induced him to give his own representation
of the other two, even though we were to suppose that he had been able to have them taken down
by short-hand writers--Cicero's words, we have no doubt, with such polishing as may have been
added to the short-hand writers' notes by Tiro, his slave and secretary. The three are compatible
each with the other, and we are entitled to believe that we know the line of argument used
by the three orators.

Silanus, one of the Consuls elect, began the debate by counselling death. We may take it for
granted that he had been persuaded by Cicero to make this proposition. During the discussion
he trembled at the consequences, and declared himself for an adjournment of their decision
till they should have dealt with Catiline. Murena, the other Consul elect, and Catulus, the
Prince of the Senate,[209] spoke for death. Tiberius Nero, grandfather of Tiberius the Emperor,
made that proposition for adjournment to which Silanus gave way. Then--or I should rather say
in the course of the debate, for we do not know who else may have spoken--Cæsar got up and
made his proposition. His purpose was to save the victims, but he knew well that, with such
a spirit abroad as that existing in the Senate and the city, he could only do so not by absolving
but by condemning. Wicked as these men might be, abominably wicked it was, he said, for the
Senate to think of their own dignity rather than of the enormity of the crime. As they could
not, he suggested, invent any new punishment adequate to so abominable a crime, it would be
better that they should leave the conspirators to be dealt with by the ordinary laws. It was
thus that, cunningly, he threw out the idea that as Senators they had no power of death. He
did not dare to tell them directly that any danger would menace them, but he exposed the danger
skilfully before their eyes. "Their crimes," he says again, "deserve worse than any torture
you can inflict. But men generally recollect what comes last. When the punishment is severe,
men will remember the severity rather than the crime." He argues all this extremely well. The
speech is one of great ingenuity, whether the words be the words of Sallust or of Cæsar. We
may doubt, indeed, whether the general assertion he made as to death had much weight with the
Senators when he told them that death to the wicked was a relief, whereas life was a lasting
punishment; but when he went on to remind them of the Lex Porcia, by which the power of punishing
a Roman citizen, even under the laws, was limited to banishment, unless by a plebiscite of
the people generally ordering death, then he was efficacious. He ended by proposing that the
goods of the conspirators should be sold, and that the men should be condemned to imprisonment
for life, each in some separate town. This would, I believe, have been quite as illegal as
the death-sentence, but it would not have been irrevocable. The Senate, or the people, in the
next year could have restored to the men their liberty, and compensated them for their property.
Cicero was determined that the men should die. They had not obeyed him by leaving the city,
and he was convinced that while they lived the conspiracy would live also. He fully understood
the danger, and resolved to meet it. He replied to Cæsar, and with infinite skill refrained
from the expression of any strong opinion, while he led his hearers to the conviction that
death was necessary. For himself he had been told of his danger; "but if a man be brave in
his duty death cannot be disgraceful to him; to one who had reached the honors of the Consulship
it could not be premature; to no wise man could it be a misery." Though his brother, though
his wife, though his little boy, and his daughter just married were warning him of his peril,
not by all that would he be influenced. "Do you," he says, "Conscript Fathers, look to the
safety of the Republic. These are not the Gracchi, nor Saturninus, who are brought to you for
judgment--men who broke the laws, indeed, and therefore suffered death, but who still were
not unpatriotic. These men had sworn to burn the city, to slay the Senate, to force Catiline
upon you as a ruler. The proofs of this are in your own hands. It was for me, as your Consul,
to bring the facts before you. Now it is for you, at once, before night, to decide what shall
be done. The conspirators are very many; it is not only with these few that you are dealing.
On whatever you decide, decide quickly. Cæsar tells you of the Sempronian law[210]--the law,
namely, forbidding the death of a Roman citizen--but can he be regarded as a citizen who has
been found in arms against the city?" Then there is a fling at Cæsar's assumed clemency, showing
us that Cæsar had already endeavored to make capital out of that virtue which he displayed
afterward so signally at Alesia and Uxellodunum. Then again he speaks of himself in words so
grand that it is impossible but to sympathize with him: "Let Scipio's name be glorious--he
by whose wisdom and valor Hannibal was forced out of Italy. Let Africanus be praised loudly,
who destroyed Carthage and Numantia, the two cities which were most hostile to Rome. Let Paulus
be regarded as great--he whose triumph that great King Perses adorned. Let Marius be held in
undying honor, who twice saved Italy from foreign yoke. Let Pompey be praised above all, whose
noble deeds are as wide as the sun's course. Perhaps among them there may be a spot, too, for
me; unless, indeed, to win provinces to which we may take ourselves in exile is more than to
guard that city to which the conquerors of provinces may return in safety." The last words
of the orator also are fine: "Therefore, Conscript Fathers, decide wisely and without fear.
Your own safety, and that of your wives and children, that of your hearths and altars, the
temples of your gods, the homes contained in your city, your liberty, the welfare of Italy
and of the whole Republic are at stake. It is for you to decide. In me you have a Consul who
will obey your decrees, and will see that they be made to prevail while the breath of life
remains to him." Cato then spoke advocating death, and the Senate decreed that the men should
die. Cicero himself led Lentulus down to the vaulted prison below, in which executioners were
ready for the work, and the other four men were made to follow. A few minutes afterward, in
the gleaming of the evening, when Cicero was being led home by the applauding multitude, he
was asked after the fate of the conspirators. He answered them but by one word "Vixerunt"--there
is said to have been a superstition with the Romans as to all mention of death--"They have
lived their lives."

As to what was being done outside Rome with the army of conspirators in Etruria, it is not
necessary for the biographer of Cicero to say much. Catiline fought, and died fighting. The
conspiracy was then over. On the 31st of December Cicero retired from his office, and Catiline
fell at the battle of Pistoia on the 5th of January following, B.C. 62.

A Roman historian writing in the reign of Tiberius has thought it worth his while to remind
us that a great glory was added to Cicero's consular year by the birth of Augustus--him who
afterward became Augustus Cæsar.[211] Had a Roman been living now, he might be excused for
saying that it was an honor to Augustus to have been born in the year of Cicero's Consulship.

CHAPTER X.

CICERO AFTER HIS CONSULSHIP.

The idea that the great Consul had done illegally in putting citizens to death was not allowed
to lie dormant even for a day. It must be remembered that a decree of the Senate had no power
as a law. The laws could be altered, or even a new law made, only by the people. Such was the
constitution of the Republic. Further on, when Cicero will appeal as, in fact, on trial for
the offence so alleged to have been committed, I shall have to discuss the matter; but the
point was raised against him, even in the moment of his triumph, as he was leaving the Consulship.
The reiteration of his self-praise had created for him many enemies. It had turned friends
against him, and had driven men even of his own party to ask themselves whether all this virtue
was to be endured. When a man assumes to be more just than his neighbors there will be many
ways found of throwing in a shell against him. It was customary for a Consul when he vacated
his office to make some valedictory speech. Cicero was probably expected to take full advantage
of the opportunity. From other words which have come from him, on other occasions but on the
same subject, it would not be difficult to compose such a speech as he might have spoken. But
there were those who were already sick of hearing him say that Rome had been saved by his intelligence
and courage. We can imagine what Cæsar might have said among his friends of the expediency
of putting down this self-laudatory Consul. As it was, Metellus Nepos, one of the Tribunes,
forbade the retiring officer to do more than take the oath usual on leaving office, because
he had illegally inflicted death upon Roman citizens. Metellus, as Tribune, had the power of
stopping any official proceeding. We hear from Cicero himself that he was quite equal to the
occasion. He swore, on the spur of the moment, a solemn oath, not in accordance with the form
common to Consuls on leaving office, but to the effect that during his Consulship Rome had
been saved by his work alone.[212] We have the story only as it is told by Cicero himself,
who avers that the people accepted the oath as sworn with exceeding praise.[213] That it was
so we may, I think, take as true. There can be no doubt as to Cicero's popularity at this moment,
and hardly a doubt also as to the fact that Metellus was acting in agreement with Cæsar, and
also in accord with the understood feelings of Pompey, who was absent with his army in the
East. This Tribune had been till lately an officer under Pompey, and went into office together
with Cæsar, who in that year became Prætor. This, probably, was the beginning of the party
which two years afterward formed the first Triumvirate, B.C. 60. It was certainly now, in the
year succeeding the Consulship of Cicero, that Cæsar, as Prætor, began his great career.

[Sidenote: B.C. 62, ætat. 45.]

It becomes manifest to us, as we read the history of the time, that the Dictator of the future
was gradually entertaining the idea that the old forms of the Republic were rotten, and that
any man who intended to exercise power in Rome or within the Roman Empire must obtain it and
keep it by illegal means. He had probably adhered to Catiline's first conspiracy, but only
with such moderate adhesion as enabled him to withdraw when he found that his companions were
not fit for the work. It is manifest that he sympathized with the later conspiracy, though
it may be doubted whether he himself had ever been a party to it. When the conspiracy had been
crushed by Cicero, he had given his full assent to the crushing of it. We have seen how loudly
he condemned the wickedness of the conspirators in his endeavor to save their lives. But, through
it all, there was a well-grounded conviction in his mind that Cicero, with all his virtues,
was not practical. Not that Cicero was to him the same as Cato, who with his Stoic grandiloquence
must, to his thinking, have been altogether useless. Cicero, though too virtuous for supreme
rule, too virtuous to seize power and hold it, too virtuous to despise as effete the institutions
of the Republic, was still a man so gifted, and capable in so many things, as to be very great
as an assistant, if he would only condescend to assist. It is in this light that Cæsar seems
to have regarded Cicero as time went on; admiring him, liking him, willing to act with him
if it might be possible, but not the less determined to put down all the attempts at patriotic
republican virtue in which the orator delighted to indulge. Mr. Forsyth expresses an opinion
that Cæsar, till he crossed the Rubicon after his ten years' fighting in Gaul, had entertained
no settled plan of overthrowing the Constitution. Probably not; nor even then. It may be doubted
whether Cæsar ever spoke to himself of overthrowing the Constitution. He came gradually to
see that power and wealth were to be obtained by violent action, and only by violent action.
He had before him the examples of Marius and Sulla, both of whom had enjoyed power and had
died in their beds. There was the example, also, of others who, walking unwarily in those perilous
times, had been banished as was Verres, or killed as was Catiline. We can easily understand
that he, with his great genius, should have acknowledged the need both of courage and caution.
Both were exercised when he consented to be absent from Rome, and almost from Italy, during
the ten years of the Gallic wars. But this, I think, is certain, that from the time in which
his name appears prominent--from the period, namely, of the Catiline conspiracy--he had determined
not to overthrow the Constitution, but so to carry himself, amid the great affairs of the day,
as not to be overthrown himself.

Of what nature was the intercourse between him and Pompey when Pompey was still absent in the
East we do not know; but we can hardly doubt that some understanding had begun to exist. Of
this Cicero was probably aware. Pompey was the man whom Cicero chose to regard as his party-leader,
not having himself been inured to the actual politics of Rome early enough in life to put himself
forward as the leader of his party. It had been necessary for him, as a "novus homo," to come
forward and work as an advocate, and then as an administrative officer of the State, before
he took up with politics. That this was so I have shown by quoting the opening words of his
speech Pro Lege Manilia. Proud as he was of the doings of his Consulship, he was still too
new to his work to think that thus he could claim to stand first. Nor did his ambition lead
him in that direction. He desired personal praise rather than personal power. When in the last
Catiline oration to the people he speaks of the great men of the Republic--of the two Scipios,
and of Paulus Æmilius and of Marius--he adds the name of Pompey to these names; or gives, rather,
to Pompey greater glory than to any of them; "Anteponatur omnibus Pompeius." This was but a
few days before Metellus as Tribune had stopped him in his speech--at the instigation, probably,
of Cæsar, and in furtherance of Pompey's views. Pompey and Cæsar could agree, at any rate,
in this--that they did not want such a one as Cicero to interfere with them.

All of which Cicero himself perceived. The specially rich, province of Macedonia, which would
have been his had he chosen to take it on quitting the Consulship, he made over to Antony--no
doubt as a bribe, as with us one statesman may resign a special office to another to keep that
other from kicking over the traces. Then Gaul became his province, as allotted--Cisalpine Gaul,
as northern Italy was then called; a province less rich in plunder and pay than Macedonia.
But Cicero wanted no province, and had contrived that this should be confided to Metellus Celer,
the brother of Nepos, who, having been Prætor when he himself was Consul, was entitled to a
government. This too was a political bribe. If courtesy to Cæsar, if provinces given up here
and there to Antonys and Metelluses, if flattery lavished on Pompey could avail anything, he
could not afford to dispense with such aids. It all availed nothing. From this time forward,
for the twenty years which were to run before his death, his life was one always of trouble
and doubt, often of despair, and on many occasions of actual misery. The source of this was
that Pompey whom, with divine attributes, he had extolled above all other Romans.

The first extant letter written by Cicero after his Consulship was addressed to Pompey.[214]
Pompey was still in the East, but had completed his campaigns against Mithridates successfully.
Cicero begins by congratulating him, as though to do so were the purpose of his letter. Then
he tells the victorious General that there were some in Rome not so well pleased as he was
at these victories. It is supposed that he alluded here to Cæsar; but, if so, he probably misunderstood
the alliance which was already being formed between Cæsar and Pompey. After that comes the
real object of the epistle. He had received letters from Pompey congratulating him in very
cold language as to the glories of his Consulship. He had expected much more than that from
the friend for whom he had done so much. Still, he thanks his friend, explaining that the satisfaction
really necessary to him was the feeling that he had behaved well to his friend. If his friend
were less friendly to him in return, then would the balance of friendship be on his side. If
Pompey were not bound to him, Cicero, by personal gratitude, still would he be bound by necessary
co-operation in the service of the Republic. But, lest Pompey should misunderstand him, he
declares that he had expected warmer language in reference to his Consulship, which he believes
to have been withheld by Pompey lest offence should be given to some third person. By this
he means Cæsar, and those who were now joining themselves to Cæsar. Then he goes on to warn
him as to the future: "Nevertheless, when you return, you will find that my actions have been
of such a nature that, even though you may loom larger than Scipio, I shall be found worthy
to be accepted as your Lælius."[215]

Infinite care had been given to the writing of this letter, and sharp had been the heart-burnings
which dictated it. It was only by asserting that he, on his own part, was satisfied with his
own fidelity as a friend, that Cicero could express his dissatisfaction at Pompey's coldness.
It was only by continuing to lavish upon Pompey such flattery as was contained in the reference
to Scipio, in which a touch of subtle irony is mixed with the flattery, that he could explain
the nature of the praise which had, he thought, been due to himself. There is something that
would have been abject in the nature of these expressions, had it not been Roman in the excess
of the adulation. But there is courage in the letter, too, when he tells his correspondent
what he believes to have been the cause of the coldness of which he complains: "Quod verere
ne cujus animum offenderes"--"Because you fear lest you should give offence to some one." But
let me tell you, he goes on to say, that my Consulship has been of such a nature that you,
Scipio, as you are, must admit me as your friend.

In these words we find a key to the whole of Cicero's connection with the man whom he recognizes
as his political leader. He was always dissatisfied with Pompey; always accusing Pompey in
his heart of ingratitude and insincerity; frequently speaking to Atticus with bitter truth
of the man's selfishness and incapacity, even of his cruelty and want of patriotism; nicknaming
him because of his absurdities; declaring of him that he was minded to be a second Sulla; but
still clinging to him as the political friend and leader whom he was bound to follow. In their
earlier years, when he could have known personally but little of Pompey, because Pompey was
generally absent from Rome, he had taken it into his head to love the man. He had been called
"Magnus;" he had been made Consul long before the proper time; he had been successful on behalf
of the Republic, and so far patriotic. He had hitherto adhered to the fame of the Republic.
At any rate, Cicero had accepted him, and could never afterward bring himself to be disloyal
to the leader with whom he had professed to act. But the feeling evinced in this letter was
carried on to the end. He had been, he was, he would be, true to his political connection with
Pompey; but of Pompey's personal character to himself he had nothing but complaints to make.

[Sidenote: B.C. 62, ætat. 45.]

We have two other letters written by Cicero in this year, the first of which is in answer to
one from Metellus Celer to him, also extant. Metellus wrote to complain of the ill-treatment
which he thought he had received from Cicero in the Senate, and from the Senate generally.
Cicero writes back at much greater length to defend himself, and to prove that he had behaved
as a most obliging friend to his correspondent, though he had received a gross affront from
his correspondent's brother Nepos. Nepos had prevented him in that matter of the speech. It
is hardly necessary to go into the question of this quarrel, except in so far as it may show
how the feeling which led to Cicero's exile was growing up among many of the aristocracy in
Rome. There was a counterplot going on at the moment--a plot on the behalf of the aristocracy
for bringing back Pompey to Rome, not only with glory but with power, probably originating
in a feeling that Pompey would be a more congenial master than Cicero. It was suggested that
as Pompey had been found good in all State emergencies--for putting down the pirates, for instance,
and for conquering Mithridates--he would be the man to contend in arms with Catiline. Catiline
was killed before the matter could be brought to an issue, but still the conspiracy went on,
based on the jealousy which was felt in regard to Cicero. This man, who had declared so often
that he had served his country, and who really had crushed the Catilinarians by his industry
and readiness, might, after all, be coming forward as another Sulla, and looking to make himself
master by dint of his virtues and his eloquence. The hopelessness of the condition of the Republic
may be recognized in the increasing conspiracies which were hatched on every side. Metellus
Nepos was sent home from Asia in aid of the conspiracy, and got himself made Tribune, and stopped
Cicero's speech. In conjunction with Cæsar, who was Prætor, he proposed his new law for the
calling of Pompey to their aid. Then there was a fracas between him and Cæsar on the one side
and Cato on the other, in which Cato at last was so far victorious that both Cæsar and Metellus
were stopped in the performance of their official duties. Cæsar was soon reinstated, but Metellus
Nepos returned to Pompey in the East, and nothing came of the conspiracy. It is only noticed
here as evidence of the feeling which existed as to Cicero in Rome, and as explaining the irritation
on both sides indicated in the correspondence between Cicero and Metellus Celer, the brother
of Nepos,[216] whom Cicero had procured the government of Gaul.

The third letter from Cicero in this year was to Sextius, who was then acting as Quæstor--or
Proquæstor, as Cicero calls him--with Antony as Proconsul in Macedonia. It is specially interesting
as telling us that the writer had just completed the purchase of a house in Rome from Crassus
for a sum amounting to about £30,000 of our money. There was probably no private mansion in
Rome of greater pretension. It had been owned by Livius Drusus, the Tribune--a man of colossal
fortune, as we are told by Mommsen--who was murdered at the door of it thirty years before.
It afterward passed into the hands of Crassus the rich, and now became the property of Cicero.
We shall hear how it was destroyed during his exile, and how fraudulently made over to the
gods, and then how restored to Cicero, and how rebuilt at the public expense. The history of
the house has been so well written that we know even the names of Cicero's two successors in
it, Censorinus and Statilius.[217]

It is interesting to know the sort of house which Cicero felt to be suitable to his circumstances,
for by that we may guess what his circumstances were. In making this purchase he is supposed
to have abandoned the family house in which his father had lived next door to the new mansion,
and to have given it up to his brother. Hence we may argue that he had conceived himself to
have risen in worldly circumstances. Nevertheless, we are informed by himself in this letter
to Sextius that he had to borrow money for the occasion--so much so that, being a man now indebted,
he might be supposed to be ripe for any conspiracy. Hence has come to us a story through Aulus
Gellius, the compiler of anecdotes, to the effect that Cicero was fain to borrow this money
from a client whose cause he undertook in requital for the favor so conferred. Aulus Gellius
collected his stories two centuries afterward for the amusement of his children, and has never
been regarded as an authority in matters for which confirmation has been wanting. There is
no allusion to such borrowing from a client made by any contemporary. In this letter to Sextius,
in which he speaks jokingly of his indebtedness, he declares that he has been able to borrow
any amount he wanted at six per cent--twelve being the ordinary rate--and gives as a reason
for this the position which he has achieved by his services to the State. Very much has been
said of the story, as though the purchaser of the house had done something of which he ought
to have been ashamed, but this seems to have sprung entirely from the idea that a man who,
in the midst of such wealth as prevailed at Rome, had practised so widely and so successfully
the invaluable profession of an advocate, must surely have taken money for his services. He
himself has asserted that he took none, and all the evidence that we have goes to show that
he spoke the truth. Had he taken money, even as a loan, we should have heard of it from nearer
witnesses than Aulus Gellius, if, as Aulus Gellius tells us, it had become known at the time.
But because he tells his friend that he has borrowed money for the purpose, he is supposed
to have borrowed it in a disgraceful manner! It will be found that all the stones most injurious
to Cicero's reputation have been produced in the same manner. His own words have been misinterpreted--either
the purport of them, if spoken in earnest, or their bearing, if spoken in joke--and then accusations
have been founded on them.[218]

Another charge of dishonest practice was about this time made against Cicero without a grain
of evidence, though indeed the accusations so made, and insisted upon, apparently from a feeling
that Cicero cannot surely have been altogether clean when all others were so dirty, are too
numerous to receive from each reader's judgment that indignant denial to which each is entitled.
The biographer cannot but fear that when so much mud has been thrown some will stick, and therefore
almost hesitates to tell of the mud, believing that no stain of this kind has been in truth
deserved.

It seems that Antony, Cicero's colleague in the Consulship, who became Proconsul in Macedonia,
had undertaken to pay some money to Cicero. Why the money was to be paid we do not know, but
there are allusions in Cicero's letters to Atticus to one Teucris (a Trojan woman), and it
seems that Antony was designated by the nickname. Teucris is very slow at paying his money,
and Cicero is in want of it. But perhaps it will be as well not to push the matter. He, Antony,
is to be tried for provincial peculation, and Cicero declares that the case is so bad that
he cannot defend his late colleague. Hence have arisen two different suspicions: one that Antony
had agreed to make over to Cicero a share of the Macedonian plunder in requital of Cicero's
courtesy in giving up the province which had been allotted to himself; the second, that Antony
was to pay Cicero for defending him. As to the former, Cicero himself alludes to such a report
as being common in Macedonia, and as having been used by Antony himself as an excuse for increased
rapine. But this has been felt to be incredible, and has been allowed to fall to the ground
because of the second accusation. But in support of that there is no word of evidence,[219]
whereas the tenor of the story as told by Cicero himself is against it. Is it likely, would
it be possible, that Cicero should have begun his letter to Atticus by complaining that he
could not get from Antony money wanted for a peculiar purpose--it was wanted for his new house--and
have gone on in the same letter to say that this might be as well, after all, as he did not
intend to perform the service for which the money was to be paid? The reader will remember
that the accusation is based solely on Cicero's own statement that Antony was negligent in
paying to him money that had been promised. In all these accusations the evidence against Cicero,
such as it is, is brought exclusively from Cicero's own words. Cicero did afterward defend
this Antony, as we learn from his speech Pro Domo Suâ; but his change of purpose in that respect
has nothing to do with the argument.

[Sidenote: B.C. 62, ætat. 45.]

We have two speeches extant made this year: one on behalf of P. Sulla, nephew to the Dictator;
the other for Archias the Greek scholar and poet, who had been Cicero's tutor and now claimed
to be a citizen of Rome. I have already given an extract from this letter, as showing the charm
of words with which Cicero could recommend the pursuit of literature to his hearers. The whole
oration is a beautiful morsel of Latinity, in which, however, strength of argument is lacking.
Cicero declares of Archias that he was so eminent in literature that, if not a Roman citizen,
he ought to be made one. The result is not known, but the literary world believes that the
citizenship was accorded to him.[220]

The speech on behalf of Sulla was more important, but still not of much importance. This Sulla,
as may be remembered, had been chosen as Consul with Autronius, two years before the Consulship
of Cicero, and he had then after his election been deposed for bribery, as had also Autronius.
L. Aurelius Cotta and L. Manlius Torquatus had been elected in their places. It has also been
already explained that the two rejected Consuls had on this account joined Catiline in his
first conspiracy. There can be no doubt that whether as Consuls or as rejected Consuls, and
on that account conspirators, their purpose was to use their position as aristocrats for robbing
the State. They were of the number of those to whom no other purpose was any longer possible.
Then there came Catiline's second conspiracy--the conspiracy which Cicero had crushed--and
there naturally rose the question whether from time to time this or the other noble Roman should
not be accused of having joined it. Many noble Romans had no doubt joined besides those who
had fallen fighting, or who had been executed in the dungeons. Accusations became very rife.
One Vettius accused Cæsar, the Prætor; but Cæsar, with that potentiality which was peculiar
to him, caused Vettius to be put into prison instead of going to prison himself. Many were
convicted and banished; among them Porcius Læca, Vargunteius, Servius Sulla, the brother of
him of whom we are now speaking, and Autronius his colleague. In the trial of these men Cicero
took no part. He was specially invited by Autronius, who was an old school-fellow, to defend
him, but he refused; indeed, he gave evidence against Autronius at the trial. But this Publius
Sulla he did defend, and defended successfully. He was joined in the case with Hortensius,
and declared that as to the matter of the former conspiracy he left all that to his learned
friend, who was concerned with political matters of that date.[221] He, Cicero, had known nothing
about them. The part of the oration which most interests us is that in which he defends himself
from the accusations somewhat unwisely made against himself personally by young Torquatus,
the son of him who had been raised to the Consulship in the place of P. Sulla. Torquatus had
called him a foreigner because he was a "novus homo," and had come from the municipality of
Arpinum, and had taunted him with being a king, because he had usurped authority over life
and death in regard to Lentulus and the other conspirators. He answers this very finely, and
does so without an ill-natured word to young Torquatus, whom, from respect to his father, he
desires to spare. "Do not," he says, "in future call me a foreigner, lest you be answered with
severity, nor a king, lest you be laughed at--unless, indeed, you think it king-like so to
live as to be a slave not only to no man but to no evil passion; unless you think it be king-like
to despise all lusts, to thirst for neither gold nor silver nor goods, to express yourself
freely in the Senate, to think more of services due to the people than of favors won from them,
to yield to none, and to stand firm against many. If this be king-like, then I confess that
I am a king." Sulla was acquitted, but the impartial reader will not the less feel sure that
he had been part and parcel with Catiline in the conspiracy. It is trusted that the impartial
reader will also remember how many honest, loyal gentlemen have in our own days undertaken
the causes of those whom they have known to be rebels, and have saved those rebels by their
ingenuity and eloquence.

At the end of this year, B.C. 62, there occurred a fracas in Rome which was of itself but of
little consequence to Rome, and would have been of none to Cicero but that circumstances grew
out of it which created for him the bitterest enemy he had yet encountered, and led to his
sorest trouble. This was the affair of Clodius and of the mysteries of the Bona Dea, and I
should be disposed to say that it was the greatest misfortune of his life, were it not that
the wretched results which sprung from it would have been made to spring from some other source
had that source not sufficed. I shall have to tell how it came to pass that Cicero was sent
into exile by means of the misconduct of Clodius; but I shall have to show also that the misconduct
of Clodius was but the tool which was used by those who were desirous of ridding themselves
of the presence of Cicero.

This Clodius, a young man of noble family and of debauched manners, as was usual with young
men of noble families, dressed himself up as a woman, and made his way in among the ladies
as they were performing certain religious rites in honor of the Bona Dea, or Goddess Cybele,
a matron goddess so chaste in her manners that no male was admitted into her presence. It was
specially understood that nothing appertaining to a man was to be seen on the occasion, not
even the portrait of one; and it may possibly have been the case that Clodius effected his
entrance among the worshipping matrons on this occasion simply because his doing so was an
outrage, and therefore exciting. Another reason was alleged. The rites in question were annually
held, now in the house of this matron and then of that, and during the occasion the very master
of the house was excluded from his own premises. They were now being performed under the auspices
of Pompeia, the wife of Julius Cæsar, the daughter of one Quintus Pompeius, and it was alleged
that Clodius came among the women worshippers for the sake of carrying on an intrigue with
Cæsar's wife. This was highly improbable, as Mr. Forsyth has pointed out to us, and the idea
was possibly used simply as an excuse to Cæsar for divorcing a wife of whom he was weary. At
any rate, when the scandal got abroad, he did divorce Pompeia, alleging that it did not suit
Cæsar to have his wife suspected.

[Sidenote: B.C. 61, ætat. 46.]

The story became known through the city, and early in January Cicero wrote to Atticus, telling
him the facts: "You have probably heard that Publius Clodius, the son of Appius, has been taken
dressed in a woman's clothes in the house of Caius Cæsar, where sacrifice was being made for
the people, and that he escaped by the aid of a female slave. You will be sorry to hear that
it has given rise to a great scandal."[222] A few days afterward Cicero speaks of it again
to Atticus at greater length, and we learn that the matter had been taken up by the magistrates
with the view of punishing Clodius. Cicero writes without any strong feeling of his own, explaining
to his friend that he had been at first a very Lycurgus in the affair, but that he is now tamed
down.[223] Then there is a third letter in which Cicero is indignant because certain men of
whom he disapproves, the Consul Piso among the number[224] are anxious to save this wicked
young nobleman from the punishment due to him; whereas others of whom he approves Cato among
the number, are desirous of seeing justice done. But it was no affair special to Cicero. Shortly
afterward he writes again to Atticus as to the result of the trial--for a trial did take place--and
explains to his friend how justice had failed. Atticus had asked him how it had come to pass
that he, Cicero, had not exerted himself as he usually did.[225] This letter, though there
is matter enough in it of a serious kind, yet jests with the Clodian affair so continually
as to make us feel that he attributed no importance to it as regarded himself. He had exerted
himself till Hortensius made a mistake as to the selection of the judges. After that he had
himself given evidence. An attempt was made to prove an alibi, but Cicero came forward to swear
that he had seen Clodius on the very day in question. There had, too, been an exchange of repartee
in the Senate between himself and Clodius after the acquittal, of which he gives the details
to his correspondent with considerable self-satisfaction. The passage does not enhance our
idea of the dignity of the Senate, or of the power of Roman raillery. It was known that Clodius
had been saved by the wholesale bribery of a large number of the judges. There had been twenty-five
for condemning against thirty-one for acquittal.[226] Cicero in the Catiline affair had used
a phrase with frequency by which he boasted that he had "found out" this and "found out" that--"comperisse
omnia." Clodius, in the discussion before the trial, throws this in his teeth: "Comperisse
omnia criminabatur." This gave rise to ill-feeling, and hurt Cicero much worse than the dishonor
done to the Bona Dea. As for that, we may say that he and the Senate and the judges cared personally
very little, although there was no doubt a feeling that it was wise to awe men's minds by the
preservation of religious respect. Cicero had cared but little about the trial; but as he had
been able to give evidence he had appeared as a witness, and enmity sprung from the words which
were spoken both on one side and on the other. Clodius was acquitted, which concerns us not
at all, and concerns Rome very little; but things had so come to pass at the trial that Cicero
had been very bitter, and that Clodius had become his enemy. When a man was wanted, three years
afterward, to take the lead in persecuting Cicero, Clodius was ready for the occasion.

While the expediency of putting Clodius on his trial was being discussed, Pompey had returned
from the East, and taken up his residence outside the city, because he was awaiting his triumph.
The General, to whom it was given to march through the city with triumphal glory, was bound
to make his first entrance after his victories with all his triumphal appendages, as though
he was at that moment returning from the war with all his warlike spoils around him. The usage
had obtained the strength of law, but the General was not on that account debarred from city
employment during the interval. The city must be taken out to him instead of his coming into
the city. Pompey was so great on his return from his Mithridatic victories that the Senate
went out to sit with him in the suburbs, as he could not sit with it within the walls. We find
him taking part in these Clodian discussions. Cicero at once writes of him to Athens with evident
dissatisfaction. When questioned about Clodius, Pompey had answered with the grand air of aristocrat.
Crassus on this occasion, between whom and Cicero there was never much friendship, took occasion
to belaud the late great Consul on account of his Catiline successes. Pompey, we are told,
did not bear this well.[227] Crassus had probably intended to produce some such effect. Then
Cicero had spoken in answer to the remarks of Crassus, very glibly, no doubt, and had done
his best to "show off" before Pompey, his new listener.[228] More than six years had passed
since Pompey could have heard him, and then Cicero's voice had not become potential in the
Senate. Cicero had praised Pompey with all the eloquence in his power. "Anteponatur omnibus
Pompeius," he had said, in the last Catiline oration to the Senate; and Pompey, though he had
not heard the words spoken, knew very well what had been said. Such oratory was never lost
upon those whom it most concerned the orator to make acquainted with it. But in return for
all this praise, for that Manilian oration which had helped to send him to the East, for continual
loyalty, Pompey had replied to Cicero with coldness. He would now let Pompey know what was
his standing in Rome. "If ever," he says to Atticus, "I was strong with my grand rhythm, with
my quick rhetorical passages, with enthusiasm, and with logic, I was so now. Oh, the noise
that I made on the occasion! You know what my voice can do. I need say no more about it, as
surely you must have heard me away there in Epirus." The reader, I trust, will have already
a sufficiently vivid idea of Cicero's character to understand the mingling of triumph and badinage,
with a spark of disappointment, which is here expressed. "This Pompey, though I have so true
to him, has not thought much of me--of me, the great Consul who saved Rome! He has now heard
what even Crassus has been forced to say about me. He shall hear me too, me myself, and perhaps
he will then know better." It was thus that Cicero's mind was at work while he was turning
his loud periods. Pompey was sitting next to him listening, by no means admiring his admirer
as that admirer expected to be admired. Cicero had probably said to himself that they two together,
Pompey and Cicero, might suffice to preserve the Republic. Pompey, not thinking much of the
Republic, was probably telling himself that he wanted no brother near the throne. When of two
men the first thinks himself equal to the second, the second will generally feel himself to
be superior to the first. Pompey would have liked Cicero better if his periods had not been
so round nor his voice so powerful. Not that Pompey was distinctly desirous of any throne.
His position at the moment was peculiar. He had brought back his victorious army from the East
to Brundisium, and had then disbanded his legions. I will quote here the opening words from
one of Mommsen's chapters:[229] "When Pompeius, after having transacted the affairs committed
to his charge, again turned his eyes toward home, he found, for the second time, the diadem
at his feet." I must say here that, while I acknowledge the German historian's research and
knowledge without any reserve, I cannot accept his deductions as to character. I do not believe
that Pompey found any diadem at his feet, or thought of any diadem, nor, according to my reading
of Roman history, had Marius or had Sulla; nor did Cæsar. The first who thought of that perpetual
rule--a rule to be perpetuated during the ruler's life, and to be handed down to his successors--was
Augustus. Marius, violent, self-seeking, and uncontrollable, had tumbled into supreme power;
and, had he not died, would have held it as long as he could, because it pleased his ambition
for the moment. Sulla, with a purpose, had seized it, yet seems never to have got beyond the
old Roman idea of a temporary Dictatorship. The old Roman horror of a king was present to these
Romans, even after they had become kings. Pompey, no doubt, liked to be first, and when he
came back from the East thought that by his deeds he was first, easily first. Whether Consul
year after year, as Marius had been, or Dictator, as Sulla had been, or Imperator, with a running
command over all the Romans, it was his idea still to adhere to the forms of the Republic.
Mommsen, foreseeing--if an historian can be said to foresee the future from his standing-point
in the past--that a master was to come for the Roman Empire, and giving all his sympathies
to the Cæsarean idea, despises Pompey because Pompey would not pick up the diadem. No such
idea ever entered Pompey's head. After a while he "Sullaturized"--was desirous of copying Sulla--to
use an excellent word which Cicero coined. When he was successfully opposed by those whom he
had thought inferior to himself, when he found that Cæsar had got the better of him, and that
a stronger body of Romans went with Cæsar than with him, then proscriptions, murder, confiscations,
and the seizing of dictatorial power presented themselves to his angry mind, but of permanent
despotic power there was, I think, no thought, nor, as far as I can read the records, had such
an idea been fixed in Cæsar's bosom. To carry on the old trade of Prætor, Consul, Proconsul,
and Imperator, so as to get what he could of power and wealth and dignity in the scramble,
was, I think, Cæsar's purpose. The rest grew upon him. As Shakspeare, sitting down to write
a play that might serve his theatre, composed some Lear or Tempest--that has lived and will
live forever, because of the genius which was unknown to himself--so did Cæsar, by his genius,
find his way to a power which he had not premeditated. A much longer time is necessary for
eradicating an idea from men's minds than a fact from their practice. This should be proved
to us by our own loyalty to the word "monarch," when nothing can be farther removed from a
monarchy than our own commonwealth. From those first breaches in republican practice which
the historian Florus dates back to the siege of Numantia,[230] B.C. 133, down far into the
reign of Augustus, it took a century and a quarter to make the people understand that there
was no longer a republican form of government, and to produce a leader who could himself see
that there was room for a despot.

Pompey had his triumph; but the same aristocratic airs which had annoyed Cicero had offended
others. He was shorn of his honors. Only two days were allowed for his processions. He was
irritated, jealous, and no doubt desirous of making his power felt; but he thought of no diadem.
Cæsar saw it all; and he thought of that conspiracy which we have since called the First Triumvirate.

[Sidenote: B.C. 62, 61, ætat. 45, 46.]

The two years to which this chapter has been given were uneventful in Cicero's life, and produced
but little of that stock of literature by which he has been made one of mankind's prime favorites.
Two discourses were written and published, and probably spoken, which are now lost--that, namely,
to the people against Metellus, in which, no doubt, he put forth all that he had intended to
say when Metellus stopped him from speaking at the expiration of his Consulship; the second,
against Clodius and Curio, in the Senate, in reference to the discreditable Clodian affair.
The fragments which we have of this contain those asperities which he retailed afterward in
his letter to Atticus, and are not either instructive or amusing. But we learn from these fragments
that Clodius was already preparing that scheme for entering the Tribunate by an illegal repudiation
of his own family rank, which he afterward carried out, to the great detriment of Cicero's
happiness. Of the speeches extant on behalf of Archias and P. Sulla I have spoken already.
We know of no others made during this period. We have one letter besides this to Atticus, addressed
to Antony, his former colleague, which, like many of his letters, was written solely for the
sake of popularity.

During these years he lived no doubt splendidly as one of the great men of the greatest city
in the world. He had his magnificent new mansion in Rome, and his various villas, which were
already becoming noted for their elegance and charms of upholstery and scenic beauty. Not only
had he climbed to the top of official life himself, but had succeeded in taking his brother
Quintus up with him. In the second of the two years, B.C. 61, Quintus had been sent out as
Governor or Proprætor to Asia, having then nothing higher to reach than the Consulship, which,
however, he never attained. This step in the life of Quintus has become famous by a letter
which the elder brother wrote to him in the second year of his office, to which reference will
be made in the next chapter.

So far all things seemed to have gone well with Cicero. He was high in esteem and authority,
powerful, rich, and with many people popular. But the student of his life now begins to see
that troubles are enveloping him. He had risen too high not to encounter envy, and had been
too loud in his own praise not to make those who envied him very bitter in their malice.

CHAPTER XI.

THE TRIUMVIRATE.

[Sidenote: B.C. 60, ætat. 47.]

I know of no great fact in history so impalpable, so shadowy, so unreal, as the First Triumvirate.
Every school-boy, almost every school-girl, knows that there was a First Triumvirate, and that
it was a political combination made by three great Romans of the day, Julius Cæsar, Pompey
the Great, and Crassus the Rich, for managing Rome among them. Beyond this they know little,
because there is little to know. That it was a conspiracy against the ordained government of
the day, as much so as that of Catiline, or Guy Faux, or Napoleon III., they do not know generally,
because Cæsar, who, though the youngest of the three, was the mainspring of it, rose by means
of it to such a galaxy of glory that all the steps by which he rose to it have been supposed
to be magnificent and heroic. But of the method in which this Triumvirate was constructed,
who has an idea? How was it first suggested, where, and by whom? What was it that the conspirators
combined to do? There was no purpose of wholesale murder like that of Catiline for destroying
the Senate, and of Guy Faux for blowing up the House of Lords. There was no plot arranged for
silencing a body of legislators like that of Napoleon. In these scrambles that are going on
every year for place and power, for provinces and plunder, let us help each other. If we can
manage to stick fast by each other, we can get all the power and nearly all the plunder. That,
said with a wink by one of the Triumvirate--Cæsar, let us say--and assented to with a nod by
Pompey and Crassus, was sufficient for the construction of such a conspiracy as that which
I presume to have been hatched when the First Triumvirate was formed.[231] Mommsen, who never
speaks of a Triumvirate under that name, except in his index,[232] where he has permitted the
word to appear for the guidance of persons less well instructed than himself, connects the
transaction which we call the First Triumvirate with a former coalition, which he describes
as having been made in (B.C. 71) the year before the Consulship of Pompey and Crassus. With
that we need not concern ourselves as we are dealing with the life of Cicero rather than with
Roman history, except to say that Cæsar, who was the motive power of the second coalition,
could have had no personal hand in that of 71. Though he had spent his early years in "harassing
the aristocracy," as Dean Merivale tells us, he had not been of sufficient standing in men's
minds to be put on a par with Pompey and Crassus. When this First Triumvirate was formed, as
the modern world generally calls it, or the second coalition between the democracy and the
great military leaders, as Mommsen with greater, but not with perfect, accuracy describes it,
Cæsar no doubt had at his fingers' ends the history of past years. Cæsar during his whole life
had been learning that no good could come to any one from an effete Senate, or from republican
forms which had lost all their salt. Democracy was in vogue with him; not, as I think, from
any philanthropic desire for equality; not from any far-seeing view of fraternal citizenship
under one great paternal lord--the study of politics had never then reached to that height--but
because it was necessary that some one, or perhaps some two or three, should prevail in the
coming struggle, and because he felt himself to be more worthy than others. He had no conscience
in the matter. Money was to him nothing. Another man's money was the same as his own--or better,
if he could get hold of it. That doctrine taught by Cicero that men are "ad justitiam natos"
must have been to him simply absurd. Blood was to him nothing. A friend was better than a foe,
and a live man than a dead. Blood-thirstiness was a passion unknown to him; but that tenderness
which with us creates a horror of blood was equally unknown. Pleasure was sweet to him; but
he was man enough to feel that a life of pleasure was contemptible. To pillage a city, to pilfer
his all from a rich man, to debauch a friend's wife, to give over a multitude of women and
children to slaughter, was as easy to him as to forgive an enemy. But nothing rankled with
him, and he could forgive an enemy. Of courage he had that better sort which can appreciate
and calculate danger, and then act as though there were none. Nothing was wrong to him but
what was injudicious. He could flatter, cajole, lie, deceive, and rob; nay, would think it
folly not to do so if to do so were expedient.[234] In this coalition he appears as supporting
and supported by the people. Therefore Mommsen speaks of him as "the democrat." Crassus is
called the ally of the democrats. It will be enough for us here to know that Crassus had achieved
his position in the Senate by his enormous wealth, and that it was because of his wealth, which
was essential to Cæsar, that he was admitted into the league. By means of his wealth he had
risen to power and had conquered and killed Spartacus, of the honor and glory of which Pompey
robbed him. Then he had been made Consul. When Cæsar had gone as Proprætor to Spain, Crassus
had found the money. Now Cæsar had come back, and was hand and glove with Crassus. When the
division of the spoil came, some years afterward--the spoil won by the Triumvirate--when Cæsar
had half perfected his grand achievements in Gaul, and Crassus had as yet been only a second
time Consul, he got himself to be sent into Syria, that by conquering the Parthians he might
make himself equal to Cæsar. We know how he and his son perished there, each of them probably
avoiding the last extremity of misery to a Roman--that of falling into the hands of a barbarian
enemy--by destroying himself. Than the life of Crassus nothing could be more contemptible;
than the death nothing more pitiable. "For Pompeius," says Mommsen, "such a coalition was certainly
a political suicide." As events turned out it became so, because Cæsar was the stronger man
of the two; but it is intelligible that at that time Pompey should have felt that he could
not lord it over the Senate, as he wished to do, without aid from the democratic party. He
had no well-defined views, but he wished to be the first man in Rome. He regarded himself as
still greatly superior to Cæsar, who as yet had been no more than Prætor, and at this time
was being balked of his triumph because he could not at one and the same moment be in the city,
as candidate for the Consulship, and out of the city waiting for his triumph. Pompey had triumphed
three times, had been Consul at an unnaturally early age with abnormal honors, had been victorious
east and west, and was called "Magnus." He did not as yet fear to be overshadowed by Cæsar.[235]
Cicero was his bugbear.

Mommsen I believe to be right in eschewing the word "Triumvirate." I know no mention of it
by any Roman writer as applied to this conspiracy, though Tacitus, Suetonius, and Florus call
by that name the later coalition of Octavius, Antony, and Lepidus. The Langhornes, in translating
Plutarch's life of Crassus, speak of the Triumvirate; but Plutarch himself says that Cæsar
combined "an impregnable stronghold" by joining the three men.[236] Paterculus and Suetonius[237]
explain very clearly the nature of the compact, but do not use the term. There was nothing
in the conspiracy entitling it to any official appellation, though, as there were three leading
conspirators, that which has been used has been so far appropriate.

[Sidenote: B.C. 60, ætat. 47.]

Cicero was the bugbear to them all. That he might have been one of them, if ready to share
the plunder and the power, no reader of the history of the time can doubt. Had he so chosen
he might again have been a "real power in the State;" but to become so in the way proposed
to him it was necessary that he should join others in a conspiracy against the Republic.

I do not wish it to be supposed that Cicero received the overtures made to him with horror.
Conspiracies were too common for horror; and these conspirators were all our Cicero's friends
in one sense, though in another they might be his opponents. We may imagine that at first Crassus
had nothing to do with the matter, and that Pompey would fain have stood aloof in his jealousy.
But Cæsar knew that it was well to have Cicero, if Cicero was to be had. It was not only his
eloquence which was marvellously powerful, or his energy which had been shown to be indomitable:
there was his character, surpassed by that of no Roman living; if only, in giving them the
use of his character, he could be got to disregard the honor and the justice and the patriotism
on which his character had been founded. How valuable may character be made, if it can be employed
under such conditions! To be believed because of your truth, and yet to lie; to be trusted
for your honesty, and yet to cheat; to have credit for patriotism, and yet to sell your country!
The temptations to do this are rarely put before a man plainly, in all their naked ugliness.
They certainly were not so presented to Cicero by Cæsar and his associates. The bait was held
out to him, as it is daily to others, in a form not repellent, with words fitted to deceive
and powerful almost to persuade. Give us the advantage of your character, and then by your
means we shall be able to save our country. Though our line of action may not be strictly constitutional,
if you will look into it you will see that it is expedient. What other course is there? How
else shall any wreck of the Republic be preserved? Would you be another Cato, useless and impractical?
Join us, and save Rome to some purpose. We can understand that in such way was the lure held
out to Cicero, as it has been to many a politician since. But when the politician takes the
office offered to him--and the pay, though it be but that of a Lord of the Treasury--he must
vote with his party.

That Cicero doubted much whether he would or would not at this time throw in his lot with Cæsar
and Pompey is certain. To be of real use--not to be impractical, as was Cato--to save his country
and rise honestly in power and glory--not to be too straitlaced, not over-scrupulous--giving
and taking a little, so that he might work to good purpose with others in harness--that was
his idea of duty as a Roman. To serve in accord with Pompey was the first dream of his political
life, and now Pompey was in accord with Cæsar. It was natural that he should doubt--natural
that he should express his doubts. Who should receive them but Atticus, that "alter ego?" Cicero
doubted whether he should cling to Pompey--as he did in every phase of his political life,
till Pompey had perished at the mouth of the Nile. But at last he saw his way clear to honesty,
as I think he always did. He tells his friend that Cæsar had sent his confidential messenger,
Balbus, to sound him. The present question is whether he shall resist a certain agrarian law
of which he does not approve, but which is supported by both Pompey and Cæsar, or retire from
the contest and enjoy himself at his country villas, or boldly stay at Rome and oppose the
law. Cæsar assures him that if he will come over to them, Cæsar will be always true to him
and Pompey, and will do his best to bring Crassus into the same frame of mind. Then he reckons
up all the good things which would accrue to him: "Closest friendship with Pompey--with Cæsar
also, should he wish it; the making up of all quarrels with his enemies; popularity with the
people; ease for his old age, which was coming on him. But that conclusion moves me to which
I came in my third book."[238] Then he repeats the lines given in the note below, which he
had written, probably this very year, in a poem composed in honor of his own Consulship. The
lines are not in themselves grand, but the spirit of them is magnificent: "Stick to the good
cause which in your early youth you chose for yourself, and be true to the party you have made
your own." "Should I doubt when the muse herself has so written," he says, alluding to the
name of Calliope, given to this third book of his. Then he adds a line of Homer, very excellent
for the occasion:[239] "No augury for the future can be better for you than that which bids
you serve your country." "But," he says, "we will talk of all that when you come to me for
the holidays. Your bath shall be ready for you: your sister and mother shall be of the party."
And so the doubts are settled.

Now came on the question of the Tribuneship of Clodius, in reference to which I will quote
a passage out of Middleton, because the phrase which he uses exactly explains the purposes
of Cæsar and Pompey.

[Sidenote: B.C. 60, ætat. 47.]

"Clodius, who had been contriving all this while how to revenge himself on Cicero, began now
to give an opening to the scheme which he had formed for that purpose. His project was to get
himself chosen Tribune, and in that office to drive him out of the city, by the publication
of a law which, by some stratagem or other, he hoped to obtrude on the people. But as all Patricians
were incapable of the Tribunate, by its original institution so his first step was to make
himself a Plebeian by the pretence of an adoption into a Plebeian house, which could not yet
be done without the suffrage of the people. This case was wholly new, and contrary to all the
forms--wanting every condition, and serving none of the ends which were required in regular
adoptions--so that, on the first proposal, it seemed too extravagant to be treated seriously,
and would soon have been hissed off with scorn, had it not been concerted and privately supported
by persons of much more weight than Clodius. Cæsar was at the bottom of it, and Pompey secretly
favored it--not that they intended to ruin Cicero, but to keep him only under the lash--and
if they could not draw him into their measures, to make him at least sit quiet, and let Clodius
loose upon him."[240]

This, no doubt, was the intention of the political leaders in Rome at this conjunction of affairs.
It had been found impossible to draw Cicero gently into the net, so that he should become one
of them. If he would live quietly at his Antian or Tusculan villa, amid his books and writings,
he should be treated with all respect; he should be borne with, even though he talked so much
of his own Consulate. But if he would interfere with the politics of the day, and would not
come into the net, then he must be dealt with. Cæsar seems to have respected Cicero always,
and even to have liked him; but he was not minded to put up with a "friend" in Rome who from
day to day abused all his projects. In defending Antony, the Macedonian Proconsul who was condemned,
Cicero made some unpleasant remarks on the then condition of things. Cæsar, we are told, when
he heard of this, on the very spur of the moment, caused Clodius to be accepted as a Plebeian.
How had it come to pass that Cæsar had the power of suddenly causing an edict to become law,
whether for good or for evil? Cicero's description of what took place is as follows:[241] "About
the sixth hour of the day, when I was defending my colleague Antony in court, I took occasion
to complain of certain things which were being done in the Republic, and which I thought to
be injurious to my poor client. Some dishonest persons carried my words to men in power"--meaning
Cæsar and Pompey--"not, indeed, my own words, but words very different from mine. At the ninth
hour on that very same day, you, Clodius, were accepted as a Plebeian." Cæsar, having been
given to understand that Cicero had been making himself disagreeable, was determined not to
put up with it. Suetonius tells the same story with admirable simplicity. Of Suetonius it must
be said that, if he had no sympathy for a patriot such as Cicero, neither had he any desire
to represent in rosy colors the despotism of a Cæsar. He tells his stories simply as he has
heard them. "Cicero," says Suetonius,[242] "having at some trial complained of the state of
the times, Cæsar, on the very same day, at the ninth hour, passed Clodius over from the Patrician
to the Plebeian rank, in accordance with his own desire." How did it come to pass that Cæsar,
who, though Consul at the time, had no recognized power of that nature, was efficacious for
any such work as this? Because the Republic had come to the condition which the German historian
has described. The conspiracy between Cæsar and his subordinates had not been made for nothing.

The reader will require to know why Clodius should have desired degradation, and how it came
to pass that this degradation should have been fatal to Cicero. The story has been partly told
in the passage from Middleton. A Patrician, in accordance with the constitution, could not
be a Tribune of the people. From the commencement of the Tribunate, that office had been reserved
for the Plebeians. But a Tribune had a power of introducing laws which exceeded that of any
Senator or any other official. When such proposition was made, it was simply for the people
to decide by their votes whether it should or should not be law. The present object was to
have a proposition made and carried suddenly, in reference to Cicero, which should have, at
any rate, the effect of stopping his mouth. This could be best done by a Tribune of the people.
No other adequate Tribune could be found--no Plebeian so incensed against Cicero as to be willing
to do this, possessing at the same time power enough to be elected. Therefore it was that Clodius
was so anxious to be degraded.

No Patrician could become a Tribune of the people; but a Patrician might be adopted by a Plebeian,
and the adopted child would take the rank of his father--would, in fact, for all legal purposes,
be the same as a son. For doing this in any case a law had to be passed--or, in other words,
the assent of the people must be obtained and registered. But many conditions were necessary.
The father intending to adopt must have no living son of his own, and must be past the time
of life at which he might naturally hope to have one; and the adopted son must be of a fitting
age to personate a son--at any rate, must be younger than the father; nothing must be done
injurious to either family; there must be no trick in it, no looking after other result than
that plainly intended. All these conditions were broken. The pretended father, Fonteius, had
a family of his own, and was younger than Clodius. The great Claudian family was desecrated,
and there was no one so ignorant as not to know that the purpose intended was that of entering
the Tribunate by a fraud. It was required by the general law that the Sacred College should
report as to the proper observances of the prescribed regulations, but no priest was ever consulted.
Yet Clodius was adopted, made a Plebeian, and in the course of the year elected as Tribune.

In reading all this, the reader is mainly struck by the wonderful admixture of lawlessness
and law-abiding steadfastness. If Cæsar, who was already becoming a tyrant in his Consulship,
chose to make use of this means of silencing Cicero, why not force Clodius into the Tribunate
without so false and degrading a ceremony? But if, as was no doubt the case, he was not yet
strong enough to ignore the old popular feelings on the subject, how was it that he was able
to laugh in his sleeve at the laws, and to come forth at a moment's notice and cause the people
to vote, legally or illegally, just as he pleased? It requires no conjurer to tell us the reason.
The outside hulls and husks remain when the rich fruit has gone. It was in seeing this, and
yet not quite believing that it must be so, that the agony of Cicero's life consisted. There
could have been no hope for freedom, no hope for the Republic, when Rome had been governed
as it was during the Consulship of Cæsar; but Cicero could still hope, though faintly, and
still buoy himself up with remembrances of his own year of office.

In carrying on the story of the newly-adopted child to his election as Tribune, I have gone
beyond the time of my narration, so that the reader may understand the cause and nature and
effect of the anger which Clodius entertained for Cicero. This originated in the bitter words
spoken as to the profanation of the Bona Dea, and led to the means for achieving Cicero's exile
and other untoward passages of his life. In the year 60 B.C., when Metellus Celer and Afranius
were Consuls, Clodius was tried for insulting the Bona Dea, and the since so-called Triumvirate
was instituted. It has already been shown that Cicero, not without many doubts, rejected the
first offers which were made to him to join the forces that were so united. He seems to have
passed the greater portion of this year in Rome. One letter only was written from the country,
to Atticus, from his Tusculan villa, and that is of no special moment. He spent his time in
the city, still engaged in the politics of the day; as to which, though he dreaded the coming
together of Cæsar and Pompey and Crassus--those "graves principum amicitias" which were to
become so detrimental to all who were concerned in them--he foresaw as yet but little of the
evil which was to fall upon his own head. He was by no means idle as to literature, though
we have but little of what he wrote, and do not regret what we have lost. He composed a memoir
of his Consulate in Greek, which he sent to Atticus with an allusion to his own use of the
foreign language intended to show that he is quite at ease in that matter. Atticus had sent
him a memoir, also written in Greek, on the same subject, and the two packets had crossed each
other on the road. He candidly tells Atticus that his attempt seems to be "horridula atque
incompta," rough and unpolished; whereas Posidonius, the great Greek critic of Rhodes who had
been invited by him, Cicero, to read the memoir, and then himself to treat the same subject,
had replied that he was altogether debarred from such an attempt by the excellence of his correspondent's
performance.[244] He also wrote three books of a poem on his Consulate, and sent them to Atticus;
of which we have a fragment of seventy-five lines quoted by himself,[243] and four or five
other lines including that unfortunate verse handed down by Quintilian, "O fortunatum natam
me consule Romam"--unless, indeed, it be spurious, as is suggested by that excellent critic
and whole-hearted friend of the orator's, M. Guéroult. Previous to these he had produced in
hexameters, also, a translation of the Prognostics of Aratus. This is the second part of a
poem on the heavenly bodies, the first part, the Phænomena, having been turned into Latin verse
by him when he was eighteen. Of the Prognostics we have only a few lines preserved by Priscian,
and a passage repeated by the author, also in his De Divinatione. I think that Cicero was capable
of producing a poem quite worthy of preservation; but in the work of this year the subjects
chosen were not alluring.

[Sidenote: B.C. 60, ætat. 47.]

Among his epistles of the year there is one which might of itself have sufficed to bring down
his name to posterity. This is a long letter, full of advice, to his brother Quintus, who had
gone out in the previous year to govern the province of Asia as Proprætor. We may say that
good advice could never have been more wanted, and that better advice could not have been given.
It has been suggested that it was written as a companion to that treatise on the duties of
a candidate which Quintus composed for his brother's service when standing for his Consulship.
But I cannot admit the analogy. The composition attributed to Quintus contained lessons of
advice equally suitable to any candidate, sprung from the people, striving to rise to high
honors in the State. This letter is adapted not only to the special position of Quintus, but
to the peculiarities of his character, and its strength lies in this: that while the one brother
praises the other justly praises him, as I believe, for many virtues, so as to make the receipt
of it acceptable, it points out faults--faults which will become fatal, if not amended--in
language which is not only strong but unanswerable.

The style of this letter is undoubtedly very different from that of Cicero's letters generally--so
as to suggest to the reader that it must have been composed expressly for publication whereas
the daily correspondence is written "currente calamo," with no other than the immediate idea
of amusing, instructing, or perhaps comforting the correspondent. Hence has come the comparison
between this and the treatise De Petitione Consulatus. I think that the gravity of the occasion,
rather than any regard for posterity, produced the change of style. Cicero found it to be essential
to induce his brother to remain at his post, not to throw up his government in disgust, and
so to bear himself that he should not make himself absolutely odious to his own staff and to
other Romans around him; for Quintus Cicero, though he had been proud and arrogant and ill
tempered, had not made himself notorious by the ordinary Roman propensity to plunder his province
"What is it that is required of you as a governor?"[245] asks Cicero. "That men should not
be frightened by your journeys hither and thither--that they should not be eaten up by your
extravagance--that they should not be disturbed by your coming among them--that there should
be joy at your approach; when each city should think that its guardian angel, not a cruel master,
had come upon it--when each house should feel that it entertained not a robber but a friend.
Practice has made you perfect in this. But it is not enough that you should exercise those
good offices yourself, but that you should take care that every one of those who come with
you should seem to do his best for the inhabitants of the province, for the citizen of Rome,
and for the Republic." I wish that I could give the letter entire--both in English, that all
readers might know how grand are the precepts taught, and in Latin, that they who understand
the language might appreciate the beauty of the words--but I do not dare to fill my pages at
such length. A little farther on he gives his idea of the duty of all those who have power
over others--even over the dumb animals.[246] "To me it seems that the duty of those in authority
over others consists in making those who are under them as happy as the nature of things will
allow. Every one knows that you have acted on this principle since you first went to Asia."
This, I fear, must be taken as flattery, intended to gild the pill which comes afterward "This
is not only his duty who has under him allies and citizens, but is also that of the man who
has slaves under his control, and even dumb cattle, that he should study the welfare of all
over whom he stands in the position of master!" Let the reader look into this, and ask himself
what precepts of Christianity have ever surpassed it.

Then he points out that which he describes as the one great difficulty in the career of a Roman
Provincial Governor.[247] The collectors of taxes, or "publicani," were of the equestrian order.
This business of farming the taxes had been their rich privilege for at any rate more than
a century, and as Cicero says, farther on in his letter, it was impossible not to know with
what hardship the Greek allies would be treated by them when so many stories were current of
their cruelty even in Italy. Were Quintus to take a part against these tax-gatherers, he would
make them hostile not only to the Republic but to himself also, and also to his brother Marcus;
for they were of the equestrian order, and specially connected with these "publicani" by family
ties. He implies, as he goes on, that it will be easier to teach the Greeks to be submissive
than the tax-gatherers to be moderate. After all, where would the Greeks of Asia be if they
had no Roman master to afford them protection? He leaves the matter in the hands of his brother,
with advice that he should do the best he can on one side and on the other. If possible, let
the greed of the "publicani" be restrained; but let the ally be taught to understand that there
may be usage in the world worse even than Roman taxation. It would be hardly worth our while
to allude to this part of Cicero's advice, did it not give an insight into the mode in which
Rome taxed her subject people.

After this he commences that portion of the letter for the sake of which we cannot but believe
that the whole was written. "There is one thing," he says, "which I will never cease to din
into your ears, because I could not endure to think that, amid the praises which are lavished
on you, there should be any matter in which you should be found wanting. All who come to us
here"--all who come to Rome from Asia, that is--"when they tell us of your honesty and goodness
of heart, tell us also that you fail in temper. It is a vice which, in the daily affairs of
private life, betokens a weak and unmanly spirit; but there can be nothing so poor as the exhibition
of the littleness of nature in those who have risen to the dignity of command." He will not,
he goes on to say, trouble his brother with repeating all that the wise men have said on the
subject of anger; he is sure that Quintus is well acquainted with all that. But is it not a
pity, when all men say that nothing could be pleasanter than Quintus Cicero when in a good-humor,
the same Quintus should allow himself to be so provoked that his want of kindly manners should
be regretted by all around him? "I cannot assert," he goes on to say, "that when nature has
produced a certain condition of mind, and that years as they run on have strengthened it, a
man can change all that and pluck out from his very self the habits that have grown within
him; yet I must tell you that if you cannot eschew this evil altogether--if you cannot protect
yourself against the feeling of anger, yet you should prepare yourself to be ready for it when
it comes, so that, when your very soul within you is hot with it, your tongue, at any rate,
may be restrained." Then toward the end of the letter there is a fraternal exhortation which
is surely very fine: "Since chance has thrown into my way the duties of official life in Rome,
and into yours that of administrating provincial government, if I, in the performance of my
work, have been second to none, do you see that you in yours may be equally efficient." How
grand, from an elder brother to a younger! "And remember this, that you and I have not to strive
after some excellence still unattained, but have to be on our watch to guard that which has
been already won. If I should find myself in anything divided from you, I should desire no
further advance in life. Unless your deeds and your words go on all-fours with mine, I should
feel that I had achieved nothing by all the work and all the dangers which you and I have encountered
together." The brother at last was found to be a poor, envious, ill-conditioned creature--intellectually
gifted, and capable of borrowing something from his brother's nobler nature; but when struggles
came, and political feuds, and the need of looking about to see on which side safety lay, ready
to sacrifice his brother for the sake of safety. But up to this time Marcus was prepared to
believe all good of Quintus; and having made for himself and for the family a great name, was
desirous of sharing it with his brother, and, as we shall afterward see, with his brother's
son, and with his own. In this he failed. He lived to know that he had failed as regarded his
brother and his nephew. It was not, however, added to his misery to live to learn how little
his son was to do to maintain the honor of his family.

I find a note scribbled by myself some years ago in a volume in which I had read this epistle,
"Probably the most beautiful letter ever written." Reading it again subsequently, I added another
note, "The language altogether different from that of his ordinary letters." I do not dissent
now either from the enthusiastic praise or the more careful criticism. The letter was from
the man's heart--true, affectionate, and full of anxious, brotherly duty--but written in studied
language, befitting, as Cicero thought, the need and the dignity of the occasion.

[Sidenote: B.C. 59, ætat. 48.]

The year following was that of Cæsar's first Consulship, which he held in conjunction with
Bibulus, a man who was altogether opposed to him in thought, in character, and in action. So
hostile were these two great officers to each other that the one attempted to undo whatever
the other did. Bibulus was elected by bribery, on behalf of the Senate, in order that he might
be a counterpoise to Cæsar. But Cæsar now was not only Cæsar: he was Cæsar, Pompey, and Crassus
united, with all their dependents, all their clients, all their greedy hangers-on. To give
this compact something of the strength of family union, Pompey, who was now nearly fifty years
of age, took in marriage Cæsar's daughter Julia, who was a quarter of a century his junior.
But Pompey was a man who could endear himself to women, and the opinion seems to be general
that had not Julia died in childbirth the friendship between the men would have been more lasting.
But for Cæsar's purposes the duration of this year and the next was enough. Bibulus was a laughing-stock,
the mere shadow of a Consul, when opposed to such an enemy. He tried to use all the old forms
of the Republic with the object of stopping Cæsar in his career; but Cæsar only ridiculed him;
and Pompey, though we can imagine that he did not laugh much, did as Cæsar would have him.
Bibulus was an augur, and observed the heavens when political man[oe]uvres were going on which
he wished to stop. This was the old Roman system for using religion as a drag upon progressive
movements. No work of state could be carried on if the heavens were declared to be unpropitious;
and an augur could always say that the heavens were unpropitious if he pleased. This was the
recognized constitutional mode of obstruction, and was quite in accord with the feelings of
the people. Pompey alone, or Crassus with him, would certainly have submitted to an augur;
but Cæsar was above augurs. Whatever he chose to have carried he carried, with what approach
he could to constitutional usage, but with whatever departure from constitutional usage he
found to be necessary.

What was the condition of the people of Rome at the time it is difficult to learn from the
conflicting statements of historians. That Cicero had till lately been popular we know. We
are told that Bibulus was popular when he opposed Cæsar. Of personal popularity up to this
time I doubt whether Cæsar had achieved much. Yet we learn that, when Bibulus with Cato and
Lucullus endeavored to carry out their constitutional threats, they were dragged and knocked
about, and one of them nearly killed. Of the illegality of Cæsar's proceedings there can be
no doubt. "The tribunitian veto was interposed; Cæsar contented himself with disregarding it."[248]
This is quoted from the German historian, who intends to leave an impression that Cæsar was
great and wise in all that he did; and who tells us also of the "obstinate, weak creature Bibulus,"
and of "the dogmatical fool Cato." I doubt whether there was anything of true popular ferment,
or that there was any commotion except that which was made by the "roughs" who had attached
themselves for pay to Cæsar or to Pompey, or to Crassus, or, as it might be, to Bibulus and
the other leaders. The violence did not amount to more than "nearly" killing this man or the
other. Some Roman street fights were no doubt more bloody--as for instance that in which, seven
years afterward, Clodius was slaughtered by Milo--but the blood was made to flow, not by the
people, but by hired bravoes. The Roman citizens of the day were, I think, very quiescent.
Neither pride nor misery stirred them much. Cæsar, perceiving this, was aware that he might
disregard Bibulus and his auguries so long as he had a band of ruffians around him sufficient
for the purposes of the hour. It was in order that he might thus prevail that the coalition
had been made with Pompey and Crassus. His colleague Bibulus, seeing how matters were going,
retired to his own house, and there went through a farce of consular enactments. Cæsar carried
all his purposes, and the people were content to laugh, dividing him into two personages, and
talking of Julius and Cæsar as the two Consuls of the year. It was in this way that he procured
to be allotted to him by the people his irregular command in Gaul. He was to be Proconsul,
not for one year, with perhaps a prolongation for two or three, but for an established period
of five. He was to have the great province of Cisalpine Gaul--that is to say, the whole of
what we now call Italy, from the foot of the Alps down to a line running from sea to sea just
north of Florence. To this Transalpine Gaul was afterward added. The province so named, possessed
at the time by the Romans, was called "Narbonensis," a country comparatively insignificant,
running from the Alps to the Pyrenees along the Mediterranean. The Gaul or Gallia of which
Cæsar speaks when, in the opening words of his Commentary, he tells us that it was divided
into three parts, was altogether beyond the Roman province which was assigned to him. Cæsar,
when he undertook his government, can hardly have dreamed of subjecting to Roman rule the vast
territories which were then known as Gallia, beyond the frontiers of the Empire, and which
we now call France.

But he caused himself to be supported by an enormous army. There were stationed three legions
on the Italian side of the Alps, and one on the other. These were all to be under his command
for five years certain, and amounted to a force of not less than thirty thousand men. 48.]

Such was the condition of Rome during the second year of the Triumvirate, in which Cæsar was
Consul and prepared the way for the powers which he afterward exercised. Cicero would not come
to his call; and therefore, as we are told, Clodius was let loose upon him. As he would not
come to Cæsar's call, it was necessary that he should be suppressed, and Clodius, notwithstanding
all constitutional difficulties--nay, impossibilities--was made Tribune of the people. Things
had now so far advanced with a Cæsar that a Cicero who would not come to his call must be disposed
of after some fashion.

Till we have thought much of it, often of it, till we have looked thoroughly into it, we find
ourselves tempted to marvel at Cicero's blindness. Surely a man so gifted must have known enough
of the state of Rome to have been aware that there was no room left for one honest, patriotic,
constitutional politician. Was it not plain to him that if, "natus ad justitiam," he could
not bring himself to serve with those who were intent on discarding the Republic, he had better
retire among his books, his busts, and his literary luxuries, and leave the government of the
country to those who understood its people? And we are the more prone to say and to think all
this because the man himself continually said it, and continually thought it. In one of the
letters written early in the year[250] to Atticus from his villa at Antium he declares very
plainly how it is with him; and this, too, in a letter written in good-humor, not in a despondent
frame of mind, in which he is able pleasantly to ridicule his enemy Clodius, who it seems had
expressed a wish to go on an embassy to Tigranes, King of Armenia. "Do not think," he says,
"that I am complaining of all this because I myself am desirous of being engaged in public
affairs. Even while it was mine to sit at the helm I was tired of the work; but now, when I
am in truth driven out of the ship, when the rudder has not been thrown down but seized out
of my hands, how should I take a pleasure in looking from the shore at the wrecks which these
other pilots have made?" But the study of human nature tells us, and all experience, that men
are unable to fathom their own desires, and fail to govern themselves by the wisdom which is
at their fingers' ends. The retiring Prime-minister cannot but hanker after the seals and the
ribbons and the titles of office, even though his soul be able to rise above considerations
of emolument, and there will creep into a man's mind an idea that, though reform of abuses
from other sources may be impossible, if he were there once more the evil could at least be
mitigated, might possibly be cured. So it was during this period of his life with Cicero. He
did believe that political justice exercised by himself, with such assistance as his eloquence
would obtain for it, might be efficacious for preserving the Republic, in spite of Cæsar, and
of Pompey, and of Crassus. He did not yet believe that these men would consent to such an outrage
as his banishment. It must have been incredible to him that Pompey should assent to it. When
the blow came, it crushed him for the time. But he retricked his beams and struggled on to
the end, as we shall see if we follow his life to the close.

Such was the intended purpose of the degradation of Clodius. This, however, was not at once
declared. It was said that Clodius as Tribune intended rather to oppose Cæsar than to assist
him. He at any rate chose that Cicero should so believe and sent Curio, a young man to whom
Cicero was attached to visit the orator at his villa at Antium and to declare these friendly
purposes. According to the story told by Cicero,[251] Clodius was prepared to oppose the Triumvirate;
and the other young men of Rome, the jeunesse dorée, of which both Curio and Clodius were members,
were said to be equally hostile to Cæsar, Pompey, and Crassus, whose doings in opposition to
the constitution were already evident enough; so that it suited Cicero to believe that the
rising aristocracy of Rome would oppose them. But the aristocracy of Rome, whether old or young,
cared for nothing but its fish-ponds and its amusements.

Cicero spent the earlier part of the year out of Rome, among his various villas--at Tusculanum,
at Antium, and at Formiæ. The purport of all his letters at this period is the same--to complain
of the condition of the Republic, and especially of the treachery of his friend Pompey. Though
there be much of despondency in his tone, there is enough also of high spirit to make us feel
that his literary aspirations are not out of place, though mingled with his political wailing.
The time will soon come when his trust even in literature will fail him for a while.

Early in the year he declares that he would like to accept a mission to Egypt, offered to him
by Cæsar and Pompey, partly in order that he might for a while be quit of Rome, and partly
that Romans might feel how ill they could do without him. He then uses for the first time,
as far as I am aware, a line from the Iliad,[252] which is repeated by him again and again,
in part or in whole, to signify the restraint which is placed on him by his own high character
among his fellow-citizens. "I would go to Egypt on this pleasant excursion, but that I fear
what the men of Troy, and the Trojan women, with their wide-sweeping robes, would say of me."
And what, he asks, would the men of our party, "the optimates," say? and what would Cato say,
whose opinion is more to me than that of them all? And how would history tell the story in
future ages? But he would like to go to Egypt, and he will wait and see. Then, after various
questions to Atticus, comes that great one as to the augurship, of which so much has been made
by Cicero's enemies, "quo quidem uno ego ab istis capi possim." A few lines above he had been
speaking of another lure, that of the mission to Egypt. He discusses that with his friend,
and then goes on in his half-joking phrase, "but this would have been the real thing to catch
me." Nothing caught him. He was steadfast all through, accepting no offer of place from the
conspirators by which his integrity or his honor could be soiled. That it was so was well known
to history in the time of Quintilian, whose testimony as to the "repudiatus vigintiviratus"--his
refusal of a place among the twenty commissioners--has been already quoted.[253] And yet biographers
have written of him as of one willing to sell his honor, his opinions, and the commonwealth,
for a "pitiful bribe;" not that he did do so, not that he attempted to do it, but because in
a half-joking letter to the friend of his bosom he tells his friend which way his tastes lay![254]

He had been thinking of writing a book on geography, and consulted Atticus on the subject;
but in one of his letters he tells his friend that he had abandoned the idea. The subject was
too dull; and if he took one side in a dispute that was existing, he would be sure to fall
under the lash of the critics on the other. He is enjoying his leisure at Antium, and thinks
it a much better place than Rome. If the weather will not let him catch fish, at any rate he
can count the waves. In all these letters Cicero asks questions about his money and his private
affairs; about the mending of a wall, perhaps, and adds something about his wife or daughter
or son. He is going from Antium to Formiæ, but must return to Antium by a certain date because
Tullia wants to see the games.

Then again he alludes to Clodius. Pompey had made a compact with Clodius--so at least Cicero
had heard--that he, Clodius, if elected for the Tribunate, would do nothing to injure Cicero.
The assurance of such a compact had no doubt been spread about for the quieting of Cicero;
but no such compact had been intended to be kept, unless Cicero would be amenable, would take
some of the good things offered to him, or at any rate hold his peace. But Cicero affects to
hope that no such agreement may be kept. He is always nicknaming Pompey, who during his Eastern
campaign had taken Jerusalem, and who now parodies the Africanus, the Asiaticus, and the Macedonicus
of the Scipios and Metelluses. "If that Hierosolymarian candidate for popularity does not keep
his word with me, I shall be delighted. If that be his return for my speeches on his behalf"--the
Anteponatur omnibus Pompeius, for instance--"I will play him such a turn of another kind that
he shall remember it."[255]

He begins to know what the "Triumvirate" is doing with the Republic, but has not yet brought
himself to suspect the blow that is to fall on himself. "They are going along very gayly,"
he says, "and do not make as much noise as one would have expected."[256] If Cato had been
more on the alert, things would not have gone so quickly; but the dishonesty of others, who
have allowed all the laws to be ignored, has been worse than Cato. If we used to feel that
the Senate took too much on itself, what shall we say when that power has been transferred,
not to the people, but to three utterly unscrupulous men? "They can make whom they will Consuls,
whom they will Tribunes--so that they may hide the very goitre of Vatinius under a priest's
robe." For himself, Cicero says, he will be contented to remain with his books, if only Clodius
will allow him; if not, he will defend himself.[257] As for his country, he has done more for
his country than has even been desired of him; and he thinks it to be better to leave the helm
in the hands of pilots, however incompetent, than himself to steer when passengers are so thankless.
Then we find that he robs poor Tullia of her promised pleasure at the games, because it will
be beneath his dignity to appear at them. He is always very anxious for his friend's letters,
depending on them for news and for amusement. "My messenger will return at once," he says,
in one; "therefore, though you are coming yourself very soon, send me a heavy letter, full
not only of news but of your own ideas."[258] In another: "Cicero the Little sends greeting,"
he says, in Greek, "to Titus the Athenian"--that is, to Titus Pomponius Atticus. The Greek
letters were probably traced by the child at his father's knee as Cicero held the pen or the
stylus. In another letter he declares that there, at Formiæ, Pompey's name of Magnus is no
more esteemed than that of Dives belonging to Crassus. In the next he calls Pompey Sampsiceramus.
We learn from Josephus that there was a lady afterward in the East in the time of Vitellius,
who was daughter of Sampsigeramus, King of the Emesi. It might probably be a royal family name.[259]
In choosing the absurd title, he is again laughing at his party leader. Pompey had probably
boasted of his doings with the Sampsiceramus of the day and the priests of Jerusalem. "When
this Sampsiceramus of ours finds how ill he is spoken of, he will rush headlong into revolution."
He complains that he can do nothing at Formiæ because of the visitors. No English poet was
ever so interviewed by American admirers. They came at all hours, in numbers sufficient to
fill a temple, let alone a gentleman's house. How can he write anything requiring leisure in
such a condition as this? Nevertheless he will attempt something. He goes on criticising all
that is done in Rome, especially what is done by Pompey, who no doubt was vacillating sadly
between Cæsar, to whom he was bound, and Bibulus, the other Consul, to whom he ought to have
been bound, as being naturally on the aristocratic side. He cannot for a moment keep his pen
from public matters; nor, on the other hand, can he refrain from declaring that he will apply
himself wholly, undividedly, to his literature. "Therefore, oh my Titus, let me settle down
to these glorious occupations, and return to that which, if I had been wise, I never should
have left."[260] A day or two afterward, writing from the same place, he asks what Arabarches
is saying of him. Arabarches is another name for Pompey--this Arabian chieftain.

In the early summer of this year Cicero returned to Rome, probably in time to see Atticus,
who was then about to leave the city for his estates in Epirus. We have a letter written by
him to his friend on the journey, telling us that Cæsar had made him two distinct offers, evidently
with the view of getting rid of him, but in such a manner as would be gratifying to Cicero
himself.[261] Cæsar asks him to go with him to Gaul as his lieutenant, or, if that will not
suit him, to accept a "free legation for the sake of paying a vow." This latter was a kind
of job by which Roman Senators got themselves sent forth on their private travels with all
the appanages of a Senator travelling on public business. We have his argument as to both.
Elsewhere he objects to a "libera legatio" as being a job.[262] Here he only points out that,
though it enforce his absence from Rome at a time disagreeable to him--just when his brother
Quintus would return--it would not give him the protection which he needs. Though he were travelling
about the world as a Senator on some pretended embassy, he would still be open to the attacks
of Clodius. He would necessarily be absent, or he would not be in enjoyment of his privilege,
but by his very absence he would find his position weakened; whereas, as Cæsar's appointed
lieutenant, he need not leave the city at once, and in that position he would be quite safe
against all that Clodius or other enemies could do to him.[263] No indictment could be made
against a Roman while he was in the employment of the State. It must be remembered, too, on
judging of these overtures, that both the one and the other--and indeed all the offers then
made to him--were deemed to be highly honorable, as Rome then existed. "The free legation"--the
"libera legatio voti causa"--had no reference to parties. It was a job, no doubt, and, in the
hands of the ordinary Roman aristocrat, likely to be very onerous to the provincials among
whom the privileged Senator might travel; but it entailed no party adhesion. In this case it
was intended only to guarantee the absence of a man who might be troublesome in Rome. The other
was the offer of genuine work in which politics were not at all concerned. Such a position
was accepted by Quintus, our Cicero's brother, and in performance of the duties which fell
to him he incurred terrible danger, having been nearly destroyed by the Gauls in his winter
quarters among the Nervii. Labienus, who was Cæsar's right-hand man in Gaul, was of the same
politics as Cicero--so much so that when Cæsar rebelled against the Republic, Labienus, true
to the Republic, would no longer fight on Cæsar's side. It was open to Cicero, without disloyalty,
to accept the offer made to him; but with an insight into what was coming, of which he himself
was hardly conscious, he could not bring himself to accept offers which in themselves were
alluring, but which would seem in future times to have implied on his part an assent to the
breaking up of the Republic. [Greek: Aideomai Trôas kai Trôadas elkesipeplous.] What will be
said of me in history by my citizens if I now do simply that which may best suit my own happiness?
Had he done so, Pliny and the others would not have spoken of him as they have spoken, and
it would not have been worth the while of modern lovers of Cæsarism to write books against
the one patriot of his age.

During the remainder of this year, B.C. 59, Cicero was at Rome, and seems gradually to have
become aware that a personal attack was to be made upon him. At the close of a long and remarkable
letter written to his brother Quintus in November, he explains the state of his own mind, showing
us, who have now before us the future which was hidden from him, how greatly mistaken he was
as to the results which were to be expected. He had been telling his brother how nearly Cato
had been murdered for calling Pompey, in public, a Dictator. Then he goes on to describe his
own condition.[264] "You may see from this what is the state of the Republic. As far as I am
concerned, it seems that friends will not be wanting to defend me. They offer themselves in
a wonderful way, and promise assistance. I feel great hope and still greater spirit--hope,
which tells me that we shall be victors in the struggle; spirit, which bids me fear no casualty
in the present state of public affairs."[265] But the matter stands in this way: "If he"--that
is, Clodius--"should indict me in court, all Italy would come to my defence, so that I should
be acquitted with honor. Should he attack me with open violence, I should have, I think, not
only my own party but the world at large to stand by me. All men promise me their friends,
their clients, their freedmen, their slaves, and even their money. Our old body of aristocrats"--Cato,
Bibulus, and the makers of fish-ponds generally--"are wonderfully warm in my cause. If any
of these have heretofore been remiss, now they join our party from sheer hatred of these kings"--the
Triumvirs. "Pompey promises everything, and so does Cæsar, whom I only trust so far as I can
see them." Even the Triumvirs promise him that he will be safe; but his belief in Pompey's
honesty is all but gone. "The coming Tribunes are my friends. The Consuls of next year promise
well." He was wofully mistaken. "We have excellent Prætors, citizens alive to their duty. Domitius,
Nigidius, Memmius, and Lentulus are specially trustworthy. The others are good men. You may
therefore pluck up your courage and be confident." From this we perceive that he had already
formed the idea that he might perhaps be required to fight for his position as a Roman citizen;
and it seems also that he understood the cause of the coming conflict. The intention was that
he should be driven out of Rome by personal enmity. Nothing is said in any of these letters
of the excuse to be used, though he knew well what that excuse was to be. He was to be charged
by the Patrician Tribune with having put Roman citizens to death in opposition to the law.
But there arises at this time no question whether he had or had not been justified in what
he, as Consul, had done to Lentulus and the others. Would Clodius be able to rouse a mob against
him? and, if so, would Cæsar assist Clodius? or would Pompey who still loomed to his eyes as
the larger of the two men? He had ever been the friend of Pompey, and Pompey had promised him
all manner of assistance; but he knew already that Pompey would turn upon him. That Rome should
turn upon him--Rome which he had preserved from the torches of Catiline's conspirators--that
he could not bring himself to believe!

We must not pass over this long letter to Quintus without observing that through it all the
evil condition of the younger brother's mind becomes apparent. The severity of his administration
had given offence. His punishments had been cruel. His letters had been rash, and his language
violent. In short, we gather from the brother's testimony that Quintus Cicero was very ill-fitted
to be the civil governor of a province.

The only work which we have from Cicero belonging to this year, except his letters, is the
speech, or part of the speech, he made for Lucius Valerius Flaccus. Flaccus had been Prætor
when Cicero was Consul, and had done good service, in the eyes of his superior officers, in
the matter of the Catiline conspiracy. He had then gone to Asia as governor, and, after the
Roman manner, had fleeced the province. That this was so there is no doubt. After his return
he was accused, was defended by Cicero, and was acquitted. Macrobius tells us that Cicero,
by the happiness of a bon-mot, brought the accused off safely, though he was manifestly guilty.
He adds also that Cicero took care not to allow the joke to appear in the published edition
of his speech.[266] There are parts of the speech which have been preserved, and are sufficiently
amusing even to us. He is very hard upon the Greeks of Asia, the class from which the witnesses
against Flaccus were taken. We know here in England that a spaniel, a wife, and a walnut-tree
may be beaten with advantage. Cicero says that in Asia there is a proverb that a Phrygian may
be improved in the same way. "Fiat experimentum in corpore vili." It is declared through Asia
that you should take a Carian for your experiment. The "last of the Mysians" is the well-known
Asiatic term for the lowest type of humanity. Look through all the comedies, you will find
the leading slave is a Lydian. Then he turns to these poor Asiatics, and asks them whether
any one can be expected to think well of them, when such is their own testimony of themselves!
He attacks the Jew, and speaks of the Jewish religion as a superstition worthy in itself of
no consideration. Pompey had spared the gold in the Temple of Jerusalem, because he thought
it wise to respect the religious prejudices of the people; but the gods themselves had shown,
by subjecting the Jews to the Romans, how little the gods had regarded these idolatrous worshippers!
Such were the arguments used; and they prevailed with the judges--or jury, we should rather
call them--to whom they were addressed.

CHAPTER XII.

HIS EXILE.

We now come to that period of Cicero's life in which, by common consent of all who have hitherto
written of him, he is supposed to have shown himself as least worthy of his high name. Middleton,
who certainly loved his hero's memory and was always anxious to do him justice, condemns him.
"It cannot be denied that in this calamity of his exile he did not behave himself with that
firmness which might reasonably be expected from one who had borne so glorious a part in the
Republic." Morabin, the French biographer, speaks of the wailings of his grief, of its injustice
and its follies. "Cicéron était trop plein de son malheur pour donner entrée à de nouvelles
espérances," he says. "Il avait supporté ce malheur avec peu de courage," says another Frenchman,
M. Du Rozoir, in introducing us to the speeches which Cicero made on his return. Dean Merivale
declares that "he marred the grace of the concession in the eyes of posterity"--alluding to
the concession made to popular feeling by his voluntary departure from Rome, as will hereafter
be described--"by the unmanly lamentations with which he accompanied it." Mommsen, with a want
of insight into character wonderful in an author who has so closely studied the history of
the period, speaks of his exile as a punishment inflicted on a "man notoriously timid, and
belonging to the class of political weather-cocks." "We now come," says Mr. Forsyth, "to the
most melancholy period of Cicero's life, melancholy not so much from its nature and the extent
of the misfortunes which overtook him, as from the abject prostration of mind into which he
was thrown." We have to admit that modern historians and biographers have been united in accusing
Cicero of want of manliness during his exile. I propose--not, indeed, to wash the blackamoor
white--but to show, if I can, that he was as white as others might be expected to have been
in similar circumstances.

We are, I think, somewhat proud of the courage shown by public men of our country who have
suffered either justly or unjustly under the laws. Our annals are bloody, and many such have
had to meet their death. They have done so generally with becoming manliness. Even though they
may have been rebels against the powers of the day, their memories have been made green because
they have fallen like brave men. Sir Thomas More, who was no rebel, died well, and crowned
a good life by his manner of leaving it. Thomas Cromwell submitted to the axe without a complaint.
Lady Jane Grey, when on the scaffold, yielded nothing in manliness to the others. Cranmer and
the martyr bishops perished nobly. The Earl of Essex, and Raleigh, and Strafford, and Strafford's
master showed no fear when the fatal moment came. In reading the fate of each, we sympathize
with the victim because of a certain dignity at the moment of death. But there is, I think,
no crisis of life in which it is so easy for a man to carry himself honorably as that in which
he has to leave it. "Venit summa dies et ineluctabile tempus." No doubting now can be of avail.
No moment is left for the display of conduct beyond this, which requires only decorum and a
free use of the pulses to become in some degree glorious. The wretch from the lowest dregs
of the people can achieve it with a halter round his neck. Cicero had that moment also to face;
and when it came he was as brave as the best Englishman of them all. But of those I have named
no one had an Atticus to whom it had been the privilege of his life to open his very soul,
in language so charming as to make it worth posterity's while to read it, to study it, to sift
it, and to criticise it. Wolsey made many plaints in his misery, but they have reached us in
such forms of grace that they do not disparage him; but then he too had no Atticus. Shaftesbury
and Bolingbroke were dismissed ministers and doomed to live in exile, the latter for many years,
and felt, no doubt, strongly their removal from the glare of public life to obscurity. We hear
no complaint from them which can justify some future critic in saying that their wails were
unworthy of a woman; but neither of them was capable of telling an Atticus the thoughts of
his mind as they rose. What other public man ever had an Atticus to whom, in the sorrows which
the ingratitude of friends had brought upon him, he could disclose every throb of his heart?

I think that we are often at a loss, in our efforts at appreciation of character, and in the
expressions of our opinion respecting it, to realize the meaning of courage and manliness.
That sententious Swedish Queen, one of whose foolish maxims I have quoted, has said that Cicero,
though a coward, was capable of great actions, because she did not know what a coward was.
To doubt--to tremble with anxiety--to vacillate hither and thither between this course and
the other as to which may be the better--to complain within one's own breast that this or that
thing has been an injustice--to hesitate within one's self, not quite knowing which way honor
may require us to go--to be indignant even at fancied wrongs--to rise in wrath against another,
and then, before the hour has passed, to turn that wrath against one's self--that is not to
be a coward. To know what duty requires, and then to be deterred by fear of results--that is
to be a coward; but the man of many scruples may be the greatest hero of them all. Let the
law of things be declared clearly so that the doubting mind shall no longer doubt, so that
scruples may be laid at rest, so that the sense of justice may be satisfied--and he of whom
I speak shall be ready to meet the world in arms against him. There are men, very useful in
their way, who shall never doubt at all, but shall be ready, as the bull is ready, to encounter
any obstacles that there may be before them. I will not say but that for the coarse purposes
of the world they may not be the most efficacious, but I will not admit that they are therefore
the bravest. The bull, who has no imagination to tell him what the obstacle may do to him,
is not brave. He is brave who, fully understanding the potentiality of the obstacle, shall,
for a sufficient purpose, move against it.

This Cicero always did. He braved the murderous anger of Sulla when, as a young man, he thought
it well to stop the greed of Sulla's minions. He trusted himself amid the dangers prepared
for him, when it was necessary that with extraordinary speed he should get together the evidence
needed for the prosecution of Verres. He was firm against all that Catiline attempted for his
destruction, and had courage enough for the responsibility when he thought it expedient to
doom the friends of Catiline to death. In defending Milo, whether the cause were good or bad,
he did not blench.[267] He joined the Republican army in Macedonia though he distrusted Pompey
and his companions. When he thought that there was a hope for the Republic, he sprung at Antony
with all the courage of a tigress protecting her young; and when all had failed and was rotten
around him, when the Republic had so fallen that he knew it to be gone--then he was able to
give his neck to the swordsman with all the apparent indifference of life which was displayed
by those countrymen of our own whom I have named.

But why did he write so piteously when he was driven into exile? Why, at any rate, did he turn
upon his chosen friend and scold him, as though that friend had not done enough for friendship?
Why did he talk of suicide as though by that he might find the easiest way of escape?

I hold it to be natural that a man should wail to himself under a sense, not simply of misfortune,
but of misfortune coming to him from the injustice of others, and specially from the ingratitude
of friends. Afflictions which come to us from natural causes, such as sickness and physical
pain, or from some chance such as the loss of our money by the breaking of a bank, an heroic
man will bear without even inward complainings. But a sense of wrong done to him by friends
will stir him, not by the misery inflicted, but because of the injustice; and that which he
says to himself he will say to his wife, if his wife be to him a second self, or to his friend,
if he have one so dear to him. The testimony by which the writers I have named have been led
to treat Cicero so severely has been found in the letters which he wrote during his exile;
and of these letters all but one were addressed either to Atticus or to his wife or to his
brother.[268] Twenty-seven of them were to Atticus. Before he accepted a voluntary exile, as
the best solution of the difficulty in which he was placed--for it was voluntary at first,
as will be seen--he applied to the Consul Piso for aid, and for the same purpose visited Pompey.
So far he was a suppliant, but this he did in conformity with Roman usage. In asking favor
of a man in power there was held to be no disgrace, even though the favor asked were one improper
to be granted, which was not the case with Cicero. And he went about the Forum in mourning--"sordidatus"--as
was the custom with men on their trial. We cannot doubt that in each of these cases he acted
with the advice of his friends. His conduct and his words after his return from exile betray
exultation rather than despondency.

It is from the letters which he wrote to Atticus that he has been judged--from words boiling
with indignation that such a one as he should have been surrendered by the Rome that he had
saved, by those friends to whom he had been so true to be trampled on by such a one as Clodius!
When a man has written words intended for the public ear, it is fair that he should bear the
brunt of them, be it what it may. He has intended them for public effect, and if they are used
against him he should not complain. But here the secret murmurings of the man's soul were sent
forth to his choicest friend, with no idea that from them would he be judged by the "historians
to come in 600 years,"[269] of whose good word he thought so much. "Quid vero historiæ de nobis
ad annos DC. prædicarint!" he says, to Atticus. How is it that from them, after 2000 years,
the Merivales, Mommsens, and Froudes condemn their great brother in letters whose lightest
utterances have been found worthy of so long a life! Is there not an injustice in falling upon
a man's private words, words when written intended only for privacy, and making them the basis
of an accusation in which an illustrious man shall be arraigned forever as a coward? It is
said that he was unjust even to Atticus, accusing even Atticus of lukewarmness. What if he
did so--for an hour? Is that an affair of ours? Did Atticus quarrel with him? Let any leader
of these words who has lived long enough to have an old friend, ask himself whether there has
never been a moment of anger in his heart--of anger of which he has soon learned to recognize
the injustice? He may not have written his angel, but then, perhaps, he has not had the pen
of a Cicero. Let those who rebuke the unmanliness of Cicero's wailings remember what were his
sufferings. The story has yet to be told, but I may in rough words describe their nature. Everything
was to be taken from him: all that he had--his houses, his books, his pleasant gardens, his
busts and pictures, his wide retinue of slaves, and possessions lordly as are those of our
dukes and earls. He was driven out from Italy and so driven that no place of delight could
be open to him. Sicily, where he had friends, Athens, where he might have lived, were closed
against him. He had to look where to live, and did live for a while on money borrowed from
his friends. All the cherished occupations of his life were over for him--the law courts, the
Forum, the Senate, and the crowded meetings of Roman citizens hanging on his words. The circumstances
of his exile separated him from his wife and children, so that he was alone. All this was assured
to him for life, as far as Roman law could assure it. Let us think of the condition of some
great and serviceable Englishman in similar circumstances. Let us suppose that Sir Robert Peel
had been impeached, and forced by some iniquitous sentence to live beyond the pale of civilization:
that the houses at Whitehall Gardens and at Drayton had been confiscated, dismantled, and levelled
to the ground, and his rents and revenues made over to his enemies; that everything should
have been done to destroy him by the country he had served, except the act of taking away that
life which would thus have been made a burden to him. Would not his case have been more piteous,
a source of more righteous indignation, than that even of the Mores or Raleighs? He suffered
under invectives in the House of Commons, and we sympathized with him; but if some Clodius
of the day could have done this to him, should we have thought the worse of him had he opened
his wounds to his wife, or to his brother, or to his friend of friends?

Had Cicero put an end to his life in his exile, as he thought of doing, he would have been
a second Cato to admiring posterity, and some Lucan with rolling verses would have told us
narratives of his valor. The judges of to-day look back to his half-formed purposes in this
direction as being an added evidence of the weakness of the man; but had he let himself blood
and have perished in his bath, he would have been thought to have escaped from life as honorably
as did Junius Brutus It is because he dared to live on that we are taught to think so little
of him? because he had antedated Christianity so far as to feel when the moment came that such
an escape was, in truth, unmanly. He doubted, and when the deed had not been done he expressed
regret that he had allowed himself to live. But he did not do it? as Cato would have done,
or Brutus.

It may be as well here to combat, in as few words as possible, the assertions which have been
made that Cicero, having begun life as a democrat, discarded his colors as soon as he had received
from the people those honors for which he had sought popularity. They who have said so have
taken their idea from the fact that, in much of his early forensic work, he spoke against the
aristocratic party. He attacked Sulla, through his favorite Chrysogonus, in his defence of
Roscius Amerinus. He afterward defended a woman of Arretium in the spirit of antagonism to
Sulla. His accusation of Verres was made on the same side in politics, and was carried on in
opposition to Hortensius and the oligarchs. He defended the Tribune Caius Cornelius. Then,
when he became Consul, he devoted himself to the destruction of Catiline, who was joined with
many, perhaps with Cæsar's sympathy, in the conspiracy for the overthrow of the Republic. Cæsar
soon became the leader of the democracy? became rather what Mommsen describes as "Democracy"
itself; and as Cicero had defended the Senate from Catiline, and had refused to attach himself
to Cæsar, he is supposed to have turned from the political ideas of his youth, and to have
become a Conservative when Conservative ideas suited his ambition.

I will not accept the excuse put forward on his behalf, that the early speeches were made on
the side of democracy because the exigencies of the occasion required him to so devote his
energies as an advocate. No doubt he was an advocate, as are our barristers of to-day, and,
as an advocate, supported this side or that; but we shall be wrong if we suppose that the Roman
"patronus" supplied his services under such inducements. With us a man goes into the profession
of the law with the intention of making money, and takes the cases right and left, unless there
be special circumstances which may debar him from doing so with honor. It is a point of etiquette
with him to give his assistance, in turn, as he may be called on; so much so, that leading
men are not unfrequently employed on one side simply that they may not be employed on the other
side. It should not be urged on the part of Cicero that, so actuated, he defended Amerinus,
a case in which he took part against the aristocrats, or defended Publius Sulla, in doing which
he appeared on the side of the aristocracy. Such a defence of his conduct would be misleading,
and might be confuted. It would be confuted by those who suppose him to have been "notoriously
a political trimmer," as Mommsen has[270] called him; or a "deserter," as he was described
by Dio Cassius and by the Pseudo-Sallust,[271] by showing that in fact he took up causes under
the influence of strong personal motives such as rarely govern an English barrister. These
motives were in many cases partly political; but they operated in such a manner as to give
no guide to his political views. In defending Sulla's nephew he was moved, as far as we know,
solely by private motives. In defending Amerinus he may be said to have attacked Sulla. His
object was to stamp out the still burning embers of Sulla's cruelty; but not the less was he
wedded to Sulla's general views as to the restoration of the authority of the Senate. In his
early speeches, especially in that spoken against Verres, he denounces the corruption of the
senatorial judges; but at that very period of his life he again and again expresses his own
belief in the glory and majesty of the Senate. In accusing Verres he accused the general corruption
of Rome's provincial governors; and as they were always past-Consuls or past-Prætors, and had
been the elite of the aristocracy, he may be said so far to have taken the part of a democrat;
but he had done so only so far as he had found himself bound by a sense of duty to put a stop
to corruption. The venality of the judges and the rapacity of governors had been fit objects
for his eloquence; but I deny that he can be fairly charged with having tampered with democracy
because he had thus used his eloquence on behalf of the people.

He was no doubt stirred by other political motives less praiseworthy, though submitted to in
accordance with the practice and the known usages of Rome. He had undertaken to speak for Catiline
when Catiline was accused of corruption on his return from Africa, knowing that Catiline had
been guilty. He did not do so; but the intention, for our present purpose, is the same as the
doing. To have defended Catiline would have assisted him in his operations as a candidate for
the Consulship. Catiline was a bad subject for a defence--as was Fonteius, whom he certainly
did defend--and Catiline was a democrat. But Cicero, had he defended Catiline, would not have
done so as holding out his hand to democracy. Cicero, when, in the Pro Lege Manilia, he for
the first time addressed the people, certainly spoke in opposition to the wishes of the Senate
in proposing that Pompey should have the command of the Mithridatic war; but his views were
not democratic. It has been said that this was done because Pompey could help him to the Consulship.
To me it seems that he had already declared to himself that among leading men in Rome Pompey
was the one to whom the Republic would look with the most security as a bulwark, and that on
that account he had resolved to bind himself to Pompey in some political marriage. Be that
as it may, there was no tampering with democracy in the speech Pro Lege Manilia. Of all the
extant orations made by him before his Consulship, the attentive reader will sympathize the
least with that of Fonteius. After his scathing onslaught on Verres for provincial plunder,
he defended the plunderer of the Gauls, and held up the suffering allies of Rome to ridicule
as being hardly entitled to good government. This he did simply as an advocate, without political
motive of any kind--in the days in which he was supposed to be currying favor with democracy--governed
by private friendship, looking forward, probably, to some friendly office in return, as was
customary. It was thus that afterward he defended Antony, his colleague in the Consulship,
whom he knew to have been a corrupt governor. Autronius had been a party to Catiline's conspiracy,
and Autronius had been Cicero's school-fellow; but Cicero, for some reserved reason with which
we are not acquainted, refused to plead for Autronius. There is, I maintain, no ground for
suggesting that Cicero had shown by his speeches before his Consulship any party adherence.
The declaration which he made after his Consulship, in the speech for Sulla, that up to the
time of Catiline's first conspiracy forensic duties had not allowed him to devote himself to
party politics, is entitled to belief: we know, indeed, that it was so. As Quæstor, as Ædile,
and as Prætor, he did not interfere in the political questions of Rome, except in demanding
justice from judges and purity from governors. When he became Consul then he became a politician,
and after that there was certainly no vacillation in his views. Critics say that he surrendered
himself to Cæsar when Cæsar became master. We shall come to that hereafter; but the accusation
with which I am dealing now is that which charges him with having abandoned the democratic
memories of his youth as soon as he had enveloped himself with the consular purple. There had
been no democratic promises, and there was no change when he became Consul.

In truth, Cicero's political convictions were the same from the beginning to the end of his
career, with a consistency which is by no means usual in politicians; for though, before his
Consulship, he had not taken up politics as a business he had entertained certain political
views, as do all men who live in public. From the first to the last we may best describe him
by the word we have now in use, as a conservative. The government of Rome had been an oligarchy
for many years, though much had been done by the citizens to reduce the thraldom which an oligarchy
is sure to exact. To that oligarchy Cicero was bound by all the convictions, by all the practices,
and by all the prejudices of his life. When he speaks of a Republic he speaks of a people and
of an Empire governed by an oligarchy; he speaks of a power to be kept in the hands of a few--for
the benefit of the few, and of the many if it might be--but at any rate in the hands of a few.
That those few should be so select as to admit of no new-comers among them, would probably
have been a portion of his political creed, had he not been himself a "novus homo." As he was
the first of his family to storm the barrier of the fortress, he had been forced to depend
much on popular opinion; but not on that account had there been any dealings between him and
democracy. That the Empire should be governed according to the old oligarchical forms which
had been in use for more than four centuries, and had created the power of Rome--that was his
political creed. That Consuls, Censors, and Senators might go on to the end of time with no
diminution of their dignity, but with great increase of justice and honor and truth among them--that
was his political aspiration. They had made Rome what it was, and he knew and could imagine
nothing better; and, odious as an oligarchy is seen to be under the strong light of experience
to which prolonged ages has subjected it, the aspiration on his part was noble. He has been
wrongly accused of deserting "that democracy with which he had flirted in his youth." There
had been no democracy in his youth, though there had existed such a condition in the time of
the Gracchi. There was none in his youth and none in his age. That which has been wrongly called
democracy was conspiracy--not a conspiracy of democrats such as led to our Commonwealth, or
to the American Independence, or to the French Revolution; but conspiracy of a few nobles for
the better assurance of the plunder, and the power, and the high places of the Empire. Of any
tendency toward democracy no man has been less justly accused than Cicero, unless it might
be Cæsar. To Cæsar we must accord the merit of having seen that a continuation of the old oligarchical
forms was impracticable This Cicero did not see. He thought that the wounds inflicted by the
degeneracy and profligacy of individuals were curable. It is attributed to Cæsar that he conceived
the grand idea of establishing general liberty under the sole dominion of one great, and therefore
beneficent, ruler. I think he saw no farther than that he, by strategy, management, and courage
might become this ruler, whether beneficent or the reverse. But here I think that it becomes
the writer, whether he be historian, biographer, or fill whatever meaner position he may in
literature, to declare that no beneficence can accompany such a form of government. For all
temporary sleekness, for metropolitan comfort and fatness, the bill has to be paid sooner or
later in ignorance, poverty, and oppression. With an oligarchy there will be other, perhaps
graver, faults; but with an oligarchy there will be salt, though it be among a few. There will
be a Cicero now and again--or at least a Cato. From the dead, stagnant level of personal despotism
there can be no rising to life till corruption paralyzes the hands of power, and the fabric
falls by its own decay Of this no proof can be found in the world's history so manifest as
that taught by the Roman Empire.

I think it is made clear by a study of Cicero's life and works, up to the period of his exile,
that an adhesion to the old forms of the Roman Government was his guiding principle. I am sure
that they who follow me to the close of his career will acknowledge that after his exile he
lived for this principle, and that he died for it. "Respublica," the Republic, was the one
word which to his ear contained a political charm. It was the shibboleth by which men were
to be conjured into well-being. The word constitution is nearly as potent with us. But it is
essential that the reader of Roman history and Roman biography should understand that the appellation
had in it, for all Roman ears, a thoroughly conservative meaning. Among those who at Cicero's
period dealt with politics in Rome--all of whom, no doubt, spoke of the Republic as the vessel
of State which was to be defended by all persons--there were four classes. These were they
who simply desired the plunder of the State--the Catilines, the Sullas of the day, and the
Antonys; men such as Verres had been, and Fonteius, and Autronius. The other three can be best
typified each by one man. There was Cæsar, who knew that the Republic was gone, past all hope.
There was Cato--"the dogmatical fool Cato" as Mommsen calls him, perhaps with some lack of
the historian's dignity--who was true to the Republic, who could not bend an inch, and was
thus as detrimental to any hope of reconstruction as a Catiline or a Cæsar. Cicero was of the
fourth class, believing in the Republic, intent on saving it, imbued amid all his doubts with
a conviction that if the "optimates" or "boni"--the leading men of the party--would be true
to themselves, Consuls, Censors, and Senate would still suffice to rule the world; but prepared
to give and take with those who were opposed to him. It was his idea that political integrity
should keep its own hands clean, but should wink at much dirt in the world at large. Nothing,
he saw, could be done by Catonic rigor. We can see now that Ciceronic compromises were, and
must have been, equally ineffective. The patient was past cure. But in seeking the truth as
to Cicero, we have to perceive that amid all his doubts, frequently in despondency, sometimes
overwhelmed by the misery and hopelessness of his condition, he did hold fast by this idea
to the end. The frequent expressions made to Atticus in opposition to this belief are to be
taken as the murmurs of his mind at the moment; as you shall hear a man swear that all is gone,
and see him tear his hair, and shall yet know that there is a deep fund of hope within his
bosom. It was the ingratitude of his political friends, his "boni" and his "optimates," of
Pompey as their head, which tried him the sorest; but he was always forgiving them, forgiving
Pompey as the head of them, because he knew that, were he to be severed from them, then the
political world must be closed to him altogether.

Of Cicero's strength or Cicero's weakness Pompey seems to have known nothing. He was no judge
of men. Cæsar measured him with a great approach to accuracy. Cæsar knew him to be the best
Roman of his day; one who, if he could be brought over to serve in Cæsarean ranks, would be
invaluable--because of his honesty, his eloquence, and his capability; but he knew him as one
who must be silenced if he were not brought to serve on the Cæsarean side. Such a man, however,
might be silenced for a while--taught to perceive that his efforts were vain--and then brought
into favor by further overtures, and made of use. Personally he was pleasant to Cæsar, who
had taste enough to know that he was a man worthy of all personal dignity. But Cæsar was not,
I think, quite accurate in his estimation, having allowed himself to believe at the last that
Cicero's energy on behalf of the Republic had been quelled.

[Sidenote: B.C. 58, ætat. 49.]

Now we will go back to the story of Cicero's exile. Gradually during the preceding year he
had learned that Clodius was preparing to attack him, and to doubt whether he could expect
protection from the Triumvirate. That he could be made safe by the justice either of the people
or by that of any court before which he could be tried, seems never to have occurred to him.
He knew the people and he knew the courts too well. Pompey no doubt might have warded off the
coming evil; such at least was Cicero's idea. To him Pompey was the greatest political power
as yet extant in Rome; but he was beginning to believe that Pompey would be untrue to him.
When he had sent to Pompey a long account of the grand doings of his Consulship, Pompey had
replied with faintest praises. He had rejected the overtures of the Triumvirate. In the last
letter to Atticus in the year before, written in August,[272] he had declared that the Republic
was ruined; that they who had brought things to this pass--meaning the Triumvirate--were hostile;
but, for himself, he was confident in saying that he was quite safe in the good will of men
around him. There is a letter to his brother written in November, the next letter in the collection,
in which he says that Pompey and Cæsar promise him everything. With the exception of two letters
of introduction, we have nothing from him till he writes to Atticus from the first scene of
his exile.

When the new year commenced, Clodius was Tribune of the people, and immediately was active.
Piso and Gabinius were Consuls. Piso was kinsman to Piso Frugi, who had married Cicero's daughter,[273]and
was expected to befriend Cicero at this crisis. But Clodius procured the allotment of Syria
and Macedonia to the two Consuls by the popular vote. They were provinces rich in plunder;
and it was matter of importance for a Consul to know that the prey which should come to him
as Proconsul should be worthy of his grasp. They were, therefore, ready to support the Tribune
in what he proposed to do. It was necessary to Cicero's enemies that there should be some law
by which Cicero might be condemned. It would not be within the power of Clodius, even with
the Triumvirate at his back, to drive the man out of Rome and out of Italy, without an alleged
cause. Though justice had been tabooed, law was still in vogue. Now there was a matter as to
which Cicero was open to attack. As Consul he had caused certain Roman citizens to be executed
as conspirators, in the teeth of a law which enacted that no Roman citizen should be condemned
to die except by a direct vote of the people. It had certainly become a maxim of the constitution
of the Republic that a citizen should not be made to suffer death except by the voice of the
people. The Valerian, the Porcian, and the Sempronian laws had all been passed to that effect.
Now there had been no popular vote as to the execution of Lentulus and the other conspirators,
who had been taken red-handed in Rome in the affair of Catiline. Their death had been decreed
by the Senate, and the decree of the Senate had been carried out by Cicero; but no decree of
the Senate had the power of a law. In spite of that decree the old law was in force; and no
appeal to the people had been allowed to Lentulus. But there had grown up in the constitution
a practice which had been supposed to override the Valerian and Porcian laws. In certain emergencies
the Senate would call upon the Consuls to see that the Republic should suffer no injury, and
it had been held that at such moments the Consuls were invested with an authority above all
law. Cicero had been thus strengthened when, as Consul, he had struggled with Catiline; but
it was an open question, as Cicero himself very well knew. In the year of his Consulship--the
very year in which Lentulus and the others had been strangled--he had defended Rabirius, who
was then accused of having killed a citizen thirty years before. Rabirius was charged with
having slaughtered the Tribune Saturninus by consular authority, the Consuls of the day having
been ordered to defend the Republic, as Cicero had been ordered. Rabirius probably had not
killed Saturninus, nor did any one now care whether he had done so or not. The trial had been
brought about notoriously by the agency of Cæsar, who caused himself to be selected by the
Prætor as one of the two judges for the occasion;[274] and Cæsar's object as notoriously was
to lessen the authority of the Senate, and to support the democratic interest. Both Cicero
and Hortensius defended Rabirius, but he was condemned by Cæsar, and, as we are told, himself
only escaped by using that appeal to the people in support of which he had himself been brought
to trial. In this, as in so many of the forensic actions of the day, there had been an admixture
of violence and law. We must, I think, acknowledge that there was the same leaven of illegality
in the proceedings against Lentulus. It had no doubt been the intention of the constitution
that a Consul, in the heat of an emergency, should use his personal authority for the protection
of the Commonwealth, but it cannot be alleged that there was such an emergency, when the full
Senate had had time to debate on the fate of the Catiline criminals. Both from Cæsar's words
as reported by Sallust, and from Cicero's as given to us by himself, we are aware that an idea
of the illegality of the proceeding was present in the minds of Senators at the moment. But,
though law was loved at Rome, all forensic and legislative proceedings were at this time carried
on with monstrous illegality. Consuls consulted the heavens falsely; Tribunes used their veto
violently; judges accepted bribes openly; the votes of the people were manipulated fraudulently.
In the trial and escape of Rabirius, the laws were despised by those who pretended to vindicate
them. Clodius had now become a Tribune by the means of certain legal provision, but yet in
opposition to all law. In the conduct of the affair against Catiline Cicero seems to have been
actuated by pure patriotism, and to have been supported by a fine courage; but he knew that
in destroying Lentulus and Cethegus he subjected himself to certain dangers. He had willingly
faced these dangers for the sake of the object in view. As long as he might remain the darling
of the people, as he was at that moment, he would no doubt be safe; but it was not given to
any one to be for long the darling of the Roman people. Cicero had become so by using an eloquence
to which the Romans were peculiarly susceptible; but though they loved sweet tongues, long
purses went farther with them. Since Cicero's Consulship he had done nothing to offend the
people, except to remain occasionally out of their sight; but he had lost the brilliancy of
his popularity, and he was aware that it was so.

In discussing popularity in Rome we have to remember of what elements it was formed. We hear
that this or that man was potent at some special time by the assistance coming to him from
the popular voice. There was in Rome a vast population of idle men, who had been trained by
their city life to look to the fact of their citizenship for their support, and who did, in
truth, live on their citizenship. Of "panem et circenses" we have all heard, and know that
eleemosynary bread and the public amusements of the day supplied the material and æsthetic
wants of many Romans. But men so fed and so amused were sure to need further occupations. They
became attached to certain friends, to certain patrons, and to certain parties, and soon learned
that a return was expected for the food and for the excitement supplied to them. This they
gave by holding themselves in readiness for whatever violence was needed from them, till it
became notorious in Rome that a great party man might best attain his political object by fighting
for it in the streets. This was the meaning of that saying of Crassus, that a man could not
be considered rich till he could keep an army in his own pay. A popular vote obtained and declared
by a faction fight in the forum was still a popular vote, and if supported by sufficient violence
would be valid. There had been street fighting of the kind when Cicero had defended Caius Cornelius,
in the year after his Prætorship; there had been fighting of the kind when Rabirius had been
condemned in his Consulship. We shall learn by-and-by to what extent such fighting prevailed
when Clodius was killed by Milo's body-guard. At the period of which we are now writing, when
Clodius was intent on pursuing Cicero to his ruin, it was a question with Cicero himself whether
he would not trust to a certain faction in Rome to fight for him, and so to protect him. Though
his popularity was on the wane--that general popularity which, we may presume, had been produced
by the tone of his voice and the grace of his language--there still remained to him that other
popularity which consisted, in truth, of the trained bands employed by the "boni" and the "optimates,"
and which might be used, if need were, in opposition to trained bands on the other side.

The bill first proposed by Clodius to the people with the object of destroying Cicero did not
mention Cicero, nor, in truth, refer to him. It purported to enact that he who had caused to
be executed any Roman citizen not duly condemned to death, should himself be deprived of the
privilege of water or fire.[275] This condemned no suggested malefactor to death; but, in accordance
with Roman law, made it impossible that any Roman so condemned should live within whatever
bounds might be named for this withholding of fire and water. The penalty intended was banishment;
but by this enactment no individual would be banished. Cicero, however, at once took the suggestion
to himself, and put himself into mourning, as a man accused and about to be brought to his
trial. He went about the streets accompanied by crowds armed for his protection; and Clodius
also caused himself to be so accompanied. There came thus to be a question which might prevail
should there be a general fight. The Senate was, as a body, on Cicero's side, but was quite
unable to cope with the Triumvirate. Cæsar no doubt had resolved that Cicero should be made
to go, and Cæsar was lord of the Triumvirate. On behalf of Cicero there was a large body of
the conservative or oligarchical party who were still true to him; and they, too, all went
into the usual public mourning, evincing their desire that the accused man should be rescued
from his accusers.

The bitterness of Clodius would be surprising did we not know how bitter had been Cicero's
tongue. When the affair of the Bona Dea had taken place there was no special enmity between
this debauched young man and the great Consul. Cicero, though his own life had ever been clean
and well ordered, rather affected the company of fast young men when he found them to be witty
as well as clever. This very Clodius had been in his good books till the affair of the Bona
Dea. But now the Tribune's hatred was internecine. I have hitherto said nothing, and need say
but little, of a certain disreputable lady named Clodia. She was the sister of Clodius and
the wife of Metellus Celer. She was accused by public voice in Rome of living in incest with
her brother, and of poisoning her husband. Cicero calls her afterward, in his defence of Cælius,
"amica omnium." She had the nickname of Quadrantaria[276] given to her, because she frequented
the public baths, at which the charge was a farthing. It must be said also of her, either in
praise or in dispraise, that she was the Lesbia who inspired the muse of Catullus. It was rumored
in Rome that she had endeavored to set her cap at Cicero. Cicero in his raillery had not spared
the lady. To speak publicly the grossest evil of women was not opposed to any idea of gallantry
current among the Romans. Our sense of chivalry, as well as decency, is disgusted by the language
used by Horace to women who once to him were young and pretty, but have become old and ugly.
The venom of Cicero's abuse of Clodia annoys us, and we have to remember that the gentle ideas
which we have taken in with our mother's milk had not grown into use with the Romans. It is
necessary that this woman's name should be mentioned, and it may appear here as she was one
of the causes of that hatred which burnt between Clodius and Cicero, till Clodius was killed
in a street row.

It has been presumed that Cicero was badly advised in presuming publicly that the new law was
intended against himself, and in taking upon himself the outward signs of a man under affliction.
"The resolution," says Middleton, "of changing his gown was too hasty and inconsiderate, and
helped to precipitate his ruin." He was sensible of his error when too late, and oft reproaches
Atticus that, being a stander-by, and less heated with the game than himself, he would suffer
him to make such blunders. And he quotes the words written to Atticus: "Here my judgment first
failed me, or, indeed, brought me into trouble. We were blind, blind I say, in changing our
raiment and in appealing to the populace. * * * I handed myself and all belonging to me over
to my enemies, while you were looking on, while you were holding your peace; yes, you, who,
if your wit in the matter was no better than mine, were impeded by no personal fears."[277]
But the reader should study the entire letter, and study it in the original, for no translator
can give its true purport. This the reader must do before he can understand Cicero's state
of mind when writing it, or his relation to Atticus; or the thoughts which distracted him when,
in accordance with the advice of Atticus, he resolved, while yet uncondemned, to retire into
banishment. The censure to which Atticus is subjected throughout this letter is that which
a thoughtful, hesitating, scrupulous man is so often disposed to address to himself. After
reminding Atticus of the sort of advice which should have been given--the want of which in
the first moment of his exile he regrets--and doing this in words of which it is very difficult
now to catch the exact flavor, he begs to be pardoned for his reproaches. "You will forgive
me this," he says. "I blame myself more than I do you; but I look to you as a second self,
and I make you a sharer with me of my own folly." I take this letter out of its course, and
speak of it as connected with that terrible period of doubt to which it refers, in which he
had to decide whether he would remain in Rome and fight it out, or run before his enemies.
But in writing the letter afterward his mind was as much disturbed as when he did fly. I am
inclined, therefore, to think that Middleton and others may have been wrong in blaming his
flight, which they have done, because in his subsequent vacillating moods he blamed himself.
How the battle might have gone had he remained, we have no evidence to show; but we do know
that though he fled, he returned soon with renewed glory, and altogether overcame the attempt
which had been made to destroy him.

In this time of his distress a strong effort was made by the Senate to rescue him. It was proposed
to them that they all as a body should go into mourning on his behalf; indeed, the Senate passed
a vote to this effect, but were prevented by the two Consuls from carrying it out. As to what
he had best do he and his friends were divided. Some recommended that he should remain where
he was, and defend himself by street-fighting should it be necessary. In doing this he would
acknowledge that law no longer prevailed in Rome--a condition of things to which many had given
in their adherence, but with which Cicero would surely have been the last to comply. He himself,
in his despair, thought for a time that the old Roman mode of escape would be preferable, and
that he might with decorum end his life and his troubles by suicide. Atticus and others dissuaded
him from this, and recommended him to fly. Among these Cato and Hortensius have both been named.
To this advice he at last yielded, and it may be doubted whether any better could have been
given. Lawlessness, which had been rampant in Rome before, had, under the Triumvirate, become
almost lawful. It was Cæsar's intention to carry out his will with such compliance with the
forms of the Republic as might suit him, but in utter disregard to all such forms when they
did not suit him. The banishment of Cicero was one of the last steps taken by Cæsar before
he left Rome for his campaigns in Gaul. He was already in command of the legions, and was just
without the city. He had endeavored to buy Cicero, but had failed. Having failed, he had determined
to be rid of him. Clodius was but his tool, as were Pompey and the two Consuls. Had Cicero
endeavored to support himself by violence in Rome, his contest would, in fact have been with Cæsar.

