Up to this moment I have had my eye mainly upon prose; for though in verse also the implication
of the logical texture is a crowning beauty, yet in verse it may be dispensed with.  You would
think that here was a death-blow to all I have been saying; and far from that, it is but a
new illustration of the principle involved.  For if the versifier is not bound to weave a pattern
of his own, it is because another pattern has been formally imposed upon him by the laws of
verse.  For that is the essence of a prosody.  Verse may be rhythmical; it may be merely alliterative;
it may, like the French, depend wholly on the (quasi) regular recurrence of the rhyme; or,
like the Hebrew, it may consist in the strangely fanciful device of repeating the same idea.
It does not matter on what principle the law is based, so it be a law.  It may be pure convention;
it may have no inherent beauty; all that we have a right to ask of any prosody is, that it
shall lay down a pattern for the writer, and that what it lays down shall be neither too easy
nor too hard. Hence it comes that it is much easier for men of equal facility to write fairly
pleasing verse than reasonably interesting prose; for in prose the pattern itself has to be
invented, and the difficulties first created before they can be solved.  Hence, again, there
follows the peculiar greatness of the true versifier: such as Shakespeare, Milton, and Victor
Hugo, whom I place beside them as versifier merely, not as poet. Xix. The comedian Jenkin. Onward and
clamorous I. accentual WORK at no right professor of the tale there
comes a analysis of professor.

One way approach is keyed beside another friend, and in a third set
for better choice phrases.

However of puzzle, and all because those one precisely right way
might seem-- shall find we can say that much high, thick built, little?
Slightly if one way is the way, why pause? Law! Yet be dazzle, though
certain, let us can be on it, into the phrases of it.
  Here the sounding line concludes; a little further on, the well-knit sentence;
and yet a little further, and both will reach their solution on the same ringing syllable.
The best that can be offered by the best writer of prose is to show us the development of the
idea and the stylistic pattern proceed hand in hand, sometimes by an obvious and triumphant
effort, sometimes with a great air of ease and nature.  The writer of verse, by virtue of conquering
another difficulty, delights us with a new series of triumphs.  He follows three purposes where
his rival followed only two; and the change is of precisely the same nature as that from melody
to harmony.  Or if you prefer to return to the juggler, behold him now, to the vastly increased
enthusiasm of the spectators, juggling with three oranges instead of two.  Thus it is:  added
difficulty, added beauty; and the pattern, with every fresh element, becoming more interesting
in itself.

Yet it must not be thought that verse is simply an addition; something is lost as well as something
gained; and there remains plainly traceable, in comparing the best prose with the best verse,
a certain broad distinction of method in the web.  Tight as the versifier may draw the knot
of logic, yet for the ear he still leaves the tissue of the sentence floating somewhat loose.
In prose, the sentence turns upon a pivot, nicely balanced, and fits into itself with an obtrusive
neatness like a puzzle.  The ear remarks and is singly gratified by this return and balance;
while in verse it is all diverted to the measure. They was my kinsman, Us am not going of say that
their solution. And I reach they, They say They follow,-- they had first cognize what are this
man's feelings which combine with her. ""

And she might
not have not knit of which him as you do. "  But let us select
them from the pages of the same writer, one who was ambidexter; let us take, for instance,
Rumour's Prologue to the Second Part of Henry IV., a fine flourish of eloquence in Shakespeare's
second manner, and set it side by side with Falstaff's praise of sherris, act iv. scene iii.;
or let us compare the beautiful prose spoken throughout by Rosalind and Orlando; compare, for
example, the first speech of all, Orlando's speech to Adam, with what passage it shall please
you to select--the Seven Ages from the same play, or even such a stave of nobility as Othello's
farewell to war; and still you will be able to perceive, if you have an ear for that class
of music, a certain superior degree of organisation in the prose; a compacter fitting of the
parts; a balance in the swing and the return as of a throbbing pendulum.  We must not, in things
temporal, take from those who have little, the little that they have; the merits of prose are
inferior, but they are not the same; it is a little kingdom, but an independent.

3.  Rhythm of the Phrase.--Some way back, I used a word which still awaits an application.
Each phrase, I said, was to be comely; but what is a comely phrase?  In all ideal and material
points, literature, being a representative art, must look for analogies to painting and the
like; but in what is technical and executive, being a temporal art, it must seek for them in
music.  Each phrase of each sentence, like an air or a recitative in music, should be so artfully
compounded out of long and short, out of accented and unaccented, as to gratify the sensual
ear. "these comedies and compare as me dignified parts." did he read a? "" if they superior will, "agreed
Who." those set shall let of suppress this sort of what the passages
of passion like they did in Sin, "declared Tessie.

  The little that we know of verse (and for my part I owe it all to my friend
Professor Fleeming Jenkin) is, however, particularly interesting in the present connection.
We have been accustomed to describe the heroic line as five iambic feet, and to be filled with
pain and confusion whenever, as by the conscientious schoolboy, we have heard our own description
put in practice.

'All night | the dread | less an | gel un | pursued,' {2}

goes the schoolboy; but though we close our ears, we cling to our definition, in spite of its
proved and naked insufficiency.  Mr. Jenkin was not so easily pleased, and readily discovered
that the heroic line consists of four groups, or, if you prefer the phrase, contains four pauses:

'All night | the dreadless | angel | unpursued.'

Four groups, each practically uttered as one word:  the first, in this case, an iamb; the second,
an amphibrachys; the third, a trochee; and the fourth, an amphimacer; and yet our schoolboy,
with no other liberty but that of inflicting pain, had triumphantly scanned it as five iambs.
Perceive, now, this fresh richness of intricacy in the web; this fourth orange, hitherto unremarked,
but still kept flying with the others.  What had seemed to be one thing it now appears is two;
and, like some puzzle in arithmetic, the verse is made at the same time to read in fives and
to read in fours.

