The barbaric diversions of the day are done. The firing squad leave the guns. The twang of
guitar and screech of violin open the fandango.

The young cavaliers desert the streets. Bibulous dignitaries sit in council around Governor
Alvarado's table. Mexican cigars, wine in old silver flagons (fashioned by the deft workers
of Chihuahua and Durango), and carafes of aguadiente, garnish the board.

The mahogany table (a mark of official grandeur), transported from Acapulco, is occupied (below
the salt) by the young officers. Horse-racing, cock-fighting, and gambling on the combat of
bear and bull, have not exhausted their passions. Public monte and faro leave them a few "doubloons"
yet. Seated with piles of Mexican dollars before them, the young heroes enjoy a "lay-out."
All their coin comes from Mexico. Hundreds of millions, in unminted gold and silver, lie under
their careless feet, yet their "pieces of eight" date back to Robinson Crusoe! This is the
land of "manana!" Had Hernando Cortez not found the treasures of Mexico, he might have fought
his way north, over the Gila Desert, to the golden hoards of the sprites of the Sierras.

At the banquet fiery Alvarado counselled with General Vallejo. Flushed with victory, Captain
Miguel was the lion of this feast. He chatted with his compadres.

The seniors talked over the expulsion of the strangers.

Cool advisers feared trouble from France, England, or the United States. Alvarado's instinct
told him that foreigners would gain a mastery over the Dons, if permitted to enter in numbers.
Texas was an irresistible warning. "Senores," said Alvarado, "the Russians came in 1812. Only
a few, with their Kodiak Indians, settled at Bodega. Look at them now! They control beautiful
Bodega! They are 800 souls! True, they say they are going, but only our posts at San Rafael
and Sonoma checked them. A fear of your sword, General!" Alvarado drank to Vallejo.

Vallejo bowed to his Governor. "Senor," said he, "you are right. I have seen Mexico. I have
been a scholar, as well as a soldier. I knew Von Resanoff's Russian slyness. My father was
at the Presidio in 1807, when he obtained rights for a few fur hunters. Poor fellow! he never
lived to claim his bride, but he was a diplomat."

"Foreigners will finally outroot us. Here is Sutter, building his fort on the Sacramento! He's
a good fellow, yet I'll have to burn New Helvetia about his ears some day. Russian or Swiss,
French or Yankee, it's all the same. The 'Gringo' is the worst of all. Poor Conception de Arguello.
She waited long for her dead Russian lover."

"General, do you think the Yankees can ever attack us by land?" said Alvarado.

"Madre de Dios! No!" cried Vallejo, "we will drag them at our horses' tails!"

"Then, I have no fear of them," said Alvarado. "We occupy San Diego, Santa Barbara, Monterey,
and San Francisco, the missions of San Juan Capistrano, Los Angeles, San Luis Obispo and Santa
Clara, and help to control the Indians, but these home troubles have stopped their useful growth."

Governor Alvarado sighed. Governor Hijar in 1834 had desecularized the Catholic missions. Their
cattle were stolen, their harvests and vineyards destroyed. The converts were driven off to
seek new homes among the Utes, Yubas, Feather River, Napa, and Mohave tribes.

Pious Alvarado crossed himself. He glanced uneasily at Padre Castillo,--at the board. Only
one or two priests were left at the beautiful settlements clustering around the old mission
churches. To-day these are the only architectural ornaments of Alta California.

"I doubt the wisdom of breaking up the missions," said Alvarado, with gloomy brow. A skeleton
was at this feast. The troubled Governor could not see the handwriting on the wall. He felt
California was a priceless jewel to Mexico. He feared imprudent measures. Lying dormant, California
slept since Cabrillo saw Cape Mendocino in 1542. After he turned his shattered prows back to
Acapulco on June 27, 1543, it was only on November 10, 1602, that ambitious Viscaino raised
the Spanish ensign at San Diego. He boldly claimed this golden land for Spain. Since that furtive
visit, the lonely coast lay unsettled. It was only used as a haunt by wild pirates, lurking
to attack the precious Philippine galleons sailing to Acapulco. For one hundred and sixty-eight
years the land was unvisited. Spanish greed and iron rule satisfied itself with grinding the
Mexicans and turning southward in the steps of Balboa and Pizarro.

Viscaino's neglected maps rotted in Madrid for two centuries. Fifty-five years of Spanish rule
left California undeveloped, save by the gentle padres who, aided by their escort, brought
in the domestic animals. They planted fruit-trees, grains, and the grape. They taught the peaceful
Indians agriculture. Flax, hemp, and cotton supplanted the skins of animals.

Alvarado and Vallejo remembered the Spanish war in 1822. At this banquet of victory, neither
thought that, a few years later, the rule of the Dons would be over; that their familiar places
would know them no more. Just retribution of fate! The Dons drove out the friars, and recked
not their own day was close at hand.

As the exultant victors stood drinking the toast of the day, "Muerte los estrangeros," neither
crafty statesman, sly priest, fiery general, wise old Don, nor reckless caballero, could predict
that the foreigners would return in two years. That they would come under protection of the
conquering British flag.

Alvarado was excited by his feuds with Micheltorrena. The people were divided into clericals
and anti-clericals. A time of "storm and stress" hung over all.

Wise in victory was Captain Miguel Peralta. His campaign against the foreigners marked the
close of his service. Born in 1798, his family were lords of broad lands on the Alamedas of
San Francisco Bay. He was sent to the city of Mexico and educated, serving in the army of the
young republic. Returning to Alta California, he became a soldier.

Often had he sallied out to drive the warlike Indian toward the Sacramento. In watching his
mustangs and cattle, he rode far to the slopes of the Sierra Nevadas. Their summits glittered
under the blue skies, crowned with silvery snows, unprofaned by the foot of man.

A sturdy caballero, courtly and sagacious. His forty-two years admonished him now to settle
in life. When Alvarado was in cheeriest mood, at the feast, the Captain reminded him of his
promise to release him. This would allow Peralta to locate a new ten-league-square grant of
lands, given him for past services to the State.

Graciously the Governor accorded the request. Noblesse oblige! "Don Miguel, is there any reason
for leaving us besides your new rancho?" said Alvarado. The Captain's cheek reddened a little.
"Senor Gobernador, I have served the State long," said he. "Juanita Castro waits for me at
San Francisco. I will lay off my rancho on the San Joaquin. I move there in the spring."

Alvarado was delighted. The health of Senorita Juanita Castro was honored by the whole table.
They drank an extra bumper for gallant Don Miguel, the bridegroom.

The Governor was pleased. Powerful Castros and Peraltas stretched from the Salinas, by San
Jose and Santa Clara, to Martinez; and San Rafael as well as Sonoma. By this clan, both Sutter's
Fort and the Russians could be watched.

This suitable marriage would bring a thousand daring horsemen to serve under the cool leadership
of Don Miguel in case of war.

Peralta told the Governor he would explore the San Joaquin. He wished to locate his ranch where
he could have timber, wood, water, game, and mountain air.

Don Miguel did not inform the chief of the state that in riding from San Diego to Cape Mendocino
he had found one particular garden of Paradise. He had marked this for his home when his sword
would be sheathed in honor.

"I will say, your Excellency," said the Captain, "I fear for the future. The Yankees are growing
in power and are grasping. They have robbed us of lovely Texas. Now, it is still a long way
for their ships to come around dreary Cape Horn. We had till late years only two vessels from
Boston; I saw their sails shining in the bay of San Francisco when I was five years old. I
have looked in the Presidio records for the names. The Alexander and the Aser, August 1st,
1803. Then, they begged only for wood and water and a little provision. Now, their hide-traders
swarm along our coast. They will by and by come with their huge war-ships. These trading-boats
have no cannon, but they are full of bad rum. Our coast people will be cleared out. Why, Catalina
Islands," continued the Captain, "were peopled once densely. There are yet old native temples
there. All these coast tribes have perished. It is even worse since the holy fathers were robbed
of their possessions."

The good soldier crossed himself in memory of the wise padres. They owned the thousands of
cattle, sheep, and horses once thronging the oat-covered hills. Theirs were the fruits, grains,
and comforts of these smiling valleys, untrodden yet by a foreign foe.

"Your Excellency, when the Yankee war-ships have come, we cannot resist them. Our batteries
are old and poor, we have little ammunition. Our arms are out of repair. The machete and lasso
are no match for their well-supplied men-of-war. I shall locate myself so far in the interior
that the accursed Gringos cannot reach me with their ships or their boats. The trappers who
straggle over the deserts from Texas our horsemen will lasso. They will bring them in bound
as prisoners."

"Miguel, mi compadre," said the Governor, "do you think they can cross the deserts?" He was
startled by Peralta's views of the future.

"Senor," said the Captain, "I saw the first American who came overland. The wanderer appeared
in 1826. It was the 20th of December. He was found half starved by our vaqueros. I have his
name here on a piece of paper. I have long carried it, for I was a guard over him."

Miguel slowly spelled off the detested Yankee name, Jedediah S. Smith, from a slip of cartridge
paper in his bolsa. Glory be to the name of Smith!

"Where THAT one Yankee found a way, more will come, but we will meet and fight them. This is
our OWN land by the right of discovery. The good King Philip II. of Spain rightfully claimed
this (from his orders to Viceroy Monterey in 1596). We get our town name here in his honor.
We will fight the English, and these accursed Yankees. They have no right to be here. This
is our home," cried fiery Miguel, as he pledged the hospitable Governor. He passed out into
the dreaming, starry night. As he listened to the waves softly breaking on the sandy beach,
he thought fondly of Juanita Castro. He fumbled over the countersign as the sentinel presented
his old flint-lock musket.

Both Governor and Captain sought the repose of their Spartan pillows. The Captain forgot, in
his zeal for Spanish dominion, that daring Sir Francis Drake, in days even then out of the
memory of man, piloted the "Golden Hind" into Drake's Bay. He landed near San Francisco in
1578, and remained till the early months of 1579. Under the warrant of "good Queen Bess" he
landed, and set up a pillar bearing a "fair metal plate" with a picture of that antiquated
but regal coquette. He nailed on the pillar a "fair struck silver five-pence," saluting the
same with discharge of culverins, much hearty English cheer and nautical jollity. The land
was English--by proscription.

Sir Francis, gallant and courtly, was, like many travellers, as skilful at drawing the long
bow as in wielding the rapier. He was not believed at home.

Notwithstanding, he tarried months and visited the inland Indians, bringing home many objects
of interest, announcing "much gold and silver," his voyage was vain. His real discovery was
deemed of no practical value. The robust Indians swarmed in thousands, living by the watersides
in huts, wearing deerskin cloaks and garments of rushes. Hunters and fishers were they. They
entertained the freebooter, and like him have long since mouldered to ashes. Along the Pacific
Coast great mounds of shells, marking their tribal seaside feasts, are now frequently unearthed.
Their humble history is shadowed by the passing centuries. They are only a memory, a shadow
on Time's stream. Good Queen Bess sleeps in the stately fane of Westminster. Sir Francis's
sword is rusted. The "brazen plate" recording that date and year is of a legendary existence
only. "Drake's Bay" alone keeps green the memory of the daring cruiser. Even in one century
the Spanish, Russian, Mexican, and American flags successively floated over the unfrequented
cliffs of California. Two hundred years before, the English ensign kissed the air in pride,
unchallenged by the haughty Spaniard.

Miguel Peralta was happy. He had invited all the officials to attend the nuptials by the Golden
Gate. Venus was in the ascendant. The red planet of Mars had set, he hoped, forever. The officers
and gentry contemplated a frolicsome ride around the Salinas bend, over the beautiful passes
to Santa Clara valley and the town of Yerba Buena.

Peralta's marriage was an excuse for general love making. A display of all the bravery of attire
and personal graces of man and maid was in order.

The soldier drifted into the land of dreams haunted by Juanita Castro's love-lit eyes and rare,
shy smile. No vision disturbed him of the foothold gained in Oregon by the Yankees. They sailed
past the entrance of San Francisco Bay, on the Columbia, in 1797, but they found the great
river of the northwest. They named it after their gallant bark, said to be the legal property
of one General Washington of America.

The echoes of Revolutionary cannon hardly died away before the eagle-guided Republic began
to follow the star of empire to the Occident.

Had the listless mariners seen that obscured inlet of the Golden Gate, they had never braved
the icy gales of the Oregon coast. Miguel Peralta's broad acres might have had another lord.
Bishop Berkeley's prophecy was infallible. A fatal remissness seemed to characterize all early
foreign adventure on Californian coasts.

Admiral Vancouver in 1793 visited Monterey harbor, and failed to raise the Union Jack, as supinely
as the later British commanders in 1846. French commanders, technically skilful and energetic,
also ignored the value of the western coast. As a result of occasional maritime visits, the
slender knowledge gained by these great navigators appears a remarkable omission.

The night passed on. Breezes sweeping through the pines of Monterey brought no murmur from
the south and east of the thunder crash of cannon on the unfought fields of Mexico.

No drowsy vaquero sentinel, watching the outposts of Monterey, could catch a sound of the rumbling
wheels and tramping feet of that vast western immigration soon to tread wearily the old overland
and the great southern route.

The soldier, nodding over his flint-lock as the white stars dropped into the western blue,
saw no glitter of the sails of hostile Yankee frigates. Soon they would toss in pride at anchor
here, and salute the starry flag of a new sovereignty. The little twinkling star to be added
for California was yet veiled behind the blue field of our country's banner.

Bright sun flashes dancing over the hills awoke the drowsy sacristan. The hallowed "Bells of
Carmel" called the faithful to mass.

Monterey, in reverse order of its social grades, rose yawning from the feast. Fandangos and
bailes of the day of victory tired all. Lazy "mozos" lolled about the streets. A few revellers
idly compared notes of the day's doings.

In front of the government offices, squads of agile horses awaited haughty riders. A merry
cavalcade watched for Captain Miguel Peralta. He was to be escorted out of the Pueblo by the
"jeunesse doree" of Alta California.

Clad in green jackets buttoned with Mexican dollars, riding leggings of tiger-cat skin seamed
with bullion and fringed with dollars, their brown faces were surmounted by rich sombreros,
huge of rim. They were decorated in knightly fashion with silver lace. The young caballeros
awaited their preux chevalier. Saddle and bridle shone with heavy silver mountings. Embossed
housings and "tapadero," hid the symmetry of their deer-like coursers.

Pliant rawhide lassos coiled on saddle horns, gay serapes tied behind each rider, and vicious
machetes girded on thigh, these sons of the West were the pride of the Pacific.

Not one of them would be dismayed at a seven days' ride to Los Angeles. A day's jaunt to a
fandango, a night spent in dancing, a gallop home on the morrow, was child's play to these
young Scythians.

Pleasure-loving, brave, and courteous; hospitable, and fond of their lovely land--they bore
all fatigue in the saddle, yet despised any manual exertion; patricians all, in blood.

So it has been since man conquered the noblest inferior animal. The man on the horse always
rides down and tramples his brother on foot. Life is simply a struggle for the saddle, and
a choice of the rarest mount in the race. To-day these gay riders are shadows of a forgotten past.

Before noon Captain Peralta receives the order of the Governor. It authorizes him to locate
his military grant. General Vallejo, with regret, hands Miguel an order relieving him from
duty. He is named Commandante of the San Joaquin valley, under the slopes of the undefiled Sierras.

Laden with messages, despatches, and precious letters for the ranches on the road to the Golden
Gate, he departs. These are entrusted to the veteran sergeant, major-domo and shadow of his
beloved master. Miguel bounds into the saddle. He gayly salutes the Governor and General with
a graceful sweep of his sombrero. He threads the crowded plaza with adroitness, swaying easily
from side to side as he greets sober friend or demure Donna. He smiles kindly on all the tender-eyed
senoritas who admire the brave soldier, and in their heart of hearts envy Juanita Castro, the
Rose of Alameda.

Alert and courteous, the future bright before him, Peralta gazes on the Mexican flag fluttering
in the breeze. A lump rises in his throat. His long service is over at last. He doffs his sombrero
when the guard "turns out" for him. It is the last honor.

He cannot foresee that a French frigate will soon lie in the very bay smiling at his feet,
and cover the returning foreigner with her batteries.

In two short years, sturdy old Commodore Jones will blunder along with the American liners,
CYANE and UNITED STATES, and haul down that proud Mexican ensign. He will hoist for the first
time, on October, 19, 1842, the stars and stripes over the town. Even though he apologizes,
the foreigners will troop back there like wolves around the dying bison of the west. The pines
on Santa Cruz whisper of a coming day of change. The daybreak of the age of gold draws near.

Steadily through the live-oaks and fragrant cypress the bridegroom rides to the wedding. A
few days' social rejoicings, then away to the beautiful forests of his new ranch. It lies far
in the hills of Mariposa. There, fair as a garden of the Lord, the grassy knolls of the foothills
melt into the golden wild-oat fields of the San Joaquin.

Behind him, to the east, the virgin forest rises to the serrated peaks of the Nevada. He drops
his bridle on his horse's neck. He dreams of a day when he can visit the unknown canons beyond
his new home.

Several Ute chiefs have described giant forests of big trees. They tell of a great gorge of
awful majesty; that far toward the headwaters of the American are sparkling lakes fed by winter
snows.

His escort of young bloods rides behind him. They have had their morning gymnastics, "a cheval,"
to edify the laughing beauties of the baile of last night. The imprisoned rooster, buried to
the neck in soft earth, has been charged on and captured gaily. Races whiled away their waiting
moments.

Then, "adios, senoritas," with heart-pangs in chorus. After a toss of aguardiente, the cigarito
is lit. The beaux ride out for a glimpse of the white cliffs of the Golden Gate. The sleeping
Monterey belles dream yet of yester-even. Nature smiles, a fearless virgin, with open arms.
Each rancho offers hospitality. Money payments are unknown here yet, in such matters.

Down the Santa Clara avenue of great willows these friends ride in the hush of a starry evening.
As the mission shows its lights, musical bells proclaim the vesper service. Their soft echoes
are wafted to the ears of these devotees.

Devoutly the caballeros dismount. They kneel on the tiled floor till the evening service ends.

Miguel's heart sinks while he thinks of the missions. He bows in prayer. Neglected vineyards
and general decay reign over the deserted mission lands.

It is years since Hijar scattered the missions, He paralyzed the work of the Padres. Already
Santa Clara's gardens are wasted. Snarling coyotes prowl to the very walls of the enclosures
left to the Padres.

Priest and acolytes quit the altar. Miguel sadly leaves the church. Over a white stone on the
sward his foot pauses. There rests one of his best friends--Padre Pacheco--passed beyond these
earthly troubles to eternal rest and peace. The mandate of persecution can never drive away
that dead shepherd. He rests with his flock around him.

Hijar seized upon the acres of the Church. He came down like the feudal barons in England.
Ghostly memories cling yet around these old missions.

   "When the lord of the hill, Amundeville,
        Made Norman church his prey,
    And expelled the friars, one friar still
        Would not be driven away."

So here the sacred glebe was held by a faithful sentinel. His gravestone flashed a white protest
against violence. In the struggle between sword and cowl, the first victory is with the sword;
not always the last. Time has its revenges.

Padre Hinojosa, the incumbent, welcomes the Captain. There is cheer for the travellers. Well-crusted
bottles of mission claret await them. The tired riders seek the early repose of primitive communities.

Beside the fire (for the fog sweeps coldly over the Coast Range) the priest and his guest exchange
confidences. Captain Peralta is an official bulletin. The other priest is summoned away to
a dying penitent. The halls of the once crowded residence of the clergy re-echo strangely the
footsteps of the few servants.

By the embers the man of the sword and he of the gown lament these days. They are pregnant
with trouble. The directing influence of the Padres is now absent. Peralta confides to Hinojosa
that jealousy and intrigue will soon breed civil warfare. Micheltorrena is now conspiring against
Alvarado. Peralta seeks a secluded home in the forests of Mariposa. He desires to gain a stronghold
where he can elude both domestic and foreign foes.

"Don Miguel," the padre begins, "in our records we have notes of a Philippine galleon, the
SAN AUGUSTIN, laden with the spoils of the East. She was washed ashore in 1579, tempest tossed
at the Golden Gate. Viscaino found this wreck in 1602. Now I have studied much. I feel that
the Americans will gradually work west, overland, and will rule us. Our brothers destroyed
the missions. They would have Christianized the patient Indians, teaching them industries.
Books tell me even the Apaches were peaceful till the Spanish soldiers attacked them. Now from
their hills they defy the whole Mexican army." The good priest sighed. "Our work is ruined.
I shall lay my bones here, but I see the trade of the East following that lonely wrecked galleon,
and a young people growing up. The Dons will go." Bestowing a blessing on his guest, the padre
sought his breviary. Priest and soldier slept in quiet. To-day the old padre's vision is realized.
The treasures of the East pour into the Golden Gate. His simple heart would have been happy
to know that thousands of Catholics pause reverently at his tomb covered with the roses of
Santa Clara.

Golden lances pierced the haze over the hills, waking the padre betimes next morning. Already
the sacristan was ringing his call.

The caballeros were kneeling when the Indian choir raised the chants. When mass ended, the
"mozos" scoured the potrero, driving in the chargers. Commandante Peralta lingered a half hour
at the priest's house. There, the flowers bloom in a natural tangle.

The quadrangle is deserted; while the soldier lingers, the priest runs over the broken chain
of missions. He recounts the losses of Mother Church---seventeen missions in Lower California,
twenty-one all told in Alta California, with all their riches confiscated. The "pious fund"--monument
of the faithful dead--swept into the Mexican coffers. The struggle of intellect against political
greed looks hopeless.

The friends sadly exchange fears. The bridegroom reminds the priest that shelter will be always
his at the new rancho.

Peralta's plunging roan frets now in the "paseo." After a blessing, the Commandante briskly
pushes over the oak openings, toward the marshes of the bay. His shadow, the old sergeant,
ambles alongside. Pearly mists rise from the bay. Far to the northeast Mount Diablo uplifts
its peaked summit. From the western ridges balsamic odors of redwoods float lightly.

Down by the marshes countless snipe, duck, geese, and curlew tempt the absent sportsman.

The traveller easily overtakes his escort. They have been trying all the arts of the vaquero.
Past hills where startled buck and doe gaze until they gracefully bound into the covert, the
riders pursue the lonely trail. Devoid of talk, they follow the shore, sweeping for six hours
over the hills, toward the Mission Dolores. Another hour brings them to the Presidio.

This fort is the only safeguard of the State; a battery of ship guns is a mere symbol of power.

In the quadrangle two companies of native soldiers and a detachment of artillery constitute
the feeble garrison. Don Miguel Peralta canters up to the Commandante's residence.

Evening parade is over. Listless sentinels drag over their posts with the true military laziness.

Peralta is intent upon affairs both of head and heart. His comrade, the Commandante, sits late
with him in sage counsel. A train follows from Monterey, with stores for the settlement. Sundry
cargoes of gifts for the fair Juanita, which the one Pacific emporium of Monterey alone could
furnish, are moving. Miguel bears an order for a detail of a sergeant and ten men, a nucleus
of a force in the San Joaquin. Barges and a shallop are needed to transport supplies up the
river. By couriers, invitations are to be sent to all the clans not represented at the Monterey
gathering.

The priests of the mission must also be visited and prepared for the wedding. Miguel's heart
softens. He thinks of his bright-eyed Californian bride waiting in her home, soon to be Seftora
Peralta.

In twenty days Don Miguel arranges his inland voyage. While his assistants speed abroad, he
pays visits of ceremony to the clergy and his lovely bride.

