We had picked up shells and looked for sea-horses on the Adriatic shore. Then we returned to
give our boatmen wine beneath the vine-clad pergola. Four other men were there, drinking, and
eating from a dish of fried fish set upon the coarse white linen cloth. Two of them soon rose
and went away. Of the two who stayed, one was a large, middle-aged man; the other was still
young. He was tall and sinewy, but slender, for these Venetians are rarely massive in their
strength. Each limb is equally developed by the exercise of rowing upright, bending all the
muscles to their stroke. Their bodies are elastically supple, with free sway from the hips
and a mercurial poise upon the ankle. Stefano showed these qualities almost in exaggeration.
The type in him was refined to its artistic perfection. Moreover, he was rarely in repose,
but moved with a singular brusque grace. A black broad-brimmed hat was thrown back upon his
matted zazzera of dark hair tipped with dusky brown. This shock of hair, cut in flakes, and
falling wilfully, reminded me of the lagoon grass when it darkens in autumn upon uncovered
shoals, and sunset gilds its sombre edges. Fiery grey eyes beneath it gazed intensely, with
compulsive effluence of electricity. It was the wild glance of a Triton. Short blonde moustache,
dazzling teeth, skin bronzed, but showing white and healthful through open front and sleeves
of lilac shirt. The dashing sparkle of this animate splendour, who looked to me as though the
sea-waves and the sun had made him in some hour of secret and unquiet rapture, was somehow
emphasised by a curious dint dividing his square chin--a cleft that harmonised with smile on
lip and steady flame in eyes. I hardly know what effect it would have upon a reader to compare
eyes to opals. Yet Stefano's eyes, as they met mine, had the vitreous intensity of opals, as
though the colour of Venetian waters were vitalised in them. This noticeable being had a rough,
hoarse voice, which, to develop the parallel with a sea-god, might have screamed in storm or
whispered raucous messages from crests of tossing billows.

I felt, as I looked, that here, for me at least, the mythopoem of the lagoons was humanised;
the spirit of the salt-water lakes had appeared to me; the final touch of life emergent from
nature had been given. I was satisfied; for I had seen a poem.

Then we rose, and wandered through the Jews' cemetery. It is a quiet place, where the flat
grave-stones, inscribed in Hebrew and Italian, lie deep in Lido sand, waved over with wild
grass and poppies. I would fain believe that no neglect, but rather the fashion of this folk,
had left the monuments of generations to be thus resumed by nature. Yet, knowing nothing of
the history of this burial-ground, I dare not affirm so much. There is one outlying piece of
the cemetery which seems to contradict my charitable interpretation. It is not far from San
Nicoletto. No enclosure marks it from the unconsecrated dunes. Acacia-trees sprout amid the
monuments, and break the tablets with their thorny shoots upthrusting from the soil. Where
patriarchs and rabbis sleep for centuries, the fishers of the sea now wander, and defile these
habitations of the dead:

            Corruption most abhorred
    Mingling itself with their renownèd ashes.

Some of the grave-stones have been used to fence the towing-path; and one I saw, well carved
with letters legible of Hebrew on fair Itrian marble, which roofed an open drain leading from
the stable of a Christian dog.

VIII.--A VENETIAN RESTAURANT.

At the end of a long glorious day, unhappy is that mortal whom the Hermes of a cosmopolitan
hotel, white-chokered and white-waistcoated, marshals to the Hades of the table-d'hôte. The
world has often been compared to an inn; but on my way down to this common meal I have, not
unfrequently, felt fain to reverse the simile. From their separate stations, at the appointed
hour, the guests like ghosts flit to a gloomy gas-lit chamber. They are of various speech and
race, preoccupied with divers interests and cares. Necessity and the waiter drive them all
to a sepulchral syssition, whereof the cook too frequently deserves that old Greek comic epithet--+hadou
mageiros+--cook of the Inferno. And just as we are told that in Charon's boat we shall not
be allowed to pick our society, so here we must accept what fellowship the fates provide. An
English spinster retailing paradoxes culled to-day from Ruskin's handbooks; an American citizen
describing his jaunt in a gondola from the railway station; a German shopkeeper descanting
in one breath on Baur's Bock and the beauties of the Marcusplatz; an intelligent æsthete bent
on working into clearness his own views of Carpaccio's genius: all these in turn, or all together,
must be suffered gladly through well-nigh two long hours. Uncomforted in soul we rise from
the expensive banquet; and how often rise from it unfed!

Far other be the doom of my own friends--of pious bards and genial companions, lovers of natural
and lovely things! Nor for these do I desire a seat at Florian's marble tables, or a perch
in Quadri's window, though the former supply dainty food, and the latter command a bird's-eye
view of the Piazza. Rather would I lead them to a certain humble tavern on the Zattere. It
is a quaint, low-built, unpretending little place, near a bridge, with a garden hard by which
sends a cataract of honeysuckles sunward over a too-jealous wall. In front lies a Mediterranean
steamer, which all day long has been discharging cargo. Gazing westward up Giudecca, masts
and funnels bar the sunset and the Paduan hills; and from a little front room of the trattoria
the view is so marine that one keeps fancying oneself in some ship's cabin. Sea-captains sit
and smoke beside their glass of grog in the pavilion and the caffé. But we do not seek their
company at dinner-time. Our way lies under yonder arch, and up the narrow alley into a paved
court. Here are oleanders in pots, and plants of Japanese spindle-wood in tubs; and from the
walls beneath the window hang cages of all sorts of birds--a talking parrot, a whistling blackbird,
goldfinches, canaries, linnets. Athos, the fat dog, who goes to market daily in a barchetta
with his master, snuffs around. "Where are Porthos and Aramis, my friend?" Athos does not take
the joke; he only wags his stump of tail and pokes his nose into my hand. What a Tartufe's
nose it is! Its bridge displays the full parade of leather-bound brass-nailed muzzle. But beneath,
this muzzle is a patent sham. The frame does not even pretend to close on Athos' jaw, and the
wise dog wears it like a decoration. A little farther we meet that ancient grey cat, who has
no discoverable name, but is famous for the sprightliness and grace with which she bears her
eighteen years. Not far from the cat one is sure to find Carlo--the bird-like, bright-faced,
close-cropped Venetian urchin, whose duty it is to trot backwards and forwards between the
cellar and the dining-tables. At the end of the court we walk into the kitchen, where the black-capped
little padrone and the gigantic white-capped chef are in close consultation. Here we have the
privilege of inspecting the larder--fish of various sorts, meat, vegetables, several kinds
of birds, pigeons, tordi, beccafichi, geese, wild ducks, chickens, woodcock, &c ., according
to the season. We select our dinner, and retire to eat it either in the court among the birds
beneath the vines, or in the low dark room which occupies one side of it. Artists of many nationalities
and divers ages frequent this house; and the talk arising from the several little tables, turns
upon points of interest and beauty in the life and landscape of Venice. There can be no difference
of opinion about the excellence of the cuisine, or about the reasonable charges of this trattoria.
A soup of lentils, followed by boiled turbot or fried soles, beef-steak or mutton cutlets,
tordi or beccafichi, with a salad, the whole enlivened with good red wine or Florio's Sicilian
Marsala from the cask, costs about four francs. Gas is unknown in the establishment. There
is no noise, no bustle, no brutality of waiters, no ahurissement of tourists. And when dinner
is done, we can sit awhile over our cigarette and coffee, talking until the night invites us
to a stroll along the Zattere or a giro in the gondola.

IX.--NIGHT IN VENICE.

Night in Venice! Night is nowhere else so wonderful, unless it be winter among the high Alps.
But the nights of Venice and the nights of the mountains are too different in kind to be compared.

There is the ever-recurring miracle of the full moon rising, before day is dead, behind San
Giorgio, spreading a path of gold on the lagoon which black boats traverse with the glow-worm
lamp upon their prow; ascending the cloudless sky and silvering the domes of the Salute; pouring
vitreous sheen upon the red lights of the Piazzetta; flooding the Grand Canal, and lifting
the Rialto higher in ethereal whiteness; piercing but penetrating not the murky labyrinth of
rio linked with rio, through which we wind in light and shadow, to reach once more the level
glories and the luminous expanse of heaven beyond the Misericordia.

This is the melodrama of Venetian moonlight; and if a single impression of the night has to
be retained from one visit to Venice, those are fortunate who chance upon a full moon of fair
weather. Yet I know not whether some quieter and soberer effects are not more thrilling. To-night,
for example, the waning moon will rise late through veils of scirocco. Over the bridges of
San Cristoforo and San Gregorio, through the deserted Calle di Mezzo, my friend and I walk
in darkness, pass the marble basements of the Salute, and push our way along its Riva to the
point of the Dogana. We are out at sea alone, between the Canalozzo and the Giudecca. A moist
wind ruffles the water and cools our forehead. It is so dark that we can only see San Giorgio
by the light reflected on it from the Piazzetta. The same light climbs the Campanile of S.
Mark, and shows the golden angel in mystery of gloom. The only noise that reaches us is a confused
hum from the Piazza. Sitting and musing there, the blackness of the water whispers in our ears
a tale of death. And now we hear a plash of oars and gliding through the darkness comes a single
boat. One man leaps upon the landing-place without a word and disappears. There is another
wrapped in a military cloak asleep. I see his face beneath me, pale and quiet. The barcaruolo
turns the point in silence. From the darkness they came; into the darkness they have gone.
It is only an ordinary incident of coastguard service. But the spirit of the night has made
a poem of it.

Even tempestuous and rainy weather, though melancholy enough, is never sordid here. There is
no noise from carriage traffic in Venice, and the sea-wind preserves the purity and transparency
of the atmosphere. It had been raining all day, but at evening came a partial clearing. I went
down to the Molo, where the large reach of the lagoon was all moon-silvered, and San Giorgio
Maggiore dark against the blueish sky, and Santa Maria della Salute domed with moon-irradiated
pearl, and the wet slabs of the Riva shimmering in moonlight, the whole misty sky, with its
clouds and stellar spaces, drenched in moonlight, nothing but moonlight sensible except the
tawny flare of gas-lamps and the orange lights of gondolas afloat upon the waters. On such
a night the very spirit of Venice is abroad. We feel why she is called Bride of the Sea.

Take yet another night. There had been a representation of Verdi's "Forza del Destino" at the
Teatro Malibran. After midnight we walked homeward through the Merceria, crossed the Piazza,
and dived into the narrow calle which leads to the traghetto of the Salute. It was a warm moist
starless night, and there seemed no air to breathe in those narrow alleys. The gondolier was
half asleep. Eustace called him as we jumped into his boat, and rang our soldi on the gunwale.
Then he arose and turned the ferro round, and stood across towards the Salute. Silently, insensibly,
from the oppression of confinement in the airless streets to the liberty and immensity of the
water and the night we passed. It was but two minutes ere we touched the shore and said good-night,
and went our way and left the ferryman. But in that brief passage he had opened our souls to
everlasting things--the freshness, and the darkness, and the kindness of the brooding, all-enfolding
night above the sea.

THE GONDOLIER'S WEDDING.

The night before the wedding we had a supper-party in my rooms. We were twelve in all. My friend
Eustace brought his gondolier Antonio with fair-haired, dark-eyed wife, and little Attilio,
their eldest child. My own gondolier, Francesco, came with his wife and two children. Then
there was the handsome, languid Luigi, who, in his best clothes, or out of them, is fit for
any drawing-room. Two gondoliers, in dark blue shirts, completed the list of guests, if we
exclude the maid Catina, who came and went about the table, laughing and joining in the songs,
and sitting down at intervals to take her share of wine. The big room looking across the garden
to the Grand Canal had been prepared for supper; and the company were to be received in the
smaller, which has a fine open space in front of it to southwards. But as the guests arrived,
they seemed to find the kitchen and the cooking that was going on quite irresistible. Catina,
it seems, had lost her head with so many cuttlefishes, orai, cakes, and fowls, and cutlets
to reduce to order. There was, therefore, a great bustle below stairs; and I could hear plainly
that all my guests were lending their making, or their marring, hands to the preparation of
the supper. That the company should cook their own food on the way to the dining-room, seemed
a quite novel arrangement, but one that promised well for their contentment with the banquet.
Nobody could be dissatisfied with what was everybody's affair.

When seven o'clock struck, Eustace and I, who had been entertaining the children in their mothers'
absence, heard the sound of steps upon the stairs. The guests arrived, bringing their own risotto
with them. Welcome was short, if hearty. We sat down in carefully appointed order, and fell
into such conversation as the quarter of San Vio and our several interests supplied. From time
to time one of the matrons left the table and descended to the kitchen, when a finishing stroke
was needed for roast pullet or stewed veal. The excuses they made their host for supposed failure
in the dishes, lent a certain grace and comic charm to the commonplace of festivity. The entertainment
was theirs as much as mine; and they all seemed to enjoy what took the form by degrees of curiously
complicated hospitality. I do not think a well-ordered supper at any trattoria, such as at
first suggested itself to my imagination, would have given any of us an equal pleasure or an
equal sense of freedom. The three children had become the guests of the whole party. Little
Attilio, propped upon an air-cushion, which puzzled him exceedingly, ate through his supper
and drank his wine with solid satisfaction, opening the large brown eyes beneath those tufts
of clustering fair hair which promise much beauty for him in his manhood. Francesco's boy,
who is older and begins to know the world, sat with a semi-suppressed grin upon his face, as
though the humour of the situation was not wholly hidden from him. Little Teresa too was happy,
except when her mother, a severe Pomona, with enormous earrings and splendid fazzoletto of
crimson and orange dyes, pounced down upon her for some supposed infraction of good manners--creanza,
as they vividly express it here. Only Luigi looked a trifle bored. But Luigi has been a soldier,
and has now attained the supercilious superiority of young-manhood, which smokes its cigar
of an evening in the piazza and knows the merits of the different cafés.

The great business of the evening began when the eating was over, and the decanters filled
with new wine of Mirano circulated freely. The four best singers of the party drew together;
and the rest prepared themselves to make suggestions, hum tunes, and join with fitful effect
in choruses. Antonio, who is a powerful young fellow, with bronzed cheeks and a perfect tempest
of coal-black hair in flakes upon his forehead, has a most extraordinary soprano--sound as
a bell, strong as a trumpet, well-trained, and true to the least shade in intonation. Piero,
whose rugged Neptunian features, sea-wrinkled, tell of a rough water-life, boasts a bass of
resonant, almost pathetic quality. Francesco has a mezza voce, which might, by a stretch of
politeness, be called baritone. Piero's comrade, whose name concerns us not, has another of
these nondescript voices. They sat together with their glasses and cigars before them, sketching
part-songs in outline, striking the keynote--now higher and now lower--till they saw their
subject well in view. Then they burst into full singing, Antonio leading with a metal note
that thrilled one's ears, but still was musical. Complicated contrapuntal pieces, such as we
should call madrigals, with ever-recurring refrains of "Venezia, gemma Triatica, sposa del
mar," descending probably from ancient days, followed each other in quick succession. Barcaroles,
serenades, love-songs, and invitations to the water were interwoven for relief. One of these
romantic pieces had a beautiful burden, "Dormi, o bella, o fingi di dormir," of which the melody
was fully worthy. But the most successful of all the tunes were two with a sad motive. The
one repeated incessantly "Ohimé! mia madre morì;" the other was a girl's love lament: "Perchè
tradirmi, perchè lasciarmi! prima d'amarmi non eri così!" Even the children joined in these;
and Catina, who took the solo part in the second, was inspired to a great dramatic effort.
All these were purely popular songs. The people of Venice, however, are passionate for operas.
Therefore we had duets and solos from "Ernani," the "Ballo in Maschera," and the "Forza del
Destino," and one comic chorus from "Boccaccio," which seemed to make them wild with pleasure.
To my mind, the best of these more formal pieces was a duet between Attila and Italia from
some opera unknown to me, which Antonio and Piero performed with incomparable spirit. It was
noticeable how, descending to the people, sung by them for love at sea, or on excursions to
the villages round Mestre, these operatic reminiscences had lost something of their theatrical
formality, and assumed instead the serious gravity, the quaint movement, and marked emphasis
which belong to popular music in Northern and Central Italy. An antique character was communicated
even to the recitative of Verdi by slight, almost indefinable, changes of rhythm and accent.
There was no end to the singing. "Siamo appassionati per il canto," frequently repeated, was
proved true by the profusion and variety of songs produced from inexhaustible memories, lightly
tried over, brilliantly performed, rapidly succeeding each other. Nor were gestures wanting--lifted
arms, hands stretched to hands, flashing eyes, hair tossed from the forehead--unconscious and
appropriate action--which showed how the spirit of the music and words alike possessed the
men. One by one the children fell asleep. Little Attilio and Teresa were tucked up beneath
my Scotch shawl at two ends of a great sofa; and not even his father's clarion voice, in the
character of Italia defying Attila to harm "le mie superbe città," could wake the little boy
up. The night wore on. It was past one. Eustace and I had promised to be in the church of the
Gesuati at six next morning. We, therefore, gave the guests a gentle hint, which they as gently
took. With exquisite, because perfectly unaffected, breeding they sank for a few moments into
common conversation, then wrapped the children up, and took their leave. It was an uncomfortable,
warm, wet night of sullen scirocco.

The next day, which was Sunday, Francesco called me at five. There was no visible sunrise that
cheerless damp October morning. Grey dawn stole somehow imperceptibly between the veil of clouds
and leaden waters, as my friend and I, well sheltered by our felze, passed into the Giudecca,
and took our station before the church of the Gesuati. A few women from the neighbouring streets
and courts crossed the bridges in draggled petticoats on their way to first mass. A few men,
shouldering their jackets, lounged along the Zattere, opened the great green doors, and entered.
Then suddenly Antonio cried out that the bridal party was on its way, not as we had expected,
in boats, but on foot. We left our gondola, and fell into the ranks, after shaking hands with
Francesco, who is the elder brother of the bride. There was nothing very noticeable in her
appearance, except her large dark eyes. Otherwise both face and figure were of a common type;
and her bridal dress of sprigged grey silk, large veil and orange blossoms, reduced her to
the level of a bourgeoise. It was much the same with the bridegroom. His features, indeed,
proved him a true Venetian gondolier; for the skin was strained over the cheekbones, and the
muscles of the throat beneath the jaws stood out like cords, and the bright blue eyes were
deep-set beneath a spare brown forehead. But he had provided a complete suit of black for the
occasion, and wore a shirt of worked cambric, which disguised what is really splendid in the
physique of these oarsmen, at once slender and sinewy. Both bride and bridegroom looked uncomfortable
in their clothes. The light that fell upon them in the church was dull and leaden. The ceremony,
which was very hurriedly performed by an unctuous priest, did not appear to impress either
of them. Nobody in the bridal party, crowding together on both sides of the altar, looked as
though the service was of the slightest interest and moment. Indeed, this was hardly to be
wondered at; for the priest, so far as I could understand his gabble, took the larger portion
for read, after muttering the first words of the rubric. A little carven image of an acolyte--a
weird boy who seemed to move by springs, whose hair had all the semblance of painted wood,
and whose complexion was white and red like a clown's--did not make matters more intelligible
by spasmodically clattering responses.

