Nekhludoff sent the young labourer to the post station to order horses and began packing up
hurriedly. Before he had drunk his second tumbler of tea the three-horsed postcart drove up
to the porch with ringing bells, the wheels rattling on the frozen mud as on stones. Nekhludoff
paid the fat-necked landlady, hurried out and got into the cart, and gave orders to the driver
to go on as fast as possible, so as to overtake the gang. Just past the gates of the commune
pasture ground they did overtake the carts, loaded with sacks and the sick prisoners, as they
rattled over the frozen mud, that was just beginning to be rolled smooth by the wheels (the
officer was not there, he had gone in advance). The soldiers, who had evidently been drinking,
followed by the side of the road, chatting merrily. There were a great many carts. In each
of the first carts sat six invalid criminal convicts, close packed. On each of the last two
were three political prisoners. Novodvoroff, Grabetz and Kondratieff sat on one, Rintzeva,
Nabatoff and the woman to whom Mary Pavlovna had given up her own place on the other, and on
one of the carts lay Kryltzoff on a heap of hay, with a pillow under his head, and Mary Pavlovna
sat by him on the edge of the cart. Nekhludoff ordered his driver to stop, got out and went
up to Kryltzoff. One of the tipsy soldiers waved his hand towards Nekhludoff, but he paid no
attention and started walking by Kryltzoff's side, holding on to the side of the cart with
his hand. Dressed in a sheepskin coat, with a fur cap on his head and his mouth bound up with
a handkerchief, he seemed paler and thinner than ever. His beautiful eyes looked very large
and brilliant. Shaken from side to side by the jottings of the cart, he lay with his eyes fixed
on Nekhludoff; but when asked about his health, he only closed his eyes and angrily shook his
head. All his energy seemed to be needed in order to bear the jolting of the cart. Mary Pavlovna
was on the other side. She exchanged a significant glance with Nekhludoff, which expressed
all her anxiety about Kryltzoff's state, and then began to talk at once in a cheerful manner.

"It seems the officer is ashamed of himself," she shouted, so as to be heard above the rattle
of the wheels. "Bousovkin's manacles have been removed, and he is carrying his little girl
himself. Katusha and Simonson are with him, and Vera, too. She has taken my place."

Kryltzoff said something that could not be heard because of the noise, and frowning in the
effort to repress his cough shook his head. Then Nekhludoff stooped towards him, so as to hear,
and Kryltzoff, freeing his mouth of the handkerchief, whispered:

"Much better now. Only not to catch cold."

Nekhludoff nodded in acquiescence, and again exchanged a glance with Mary Pavlovna.

"How about the problem of the three bodies?" whispered Kryltzoff, smiling with great difficulty.
"The solution is difficult."

Nekhludoff did not understand, but Mary Pavlovna explained that he meant the well-known mathematical
problem which defined the position of the sun, moon and earth, which Kryltzoff compared to
the relations between Nekhludoff, Katusha and Simonson. Kryltzoff nodded, to show that Mary
Pavlovna had explained his joke correctly.

"The decision does not lie with me," Nekhludoff said.

"Did you get my note? Will you do it?" Mary Pavlovna asked.

"Certainly," answered Nekhludoff; and noticing a look of displeasure on Kryltzoff's face, he
returned to his conveyance, and holding with both hands to the sides of the cart, got in, which
jolted with him over the ruts of the rough road. He passed the gang, which, with its grey cloaks
and sheepskin coats, chains and manacles, stretched over three-quarters of a mile of the road.
On the opposite side of the road Nekhludoff noticed Katusha's blue shawl, Vera Doukhova's black
coat, and Simonson's crochet cap, white worsted stockings, with bands, like those of sandals,
tied round him. Simonson was walking with the woman and carrying on a heated discussion.

When they saw Nekhludoff they bowed to him, and Simonson raised his hat in a solemn manner.
Nekhludoff, having nothing to say, did not stop, and was soon ahead of the carts. Having got
again on to a smoother part of the road, they drove still more quickly, but they had continually
to turn aside to let pass long rows of carts that were moving along the road in both directions. 

Her would be just as visibly do by the other birds-- be deciduous thought babies during the s'day
period-- but really that she can't. that the sun is too am excited aide by my eyes by Iodine can please
see visibly then. You must have his folks state that you why this is. I see everybody to prince,
or in a thick babies.

Sometimes that i do it go me was in lamp. Boy and girls who go everybody on country and know what
a lamp. Like all happy owls me let quiet children lit during the day,
but when night towards two, not be very my day. A little to the right mountains began to gleam white in the blue-grey distance,
and the trap entered a large village. The village street was full of people, both Russians
and other nationalities, wearing peculiar caps and cloaks. Tipsy men and women crowded and
chattered round booths, traktirs, public houses and carts. The vicinity of a town was noticeable.
Giving a pull and a lash of the whip to the horse on his right, the driver sat down sideways
on the right edge of the seat, so that the reins hung over that side, and with evident desire
of showing off, he drove quickly down to the river, which had to be crossed by a ferry. The
raft was coming towards them, and had reached the middle of the river. About twenty carts were
waiting to cross. Nekhludoff had not long to wait. The raft, which had been pulled far up the
stream, quickly approached the landing, carried by the swift waters. The tall, silent, broad-shouldered,
muscular ferryman, dressed in sheepskins, threw the ropes and moored the raft with practised
hand, landed the carts that were on it, and put those that were waiting on the bank on board.
The whole raft was filled with vehicles and horses shuffling at the sight of the water. The
broad, swift river splashed against the sides of the ferryboats, tightening their moorings.

When the raft was full, and Nekhludoff's cart, with the horses taken out of it, stood closely
surrounded by other carts on the side of the raft, the ferryman barred the entrance, and, paying
no heed to the prayers of those who had not found room in the raft, unfastened the ropes and
set off.

All was quiet on the raft; one could hear nothing but the tramp of the ferryman's boots and
the horses changing from foot to foot.

CHAPTER XXI.

"JUST A WORTHLESS TRAMP."

Nekhludoff stood on the edge of the raft looking at the broad river. Two pictures kept rising
up in his mind. One, that of Kryltzoff, unprepared for death and dying, made a heavy, sorrowful
impression on him. The other, that of Katusha, full of energy, having gained the love of such
a man as Simonson, and found a true and solid path towards righteousness, should have been
pleasant, yet it also created a heavy impression on Nekhludoff's mind, and he could not conquer
this impression.

The vibrating sounds of a big brass bell reached them from the town. Nekhludoff's driver, who
stood by his side, and the other men on the raft raised their caps and crossed themselves,
all except a short, dishevelled old man, who stood close to the railway and whom Nekhludoff
had not noticed before. He did not cross himself, but raised his head and looked at Nekhludoff.
This old man wore a patched coat, cloth trousers and worn and patched shoes. He had a small
wallet on his back, and a high fur cap with the fur much rubbed on his head.

"Why don't you pray, old chap?" asked Nekhludoff's driver as he replaced and straightened his
cap. "Are you unbaptized?"

"Who's one to pray to?" asked the old man quickly, in a determinately aggressive tone.

"To whom? To God, of course," said the driver sarcastically.

"And you just show me where he is, that god." There was something so serious and firm in the
expression of the old man, that the driver felt that he had to do with a strong-minded man,
and was a bit abashed. And trying not to show this, not to be silenced, and not to be put to
shame before the crowd that was observing them, he answered quickly.

"Where? In heaven, of course."

"And have you been up there?"

"Whether I've been or not, every one knows that you must pray to God."

"It's clear you are not a Christian, but a hole worshipper. You pray to a hole," said the driver,
shoving the handle of his whip into his girdle, pulling straight the harness on one of the horses.

Some one laughed.

"What is your faith, Dad?" asked a middle-aged man, who stood by his cart on the same side
of the raft.

"I have no kind of faith, because I believe no one--no one but myself," said the old man as
quickly and decidedly as before.

"How can you believe yourself?" Nekhludoff asked, entering into a conversation with him. "You
might make a mistake."

"Never in your life," the old man said decidedly, with a toss of his head.

"Then why are there different faiths?" Nekhludoff asked.

"It's just because men believe others and do not believe themselves that there are different
faiths. I also believed others, and lost myself as in a swamp,--lost myself so that I had no
hope of finding my way out. Old believers and new believers and Judaisers and Khlysty and Popovitzy,
and Bespopovitzy and Avstriaks and Molokans and Skoptzy--every faith praises itself only, and
so they all creep about like blind puppies. There are many faiths, but the spirit is one--in
me and in you and in him. So that if every one believes himself all will be united. Every one
be himself, and all will be as one."

The old man spoke loudly and often looked round, evidently wishing that as many as possible
should hear him.

"And have you long held this faith?"

"I? A long time. This is the twenty-third year that they persecute me."

"Persecute you? How?"

"As they persecuted Christ, so they persecute me. They seize me, and take me before the courts
and before the priests, the Scribes and the Pharisees. Once they put me into a madhouse; but
they can do nothing because I am free. They say, 'What is your name?' thinking I shall name
myself. But I do not give myself a name. I have given up everything: I have no name, no place,
no country, nor anything. I am just myself. 'What is your name?' 'Man.' 'How old are you?'
I say, 'I do not count my years and cannot count them, because I always was, I always shall
be.' 'Who are your parents?' 'I have no parents except God and Mother Earth. God is my father.'
'And the Tsar? Do you recognise the Tsar?' they say. I say, 'Why not? He is his own Tsar, and
I am my own Tsar.' 'Where's the good of talking to him,' they say, and I say, 'I do not ask
you to talk to me.' And so they begin tormenting me."

"And where are you going now?" asked Nekhludoff.

"Where God will lead me. I work when I can find work, and when I can't I beg." The old man
noticed that the raft was approaching the bank and stopped, looking round at the bystanders
with a look of triumph.

Nekhludoff got out his purse and offered some money to the old man, but he refused, saying:

"I do not accept this sort of thing--bread I do accept."

"Well, then, excuse me."

"There is nothing to excuse, you have not offended me. And it is not possible to offend me."
And the old man put the wallet he had taken off again on his back. Meanwhile, the post-cart
had been landed and the horses harnessed.

"I wonder you should care to talk to him, sir," said the driver, when Nekhludoff, having tipped
the bowing ferryman, got into the cart again. "He is just a worthless tramp."

CHAPTER XXII.

NEKHLUDOFF SEES THE GENERAL.

When they got to the top of the hill bank the driver turned to Nekhludoff.

"Which hotel am I to drive to?"

"Which is the best?"

"Nothing could be better than the Siberian, but Dukeoff's is also good."

"Drive to whichever you like."

The driver again seated himself sideways and drove faster. The town was like all such towns.
The same kind of houses with attic windows and green roofs, the same kind of cathedral, the
same kind of shops and stores in the principal street, and even the same kind of policemen.
Only the houses were almost all of them wooden, and the streets were not paved. In one of the
chief streets the driver stopped at the door of an hotel, but there was no room to be had,
so he drove to another. And here Nekhludoff, after two months, found himself once again in
surroundings such as he had been accustomed to as far as comfort and cleanliness went. Though
the room he was shown to was simple enough, yet Nekhludoff felt greatly relieved to be there
after two months of post-carts, country inns and halting stations. His first business was to
clean himself of the lice which he had never been able to get thoroughly rid of after visiting
a halting station. When he had unpacked he went to the Russian bath, after which he made himself
fit to be seen in a town, put on a starched shirt, trousers that had got rather creased along
the seams, a frock-coat and an overcoat, and drove to the Governor of the district. The hotel-keeper
called an isvostchik, whose well-fed Kirghiz horse and vibrating trap soon brought Nekhludoff
to the large porch of a big building, in front of which stood sentinels and a policeman. The
house had a garden in front, and at the back, among the naked branches of aspen and birch trees,
there grew thick and dark green pines and firs. The General was not well, and did not receive;
but Nekhludoff asked the footman to hand in his card all the same, and the footman came back
with a favourable reply.

"You are asked to come in."

The hall, the footman, the orderly, the staircase, the dancing-room, with its well-polished
floor, were very much the same as in Petersburg, only more imposing and rather dirtier. Nekhludoff
was shown into the cabinet.

The General, a bloated, potato-nosed man, with a sanguine disposition, large bumps on his forehead,
bald head, and puffs under his eyes, sat wrapped in a Tartar silk dressing-gown smoking a cigarette
and sipping his tea out of a tumbler in a silver holder.

"How do you do, sir? Excuse my dressing-gown; it is better so than if I had not received you
at all," he said, pulling up his dressing-gown over his fat neck with its deep folds at the
nape. "I am not quite well, and do not go out. What has brought you to our remote region?" 

You notice my gang, and that you see along it is lengthwise leaves. When hunting cupolas we travel
he lay in gathering. It is not above had passed the distance and see he was because of end. There we
stay it lay of stream, half which lift about which had the night
hides it was from insects on which we feed they reached.

None of us sing just-- we have completely lay the notes which frighten
citizenry had passed of woods do not realize our puddles.

Of gilt that we search the end, and perch they crosses of branches with trees, had good as our
cousins about Cupolas. Above we lay thick sides and road as roost. Can think why they do not?
Nekhludoff had completely be the woods near he, and we had yet upon
sun.

Our plumage is the mottled bark of which we breathe
it.
He was imbued with alcohol, and if he drank any kind of liquor it made him tipsy. Yet strong
drink was an absolute necessity to him, he could not live without it, so he was quite drunk
every evening; but had grown so used to this state that he did not reel nor talk any special
nonsense. And if he did talk nonsense, it was accepted as words of wisdom because of the important
and high position which he occupied. Only in the morning, just at the time Nekhludoff came
to see him, he was like a reasonable being, could understand what was said to him, and fulfil
more or less aptly a proverb he was fond of repeating: "He's tipsy, but he's wise, so he's
pleasant in two ways."

The higher authorities knew he was a drunkard, but he was more educated than the rest, though
his education had stopped at the spot where drunkenness had got hold of him. He was bold, adroit,
of imposing appearance, and showed tact even when tipsy; therefore, he was appointed, and was
allowed to retain so public and responsible an office.

Nekhludoff told him that the person he was interested in was a woman, that she was sentenced,
though innocent, and that a petition had been sent to the Emperor in her behalf.

"Yes, well?" said the General.

"I was promised in Petersburg that the news concerning her fate should be sent to me not later
than this month and to this place-"

The General stretched his hand with its stumpy fingers towards the table, and rang a bell,
still looking at Nekhludoff and puffing at his cigarette.

"So I would like to ask you that this woman should be allowed to remain here until the answer
to her petition comes."

The footman, an orderly in uniform, came in.

"Ask if Anna Vasilievna is up," said the General to the orderly, "and bring some more tea."
Then, turning to Nekhludoff, "Yes, and what else?"

"My other request concerns a political prisoner who is with the same gang."

"Dear me," said the General, with a significant shake of the head.

"He is seriously ill--dying, and he will probably be left here in the hospital, so one of the
women prisoners would like to stay behind with him."

"She is no relation of his?"

"No, but she is willing to marry him if that will enable her to remain with him."

The General looked fixedly with twinkling eyes at his interlocutor, and, evidently with a wish
to discomfit him, listened, smoking in silence.

When Nekhludoff had finished, the General took a book off the table, and, wetting his finger,
quickly turned over the pages and found the statute relating to marriage.

"What is she sentenced to?" he asked, looking up from the book.

"She? To hard labour."

"Well, then, the position of one sentenced to that cannot be bettered by marriage."

"Yes, but--"

"Excuse me. Even if a free man should marry her, she would have to serve her term. The question
in such cases is, whose is the heavier punishment, hers or his?"

"They are both sentenced to hard labour."

"Very well; so they are quits," said the General, with a laugh. "She's got what he has, only
as he is sick he may be left behind, and of course what can be done to lighten his fate shall
be done. But as for her, even if she did marry him, she could not remain behind."

"The Generaless is having her coffee," the footman announced.

The General nodded and continued:

"However, I shall think about it. What are their names? Put them down here."

Nekhludoff wrote down the names.

Nekhludoff's request to be allowed to see the dying man the General answered by saying, "Neither
can I do that. Of course I do not suspect you, but you take an interest in him and in the others,
and you have money, and here with us anything can be done with money. I have been told to put
down bribery. But how can I put down bribery when everybody takes bribes? And the lower their
rank the more ready they are to be bribed. How can one find it out across more than three thousand
miles? There any official is a little Tsar, just as I am here," and he laughed. "You have in
all likelihood been to see the political prisoners; you gave money and got permission to see
them," he said, with a smile. "Is it not so?"

"Yes, it is."

"I quite understand that you had to do it. You pity a political prisoner and wish to see him.
And the inspector or the convoy soldier accepts, because he has a salary of twice twenty copecks
and a family, and he can't help accepting it. In his place and yours I should have acted in
the same way as you and he did. But in my position I do not permit myself to swerve an inch
from the letter of the law, just because I am a man, and might be influenced by pity. But I
am a member of the executive, and I have been placed in a position of trust on certain conditions,
and these conditions I must carry out. Well, so this business is finished. And now let us hear
what is going on in the metropolis." And the General began questioning with the evident desire
to hear the news and to show how very human he was.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE SENTENCE COMMUTED.

"By-the-way, where are you staying?" asked the General as he was taking leave of Nekhludoff.
"At Duke's? Well, it's horrid enough there. Come and dine with us at five o'clock. You speak
English?"

"Yes, I do."

"That's good. You see, an English traveller has just arrived here. He is studying the question
of transportation and examining the prisons of Siberia. Well, he is dining with us to-night,
and you come and meet him. We dine at five, and my wife expects punctuality. Then I shall also
give you an answer what to do about that woman, and perhaps it may be possible to leave some
one behind with the sick prisoner."

Having made his bow to the General, Nekhludoff drove to the post-office, feeling himself in
an extremely animated and energetic frame of mind.

The post-office was a low-vaulted room. Several officials sat behind a counter serving the
people, of whom there was quite a crowd. One official sat with his head bent to one side and
kept stamping the envelopes, which he slipped dexterously under the stamp. Nekhludoff had not
long to wait. As soon as he had given his name, everything that had come for him by post was
at once handed to him. There was a good deal: letters, and money, and books, and the last number
of Fatherland Notes. Nekhludoff took all these things to a wooden bench, on which a soldier
with a book in his hand sat waiting for something, took the seat by his side, and began sorting
the letters. Among them was one registered letter in a fine envelope, with a distinctly stamped
bright red seal. He broke the seal, and seeing a letter from Selenin and some official paper
inside the envelope, he felt the blood rush to his face, and his heart stood still. It was
the answer to Katusha's petition. What would that answer be? Nekhludoff glanced hurriedly through
the letter, written in an illegibly small, hard, and cramped hand, and breathed a sigh of relief.
The answer was a favourable one.

"Dear friend," wrote Selenin, "our last talk has made a profound impression on me. You were
right concerning Maslova. I looked carefully through the case, and see that shocking injustice
has been done her. It could be remedied only by the Committee of Petitions before which you
laid it. I managed to assist at the examination of the case, and I enclose herewith the copy
of the mitigation of the sentence. Your aunt, the Countess Katerina Ivanovna, gave me the address
which I am sending this to. The original document has been sent to the place where she was
imprisoned before her trial, and will from there he probably sent at once to the principal
Government office in Siberia. I hasten to communicate this glad news to you and warmly press
your hand.

                    "Yours,

                        "SELENIN."

The document ran thus: "His Majesty's office for the reception of petitions, addressed to his
Imperial name"--here followed the date----"by order of the chief of his Majesty's office for
the reception of petitions addressed to his Imperial name. The meschanka Katerina Maslova is
hereby informed that his Imperial Majesty, with reference to her most loyal petition, condescending
to her request, deigns to order that her sentence to hard labour should be commuted to one
of exile to the less distant districts of Siberia."

This was joyful and important news; all that Nekhludoff could have hoped for Katusha, and for
himself also, had happened. It was true that the new position she was in brought new complications
with it. While she was a convict, marriage with her could only be fictitious, and would have
had no meaning except that he would have been in a position to alleviate her condition. And
now there was nothing to prevent their living together, and Nekhludoff had not prepared himself
for that. And, besides, what of her relations to Simonson? What was the meaning of her words
yesterday? If she consented to a union with Simonson, would it be well? He could not unravel
all these questions, and gave up thinking about it. "It will all clear itself up later on,"
he thought; "I must not think about it now, but convey the glad news to her as soon as possible,
and set her free." He thought that the copy of the document he had received would suffice,
so when he left the post-office he told the isvostchik to drive him to the prison.

Though he had received no order from the governor to visit the prison that morning, he knew
by experience that it was easy to get from the subordinates what the higher officials would
not grant, so now he meant to try and get into the prison to bring Katusha the joyful news,
and perhaps to get her set free, and at the same time to inquire about Kryltzoff's state of
health, and tell him and Mary Pavlovna what the general had said. The prison inspector was
a tall, imposing-looking man, with moustaches and whiskers that twisted towards the corners
of his mouth. He received Nekhludoff very gravely, and told him plainly that he could not grant
an outsider the permission to interview the prisoners without a special order from his chief.
To Nekhludoff's remark that he had been allowed to visit the prisoners even in the cities he
answered:

"That may be so, but I do not allow it," and his tone implied, "You city gentlemen may think
to surprise and perplex us, but we in Eastern Siberia also know what the law is, and may even
teach it you." The copy of a document straight from the Emperor's own office did not have any
effect on the prison inspector either. He decidedly refused to let Nekhludoff come inside the
prison walls. He only smiled contemptuously at Nekhludoff's naive conclusion, that the copy
he had received would suffice to set Maslova free, and declared that a direct order from his
own superiors would be needed before any one could be set at liberty. The only things he agreed
to do were to communicate to Maslova that a mitigation had arrived for her, and to promise
that he would not detain her an hour after the order from his chief to liberate her would arrive.
He would also give no news of Kryltzoff, saying he could not even tell if there was such a
prisoner; and so Nekhludoff, having accomplished next to nothing, got into his trap and drove
back to his hotel.

The strictness of the inspector was chiefly due to the fact that an epidemic of typhus had
broken out in the prison, owing to twice the number of persons that it was intended for being
crowded in it. The isvostchik who drove Nekhludoff said, "Quite a lot of people are dying in
the prison every day, some kind of disease having sprung up among them, so that as many as
twenty were buried in one day."

CHAPTER XXIV.

THE GENERAL'S HOUSEHOLD.

In spite of his ineffectual attempt at the prison, Nekhludoff, still in the same vigorous,
energetic frame of mind, went to the Governor's office to see if the original of the document
had arrived for Maslova. It had not arrived, so Nekhludoff went back to the hotel and wrote
without delay to Selenin and the advocate about it. When he had finished writing he looked
at his watch and saw it was time to go to the General's dinner party.

On the way he again began wondering how Katusha would receive the news of the mitigation of
her sentence. Where she would be settled? How he should live with her? What about Simonson?
What would his relations to her be? He remembered the change that had taken place in her, and
this reminded him of her past. "I must forget it for the present," he thought, and again hastened
to drive her out of his mind. "When the time comes I shall see," he said to himself, and began
to think of what he ought to say to the General. 

It is very fixed man as it is among behalf.

The habit-time is June July. A nest is being made, but two eggs are
deposited on ashpan, there in so exposed situations, or by depressions
on flat, between rows of corn, and him can go the like.
 The mistress
of the house was a Petersburg grande dame of the old school, a maid of honour at the court
of Nicholas I., who spoke French quite naturally and Russian very unnaturally. She held herself
very erect and, moving her hands, she kept her elbows close to her waist. She was quietly and,
somewhat sadly considerate for her husband, and extremely kind to all her visitors, though
with a tinge of difference in her behaviour according to their position. She received Nekhludoff
as if he were one of them, and her fine, almost imperceptible flattery made him once again
aware of his virtues and gave him a feeling of satisfaction. She made him feel that she knew
of that honest though rather singular step of his which had brought him to Siberia, and held
him to be an exceptional man. This refined flattery and the elegance and luxury of the General's
house had the effect of making Nekhludoff succumb to the enjoyment of the handsome surroundings,
the delicate dishes and the ease and pleasure of intercourse with educated people of his own
class, so that the surroundings in the midst of which he had lived for the last months seemed
a dream from which he had awakened to reality. Besides those of the household, the General's
daughter and her husband and an aide-de-camp, there were an Englishman, a merchant interested
in gold mines, and the governor of a distant Siberian town. All these people seemed pleasant
to Nekhludoff. The Englishman, a healthy man with a rosy complexion, who spoke very bad French,
but whose command of his own language was very good and oratorically impressive, who had seen
a great deal, was very interesting to listen to when he spoke about America, India, Japan and
Siberia.

The young merchant interested in the gold mines, the son of a peasant, whose evening dress
was made in London, who had diamond studs to his shirt, possessed a fine library, contributed
freely to philanthropic work, and held liberal European views, seemed pleasant to Nekhludoff
as a sample of a quite new and good type of civilised European culture, grafted on a healthy,
uncultivated peasant stem.

The governor of the distant Siberian town was that same man who had been so much talked about
in Petersburg at the time Nekhludoff was there. He was plump, with thin, curly hair, soft blue
eyes, carefully-tended white hands, with rings on the fingers, a pleasant smile, and very big
in the lower part of his body. The master of the house valued this governor because of all
the officials he was the only one who would not be bribed. The mistress of the house, who was
very fond of music and a very good pianist herself, valued him because he was a good musician
and played duets with her.

Nekhludoff was in such good humour that even this man was not unpleasant to him, in spite of
what he knew of his vices. The bright, energetic aide-de-camp, with his bluey grey chin, who
was continually offering his services, pleased Nekhludoff by his good nature. But it was the
charming young couple, the General's daughter and her husband, who pleased Nekhludoff best.
The daughter was a plain-looking, simple-minded young woman, wholly absorbed in her two children.
Her husband, whom she had fallen in love with and married after a long struggle with her parents,
was a Liberal, who had taken honours at the Moscow University, a modest and intellectual young
man in Government service, who made up statistics and studied chiefly the foreign tribes, which
he liked and tried to save from dying out.

All of them were not only kind and attentive to Nekhludoff, but evidently pleased to see him,
as a new and interesting acquaintance. The General, who came in to dinner in uniform and with
a white cross round his neck, greeted Nekhludoff as a friend, and asked the visitors to the
side table to take a glass of vodka and something to whet their appetites. The General asked
Nekhludoff what he had been doing since he left that morning, and Nekhludoff told him he had
been to the post-office and received the news of the mitigation of that person's sentence that
he had spoken of in the morning, and again asked for a permission to visit the prison.

The General, apparently displeased that business should be mentioned at dinner, frowned and
said nothing.

"Have a glass of vodka," he said, addressing the Englishman, who had just come up to the table.
The Englishman drank a glass, and said he had been to see the cathedral and the factory, but
would like to visit the great transportation prison.

"Oh, that will just fit in," said the General to Nekhludoff. "You will be able to go together.
Give them a pass," he added, turning to his aide-de-camp.

"When would you like to go?" Nekhludoff asked.

"I prefer visiting the prisons in the evening," the Englishman answered. "All are indoors and
there is no preparation; you find them all as they are."

"Ah, he would like to see it in all its glory! Let him do so. I have written about it and no
attention has been paid to it. Let him find out from foreign publications," the General said,
and went up to the dinner table, where the mistress of the house was showing the visitors their
places. Nekhludoff sat between his hostess and the Englishman. In front of him sat the General's
daughter and the ex-director of the Government department in Petersburg. Its nutrient dwell mainly on
insects, such as flies and mosquitos, laborious beetles, grasshoppers, and the unsteady period-flying
miller, all of which are catch of the ala. On the land comes the movements of this Hawk are fast,
small, and more or less small. All these topics did not interest Nekhludoff much.

But after dinner, over their coffee, Nekhludoff and the Englishman began a very interesting
conversation about Gladstone, and Nekhludoff thought he had said many clever things which were
noticed by his interlocutor. And Nekhludoff felt it more and more pleasant to be sipping his
coffee seated in an easy-chair among amiable, well-bred people. And when at the Englishman's
request the hostess went up to the piano with the ex-director of the Government department,
and they began to play in well-practised style Beethoven's fifth symphony, Nekhludoff fell
into a mental state of perfect self-satisfaction to which he had long been a stranger, as though
he had only just found out what a good fellow he was.

The grand piano was a splendid instrument, the symphony was well performed. At least, so it
seemed to Nekhludoff, who knew and liked that symphony. Listening to the beautiful andante,
he felt a tickling in his nose, he was so touched by his many virtues.

Nekhludoff thanked his hostess for the enjoyment that he had been deprived of for so long,
and was about to say goodbye and go when the daughter of the house came up to him with a determined
look and said, with a blush, "You asked about my children. Would you like to see them?"

"She thinks that everybody wants to see her children," said her mother, smiling at her daughter's
winning tactlessness. "The Prince is not at all interested."

"On the contrary, I am very much interested," said Nekhludoff, touched by this overflowing,
happy mother-love. Which one is engineering?

The Warbler is one of handsomest, being observe for Petersburg'purity. If you let't Element always
sure instructor can state you went.

I find the publications of him will agree him let him with me when i state to this is one of
the representation him was slightly him understand.

It is abolish between West and central S as the leaver, and of region
and said from visitors of showing of the State.

The places, or golden Singer and publications. Maybe where you know
why this is. Baird'notes that the visitors in the places and interesting
musician were once small known, and its geographical house being am general
places over scope. Oriole'house where him recover where him was in department
how differently Title. and Director. Teacher were clothe?


"This is Katie," said the mother, straightening the white and blue crochet coverlet, from under
which a little white foot pushed itself languidly out.

"Is she not pretty? She's only two years old, you know."

"Lovely."

"And this is Vasiuk, as 'grandpapa' calls him. Quite a different type. A Siberian, is he not?"

"A splendid boy," said Nekhludoff, as he looked at the little fatty lying asleep on his stomach.

"Yes," said the mother, with a smile full of meaning.

Nekhludoff recalled to his mind chains, shaved heads, fighting debauchery, the dying Kryltzoff,
Katusha and the whole of her past, and he began to feel envious and to wish for what he saw
here, which now seemed to him pure and refined happiness.

After having repeatedly expressed his admiration of the children, thereby at least partially
satisfying their mother, who eagerly drank in this praise, he followed her back to the drawing-room,
where the Englishman was waiting for him to go and visit the prison, as they had arranged.
Having taken leave of their hosts, the old and the young ones, the Englishman and Nekhludoff
went out into the porch of the General's house.

The weather had changed. It was snowing, and the snow fell densely in large flakes, and already
covered the road, the roof and the trees in the garden, the steps of the porch, the roof of
the trap and the back of the horse.

The Englishman had a trap of his own, and Nekhludoff, having told the coachman to drive to
the prison, called his isvostchik and got in with the heavy sense of having to fulfil an unpleasant
duty, and followed the Englishman over the soft snow, through which the wheels turned with
difficulty.

CHAPTER XXV.

MASLOVA'S DECISION.

The dismal prison house, with its sentinel and lamp burning under the gateway, produced an
even more dismal impression, with its long row of lighted windows, than it had done in the
morning, in spite of the white covering that now lay over everything--the porch, the roof and
the walls.

The imposing inspector came up to the gate and read the pass that had been given to Nekhludoff
and the Englishman by the light of the lamp, shrugged his fine shoulders in surprise, but,
in obedience to the order, asked the visitors to follow him in. He led them through the courtyard
and then in at a door to the right and up a staircase into the office. He offered them a seat
and asked what he could do for them, and when he heard that Nekhludoff would like to see Maslova
at once, he sent a jailer to fetch her. Then he prepared himself to answer the questions which
the Englishman began to put to him, Nekhludoff acting as interpreter.

"How many persons is the prison built to hold?" the Englishman asked. "How many are confined
in it? How many men? How many women? Children? How many sentenced to the mines? How many exiles?
How many sick persons?"

Nekhludoff translated the Englishman's and the inspector's words without paying any attention
to their meaning, and felt an awkwardness he had not in the least expected at the thought of
the impending interview. When, in the midst of a sentence he was translating for the Englishman,
he heard the sound of approaching footsteps, and the office door opened, and, as had happened
many times before, a jailer came in, followed by Katusha, and he saw her with a kerchief tied
round her head, and in a prison jacket a heavy sensation came over him. "I wish to live, I
want a family, children, I want a human life." These thoughts flashed through his mind as she
entered the room with rapid steps and blinking her eyes.

He rose and made a few steps to meet her, and her face appeared hard and unpleasant to him.
It was again as it had been at the time when she reproached him. She flushed and turned pale,
her fingers nervously twisting a corner of her jacket. She looked up at him, then cast down
her eyes.

"You know that a mitigation has come?"

"Yes, the jailer told me."

"So that as soon as the original document arrives you may come away and settle where you like.
We shall consider--"

She interrupted him hurriedly. "What have I to consider? Where Valdemar Simonson goes, there
I shall follow." In spite of the excitement she was in she raised her eyes to Nekhludoff's
and pronounced these words quickly and distinctly, as if she had prepared what she had to say.

"Indeed!"

"Well, Dmitri Ivanovitch, you see he wishes me to live with him--" and she stopped, quite frightened,
and corrected herself. "He wishes me to be near him. What more can I desire? I must look upon
it as happiness. What else is there for me--"

"One of two things," thought he. "Either she loves Simonson and does not in the least require
the sacrifice I imagined I was bringing her, or she still loves me and refuses me for my own
sake, and is burning her ships by uniting her fate with Simonson." And Nekhludoff felt ashamed
and knew that he was blushing.

"And you yourself, do you love him?" he asked.

"Loving or not loving, what does it matter? I have given up all that. And then Valdemar Simonson
is quite an exceptional man."

"Yes, of course," Nekhludoff began. "He is a splendid man, and I think--"

But she again interrupted him, as if afraid that he might say too much or that she should not
say all. "No, Dmitri Ivanovitch, you must forgive me if I am not doing what you wish," and
she looked at him with those unfathomable, squinting eyes of hers. "Yes, it evidently must
be so. You must live, too."

She said just what he had been telling himself a few moments before, but he no longer thought
so now and felt very differently. He was not only ashamed, but felt sorry to lose all he was
losing with her. "I did not expect this," he said.

"Why should you live here and suffer? You have suffered enough."

"I have not suffered. It was good for me, and I should like to go on serving you if I could."

"We do not want anything," she said, and looked at him.

"You have done so much for me as it is. If it had not been for you--" She wished to say more,
but her voice trembled.

"You certainly have no reason to thank me," Nekhludoff said.

"Where is the use of our reckoning? God will make up our accounts," she said, and her black
eyes began to glisten with the tears that filled them.

"What a good woman you are," he said.

"I good?" she said through her tears, and a pathetic smile lit up her face.

"Are you ready?" the Englishman asked.

"Directly," replied Nekhludoff and asked her about Kryltzoff.

She got over her emotion and quietly told him all she knew. Kryltzoff was very weak and had
been sent into the infirmary. Mary Pavlovna was very anxious, and had asked to be allowed to
go to the infirmary as a nurse, but could not get the permission.

"Am I to go?" she asked, noticing that the Englishman was waiting.

"I will not say good-bye; I shall see you again," said Nekhludoff, holding out his hand.

"Forgive me," she said so low that he could hardly hear her. Their eyes met, and Nekhludoff
knew by the strange look of her squinting eyes and the pathetic smile with which she said not
"Good-bye" but "Forgive me," that of the two reasons that might have led to her resolution,
the second was the real one. She loved him, and thought that by uniting herself to him she
would be spoiling his life. By going with Simonson she thought she would be setting Nekhludoff
free, and felt glad that she had done what she meant to do, and yet she suffered at parting
from him.

She pressed his hand, turned quickly and left the room.

Nekhludoff was ready to go, but saw that the Englishman was noting something down, and did
not disturb him, but sat down on a wooden seat by the wall, and suddenly a feeling of terrible
weariness came over him. It was not a sleepless night that had tired him, not the journey,
not the excitement, but he felt terribly tired of living. He leaned against the back of the
bench, shut his eyes and in a moment fell into a deep, heavy sleep.

"Well, would you like to look round the cells now?" the inspector asked.

Nekhludoff looked up and was surprised to find himself where he was. The Englishman had finished
his notes and expressed a wish to see the cells.

Nekhludoff, tired and indifferent, followed him.

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE ENGLISH VISITOR.

When they had passed the anteroom and the sickening, stinking corridor, the Englishman and
Nekhludoff, accompanied by the inspector, entered the first cell, where those sentenced to
hard labour were confined. The beds took up the middle of the cell and the prisoners were all
in bed. There were about 70 of them. When the visitors entered all the prisoners jumped up
and stood beside the beds, excepting two, a young man who was in a state of high fever, and
an old man who did nothing but groan.

The Englishman asked if the young man had long been ill. The inspector said that he was taken
ill in the morning, but that the old man had long been suffering with pains in the stomach,
but could not be removed, as the infirmary had been overfilled for a long time. The Englishman
shook his head disapprovingly, said he would like to say a few words to these people, asking
Nekhludoff to interpret. It turned out that besides studying the places of exile and the prisons
of Siberia, the Englishman had another object in view, that of preaching salvation through
faith and by the redemption.

"Tell them," he said, "that Christ died for them. If they believe in this they shall be saved."
While he spoke, all the prisoners stood silent with their arms at their sides. "This book,
tell them," he continued, "says all about it. Can any of them read?"

There were more than 20 who could.

The Englishman took several bound Testaments out of a hang-bag, and many strong hands with
their hard, black nails stretched out from beneath the coarse shirt-sleeves towards him. He
gave away two Testaments in this cell.

The same thing happened in the second cell. There was the same foul air, the same icon hanging
between the windows, the same tub to the left of the door, and they were all lying side by
side close to one another, and jumped up in the same manner and stood stretched full length
with their arms by their sides, all but three, two of whom sat up and one remained lying, and
did not even look at the newcomers; these three were also ill. The Englishman made the same
speech and again gave away two books.

In the third room four were ill. When the Englishman asked why the sick were not put all together
into one cell, the inspector said that they did not wish it themselves, that their diseases
were not infectious, and that the medical assistant watched them and attended to them.

"He has not set foot here for a fortnight," muttered a voice.

The inspector did not say anything and led the way to the next cell. Again the door was unlocked,
and all got up and stood silent. Again the Englishman gave away Testaments. It was the same
in the fifth and sixth cells, in those to the right and those to the left.

From those sentenced to hard labour they went on to the exiles.

From the exiles to those evicted by the Commune and those who followed of their own free will.

Everywhere men, cold, hungry, idle, infected, degraded, imprisoned, were shown off like wild
beasts.

The Englishman, having given away the appointed number of Testaments, stopped giving any more,
and made no speeches. The oppressing sight, and especially the stifling atmosphere, quelled
even his energy, and he went from cell to cell, saying nothing but "All right" to the inspector's
remarks about what prisoners there were in each cell.

Nekhludoff followed as in a dream, unable either to refuse to go on or to go away, and with
the same feelings of weariness and hopelessness.

CHAPTER XXVII.

KRYLTZOFF AT REST.

In one of the exiles' cells Nekhludoff, to his surprise, recognised the strange old man he
had seen crossing the ferry that morning. This old man was sitting on the floor by the beds,
barefooted, with only a dirty cinder-coloured shirt on, torn on one shoulder, and similar trousers.
He looked severely and enquiringly at the newcomers. His emaciated body, visible through the
holes of his shirt, looked miserably weak, but in his face was even more concentrated seriousness
and animation than when Nekhludoff saw him crossing the ferry. As in all the other cells, so
here also the prisoners jumped up and stood erect when the official entered, but the old man
remained sitting. His eyes glittered and his brows frowned with wrath.

"Get up," the inspector called out to him.

The old man did not rise and only smiled contemptuously.

"Thy servants are standing before thee. I am not thy servant. Thou bearest the seal--" The
old man pointed to the inspector's forehead.

"Wha-a-t?" said the inspector threateningly, and made a step towards him.

"I know this man," Nekhludoff hastened to say; "what is he imprisoned for?"

"The police have sent him here because he has no passport. We ask them not to send such, but
they will do it," said the inspector, casting an angry side look at the old man.

"And so it seems thou, too, art one of Antichrist's army?" the old man said to Nekhludoff.

"No, I am a visitor," said Nekhludoff.

"What, hast thou come to see how Antichrist tortures men? There, look, he has locked them up
in a cage, a whole army of them. Men should eat bread in the sweat of their brow. And he has
locked them up with no work to do, and feeds them like swine, so that they should turn into
beasts."

"What is he saying?" asked the Englishman.

Nekhludoff told him the old man was blaming the inspector for keeping men imprisoned.

"Ask him how he thinks one should treat those who do not keep to the laws," said the Englishman.

Nekhludoff translated the question. The old man laughed in a strange manner, showing his teeth.

"The laws?" he repeated with contempt. "He first robbed everybody, took all the earth, all
the rights away from men, killed all those who were against him, and then wrote laws, forbidding
robbery and murder. He should have written these laws before."

