And I spent every rainy morning and every tired evening of that memorable holiday month in
the society of Santa Teresa and her excellent old-English translator.  Till, ever, as I crossed
the Morteratch and the Roseg, and climbed the hills around Maloggia and Pontresina, a voice
would come after me, saying to me, Why should you not share all this spiritual profit and intellectual
delight with your Sabbath evening congregations, and with your young men's and young women's
classes?  Why should you not introduce Santa Teresa to her daughters in Edinburgh?  For her
daughters they are, so soon and as long as they live in self-knowledge and in self-denial,
in humility and in meekness, and especially in unceasing prayer for themselves and for others.
And I am not without some assurance that in this present lecture I am both hearing and obeying
one of those same locutions that Teresa heard so frequently, and obeyed with such instancy
and fidelity and fruitfulness.

* * * * *

Luther was born in 1483, and he nailed his ninety-five theses to the door of the University
Church of Wittenberg on the 31st October 1517.  Loyola was born in 1491, and Xavier in 1506,
and the Society of Jesus was established in 1534.  Isabella the Catholic was born in 1451,
and our own Protestant Elizabeth in 1533.  The Spanish Inquisition began to sit in 1483, the
Breviary was finally settled in 1568, and the Armada was destroyed in 1588.  Columbus was born
in 1446, and he set out on his great enterprise in 1492.  Cervantes was born in 1547, and the
First Part of his immortal work was published in 1605.  And it is to be read in Santa Teresa's
Breviary to this day that Teresa the Sinner was born on the 29th day of March 1515, at five
o'clock in the morning.  She died in 1582, and in 1622 she was publicly canonised at Rome along
with Loyola and Xavier and two other Spanish saints.

Teresa was greatly blessed in both her parents.  'It helped me much that I never saw my father
or my mother respect anything in any one but goodness.'  Her father was a great reader of the
best books, and he took great pains that his children should form the same happy habit and
should carefully cultivate the same excellent taste.  Her mother, while a Christian gentlewoman
of the first social standing, did not share her husband's love of serious literature.  She
passed far too much of her short lifetime among the romances of the day, till her daughter
has to confess that she took no little harm from the books that did her mother no harm but
pastime to read.  As for other things, her father's house was a perfect model of the very best
morals and the very best manners.  Alonso de Cepeda was a well-born and a well-bred Spanish
gentleman.  He came of an ancient and an illustrious Castilian stock; and, though not a rich
man, his household enjoyed all the nobility of breeding and all the culture of mind and all
the refinement of taste for which Spain was so famous in that great age.  All her days, and
in all her ups and downs in life, we continually trace back to Teresa's noble birth and noble
upbringing no little of her supreme stateliness of deportment and serenity of manner and chivalry
of character.  Teresa was a perfect Spanish lady, as well as a mother in Israel, and no one
who ever conversed with her could for a moment fail to observe that the oldest and best blood
of Spain mantled in her cheek and shone in her eye.  A lion encompassed by crosses was one
of the quarters of her father's coat of arms.  And Teresa took that up and added out of it
a new glory to all her father's hereditary honours.  For his daughter was all her days a lioness
palisaded round with crosses, till by means of them she was transformed into a lamb.  But,
all the time, the lioness was still lurking there. Teresa's was one of those sovereign souls
that are born from time to time as if to show us what our race was created for at first, and
for what it is still destined.  She was a queen among women.  She was in intellect the complete
equal, and in still better things than intellect far the superior, of Isabella and Elizabeth
themselves.  As she says in an outspoken autobiographic passage, hers was one of those outstanding
and towering souls on which a thousand eyes and tongues are continually set without any one
understanding them or comprehending them.  Her coming greatness of soul is foreseen by some
of her biographers in the attempt which she made while yet a child to escape away into the
country of the Moors in search of an early martyrdom, so that she might see her Saviour all
the sooner, and stand in His presence all the purer.  'A woman,' says Crashaw, 'for angelical
height of speculation: for masculine courage of performance, more than a woman; who, while
yet a child, outran maturity, and durst plot a martyrdom.

   Scarce had she learnt to lisp the name
   Of martyr, yet she thinks it shame
   Life should so long sport with that breath,
   Which, spent, can buy so brave a death.

   Scarce had she blood enough to make
   A guilty sword blush for her sake;
   Yet has she heart dares hope to prove
   How much less strong is death than love.

   Be love but there, let poor six years
   Be posed with the maturest fears
   Man trembles at, we straight shall find
   Love knows no nonage, nor the mind.'

Teresa's mother died just when her daughter was at that dangerous age in which a young girl
needs a wise mother most; 'the age when virtue should begin to grow,' as she says herself.
Teresa was an extraordinarily handsome and attractive young lady, and the knowledge of that,
as she tells us, made her very vain, and puffed up her heart with foolish imaginations.  She
has a powerful chapter in the opening of her Autobiography on dangerous companionships in the
days of youth.  'Oh that all parents would take warning by me, and would look carefully into
their children's early friendships!'  She suffered terribly from bad health all her days, and
that severe chastisement began to fall on her while she was yet a beautiful girl.  It was a
succession of serious illnesses, taken along with her father's scrupulous care over her, that
brought Teresa back to the simple piety of her early childhood, and fixed her for life in an
extraordinary devotion to God, and to all the things of God.  When such a change of heart and
character comes to a young woman among ourselves, she usually seeks out some career of religion
and charity to which she can devote her life.  She is found labouring among the poor and the
sick and the children of the poor, or she goes abroad to foreign mission work.  In Teresa's
land and day a Religious House was the understood and universal refuge for any young woman
who was in earnest about her duty to God and to her own soul.  In those Houses such young women
secluded themselves from all society and gave themselves up to the care of the poor and the
young.  In the more strict and enclosed of those retreats the inmates never came out of doors
at all, but wholly sequestered themselves up to a secret life of austerity and prayer.  This
was the ideal life led in those Houses for religious women.  But Teresa soon found out the
tremendous mistake she had made in leaving her father's family-fireside for a so-called Religious
House.  No sooner had she entered it than she was plunged headlong into those very same 'pestilent
amusements,' the mere approach of which had made her flee to this supposed asylum.  Though
she is composing her Autobiography under the sharp eyes of her confessors, and while she is
writing with a submissiveness and, indeed, a servility that is her only weakness, Teresa at
the same time is bold enough and honest enough to tell us her own experiences of monastic life
in language of startling strength and outspokenness.  'A short-cut to hell.  If parents would
take my advice, they would rather marry their daughters to the very poorest of men, or else
keep them at home under their own eye.  If young women will be wicked at home, their wickedness
will not long be hidden at home; but in monasteries, such as I speak of, their worst wickedness
can be completely covered up from every human eye.  And all the time the poor things are not
to blame.  They only walk in the way that is shown them.  Many of them are to be much pitied,
for they honestly wish to withdraw from the world, only to find themselves in ten times worse
worlds of sensuality and all other devilry.  O my God! if I might I would fain speak of some
of the occasions of sin from which Thou didst deliver me, and how I threw myself into them
again.  And of the risks I ran of utterly shipwrecking my character and good name and from
which Thou didst rescue me.  O Lord of my soul! how shall I be able to magnify Thy grace in
those perilous years!  At the very time that I was offending Thee most, Thou didst prepare
me by a most profound compunction to taste of the sweetness of Thy recoveries and consolations.
In truth, O my King, Thou didst administer to me the most spiritual and painful of chastisements:
for Thou didst chastise my sins with great assurances of Thy love and of Thy great mercy. 
It makes me feel beside myself when I call to mind Thy great grace and my great ingratitude.'

This leads us up to the conception and commencement of that great work to which Teresa dedicated
the whole of her after life,--the reformation and extension of the Religious Houses of Spain.
The root-and-branch reformation of Luther and his German and Swiss colleagues had not laid
much hold on Spain; and the little hold it had laid on her native land had never reached to
Teresa.  Had Luther and Teresa but met: had Melanchthon and Teresa but met: had the best books
of the German and Swiss Reformation but come into Teresa's hands: had she been somewhat less
submissive, and somewhat less obedient, and somewhat less completely the slave of her ecclesiastical
superiors; had she but once entered into that intellectual and spiritual liberty wherewith
Christ makes His people free,--what a lasting blessing Teresa might have been made to her native
land!  But, as it was, Teresa's reformation, while it was the salvation of herself and of multitudes
more who came under it, yet as a monastic experiment and a church movement, it ended in the
strengthening and the perpetuation of that detestable system of intellectual and spiritual
tyranny which has been the death of Spain from that day to this.  Teresa performed a splendid
service inside the Church to which she belonged: but that service was wholly confined to the
Religious Houses that she founded and reformed.  Teresa's was intended to be a kind of counter-reformation
to the reformation of Luther and Melanchthon and Valdes and Valera.  And such was the talent
and the faith and the energy she brought to bear on the work she undertook, that, had it been
better directed, it might have been blessed to preserve her beloved native land at the head
of modern Christendom.  But, while that was not to be, it is the immense talent, and the unceasing
toil, and the splendid faith and self-surrender that Teresa brought to bear on her intramural
reformation; and, all through that, on the working out of her own salvation,--it is all these
things that go to make Teresa's long life so memorable and so impressive, not only in her own
age and land and church, but wherever greatness of mind, and nobleness of heart, and sanctity
of life, and stateliness of character are heard of and are esteemed.

Teresa's intellect, her sheer power of mind, is enough of itself to make her an intensely interesting
study to all thinking men.  No one can open her books without confessing the spell of her powerful
understanding.  Her books, before they were books, absolutely captivated and completely converted
to her unpopular cause many of her most determined enemies. Again and again and again we find
her confessors and her censors admitting that both her spiritual experiences and her reformation
work were utterly distasteful and very stumbling to them till they had read her own written
account, first of her life of prayer and then of her reformation work.  One after another of
such men, and some of them the highest in learning and rank and godliness, on reading her autobiographic
papers, came over to be her fearless defenders and fast friends.  There is nothing more delightful
in all her delightful Autobiography, and in the fine 'censures' that have been preserved concerning
it, than to read of the great and learned theologians, the responsible church leaders, and
even the secret inquisitors who came under the charm of her character and the spell of her
pen.  'She electrifies the will,' confessed one of the best judges of good writing in her day.
And old Bishop Palafox's tribute to Teresa is far too beautiful to be withheld.  'What I admire
in her is the peace, the sweetness, and the consolation with which in her writings she draws
us toward the best, so that we find ourselves captured rather than conquered, imprisoned rather
than prisoners.  No one reads the saint's writings who does not presently seek God, and no
one through her writings seeks God who does not remain in love with the saint.  I have not
met with a single spiritual man who does not become a passionate admirer of Santa Teresa. 
But her writings do not alone impart a rational, interior, and superior love, but a love at
the same time practical, natural, and sensitive; and my own experience proves it to me that
there exists no one who loves her but would, if the saint were still in this world, travel
far to see and speak with her.'  I wish much I could add to that Peter of Alcantara's marvellous
analysis of Teresa's experiences and character.  Under thirty-three heads that great saint
sums up Teresa's character, and gives us a noble, because all unconscious, revelation of his
own.  And though Teresa has been dead for three hundred years, she speaks to this day in that
same way: and that too in quarters in which we would little expect to hear her voice.  In that
intensely interesting novel of modern Parisian life, En Route, Teresa takes a chief part in
the conversion and sanctification of the prodigal son whose return to his father's house is
so powerfully depicted in that story.  The deeply read and eloquent author of that remarkable
book gives us some of the best estimates and descriptions of Santa Teresa that I have anywhere
met with.  'That cool-headed business woman . . . that admirable psychologist and of superhuman
lucidity . . . that magnificent and over-awing saint . . . she has verified in her own case
the supernatural experiences of the greatest mystics,--such are her unparalleled experiences
in the supernatural domain. . . .  Teresa goes deeper than any like writer into the unexplored
regions of the soul.  She is the geographer and hydrographer of the sinful soul.  She has drawn
the map of its poles, marked its latitudes of contemplation and prayer, and laid out all the
interior seas and lands of the human heart.  Other saints have been among those heights and
depths and deserts before her, but no one has left us so methodical and so scientific a survey.'
Were it for nothing else, the chapters on mystical literature in M. Huysmans' unfinished trilogy
would make it a valued possession to every student of the soul of man under sin and under salvation.
I await the completion of his Pilgrim's Progress with great impatience and with great expectation.

And then, absolutely possessed as Teresa always is by the most solemn subjects,--herself, her
sin, her Saviour, her original method of prayer and her unshared experiences in prayer,--she
showers upon us continually gleams and glances of the sunniest merriment, amid all her sighs
and tears.  She roasts in caustic the gross-minded, and the self-satisfied, and the self-righteous,
as Socrates himself never roasted them better. Again, like his, her irony and her raillery
and her satire are sometimes so delicate that it quite eludes you for the first two or three
readings of the exquisite page.  And then, when you turn the leaf, she is as ostentatiously
stupid and ignorant and dependent on your superior mind as ever Socrates himself was.  Till
I shrewdly suspect that no little of that 'obedience' which so intoxicated and fascinated her
inquisitors, and which to this day so exasperates some of her biographers, was largely economical
and ironical.  Her narrow cell is reported to have often resounded with peals of laughter to
the scandal of some of her sisters. In support of all that, I have marked a score of Socratic
passages in Woodhead, and Dalton, and Lewis, and Father Coleridge, and Mrs. Cunninghame Graham.
They are very delicious passages and very tempting. But were they once begun there would be
no end to them.  You will believe Froude, for he is an admitted judge in all matters connected
with the best literature, and he says in his Quarterly article on Teresa's writings, 'The best
satire of Cervantes is not more dainty.'

The great work to which Teresa gave up her whole life, after her full conversion, was the purification
of the existing monastic system, and the multiplication and extension of Religious Houses of
the strictest, severest, most secluded, most prayerful, and most saintly life.  She had been
told by those she too much trusted, that the Church of Christ was being torn in pieces in Germany,
and in Switzerland, and in France, and in England by a great outbreak of heretical error; and,
while the Society of Jesus and the Secret Inquisition were established to cope with all such
heresy, Teresa set herself to counteract it by a widespread combination of unceasing penance
and intercessory prayer.  It was a zeal without knowledge; but there can be no doubt about
the sincerity, the single-mindedness, and the strength of the zeal.  For forty as hard-working
years as ever any woman spent in this world, Teresa laboured according to her best light to
preserve the purity and the unity of the Church of Christ.  And the strength and the sagacity
of mind, the tact, the business talents, the tenacity of will, the patience, the endurance,
the perseverance, the sleepless watchfulness, and the abounding prayerfulness that she brought
to bear on the reformation and multiplication of her fortresses of defence and attack in that
holy war, all taken together, make up one of the most remarkable pages in the whole history
of the Church of Christ.  Her difficulties with Rome, with the Inquisition, with her more immediate
superiors, confessors, and censors, and, most of all, with the ignorance, the stupidity, the
laziness, the malice, and the lies of those monks and nuns whose reformation she was determined
on: her endless journeys: her negotiations with church-leaders, landowners, and tradesmen in
selecting and securing sites, and in erecting new religious houses: the adventures, the accidents,
the entertainments she met with: and the fine temper, the good humour, the fascinating character,
the winning manners she everywhere exhibited; and, withal, her incomparable faith in the Living
God, and the exquisite inwardness, unconquerable assurance, and abounding fruitfulness of her
own and unshared method and secret of prayer,--had Teresa not lived and died in Spain, and
had she not spent her life and done her work under the Roman obedience, her name would have
been a household word in Scotland.  As it is, she is not wholly unknown or unloved.  And as
knowledge extends, and love, and good-will; and as suspicion, and fear, and retaliation, and
party-spirit die out among us, the truth about Teresa and multitudes more will become established
on clearer and deeper and broader foundations; and we shall be able to hail both her and multitudes
more like her as our brothers and sisters in Christ, whom hitherto we have hated and despised
because we did not know them, and had been poisoned against them.  I am a conspicuous case
in point myself.  And when I have been conquered by a little desultory reading and by a little
effort after love no man need despair.  Follow after charity, and begin with Santa Teresa.

   Forbid it, mighty Love, let no fond hate
   Of names or words so far prejudicate;
   Souls are not Spaniards too; one friendly flood
   Of baptism blends them all into one blood.
   What soul soe'er in any language can
   Speak heaven like hers, is my soul's countryman.

But the greatest and the best talent that God gives to any man or woman in this world is the
talent of prayer.  And the best usury that any man or woman brings back to God when He comes
to reckon with them at the end of this world is a life of prayer.  And those servants best
put their Lord's money to the exchangers who rise early and sit late, as long as they are in
this world, ever finding out and ever following after better and better methods of prayer,
and ever forming more secret, more steadfast, and more spiritually fruitful habits of prayer:
till they literally pray without ceasing, and till they continually strike out into new enterprises
in prayer, and new achievements, and new enrichments.  It was this that first drew me to Teresa.
It was her singular originality in prayer and her complete captivity to prayer.  It was the
time she spent in prayer, and the refuge, and the peace, and the sanctification, and the power
for carrying on hard and unrequited work that she all her life found in prayer.  It was her
fidelity and her utter surrender of herself to this first and last of all her religious duties,
till it became more a delight, and, indeed, more an indulgence, than a duty.  With Teresa it
was prayer first, and prayer last, and prayer always.  With Teresa literally all things were
sanctified, and sweetened, and made fruitful by prayer.  In Teresa's writings prayer holds
much the same place that it holds in the best men and women of Holy Scripture.  If I were to
say that about some of the ladies of the Scottish Covenant, you would easily believe me.  But
you must believe me when I tell you that about a Spanish lady, second to none of them in holiness
of life, even if her holy life is not all cast in our mould.  All who have read the autobiographic
Apologia will remember the fine passage in which its author tells us that ever since his conversion
there have been two, and only two, absolutely self-luminous beings in the whole universe of
being to him,--God and his own soul.  Now, I do not remember that Newman even once speaks about
Teresa in any of his books, but I always think of him and her together in this great respect.
GOD is to them both, and to them both He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him.  And
it is just here, at the very commencement and centre of divine things, that we all make such
shipwreck and come so short.  The sense of the reality of divine and unseen things in Teresa's
life of prayer is simply miraculous in a woman still living among things seen and temporal.
Her faith is truly the substance of things hoped for, and the evidence of things not seen.
Our Lord was as real, as present, as near, as visible, and as affable to this extraordinary
saint as ever He was to Martha, or Mary, or Mary Magdalene, or the woman of Samaria, or the
mother of Zebedee's children.  She prepared Him where to lay His head; she sat at His feet
and heard His word.  She chose the better part, and He acknowledged to herself and to others
that she had done so.  She washed His feet with her tears, and wiped them with the hair of
her head.  She had been forgiven much, and she loved much.  He said to her, Mary, and she answered
Him, Rabboni.  And He gave her messages to deliver to His disciples, who had not waited for
Him as she had waited.  Till she was able to say to them all that she had seen the Lord, and
that He had spoken such and such things within her.  And hence arises what I may call the quite
extraordinary purity and spirituality of her life of prayer.  'Defecate' is Goodwin's favourite
and constant word for the purest, the most rapt, the most adoring, and the most spiritual prayer.
'I have known men'--it must have been himself--'who came to God for nothing else but just to
come to Him, they so loved Him.  They scorned to soil Him and themselves with any other errand
than just purely to be alone with Him in His presence.  Friendship is best kept up, even among
men, by frequent visits; and the more free and defecate those frequent visits are, and the
less occasioned by business, or necessity, or custom they are, the more friendly and welcome
they are.'  Now, I have sometimes wondered what took Teresa so often, and kept her so long,
alone with God.  Till I remembered Goodwin's classical passages about defecated prayer, and
understood something of what is involved and what is to be experienced in pure and immediate
communion with God.  And, then, from all that it surely follows, that no one is fit for one
moment to have an adverse or a hostile mind, or to pass an adverse or a hostile judgment, on
the divine manifestations that came to Teresa in her unparalleled life of prayer; no one who
is not a man of like prayer himself; no, nor even then.  I know all the explanations that have
been put forward for Teresa's 'locutions' and revelations; but after anxiously weighing them
all, the simplest explanation is also the most scientific, as it is the most scriptural.  If
our ascending Lord actually said what He is reported to have said about the way that He and
His Father will always reward all love to Him, and the keeping of all His commandments; then,
if there is anything true about Teresa at all, it is this, that from the day of her full conversion
she lived with all her might that very life which has all these transcendent promises spoken
and sealed to it.  By her life of faith and prayer and personal holiness, Teresa made herself
'capable of God,' as one describes it, and God came to her and filled her with Himself to her
utmost capacity, as He said He would.  At the same time, much as I trust and honour and love
Teresa, and much good as she has been made of God to me, she was still, at her best, but an
imperfectly sanctified woman, and her rewards and experiences were correspondingly imperfect.
But if a holy life before such manifestations were made to her, and a still holier life after
them--if that is any test of the truth and reality of such transcendent and supernatural matters,--on
her own humble and adoring testimony, and on the now extorted and now spontaneous testimony
of absolutely all who lived near her, still more humility, meekness, lowly- mindedness, heavenly-mindedness
and prayerfulness demonstrably followed those inward and spiritual revelations to her of her
Lord.  On the whole, then, I for one am strongly disposed toward Teresa, even in the much-inculpated
matter of her inward voices and visions.  The wish may very possibly be father to the thought:
but my thought leans to Teresa, even in her most astounding locutions and revelations; they
answer so entirely to my reading of our Lord and of His words.  I take sides, on the whole,
with those theologians of her day, who began by doubting, but ended by believing in Teresa
and by imitating her.  They were led to rejoice that any contemporary and fellow-sinner had
attained to such fellowship with God: and I am constrained to take sides with them.  'One day,
in prayer, the sweetness was so great that I could not but contrast it with the place I deserved
in hell.  The sweetness and the light and the peace were so great that, compared with it, everything
in this world is vanity and lies.  I was filled with a new reverence for God.  I saw His majesty
and His power in a way I cannot describe, and the vision kept me in great tenderness and joy
and humility.  I cannot help making much of that which led me so near to God. I knew at that
great moment what it is for a soul to be in the very presence of God Himself.  What must be
the condescension of His majesty seeing that in so short a time He left so great an impression
and so great a blessing on my soul!  O my Lord, consider who she is upon whom Thou art bestowing
such unheard-of blessings!  Dost Thou forget that my soul has been an abyss of sin?  How is
this, O Lord, how can it be that such great grace has come to the lot of one who has so ill
deserved such things at Thy hands!'  He who can read that, and a hundred passages as good as
that, and who shall straightway set himself to sneer and scoff and disparage and find fault,
he is well on the way to the sin against the Holy Ghost.  At any rate, I would be if I did
not revere and love and imitate such a saint of God.  Given God and His Son and His Holy Spirit:
given sin and salvation and prayer and a holy life; and, with many drawbacks, Teresa's was
just the life of self-denial and repentance and prayer and communion with God that we should
all live.  It is not Teresa who is to be bemoaned and blamed and called bad names.  It is we
who do all that to her who are beside ourselves.  It is we who need the beam to be taken out
of our own eye.  Teresa was a mystery and an offence; and, again, an encouragement and an example
to the theologians and the inquisitors of her day just as she still is in our day.  She was
a stumbling-stone, or an ensample, according to the temper and disposition and character of
her contemporaries, and she is the same to-day.

The pressing question with me is not the truth or the falsehood, the amount of reality or the
amount of imagination in Teresa's locutions and visions.  The pressing question with me is
this,--Why it is that I have nothing to show to myself at all like them.  I think I could die
for the truth of my Lord's promise that both He and His Father will manifest Themselves to
those who love Him and keep His words; but He never manifests Himself, to be called manifestation,
to me.  I am driven in sheer desperation to believe such testimonies and attainments as those
of Teresa, if only to support my failing faith in the words of my Master.  I had rather believe
every syllable of Teresa's so-staggering locutions and visions than be left to this, that ever
since Paul and John went home to heaven our Lord's greatest promises have been so many idle
words.  It is open to any man to scoff and sneer at Teresa's extraordinary life of prayer,
and at the manifestations of the Father and the Son that were made to her in her life of prayer,
and some of her biographers and censors among ourselves have made good use of their opportunity.
But I cannot any longer sit with them in the seat of the scorner, and I want you all to rise
up and leave that evil seat also.  Lord, how wilt Thou manifest Thyself in time to come to
me?  How shall I attain to that faith and to that love and to that obedience which shall secure
to me the long- withheld presence and indwelling of the Father and the Son?

* * * * *

Teresa's Autobiography, properly speaking, is not an autobiography at all, though it ranks
with The Confessions, and The Commedia, and The Grace Abounding, and The Reliquiae, as one
of the very best of that great kind of book.  It is not really Teresa's Life Written by Herself,
though all that stands on its title-page.  It is only one part of her life: it is only her
life of prayer.  The title of the book, she says in one place, is not her life at all, but
The Mercies of God.  Many other matters come up incidentally in this delightful book, but the
whole drift and the real burden of the book is its author's life of prayer.  Her attainments
and her experiences in prayer so baffled and so put out all her confessors that, at their wits'
end, they enjoined her to draw out in writing a complete account of a secret life, the occasional
and partial discovery of which so amazed, and perplexed, and condemned them.  And thus it is
that we come to possess this unique and incomparable autobiography: this wonderful revelation
of Teresa's soul in prayer.  It is a book in which we see a woman of sovereign intellectual
ability working out her own salvation in circumstances so different from our own that we have
the greatest difficulty in believing that it was really salvation at all she was so working
out.  Till, as we read in humility and in love, we learn to separate-off all that is local,
and secular, and ecclesiastical, and circumstantial, and then we immensely enjoy and take lasting
profit out of all that which is so truly Catholic and so truly spiritual.  Teresa was an extraordinary
woman in every way: and that comes out on every page of her Autobiography.  So extraordinary
that I confess there is a great deal that she tells us about herself that I do not at all understand.
She was Spanish, and we are Scottish.  She and we are wide as the poles asunder.  Her lot was
cast of God in the sixteenth century, whereas our lot is cast in the nineteenth.  She was a
Roman Catholic mystic, and we are Evangelical Protestants.  But it is one of the great rewards
of studying such a life as Teresa's to be able to change places with her so as to understand
her and love her.  She was, without any doubt or contradiction, a great saint of God.  And
a great saint of God is more worthy of our study and admiration and imitation and love than
any other study or admiration or imitation or love on the face of the earth.  And the further
away such a saint is from us the better she is for our study and admiration and imitation and
love, if we only have the sense and the grace to see it.

