When the very first ones came to the Lord, Mr. Trainer had suggested that they meet on the
Lord's Day. He had usually taken charge of that service himself. By the time there were a dozen
or so baptized Christians, he encouraged them to feel that they, like the Jerusalem church
in Acts 6, should choose deacons. The group spent much time in prayer, looking to the Lord
for His guidance, and when the deacons were actually chosen, all felt that they were not just
their own choice, but men chosen by the Holy Spirit. After they were chosen, he turned over
all the services to them, and suggested that they take turns in leading the Sunday morning
service, and also speaking at that service. He would be glad to take his turn with the others.
And so it was carried out.

All this time they had been meeting in the various homes. The inconvenience of unsuitable rooms
and never having enough benches had been felt for some time, so when the deacons took over
they decided that something must be done about it. Didn't other places have church buildings?
Why couldn't they? Some of the group had the idea that there was some kind of a mission or
church somewhere that provided money for such things, so off they went to inquire of the missionary.
He explained to them clearly that there were mission boards that provided funds, in whole or
part, for church buildings in many places; but that this did not seem to be the New Testament
way, nor was it the way to build a strong local church. "It would be far better," he said,
"to meet in a shanty put up by yourselves, than in a beautiful building that cost you nothing."
They had several long talks on the subject, and soon all the Christians were deeply concerned.
It seemed impossible to out-argue Mr. Trainer. At the same time it seemed even more impossible
to do what he thought they ought to do--contribute enough money to build their own church building!
Only twelve or fifteen baptized Christians, and several of them women or young people from
homes where the head of the house did not believe--what could they do? Mr. Trainer would only
counsel them to pray. And pray they did--there seemed to be nothing else they could do. Finally
the deacons made a special offering box for gifts for the new church building, and the money
began to come in. The gifts were more than they expected; and yet they were but a drop in the
bucket compared with what was needed. Time passed, and the fund slowly grew. Suggestions of
"church bazaars" and "fun fairs" were made several times (wherever had they heard of such things?).
Mr. Trainer counseled against them, but did not feel that he had the authority to forbid. After
all, the church was standing on its own feet, and it stood or fell to Christ alone! But he
spent much time in prayer, and none of these suggestions was put into effect.

One Sunday an electrifying announcement was made. A wealthy businessman in the city was offering
them a suitable piece of property for their building as an outright gift! The Christians redoubled
their efforts in giving, and that month they received ten times as much as they had received
in any one month before. A church in a city not too far away heard of their efforts, and sent
a contribution. Church membership was growing, and all the new believers became interested
in giving. Then two of the deacons made a proposal: "Why can't we do most of the work on the
building ourselves? That will make it much less expensive!"

The plans needed careful working out, but assistance was given by someone's neighbor, who was
a builder, and finally the work started. Many of them put in long hours of back-breaking labor
after their regular work for the day had been completed. Difficulties appeared, but prayer
and perseverance prevailed. After the building was started, many more gifts came in; and great
was the rejoicing when the simple little chapel was at last finished, and used for its first
Sunday morning service! Throngs of interested neighbors and friends turned up for the meeting,
and several of the deacons took turns at preaching. A guest speaker had also been invited,
the pastor of the church that had sent an unsolicited offering to help with the building. The
meeting went on for more than two hours, but everyone was happy, and again and again praises
ascended to God for their own church building!

       *       *       *       *       *

A couple of years passed. The work of Mr. Beaver and Mr. Trainer continued as begun. Then suddenly
the country was threatened by war. Worse still, the missionaries were labeled as "enemy nationals."
A general evacuation took place. Both Mr. Beaver and Mr. Trainer were due for furloughs; and
even if they had not been, remaining on the field could only bring harm to the Christians.
Both of them gathered up a few things and departed, escaping from the country just in time.
If they had remained a few days longer, they would have found themselves in concentration camps.
When they arrived at home, each had a thrilling tale to tell of how God had worked in saving
souls and building up His Church, and also of personal deliverance in time of danger. At the
end of every message they gave came these words: "Pray for the Christians there. Because of
the war, there is no way of getting news from them, and we have heard nothing since we left.
Pray that they may be kept true, and that in spite of war and distress, the churches may grow
and expand, and that many more souls may be brought to Christ."

       *       *       *       *       *

The war was over. Friendly relations between countries were again established. Both missionaries
had had profitable furloughs: time for rest and spiritual refreshment, and many opportunities
to make known the needs, the difficulties, and the triumphs of the mission field. Then--something
happened. Both men fully expected to get back to their original fields of work, to see again
those dear Christians, their sons and daughters in the Lord--but neither did. Another call
came to each, and neither could return to his former field. Others went instead--others who
knew little about the history of the stations, or what work had been done there. What did these
men find in these two fields? I think you can guess!

Mr. Beaver's station had always been supplied with plenty of money from abroad. By becoming
a Christian a man could obtain a certain amount of relief money, perhaps a job, or free schooling
for his children. Many had learned "the language of Zion" and had been taken into the church
who had never had a change of heart. When war broke out and the missionary left, the jobs were
finished, and the school closed down. There was no one to pay the evangelists, and they gradually
drifted away to other places or into secular jobs. The deacons and elders had been accustomed
to taking orders from Mr. Beaver and had had no real experience in looking after things themselves.
Even some of those leaders were of the group that had joined the church, not because they had
really repented and turned to Christ, but for the material benefits they could get.

