HELENE H. BOLL

1921

Affectionately dedicated to

MRS. MARTHA C. BÜHLER

PREFACE

To our Boys and Girls:

Years ago, in a little country called Switzerland, there lived a little girl who was the daughter
of a doctor. This doctor sometimes had to climb up high mountains and sometimes he had to descend
slowly to the deep valleys, always on horseback, to visit the sick people who had sent for
him. Of course there were no telephones, electric lights, steam trains or automobiles, and
so often this doctor was away from home for two or three days attending the people who needed
his help. His trips took him into little villages where there were only a few hundred poor
people who made a scant living from farming and sheep raising, but he knew them so well that
he became very fond of them, and he shared their sorrows and joys. When he returned home he
would tell his little daughter, who was Johanna Spyri, about what he had seen and heard. She
became very much interested in the people whom her father told about, and when she grew up
she visited many of the places that he had told her about when she was a child.

It was not until she was quite a grown woman that she wrote any books, but the children of
Switzerland and Germany loved her stories so much, that we have decided to translate the story
of Erick and Sally for the children of America. The author knew children and loved them, and
wrote to them and not for them. Thus, every one who reads this story will follow the sorrows
and pleasures of Erick just as if he were a personal living friend.

The translator understands American boys and girls, for she has been a teacher in our schools
for many years. She also has an intimate knowledge of the country described in this story for
she has often visited the places mentioned. Through her knowledge and love of the country about
which Madame Spyri wrote, and speaking her language, the translator, Helene H. Boll, appreciates
her thoughts, and has faithfully reproduced them in this absorbing little story.

THE PUBLISHERS.

CONTENTS

Chapter I     In the Parsonage of Upper Wood Chapter II    A Call in the Village Chapter III
'Lizebeth on the Warpath Chapter IV    The Same Night in Two Houses Chapter V     Disturbance
in School and Home Chapter VI    A Lost Hymn Chapter VII   Erick Enlists in the Fighting Army
Chapter VIII  What Happens on Organ-Sunday Chapter IX    A Secret that is Kept Chapter X  
Surprising Things Happen

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

Portrait of Madame Spyri

Now the lady held out her hand and said in a friendly tone, "Come here, dear child"

Churi....unexpectedly gave him such a severe push that Erick rolled down the rest of the mountain
side

He threw both arms around the old gentleman's neck and rejoicingly exclaimed: "Oh, Grandfather,
is it really you?"

CHAPTER I

In the Parsonage of Upper Wood

The sun was shining so brightly through the foremost windows of the old schoolhouse in Upper
Wood, that the children of the first and second classes appeared as if covered with gold. They
looked at one another, all with beaming faces, partly because the sun made them appear so,
and partly for joy; for when the sunshine came through the last window, then the moment approached
that the closing word would be spoken, and the children could rush out into the evening sunshine.
The teacher was still busy with the illuminated heads of the second class, and indeed with
some zeal, for several sentences had still to be completed, before the school could be closed.
The teacher was standing before a boy who looked well-fed and quite comfortable, and who was
looking up into the teacher's face with eyes as round as two little balls.

"Well, Ritz, hurry, you surely must have thought of something by now. Now then! What can be
made useful in a household? Do not forget to mention the three indispensable qualities of the
object."

Ritz, the youngest son of the minister, was usually busy thinking of that which had just happened
to him. So just now it had come to his mind, how this very morning Auntie had arrived. She
was an older sister of his mother and had no home of her own; but made a home with her relatives.
She was a frequent visitor at the parsonage for months at a time and would help the mother
in governing the household. Ritz remembered especially, that Auntie was particularly inclined
to have the children go to bed in good time--and they had to go--and he also remembered that
they could not get the extra ten minutes from Mother, for Auntie was always against begging
Mother. In fact, Auntie talked so much about going to bed, that Ritz felt the feared command
of retiring during the whole day. So his thoughts were occupied with these experiences, and
he said after some thinking: "One can make use of an aunt in a household. She must--she must--she
must--"

"Well, what must she? That will be something different from a quality," the teacher interrupted
the laborious speech of the boy.

"She must not always be reminding that it is time to go to bed," it now came out.

"Ritz," the teacher said now in a severe tone, "is the school the place to joke?"

But Ritz looked at the teacher with such unmistakable fright and astonishment, that the latter
saw that it was an honest opinion which Ritz had made use of in his sentence. FASTING.

When Isabella resided with Mr. Pierson, he was in the habit of fasting every Friday; not eating or
drinking anything from Thursday evening to six o'clock on Friday
evening.

Then, again, he would fast two nights and three days, neither eating nor drinking; refusing himself
even a cup of cold water till the third day at night, when he took
supper again, as usual.

Isabella asked him why he fasted. He answered, that fasting gave him great light in the things of God;
which answer gave birth to the following train of thought in the
mind of his auditor:-'Well, if fasting will give light inwardly and
spiritually, I need it as much as any body,-and I'll fast too.

If Mr. Pierson needs to fast two nights and three days, then I, who need light more than he
does, ought to fast more, and I will fast three nights and three
days.'This resolution she carried out to the letter, putting not so
much as a drop of water in her mouth for three whole days and nights.

The fourth morning, as she arose to her feet, not having the power to stand, she fell to the floor;
but recovering herself sufficiently, she made her way to the pantry,
and feeling herself quite voracious, and fearing that she might now
offend God by her voracity, compelled herself to breakfast on dry
bread and water-eating a large six-penny loaf before she felt at all
stayed or satisfied.

She says she did get light, but it was all in her body and none in her mind-and this lightness
of body lasted a long time. Oh! she was so light, and felt so well, she could'skim around like
a gull.'THE CAUSE OF HER LEAVING THE CITY. The first years spent by Isabella in the city, she
accumulated more than enough to satisfy all her wants, and she placed all the overplus in the Savings'Bank.
Afterwards, while living with Mr. Pierson, he prevailed on her to take it all thence, and invest
it in a common fund which he was about establishing, as a fund to
be drawn from by all the faithful; the faithful, of course, were the
handful that should subscribe to his peculiar creed.

This fund, commenced by Mr. Pierson, afterwards became part and parcel
of the kingdom of which Matthias assumed to be head; and at the breaking
up of the kingdom, her little property was merged in the general ruin-or
went to enrich those who profited by the loss of others, if any such
there were.

Mr. Pierson and others had so assured her, that the fund would supply
all her wants, at all times, and in all emergencies, and to the end
of life, that she became perfectly careless on the subject-asking
for no interest when she drew her money from the bank, and taking
no account of the sum she placed in the fund.

She recovered a few articles of the furniture from the wreck of the
kingdom, and received a small sum of money from Mr. B. Folger, as the
price of Mrs. Folger's attempt to convict her of murder.

With this to start upon, she commenced anew her labors, in the hope of yet being able to
accumulate a sufficiency to make a little home for herself, in her
advancing age. With this stimulus before her, she toiled hard, working
early and late, doing a great deal for a little money, and turning
her hand to almost anything that promised good pay.

Still, she did not prosper, and somehow, could not contrive to lay by a single dollar for a'rainy
day.'When this had been the state of her affairs some time, she suddenly paused, and taking
a retrospective view of what had passed, inquired within herself, why it was that, for all her
unwearied labors, she had nothing to show; why it was that others, with much less care and
labor, could hoard up treasures for themselves and children? She became more and more convinced, as
she reasoned, that every thing she had undertaken in the city of New York had finally proved
a failure; and where her hopes had been raised the highest, there she felt the failure had been the
greatest, and the disappointment most severe. After turning it in her mind for some time, she
came to the conclusion, that she had been taking part in a great drama, which was, in itself, but
one great system of robbery and wrong.'Yes,'she said,'the rich rob the poor, and the poor rob
one another.'True, she had not received labor from others, and stinted their pay, as she felt had
been practised against her; but she had taken their work from them, which was their only means
to get money, and was the same to them in the end. For instance-a gentleman where she lived would
give her a dollar to hire a poor man to clear the new-fallen snow
from the steps and side-walks.

She would arise early, and perform the labor herself, putting the money into her own pocket. A poor man
would come along, saying she ought to have let him have the job; he
was poor, and needed the pay for his family. She would harden her
heart against him, and answer-'I am poor too, and I need it for mine.'But,
in her retrospection, she thought of all the misery she might have
been adding to, in her selfish grasping, and it troubled her conscience
sorely; and this insensibility to the claims of human brotherhood,
and the wants of the destitute and wretched poor, she now saw, as
she never had done before, to be unfeeling, selfish and wicked.

These reflections and convictions gave rise to a sudden revulsion of feeling in the heart of Isabella,
and she began to look upon money and property with great indifference, if not contempt-being at
that time unable, probably, to discern any difference between a miserly
grasping at and hoarding of money and means, and a true use of the
good things of this life for one's own comfort, and the relief of
such as she might be enabled to befriend and assist.

One thing she was sure of-that the precepts,'Do unto others as ye would that others should do unto
you,'' Love your neighbor as yourself,'and so forth, were maxims that
had been but little thought of by herself, or practised by those
about her.

Her next decision was, that she must leave the city; it was no place for her; yea, she felt called
in spirit to leave it, and to travel east and lecture. She had never been further east than the city,
neither had she any friends there of whom she had particular reason
to expect any thing; yet to her it was plain that her mission lay
in the east, and that she would find friends there.

She determined on leaving; but these determinations and convictions
she kept close locked in her own breast, knowing that if her children
and friends were aware of it, they would make such an ado about it
as would render it very unpleasant, if not distressing to all parties.

Having made what preparations for leaving she deemed necessary,-which was, to put up a few articles
of clothing in a pillow-case, all else being deemed an unnecessary
incumbrance,-about an hour before she left, she informed Mrs. Whiting,
the woman of the house where she was stopping, that her name was no
longer Isabella, but SOJOURNER; and that she was going east.

And to her inquiry,'What are you going east for?'her answer was,'The Spirit calls me there,
and I must go.'She left the city on the morning of the 1st of June, 1843, crossing over to
Brooklyn, L. I.; and taking the rising sun for her only compass
and guide, she'remembered Lot's wife,'and hoping to avoid her fate,
she resolved not to look back till she felt sure the wicked city
from which she was fleeing was left too far behind to be visible
in the distance; and when she first ventured to look back, she could
just discern the blue cloud of smoke that hung over it, and she thanked
the Lord that she was thus far removed from what seemed to her a second
Sodom.

She was now fairly started on her pilgrimage; her bundle in one hand, and a little basket
of provisions in the other, and two York shillings in her purse-her heart
strong in the faith that her true work lay before her, and that the
Lord was her director; and she doubted not he would provide for and
protect her, and that it would be very censurable in her to burden
herself with any thing more than a moderate supply for her then present
needs.

Her mission was not merely to travel east, but to'lecture,'as she designated it;'testifying
of the hope that was in her'-exhorting the people to embrace Jesus, and refrain from sin, the
nature and origin of which she explained to them in accordance with
her own most curious and original views.

Through her life, and all its chequered changes, she has ever clung fast to her first permanent
impressions on religious subjects.

Wherever night overtook her, there she sought for lodgings-free, if
she might-if not, she paid; at a tavern, if she chanced to be at one-if
not, at a private dwelling; with the rich, if they would receive her-if
not, with the poor.

But she soon discovered that the largest houses were nearly always full; if not quite full,
company was soon expected; and that it was much easier to find an unoccupied corner in a small
house than in a large one; and if a person possessed but a miserable roof
over his head, you might be sure of a welcome to part of it.

But this, she had penetration enough to see, was quite as much the effect of a want of sympathy as
of benevolence; and this was also very apparent in her religious conversations with people who were
strangers to her. She said,'she never could find out that the rich had any religion. If I had
been rich and accomplished, I could; for the rich could always find
religion in the rich, and I could find it among the poor.'At first,
she attended such meetings as she heard of, in the vicinity of her
travels, and spoke to the people as she found them assembled.

Afterwards, she advertised meetings of her own, and held forth to large audiences, having, as
she said,'a good time.'When she became weary of travelling, and wished
a place to stop a while and rest herself, she said some opening for
her was always near at hand; and the first time she needed rest, a
man accosted her as she was walking, inquiring if she was looking
for work.

She told him that was not the object of her travels, but that she would willingly work a few days, if
any one wanted. He requested her to go to his family, who were sadly
in want of assistance, which he had been thus far unable to supply.
She went to the house where she was directed, and was received by
his family, one of whom was ill, as a'Godsend;'and when she felt constrained
to resume her journey, they were very sorry, and would fain have detained
her longer; but as she urged the necessity of leaving, they offered
her what seemed in her eyes a great deal of money as a remuneration
for her labor, and an expression of their gratitude for her opportune
assistance; but she would only receive a very little of it; enough,
as she says, to enable her to pay tribute to Caesar, if it was demanded
of her; and two or three York shillings at a time were all she allowed
herself to take; and then, with purse replenished, and strength renewed,
she would once more set out to perform her mission.

THE CONSEQUENCES OF REFUSING A TRAVELLER A NIGHT'S LODGING. As she drew
near the center of the Island, she commenced, one evening at nightfall,
to solicit the favor of a night's lodging. She had repeated her request
a great many, it seemed to her some twenty times, and as many times
she received a negative answer. She walked on, the stars and the tiny horns
of the new moon shed but a dim light on her lonely way, when she was
familiarly accosted by two Indians, who took her for an acquaintance.

She told them they were mistaken in the person; she was a stranger there, and asked them the direction
to a tavern. They informed her it was yet a long way-some two miles or so; and inquired if she
were alone. Not wishing for their protection, or knowing what might be the character of their kindness,
she answered,'No, not exactly,'and passed on. At the end of a weary way, she came to the tavern,-or
rather, to a large building, which was occupied as a court-house,
tavern, and jail,-and on asking for a night's lodging, was informed
she could stay, if she would consent to be locked in.

This to her mind was an insuperable objection. To have a key turned on her was a thing not to be
thought of, at least not to be endured, and she again took up her line of march, preferring to
walk beneath the open sky, to being locked up by a stranger in such
a place.

She had not walked far, before she heard the voice of a woman under an open shed; she ventured to accost
her, and inquired if she knew where she could get in for the night. The woman answered, that
she did not, unless she went home with them; and turning to her'good man,'asked him if the stranger
could not share their home for the night, to which he cheerfully
assented.

Sojourner thought it evident he had been taking a drop too much, but as he was civil and good-natured,
and she did not feel inclined to spend the night alone in the open
air, she felt driven to the necessity of accepting their hospitality,
whatever it might prove to be.

The woman soon informed her that there was a ball in the place, at which they would like to drop in a while,
before they went to their home. Balls being no part of Sojourner's
mission, she was not desirous of attending; but her hostess could
be satisfied with nothing short of a taste of it, and she was forced
to go with her, or relinquish their company at once, in which move
there might be more exposure than in accompanying her.

She went, and soon found herself surrounded
by an assemblage of people, collected from the very dregs of society,
too ignorant and degraded to understand, much less entertain, a high
or bright idea,-in a dirty hovel, destitute of every comfort, and
where the fumes of whiskey were abundant and powerful.

Sojourner's guide there was too much charmed with the combined entertainments of the place
to be able to tear herself away, till she found her faculties for
enjoyment failing her, from a too free use of liquor; and she betook
herself to bed till she could recover them.

Sojourner, seated in a corner, had time for many reflections, and
refrained from lecturing them, in obedience to the recommendation,'Cast
not your pearls,'& c. When the night was far spent, the husband of
the sleeping woman aroused the sleeper, and reminded her that she
was not very polite to the woman she had invited to sleep at her house,
and of the propriety of returning home.

They once more emerged into the pure air, which to our friend Sojourner, after so long breathing
the noisome air of the ball-room, was most refreshing and grateful.

Just as day dawned, they reached the place they called their home. Sojourner
now saw that she had lost nothing in the shape of rest by remaining
so long at the ball, as their miserable cabin afforded but one bunk
or pallet for sleeping; and had there been many such, she would have
preferred sitting up all night to occupying one like it.

They very politely offered her the bed, if she would use it; but civilly declining, she waited
for morning with an eagerness of desire she never felt before on
the subject, and was never more happy than when the eye of day shed its
golden light once more over the earth. She was once more free, and while
daylight should last, independent, and needed no invitation to pursue
her journey. Let these facts teach us, that every pedestrian in the
world is not a vagabond, and that it is a dangerous thing to compel
any one to receive that hospitality from the vicious and abandoned
which they should have received from us,-as thousands can testify, who
have thus been caught in the snares of the wicked. The fourth of July,
Isabella arrived at Huntingdon; from thence she went to Cold Springs,
where she found the people making preparations for a mass temperance-meeting.

With her usual alacrity, she entered into their labors, getting up
dishes a la New York, greatly to the satisfaction of those she assisted.

After remaining at Cold Springs some three weeks, she returned to Huntingdon, where she took boat
for Connecticut.

Landing at Bridgeport, she again resumed her travels towards the north-east, lecturing some, and
working some, to get wherewith to pay tribute to Caesar, as she called it; and in this manner she
presently came to the city of New Haven, where she found many meetings, which she attended-at
some of which, she was allowed to express her views freely, and without reservation. She also called
meetings expressly to give herself an opportunity to be heard; and found in the city many
true friends of Jesus, as she judged, with whom she held communion of spirit, having no preference
for one sect more than another, but being well satisfied with all who gave her evidence of having
known or loved the Saviour. After thus delivering her testimony in this pleasant city, feeling she had
not as yet found an abiding place, she went from thence to Bristol, at the
request of a zealous sister, who desired her to go to the latter
place, and hold a religious conversation with some friends of hers
there.

She went as requested, found the people kindly and religiously disposed,
and through them she became acquainted with several very interesting
persons.

A spiritually-minded brother in Bristol, becoming interested in her new views and original opinions,
requested as a favor that she would go to Hartford, to see and converse with friends of his there.
Standing ready to perform any service in the Lord, she went to Hartford as desired, bearing
in her hand the following note from this brother:-'SISTER,-I send
you this living messenger, as I believe her to be one that God loves.

Ethiopia is stretching forth her hands unto God. You can see by this sister, that God does
by his Spirit alone teach his own children things to come. Please receive her, and she will tell
you some new things. Let her tell her story without interrupting her, and give close attention,
and you will see she has got the lever of truth, that God helps her to pry where but few can.
She cannot read or write, but the law is in her heart.'Send her to brother-, brother-, and where
she can do the most good.'From your brother, H. L. B.'SOME OF HER VIEWS AND REASONINGS. As soon
as Isabella saw God as an all-powerful, all-pervading spirit, she became desirous of hearing all that had
been written of him, and listened to the account of the creation
of the world and its first inhabitants, as contained in the first
chapters of Genesis, with peculiar interest.

For some time she received it all literally, though it appeared strange to her that'God worked
by the day, got tired, and stopped to rest,'& c. But after a little time, she began to reason upon it, thus-'Why,
if God works by the day, and one day's work tires him, and he is obliged to rest, either from weariness
or on account of darkness, or if he waited for the "cool of the day to walk in the garden,"
because he was inconvenienced by the heat of the sun, why then it seems that God cannot do as much as I can;
for I can bear the sun at noon, and work several days and nights in succession without being
much tired.

Or, if he rested nights because of the darkness, it is very queer that he should make the night
so dark that he could not see himself. If I had been God, I would have made the night light enough
for my own convenience, surely.'But the moment she placed this idea
of God by the side of the impression she had once so suddenly received
of his inconceivable greatness and entire spirituality, that moment
she exclaimed mentally,'No, God does not stop to rest, for he is a
spirit, and cannot tire; he cannot want for light, for he hath all
light in himself.

And if "God is all in all," and "worketh all in all," as I have heard them read, then it is impossible
he should rest at all; for if he did, every other thing would stop and rest too; the waters would
not flow, and the fishes could not swim; and all motion must cease. God could have no pauses
in his work, and he needed no Sabbaths of rest. Man might need them, and he should take them
when he needed them, whenever he required rest. But outside she did
not run straight through the passage-way as she usually did in similar cases, but went to the
kitchen door and peeped in, and when she saw 'Lizebeth at the sink, where the latter was scraping
her pans, she went in very close to the old woman and said somewhat mysteriously: "'Lizebeth,
does Edi or Ritz perhaps have a torn mattress on their bed?"

'Lizebeth stopped scraping and turned round. She looked at Sally from head to foot, put her
hands on her hips and said very slowly and importantly: "May I ask what you mean by that question,
Sally? Do you think this household is so carried on that one lies about on ragged mattresses
and sleeps, until a little one, who is far from old enough to turn a mattress, thinks of coming
to ask 'does not this one or that one have a ragged mattress' on his bed? Yes, Sally, what
cobwebs you do have in your head."

"I do not care about the mattress, it is on account of Marianne that I ask," Sally explained.
"Do you know, she now has some new people in her house and I should so much like to see them,
and therefore I wanted so much to know whether you could not sacrifice a mattress so that Marianne
could pull the horsehair for a mattress, for Mother will not let me go into the house without
a good excuse."

"Oh, so! that is different," said 'Lizebeth quite mildly, for she had also been wondering what
kind of people her old friend had taken into her home, and now, perhaps, she could learn something
about them through Sally.

"I can help you, Sally," she said. "You go to Marianne and tell her that I send my greetings,
and I have long since intended to come and see her, but the likes of us cannot get away when
we want to; we never know what may happen if we are out of the house for five minutes; but
tell her that I will surely come some fine Sunday. Now then go, and give my message."

Sally ran with a joyous heart, first through the garden, then away over the meadow and down
the hill as far as the fir wood, where the dry road lay for a long stretch in the shade. Here
Sally slackened her pace a little. It was so beautiful to walk along in shade of the trees,
where above in their tops the wind rustled so delightfully and all the birds sang in confusion.
She also had to consider how she would arrange her calls, whether she would go first to Kaetheli
or to Marianne; but this time old Marianne had a stronger attraction than Kaetheli and Sally
felt that she must go there first and give her message. Now her thoughts fell on the strange
people and she had to imagine how they looked and what she was going to say, and what they
would say when she knocked and asked for Marianne. Thus she thought everything well out, for
Sally had a great power of imagining things.

In this way she came to the first houses of Middle Lot. She turned away from the road and went
toward Marianne's house, which stood a little way from the road and lay almost hidden behind
a hedge. As Sally had been accustomed to do, she now ran right into the house, although the
house door was also the kitchen door. After entering the front door she stood in the small
kitchen and was at once before another door which led into the living-room. This door stood
wide open and Sally found herself suddenly in the presence of a lady dressed in black, who
sat in that room sewing and who lifted her head at Sally's noisy entrance, and with large sad
eyes she looked at the child in silence.

Sally grew as red as fire and in her embarrassment remained standing near the door like one
rooted to the floor.

Now the lady held out her hand and said in a friendly tone, "Come here, dear child, what brings
you to me?"

Sally was quite confused. She did not remember why she had come, for she had really not come
to see Marianne. She had invented that--to get into the house where she had arrived now so
unexpectedly. She approached the lady and wanted to say something, but nothing came out. Sally
grew crimson and stood there more helpless than ever before in her life.

The lady took the child's hand and stroked her glowing cheeks.

"Come, sit down beside me, dear child," she then said, with a voice so sweet that it went deep
into Sally's heart. "Come, we shall come gradually to know each other a little."

Now there came from out of a corner a quick noise of moving; Sally did not know what it was,
for until now she had not dared to look around the room, but now she looked up.

A boy, a little taller than she, was carrying a small easy chair and placed it before Sally.
He looked at her with such a merry face as the restrained laughter came so visibly out of his
eyes, that the sight brought a complete reversion in Sally's feelings, and she, all at once,
laughed right out; upon which, the boy too, relieved his feelings by a bright peal of laughter,
for the rushing in and then the confusion of the unexpected guest had long since tempted him
to laugh; but he was too well trained to dare to break out.

"Well, my child," said the mother with that winning voice, "and what has brought you to me?"

"I have--I ought to--I wanted," Sally began hesitatingly, "I wanted to give a message to Marianne--"
Sally could not stop at half the truth. The sad, friendly eyes of the lady were penetratingly
resting on hers, so everything had to come out as it was.

"That is lovely and friendly of you, that you want to see us, dear little girl. How did you
hear of us?" asked the lady, and took off Sally's straw hat, while she put the question to
the child. She placed the hat on the table and smoothed her hair with a mother's touch.

Now Sally related all in full confidence how it had happened, and that she and her two brothers
had wanted to come yesterday to find out who was coming to live with Marianne, and to find
out how the piano and all the other things could find room in the little house. Sally now,
for the first time, looked around the room and she had to wonder a little, for she saw only
the piano and four bare walls, and then there were the two easy chairs on which she and the
lady were sitting, and the small table. She knew that besides this room there was a very small
bedroom, where two beds could hardly find room. Sally could not set herself to rights; all
was so different from what she had imagined. She had expected to see strange and foreign things
standing about everywhere and now she saw nothing besides an old piano. And yet the lady who
sat before her in a black silken dress looked more aristocratic than Sally could ever have
imagined; and the boy in his velvet suit looked quite like the old knights in Edi's beautiful
picture book, and he had brought her a seat without anyone telling him, and was more refined
and courteous than she had ever before seen a boy.

When Sally turned her surprised eyes again to the lady, she saw such a painful expression in
her face that it came involuntarily into her mind how the mother had said, that of course "she
would not go there for the sake of staring at the people," and she felt that she was doing
something very much like it. Sally rose. All at once she remembered to whom she really wanted
to go, so she said hastily: "I must go to Kaetheli; she may be sick." With these words she
quickly offered her hand to the lady.

The lady, too, had risen; she took the proffered hand, held it between both of hers, and looked
once more so lovingly into the child's eyes, that her little heart was moved. Then she kissed
her forehead and said: "You dear child, you were a friendly picture in our quiet room."

Then she let go of her hand, and Sally went through the open door into the small kitchen. The
boy, meanwhile, had opened the house door and now he stood outside quite courteously, like
a doorkeeper, to bid Sally good-bye.

"Are you not coming to school tomorrow?"

"Yes, indeed," was the answer.

That pleased Sally very much and she at once decided that he must become Edi's friend, for
she had taken a great liking to the boy and when he was Edi's friend then he would be hers
too, and he must come every Sunday afternoon and spend it with them and they would teach him
all kinds of games; and many undertakings passed through her brain, for with this friend everything
could be carried out; he was so entirely different from other boys and girls in the school.
"Then you are coming to-morrow?" she asked with happy expectation.

"Where shall I come?" he questioned in return.

"To school, of course."

"Yes, indeed, I'll come to school."

"Well, then, good-bye," said Sally, giving her hand, "but I do not know your name."

"Erick--and yours?"

"Sally."

Now they shook hands, and Erick remained standing in the doorway until Sally had turned round
the hedge, then he shut the door and Sally ran toward the house of the Justice of Peace. Before
she reached it, old Marianne met her, panting under the large bundle of horsehair which she
was carrying on her head. Sally was delighted to see her, for she had just remembered that
she had not given 'Lizebeth's message. She rushed so quickly toward the old woman and with
such force, that the latter went back some steps and almost lost her balance, and Sally cried
out: "Marianne, you have such nice people in your rooms. Do you talk much with them? Do you
cook for them? Do you buy the things they need? Have they no maid? Do you make their beds?"

"Gently, gently," said Marianne, who had recovered her balance, "else I lose my breath. But
tell me, how did you get into the people's room? I hope you know how I am to be found."

Sally told her that she, for the shorter way, had not gone round the house, where, in the woodshed,
a narrow stair went up to Marianne's small room; but that she had wanted to run in the front
way, through the kitchen, and out the back door; but that she had stood suddenly before the
open door of the room and under the eyes of the lady.

"You must never do that again," Marianne interrupted Sally, raising her finger warningly. "Do
you hear that, Sally? Never do that again. They are not people into whose home you can rush,
as if they were living on the highway."

"But the lady was quite friendly, Marianne," soothed Sally, "she was not at all offended."

"That makes no difference, she is always so, she could not be otherwise, and just on that account,
and on account of many other things, do you hear, Sally? Promise that you never again go that
way when you want to come to me. Will you promise?"

"Yes, indeed I will. I do not intend to do it again. Good night, Marianne! Now I have forgotten
the main thing: 'Lizebeth sends her greetings and she will come to see you on a fine Sunday."

The last words came from some distance, for Sally had already started on a run while she gave
the message, and when Marianne wanted to send her greetings, Sally was already far away. After
a few more jumps Sally arrived at the house of the Justice of Peace, in front of which stood
a large apple tree which shaded the stone well. Here stood Kaetheli who did not look sick at
all, but splashed with two fat, red arms about the water in which she seemed to clean some
object eagerly.

"Then you are not sick. Why didn't you come to school then?" Sally called out when she saw her.

"Oh, it is you? Good evening! I could not make out who was jumping about, and I hadn't the
time to look," Kaetheli said with some importance. "That is also the reason why I did not go
to school. I hadn't the time, for Mother has gone away today to see sick Grandmother, and then
we got young chickens, twelve quite small ones, and that is why I have to wash a stocking,
for I have run after the chicks everywhere and near the barn I stepped in the dirt quite deep.
But come, I will show you the chickens. Never mind if I have only one stocking on."

But Sally had only very little time left and besides, her head was full of quite different
things and she wanted to hear Kaetheli tell of something else than the new chickens, so she
said quite decisively: "No, Kaetheli, I haven't time enough to see the chickens. I only wanted
to know whether you were ill and I want to tell you something. I have seen the strange lady
and the boy whom you know. He does look nice. Do you know his name?"

"He?" said Kaetheli, shrugging her shoulders. "Of course I know. His name is Erick and just
think, he goes to school at Lower Wood; I have seen him myself today, with his school sack,
going there."

That was a blow for Sally. He went to school at Lower Wood. What was now to come of her beautiful
plans? Of all the planned Sundays which were to be so full of joy and delight, and the whole
friendship with the prepossessing Erick? For how could Edi ever be brought to making friends
with a fellow who went to Lower Wood to school, when he just as well might have gone to Upper
Wood? Sally was very downcast, but she did not easily give up a pleasant intention. On the
way home she wanted to think what could be done, therefore she stretched out her hand to the
astonished Kaetheli, and this time the invitation, to at least come into the room and eat a
piece of bread and butter, was not accepted; nor would she go with Kaetheli behind the barn
where they could fetch down ripe cherries from the large cherry tree--it was all of no use.

"Another time, Kaetheli, it is already so late I must go home," and Sally ran away. Kaetheli
stood there much surprised and looked after her, and in her bright mind she thought: "Sally
has something new in her head, else I could have brought her to the cherry tree, for she is
not always so anxious to go home; but I will find out what it is."

Meanwhile Sally ran for a long stretch, then she began to walk slower, for she had to think
over so many things and she was so lost in her plans that she forgot when she arrived at the
garden which stretched from her home far into the meadows. Ritz stood on the low wall and beckoned
with wild gestures, for Sally had not seen him at first.

"Do come a little quicker so that you can tell something, else we will have to go to bed, for
Auntie has already looked twice at her watch. Were you in the barn at Kaetheli's? How many
cows are in it? Have you seen the young goat?"

But Sally had different things in her head. She hastily stepped into the house, while Ritz
followed. The rest of the family were in the living-room. Mother and Auntie were mending stockings;
Father was reading a large church paper. Edi, his head supported on both hands, sat lost in
his history book. Sally had hardly opened the door when she cried out with much excitement:
"Oh, Mother, you ought to have seen how friendly the lady was, and she is so beautiful and
so gentle and so good, and quite an aristocratic lady; and Erick in his velvet suit is like
a knight, and so fine and polite. Edi could not find a nicer friend."

They all looked surprised at Sally, and a pause followed this outburst. Sally had quite forgotten
that she was not to go to the strange people, and that she had given, as the object of her
walk, the call on Kaetheli. She now remembered everything and she grew very red.

"But, dear child," said the mother, "did you really, in spite of opposition from me, press
into the home of the strange people? How could you enter the house without an excuse?"

"Not without an excuse, Mamma," said Sally, somewhat embarrassed. "'Lizebeth had given me a
message for old Marianne."

"Which the inquisitive Sally fetched in the kitchen for the purpose of carrying out her plan,
that is clear," remarked Auntie. When the whole truth lay open to the light of day, Sally felt
relieved and she returned with new zeal to her communication. She had much to describe: the
empty room and the silk dress of the lady, and her sad glances, and then the knightly Erick
with his joyous laughter and the merry eyes; but she could not describe it all so attractively
as it seemed to her.

"So," said Edi, looking up from his book, "now you have another friend. It will go, no doubt,
with him as with little Leopold!" After giving her this fling he bent again over his book and
read on, taking no notice of anything.

Sally did not find the desired sympathy. She was so full of her impressions that she felt Mother
and Aunt should be all afire and aflame for her new friendship. Instead of that, the two kept
on mending the stockings; Father did not even look up from his paper and Edi had only a satirical
remark for sympathy. Sally had rather a bad reputation for making friendships. Almost every
week she saw some one who appealed to her so much, that she must make a friendship at once;
but the friendships were mostly of short duration, for she had imagined something else than
she often found on looking closer. This made her quite unhappy at the time, but the next week
she had already found some one else who filled her thoughts.

The last unfortunate friendship had brought forth Edi's satire to a greater degree. The tailor
of Upper Wood had three sons, and since the father on his wanderings had spent some time in
Vienna he gave his sons, in remembrance of the beautiful days which he spent there, the names
of three Austrian grand dukes. BAIT.

Cod, hake, and halibut heads are quite generally used as bait. Halibut heads are said to be the best,
as they are tougher than the cod or hake heads, and thus last much longer. Sculpins, flounders,
in fact almost any kind of fish, can be used. In the vicinity of sardine canneries the heads
of herring are used. Sometimes the bait is slightly salted, at other times it is used fresh.
Small herring are lightly salted, and then allowed to remain until partly decayed, when they
are inclosed in small bags, and these put into the pots. The oil from this bait forms a "slick"
in the water, and when the smell from it is strong the fishermen consider it at its best. The
bait is generally secured by small haul-seines and spears in sections where offal can not be
bought.

FISHING VESSELS AND BOATS.

The fishing vessels are either sloop or schooner rigged, with an average
net tonnage of slightly over 8 tons (new measurement) and an average
value of about$ 475.

There has been a great increase in the number of these vessels during recent years. Eight
vessels were used in 1880, 29 in 1889, and 130 in 1898. Quite a number of these vessels are used
in other fisheries during their seasons. Two men usually form a crew, although three, and sometimes
four, are occasionally used.

The other vessels comprise sailboats under 5 tons and rowboats. The sailboats are generally small square-sterned
sloops, open in the afterpart, but with a cuddy forward. They are all built with centerboards,
and some are lapstreak while others are "set work."

Around the afterpart of the standing room is a seat, the ballast is floored over, and two little
bunks and a stove generally help to furnish the cuddy. They vary in length from 16 to 26 feet and
in width from 6 to 9 feet; they average about 2 tons. They are especially adapted to the winter
fishery, as they are good sailers and ride out the storms easily.

Dories are in quite general use in the lobster fishery, as are also
the double-enders, or peapods.

This latter is a small canoe-shaped boat of an average length of 15-1/ 2 feet, 4-1/ 2 feet breadth,
and 1-1/ 2 feet depth. They are mainly built lapstreak, but a few
are "set work."

Both ends are exactly alike; the sides are rounded and the bottom is flat, being, however,
only 4 or 5 inches wide in the center and tapering toward each end,
at the same time bending slightly upward, so as to make the boat shallower
at the ends than in the middle.

This kind of bottom is called a "rocker bottom." They are usually rowed, but are sometimes furnished
with a sprit sail and centerboard.

TRANSPORTING VESSELS OR SMACKS.

Even before the lobster fishery had been taken up to any extent, the coast of Maine was visited by well-smacks
from Connecticut and New York, most of which had been engaged in the transportation of live fish
before engaging in the carrying of lobsters. These vessels sometimes carried pots, and caught
their own lobsters; but as this method was not very convenient, the
people living along the coast took up the fishery, and sold the lobsters
to the smackmen.

About 1860 the canneries began to absorb a considerable part of the catch, and they employed
vessels to ply along the coast and buy lobsters. As these vessels would only be out a few days
at a time, wells were not necessary, and the lobsters were packed in the hold. In the summer
great numbers of them were killed by the heat in the hold.

After 1885 the canneries rapidly dropped out of the business, the last one closing in 1895.
In 1853 there were but 6 smacks, 4 of them from New London, Conn. In 1880 there were 58, of
which 21 were dry smacks, while in 1898 there were 76, of which 17 were steamers and launches
and 59 sailing vessels. These were all well-smacks.

A few sailing smacks also engaged in other fishery pursuits during
the dull summer months.

In 1879 a steamer which had no well was used to run lobsters to the
cannery at Castine.

The first steamer fitted with a well to engage in the business was the Grace Morgan, owned
by Mr. F. W. Collins, a lobster dealer of Rockland, who describes
the steamer as follows: The steam and well smack Grace Morgan was
built in 1890, by Robert Palmer& Son, of Noank, Conn. At that time
she was a dry boat, but the following year, 1891, the Palmers built
a small well in her as an experiment, but I am of the opinion that
it did not prove very satisfactory or profitable; consequently they
offered her for sale and wrote to me in relation to buying her.

I went to Noank and looked her over and came to the conclusion that by enlarging the well and making
other needed changes she could be made not only a good boat to carry
lobsters alive, but also to do it profitably; consequently I bought
her and brought her to Rockland, had the well enlarged on ideas of my own,
and differently constructed, so as to give it better circulation
of water, and also made other needed improvements throughout the boat
to adapt her especially for carrying lobsters alive.

The changes I made in her proved so successful in keeping lobsters alive, while it increased the capacity
for carrying, that I have since adapted the same principles on all my boats. The well I had put
into the Grace Morgan is what is termed a "box well," that is, without any well deck. The well is
built from the sides of the steamer directly to the hatch on the main deck, with bulkheads forward
and aft and tops running directly to the deck.... You will see at once that this well has many advantages
over the old style with flat well decks, like those of sailing vessels:
(1) It affords a much larger carrying capacity in same space of vessel.

(2) The priming-out pieces are much higher up on sides of vessel, giving
more room for boring hull, which affords much better circulation of water
in well, which is a great advantage in keeping lobsters alive while
on long trips.

(3) Every lobster can be easily bailed out of the well without grounding the vessel, which is
necessary with all vessels having the old-style well. (4) In all steam and well smacks the after
part of the ship is always steadiest, consequently the well being located aft, as in my smacks,
the lobsters contained in them are not subjected to the hard pounding while running in seaway
that they are in the old-style wells, where there is no chance to relieve themselves other than to
be forced against the well decks by the upward force of the water when the vessel settles into the
sea, and which results in killing many of them. Both of my steamers have box wells aft, and from
my experience, compared with all other steam and well smacks afloat, I am convinced that this
well, for all practical purposes, is the best that has yet been adapted to steam smacks. So
far as the Grace Morgan is concerned, she has been a perfect success in carrying her lobsters
in all kinds of weather since I put her into commission October 27, 1892, during which time she
has had a wonderful career, as well as carrying millions of lobsters. Probably no boat of her
size has ever had such an experience, as she has run steadily the year around in all kinds of weather
during the past eight years.... Previous to buying the Grace Morgan
I had run steamers in the lobster business, but they had no well,
and being so hot in their holds, particularly in the summer months,
the lobsters died so fast that the business in dry steamers could
not be made profitable.

This
is what prompted me to construct a well in mine, as I have done. The Grace Morgan has a length
of 49 feet, a breadth of 13.9 feet, and a depth of 5.7 feet, a gross
tonnage of 21 tons, and a net tonnage of 10 tons.

The steam smacks now used average about 14 tons. They are usually built low in the water, and have
a small pilot-house forward, with an open space between it and the engine-house, and living
quarters aft. The boat has also one or two short masts. Some of them also have the pilot-house and
engine-house joined together. In those with a space between the pilot-house and engine-house
the well is usually placed in this open space. Where the pilot-house and engine-house are together the
well is either located forward or aft. These wells are generally capable of bolding from 3,000 to 10,000
live lobsters. Small holes in the bottom of the well keep it filled with fresh sea water. Should the weather
be clear the proportion of dead and injured lobsters will be small,
but in bad weather many are apt to be killed by the pitching and rolling
to which they are subjected.

These smacks make regular trips up and down the coast, landing their
cargoes either at Rockland, Portland, or at one of the lobster pounds
scattered along the coast.

They not only stop at the villages, but also drop anchor off the
little camps of the lobstermen, and should the smacks of two rival
dealers arrive at a place simultaneously, which frequently happens,
the bidding between the captains for the fishermen's catch gladdens
the latter's heart and greatly enriches his pocketbook.

Most of the captains have regular places of call where they know the fishermen are holding
their lobsters for them, and they follow a rude sort of schedule, which will not often vary
more than a day or two. The lobsters are bought of the fishermen by count, and cash is paid for
them. Should the smack belong to a dealer this practically ends the
financial side of the transaction so far as the captain is concerned,
as the crew are paid wages.

Should the smack belong to a person other than the dealer, which is frequently the case, he either
makes an agreement with some dealer to run for him exclusively at a certain price or commission,
or else buys from the fishermen and then sells at either Rockland
or Portland.

This method of buying lobsters is somewhat hazardous, as the market price sometimes changes sharply
when the smack is out of reach of telegraphic communication. LOBSTER
CARS.

Lobsters
must be marketed in a live or boiled condition; and as fishermen can get better prices for them alive
than boiled, each fisherman generally has a live-car in which to hold them until they can be sold.
These cars are usually oblong, rectangular boxes, with open seams or numerous small holes to permit
the free circulation of the water. They are of various sizes, according
to the needs of the fisherman, a good average being about 6 feet long
by 4 feet wide and about 2 feet deep. The door is placed on the top.

They are usually moored close to the shore during the fishing season, the rest of the time being
hauled up on the beach. The dealers cars are very similar to those used by the fishermen,
only much larger. They generally average about 30 feet in length, 12 feet in width; and 3
feet in depth, with capacity for from 2,000 to 3,000 lobsters.

The inner part of this car is usually divided off into five transverse compartments by means of
a framework inside. Each compartment is provided with two large doors entering from the top,
one door on each side of the middle line of the car. These cars cost the dealers about$ 70 each.
The life of one of these cars is about five or six years, although at the end of about three years
it is generally necessary to replace the sides of the car on account
of the ravages of a dock worm which is quite abundant along the Maine
coast.

When new the top of the car is usually about a foot above the water, but as it gets water-soaked
it sinks down until it is even with the water, and some of the older
cars have to be buoyed up with kegs at each end, placed inside, to
prevent them from sinking below the surface.

These cars are moored alongside the docks of the dealers at Portland
and Rockland and other points.

Mr. J. R. Burns, of Friendship, has invented and patented a new style of car. The inside is divided
into a series of compartments by horizontal and vertical partitions of slats, wire netting, or
any material which will permit the free circulation of the water. Each compartment has a chute
extending down into it from the top, by means of which the lobsters can be put in and their food
given them. There are also conveniently arranged openings, with
doors, through which the lobsters may be removed when desired.

These cars usually average about 35 feet in length, 18 feet in width, and 6 feet in depth, and
have a capacity for about 5,000 lobsters each.

They are in use at Rockland, Friendship, Tremont, and Jonesport. They prevent the lobsters from huddling
together and thus killing each other by their own weight. METHODS OF SHIPPING, WHOLESALE TRADE,
ETC. As lobsters can not be shipped or preserved in a frozen state they must be shipped either
alive or boiled. About nine-tenths of the lobsters caught in Maine waters are shipped in the live
state. The principal shipping centers are Portland, Rockland, and Eastport, which have good railroad
and steamship facilities with points outside of the State. Those shipped from the latter point
are mainly from the British Provinces, the fishermen near Eastport bringing them in in their own boats.
A number also come in from the Provinces on the regular steamship lines. The other places get
their supply from the smacks and also from the fishermen in their
vicinity, who run in their own catch. Portland is very favorably situated
in this regard, as Casco Bay is a noted fishing center for lobsters.
As soon as a smack arrives it is moored directly alongside one of
the cars.

The lobsters are then dipped out of the well by means of long-handled scoop nets and thrown
on the deck of the vessel.

The doors of the car are then opened, and men on the vessel pick over the lobsters lying on
the deck and toss them two by two into the different compartments,
those dead and badly mutilated being thrown to one side for the time
being.

All vigorous lobsters above a certain size are placed in compartments of the car by themselves,
while the weak and small are put in separate compartments. The dead lobsters and those which have had
their shells broken or have been so injured that they are very sure
to die are either thrown overboard or on the dump.

A lobster which has lost one or even both claws is not thrown away, as such an injury would have
very little effect on its health. When an order is received for live lobsters, those which have
been longest in the cars are usually shipped. Flour barrels holding about 140 pounds or sugar
barrels holding about 185 pounds, with small holes bored in the bottoms
for drainage, are used for the shipment.

Formerly the lobsters were packed close together in the barrel, and
a large piece of ice was put in at the top, but this was found to
kill a number of them.

The present method is to split off about one-third of a 100-pound
cake of ice the long way, and place it upright about half way of
the length of the barrel, the lobsters then being packed snugly on
all sides of the ice.

In handling them the packer seizes the lobster by the carapace with his right hand, bends the
tail up under the body with his left hand, and quickly deposits it in the barrel. The packer
usually has his right hand covered with a woolen mitt or wrapped in a long piece of linen, for
protection from the claws of the lobster. When the barrel is nearly full the lobsters are covered
with a little seaweed or large-leaved marine plants, and the rest of the space is filled with cracked
ice. The top is then covered with a piece of sacking, which is secured
under the upper hoop of the barrel.

Packed in this way, lobsters have easily survived a trip as far west as St. Louis. Owing to the
high prices realized in England for live lobsters, attempts have
been made to ship live American lobsters to that market, generally
from Canadian ports.

In 1877 Messrs. John Marston& Sons, of Portland, made a trial shipment of 250. They were placed
in a large tank 20 feet long by 8 feet wide and 3 feet deep, and constantly supplied with fresh seawater
through six faucets by means of a donkey engine, a waste-pipe preventing any overflow. The
trip was fairly successful, as only 50 died, and the balance brought from 60 to 75 cents per pound.
The smacks and dealers buy lobsters by count, as the fishermen generally have no facilities
for weighing them; but the dealers always sell by weight. The mortality
among the lobsters from the time they are put aboard the smacks until
they are barreled for shipment is estimated at about 5 per cent.
BOILING.

Live lobsters are much preferred by the trade throughout the country, and only those that can not
be marketed in such condition are boiled.

The number boiled fluctuates considerably, owing to the condition of the markets. When the
fresh markets of Boston and New York are overstocked, the lobster
dealers of Rockland and Portland, where most of the Maine lobsters
are boiled, proceed to boil their surplus stock.

The following description of the boiling is from The Fisheries and Fishery Industries of the United
States, section v, vol. II, p. 684: The boilers are rectangular wooden tanks or vats of about 60
gallons capacity, lined with zinc and furnished with a cover. Heat is applied by the introduction
of steam through a series of perforated pipes arranged in the bottom of the tank. The steam is
generated in an ordinary boiler standing close at hand. The lobsters are not thrown directly into
the vat, as the operation of removing them after cooking would in
such an event be an exceedingly tedious one; but an iron framework basket,
of rather slender bars is made to fit the tank loosely, and is lowered
and raised by means of a small derrick placed over the tank.

This frame, which holds about 300 pounds, is filled with lobsters at the edge of the wharf from
the floating cars, and is then carried to the tank and lowered into
it after the water it contains has reached the desired temperature,
that of boiling.

The water is first supplied to the tank, which is filled to about one-third or two-thirds its
capacity, about a peck of salt is added, and then the steam is turned
on.

The same water suffices for several successive boilings, about 2 quarts
of salt being added each time. The lobsters are allowed to remain in
about half an hour, or until the proper red color indicates they
are sufficiently cooked.

After cooling, they are packed in barrels for shipment, just as live lobsters are. When well
iced they will keep a week or longer. Only live lobsters are boiled,
as the meat of those which die prior to boiling deteriorates rapidly.

The fishermen and small dealers use various kinds of boilers, from an ordinary washboiler to a
smaller form of the regular boiler used by the large dealers.

The product prepared by these people is generally picked from the shell
and sold locally in that condition.

This opens a way for the fisherman to evade the 10-1/ 2 inch limit
law. They frequently take lobsters under the minimum legal size and,
after boiling them, pick the flesh.

It is then impossible for anybody to tell what sized lobster the meat had
come from.

Quite a local trade in the picking of lobsters has been established in a number of small coast
towns, the meat generally being sold in the immediate vicinity. The following table shows the extent
of the wholesale lobster trade in Rockland and Portland during 1898, including everything connected
with the business except the smacks and pounds, which are shown elsewhere.

There are a few other dealers scattered along the coast, but most
of the business is concentrated at these cities.

An idea of the extent of the increase in the lobster trade of Portland can be gained when it
is stated that in 1880 about 1,900,000 pounds of lobsters, valued at$ 70,000, were handled here,
while 6,145,821 pounds, valued at$ 611,955, were handled in 1898. Extent of the wholesale lobster
trade of Rockland and Portland in 1898. Rockland Portland---------------- Value of property,
capital, and wages Property, etc$ 14,338$ 44,770 Cars 850 6,800 Cash
Capital 22,000 110,500 Wages 4,676 18,198 Number of persons engaged
Firms 2 10* Proprietors 3 13 Clerks 2 2 Other Employees 7 31 Rockland
Portland Lobsters bought----------------------------- and sold No.
Value No. Value------------------------------- Bought, No. 692,188
4,097,214 Bought, lbs.

1,038,282$ 89,984 6,145,821$ 611,955 Sold, lbs. 795,934 91,532 5,308,027
690,045 Sold, lbs.

347,815 26,705 515,518 82,483* Several of these firms also handle
other fishery products.

LOBSTER POUNDS For a number of years the catch of lobsters was sold by the fishermen to the dealers
and by the latter to the trade as rapidly as possible. In doing this the markets would be flooded at certain
times, when the price would drop to a very low figure, while at other times they would be very
scarce, which would enhance the price materially. The dealers were the first to see the necessity
for devising some method by which lobsters could be secured when they were plentiful and cheap
and retained in captivity until they became scarce and high in price: Inclosures of various
kinds had for some years been in use in the fisheries in various parts of the country for the purpose
of keeping certain species alive until the time came to utilize them. In 1875 Johnson& Young,
of Boston, established an inclosure or pound near Vinal Haven, on one of the Fox Islands. A
cove covering about 500 acres, with an average depth of about 90 feet, was selected. A section of
about 9 acres, separated from the main portion of the cove by a natural shoal and with a bottom of soft
grayish mud, was selected for the pound. In order to make it proof
against the efforts of the lobsters to escape and as a protection
from enemies without, a wire fence was built over the shoal part.

This section had a depth of from 15 to 60 feet, and a capacity of about 300,000, although there were
rarely that many in the pound at one time.

The lobsters are bought from smacks and from fishermen in the vicinity
during the height of the fishing season, when the price is low, and
are retained in the pound until the price becomes high, which is generally
during the winter season.

They are fed with fish offal, which can usually be bought at Vinal Haven for$ 1 per barrel. Oily fish
are not fed to them, as it is said that the lobsters decrease in
weight on such a diet.

Experience has shown that the quantity of food required depends largely on the temperature of the water,
as lobsters do not eat as freely when the water is cold as in water
of a higher temperature.

When wanted for shipment they are usually secured by means of pots, seines, or beam trawls.
Even with such a successful example before them, other dealers were chary about going into the business,
and in 1890 there were only three pounds in the whole State. They increased more rapidly
after that, however, and in 1898 there were nine pounds in the State, with a total valuation
of$ 18,700. These were located at Dyer Bay, Sunset, Vinal Haven, Long Island, South Bristol, Pemaquid
Beach, Southport, and House Island, in Portland Harbor.

It is very probable that there will be a greater increase in the near
future. THE CANNING INDUSTRY. Maine is the only State in the Union in
which lobsters have been canned.



"No, Marianne, I thank you, I know my condition," said the sick woman soothingly, "it is a
cramp in my heart, which often comes and this time more terribly than usual, and so, my good
Marianne, I wanted to tell you that if I am no longer here tomorrow, will you give this," (and
she gave a small paper to Marianne), "to him who has to prepare for my last resting-place.
It is the only thing that I leave, and which I have saved for a long time, so that I need not
be buried in a pauper's grave. That must not be, for my father's sake," she added, very softly.

"Dear, dear Lord!" Marianne lamented, "grant that it may not be that! Do think of the dear
little boy! Dear Mrs. Dorn, do not take it amiss, I have never before asked anything at all,
but if you leave nothing, what have I to do with the dear boy? Has he no relatives? Has he
no father?"

The mother looked at the sleeping Erick, who, with his golden curls encircling his rosy face,
lay there so peacefully and so carefree. She put her hand on his forehead--for his narrow bed
stood quite close to hers--and said softly: "On earth you have no father any more, my child,
but above in heaven there lives a Father who will not forsake you. I have given you long since
to Him. I know He will care for you and protect you, so I can go quietly and joyfully. Yes,
my good Marianne," she turned again to the latter, "I have done a great wrong; I have hurt
deeply the best of fathers through disobedience and selfishness. For that I have suffered much;
but in my suffering it was permitted me to learn how great the love and compassion of our Father
in heaven is for His children, and since then a song of deepest gratitude sounds ever and ever
in my heart:

    "'I lay in heaviest fetters,
     Thou com'st and set'st me free;
     I stood in shame and sorrow,
     Thou callest me to Thee;
     And lift'st me up to honor
     And giv'st me heavenly joys
     Which cannot be diminished
     By earthly scorn and noise.'"

The sick woman had folded her hands while she spoke, and in her eyes there was a wonderful
light; but now she sank back on her pillows, exhausted and pale. Marianne stood there quietly
and now and then had to wipe her eyes.

"But now I must run to the doctor,--it is high time," she said, frightened. "Mrs. Dorn, can
I give you anything?"

"No, I thank you," the sick woman answered softly. "I thank you for everything, my good Marianne."

The latter now hastily left the house and ran as fast as she could through the silent night
toward Lower Wood. From time to time she had to stop to get her breath. Then she looked up
to the bright star-covered sky and prayed: "Dear God, help us all." She had great difficulty
in awakening the doctor in Lower Wood at two o'clock in the night; but at last he heard her
knocking and followed her soon after on the road to her house. When they entered together the
room of the sick woman, the light had burned down and threw a faint light on the quiet, pale
face. The mother had stretched out her arm upon the bed of her child. The boy had encircled
her slender, white hand with both his plump hands, and held it firmly. The doctor approached
and looked closer at the sleeper; he bent over her for some moments.

"Marianne," he said, "loosen the hand out of the little boy's. The woman is sleeping her eternal
sleep, she will nevermore awaken on this earth. She must have died suddenly from heart failure,
while you were away to fetch me."

The doctor left the quiet house at once, and Marianne did as he had told her. She folded the
hands of the departed one on her breast, then she sat down on Erick's bed, looking now at the
serious face of the dead mother, now at the care-free sleeping boy, and wept quietly, until
the rays of the morning sun fell into the quiet room and roused Marianne to the consciousness
that a new, sad day had begun--a day on which Erick had to be told that he never again on this
earth could take hold of the loving hand of his mother.

CHAPTER V

Disturbance in School and Home

Never before had the schoolmaster of Upper Wood had such hard work with his schoolchildren
as on the morning after this night. Of course there were times that some were more restless
and more dense than usual; but there were usually a good many with whom he could work successfully.
But today it seemed as though a crowd of excited spirits had taken possession of the children.
All the boys cast uncanny, warlike glances at each other, even suppressed threatenings were
thrust hither and thither, and when the teacher turned his back such threatening gestures were
made to those who faced him, that they, one and all, rolled their eyes with wrath and gave
the most ridiculous answers. In 1879, Captain Davis bought from 15 men In the same locality, and
at times was obliged to buy also of others in order to make up a
load.

The fishery at North Haven began in 1848, but did not increase so rapidly at first as in sections
farther west, as the smacks would only take the medium-sized lobsters, fearing that the largest
would not be able to stand the trip. At Matinicus Island the fishing began in 1868. In 1852 the
people on Deer Island began the fishery, and as the smackmen made frequent visits the business rapidly
increased. The establishment of a cannery at Oceanville, about 1860, also caused a considerable
development of the fishery. The fishery was started at Isle an Haute about 1855, and at Swan
Island in the early fifties.

The canning of lobsters was first carried on at Eastport in 1842,
but the fishery was not taken up until about 1853, as it was supposed
there were no lobsters in the neighborhood.

The supplies for these canneries previous to the inception of the fishery were obtained by smacks
running to the westward.

For some years the fishery was only prosecuted in the late spring,
summer, and early fall months.

Just when winter fishing began in the State is doubtful; but according to Capt. Charles Black,
of Orr Island, it began in that region in 1845 at Harpswell. Previously the fishermen had the
impression that lobsters could not be successfully caught earlier
than March 20.

During the summer of 1845 the captains of the well-smacks of New London, Conn., who bought
most of the lobsters in that vicinity, induced Charles E. Clay, Samuel
Orr, and a few others to fish during the winter, and they set their
traps about the same distance from the shore that the fishermen do
at present, and in almost the same depth of water.

The smackmen paid them$ 4 for 100 lobsters. The next winter the fishermen refused to sell by
number and wanted$ 1.25 per 100 pounds. The smackmen had no objection to buy them by weight, but
refused to pay more than$ 1.12 per 100 pounds. This was accepted, and for several years the
prices were from$ 1.12 to$ 1.25 per 100 pounds.

Comparatively few traps were necessary then, as when the weather would permit the fishermen to
tend their traps they would catch from 20 to 30 lobsters daily, and frequently, when the traps
were hauled, they would find several lobsters clinging to some part of the pots. The bait was
very plentiful and caught with spears.

The lobsters were placed in cars at that time, after having been "plugged"
to keep them from injuring each other.

The plugs were almost 1-1/ 2 inches long, flat on one side, round on the other, and with a sharp
point. Plugging has since been discontinued, as the trifling injury the lobsters did each other
was nothing compared to the value of cans of meat spoiled by one of these pine plugs being boiled
with it.

THE FISHING-GROUNDS.

It is difficult to estimate the comparative value of the grounds in the State, owing to the movements
of the lobsters. In the early spring, in April or May, as the waters in the bays and rivers
warm up, the lobsters come into the comparatively shallow waters.

They remain here until late in the fall, going back to the ocean or deep waters of the bays
in either October or November. They love to congregate on rocky bottom, and pots set on such bottom
will frequently make large catches, while those on sandy or muddy ground will catch almost nothing.
In the early years of the fishery they came in very close in great
numbers, and could frequently be taken at low water in dip nets or
by gaffs; but they are now found in summer in depths of from 3 to
15 fathoms in the numerous passages between the islands and the mainland,
and the lower reaches of the bays and rivers.

For a number of years winter fishing was not prosecuted, but now it is a very important business.
In winter the pots are generally set in the ocean at depths of from
15 to 50 fathoms.

As the greatest part of the coast line is cut up by numerous bays
and rivers, and these are dotted with large and small islands, they
form admirable breeding grounds for the lobster.

Some of the best locations are in Little Machias, Machias, Englishman, Pleasant Point, Chandler,
Narragaugus, Muscongus, Linekin, Sheepscot, and Casco bays, while the fishing is especially
good around the numerous islands in the lower Penobscot and Blue Hill bays, and at Monhegan
and the Matinicus islands in the ocean. The Sheepscot River is also a favorite resort for lobsters
during the warm months, while in the winter they retire to the waters of the bay, where the fishing
can be carried on very easily. At most of the other grounds the winter fishing is carried on
in the ocean, as the lobsters do not usually remain in the bays. Most of the fishing in Casco
Bay is carried on at the eastern end among the numerous islands. The earliest fishing of which we
have any definite record was carried on from the township of Harpswell
on this bay.

This region has held its own remarkably well, as in 1898 more than twice as many lobsters were
taken by fishermen from this township than from any other town in
the State.

The upper portions of Frenchman, Blue Hill, and Penobscot bays were formerly very important
grounds, but are now almost exhausted. These regions were especially noted for large lobsters.
In August, 1891, Mr. F. W. Collins, a Rockland dealer, had 50 lobsters in his establishment
which weighed from 10 to 18-1/ 2 pounds apiece. About half of these came from Castine, in upper
Penobscot Bay, and the remainder from Blue Hill Falls, in the upper
Blue Hill Bay.

The grounds in York County, at the western end of the State, were formerly quite prolific, but the
excessive fishing of the last thirty years has very badly depleted
them.

THE FISHING SEASON.

In the early days of the fishery it was customary to fish only during the spring and fall. When
the canneries went into operation they usually worked during the spring, early summer, and fall,
and as they furnished a ready market for all the lobsters that could
be caught this came to be the principal season.

At that time it was not thought possible to do any winter fishing, owing to the cold and stormy
weather and the fact that the fishing had to be carried on generally
in the open sea.

In 1878 a law was passed limiting the canning season to the period between April 1 and August
1. This season was frequently changed by subsequent enactments, but rarely covered a longer
period than that fixed in the first law. As at certain places on the coast the canneries were the
only market for lobsters the fishery would cease as soon as the canneries stopped. At other
places, which were visited by the smacks, some of the fishermen would
continue fishing after the canneries closed, selling to the smackmen.

At various times a closed season was in force, but at present there is no limitation as to
season.

The canning industry in the State practically ceased to exist in 1895, and since then the whole
catch has had to be marketed in a live or boiled condition.

The smack fleet had been gradually increasing as the live-lobster trade extended, and by the time
the canneries closed permanently they had extended their visits to every point where lobsters
could be had in any number.

At present the majority of the fishermen usually haul out their traps during July and August
and put them in good order for the fall fishing. During the excessively cold portion of the
winter most of the pots are taken out, but some fishing is done during
every month of the year.

The
fishermen on Monhegan Island, about 12 miles southeast of Pemaquid Point, agree among themselves
to put no lobster pots in the water until about the 1st of January. There is then no restriction
on fishing until about May 15, when all pots are hauled out and no more fishing is done until
the season begins again. During this season the law in regard to short lobsters is rigidly
enforced by the fishermen themselves. Should any outsider visit this island during the close time
established by the fishermen, and attempt to fish, he is quietly
informed of the agreement and requested to conform to it.

Should he persist in working after this warning, his pots are apt to mysteriously disappear.
As lobsters bring a much higher price in winter than in summer, the Monhegan fishermen reap
a rich reward, as the lobsters are very numerous, owing to the 7-1/ 2 months close time. On
the first day the fishermen hauled in 1900 one man secured 293, for which he received 19 cents
apiece. The smallest number secured by anyone was 135.

FISHING APPLIANCES.

In most large fisheries for certain species numerous changes occur at intervals in the apparatus
used, owing to changed conditions, etc., but in the lobster industry changes have been few, and
at an early period the fishermen fixed upon a uniform apparatus, which has been in use ever since
with but slight modifications, and these generally only temporary.

The earliest form of apparatus used to any considerable extent was the hoop net. This consisted generally
of a hoop or ring of about 1/ 2-inch round iron, or a wooden hogshead
hoop, from 2-1/ 2 to 3 feet or more in diameter.

To this hoop was attached a net bag with a depth of 18 to 24 inches as a bottom, while two wooden
half hoops were bent above it, crossing at right angles in the center about 12 or 15 inches
above the plane of the hoop. Sometimes these half hoops were replaced by short cords. The
bait was suspended from the point of crossing of the two wooden hoops and the line for raising
and lowering the pots was attached at the same place. As there was no way of closing the mouth
of the pot after a lobster had entered, these nets had to be constantly
watched, the lobster being in the habit of retiring after he had finished
his repast.

In using these the fisherman would generally go out in the evening and at short intervals
he would haul in his nets and remove whatever lobsters they might contain. The constant attention
necessary in attending to these hoop nets led the fishermen to devise an apparatus which would
hold the lobsters after once entering and would require only occasional visits, and "lath pots"
were found to fulfill all requirements. They acquire the name from the use of common laths
in their construction. They are usually about 4 feet in length, with a width of about 2 feet,
a height of 18 inches, and in Maine are usually of semicylindrical
form.

The following description of this apparatus is from the Fishery Industries of the United States,
sec. v, vol.

11, p. 666: The framework of the bottom consists of three strips of wood, either hemlock, spruce,
or pine (the first mentioned being the most durable), a little longer
than the width of the pot, about 2-3/ 4 inches wide and 1 inch thick.

In the ends of each of the outer strips a hole is bored to receive the ends of a small branch
of pliable wood, which is bent into a regular semicircular curve. These hoops are made of branches
of spruce or hemlock, or of hardwood saplings, such as maple, birch, or ash, generally retaining
the bark. Three of these similar frames, straight below and curved above, constitute the framework
of each pot, one to stand at each end and one in the center. The narrow strips of wood, generally
ordinary house laths of spruce or pine, which form the covering,
are nailed lengthwise to them, with interspaces between about equal
to the width of the lathe.

On the bottom the laths are sometimes nailed on the outside and sometimes on the inside of
the cross pieces. The door is formed by three or four of the laths running the entire length
near the top. The door is hinged on by means of small leather strips, and is fastened by a single
wooden button in the center, or by two buttons, one at each end. The openings into the pot...
are two in number, one at each end, are generally knit of coarse twine and have a mesh between three-fourths
of an inch and 1 inch square. They are funnel-shaped, with one side shorter than the other, and
at the larger end have the same diameter as the framework. The smaller and inner end measures about
6 inches in diameter and is held open by means of a wire ring or wooden hoop. The funnels are fastened
by the larger ends to the end frames of the pot, with the shorter side uppermost, so that when
they are in place they lead obliquely upward into the pot instead of horizontally. The inner
ends are secured in position by one or two cords extending to the center frame. The funnels are
about 11 or 12 inches deep, and therefore extend about halfway to the center of the pot. They
taper rapidly and form a strongly inclined plane, up which the lobsters
must climb in their search for the bait.

A two-strand manila twine is most commonly used for the funnels. Cotton is also used, but is more
expensive and less durable. A change in the shape of the funnel was first made at Matinicus
shortly before 1890. This has been called the "patent head."

Large lobsters are said to always go to the top and small ones to the bottom of the pots. By going
to the top in the "old-head" pot large lobsters made their escape through the hole, but in the
pots with "patent heads" instead of finding their way through the hole the big lobsters slide
over it. The "patent head" has not been used to any extent, however.
The sketch shown on the following page gives a good idea of the difference
in shape.

In the center of the ordinary pot is a sort of spearhead of wood or iron from 8 to 12 inches long.
This has one large barb and is set upright in the middle of the center
frame.

The bait is placed on this spearhead. Several large stones or bricks are lashed to the bottom
of the pot, on the inside, in order to furnish weight enough to hold the pot at the bottom. As it was
noticed that a lobster generally crawled over a pot before entering by the end, some pots
of a square form and with the opening at the top were constructed,
but they were not successful.

Another variation had a length of 7-1/ 2 feet and five supporting frames inside instead of three,
as in the old pot.

These were
set at equal distances apart, and had two more funnels than the other, one funnel being attached to
each of the frames except the center one, and all pointing inward. In order to reach the bait
the lobster had to pass through two funnels, and its chances of escape were thereby lessened.
This style is rarely seen now. Still another variety in vogue for a short
time had a trapdoor, on which the lobster had to climb in order to
reach the bait; the door then gave way and precipitated the lobster
into a secure inclosure.

A few pots are made with a funnel of laths in place of the net funnels.

They are the same as the ordinary pot in every other particular. The
ordinary pots cost about$ 1 to construct. During certain seasons the
pots are badly eaten by "worms," the shipworm (Teredo) or one of
the species of small boring crustaceans.

Pots are also frequently lost during stormy weather, and the fishermen therefore have a reserve
stock on hand in order to replace those lost or temporarily disabled.

METHODS OF FISHING.

In fishing the traps are either set on single warps or on trawls of 8 to
40 and 50 pots. At first all pots were set singly.

The line by which they were lowered and hauled up, and which also served as a buoy line, was fastened
to one of the end frames of the bottom or sill, as it is called,
at the intersection of the hoop.

The buoys generally consist of a tapering piece of cedar or spruce,
wedge-shaped, or nearly spindle shaped, and about 18 inches long.

They are usually painted in distinctive colors, so that each fisherman may easily recognize his own.
Small kegs are also used as buoys. In the warm season the pots are frequently set on trawls
or "ground lines," as lobsters are quite thick then on the rocky bottom near shore. If the bottom
is sandy they are set farther from shore.

Lobsters are most numerous on a rocky bottom. In the trawl method the pots are usually set
about 30 feet apart, depending on the depth of water, so that when one pot is in the boat the
next will be on the bottom.

The ground lines have large anchors at each end and a floating buoy tied to a strong line, which
is fastened to the ground line almost 25 fathoms from the anchors. When the last pot is hauled
the anchor is far enough away to hold the boat in position. The pots are set at distances from
the shore ranging from 100 yards to 5 or 6 miles. This method of setting pots was first used
about the year 1865 in Sagadahoc County. The traps are set in from 3 to 10 fathoms in the warm
season. In winter fishing the pots are generally set singly, as the lobsters are more scattered
then and the best results are attained by shifting the position of the pots slightly each time they
are fished. This is caused by the drift of the boat while the fisherman is hauling in the pot, emptying
and rebaiting it, and then dropping it overboard again.

The winter fishing is generally carried on in the open sea, although
in a few places, like Sheepscot Bay, the lobsters in winter retire
to the deep waters of the bays and can there be caught.

The pots are generally set in from 20 to 50 fathoms of water at this season. Certain fishermen claim
that when pots are set on a trawl placed across the tide the catch is greater than when the trawl
is set in the direction of the current. In the former case, it is asserted, the scent or fine
particles coming from the bait is more widely diffused and more apt to attract the lobsters. In
entering, after first reconnoitering around and over the pot, the lobster always backs in, primarily
that he may be prepared to meet any foe following him, also because his large claws would be
apt to catch in the net funnel should he enter head first.

After discovering that he is imprisoned, which he does very speedily, he seems to lose all desire for
the bait, and spends his time roaming around the pot hunting for a
means of escape. The pots are generally hauled once a day, but sometimes
twice a day in good weather. As the tide along the Maine coast is quite
strong, the fishermen usually haul their pots at or about slack water,
low tide generally being preferred when they are worked once a day.
The number used by a fisherman varies greatly on different sections
of the coast. According to the investigations of this Commission, the
average number of pots to the man in certain years was as follows: Fifty-six
pots in 1880, 59 in 1887 and 1888, 58 in 1889 and 1892, and 50 in 1898.
This average, however, is somewhat misleading, as quite a number
of persons along the coast take up lobstering for only a few months
in the year, and then return to their regular occupations.

As these persons use but few pots,
the average per man throughout the whole State is very considerably
reduced. The regular lobster fishermen have been steadily increasing
the number of their pots for several years past. They have found this
an absolute necessity in order to catch as many lobsters now as they
caught twenty or thirty years ago. But that will not do! Come and seek us. But first I must
hide again."

The tones of the harmonica had just stopped and the boy had gone. Erick took a deep breath
and said: "I cannot play any more. I must go home."

He turned away and went; but that annoyed Kaetheli. She ran after him and talked angrily at
him. "That is not nice of you, Erick; you need not have done that. You have spoiled the game
now four or five times--that is surely not kind of you, do you think it is?" They had by this
time arrived at Marianne's cottage. Erick stopped at the hedge and turned round. He said, quite
friendly: "Do not be angry, Kaetheli, you see I have to act so."

"Yes, but why? Tell me now, what you do and why you have to spoil everything?" demanded Kaetheli,
rather huffed, for she could not yet get over the fact that she had crawled all for nothing
into the incomparable hiding-place in the goat-shed.

"I will tell you, Kaetheli, for you must not think that I purposely spoil everything for you.
I did not think of that," said Erick, excusing himself. "Do you see, there is a beautiful song
which my mother sang every day, and also on the last day, and I should so much like to hear
that song again. But no one sings it, and I may listen wherever I like, I hear only other things.
Oh, if I could only hear that song again, just once!"

Now Kaetheli saw how Erick's eyes filled with big tears, and in an instant her anger turned
into pity. "You must not be sad on that account, for I can help you," she said readily. "I
know so many songs; tell me what the name of yours is, then I will say it to you right away."

"I try to remember it all the time, but I cannot get the words together; but I remember well
the melody. Do you think you could guess the words, if I sing the melody?"

"Of course I can, you just sing on," encouraged Kaetheli, with confidence.

Erick sang a line, and then another, and still a bit, then he could not go further. Kaetheli,
surprised, shook her head. "I never have heard that song, but perhaps we sing it, only a little
differently. I am sure I shall find it. Tell me what it is about, about people or animals?"

"At the beginning about flowers, green trees, you know, with those beautiful branches and--"

"Stop, I know all," Kaetheli interrupted him; "now I am going to sing it to you." And with
a firm voice and full tones Kaetheli began seriously:

     "'Three roses in the garden,
     Three birds are in the wood,
     In summer it is lovely
     In winter it is good.'

"Is that it?" she now asked, full of confidence that it must be it. But Erick shook his head
decidedly, and said:

"No, no, that is not my song, there is no similarity between it and what you sing."

Kaetheli was much surprised. "But the flowers and the trees are in the song," she said, "or
perhaps, Erick, you have forgotten the song and do not know how it goes?"

"Indeed, indeed I know," the latter assured her. "You see, first there is a great feast, where
they all come and throw down many flowers and wreaths because a great lord is coming and--"

"Perhaps a count," Kaetheli interposed.

"Perhaps so."

"Oh! now I know it! If you only had spoke of the count right away; now listen!" And again Kaetheli
began with full tones:

     "'I stood on a high mountain
     And looked into a vale,
     A little ship came swimming
     Three counts did hoist the sail.'

"Well, Erick?"

But Erick shook his head even more and said sadly: "Not at all, not a bit like it! Perhaps
the song is lost and no one knows anything about it."

"I know something else to help you," said helpful Kaetheli, whose tender heart was filled with
compassion. "To be sure, it is a little late, but I can still do it."

Then she ran away, and Erick looked after her with great surprise, and wondered where she was
going to look for the song.

Running all the way, Kaetheli had reached the bottom of the hill in a quarter of an hour. On
the garden wall stood Ritz. "Get Sally, Ritz, but be quick," Kaetheli called up to him. That
just suited Ritz, for he hoped that something particular was in store, and before Kaetheli
reached the wall, Sally was brought out.

Breathlessly Kaetheli told her what she wanted and now expected, since Sally knew so many songs
that she would bring out the desired one on the spot. But it was not accomplished so quickly
and there followed a long explanation, for Sally must know all that was to be found in the
song, whether it was joyous or sad, and then she began to guess and to try whether it could
be this one or that, but none seemed to fit according to the descriptions, and suddenly Kaetheli
jumped up and exclaimed: "The evening bells are ringing; I have to go home. I am afraid that
father will be at supper before me and then he'll scold. I thought you would know it much quicker,
Sally, such a simple song! Think it over and bring it to me at school, but sure, for else Erick
will be sad again. Good night!"

Kaetheli was away like a shot, and Sally went thoughtfully back to the house. Very soon the
sitting-room was lighted up, where mother and aunt were seated at the table, and now the father
also sat down. Edi had long since waited with his book to see whether the lamp would be lighted
in the room, for his mother had forbidden him to read in the twilight. Ritz sat down to finish,
with many a sigh, a delayed arithmetic lesson. Now Sally entered the room; under each arm she
carried four or five books of different sizes and makeup. Panting under the heavy load she
threw them on the table.

"Oh, for heaven's sake," cried Auntie, frightened, "now Sally will turn into a historical searcheress."

"No, no," cried Sally, "only give me a little room, I am obliged to look for something." She
sat down at once behind the heap of books and began her work in earnest. But she did not remain
undisturbed for long, for the large amount of reading material which she had brought in attracted
the eyes of all, and all at once the father, who had looked at the books from over his paper, said:

"Sally, I see a book which is little suited for you to read. Where did you get the Niebelungen
song?"

"I was just going to ask," said the mother, "what you intended to do with A.M. Arndt's war songs?"

Sally had taken along from all tables and book-cases what seemed to her a collection of songs.
These two books she had found in her father's study and now she explained that she had to find
Erick's lost song, and what Kaetheli had told her about what was in it.

"Aha," said Edi, and giggled a little, "on that account you took that book from the piano.
Erick will be pleased with the words you will get from this."

He held the book before his sister and pointed with his finger to the title: "Songs Without
Words". Sally was not as thorough in her thinking as her brother was. She had, in the zeal
of her intention, thought that these were some particular kind of songs, and she now looked
with some confusion at the book in which only black notes were to be found. Ritz, too, was
now roused to interest in the doings. He too had taken up a book and read rather laboriously:
"Battle Sonnets" from--

"What! You have also been to my table, Sally?" the aunt interrupted the reader. "You children
are really terrible! At any rate you ought to have been in bed long ago; it is high time, pack
together."

But this time Sally showed herself unusually obstinate. She assured them that she could not
sleep, not for the whole night, if she had not found the song. She must bring it to Kaetheli,
as she had promised to do so, and from fear that she should not find the song Sally worked
herself into such a state of excitement that the mother interfered. She explained to the child
that they were not the kind of books where such a song could be found, and that the descriptions
which Kaetheli had given were much too uncertain to find any song. Sally herself should speak
with Erick about what he still knew of his song, and then they would search for it together,
for she too would gladly help the poor boy to keep in memory the song his mother had loved.

These words pacified Sally and so she willingly packed together her books and put each in its
place.

CHAPTER VII

Erick Enlists in the Fighting Army

Meanwhile the sunny September had approached and everywhere the apples and pears were smiling
down from the trees. Every morning one could see the Mayor of Upper Wood walk toward the hillside,
where he had started a new vineyard where only reddish, sweet Alsatian grapes grew. The hillside
lay toward the valley about a half-hour's walk below Upper Wood; but the walk was not too far
for the Mayor to watch the growth of his grapes, for they were of the most delicious kind.

The Justice of Peace, Kaetheli's father, had also a small vineyard on that side, but of a much
inferior kind, and when he sometimes went to see whether his grapes would ripen this year,
he always found the Mayor there, and usually said, pointing to the latter's grapes: "A splendid
plant."

And the Mayor answered: "I should think so. That night he parted beds, and the next day houses;
meditating in what manner he might take honourable and just revenge.

Having resolved, he posted up to London to effect it; but the discovery had preceded him to
the knowledge of Leicester, who finding a necessity to be quick,
bribed an Italian physician ("whose name," says Holles, "I have forgotten")
in whom Lord Sheffield had great confidence, to poison him, which
was immediately effected after his arrival in London.

Leicester, after cohabiting with the Lady Sheffield for some time, married the widow of the Earl
of Essex, who, it is thought, says Holles, "served him in his own
kind, every way."

In the suit afterwards instituted by Sir Robert Dudley, with the view of establishing his legitimacy,
the Lady Sheffield was examined, and swore{ 303} to a private marriage with the Earl of Leicester,
but that she had been prevailed on, by threats and pecuniary largesses, to deny the marriage,
as Queen Elizabeth was desirous that Lord Leicester should marry
the widow of the Earl of Essex.

One
curious circumstance arises out of the revival of these dark doings. Are the particular drugs
employed by Leicester's Italian physician "in removing obstacles"
now known and in operation?

By a remarkable coincidence, in a case of supposed poisoning at Cheltenham, some time since,
the intended victim escaped with the loss of his hair and his nails.

H. K. S. C. What is the correct Prefix of Mayors?

(Vol. i., p. 380.)-- In Leicester the usage has always been to designate
the chief magistrate "The worshipful the Mayor," which, I believe,
is the style used in boroughs.

In cities, and places specially privileged, "Right worshipful" are the terms employed. JAYTEE. Marks
of Cadency (Vol. ii., p. 248.).-- The label of the Prince of Wales has, from the time of Edward
III. up to the present time, been of three points argent, and not
charged.

F. E.***** MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC. Although we do not usually record in our columns the
losses which literature sustains from time to time, we cannot permit
the death of Thomas Amyot, the learned Director of the Camden Society,
and for so many years the Treasurer of the Society of Antiquaries,
to pass without rendering our grateful tribute to the memory of one
of the most intelligent and kindest-hearted men that ever breathed;
from whom we, in common with so many others, when entering on our
literary career, received the most friendly assistance, and the most
encouraging sympathy.

Every fifty years commences a discussion of the great question when
the current century, or half century, properly begins.

We have just seen this in the numerous Queries, Answers, Replies,
and Rejoinders upon the subject which have appeared in the columns
of the daily and weekly press; the only regular treatise being the
essay upon Ancient and Modern Usage in Reckoning, by professor De
Morgan, in the Companion to the Almanack for the present year.

This Essay is opposed to the idea of a "zero year," and one of the
advocates of that system of computation has, therefore, undertaken
a defence of the zero principle, which he pronounces, "when properly
understood, is undoubtedly the most correct basis of reckoning," in
a small volume entitled, An Examination of the Century Question, and
in which he maintains the point for which he is contending with considerable
learning and ingenuity.

All who are interested in the question at issue, will be at once
amused and instructed by it.

Mr. Charles Knight announces a new edition of his Pictorial Shakespeare
under the title of the National Edition; to contain the whole of
the Notes, Illustrations,& c., thoroughly revised; and which, while
it will be printed in a clear and beautiful type across the page,
and not in double columns, will have the advantage of being much cheaper
than the edition which he originally put forth. The Declaration of
the Fathers of the Councell of Trent concerning the going into Churches
at such Times as Hereticall Service is said or Heresy preached,& c., is
a reprint of a very rare tract, which possesses some present interest,
as it bears upon the statement which has been of late years much insisted
on by Mr. Perceval and other Anglican controversialists, that for
the first twelve years of Elizabeth's reign, and until Pius V.'s celebrated
Bull, Regnans in Excelsis, the Roman Catholics of England were in
the habit of frequenting the Reformed worship.

The whole army should not come together until after the organ dedication was over in the morning,
and the midday meal which followed at once, was finished; and in the morning only Churi with
his officers should march out to arrange all places and positions. So he had planned. The officers
whom he had chosen were all his good friends, the toughest Middle Lotters that could be found.

About this time a year ago, he had, with the very same boys, broken into the Mayor's vineyard
and stolen all his very best, fine Alsatian grapes. He intended to do this again with his confidential
friends, for it had never been found out who had stolen the grapes, although they had tried
in all the three communities to find the culprits, and this had greatly encouraged Churi and
his allies. But he knew how careful the Mayor had been this year, and he knew very well of
his daily walks and that in the afternoon his wife also took a walk in the direction of the
vineyard, and in the evening they often took the same walk together; so that the culprits had
not any day been sure of them. But on Organ-Sunday no one would be outside--of that Churi was
convinced; therefore he had arranged everything in view of that, for although there would be
an investigation, all the many Lower Wooders and Middle Lotters would be in that region, and
the culprits would never be found out from among such a large crowd.

After Churi had told his army of his battle plans, they dispersed in all directions. A number
of spectators had gathered around the warriors, every child in Middle Lot, down to the two-year-olds.
Ahead of all was Kaetheli, who was always on the spot when something was to be seen or heard.
When she left the meadow, she saw Erick standing near the hedge, where he had stood for a long
time watching the tumultuous crowd. Kaetheli ran to him. "This will be such a fight as never
before," she called to him with admiration. "Don't you want to be in it, Erick?"

"No," he answered drily.

"Why not?"

"Because they act as I do not care to act."

"Not? You are a peculiar boy, you are always alone. Do you know where you are going Monday
when Marianne goes away from here?"

"No."

"You are going to be auctioned off. My father has said so." 

It was soon demonstrated, however, that the results from inclosures
of this character, so far as the rearing of the lobsters from the
young were concerned, would not be sufficient to materially affect
the general supply.

The completion of the new marine laboratory and hatchery at Woods Hole in 1885, with its complete
system of salt-water circulation, permitted the commencement of experiments
in artificial hatching on a large scale which had not been practicable
theretofore, although small quantities of lobster eggs, as well as
those of other crustaceans, had been successfully hatched.

In 1886 the experiments had progressed so successfully that several
million eggs were collected and hatched at Woods Hole, the fry being
deposited in Vineyard Sound and adjacent waters.

From 1887 to 1890, inclusive, the number of eggs collected was 17,821,000.

During the above years the average production of fry was about 54
per cent. By the use of more improved apparatus the average was brought
up to 90 per cent in 1897, when the collections amounted to 150,000,000
eggs, of which 135,000,000 were hatched.

As the commissioner of sea and shore fisheries of Maine objected to
the taking of female lobsters in that State and the planting of part,
at least, of the resulting fry in other waters, an arrangement was
made in 1898 by which all female lobsters and the fry hatched out
from the eggs secured from these would be returned to the State waters.

Under this arrangement 2,365 "berried" lobsters were bought from the Maine fishermen by the U. S.
Fish Commission. From these 25,207,000 eggs were taken and 22,875,000
fry were hatched. Of these, 21,500,000 were deposited in Maine waters
at various points. In 1899, 36,925,000 fry were planted in Maine waters
by the Commission.

In order that the female lobsters may be secured the authorities
of Maine permit the fishermen to catch and sell "berried" lobsters
to the Commission.

The collection of eggs in Maine is usually made by the Commission during the months of April, May,
June, and to about the middle of July, depending upon the supply
to be had.

During the season of 1899 a small steam smack was chartered for collecting
the lobsters, starting from Gloucester, where the hatching of Maine
lobster eggs is now carried on, and running to Eastport, returning
over the same route.

The Fish Commission schooner Grampus was also used in this work. The
lobsters are purchased from fishermen, who receive the market price
for ordinary lobsters, and as they are not allowed to sell these
lobsters legally for consumption the sale to the Commission materially
increases their financial returns.

In 1883 a radical advance along the line of artificial propagation was made, so far as the legislature
was concerned, when the act incorporating the Samoset Island Association, of Boothbay, was
passed. Section 4 of the charter reads as follows: In order to secure a sufficient and regular supply of
lobsters for domestic consumption on any land or islands under the control
of said corporation, it may increase the number of lobsters within
said limits by artificial propagation, or other appropriate acts and
methods, under the direction of the fishery commission, and shall
not be interfered with by other parties, but be protected therein,
as said fishery commission may determine, and shall have the right,
by its agents and tenants, to take and catch lobsters within 300 yards
of the low-water line of the islands and lands owned or leased by
said corporation, during each and every month, for domestic use.

In 1887 the legislature passed an act granting R. T. Carver the sole right to propagate lobsters
in Carver's pond, Vinalhaven. Mr. Carver's experiment was a failure,
as he says the mud in the pond was so filthy that nearly all the spawn
was killed. LARGE AND PECULIAR LOBSTERS.

Since the inception of the fishery, stories of the capture of lobsters
weighing 30, 40, and even 50 pounds have been common, but have rarely
been well authenticated.

Especially is this the case in the early years of the fishery. It is
probable that in the transmission of the stories from person to person the
lobsters gained rather than lost in size.

Among the most authentic cases in Maine are the following: On May
6, 1891, a male lobster weighing slightly over 23 pounds was taken
in Penobscot Bay, southeast of Moose Point, in line with Brigadier
Island, in about 3-1/ 2 fathoms of water, by Mr. John Condon.

The lobster had tried to back into the trap, but after getting his tail through the funnel he
was unable to get either in or out and was thus captured. According to
Mr. F. W. Collins, a dealer of Rockland, in August, 1891, a lobster
weighing 18-1/ 2 pounds was taken at Blue Hill Falls, in upper Blue
Hill Bay, while in November, 1892, a female lobster weighing 18 pounds
was taken at Green Island. In January, 1893, Mr. N. F. Trefethen, of
Portland, received a lobster from Vinal Haven which weighed 18 pounds.
According to R. F. Crie& Sons, of Criehaven, on September 7,1898,
a male lobster weighing 25 pounds and measuring 25 inches from the end
of the nose to the tip of tail, and 45 inches including the claws,
was caught on a hake trawl by Peter Mitchell, a fisherman.

The trawl was set about 2 miles southeast from Matinicus Rock Light
Station in 60 fathoms of water.

In August, 1899, the writer saw a live male lobster at Peak Island which measured 44 inches in
length and weighed 25 pounds, according to the statement of the owner.

It had been caught near Monhegan Island, and the owner was carrying
it from town to town in a small car, which he had built for it, and
charging a small fee to look at it.

In April, 1874, a female lobster weighing about 2 pounds was caught off Hurricane Island. Her
color was a rich indigo along the middle of the upper part of the body, shading off into a brighter
and clearer tint on the sides and extremities.

The upper surface of the large claws was blue and purple, faintly
mottled with darker shades, while underneath was a delicate cream
tint.

The under parts of the body tended also to melt into a light cream
color, and this was also true of the spines and tubercles of the shell
and appendages.

In 1893
a Peak Island fisherman caught a lobster about 11 inches in length
whose back was of an indigo blue, and which toward the extremities
and under parts was shaded off into a pure white.

The under part of the claw was also of a pure white. Mr. Lewis McDonald,
of Portland, has a pure white lobster preserved in alcohol. It was
caught in 1887.

A lobster was caught at Beal Island, near West Jonesport, which was about 6 or 7 inches in length
and almost jet black. A few bright-red lobsters, looking as though they had been boiled, have
also been taken along the coast at various times.

A lobster was caught near Long Island, Casco Bay, about the year 1886, in which half of the body
was light-yellow up to the middle line of the back, while the other
half was bright-red.

There were no spots on the shell. In September, 1898, Mr. R. T. Carver, of Vinal Haven, had in his possession
a female lobster, about 11 inches long, of a bright-red color all over, except the forward half
of the right side of the carapace and the feeler on this side, which were of the usual color.
LAWS REGULATING THE FISHERY.

In 1897 the legislature revised and consolidated the laws relating
to the sea and shore fisheries of Maine, and below are given the sections
relating to the lobster fishery adopted that year, together with
the amendments to the act adopted in 1899, which are incorporated
herewith: SEC.

39. It is unlawful to catch, buy or sell, or expose for sale, or possess for any purpose, any
lobsters less than 10-1/ 2 inches in length, alive or dead, cooked
or uncooked, measured in manner as follows: Taking the length of the
back of the lobster, measured from the bone of the nose to the end
of the bone of the middle of the flipper of the tail, the length to
be taken in a gauge with a cleat upon each end of the same, measuring
10-1/ 2 inches between said cleats, with the lobster laid upon its
back and extended upon its back upon the gauge, without stretching
or pulling, to the end of the bone of the middle flipper of the tail,
its natural length, and any lobster shorter than the prescribed length
when caught, shall be liberated alive at the risk and cost of the
parties taking them, under a penalty of$ 1 for each lobster so caught,
bought, sold, exposed for sale, or in the possession not so liberated.

The possession of mutilated, uncooked lobsters shall be prima facie
evidence that they are not of the required length.

SEC. 40. It is unlawful to destroy, buy, sell, expose for sale, or
possess any female lobsters in spawn or with eggs attached at any season
of the year, under a penalty of$ 10 for each lobster so destroyed,
caught, bought, sold, exposed for sale, or possessed: Provided, however,
If it appears that it was intended to liberate them in accordance
with the provisions of this act, the persons having such lobsters
in possession shall not be liable to any of the penalties herein provided
for, though he may have failed, for any cause not within his control,
to so liberate them.

SEC. 41. SEC. 42. All barrels, boxes, or other packages in transit containing lobsters shall
be marked with the word lobsters in capital letters, at least 1 inch in length, together with
the full name of the shipper. Said marking shall be placed in a plain
and legible manner on the outside of such barrel, boxes, or other
packages; and in case of seizure by any duly authorized officer of
any barrels, boxes, or other packages in transit, containing lobsters,
which are not so marked, or in case of seizure by such officer of
barrels, boxes, or other packages in transit containing lobsters less
than the prescribed length, such lobsters as are alive and less than
the prescribed length shall be liberated and all such lobsters as
are of the prescribed length found in such barrels, boxes, or packages,
together with such barrels, boxes, and packages, shall be forfeited
and disposed of under the provisions of section 47 of this act.

SEC. 43. Every person, firm, association, or corporation who ships
lobsters without having the barrels, boxes, or other packages in which the
same are contained marked as prescribed in the previous section shall
upon conviction be punished by a fine of$ 25, and upon subsequent
conviction thereof by a fine of$ 50; and any person or corporation
in the business of a common carrier of merchandise who shall carry
or transport from place to place lobsters in barrels, boxes, or other
packages not so marked shall be liable to a penalty of$ 50 upon such
conviction thereof.

SEC. 44.

All cars in which lobsters are kept, and all lobster cars while in
the water, shall have the name of the owner or owners thereof on
the top of the car, where it may plainly be seen, in letters not less
than three-fourths of an inch in length, plainly carved or branded
thereon, and all traps, cars, or other devices for the catching of
lobsters shall have, while in the water, the owner's name carved or
branded in like manner on all the buoys attached to said traps or
other devices, under a penalty of$ 10 for each car and$ 5 for each
trap or device not so marked; and if sufficient proof to establish
the ownership of such cars or traps can not be readily obtained, they
may be declared forfeited, subject to the provisions of section 47
of this act.

SEC. 45.

All persons are hereby prohibited from setting any lobster traps within 300 feet of the mouth or
outer end of the leaders of any fish weir, under a penalty of$ 10
for each offense.

SEC. 46. Whoever takes up, or attempts to take up, or in any way knowingly
and willfully interferes with any lobster trap while set for use,
without the authority of the owner thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than$ 20, nor more than$ 50; Provided, however, That
no action, complaint, or indictment shall be maintained under this
section unless the name of the owner of all such traps shall be carved
or branded in legible letters, not less than three-fourths of an inch
in length, on all the buoys connected with such traps.

SEC. 47. When any lobsters are seized by virtue of the provisions of this act, it shall be the duty
of the officer making such seizure to cause such lobsters, so seized, as he is not required by law
to liberate, together with the cars, traps, barrels, boxes, or other
packages in which they are contained, to be appraised within 24 hours
after the time of such seizures by three disinterested men residing
in the county where such seizure is made, to be selected by him, and
the lobsters, cars, traps, barrels, boxes, or other packages so seized
and appraised shall thereupon be sold by the officer making the seizure
thereof, at such time and in such manner as shall by him be deemed
proper.

The claimant shall have the right of appeal to the next supreme judicial court
or superior court in the county, upon recognizing and paying the
fees for copies and entry as in cases of appeal in criminal cases.
The fees and costs of seizure, appraisal, and sale, and in all other
proceedings in the case, shall be as provided by law in criminal cases,
and in case a forfeiture shall be declared, shall be paid out of the
proceeds of the sale, otherwise shall be paid by the county, as in
criminal cases.

SEC. 48.

All fines and penalties under this act may be recovered by complaint,
indictment, or action of debt brought in the county where the offense is
committed. The action of debt shall be brought in the name of the commissioner
of sea and shore fisheries, and all offenses under or violations
of the provisions of this statute may be settled by the commissioner
of sea and shore fisheries, upon such terms and conditions as he deems
advisable.

All fines, penalties, and collections under this act shall be paid
into the treasury of the county where the offense is committed, and
by such treasurer to the State treasurer, to be added to and made
a part of the appropriation for sea and shore fisheries.

SEC. 49. The commissioner of sea and shore fisheries may take fish of any kind, when, where, and in such
manner as he chooses, for the purposes of science, of cultivation, and of dissemination, and he may
grant written permits to other persons to take fish for the same purposes,
and may introduce or permit to be introduced any kind of fish into
any waters. The following special act was passed at the 1899 session
of the legislature: SEC. 1. No person shall take, catch, kill, or
destroy any lobsters between the 1st day of July and the 1st day of
September in each year, under a penalty of$ 1 for each lobster so taken,
caught, killed, or destroyed, in the waters of Pigeon Hill Bay, so called,
in the towns of Millbridge and Steuben, within the following points,
namely: Commencing at Woods Pond Point, on the west side of Pigeon
Hill Bay; thence easterly to the Nubble, on Little Bois Bubert Island;
thence by the shore to the head of Bois Bubert Island; thence northerly
to Joe Dyers Point, so called; thence by the shore around Long Cove
and the creek; thence to the head of Pigeon Hill Bay aforesaid; thence
by the shore to the first-mentioned bound.

SEC. 2. All fines and penalties under this act may be recovered as provided in section 48
of chapter 285 of the Public Laws of 1897.

IMPORTATIONS OF LIVE LOBSTERS. For some years there have been considerable importations of live
lobsters into Maine from the British Provinces, particularly from New Brunswick; previous to the
closing up of the canning industry they were more numerous than at
present, as considerable numbers were brought in by boat fishermen
for the canneries at or near Eastport. Sally had not said a word since they had left church; now she came close to her mother
and said, quite excited: "Please, please, Mamma, may I go now at once to Kaetheli? I have to
talk over something with her, really I must."

Sally had made up her mind to go out into the vineyards to look for Erick, but she did not
know the way, so Kaetheli was to go with her. But the mother opposed Sally's urging and said:
"You know, dear, that we have dinner at once, and father does not allow such running away on
Sunday. There he comes now. Who is the little boy whose hand he is holding?"

Sally uttered a loud shout of joy and tore away. "Oh, Erick! you are not burnt!" she cried,
beside herself with joy, when she now saw Erick before her with his abundant curls and bright eyes.

"Of course not," said Erick, politely lifting his little cap and offering his hand to her,
a little surprised, for he did not know when he could have burned himself. Quickly she took
his hand and so the three met the surprised mother who, however, at the sight of Erick, guessed
at once who the fine boy in the velvet jacket was. She greeted him lovingly and stroked his
tear-stained eyes and flushed cheeks.

Sally would have liked to ask at once how all had happened, and would have urged him to tell
everything; but when she saw how he must have wept, she shrank from enquiring and held his
hand quietly. Edi and Ritz also noticed at once the traces of tears and greeted him quite calmly.

The pastor left his family to go to his room and the mother took his place and conducted Erick,
whom Sally on the other side held firmly by the hand, up the stairs; Ritz and Edi followed.
When 'Lizebeth, who was standing in the kitchen door, saw the procession come and noticed that
the mother held the little stranger so tenderly by his hand, as though he were her own small
Ritz, then 'Lizebeth at once shut the kitchen door, and grumbled: "There is something wrong
about this!"

Soon after, the whole family sat around the noonday table, and if Sally could not eat yesterday
from sorrow, today she could not swallow anything from pure joy, not even the apple cake, which
surprised Ritz very much. But he was glad that the sad Erick also got some, for he thought
that that must comfort him.

In the evening of this Sunday, Erick sat in the midst of the pastor's family around the four-cornered
sitting-room table, as snugly and familiarly as if he long since belonged there. He had been
treated, the whole afternoon, with such kindness by all, that his whole heart, which had been
accustomed to a mother's great love, opened, and he felt more happy than he had in all the
sad days since he had had to miss this love. Sally did not know how she could do enough to
give him pleasure. Now she had brought the most beautiful picture book that she owned, and
Erick looked with her at the pictures, which she eagerly explained to him; all the time beaming
with joy that everything, she had believed lost, had come to her; that Erick was in the midst
of them at home like a near friend, and was to stay over the night, for the father had arranged
that at once.

Edi sat over his history book and Ritz had a book of his own before him, but looked over it
at Sally and listened to her explanation. Now Edi lifted his head--he must have come upon something
very particular.

"Papa," he said, "now I know for certain what I want to be: a sea-captain. Then I can sail
around the world, for sometime I must see all the lands where all these things have happened."

"So, I thought you wanted to be a professor of history," remarked the father, not much disturbed
by this piece of news.

"I want to be that, too," said Ritz, "I, too, want to sail in ships."

"No, you see, Ritz, two brothers must not be the same thing, else they get in each other's
way," instructed Edi.

"Then I will be a sea-robber, they too sail in ships," Ritz comforted himself.

"We will not hope anything of the kind," said the father behind his church paper.

"And do you remember, Ritz, what I once told you about Julius Caesar?" Edi reminded him. "If
I were to catch you like that, then I should be obliged to have you killed."

"No, I do not want that! But what can one be with ships?" Ritz asked plaintively, for if Edi
expressed a thought, then it usually remained firmly in Ritz's head.

"One can be also something very good without ships, my dear Ritz," the mother said comfortingly,
"and that is much safer; then one stays on firm land, and I should advise you to stay. And
what does our Erick want to be? Has he too thought of that?"

"I must become an honorable man," answered Erick at once.

"That is no calling," instructed Edi.

But the father put down his book and said, nodding at the boy: "That is right, Erick, go toward
that goal: first, and above all, an honorable man; after that, every calling is all right."

Now the mother rose, for it was time to go to bed. Edi and Ritz took Erick between them and
thus marched ahead of the mother to conduct him to his little room which was beside their bedroom,
so that the door between could be left open, with the advantage that Erick also could be drawn
into the nightly conversation. Both Edi and Ritz were delighted with that.

So the Organ-Sunday, which had begun so hostilely, ended quite peacefully.

CHAPTER IX

A Secret that is Kept

When on the next morning the pastor's family was at breakfast, the pastor arranged that Erick
should not go with the other three to school, since he belonged to the school in Lower Wood
and it was now too far to go there. When the other three had gone, then Erick should come to
him in his study. So it was decided, and when Erick came into the study the pastor pointed
to a seat and said: "Now sit down in front of me"--for he himself sat on the large sofa--"look
into my eyes, and tell me everything from the beginning and exactly what happened yesterday
before you came into church, also what you intended to do, for I have heard all kinds of things."

Erick looked with his large, bright blue eyes straight into the pastor's, and told everything
from the beginning: how he was going to be auctioned and did not want to be, what Churi had
promised him, how he then had gone with them, also how the others had brought large baskets
to put grapes in, but he did not know where they were to get the grapes. The pastor, however,
now knew everything, for Sally had reported how the Mayor was expecting his grape-thieves again
and how he was going to receive them. It was now quite plain, as one had always suspected,
that the same crowd, the Middle Lotters, under Churi's lead, had plundered the vineyard.

"Erick," said the pastor earnestly, "you want to be an honorable man and you mean it seriously
so far as you understand the word, I have seen that; but that is not the way which will lead
you there. See, you can understand, that you have made friends with a crowd of boys who are
on no good road; for, to run about wild on Sunday, when the bells call to church, and to be
obliged to hide behind barns from nice people,--you did not learn that from your mother, did
you, Erick?"

Erick had to lower his open eyes and answered very low: "No."

"But worse things turn up if one goes with bad boys," the pastor continued. "Through them,
one often comes where one never wanted to come. See, if you had not been saved from it through
your mother's song which you heard, you would have been caught with the others in the vineyard
as a thief, and punished as such. Well, Erick, if your mother should have had to hear that!"

Erick had grown dark red in the face. He was silent for some time, visibly from fear and perplexity,
then he asked timidly: "Can I no longer grow to be an honorable man?"

"Yes, indeed, Erick," said the pastor now kindly, "that you can. You know now on what road
one cannot go; think of that and keep yourself far from bad companions. And now I will tell
you how you can become a man of honor.

"Erick, you must never forget these words. If you bring all your deeds before the dear God
and look to it before Him, whether you 'Will grace His dear name' as well as you know, then
you will become a genuinely honorable man. Will you think on it?"

"Yes, I will," Erick promised gladly, as now he looked up again to the pastor freely and openly.

"Then," the latter said after a while, "there is still something else, Erick. Have you known
your father?"

"No."

"Do you know if he is still alive, where he is?"

"Mother told me father had gone to America, to make a large fortune for himself and for us;
but he has not yet returned."

"Do you know other relatives, sisters or brothers of your mother, or some close friends?"

"No."

"Don't you know of anyone to whom one could turn, who would look after you?"

"No, no," said Erick, quite anxiously.

But the pastor put his hand very kindly on Erick's head and said: "You must not be afraid,
my boy, all will come out all right. You may go now."

Erick rose; he hesitated for a moment, then he asked somewhat falteringly: "Must I go now directly
to be auctioned? I am afraid Marianne has gone by now."

"No, no," the pastor answered quickly, "you will not go there at all, not at all. Now you go
down to Mamma, she will keep you for the present."

Erick's eyes shone for joy. He had thought up till now that he would be sent to the auction,
away from the happy life in the parsonage, but now this threatening bugbear was done away with
forever. When Erick entered the sitting-room he found old Marianne sitting there. They had
sent word, the evening before, that Erick would not come back for the night, but Marianne could
not have gone away without taking leave of him. With many tears she bade him good-bye, and
Erick too felt sorry that good old Marianne was going away; but since he might stay in the
parsonage, it was indeed a different thing for him than if he had had to remain behind alone.

The weeping Marianne had hardly left the door, when the stately Mayor came in and went with
firm steps toward the pastor's study. Early in the morning, when he was going into the vineyard,
he had met the Justice of Peace, and heard from him all the happenings of yesterday, how Erick
had spoiled the game for the grape-thieves, and how they, the would-be thieves, had run far
beyond the next two villages before they even became aware that it was only their allies who
were chasing them. Kaetheli had learned all that, and had reported it to her father. The Mayor
was quite satisfied with the outcome of the affair, and since he looked on Erick as the saver
of his grapes, he now came to the pastor to talk over what could be done for the poor orphan.

The gentlemen held a long consultation, for both were anxious to find the most suitable plan
for the boy; but they could not come to an agreement. The Mayor proposed that since the little
fellow did not appear to be very strong, it would be best to apprentice him to an easy trade.
He thought it would be best to put him to board at the tailor's, then he would grow into the
trade without much trouble, and would have nice companions in the tailor's own boys; they were
suited to each other, for the tailor's sons were also dressed as cleanly and carefully as he
was. But the pastor had other thoughts; he had a good institute in his mind, where Erick could
be cared for at once and later be educated for a teacher. This also suited the Mayor, and he
took leave with the assurance that he would make Erick a nice little gift, for the little fellow
had shown him a greater kindness than he could know, which the pastor verified.

When later the pastor told his wife of their transaction, she did not quite agree with it;
she thought that she might keep the orphaned Erick for a while with her; in fact she should
prefer to keep him altogether, for she had already taken this loving, trusting boy deep into
her heart. But the pastor convinced her that the "keeping altogether" could not be done, since
there were nearer obligations to all kinds of relatives, so that one could not give the little
stranger preference in such a way. But he gladly granted the wish of his wife to keep Erick
at least a few weeks in their home; for, he said, one could postpone his entrance into the
institute until the beginning of the new year.

When the children were told of the decision there was great rejoicing, for Edi had put into
Ritz's head a large number of splendid undertakings, which could be carried out only by three
people, and Sally knew of nothing in the whole world that could have given her greater joy
than that now she could be with the new friend from day to day; for he was in every way what
she could wish, and in many ways he was much nicer than she could have imagined from the manners
of her former friends.

Erick had such a happy, refined, thoughtful disposition, that it seemed to Sally as if she
lived in continuous sunshine when she was with him. The aunt also agreed with the decision
to keep the boy in the parsonage, although at first she had seen in it a disturbance in the
order of the household, since the increasing of the number would mean that in the evening it
would take even longer to get to a settlement. But when she noticed that Erick, on the first
hint, rose at once and did what was desired, then her fears turned to hopes that one might
impress the others a little with this ever-ready boy, which impressed her very favorably. 'Lizebeth
alone continued her dislike of the new-comer, and whenever she met him in the house she measured
him with her eyes from his head to as far as the velvet reached.

Erick soon felt quite at home in the parsonage. He now went with the three children to the
same school, shared Edi's historical interest as long as the latter entertained him with it,
which was the case on every walk to school, and as often as possible besides, for Edi found
large gaps in the historical knowledge of his new friend and felt himself called upon to fill
them in. Erick was a good listener and often put questions which drove Edi to new, deep studies
and which excited him so much that he had almost no other thoughts but Rome and Carthage.

With good-natured Ritz, Erick was also on good terms. The little fellow ran after him wherever
he went, and looked delighted when he saw him from afar; then he rushed at him and was always
sure of a pleasant reception and jocular conversation, for Erick was always friendly, talkative
and in good humor, and never buried in history books which often made Edi unhappy. So Ritz
spent all the time out of school either with Erick, or seeking him, which however sometimes
cost him a good deal of time, for the very nearest friends, after all, were Erick and Sally.
The two could not be separated. There was a great similarity in their temperaments, for what
the one wanted the other liked also, and what the one did not like, did not please the other,
and both liked nothing better than to go together up into the woods, where under the old fir-tree
was the small bench on which they could sit and tell each other all they knew; or to go down
to the foaming Woodbach and there, sitting on the stones near the bank, watch the tossing waves
rush down. They never seemed to lack topics of conversation. Erick told about his mother, and
how they had lived together, and of her beautiful singing; and Sally never grew weary of hearing
again and again the same stories, and would keep on asking questions. 

And therefore, I suppose, we ought rather to say with Figaro: Qui est-ce qu'on trompe ici?+ Now,
I admit that often, but not always, when our governors say smooth things to the self-love of
the class whose political support they want, they know very well that they are overstepping, by
a long stride, the bounds of truth and soberness; and while they talk, they in a manner, no doubt,
put their tongue in their cheek. Not always; because, when a Barbarian appeals to his own class
to make him their representative and give him political power, he, when he pleases their self-love
by extolling broad-shouldered genial Englishmen with their sense of duty, reverence for the
laws, and patient force, pleases his own self-love and extols himself,
and is, therefore, himself ensnared by his own smooth words.

And so, too, when a Philistine wants to represent his brother Philistines, and [123] extols the
earnest good sense which characterises Manchester, and supplies the
mind, the will, and the power, as the Daily News eloquently says,
requisite for all the great and good things that have to be done,
he intoxicates and deludes himself as well as his brother Philistines
who hear him.

But it is true that a Barbarian often wants the political support of the Philistines; and he
unquestionably, when he flatters the self-love of Philistinism, and extols, in the approved
fashion, its energy, enterprise, and self-reliance, knows that he
is talking clap-trap, and, so to say, puts his tongue in his cheek.

On all matters where Nonconformity and its catchwords are concerned, this insincerity of Barbarians
needing Nonconformist support, and, therefore, flattering the self-love
of Nonconformity and repeating its catchwords without the least real
belief in them, is very noticeable.

When the Nonconformists, in a transport of blind zeal, threw out Sir James Graham's useful
Education Clauses in 1843, one-half of their parliamentary representatives, no doubt, who cried
aloud against "trampling on the religious liberty of the Dissenters
by taking the money of Dissenters to teach the tenets of the [124]
Church of England," put their tongue in their cheek while they so
cried out.

But the point on which I would insist is, that this involuntary tribute to truth and soberness
on the part of certain of our governors and guides never reaches
at all the mass of us governed, to serve as a lesson to us, to abate
our self-love, and to awaken in us a suspicion that our favourite
prejudices may be, to a higher reason, all nonsense.

Whatever by-play goes on among the more intelligent of our leaders, we do not see it; and we
are left to believe that, not only in our own eyes, but in the eyes of our representative and ruling
men, there is nothing more admirable than our ordinary self, whatever our ordinary self happens
to be,-- Barbarian, Philistine, or Populace.

Thus everything in our political life tends to hide from us that there is anything wiser than
our ordinary selves, and to prevent our getting the notion of a paramount right reason. Royalty
itself, [125] in its idea the expression of the collective nation, and a sort of constituted
witness to its best mind, we try to turn into a kind of grand advertising van, to give publicity
and credit to the inventions, sound or unsound, of the ordinary self of individuals. I remember,
when I was in North Germany, having this very strongly brought to my mind in the matter of schools
and their institution. In Prussia, the best schools are Crown patronage schools, as they are called;
schools which have been established and endowed (and new ones are to this day being established
and endowed) by the Sovereign himself out of his own revenues, to
be under the direct control and management of him or of those representing
him, and to serve as types of what schools should be.

The Sovereign, as his position raises him above many prejudices and littlenesses, and as he
can always have at his disposal the best advice, has evident advantages over private founders
in well planning and directing a school; while at the same time his
great means and his great influence secure, to a well-planned school
of his, credit and authority.

This is what, in North Germany, the governors do, in the matter of education, for the [126] governed;
and one may say that they thus give the governed a lesson, and draw
out in them the idea of a right reason higher than the suggestions
of an ordinary man's ordinary self.

But in England how different is the part which in this matter our governors are accustomed
to play!

The Licensed Victuallers or the Commercial Travellers propose to make a school for their children;
and I suppose, in the matter of schools, one may call the Licensed Victuallers or the Commercial Travellers
ordinary men, with their natural taste for the bathos still strong; and a Sovereign with the
advice of men like Wilhelm von Humboldt or Schleiermacher may, in
this matter, be a better judge, and nearer to right reason.

And it will be allowed, probably, that right reason would suggest that, to have a sheer school
of Licensed Victuallers'children, or a sheer school of Commercial Travellers'children, and to
bring them all up, not only at home but at school too, in a kind of odour of licensed victualism or
of bagmanism, is not a wise training to give to these children.

And in Germany, I have said, the action of the national guides or governors is to suggest
and provide a better. But, in England, the action of the national [127] guides or governors
is, for a Royal Prince or a great Minister to go down to the opening of the Licensed Victuallers'or
of the Commercial Travellers'school, to take the chair, to extol the energy and self-reliance of
the Licensed Victuallers or the Commercial Travellers, to be all of their way of thinking, to predict
full success to their schools, and never so much as to hint to them that they are doing a very
foolish thing, and that the right way to go to work with their children's education is quite
different. And it is the same in almost every department of affairs.
While, on the Continent, the idea prevails that it is the business
of the heads and representatives of the nation, by virtue of their
superior means, power, and information, to set an example and to provide
suggestions of right reason, among us the idea is that the business
of the heads and representatives of the nation is to do nothing of
the kind, but to applaud the natural taste for the bathos showing
itself vigorously in any part of the community, and to encourage its
works.

Now I do not say that the political system of foreign countries has not inconveniences which may outweigh
the inconveniences of our own political [128] system; nor am I the least proposing to get rid of our
own political system and to adopt theirs. But a sound centre of authority being what, in this
disquisition, we have been led to seek, and right reason, or our best self, appearing alone to offer
such a sound centre of authority, it is necessary to take note of
the chief impediments which hinder, in this country, the extrication
or recognition of this right reason as a paramount authority, with
a view to afterwards trying in what way they can best be removed.

This
being borne in mind, I proceed to remark how not only do we get no
suggestions of right reason, and no rebukes of our ordinary self, from our
governors, but a kind of philosophical theory is widely spread among us to
the effect that there is no such thing at all as a best self and
a right reason having claim to paramount authority, or, at any rate,
no such thing ascertainable and capable of being made use of; and
that there is nothing but an infinite number of ideas and works of
our ordinary selves, and suggestions of our natural taste for the
bathos, pretty equal in value, which are doomed either to an irreconcileable
conflict, or else to a [129] perpetual give and take; and that wisdom
consists in choosing the give and take rather than the conflict, and
in sticking to our choice with patience and good humour.

And, on the other hand, we have another philosophical theory rife among us, to the effect that
without the labour of perverting ourselves by custom or example to
relish right reason, but by continuing all of us to follow freely our
natural taste for the bathos, we shall, by the mercy of Providence, and by
a kind of natural tendency of things, come in due time to relish and follow
right reason.

The great promoters of these philosophical theories are our newspapers,
which, no less than our parliamentary representatives, may be said to
act the part of guides and governors to us; and these favourite doctrines
of theirs I call,-- or should call, if the doctrines were not preached
by authorities I so much respect,-- the first, a peculiarly British
form of Atheism, the second, a peculiarly British form of Quietism.
The first-named melancholy doctrine is preached in The Times with
great clearness and force of style; indeed, it is well known, from
the example of the poet Lucretius and others, what great masters
of style the atheistic [130] doctrine has always counted among its
promulgators. "It is of no use," says The Times, "for us to attempt
to force upon our neighbours our several likings and dislikings. We
must take things as they are.

Everybody has his own little vision of religious or civil perfection. Under the evident impossibility
of satisfying everybody, we agree to take our stand on equal laws and on a system as open and
liberal as is possible. The result is that everybody has more liberty
of action and of speaking here than anywhere else in the Old World."
We come again here upon Mr. Roebuck's celebrated definition of happiness,
on which I have so often commented: "I look around me and ask what
is the state of England?

Is not every man able to say what he likes? I ask you whether the world over, or in past history,
there is anything like it? Nothing. I pray that our unrivalled happiness may last." This is the
old story of our system of checks and every Englishman doing as
he likes, which we have already seen to have been convenient enough so long
as there were only the Barbarians and the Philistines to do what they
liked, but to be getting inconvenient, and productive of anarchy,
[131] now that the Populace wants to do what it likes too.

But for all that, I will not at once dismiss this famous doctrine, but will first quote another
passage from The Times, applying the doctrine to a matter of which we have just been speaking,--
education. "The difficulty here" (in providing a national system of education), says The Times,
"does not reside in any removeable arrangements. It is inherent and native in the actual and
inveterate state of things in this country. All these powers and personages, all these conflicting
influences and varieties of character, exist, and have long existed among us; they are fighting
it out, and will long continue to fight it out, without coming to that happy consummation when
some one element of the British character is to destroy or to absorb all the rest." There
it is; the various promptings of the natural taste for the bathos in this man and that amongst us
are fighting it out; and the day will never come (and, indeed, why should we wish it to come?)
when one man's particular sort of taste for the bathos shall tyrannise
over another man's; nor when right reason (if that may be called an
element of the British character) shall absorb and [132] rule them
all.

"The whole system of this country, like the constitution we boast to inherit, and are glad
to uphold, is made up of established facts, prescriptive authorities, existing usages, powers
that be, persons in possession, and communities or classes that have
won dominion for themselves, and will hold it against all comers." Every
force in the world, evidently, except the one reconciling force, right reason!
Sir Thomas Bateson here, the Rev. W. Cattle on this side, Mr. Bradlaugh
on that!-- pull devil, pull baker!

Really, presented with the mastery of style of our leading journal, the sad picture, as one gazes
upon it, assumes the iron and inexorable solemnity of tragic Destiny. After this, the milder doctrine of our
other philosophical teacher, the Daily News, has, at first, something very attractive and
assuaging.

The Daily News begins, indeed, in appearance, to weave the iron web of necessity round us like The
Times. "The alternative is between a man's doing what he likes and his doing what some one else,
probably not one whit wiser than himself, likes." This points to the tacit compact, mentioned
[133] in my last paper, between the Barbarians and the Philistines, and into which it is hoped
that the Populace will one day enter; the compact, so creditable to English honesty, that no class,
if it exercise power, having only the ideas and aims of its ordinary self to give effect to, shall
treat its ordinary self too seriously, or attempt to impose it on others; but shall let these
others,-- the Rev. W. Cattle, for instance, in his Papist-baiting,
and Mr. Bradlaugh in his Hyde Park anarchy-mongering,-- have their
fling.

But then the Daily News suddenly lights up the gloom of necessitarianism
with bright beams of hope. "No doubt," it says, "the common reason of
society ought to check the aberrations of individual eccentricity."
This common reason of society looks very like our best self or right
reason, to which we want to give authority, by making the action
of the State, or nation in its collective character, the expression
of it.

But of this project of ours, the Daily News, with its subtle dialectics,
makes havoc.

"Make the State the organ of the common reason?"-- it says. "You may make it the organ of something
or other, but how can you be certain that [134] reason will be the quality which will be embodied
in it?" You cannot be certain of it, undoubtedly, if you never try
to bring the thing about; but the question is, the action of the
State being the action of the collective nation, and the action of
the collective nation carrying naturally great publicity, weight,
and force of example with it, whether we should not try to put into
the action of the State as much as possible of right reason, or our
best self, which may, in this manner, come back to us with new force
and authority, may have visibility, form, and influence, and help
to confirm us, in the many moments when we are tempted to be our ordinary
selves merely, in resisting our natural taste of the bathos rather
than in giving way to it?

But no! says our teacher: "it is better there should be an infinite
variety of experiments in human action, because, as the explorers
multiply, the true track is more likely to be discovered.

The common reason of society can check the aberrations of individual eccentricity only by acting
on the individual reason; and it will do so in the main sufficiently, if left to this natural
operation."

This is what I call the specially British form of [135] Quietism, or a devout, but excessive,
reliance on an over-ruling Providence. Providence, as the moralists are careful to tell us, generally
works in human affairs by human means; so when we want to make right reason act on individual
reason, our best self on our ordinary self, we seek to give it more power of doing so by giving it public
recognition and authority, and embodying it, so far as we can, in the State. It seems too much
to ask of Providence, that while we, on our part, leave our congenital taste for the bathos to
its natural operation and its infinite variety of experiments, Providence
should mysteriously guide it into the true track, and compel it to
relish the sublime.

At any rate, great men and great institutions have hitherto seemed
necessary for producing any considerable effect of this kind.

No doubt we have an infinite variety of experiments, and an ever-multiplying multitude of explorers;
even in this short paper I have enumerated many: the British Banner,
Judge Edmonds, Newman Weeks, Deborah Butler, Elderess Polly, Brother
Noyes, the Rev. W. Cattle, the Licensed Victuallers, the Commercial
Travellers, and I know not how [136] many more; and the numbers of
this noble army are swelling every day.

But what a depth of Quietism, or rather, what an over-bold call on the direct interposition of Providence,
to believe that these interesting explorers will discover the true
track, or at any rate, "will do so in the main sufficiently" Erick must
see them nearer. Sally shouted after him: "Call us if you find something, but be careful, it
is steep there."

Erick answered with a yodel and disappeared. Having arrived below, he met the Middle Lotters,
who were bending in groups here and there, or lying on the ground, eating the berries which
they picked. Erick could not find the red spot which he had seen from above; but not far away
from him stood Churi, who had seen him coming down. Churi called to him:

"Come here, velvet pants, here are berries such as you have never seen."

When Churi saw that, he was frightened. For a moment he stared at the gray waves; but Erick
had disappeared, not a speck of him could be seen. Then Churi softly turned round and ran away
as quickly as he could, without looking round, for his conscience bit him and drove him along,
and he dared not look anyone in the face for fear that someone could read there what he had
done. The other Middle Lotters had not paid attention to what was going on. Perhaps once in
a while one of the crowd would ask, "What has become of Churi all of a sudden?" and another
would answer, "He can go, wherever he likes," and they would turn again to their berries and
think no more of him.

Meanwhile Sally had remained standing in the same spot and had waited for Erick's call. When
it did not come, she began to call, but received no answer. She now called to Edi, and he came
running with Ritz, and all three called together for Erick, but in vain. The sun had long since
set, and it was beginning to grow dark. All children, even the Middle Lotters, went past them
on their homeward way, and they were always the very last. "Show me once more, and be quite
sure, the very spot where he began to climb down," said Edi, "I will go down, in the same path."

Sally showed the exact spot, where Erick had descended over the rock, and Edi began the descent
a little timidly. But he arrived safely down below and ran hither and thither, calling with
a loud voice: "Erick! He died within two days'sail of Otaheite, one of the Society Islands. The Peter Jackson
that used to live at Laterett's; he died on board the ship Done, of
Nantucket, Captain Miller, in the latitude 15 53, and longitude 148 30 W.
I have no more to say at present, but write as soon as possible.

This is the fifth letter that I have wrote to you, and have received no answer, and it makes
me very uneasy. So pray write as quick as you can, and tell me how all the people is about the
neighborhood. We are out from home twenty-three months, and in hope to be home in fifteen
months. I have not much to say; but tell me if you have been up home
since I left or not.

I want to know what sort of a time is at home. We had very bad luck when we first came out,
but since we have had very good; so I am in hopes to do well yet; but if I do n't do well,
you need not expect me home these five years. So write as quick as you can, won't you? So now
I am going to put an end to my writing, at present. Notice-when this
you see, remember me, and place me in your mind.

Get me to my home, that's in the far distant west, To the scenes of my childhood, that I like
the best; There the tall cedars grow, and the bright waters flow, Where my parents will greet
me, white man, let me go!

Let me go to the spot where the cateract plays, Where oft I have sported in my boyish days;
And there is my poor mother, whose heart ever flows, At the sight of her poor child, to her let me
go, let me go!'Your only son,'PETER VAN WAGENER.'Since the date of
the last letter, Isabella has heard no tidings from her long-absent
son, though ardently does her mother's heart long for such tidings,
as her thoughts follow him around the world, in his perilous vocation,
saying within herself-'He is good now, I have no doubt; I feel sure
that he has persevered, and kept the resolve he made before he left
home;-he seemed so different before he went, so determined to do better.'His
letters are inserted here for preservation, in case they prove the
last she ever hears from him in this world.

FINDING A BROTHER AND SISTER.

When Isabella had obtained the freedom of her son, she remained in Kingston,
where she had been drawn by the judicial process, about a year, during
which time she became a member of the Methodist Church there: and
when she went to New York, she took a letter missive from that church
to the Methodist Church in John street. Afterwards, she withdrew her
connection with that church, and joined Zion's Church in Church street,
composed entirely of colored people. With the latter church she remained until
she went to reside with Mr. Pierson, after which, she was gradually
drawn into the'kingdom'set up by the prophet Matthias, in the name
of God the Father; for he said the spirit of God the Father dwelt
in him.

While Isabella was in New York, her sister Sophia came from Newburg
to reside in the former place.

Isabel had been favored with occasional interviews with this sister, although at one time
she lost sight of her for the space of seventeen years-almost the entire period of her being at
Mr. Dumont's-and when she appeared before her again, handsomely dressed, she did not recognize her,
till informed who she was. Sophia informed her that her brother Michael-a brother she had never seen-was
in the city; and when she introduced him to Isabella, he informed her that their sister Nancy had
been living in the city, and had deceased a few months before. He described her features, her
dress, her manner, and said she had for some time been a member in Zion's Church, naming the
class she belonged to.

Isabella almost instantly recognized her as a sister in the church, with whom she had knelt at the
altar, and with whom she had exchanged the speaking pressure of the hand, in recognition of their
spiritual sisterhood; little thinking, at the time, that they were also children of the same
earthly parents-even Bomefree and Mau-mau Bett. As inquiries and answers rapidly passed, and the
conviction deepened that this was their sister, the very sister they had heard so much of,
but had never seen, (for she was the self-same sister that had been locked
in the great old fashioned sleigh-box, when she was taken away, never
to behold her mother's face again this side the spirit-land, and
Michael, the narrator, was the brother who had shared her fate,) Isabella
thought,'D-h! here she was; we met; and was I not, at the time, struck
with the peculiar feeling of her hand-the bony hardness so just like
mine? and yet I could not know she was my sister; and now I see she
looked so like my mother.'And Isabella wept, and not alone; Sophia
wept, and the strong man, Michael, mingled his tears with theirs.'Oh
Lord,'inquired Isabella,'what is this slavery, that it can do such
dreadful things? what evil can it not do?'Well may she ask, for surely
the evils it can and does do, daily and hourly, can never be summed
up, till we can see them as they are recorded by him who writes no
errors, and reckons without mistake.

This account, which now varies so widely in the estimate of different minds, will be viewed alike
by all. Think you, dear reader, when that day comes, the most'rapid abolitionist'will say-'Behold,
I saw all this while on the earth?'Will he not rather say,'Oh, who has conceived the breadth
and depth of this moral malaria, this putrescent plague-spot?'Perhaps the pioneers in the slave's
cause will be as much surprised as any to find that with all their looking,
there remained so much unseen.

GLEANINGS. There are some hard things that crossed Isabella's life while in slavery, that she has
no desire to publish, for various reasons. First, because the parties from whose hands she suffered
them have rendered up their account to a higher tribunal, and their
innocent friends alone are living, to have their feelings injured by
the recital; secondly, because they are not all for the public ear,
from their very nature; thirdly, and not least, because, she says,
were she to tell all that happened to her as a slave-all that she knows
is'God's truth'-it would seem to others, especially the uninitiated,
so unaccountable, so unreasonable, and what is usually called so unnatural,
(though it may be questioned whether people do not always act naturally,)
they would not easily believe it.'Why, no!'she says,'they'd call
me a liar! they would, indeed! and I do not wish to say anything to
destroy my own character for veracity, though what I say is strictly
true.'Some things have been omitted through forgetfulness, which not
having been mentioned in their places, can only be briefly spoken
of here;-such as, that her father Bomefree had had two wives before
he took Mau mau Bett; one of whom, if not both, were torn from him
by the iron hand of the ruthless trafficker in human flesh;-that her
husband, Thomas, after one of his wives had been sold away from him,
ran away to New York City, where he remained a year or two, before
he was discovered and taken back to the prison-house of slavery;-that
her master Dumont, when he promised Isabella one year of her time,
before the State should make her free, made the same promise to her
husband, and in addition to freedom, they were promised a log cabin
for a home of their own; all of which, with the one-thousand-and-one
day-dreams resulting therefrom, went into the repository of unfulfilled
promises and unrealized hopes;-that she had often heard her father
repeat a thrilling story of a little slave-child, which, because it
annoyed the family with its cries, was caught up by a white man, who
dashed its brains out against the wall.

An Indian (for Indians were plenty in that region then) passed along as the bereaved mother washed
the bloody corpse of her murdered child, and learning the cause of its death, said, with characteristic
vehemence,'If I had been here, I would have put my tomahawk in his
head!'meaning the murderer's. Of the cruelty of one Hasbrouck.-He
had a sick slave-woman, who was lingering with a slow consumption,
whom he made to spin, regardless of her weakness and suffering; and
this woman had a child, that was unable to walk or talk, at the age
of five years, neither could it cry like other children, but made
a constant, piteous moaning sound.

This exhibition of helplessness and imbecility, instead of exciting the master's pity, stung
his cupidity, and so enraged him, that he would kick the poor thing
about like a foot-ball.

Isabella's informant had seen this brute of a man, when the child was curled up under a chair,
innocently amusing itself with a few sticks, drag it hence, that he might have the pleasure
of tormenting it. She had see him, with one blow of his foot, send it rolling quite across
the room, and down the steps at the door. Oh, how she wished it might instantly die!'But,'she
said,'it seemed as tough as a moccasin.'Though it did die at last,
and made glad the heart of its friends; and its persecutor, no doubt,
rejoiced with them, but from very different motives.

But the day of his retribution was not far off-for he sickened, and
his reason fled.

It was fearful to hear his old slave soon tell how, in the day of his calamity, she treated him.
She was very strong, and was therefore selected to support her master, as he sat up in bed, by putting
her arms around, while she stood behind him. It was then that she
did her best to wreak her vengeance on him. She would clutch his feeble
frame in her iron grasp, as in a vice; and, when her mistress did
not see, would give him a squeeze, a shake, and lifting him up, set
him down again, as hard as possible. If his breathing betrayed too tight
a grasp, and her mistress said,'Be careful, don't hurt him, Soan!'her every-ready
answer was,'Oh no, Missus, no,'in her most pleasant tone-and then,
as soon as Missus's eyes and ears were engaged away, another grasp-another
shake-another bounce.

She was afraid the disease alone would let him recover,-an event she dreaded more than to do wrong
herself. Isabella asked her, if she were not afraid his spirit would haunt
her.'Oh, no,'says Soan;'he was so wicked, the devil will never let
him out of hell long enough for that.'Many slaveholders boast of the
love of their slaves. How would it freeze the blood of some of them
to know what kind of love rankles in the bosoms of slaves for them!
Witness the attempt to poison Mrs. Calhoun, and hundreds of similar
cases. Most'surprising'to every body, because committed by slaves supposed
to be so grateful for their chains. These reflections bring to mind
a discussion on this point, between the writer and a slaveholding friend
in Kentucky, on Christmas morning, 1846. We had asserted, that until
mankind were far in advance of what they are now, irresponsible power
over our fellow-beings would be, as it is, abused. Our friend declared
it was his conviction, that the cruelties of slavery existed chiefly
in imagination, and that no person in D-County, where we then were, but
would be above ill-treating a helpless slave. We answered, that if
his belief was well-founded, the people in Kentucky were greatly in
advance of the people of New England-for we would not dare say as much
as that of any school-district there, letting alone counties.

No, we would not answer for our own conduct even on so delicate a point.
The next evening, he very magnanimously overthrew his own position and
established ours, by informing us that, on the morning previous, and as near
as we could learn, at the very hour in which we were earnestly discussing
the probabilities of the case, a young woman of fine appearance,
and high standing in society, the pride of her husband, and the mother
of an infant daughter, only a few miles from us, ay, in D-County,
too, was actually beating in the skull of a slave-woman called Tabby;
and not content with that, had her tied up and whipped, after her
skull was broken, and she died hanging to the bedstead, to which she
had been fastened.

When informed that Tabby was dead, she answered,'I am glad
of it, for she has worried my life out of me.'But Tabby's highest good was
probably not the end proposed by Mrs. M-, for no one supposed she meant
to kill her. Tabby was considered quite lacking in good sense, and
no doubt belonged to that class at the South, that are silly enough
to'die of moderate correction.'A mob collected around the house for
an hour or two, in that manner expressing a momentary indignation.

But was she treated as a murderess? Not at all! She was allowed to take boat (for her residence
was near the beautiful Ohio) that evening, to spend a few months with
her absent friends, after which she returned and remained with her
husband, no one to'molest or make her afraid.'Had she been left to
the punishment of an outraged conscience from right motives, I would
have'rejoiced with exceeding joy'.

But to see the life of one woman, and she a murderess, put in the balance against the lives of
three millions of innocent slaves, and to contrast her punishment with what I felt would be
the punishment of one who was merely suspected of being an equal
friend of all mankind, regardless of color or condition, caused my
blood to stir within me, and my heart to sicken at the thought.

The husband of Mrs. M-was absent from home, at the time alluded to; and when he arrived, some
weeks afterwards, bringing beautiful presents to his cherished companion, he beheld his once
happy home deserted, Tabby murdered and buried in the garden, and the wife of his bosom, and the
mother of his child, the doer of a dreadful deed, a murderess! When Isabella
went to New York City, she went in company with a Miss Grear, who
introduced her to the family of Mr. James Latourette, a wealthy merchant,
and a Methodist in religion; but who, the latter part of his life,
felt that he had outgrown ordinances, and advocated free meetings,
holding them at his own dwelling-house for several years previous
to his death.

She worked for them, and they generously gave her a home while she
labored for others, and in their kindness made her as one of their
own.

At that time, the'moral reform'movement was awakening the attention of the benevolent in that
city.

Many women, among whom were Mrs. Latourette and Miss Grear, became deeply interested in making
an attempt to reform their fallen sisters, even the most degraded of them; and in this enterprise
of labor and danger, they enlisted Isabella and others, who for a time put forth their most zealous
efforts, and performed the work of missionaries with much apparent success. Isabella accompanied
those ladies to the most wretched abodes of vice and misery, and
sometimes she went where they dared not follow.

They even succeeded in establishing prayer-meetings in several places, where such a thing might
least have been expected. But these meetings soon became the most noisy, shouting, ranting, and
boisterous of gatherings; where they became delirious with excitement, and then exhausted from over-action.
Such meetings Isabel had not much sympathy with, at best. But one evening she attended one of them,
where the members of it, in a fit of ecstasy, jumped upon her cloak
in such a manner as to drag her to the floor-and then, thinking she
had fallen in a spiritual trance, they increased their glorifications
on her account,-jumping, shouting, stamping, and clapping of hands;
rejoicing so much over her spirit, and so entirely overlooking her
body, that she suffered much, both from fear and bruises; and ever
after refused to attend any more such meetings, doubting much whether
God had any thing to do with such worship.

THE MATTHIAS DELUSION. We now come to an eventful period in the
life of Isabella, as identified with one of the most extraordinary
religious delusions of modern times; but the limits prescribed for
the present work forbid a minute narration of all the occurrences
that transpired in relation to it.

After she had joined the African
Church in Church street, and during her membership there, she frequently
attended Mr. Latourette's meetings, at one of which, Mr. Smith invited
her to go to a prayer-meeting, or to instruct the girls at the Magdalene
Asylum, Bowery Hill, then under the protection of Mr. Pierson, and
some other persons, chiefly respectable females.

To reach the Asylum, Isabella called on Katy, Mr. Pierson's colored servant, of whom she had
some knowledge. Mr. Pierson saw her there, conversed with her, asked her if she had been baptized,
and was answered, characteristically,'by the Holy Ghost.'After this, Isabella saw Katy several
times, and occasionally Mr. Pierson, who engaged her to keep his
house while Katy went to Virginia to see her children.

This engagement was considered an answer to a prayer by Mr. Pierson, who had both fasted and prayed
on the subject, while Katy and Isabella appeared to see in it the hand of God. Mr. Pierson was
characterized by a strong devotional spirit, which finally became highly fanatical. He assumed
the title of Prophet, asserting that God had called him in an omnibus,
in these words:-'Thou are Elijah, the Tishbite.

Gather unto me all the members of Israel at the foot of Mount Carmel'; which he understood as meaning the
gathering of his friends at Bowery Hill. Not long afterward, he became acquainted with the notorious
Matthias, whose career was as extraordinary as it was brief.

Robert Matthews, or Matthias (as he was usually called), was of Scotch extraction, but a native
of Washington County, New York, and at that time about forty-seven years of age. He was religiously
brought up, among the Anti-Burghers, a sect of Presbyterians; the clergyman, the Rev. Mr. Bevridge,
visiting the family after the manner of the church, and being pleased
with Robert, put his hand on his head, when a boy, and pronounced
a blessing, and this blessing, with his natural qualities, determined
his character; for he ever after thought he should be a distinguished
man.

Matthias was brought up a farmer till nearly eighteen years of age, but acquired indirectly
the art of a carpenter, without any regular apprenticeship, and showed
considerable mechanical skill. He obtained property from his uncle,
Robert Thompson, and then he went into business as a store-keeper, was
considered respectable, and became a member of the Scotch Presbyterian
Church. He married in 1813, and continued in business in Cambridge.
In 1816, he ruined himself by a building speculation, and the derangement
of the currency which denied bank facilities, and soon after he came
to New York with his family, and worked at his trade. He afterwards
removed to Albany, and became a hearer at the Dutch Reformed Church,
then under Dr. Ludlow's charge.

He was frequently much excited on religious subjects. In 1829, he was well known, if not for street
preaching, for loud discussions and pavement exhortations, but he did not make set sermons. In
the beginning of 1830, he was only considered zealous; but in the same year he prophesied the
destruction of the Albanians and their capital, and while preparing
to shave, with the Bible before him, he suddenly put down the soap
and exclaimed,'I have found it!

I have found a text which proves that no man who shaves his beard can be a true Christian;'and shortly
afterwards, without shaving, he went to the Mission House to deliver
an address which he had promised, and in this address, he proclaimed
his new character, pronounced vengeance on the land, and that the
law of God was the only rule of government, and that he was commanded
to take possession of the world in the name of the King of kings.

His harangue was cut short by the trustees putting out the lights.

About this time, Matthias laid by his implements of industry, and in June, he advised his
wife to fly with him from the destruction which awaited them in the city; and on her refusal,
partly on account of Matthias calling himself a Jew, whom she was
unwilling to retain as a husband, he left her, taking some of the
children to his sister in Argyle, forty miles from Albany.

At Argyle he entered the church and interrupted the minister, declaring the congregation in darkness, and
warning them to repentance. He was, of course, taken out of the church, and as he was advertised
in the Albany papers, he was sent back to his family. His beard had now obtained a respectable
length, and thus he attracted attention, and easily obtained an audience in the streets. For this
he was sometimes arrested, once by mistake for Adam Paine, who collected the crowd, and then left
Matthias with it on the approach of the officers. He repeatedly urged his wife to accompany
him on a mission to convert the world, declaring that food could be obtained from the roots
of the forest, if not administered otherwise. At this time he assumed the name of Matthias, called
himself a Jew, and set out on a mission, taking a western course,
and visiting a brother at Rochester, a skillful mechanic, since dead.

Leaving his brother, he proceeded on his mission over the Northern States, occasionally returning
to Albany. After visiting Washington, and passing through Pennsylvania, he came to New York.
His appearance at that time was mean, but grotesque, and his sentiments
were but little known. On May the 5th, 1832, he first called on Mr.
Pierson, in Fourth street, in his absence.

Isabella was alone in the house, in which she had lived since the previous autumn. On opening
the door, she, for the first time, beheld Matthias, and her early
impression of seeing Jesus in the flesh rushed to her mind.

She heard his inquiry, and invited him into the parlor; and being naturally curious, and much excited,
and possessing a good deal of tact, she drew him into conversation, stated her own opinions, and
heard his replies and explanations. Her faith was at first staggered by his declaring himself a Jew;
but on this point she was relieved by his saying,'Do you not remember how Jesus prayed?'and repeated
part of the Lord's Prayer, in proof that the Father's kingdom was
to come, and not the Son's. She then understood him to be a converted
Jew, and in the conclusion she says she'felt as if God had sent him
to set up the kingdom.'Thus Matthias at once secured the good will
of Isabella, and we may supposed obtained from her some information
in relation to Mr. Pierson, especially that Mrs. Pierson declared
there was no true church, and approved of Mr. Pierson's preaching.

Matthias left the house, promising to return on Saturday evening. Mr. P. at this time had not seen
Matthias. Isabella, desirous of hearing the expected conversation between Matthias and Mr. Pierson
on Saturday, hurried her work, got it finished, and was permitted
to be present.

Indeed, the sameness of belief made her familiar with her employer, while her attention to her
work, and characteristic faithfulness, increased his confidence. This
intimacy, the result of holding the same faith, and the principle
afterwards adopted of having but one table, and all things in common,
made her at once the domestic and the equal, and the depositary of
very curious, if not valuable information.

To this object, even her color assisted. Persons who have traveled in the South know the manner
in which the colored people, and especially slaves, are treated; they are scarcely regarded as
being present. This trait in our American character has been frequently
noticed by foreign travelers.

When Erick noticed that his grandfather kept on wiping away the tears, then sad thoughts gained
the upper hand in him and all at once the rejoicing expression disappeared, and he said quite
sadly: "Oh, Grandfather, I was not to come to you now, and not for a long time. Only when I
had become an honorable man, was I to step before you and say to you: 'My mother sends me to
you, that you may be proud of me, and that I may make good the sorrow, which my mother has
caused you.'"

The grandfather put his arms lovingly around Erick and said: "Now everything is all right.
It is enough that your mother has sent you to me. She meant it well with the 'honorable man',
in this I recognize my child; and you do not disobey her, my boy, for you see, you did not
come to me, but I came to you. And an honorable man you will also become with me."

"Yes, that I will, and I know too, how one becomes one, for the reverend pastor has told me how."

"That is lovely of him, we will thank him for it. And now we start, this very day, on our journey
to Denmark."

"To Denmark, Grandfather, to the beautiful estate, right now?" Erick's eyes grew larger and
larger with astonishment and expectation, for he only now comprehended, what he was going to
meet: all that had stood before his mental eyes as the highest and most splendid, ever since
he could think, and that his mother had painted for him in the bright coloring of her childhood's
remembrances, again and again, the distant, beautiful estate, the handsome horses, the pond
with the barge, the large house with the winter-garden,--everything he was now to see, and
live there with this grandfather, for whom his mother had planted such a love and reverence
in her boy's heart, that he saw in him the highest of what could be found on this earth,--all
this over-powered Erick so much that he was not able to comprehend his good fortune, and with
a deep breath he asked: "Are you sure, Grandfather?"

"Yes, yes, my boy," the grandfather assured him, laughing. "Come, I hope you can start at once.
You will not have much to pack?"

"Oh, no," said Erick. "You see,"--and he counted on his fingers: "three writing-books, three
school-books, the pen-box and the beautiful Christmas present that I received here in the parsonage."

"That is well, that will make a small bundle," but the old gentleman looked at his grandson,
rather surprised, and said: "I am astonished, little waif, that you look so fine."

"Yes, I believe you, Grandfather," answered Erick. "That is good stuff that I am wearing; it
comes from you. You see, when in the old suit which I had worn so long, the patches became
holes, then Mother brought out the beautiful velvet cloak, with the broad lace, and said: 'That
is good, that comes from Grandfather, you can wear that a long time.' And then she cut everything
apart and sewed everything together again, and so there came out what I am now wearing. And
Mother received a great deal of money for the broad lace. But only when all was finished and
I was wearing it, she became glad again; during the cutting and the sewing together, she was
very quiet."

The grandfather too had become still, and he turned away for a while. No doubt he too thought
of the time and what happy days they were when he had hung around his beloved child the rich
mantle, and how sweetly she stood before him, she whom he was never to see again.

"Come, my boy," he said, turning again to Erick. "What has become of your foster-parents? It
is time that we thank them."

The pastor's wife had seen at once that the grandfather had recognized his grandson, and as
the latter was standing before him, she gently urged her husband and children, as well as Marianne,
out of the room and closed the door after her; and outside, in the long passage, she let the
interested crowd ask their loud questions, and give their loudest answers, undisturbed. But
when the colonel, holding Erick by the hand, came out of the study, she at once made an open
path for them through the assembled people, to bring them upstairs to the quiet reception room,
where at last the family and their guest could be among themselves. Here the beaming grandfather
went first to the lady of the house, and then to the master and then again to the lady, and
every time he took each by both their hands with indescribable heartiness and kept on saying:
"I have no words, but thanks, eternal thanks!" And all at once he saw Sally's head peeping
out from behind her mother. He suddenly took it between his two hands and cried: "There is,
I believe, the great friend and defender of my boy. Well, now will you forgive me?"

Sally pulled one of his hands down and pressed a hearty kiss on it, and now the colonel tenderly
stroked her hair and said: "Such good friends are worth a great deal!"

But when he expressed his intention to start at once with Erick, there arose great opposition,
and this time the mother distinguished herself in opposition against such quick separation.
The grandfather of her Erick ought to spend at least one night beneath her roof, and give the
family the chance of learning to know him a little better and to have Erick another day in
their midst.

All the children as well as Erick supported, louder and always louder, the mother's request,
and the beleaguered grandfather had to give in. Ritz and Edi ran with much delight and noise
down the stairs to seat themselves proudly in the coach, and thus drive to the inn, where both
must tell to the guests present, who had changed their consultation place from the church to
the inn, what they knew of the strange gentleman. And so it came about that on the same Sunday
afternoon, all Upper and Lower Wooders, as well as the Middle Lotters, knew Erick's family
and fate, and they had to talk loud and zealously before every door, over this change of luck
that had come to Erick.

In the parsonage, too, the evening was spent with unusually animated conversation. How much
had to be told to the grandfather of the happenings of the last and all former days, and Erick
had to throw in a question now and then, which referred to the distant estate, for his thoughts
always travelled back to that spot.

"Is Mother's white pony still alive, Grandfather?" he once suddenly asked.

The beautiful pony had long been put away, was the answer. "But you shall have one just like
your mother's, my boy. I can now bear the sight of it again," the grandfather said.

"Does old John still live, who made the barge and scraped the pebble-walks so nicely?" Erick
asked another time.

"What, you know of that too? Yes, indeed, he is still living, but the joy of seeing my daughter's
son whom I am bringing home will almost kill him," said the colonel, smiling contentedly at
the prospect.

When Sally and Erick told of their first meeting and Sally's call in Marianne's cottage, and
now it came out that it was the same Marianne who had pulled Erick out of the water, and who
had stuck so faithfully to his mother, the colonel suddenly jumped up and demanded that Erick
should go with him at once to Marianne for, from pure joy, they both had not thanked her as
they ought to. But the lady had foreseen such a request, and had not let Marianne go home.
And so she was called into the room and the colonel quickly took a chair and placed it in front
of him. Marianne had to sit down there and tell everything that she knew of his daughter, and
what she herself had heard and seen. Marianne was very glad to do that, and she spoke with
such love and reverence of the dear one, that at the end of her story, the colonel took her
hand and shook it heartily, but he could not speak. He rose and walked a few times up and down
the room, then he beckoned to Erick, took out of his wallet two papers and said: "Give this
to the good old woman, my boy; she shall have a few good days, she deserves it."

Erick had never before enjoyed the happiness of giving; never had he been able to give anything
to anyone, for he himself had never owned anything. An enormous joy rose up in his heart and
with bright eyes he stepped to Marianne and said: "Marianne, here is something for you, for
which you can buy whatever you like."

But when Marianne saw that on the paper was a number and several zeros after it, she struck
her hands together from astonishment and fright, and cried: "Dear God, I have not earned that,
this is riches!" And when she still kept her hands away from the money, Erick stuck the papers
deep into her pocket and said:

"Do you remember, Marianne, how you have said that you were growing old and could no longer
work as you used to, and therefore you had to give up the little house and go to your old cousin?
Now you can have your cottage again, with that money, and live in it happily."

"That I can, that I can," cried Marianne, forgetting in her joy that she did not want to take
the large present. Tears of joy ran down her cheeks, and from happiness and emotion she could
not utter a word of thanks, but kept on pressing the colonel's hand and then Erick's, and all
were glad with Marianne that she could move again into the cottage and keep it for always.
When at last they must separate for the night, the colonel pressed the house-mother's hand
once more and said: "My dear friend, you will understand with what gratitude my heart is full,
when I tell you that this is the first happy evening which I have had for the last twelve years."

Parting had to come the next morning. The mother took Erick in her arms and after she pressed
him to her heart, she said: "My dear Erick, never forget your mother's song! It has already
brought you once from the wrong road into the right one; it will guide you well as long as
you live. Keep it in your heart, my Erick."

When Erick noticed tears in the mother's eyes, then his grew wet, and when Sally noticed that,
she put both hands to her face and began to sob. Then Erick ran to his grandfather and pleadingly
cried: "Oh, Grandfather, can we not take Sally along? Don't you think we could?"

The grandfather smiled and answered: "I could not wish anything I should like better, my boy,
but we cannot rob the parsonage of all its children, all at once. But come, perhaps we can
make some arrangement. What does the mother think about it, if we were to take our little friend
next summer and bring her back for the winter, and do so every year?"

"Yes, yes," shouted Erick, "every, every year as long as we live! Will you give me your word
on it, Grandfather, now, right away?"

"To give you my word on it that it shall be so long as we live, that is asking much, my boy,"
said the grandfather smiling. "If now you, both of you, should wish, all at once, to have things
different--what then?"

"Oh, no, we are not so stupid," said Erick, "are we, Sally? Just you promise right away, Grandfather."

The latter held out his hand to the mother and said: "If it suits Mamma, then we both will
promise, that it shall continue, as long as it pleases our children."

The mother gave her hand on it, and now the two hands were pressed most heartily.

And the pastor said: "So, so! Agreements are made between the colonel and the parson's wife
behind my back, and I have nothing to do with it but say yes. Well, then, I will say at once
a firm yes and Amen."

With these words he too shook his guest's hand firmly and there remained only to take leave
from Ritz and Edi, both of whom he heartily invited to Denmark, wherein Erick strongly supported
him, adding: "And you know, Edi, when you are in Denmark, then you can go on ships, and study
there all about them. That will be a good thing for your calling." For Erick had not forgotten
that Edi intended to sail around the whole world, and that Ritz too wanted to be something
on the sea.

The grandfather was already entering the travelling coach, when Erick was held back by 'Lizebeth;
he had pressed into her hand a valuable paper, but she had put her apron to her eyes and had
begun to sob aloud behind it, and now she was holding Erick and said: "I think the Sir Grandfather,
he means it well as far as he sees things; but that he takes the dear boy away from us,--to
take one's little boy simply away--"

"I will come back again, 'Lizebeth, every year when the storks return. Therefore, good-bye,
'Lizebeth, until I come again."

Saying this, Erick quickly jumped into the carriage, and he wore the same velvet suit in which
he had come. For a long, long time he saw the white handkerchiefs wave, and he waved his in
answer, until the carriage, down below at the foot of the hill, turned around the corner and
disappeared into the woods. But they found they were mistaken, and that their fears were groundless;
for, before they could well recover from their surprise, every rioter
was gone, and not one was left on the grounds, or seen there again
during the meeting.

Sojourner was informed that as her audience reached the main road, some distance from the tents,
a few of the rebellious spirits refused to go on, and proposed returning; but their leaders said,'No-we
have promised to leave-all promised, and we must go, all go, and you shall none of you return
again.'She did not fall in love at first sight with the Northampton
Association, for she arrived there at a time when appearances did
not correspond with the ideas of associationists, as they had been
spread out in their writings; for their phalanx was a factory, and
they were wanting in means to carry out their ideas of beauty and
elegance, as they would have done in different circumstances.

But she thought she would make an effort to tarry with them one night, though that seemed to her
no desirable affair. But as soon as she saw that accomplished, literary, and refined persons
were living in that plain and simple manner, and submitting to the labors and privations incident
to such an infant institution, she said,'Well, if these can live here, I can.'Afterwards, she gradually became
pleased with, and attached to, the place and the people, as well she might; for it must have
been no small thing to have found a home in a'Community composed of some of the choicest spirits of
the age,'where all was characterized by an equality of feeling, a liberty of thought and speech, and
a largeness of soul, she could not have before met with, to the same
extent, in any of her wanderings. Our first knowledge of her was derived
from a friend who had resided for a time in the'Community,'and who,
after describing her, and singing one of her hymns, wished that we
might see her. But we little thought, at that time, that we should ever
pen these'simple annals'of this child of nature.

As they one and all now shouted with all their might, there was a terrible noise, so that the
horses jumped and shied. To this place she resorted daily, and in pressing times much more
frequently.

At
this time, her prayers, or, more appropriately,'talks with God,'were perfectly original and unique, and
would be well worth preserving, were it possible to give the tones and manner with the words; but
no adequate idea of them can be written while the tones and manner
remain inexpressible.

She would sometimes repeat,'Our Father in heaven,'in her Low Dutch, as taught her by her mother; after
that, all was from the suggestions of her own rude mind. It was an enormous
bunch of fire-red and yellow flowers, which Kaetheli held out to him, who with one foot on
the step was balancing over the colonel, and called to Erick: "Here, Erick, you must take a
nosegay from the garden with you, and when you come back, be sure you come and see us, do not
forget."

"Thank you, Kaetheli," Erick called back, "I shall certainly come to see you, a year from now.
Good-bye, Kaetheli, good-bye, Churi!"

Both jumped down, and the horses started.

"Look, look, Grandfather," cried Erick quickly, and pulled the grandfather in front of him,
so that he could see better. Most of the canneries were built and operated by Boston and Portland
firms.

At first the lobsters used for canning ranged in weight from 3 to
10 pounds. Gradually the average weight was reduced, until at last
it reached as low as 3/ 4 pound, or even less.

"What did your mother sing last, my boy?" he then asked. 

A letter from the Earl to the lady of his love, contained the suspicious
intimation-- "That he had not been unmindful in removing that obstacle
which hindered the full fruition of their contentments; that he had
endeavoured one expedient already which had failed, but he would lay
another which he doubted not would hit more sure."

This letter the Lady Sheffield accidentally dropped from her pocket; and being picked up and
given to the Lord Sheffield by his sister Holles, he read it with
anger and amazement.

The grandfather took Erick's hand lovingly in his, and so they drove toward the distant home.

