CHAPTER XIV.

FAREWELLS

During these busy weeks Mrs. Bolton had looked on in almost sullen silence, except when now
and then she had broken out into a passionate invective of her nephew's madness. He had never
been indifferent to the luxuries and refinements that give a charm to life, and her nature
could not comprehend how all these were poisoned at their source for him. He was eager to exchange
them for a chance of a true home, however lowly that home might be. He would willingly have
gone to the wilds of Siberia, if by so doing he could secure his wife's reformation An almost
feverish haste possessed him. To carry her away from Upton, from England, and to enter upon
a quite new career in a strange place, and to accomplish this plan quickly, absorbed him nearly
to the exclusion of any other thought. Mrs. Bolton felt herself very much neglected and greatly
aggrieved. Her plans were frustrated and her comforts threatened, yet her nephew hardly seemed
to think of her--he for whom she had done so much, who would not have been even rector of Upton
but for the late archdeacon.

Yet she relented a little from her displeasure as the day for parting came. She was as fond
of him and his boy as her nature would allow. Sophy had never been otherwise than an object
of her jealousy, and now she positively detested her. But when Mr. Chantrey came on the last
evening to sit an hour or two with her, and she saw, as with newly-opened eyes, his care-worn
face and wearied, feeble frame, her heart quite melted toward him.

"Remember," she said, eagerly, "you can come back again whenever yon choose, as soon as you
grow sure how useless this mad scheme is. I wish I could have persuaded you to keep on your
living, but yon are too wilful. You are welcome to draw upon me for funds to return at any
time, and I shall supply them gladly, and give you a home here. If yon find your expectations
fail, promise me to come back."

"And bring Sophy with me?" he asked, with almost a smile.

"No, no," she answered, shrinking involuntarily from the idea of having her in her house. "Oh,
my poor boy! what can yon do?"

"I can only bear the burden sin lays upon me," he said. "It is not permitted to us to shake
off the iniquities of others. All of us, more or less, must share in the sufferings of Christ,
bearing our portion of the sins of the world, which he bore, even unto death. I am ready to
die, if that will save my poor Sophy from her sin.

"But all that makes a Christian life so miserable!" exclaimed Mrs. Bolton.

"If in this life only we have hope in Christ, then are we of all men most miserable," he answered.

"And you would teach that we must give up everything," she cried, "all advantages, and blessings,
and innocent indulgences, and pleasures of every kind?"

"If the sins or temptations of those about call for such a sacrifice, we must give them up,
every one," he replied; "they are no longer blessings or innocent indulgences. If God calls
upon us to make some sacrifice, and we refuse to do it, do you think he will yield like some
weak parent, who will suffer his child to run the risk of serious injury rather than give him
present pain? The whole law of our life is sacrifice, as it was the law of Christ's life. It
is possible that some small self-denial at the right moment may spare us some costly expiation
later on. Christianity must perish if it loses sight of this law."

Mrs. Bolton did not answer him. Was he thinking of her own refusal to remove temptation out
of the way of his wife when she first began to fall into her fatal habit? He was not in reality
thinking of her at all, but her conscience pricked her, though her pride kept her silent. It
was such an unheard-of course for a person in her station, that none but fanatics could expect
her to take it. Quixotic, irrational, eccentric, visionary, were words that flitted incoherently
through her brain; but her tongue refused to utter them. Was Christ then so prudent, so cautious,
so anxious to secure innocent indulgences and to grasp worldly advantages? Could she think
of Him making life easy and comfortable to Himself while hundreds of thousands, nay, millions
of unhappy souls were hurrying each year into misery and ruin?

There was not much conversation between her and her nephew; for as a parting draws very near,
our memories refuse to serve us, and we forget to say the many, many things we may perhaps
never again have any season for saying. They bade one another farewell tenderly and sorrowfully;
and he went out, under the tranquil, starry sky, to wander once more beside the grave of his
little child, and under the old gray walls of his church. He had not known till now how hard
the trial would be. Up to this time he had been kept incessantly occupied with the numberless
arrangements necessary for so great a change; but these were all completed. He had said farewell
to his people; but the aching of his own great personal grief and shame had prevented him from
feeling that separation too forcibly. But the stir and excitement were over for the hour. Here
there were no cold, curious eyes fastened upon him; no fear of any harsh voice putting into
words of untimely lamentation the unacknowledged reason of his departure. The beloved familiar
places, so quiet yet so full of associations to him, had full power over his spirit; and he
could not resist them. The very ivy-leaves rustling against the tower, and the low, sleepy
chirp of the little birds disturbed by his tread, were dear to him. What, then, was the church
itself, every lineament of which he knew as well as if they were the features of a friend?
It was a beautiful old church; but if it had been the homeliest and barest building ever erected,
he must still have mourned over the pulpit, where he had taught his people; the pews, where
their listening faces were lifted up to him; the little vestry, where he had spent so many
peaceful hours. And the small mound, blooming with flowers, under which his child slept, how
much power had that over him! He paced restlessly up and down beneath the solemn yew-trees,
his heart breaking over them all. To-morrow by this time he would have left them far behind
him; and never more would his eyes behold them, or his feet tread the path he had so often
trod. They seemed to cry to him like living, sentient things. To and fro he wandered, while
the silent stars and the waning moon, lying low in the sky above the church, looked down upon
him with a pale and mournful light. At last the morning came; and he remembered that to-day
he must quit them all, and sail for a far-off country.

The vessel Mr. Chantrey had chosen for the long voyage was a merchant ship, sailing for Melbourne,
under a captain who had been an early friend of his own, and who knew the reason for his leaving
England. No other cabin passengers had taken berths on board her, though there were a few emigrants
in the steerage. Captain Scott, himself a water-drinker, had arranged that no intoxicating
beverages, in any form, should appear in the saloon. The steward was strictly forbidden to
supply them to any person except Mr. Chantrey himself. This enforced abstinence, the complete
change of scene, and the fresh sea-breezes during the protracted voyage, he reckoned upon as
the best means of restoring his wife to health of body and mind. Ann Holland, too, would watch
over her as vigilantly and patiently as himself; and Charlie would be always at hand to amuse
her with his boyish chatter. A bright hope was already dawning upon him.

CHAPTER XV.

IN DESPAIR

It was early in June when they set sail; and as the vessel floated down the Channel somewhat
slowly against the western wind Ann Holland spent most of her time on deck, watching, often
with dim eyes, the coasts of England, as they glided past her. She could still hardly realize
the change that had torn her so completely away from her old life. It made her brain swim to
think of Upton, and the old neighbors going about the streets on their daily business, and
the church-clock striking out the hours; and the sun rising and setting, and the days passing
by, and she not there. It felt all a dream to her; an odd, inexplicable, endless dream, which
never could become as real as the old days had been. Her thoughts were all busy with the past,
recalling faces and events long ago forgotten; she scarcely ever looked on to the end of the
voyage. The sea was calm, and the soft wind sang low among the rigging, while point after point
along the shores stole by, and were lost to sight almost unheeded, though she could not turn
her steadfast, sorrowful gaze from them till she could see them no more. Yet when Mr. Chantrey,
reproaching himself for bringing her, asked her if she repented, she was always ready to say
heartily that she would not go back, and leave them, for the world.

Charlie alone of them all was quite happy in the change. For the last nine months he had been
constantly at school; seldom going home, and then but for a day or two, when his mother was
at her best. The boy found himself all at once set free from school restraints, restored to
his father and mother, who had no one else to interest them; and with all the delights of a
ship and a voyage added to his other joys. He was wild with happiness. There was not one thing
left him to wish for; for even his mother's nervous state of health could not cast any gloom
upon his gladness. He had grown accustomed to think of her as a confirmed invalid; and when
she came on deck he would sit quietly beside her for a little while, and lower his clear young
voice in speaking to her, without feeling that his short-lived self-control damped his pleasure.
But she was not often there long enough to test his devotion too greatly.

Sophy Chantrey was passing through a season of intense misery, both of mind and body; more
bitter even than the wretchedness she had felt when she could indulge the craving that had
taken so deep a hold upon her. There was nothing voluntary in her abstinence, and consequently
neither pleasure nor pride in being able to exercise self-command. Her health was greatly enfeebled;
and her mind had been weakened almost to childishness. She felt as if her husband was treating
her cruelly; yet she could see keenly that it was she who had brought ruin upon his future
prospects, as well as those of her boy. She had never been able to sink into utter indifference;
and she could not forget, strive as she would, all the happy past, and the unutterably wretched
present. Here, on board ship, there was no chance for her to procure the narcotics, with which
she had lulled her self-reproaches formerly. Her longing for such stimulants amounted almost
to delirium. She could not sleep for want of them; and all day long she thought of them, and
cried for them, until her husband and Ann Holland could scarcely persevere in refusing them
to her. It seemed to them at times as if she must lose her reason, the little that remained
to her, and become insane, unless they yielded to her vehement entreaties. Even when, after
the first week was gone, and the craving was in some measure deadened, her spirits did not
rally. She would lie still on deck when her husband carried her there, or on the narrow berth
in their cabin, with eyes closed, and hands listlessly folded, an image of despair.

"Sophy!" he cried one day, when she had not stirred, or raised her eyelids for hours; "Sophy,
do you wish to kill me?"

"I have killed you," she muttered, still without moving, or looking at him.

"Sophy," he answered, "you are dreaming Look up, and see me here alive, beside you Life lies
before us yet; for you and me together."

"No" she said, "don't I know it is death to you to be tied to me as you are? I am a curse to
you, and you hate and loathe me, as I do myself. But we cannot get rid of each other, you and
me. Oh! if I could but die, and set you free!"

"I do not hate you," he answered, tenderly; "you are still very dear to me. I do not wish to
be free from you."

"Then you ought," she cried, with sudden passion; "you ought to hate that which degrades and
shames you. I am dragging you down to ruin; you and Charlie. Do you think I do not know it?
Oh! if I could but die. Perhaps I may live for many, many years yet; live to be an old woman,
a drunken old wretch! Think what it will be to live for years and years with a lost creature
like me. It is death, and worse than death, for you."

"But why should you be lost?" he asked; "have you never thought of One who came to seek and
to save that which is lost?"

"Yes; He found me once," she said, in tones of despair, "He found me once; but I strayed away
again, wilfully, in spite of His love, and all He had done for me. I knew what He had done,
and how He loved me; yet I went away from Him wilfully. I chose ruin; and now He leaves me
to my choice."

"This is the delusion of a sick brain," he answered; "you have no power to think rightly of
our Lord. Listen to what I can tell you about Him, and His love for you."

"No," she interrupted; "none of you others know, you people who have never fallen like me.
You do not know what it is to feel yourselves given up and sold to sin. You and Ann Holland
think you can save me by keeping temptation out of my way; but I know that as soon as it comes
again I shall be as weak as water against it."

"Have you no wish to be saved, then?" he asked, his heart sinking within him at her hopeless words.

"Wish to be saved!" she repeated; "did the rich man in torments wish to be saved? He only asked
for one drop of water to cool his tongue but for a moment. He knew he could not be saved, and
he did not pray for it."

"Do you think that I have no wish for your salvation?" he asked. "Am I leaving you in your
sin? Have I done nothing, given up nothing, to secure it? Has Ann Holland given up nothing?"

"Oh! you have," she cried. "You are doing all you can for me, but it is useless."

"Christ has done more," he said. "His love for you passes ours infinitely. Then if you have
not wearied out ours, can you possibly exhaust his? He can stoop to you in all your misery
and sinfulness, if you will but stretch out your hand toward Him. There is no sin He will not
forgive, and none He cannot conquer, if you will but rouse yourself to work with Him. Against
your own will He cannot save you."

"I will try," she murmured.

Yet time after time the same subject, almost in the same words, was renewed. Sophy's enfeebled
brain could not long retain the thought of a divine love and power, which was ceaselessly though
secretly striving to reclaim her. There was no opportunity for her to exert her own will, for
she could not be tempted in her present circumstances, and the strength gained by such an exertion
was impossible to her. Again and again, with untiring patience, did Mr. Chantrey give ear to
her despairing utterances, and meet them with soothing arguments. But often he felt himself
on the verge of despair, doubtful of the truths he was trying so earnestly to implant again
in her heart. In the smooth happy days of old, both of them had believed them. But now he asked
himself, Does God indeed care? Does He see and know? Is He near at hand, and not afar off?

Their vessel had entered the tropical seas, and a profound unbroken monotony reigned around
them. They had not sighted land since the shores of England had sunk below the horizon. A waste
of waters encircled them, and a dead calm prevailed. Through the sultry and hazy atmosphere
no rain fell in cooling showers. Day after day the sea was of perfect stillness, and an oppressive
silence, as of death, brooded over the low, regular heaving of the waters. The dry torrid heat
was exhausting, and the ship with its idle sails made but little way across the quiet sea.
Mr. Chantrey's weakened frame suffered greatly, and even Ann Holland's brave and cheery spirit
almost sank into despondency.

"If it hadn't been for Mrs. Chantrey," she thought mournfully, "we should all have been at
Upton now, as happy as the day's long. The summer's at its height there, and the harvest is
being gathered in. How cool it would be under the chestnut-trees, or under the church walls!
Mr. Chantrey's sinking, plain enough, and what is to become of us if he should die before we
get to that foreign land? Dear, dear! whoever would go to sea if they could get only a place
to lay their heads on land?"

CHAPTER XVI.

A LONG VOYAGE

It was a dreary and monotonous time. After the sun had gone down, red and sullen, through the
haze, and when the ship left a long track of phosphorescent light sparkling behind it, Mr.
Chantrey would pace up and down the deck, as he had often walked to and fro in the churchyard
paths in the starlight. He had many things to think of. For his wife his hope was strengthening;
a dim star shone before him in the future. Her brain was gradually regaining clearness, and
her mind strength. Something of the old buoyancy and elasticity was returning to her, for she
would play sometimes with her child merrily, and her laugh was like music to him. But how would
it be in the hour of temptation, which must come? She said her craving for stimulants was passing
away; but how would she bear being again able to procure them? He would watch over her and
guard her as long as he lived, but what would become of her if he should die?

This last question was becoming every day more and more urgent. The exhausting oppressive heat
and the protracted voyage were sapping his strength, and he knew it. The fresh sweet sea-breezes
on which he had reckoned had failed him, and he was consciously nearer death than when he left
England. He longed eagerly for life and health, that he might see his wife and child in happier
circumstances before he died. To leave them thus seemed intolerable to him. What was he to
do with his boy? He could not leave him in the care of a mother not yet delivered from the
bondage of such a fatal sin. Yet to separate him harshly from her would almost certainly doom
her to continue in it. If life might be spared to him only a few years longer, he would probably
see her once more a fitting guardian for their child. The growing hope for her, the dim dread
for himself--these two held alternate sway over him as he paced to and fro under the southern
skies.

Captain Scott, his friend, urged upon him that there was one remedy open to him, and only one
on board the ship. The long stress and strain upon his physical as well as his mental health
had weakened him until his strength was slowly ebbing away; his heart beat feebly, and his
whole system had fallen under a nervous depression. Now was the time when, as a medicine, the
alcohol, which was poison and death to his wife, would prove restoration to him. Could he but
keep up his vital powers until the voyage was ended, all would be well with him. His life might
be prolonged for those few years he so ardently desired. He could still watch over his wife,
and protect his child during boyhood, and die in peace--young perhaps, but having accomplished
what he had set his mind upon. But Sophy? How could she bear this unexpected temptation? He
did not suppose he could effectually conceal it from her, for of late she had clung to him
like a child, following him about humbly and meekly, with a touching dependence upon him, striving
to catch his eye and to smile faintly when he looked at her, as a child might do who was seeking
to win forgiveness. She was very feeble and delicate still, her appetite was as dainty as his
own, and the heat oppressed her almost as much as himself. Yet that which might save him would
certainly destroy her.

Day after day the debate with Captain Scott was resumed. But there was no real debate in his
own mind. He would gladly take the remedy if he could do so with safety to his wife, but not
for a thousand lives would he endanger her soul. Not for the certainty of prolonging his own
years would he take from her the merest chance of overcoming her sin. To do it for an uncertainty
was impossible.

There was hope for him still, if the vessel could but get past these sultry seas into a cooler
climate. One good fresh sea-breeze would do him more good than any stimulant, and they were
slowly gliding to latitudes where they might meet them at any hour. Once out of the tropics,
and around the Cape of Good Hope, there would be no fear of exhausting heat in the air they
breathed. All his languor would be gone and the rest of the voyage would bring health and vigor
to his fevered frame. Only let them double the Cape, and a new life in a new world lay before them.

His brain felt confused and delirious at times, but he knew it so well that he grew used to
sit down silently in the bow of the ship, and let the dizzy dreams pass over him, careful not
to alarm his wife or Ann Holland. Cool visions of the pleasant English home he had quitted
for ever; the shadows and the calm of his church, where the sunshine slanted in through narrow
windows made green with ivy-leaves; the rustling of leaves in the elm-trees on his lawn in
the soft low wind of a summer's evening; the deep grassy glades of thick woods, where he had
loved to walk; the murmuring and tinkling of hidden brooks--all these flitted across his clouded
mind as he sat speechless, with his throbbing head resting upon his hands. Often his wife crouched
beside him, herself silent, thinking sadly how he was brooding over all the wrong and injury
she had done him, yet fearing in her humiliation to ask him if it were so. Her repentance was
very deep and real, her love for him very true. Yet she dreaded the hour when she must face
temptation again. She could not even bear to think of it.

But shortly after they had passed the southern tropic, as they neared the Cape, the climate
changed suddenly, with so swift an alteration that from sultry heat of a torrid summer they
plunged almost directly into the biting cold of winter. As they doubled the Cape a strong north-west
gale met them, with icy cold in its blast. The ropes were frozen, and the sails grew stiff
with hoar-frost. Rough seas rolled about them, tossing the vessel like a toy upon their waves.
The change was too sudden and too great. All the passengers were ill, and David Chantrey lay
down in his low, narrow berth, knowing well that no hope was left to him.

CHAPTER XVII.

ALMOST SHIPWRECKED

Sophy Chantrey was left alone to nurse her dying husband, for Ann Holland was lying ill in
her own cabin, ignorant of his extremity. Captain Scott came down for a minute or two, but
he could not stay beside him. His presence was sorely needed on deck, yet he lingered awhile,
looking sorrowfully at his friend. Sophy watched him with a clearer and keener glance in her
blue eyes than he had ever yet seen in them.

"What is the matter with him?" she asked, following him to the cabin door.

"As near dying as possible," he answered, gruffly. He believed that a good life had been sacrificed
to a bad one, and he could not bring himself to speak softly to the woman who was the cause of it.

"Dying!" she cried. There was no color to fade from her face, but the light died from her eyes,
and the word faltered on her lips.

"Yes," he answered, "dying.