On February 5th (1865), part of the Second Connecticut was ordered to move out to support and
protect the flank of the Fifth Corps, which was engaged near Hatcher's Run, and accordingly
left the comforts of the camp and bivouacked for the night a few miles away. The history of
the regiment says: "It was bitter cold sleeping that night--so cold that half the men stood
or sat around fires all night. In the morning the movement was continued. A little before sundown
we crossed Hatcher's Run and moved by the flank directly into a piece of woods, the Second
Brigade under Hubbard leading the division and the Second Connecticut under Skinner leading
the brigade. Wounded men were being brought to the rear and the noise just ahead told of mischief
there. Colonel Hubbard filed to the left at the head of the column along a slight ridge and
about half the regiment had filed when troops of the Fifth Corps came running through to the
rear and at the same moment General Wheaton rode up with 'oblique to the left, oblique to the
left,' and making energetic gestures toward the rise of ground. The ridge was quickly gained
and fire opened just in time to head off a counter fire and charge that was already in progress,
but between the 'file left' and the 'left oblique' and the breaking of our ranks by troops
retreating from in front, and the vines and underbrush (which were so thick that they unhorsed
some of the staff officers) there was a good deal of confusion, and the line soon fell back
about ten rods, where it was reformed and a vigorous fire poured--somewhat at random--a little
to the left of our first position. The attempt of the enemy to get in on the left of the Fifth
Corps was frustrated. Our casualties were six wounded (some of them probably by our own men)
and one missing. The position was occupied that night, and the next day until about sundown,
when the brigade shifted some distance to the right and again advanced under an artillery fire
to within a short distance of the rebel batteries and built breastworks. The rebel picket shots
whistled overhead all the time the breastworks were building, but mostly too high to hurt anything
but the trees. At midnight the division moved back to quarters, arriving at sunrise. Having
taken a ration of whiskey which was ordered by Grant or somebody else in consideration of three
nights and two days on the bare ground in February, together with some fighting and a good
deal of hard marching and hard work, the men lay down to sleep as the sun rose up, and did
not rise up until the sun went down."

The routine of picket duty, inspection, alarms, and orders to be in readiness which came not
infrequently, continued for another succession of weeks, varied now by the constant arrival
of deserters from the enemy, who were coming into the Union lines singly and in large parties
almost daily, and revealing the desperate condition on the other side. Preparations went on
for what all felt was to be the final campaign; and this opened for the Second Connecticut
on March 25th, when the famous assault on Fort Stedman was made by the enemy, Lee's last attempt
at offensive operations.

This position, which was on the eastern side of the city of Petersburg, was gallantly attacked
and captured in the early morning; troops were at once called from all parts of the Union line
and hurried to the point of action, but the fort was retaken before the Second Connecticut
reached the scene, and the regiment was then moved to the southwest of the city before Fort
Fisher, a general assault of the whole extensive line having been ordered by Grant to develop
the weakness that Lee must have been obliged to make somewhere to carry out his plan against
Fort Stedman. The attack succeeded in gaining and holding a large share of the Confederate
picket line, a matter of great importance.

The Second Connecticut advanced to the charge late in the afternoon "as steadily as though
on a battalion drill," the regimental history relates. It captured a line of rifle pits and
kept on "under a combined artillery and musket fire. The air was blue with the little cast
iron balls from spherical-case shot which shaved the ground and exploded among the stumps just
in rear of the line at intervals of only a few seconds. Twenty of the Second Connecticut were
wounded--seven of them mortally--in reaching, occupying, and abandoning this position, which,
proving entirely untenable, was held only a few minutes. The line faced about and moved back
under the same mixed fire of solid shot, spherical case, and musketry, and halted not far in
front of the spot whence it had first moved forward. Other troops on the right now engaged
the battery and captured the rest of the picket line, and after half an hour the brigade again
moved forward to a position still further advanced than the previous one, where a permanent
picket line was established."

The week following this eventful day, which began with the capture of one of the Union works,
and ended with substantial gains along their front, saw intense activity on all sides. The
abandonment of Petersburg by Lee was now plainly imminent, and the preventing of his army's
escape was the paramount object. The whole vast field of operation about the besieged city
became a seething theater of complicated movement, and the Second Connecticut, under frequent
orders for immediate advance, was formed in line at all hours of the day or night, and excited
by a thousand rumors and orders given and revoked, but it did not finally leave its quarters
during this time.

On April 1st, Sheridan won his notable victory at Five Forks, and at midnight the regiment
was ordered out for a final charge on the defences so long held against them, which was to
be made early on the 2nd. All was made ready, the lines formed, and at daylight the signal
gun set the army in motion.

"The advance was over precisely the same ground as on the 25th of March, and the firing came
from the same battery and breastworks, although not quite so severe. Lieutenant-Colonel Skinner
and seven enlisted men were wounded--none of them fatally. There was but little firing on our
side, but with bayonets fixed the boys went in,--not in a very mathematical right line, but
strongly and surely,--on, on, until the first line was carried. Then, invigorated and greatly
encouraged by success, they pressed on--the opposing fire slackening every minute,--on, on,
through the abatis and ditch, up the steep bank, over the parapet into the rebel camp that
had but just been deserted. Then and there the long tried and ever faithful soldiers of the
Republic saw daylight--and such a shout as tore the concave of that morning sky it were worth
dying to hear." The same jubilant success was attending the whole army, though not without
sharp resistance on the part of the enemy in places.

