And yet the natural sunlight sometimes shone there; white clouds voyaged in the blue sky; the
interminable multitudes of roofs were washed with silver by the Moon, or cloaked with a mantle
of new-fallen snow. And the coming of Spring to London was to me not unlike the descent of
the maiden-goddess into Death's Kingdoms, when pink almond blossoms blew about her in the gloom,
and those shadowy people were stirred with faint longings for meadows and the shepherd's life.
Nor was there anything more virginal and fresh in wood or orchard than the shimmer of young
foliage, which, in May, dimmed with delicate green all the smoke-blackened London trees.

Fashion Plates

I like loitering at the bookstalls, looking in at the windows of printshops, and romancing
over the pictures I see of shepherdesses and old-fashioned Beauties. Tall and slim and crowned
with plumes in one period, in another these Ladies become as wide-winged as butterflies, or
float, large, balloon-like visions, down summer streets. And yet in all shapes they have always
(I tell myself) created thrilling effects of beauty, and waked in the breasts of modish young
men ever the same charming Emotion.

But then I have questioned this. Is the emotion always precisely the same? Is it true to say
that the human heart remains quite unchanged beneath all the changing fashions of frills and
ruffles? In this elegant and cruel Sentiment, I rather fancy that colour and shape do make
a difference. I have a notion that about 1840 was the Zenith, the Meridian Hour, the Golden
Age of the Passion. Those tight-waisted, whiskered Beaux, those crinolined Beauties, adored
one another, I believe, with a leisure, a refinement, and dismay not quite attainable at other
dates.

Mental Vice

There are certain hackneyed Thoughts that will force them-selves on me; I find my mind, especially
in hot weather, infested and buzzed about by moral Platitudes. "That shows--" I say to myself,
or, "How true it is--" or, "I really ought to have known!" The sight of a large clock sets
me off into musings on the flight of Time; a steamer on the Thames or lines of telegraph inevitably
suggest the benefits of Civilization, man's triumph over Nature, the heroism of Inventors,
the courage, amid ridicule and poverty, of Stephenson and Watt. Like faint, rather unpleasant
smells, these thoughts lurk about railway stations. I can hardly post a letter without marvelling
at the excellence and accuracy of the Postal System.

Then the pride in the British Constitution and British Freedom, which comes over me when I
see, even in the distance, the Towers of Westminster Palace--that Mother of Parliaments--it
is not much comfort that this should be chastened, as I walk down the Embankment, by the sight
of Cleopatra's Needle, and the Thought that it will no doubt witness the Fall of the British,
as it has that of other Empires, remaining to point its Moral, as old as Egypt, to Antipodeans
musing on the dilapidated bridges.

I am sometimes afraid of finding that there is a moral for everything; that the whole great
frame of the Universe has a key, like a box; has been contrived and set going by a well-meaning
but humdrum Eighteenth-century Creator. It would be a kind of Hell, surely, a world in which
everything could be at once explained, shown to be obvious and useful. I am sated with Lesson
and Allegory, weary of monitory ants, industrious bees, and preaching animals. The benefits
of Civilization cloy me. I have seen enough shining of the didactic Sun.

So gazing up on hot summer nights at the London stars, I cool my thoughts with a vision of
the giddy, infinite, meaningless waste of Creation, the blazing Suns, the Planets and frozen
Moons, all crashing blindly forever across the void of space.

The Organ of Life

Almost always In London--in the congregated uproar of streets, or in the noise that drifts
through wails and windows--you can hear the hackneyed melancholy of street music; a music which
sounds like the actual voice of the human Heart, singing the lost joys, the regrets, the loveless
lives of the people who blacken the pavements, or jolt along on the busses.

"Speak to me kindly," the hand-organ implores; "I'm all alone!" it screams amid the throng;
"thy Vows are all broken," it laments in dingy courtyards, "And light is thy Fame." And of
hot summer afternoons, the Cry for Courage to Remember, or Calmness to Forget, floats in with
the smell of paint and asphalt--faint and sad--through open office windows.

Humiliation

"My own view is," I began, but no one listened. At the next pause, "I always say," I remarked,
but again the loud talk went on. Someone told a story. When the laughter had ended, "I often
think--"; but looking round the table I could catch no friendly or attentive eye. It was humiliating,
but more humiliating the thought that Sophocles and Goethe would have always commanded attention,
while the lack of it would not have troubled Spinoza or Abraham Lincoln.

Green Ivory

What a bore it is, waking up in the morning always the same person.

I should like to be refined and melancholy, the victim of a hopeless passion; to love in the
old, stilted way, with impossible Adoration and Despair under the pale-faced Moon.

I wish I could get up; I wish I were the world's greatest Violinist. I wish I had lots of silver,
and first Editions, and green ivory.

In The Park

"Yes," I said one afternoon in the Park, as I looked rather contemptuously at the people of
Fashion, moving slow and well-dressed in the sunshine, "but how about the others, the Courtiers
and Beauties and Dandies of the past? They wore fine costumes, and glittered for their hour
in the summer air. What has become of them?" I somewhat rhetorically asked. They were all dead
now. Their day was over. They were cold in their graves.

And I thought of those severe spirits who, in garrets far from the Park and Fashion, had scorned
the fumes and tinsel of the noisy World.

But, good Heavens! these severe spirits were, it occurred to me, all, as a matter of fact,
quite as dead as the others.

The Correct

I am sometimes visited by a suspicion that everything isn't quite all right with the Righteous;
that the Moral Law speaks in muffled and dubious tones to those who listen most scrupulously
for its dictates. I feel sure I have detected a look of doubt and misgiving in the eyes of
its earnest upholders.

But there is no such shadow or cloud on the faces in Club windows, or in the eyes of drivers
of four-in-hands, or of fashionable young men walking down Piccadilly. For these live by a
Rule which has not been drawn down from far-off and questionable skies, and needs no sanction;
what they do is Correct, and that is all. Correctly dressed from head to foot, they pass, with
correct speech and thoughts and gestures, correctly across the roundness of the Earth.

"Where Do I Come In?"

When I read in the Times about India and all its problems and populations; when I look at the
letters in large type of important personages, and find myself face to face with the Questions,
Movements, and great Activities of the Age, "Where do I come in?" I ask myself uneasily.

Then in the great Times-reflected world I find the corner where I play my humble but necessary
part. For I am one of the unpraised, unrewarded millions without whom Statistics would be a
bankrupt science. It is we who are born, who marry, who die, in constant ratios; who regularly
lose so many umbrellas, post just so many unaddressed letters every year. And there are enthusiasts
among us who, without the least thought of their own convenience, allow omnibuses to run over
them; or throw themselves month by month, in fixed numbers, from the London bridges.

Microbes

But how Is one to keep free from those mental microbes that worm-eat people's brains--those
Theories and Diets and Enthusiasms and infectious Doctrines that we are always liable to catch
from what seem the most innocuous contacts? People go about laden with germs; they breathe
creeds and convictions on you whenever they open their mouths. Books and newspapers are simply
creeping with them--the monthly Reviews seem to have room for nothing else. Wherewithal then
shall a young man cleanse his way; and how shall he keep his mind immune to Theosophical speculations,
and novel schemes of Salvation?

Can he ever be sure that he won't be suddenly struck down by the fever of Funeral, or of Spelling
Reform, or take to his bed with a new Sex Theory?

But is this struggle for a healthy mind in a maggoty universe really after all worth it? Are
there not soporific dreams and sweet deliriums more soothing than Reason? If Transmigration
can make clear the dark Problem of Evil; if Mrs. Mary Baker Eddy can free us from the dominion
of Death; if the belief that Bacon wrote Shakespeare gives a peace that the world cannot give,
why pedantically reject such kindly solace? Why not be led with the others by still waters,
and be made to lie down in green pastures?

The Quest

"We walk alone in the world," the Moralist, at the end of his essay on Ideal Friendship, writes
somewhat sadly, "Friends such as we desire are dreams and fables," Yet we never quite give
up the hope of finding them. But what awful things happen to us? what snubs, what set-downs
we experience, what shames and disillusions. We can never really tell what these new unknown
persons may do to us. Sometimes they seem nice, and then begin to talk like gramophones. Sometimes
they grab at us with moist hands, or breathe hotly on our necks, or make awful confidences,
or drench us from sentimental slop-pails. And too often, among the thoughts in the loveliest
heads, we come on nests of woolly caterpillars.

And yet we brush our hats, pull on our gloves, and go out and ring door-bells.

The Kaleidoscope

I find in my mind, in its miscellany of ideas and musings, a curious collection of little landscapes
and pictures, shining and fading for no reason. Sometimes they are views in no way remarkable-the
corner of a road, a heap of stones, an old gate. But there are many charming pictures, too:
as I read, between my eyes and book, the Moon sheds down on harvest fields her chill of silver;
I see autumnal avenues, with the leaves falling, or swept in heaps; and storms blow among my
thoughts, with the rain beating forever on the fields. Then Winter's upward glare of snow appears;
or the pink and delicate green of Spring in the windy sunshine; or cornfields and green waters,
and youths bathing in Summer's golden heats.

And as I walk about, certain places haunt me: a cathedral rises above a dark blue foreign town,
the colour of ivory in the sunset light; now I find myself in a French garden full of lilacs
and bees, and shut-in sunshine, with the Mediterranean lounging and washing outside its walls;
now in a little college library, with busts, and the green reflected light of Oxford lawns--and
again I hear the bells, reminding me of the familiar Oxford hours.

Oxford Street

One late winter afternoon in Oxford Street, amid the noise of vehicles and voices that filled
that dusky thoroughfare, as I was borne onward with the crowd past the great electric-lighted
shops, a holy Indifference filled my thoughts. Illusion had faded from me; I was not touched
by any desire for the goods displayed in those golden windows, nor had I the smallest share
in the appetites and fears of all those moving and anxious faces. And as I listened with Asiatic
detachment to the London traffic, its sound changed into something ancient and dissonant and
sad--into the turbid flow of that stream of Craving which sweeps men onward through the meaningless
cycles of Existence, blind and enslaved forever. But I had reached the farther shore, the Harbour
of Deliverance, the Holy City; the Great Peace beyond all this turmoil and fret compassed me
around. Om Mani padme hum--I murmured the sacred syllables, smiling with the pitying smile
of the Enlightened One on his heavenly lotus.

Then, in a shop-window, I saw a neatly fitted suit-case. I liked that suit-case; I desired
to possess it. Immediately I was enveloped by the mists of Illusion, chained once more to the
Wheel of Existence, whirled onward along Oxford Street in that turbid stream of wrong-belief,
and lust, and sorrow, and anger.

Beauty

Among all the ugly mugs of the world we see now and then a face made after the divine pattern.
Then, a wonderful thing happens to us; the Blue Bird sings, the golden Splendour shines, and
for a queer moment everything seems meaningless save our impulse to follow those fair forms,
to follow them to the clear Paradises they promise.

Plato assures us that these moments are not (as we are apt to think them) mere blurs and delusions
of the senses, but divine revelations; that in a lovely face we see imaged, as in a mirror,
the Absolute Beauty--; it is Reality, flashing on us in the cave where we dwell amid shadows
and darkness. Therefore we should follow these fair forms, and their shining footsteps will
lead us upward to the highest heaven of Wisdom. The Poets, too, keep chanting this great doctrine
of Beauty in grave notes to their golden strings. Its music floats up through the skies so
sweet, so strange, that the very Angels seem to lean from their stars to listen.

But, O Plato, O Shelley, O Angels of Heaven, what scrapes you do get us into!

The Power of Words

I thanked the club porter who helped me into my coat, and stepped out lightly into the vastness
and freshness of the Night. And as I walked along my eyes were dazzling with the glare I had
left; I still seemed to hear the sound of my speech, and the applause and laughter.

And when I looked up at the Stars, the great Stars that bore me company, streaming over the
dark houses as I moved, I felt that I was the Lord of Life; the mystery and disquieting meaninglessness
of existence--the existence of other people, and of my own, were solved for me now. As for
the Earth, hurrying beneath my feet, how bright was its journey; how shining the goal toward
which it went swinging--you might really say leaping--through the sky.

"I must tell the Human Race of this!" I heard my voice; saw my prophetic gestures, as I expounded
the ultimate meaning of existence to the white, rapt faces of Humanity. Only to find the words--that
troubled me; were there then no words to describe this Vision--divine--intoxicating?

And then the Word struck me; the Word people would use. I stopped in the street; my Soul was
silenced like a bell that snarls at a jarring touch. I stood there awhile and meditated on
language, its perfidious meanness, the inadequacy, the ignominy of our vocabulary, and how
Moralists have spoiled our words by distilling into them, as into little vials of poison, all
their hatred of human joy. Away with that police-force of brutal words which bursts in on our
best moments and arrests our finest feelings! This music within me, large, like the song of
the stars--like a Glory of Angels singing--"No one has any right to say I am drunk!" I shouted.

Self-Analysis

"Yes, aren't they odd, the thoughts that float through one's mind for no reason? But why not
be frank--I suppose the best of us are shocked at times by the things we find ourselves thinking.
Don't you agree," I went on, not noticing (until it was too late) that all other conversation
had ceased, and the whole dinner-party was listening, "don't you agree that the oddest of all
are the improper thoughts that come into one's head--the unspeakable words I mean, and Obscenities?"
When I remember that remark, I hasten to enlarge my mind with ampler considerations. I think
of Space, and the unimportance in its unmeasured vastness, of our toy solar system; I lose
myself in speculations on the lapse of Time, reflecting how at the best our human life on this
minute and perishing planet is as brief as a dream.

The Voice of the World

"And what are you doing now?" The question of these school contemporaries of mine, and their
greeting the other day in Piccadilly (I remember how shabby I felt as I stood talking to them)--for
a day or two that question haunted me. And behind their well-bred voices I seemed to hear the
voice of Schoolmasters and Tutors, of the Professional Classes, and indeed of all the world.
What, as a plain matter of fact, was I doing, how did I spend my days? The life-days which
I knew were numbered, and which were described in sermons and on tombstones as so irrevocable,
so melancholy-brief.

I decided to change my life. I too would be somebody in my time and age; my contemporaries
should treat me as an important person. I began thinking of my endeavours, my studies by the
midnight lamp, my risings at dawn for stolen hours of self-improvement.

But alas, the day, the little day, was enough just then. It somehow seemed enough, just to
be alive in the Spring, with the young green of the trees, the smell of smoke in the sunshine;
I loved the old shops and books, the uproar darkening and brightening in the shabby daylight.
Just a run of good-looking faces--and I was always looking for faces--would keep me amused.
And London was but a dim-lit stage on which I could play in fancy any part I liked. I woke
up in the morning like Byron to find myself famous; I was drawn like Chatham to St. Paul's,
amid the cheers of the Nation, and sternly exclaimed with Cromwell, "Take away that bauble,"
as I sauntered past the Houses of Parliament.

And Anyhow

And anyhow, soon, so soon (in only seven million years or thereabouts the Encyclopaedia said)
this Earth would grow cold, all human activities end, and the last wretched mortals freeze
to death in the dim rays of the dying Sun.

Drawbacks

I should be all right.... If it weren't for these sudden visitations of Happiness, these downpourings
of Heaven's blue, little invasions of Paradise, or waftings to the Happy Islands, or whatever
you may call these disconcerting Moments, I should be like everybody else, and as blameless
a rate-payer as any in our Row.

Talk

Once in a while, when doors are closed and curtains drawn on a group of free spirits, the miracle
happens, and Good Talk begins. 'Tis a sudden illumination--the glow, it may be of sanctified
candles, or, more likely, the blaze around a cauldron of gossip.

Is there an ecstasy or any intoxication like it? Oh? to talk, to talk people into monsters,
to talk one's self out of one's clothes, to talk God from His heaven, and turn everything in
the world into a bright tissue of phrases!

These Pentecosts and outpourings of the spirit can only occur very rarely, or the Universe
itself would be soon talked out of existence.

The Church of England

I have my Anglican moments; and as I sat there that Sunday afternoon, in the Palladian interior
of the London Church, and listened to the unexpressive voices chanting the correct service,
I felt a comfortable assurance that we were in no danger of being betrayed into any unseemly
manifestations of religious fervour. We had not gathered together at that performance to abase
ourselves with furious hosannas before any dark Creator of an untamed Universe, no Deity of
freaks and miracles and sinister hocus-pocus; but to pay our duty to a highly respected Anglican
First Cause--undemonstrative, gentlemanly and conscientious--whom, without loss of self-respect,
we could sincerely and decorously praise.

Misgiving

We were talking of people, and a name familiar to us all was mentioned. We paused and looked
at each other; then soon, by means of anecdotes and clever touches, that personality was reconstructed,
and seemed to appear before us, large, pink, and life-like, and gave a comic sketch of itself
with appropriate poses.

"Of course," I said to myself, "this sort of thing never happens to me." For the notion was
quite unthinkable, the notion I mean of my own dear image, called up like this without my knowledge,
to turn my discreet way of life into a cake-walk.

Sanctuaries

She said, "How small the world is after all!"

I thought of China, of a holy mountain in the West of China, full of legends and sacred trees
and demon-haunted caves. It is always enveloped in mountain mists; and in that white thick
air I heard the faint sound of bells, and the muffled footsteps of innumerable pilgrims, and
the reiterated mantra, Nam-Mo, O-mi-to-Fo, which they murmur as they climb its slopes. High
up among its temples and monasteries marched processions of monks, with intoned services, and
many prostrations, and lighted candles that glimmer through the fog. There in their solemn
shrines stood the statues of the Arahats, and there, seated on his white elephant, loomed immense
and dim, the image of Amitabha, the Lord of the Western Heavens.

She said "Life is so complicated!" Climbing inaccessible cliffs of rock and ice, I shut myself
within a Tibetan monastery beyond the Himalayan ramparts. I join with choirs of monks, intoning
their deep sonorous dirges and unintelligible prayers; I beat drums, I clash cymbals, and blow
at dawn from the Lamasery roofs conches, and loud discordant trumpets. And wandering through
those vast and shadowy halls, as I tend the butter-lamps of the golden Buddhas, and watch the
storms that blow across the barren mountains, I taste an imaginary bliss, and then pass on
to other scenes and incarnations along the endless road that leads me to Nirvana.

"But I do wish you would tell me what you really think?"

I fled to Africa, into the depths of the dark Ashanti forest. There, in its gloomiest recesses,
where the soil is stained with the blood of the negroes He has eaten, dwells that monstrous
Deity of human shape and red colour, the great Fetish God, Sasabonsum. I like Sasabonsum: other
Gods are sometimes moved to pity and forgiveness, but to Him such weakness is unknown. He is
utterly and absolutely implacable; no gifts or prayers, no holocausts of human victims can
appease, or ever, for one moment, propitiate Him.

Symptoms

"But there are certain people I simply cannot stand. A dreariness and sense of death come over
me when I meet them--I really find it difficult to breathe when they are in the room, as if
they had pumped all the air out of it. Wouldn't it be dreadful to produce that effect on people!
But they never seem to be aware of it. I remember once meeting a famous Bore; I really must
tell you about it, it shows the unbelievable obtuseness of such people."

I told this and another story or two with great gusto, and talked on of my experiences and
sensations, till suddenly I noticed, in the appearance of my charming neighbour, something--a
slightly glazed look in her eyes, a just perceptible irregularity in her breathing--which turned
that occasion for me into a kind of Nightmare.

Shadowed

