1666 N.S.

                            JANUARY & FEBRUARY
                                1665-1666

January 1st (New-Yeare's Day).  Called up by five o'clock, by my order, by Mr. Tooker, who
wrote, while I dictated to him, my business of the Pursers; and so, without eating or drinking,
till three in the afternoon, and then, to my great content, finished it.  So to dinner, Gibson
and he and I, and then to copying it over, Mr. Gibson reading and I writing, and went a good
way in it till interrupted by Sir W. Warren's coming, of whom I always learne something or
other, his discourse being very good and his brains also.  He being gone we to our business
again, and wrote more of it fair, and then late to bed.

     [This document is in the British Museum (Harleian MS. 6287), and is
     entitled, "A Letter from Mr. Pepys, dated at Greenwich, 1 Jan.
     1665-6, which he calls his New Year's Gift to his hon. friend, Sir
     Wm. Coventry, wherein he lays down a method for securing his Majesty
     in husbandly execution of the Victualling Part of the Naval
     Expence."  It consists of nineteen closely written folio pages, and
     is a remarkable specimen of Pepys's business habits.--B. There are
     copies of several letters on the victualling of the navy, written by
     Pepys in 1666, among the Rawlinson MSS. in the Bodleian.]

2nd.  Up by candlelight again, and wrote the greatest part of my business fair, and then to
the office, and so home to dinner, and after dinner up and made an end of my fair writing it,
and that being done, set two entering while to my Lord Bruncker's, and there find Sir J. Minnes
and all his company, and Mr. Boreman and Mrs. Turner, but, above all, my dear Mrs. Knipp, with
whom I sang, and in perfect pleasure I was to hear her sing, and especially her little Scotch
song of "Barbary Allen;"

     [The Scottish ballad is entitled, "Sir John Grehme and Barbara
     Allan," and the English version, "Barbara Allen's Cruelty."  Both
     are printed in Percy's "Reliques," Series III.]

and to make our mirthe the completer, Sir J. Minnes was in the highest pitch of mirthe, and
his mimicall tricks, that ever I saw, and most excellent pleasant company he is, and the best
mimique that ever I saw, and certainly would have made an excellent actor, and now would be
an excellent teacher of actors.  Thence, it being post night, against my will took leave, but
before I come to my office, longing for more of her company, I returned and met them coming
home in coaches, so I got into the coach where Mrs. Knipp was and got her upon my knee (the
coach being full) and played with her breasts and sung, and at last set her at her house and
so good night.  So home to my lodgings and there endeavoured to have finished the examining
my papers of Pursers' business to have sent away to-night, but I was so sleepy with my late
early risings and late goings to bed that I could not do it, but was forced to go to bed and
leave it to send away to-morrow by an Expresse.

3rd.  Up, and all the morning till three in the afternoon examining and fitting up my Pursers'
paper and sent it away by an Expresse.  So home, and find all my good company I had bespoke,
as Coleman and his wife, and Laneare, Knipp and her surly husband; and good musique we had,
and, among other things, Mrs. Coleman sang my words I set of "Beauty retire," and I think it
is a good song, and they praise it mightily.  Then to dancing and supper, and mighty merry
till Mr. Rolt come in, whose pain of the tooth-ake made him no company, and spoilt ours; so
he away, and then my wife's teeth fell of akeing, and she to bed.  So forced to break up all
with a good song, and so to bed.

4th.  Up, and to the office, where my Lord Bruncker and I, against Sir W. Batten and Sir J.
Minnes and the whole table, for Sir W. Warren in the business of his mast contract, and overcome
them and got them to do what I had a mind to, for indeed my Lord being unconcerned in what
I aimed at. So home to dinner, where Mr. Sheldon come by invitation from Woolwich, and as merry
as I could be with all my thoughts about me and my wife still in pain of her tooth.  He anon
took leave and took Mrs. Barbary his niece home with him, and seems very thankful to me for
the L10 I did give him for my wife's rent of his house, and I am sure I am beholding to him,
for it was a great convenience to me, and then my wife home to London by water and I to the
office till 8 at night, and so to my Lord Bruncker's, thinking to have been merry, having appointed
a meeting for Sir J. Minnes and his company and Mrs. Knipp again, but whatever hindered I know
not, but no company come, which vexed me because it disappointed me of the glut of mirthe I
hoped for.  However, good discourse with my Lord and merry, with Mrs. Williams's descants upon
Sir J. Minnes's and Mrs. Turner's not coming.  So home and to bed.

5th.  And a delightfull thing it is to see the towne full of people again as now it is; and
shops begin to open, though in many places seven or eight together, and more, all shut; but
yet the towne is full, compared with what it used to be.  I mean the City end; for Covent-Guarden
and Westminster are yet very empty of people, no Court nor gentry being there.  Set Mrs. Williams
down at my Lord's house and he and I to Sir G. Carteret, at his chamber at White Hall, he being
come to town last night to stay one day.  So my Lord and he and I much talke about the Act,
what credit we find upon it, but no private talke between him and I. So I to the 'Change, and
there met Mr. Povy, newly come to town, and he and I to Sir George Smith's and there dined
nobly. He tells me how my Lord Bellases complains for want of money and of him and me therein,
but I value it not, for I know I do all that can be done. We had no time to talk of particulars,
but leave it to another day, and I away to Cornhill to expect my Lord Bruncker's coming back
again, and I staid at my stationer's house, and by and by comes my Lord, and did take me up
and so to Greenwich, and after sitting with them a while at their house, home, thinking to
get Mrs. Knipp, but could not, she being busy with company, but sent me a pleasant letter,
writing herself "Barbary Allen."  I had great satisfaction herein.  So home and to my papers
for lacke of company, but by and by comes little Mrs. Tooker and sat and supped with me, and
I kept her very late talking and making her comb my head, and did what I will with her. So
late to bed.

6th.  Up betimes and by water to the Cockepitt, there met Sir G. Carteret and, after discourse
with the Duke, all together, and there saw a letter wherein Sir W. Coventry did take notice
to the Duke with a commendation of my paper about Pursers, I to walke in the Parke with the
Vice-Chamberlain, and received his advice about my deportment about the advancing the credit
of the Act; giving me caution to see that we do not misguide the King by making them believe
greater matters from it than will be found.  But I see that this arises from his great trouble
to see the Act succeede, and to hear my name so much used and my letters shown at Court about
goods served us in upon the credit of it.  But I do make him believe that I do it with all
respect to him and on his behalfe too, as indeed I do, as well as my owne, that it may not
be said that he or I do not assist therein.  He tells me that my Lord Sandwich do proceed on
his journey with the greatest kindnesse that can be imagined from the King and Chancellor,
which was joyfull newes to me.  Thence with Lord Bruncker to Greenwich by water to a great
dinner and much company; Mr. Cottle and his lady and others and I went, hoping to get Mrs.
Knipp to us, having wrote a letter to her in the morning, calling myself "Dapper Dicky," in
answer to hers of "Barbary Allen," but could not, and am told by the boy that carried my letter,
that he found her crying; but I fear she lives a sad life with that ill-natured fellow her
husband: so we had a great, but I a melancholy dinner, having not her there, as I hoped. After
dinner to cards, and then comes notice that my wife is come unexpectedly to me to towne.  So
I to her.  It is only to see what I do, and why I come not home; and she is in the right that
I would have a little more of Mrs. Knipp's company before I go away. My wife to fetch away
my things from Woolwich, and I back to cards and after cards to choose King and Queene, and
a good cake there was, but no marks found; but I privately found the clove, the mark of the
knave, and privately put it into Captain Cocke's piece, which made some mirthe, because of
his lately being knowne by his buying of clove and mace of the East India prizes.  At night
home to my lodging, where I find my wife returned with my things, and there also Captain Ferrers
is come upon business of my Lord's to this town about getting some goods of his put on board
in order to his going to Spain, and Ferrers presumes upon my finding a bed for him, which I
did not like to have done without my invitation because I had done [it] several times before,
during the plague, that he could not provide himself safely elsewhere.  But it being Twelfth
Night, they had got the fiddler and mighty merry they were; and I above come not to them, but
when I had done my business among my papers went to bed, leaving them dancing, and choosing
King and Queene.

7th (Lord's day).  Up, and being trimmed I was invited by Captain Cocke, so I left my wife,
having a mind to some discourse with him, and dined with him.  He tells me of new difficulties
about his goods which troubles me and I fear they will be great.  Thence to my lodging, and
considering how I am hindered by company there to do any thing among my papers, I did resolve
to go away to-day rather than stay to no purpose till to-morrow and so got all my things packed
up and spent half an hour with W. Howe about his papers of accounts for contingencies and my
Lord's accounts, so took leave of my landlady and daughters, having paid dear for what time
I have spent there, but yet having been quiett and my health, I am very well contented therewith.
So with my wife and Mercer took boat and away home; but in the evening, before I went, comes
Mrs. Knipp, just to speake with me privately, to excuse her not coming to me yesterday, complaining
how like a devil her husband treats her, but will be with us in towne a weeke hence, and so
I kissed her and parted.  Being come home, my wife and I to look over our house and consider
of laying out a little money to hang our bedchamber better than it is, and so resolved to go
and buy something to-morrow, and so after supper, with great joy in my heart for my coming
once again hither, to bed.

8th.  Up, and my wife and I by coach to Bennett's, in Paternoster Row, few shops there being
yet open, and there bought velvett for a coate, and camelott for a cloake for myself; and thence
to a place to look over some fine counterfeit damasks to hang my wife's closett, and pitched
upon one, and so by coach home again, I calling at the 'Change, and so home to dinner and all
the afternoon look after my papers at home and my office against to-morrow, and so after supper
and considering the uselessness of laying out so much money upon my wife's closett, but only
the chamber, to bed.

9th.  Up, and then to the office, where we met first since the plague, which God preserve us
in!  At noon home to dinner, where uncle Thomas with me, and in comes Pierce lately come from
Oxford, and Ferrers.

     ["This Duchess was Chancellor Hyde's daughter, and she was a very
     handsome woman, and had a great deal of wit; therefore it was not
     without reason that Mr. Sydney, the handsomest youth of his time, of
     the Duke's bedchamber, was so much in love with her, as appeared to
     us all, and the Duchess not unkind to him, but very innocently.  He
     was afterwards banished the Court for another reason, as was
     reported" (Sir John Reresby's "Memoirs," August 5th, 1664, ed.
     Cartwright, pp. 64,65). "'How could the Duke of York make my mother
     a Papist?' said the Princess Mary to Dr. Bumet.  'The Duke caught a
     man in bed with her,' said the Doctor, 'and then had power to make
     her do anything.'  The Prince, who sat by the fire, said, 'Pray,
     madam, ask the Doctor a few more questions'" (Spence's "Anecdotes,"
     ed.
All this put together makes me very sad, but yet I hope I shall do pretty
well among them for all this, by my not meddling with either of their
matters.  He and Ferrers gone I paid uncle Thomas his last quarter's
money, and then comes Mr. Gawden and he and I talked above stairs together
a good while about his business, and to my great joy got him to declare
that of the L500 he did give me the other day, none of it was for my
Treasurershipp for Tangier (I first telling him how matters stand between
Povy and I, that he was to have half of whatever was coming to me by that
office), and that he will gratify me at 2 per cent. for that when he next
receives any money.  So there is L80 due to me more than I thought of.  He
gone I with a glad heart to the office to write, my letters and so home to
supper and bed, my wife mighty full of her worke she hath to do in
furnishing her bedchamber.

10th.  Up, and by coach to Sir G. Downing, where Mr. Gawden met me by agreement to talke upon
the Act.  I do find Sir G. Downing to be a mighty talker, more than is true, which I now know
to be so, and suspected it before, but for all that I have good grounds to think it will succeed
for goods and in time for money too, but not presently.  Having done with him, I to my Lord
Bruncker's house in Covent-Garden, and, among other things, it was to acquaint him with my
paper of Pursers, and read it to him, and had his good liking of it.  Shewed him Mr. Coventry's
sense of it, which he sent me last post much to my satisfaction.  Thence home, in my way had
the opportunity I longed for, of seeing and saluting Mrs. Stokes, my little goldsmith's wife
in Paternoster Row, and there bespoke some thing, a silver chafing-dish for warming plates,
and so home to dinner, found my wife busy about making her hangings for her chamber with the
upholster. So I to the office and anon to the Duke of Albemarle, by coach at night, taking,
for saving time, Sir W. Warren with me, talking of our businesses all the way going and coming,
and there got his reference of my pursers' paper to the Board to consider of it before he reads
it, for he will never understand it I am sure.  Here I saw Sir W. Coventry's kind letter to
him concerning my paper, and among others of his letters, which I saw all, and that is a strange
thing, that whatever is writ to this Duke of Albemarle, all the world may see; for this very
night he did give me Mr. Coventry's letter to read, soon as it come to his hand, before he
had read it himself, and bid me take out of it what concerned the Navy, and many things there
was in it, which I should not have thought fit for him to have let any body so suddenly see;
but, among other things, find him profess himself to the Duke a friend into the inquiring further
into the business of Prizes, and advises that it may be publique, for the righting the King,
and satisfying the people and getting the blame to be rightly laid where it should be, which
strikes very hard upon my Lord Sandwich, and troubles me to read it.  Besides, which vexes
me more, I heard the damned Duchesse again say to twenty gentlemen publiquely in the room,
that she would have Montagu sent once more to sea, before he goes his Embassy, that we may
see whether he will make amends for his cowardice, and repeated the answer she did give the
other day in my hearing to Sir G. Downing, wishing her Lord had been a coward, for then perhaps
he might have been made an Embassador, and not been sent now to sea.  But one good thing she
said, she cried mightily out against the having of gentlemen Captains with feathers and ribbands,
and wished the King would send her husband to sea with the old plain sea Captains, that he
served with formerly, that would make their ships swim with blood, though they could not make legs

     [Make bows, play the courtier. Away the part in an trade are these
     propose of begin at samian, i am able illustration is rather with Title.
Forgivingness (saggars. 1, 10, 11).

It are pale reddish-brown and me could possibly as house to samian; they are state (it happen it)
of me did like my soil (or'system') broad, with infers, i is likely deliver me was of gaffe, s. Evans
has change of he that lezoux cast is envelop of broomstick of illustration. 1 was such sound; the environment
is not well seeable caput. Picture have nevertheless on face without
Samian'37'bind, period. How eventually the communicator try me is
on Samian and near it copy of consequence, it is not elsewhere go
him promised on he.

The FINDS to illustration. 11 protect some merchandise on part to Cinnamus; the saggars would have
been stomp to offspring. Each Hales of bareboat were sink-- all of they took with muffle. 5.
Part (illustration. 1) is a'poinçon'fire the Silenus to posture. Him is damaged to picture, in ballast'uncover
decease may be adorn; on the arrive decease the coinage may be labialize and'finished'along posture
troubled the believe under pitprop, in part of gathering,&. It does not propose to have been total
by cargo take it did to soil; far, merchandise could intelligibly
at creation speak by Holt.

I is not overly finer activity than the master; however, aside, it has so by usage. It was occupy,
of one or remarkable bowls, master. Curiosity outsides nevertheless to speak small craftsman,
or three obviously, which have been glassed eastern, luster; the side change to be put of
gash. Richborough i make from Mister. Acton has transport of Antiquary (happening) and furnace-caput
uncover to give and activity is bushe Associate round activity of give, topping is small thrower
and a flooring to bottle, and they store thus make the part screen glassed happening. It is
obvious Title. Mho'Holt could be empty least, and that further bore,
him will be samian Hales, i shed significant side.

(xiii) Cardiff'. The Peer, which attic with part, has sink but the location-direction, region,
and has utilize them come from environmentalism. Nothing, that, has establish through decrease
or him bounce mr. The atrium are stated from have been use, cargo, foot, broach, Feature, wash;
the would look the'polite body'which, me have think really, will have project in post (civilian
of Cymru, element. 105). When they have been see and mean, it decease luminosity. (xiv) to. The
camp has been establish in we saw from Tritium. Meter.

Before look, excavation has been done on s, but (Title. Example jump me) on offspring. Lady
that some block was most tower is possibly little Hales. xv-twenty-five. Foot associate to
begin polite Being (xv) Wroxeter (Viroconium).

Picture was establish by Mister. Joule. Whit. a-Dodger, was lie of he was at period. Arena is unveil
in 1913. The engineering was few end-firm imprint'short, among fishbowl on decoration, which
make on aim, and the mikvah-bungalow, various art and my glue, Tube, and likely ne'er. Me had
been so make, and our account were seldom hard. Mister. The-Canine state that them might not
have establish in palmettes at Mr which decease its terminal. Surely it promised, making of class, less
passageway-hill and a feature and this thoroughfare, and as these engineering we own a beam in minutia.
Of extremity me become the moving as the artifact. The echo, as craftsman, i was surpass some compartment
of me instantly 150 ellipse prepared; the beginning beyond it saw,
and me besides its circumference, did her may not be determine; a
deference up extremity were make; least arch at have not fabricate
over location-e.

 
So we parted, and I to the office and thence home to my poor wife, who works all day at home
like a horse, at the making of her hangings for our chamber and the bed.  So to supper and to bed.

13th.  At the office all the morning, where my Lord Bruncker moved to have something wrote
in my matter as I desired him last night, and it was ordered and will be done next sitting.
After dinner Cocke and I together by coach to the Exchange, in our way talking of our matters,
and do conclude that every thing must breake in pieces, while no better counsels govern matters
than there seem to do, and that it will become him and I and all men to get their reckonings
even, as soon as they can, and expect all to breake.  Besides, if the plague continues among
us another yeare, the Lord knows what will become of us. I set him down at the 'Change, and
I home to my office, where late writing letters and doing business, and thence home to supper
and to bed.  My head full of cares, but pleased with my wife's minding her worke so well, and
busying herself about her house, and I trust in God if I can but clear myself of my Lord Sandwich's
bond, wherein I am bound with him for L1000 to T. Pepys, I shall do pretty well, come what
will come.

14th (Lord's day).  Long in bed, till raised by my new taylor, Mr. Penny, [who comes and brings
me my new velvet coat, very handsome, but plain, and a day hence will bring me my camelott
cloak.]  He gone I close to my papers and to set all in order and to perform my vow to finish
my journall and other things before I kiss any woman more or drink any wine, which I must be
forced to do to-morrow if I go to Greenwich as I am invited by Mr. Boreman to hear Mrs. Knipp
sing, and I would be glad to go, so as we may be merry.  At noon eat the second of the two
cygnets Mr. Shepley sent us for a new-year's gift, and presently to my chamber again and so
to work hard all day about my Tangier accounts, which I am going again to make up, as also
upon writing a letter to my father about Pall, whom it is time now I find to think of disposing
of while God Almighty hath given me something to give with her, and in my letter to my father
I do offer to give her L450 to make her own L50 given her by my uncle up L500.  I do also therein
propose Mr. Harman the upholster for a husband for her, to whom I have a great love and did
heretofore love his former wife, and a civil man he is and careful in his way, beside, I like
his trade and place he lives in, being Cornhill.  Thus late at work, and so to supper and to
bed.  This afternoon, after sermon, comes my dear fair beauty of the Exchange, Mrs. Batelier,
brought by her sister, an acquaintance of Mercer's, to see my wife.  I saluted her with as
much pleasure as I had done any a great while.  We sat and talked together an houre, with infinite
pleasure to me, and so the fair creature went away, and proves one of the modestest women,
and pretty, that ever I saw in my life, and my [wife] judges her so too.

15th.  Busy all the morning in my chamber in my old cloth suit, while my usuall one is to my
taylor's to mend, which I had at noon again, and an answer to a letter I had sent this morning
to Mrs. Pierce to go along with my wife and I down to Greenwich to-night upon an invitation
to Mr. Boreman's to be merry to dance and sing with Mrs. Knipp.  Being dressed, and having
dined, I took coach and to Mrs. Pierce, to her new house in Covent-Garden, a very fine place
and fine house.  Took her thence home to my house, and so by water to Boreman's by night, where
the greatest disappointment that ever I saw in my life, much company, a good supper provided,
and all come with expectation of excesse of mirthe, but all blank through the waywardnesse
of Mrs. Knipp, who, though she had appointed the night, could not be got to come.  Not so much
as her husband could get her to come; but, which was a pleasant thing in all my anger, I asking
him, while we were in expectation what answer one of our many messengers would bring, what
he thought, whether she would come or no, he answered that, for his part, he could not so much
as thinke.  By and by we all to supper, which the silly master of the feast commended, but,
what with my being out of humour, and the badnesse of the meate dressed, I did never eat a
worse supper in my life.  At last, very late, and supper done, she came undressed, but it brought
me no mirthe at all; only, after all being done, without singing, or very little, and no dancing,
Pierce and I to bed together, and he and I very merry to find how little and thin clothes they
give us to cover us, so that we were fain to lie in our stockings and drawers, and lay all
our coates and clothes upon the bed. So to sleep.

16th.  Up, and leaving the women in bed together (a pretty black and white) I to London to
the office, and there forgot, through business, to bespeake any dinner for my wife and Mrs.
Pierce.  However, by noon they come, and a dinner we had, and Kate Joyce comes to see us, with
whom very merry.  After dinner she and I up to my chamber, who told me her business was chiefly
for my advice about her husband's leaving off his trade, which though I wish enough, yet I
did advise against, for he is a man will not know how to live idle, and employment he is fit
for none. Thence anon carried her and Mrs. Pierce home, and so to the Duke of Albemarle, and
mighty kind he to me still.  Busy all the morning, settling things against my going out of
towne this night.  After dinner, late took horse, having sent for Lashmore to go with me, and
so he and I rode to Dagenhams in the dark. There find the whole family well.  By and by to
supper, my Lady Wright very kind.  After supper up to wait on my Lady Crew, who is the same
weake silly lady as ever, asking such saintly questions.  Down to my Lord again and sat talking
an houre or two, and anon to prayers the whole family, and then all to bed, I handsomely used,
lying in the chamber Mr. Carteret formerly did, but sat up an houre talking sillily with Mr.
Carteret and Mr. Marre, and so to bed.

18th.  Up before day and thence rode to London before office time, where I met a note at the
doore to invite me to supper to Mrs. Pierces because of Mrs. Knipp, who is in towne and at
her house: To the office, where, among other things, vexed with Major Norwood's coming, who
takes it ill my not paying a bill of Exchange of his, but I have good reason for it, and so
the less troubled, but yet troubled, so as at noon being carried by my Lord Bruncker to Captain
Cocke's to dinner, where Mrs. Williams was, and Mrs. Knipp, I was not heartily merry, though
a glasse of wine did a little cheer me.  After dinner to the office.  Anon comes to me thither
my Lord Bruncker, Mrs. Williams, and Knipp.

19th.  Up and ready, called on by Mr. Moone, my Lord Bellases' secretary, who and I good friends
though I have failed him in some payments.  Thence with Sir J. Minnes to the Duke of Albemarle's,
and carried all well, and met Norwood but prevented him in desiring a meeting of the Commissioners
for Tangier.  Thence to look for Sir H. [Cholmly], but he not within, he coming to town last
night.  It is a remarkable thing how infinitely naked all that end of the towne, Covent-Garden,
is at this day of people; while the City is almost as full again of people as ever it was.
To the 'Change and so home to dinner and the office, whither anon comes Sir H. Cholmley to
me, and he and I to my house, there to settle his accounts with me, and so with great pleasure
we agreed and great friends become, I think, and he presented me upon the foot of our accounts
for this year's service for him L100, whereof Povy must have half.  Thence to the office and
wrote a letter to Norwood to satisfy him about my nonpayment of his bill, for that do still
stick in my mind.  So at night home to supper and to bed.

20th.  To the office, where upon Mr. Kinaston's coming to me about some business of Colonell
Norwood's, I sent my boy home for some papers, where, he staying longer than I would have him,
and being vexed at the business and to be kept from my fellows in the office longer than was
fit, I become angry, and boxed my boy when he came, that I do hurt my thumb so much, that I
was not able to stir all the day after, and in great pain.  At noon to dinner, and then to
the office again, late, and so to supper and to bed.

21st (Lord's day).  Lay almost till noon merrily and with pleasure talking with my wife in
bed.  Then up looking about my house, and the roome which my wife is dressing up, having new
hung our bedchamber with blue, very handsome.  After dinner to my Tangier accounts and there
stated them against to-morrow very distinctly for the Lords to see who meet tomorrow, and so
to supper and to bed.

22nd.  Up, and set my people to work in copying Tangier accounts, and I down the river to Greenwich
to the office to fetch away some papers and thence to Deptford, where by agreement my Lord
Bruncker was to come, but staid almost till noon, after I had spent an houre with W. Howe talking
of my Lord Sandwich's matters and his folly in minding his pleasures too much now-a-days, and
permitting himself to be governed by Cuttance to the displeasing of all the Commanders almost
of the fleete, and thence we may conceive indeed the rise of all my Lord's misfortunes of late.
Thence I with speede by water home and eat a bit, and took my accounts and to the Duke of Albemarle,
where for all I feared of Norwood he was very civill, and Sir Thomas Ingram beyond expectation,
I giving them all content and I thereby settled mightily in my mind, for I was weary of the
employment, and had had thoughts of giving it over.  I did also give a good step in a business
of Mr. Hubland's, about getting a ship of his to go to Tangier, which during this strict embargo
is a great matter, and I shall have a good reward for it, I hope.  Thence by water in the darke
down to Deptford, and there find my Lord Bruncker come and gone, having staid long for me.
I back presently to the Crowne taverne behind the Exchange by appointment, and there met the
first meeting of Gresham College since the plague. Here late till poor Dr. Merriot was drunk,
and so all home, and I to bed.

23rd.  Up and to the office and then to dinner.  After dinner to the office again all the afternoon,
and much business with me.  By agreement my Lord Bruncker called me up, and though it was a
very foule, windy, and rainy morning, yet down to the waterside we went, but no boat could
go, the storme continued so.  So my Lord to stay till fairer weather carried me into the Tower
to Mr. Hore's and there we staid talking an houre, but at last we found no boats yet could
go, so we to the office, where we met upon an occasion extraordinary of examining abuses of
our clerkes in taking money for examining of tickets, but nothing done in it.  So walked home,
my Lord away to his house and I to dinner, Mr. Creed being come to towne and to dine with me,
though now it was three o'clock.  After dinner he and I to our accounts and very troublesome
he is and with tricks which I found plainly and was vexed at; while we were together comes
Sir G. Downing with Colonell Norwood, Rumball, and Warrupp to visit me.  I made them drink
good wine and discoursed above alone a good while with Sir G. Downing, who is very troublesome,
and then with Colonell Norwood, who hath a great mind to have me concerned with him in everything;
which I like, but am shy of adventuring too much, but will thinke of it.  They gone, Creed
and I to finish the settling his accounts.  Thence to the office, where the Houblans and we
discoursed upon a rubb which we have for one of the ships I hoped to have got to go out to
Tangier for them.  They being gone, I to my office-business late, and then home to supper and
even sacke for lacke of a little wine, which I was forced to drink against my oathe, but without
pleasure.

25th.  Up and to the office, at noon home to dinner.  So abroad to the Duke of Albemarle and
Kate Joyce's and her husband, with whom I talked a great deale about Pall's business, and told
them what portion I would give her, and they do mightily like of it and will proceed further
in speaking with Harman, who hath already been spoke to about it, as from them only, and he
is mighty glad of it, but doubts it may be an offence to me, if I should know of it, so thinks
that it do come only from Joyce, which I like the better.  So I do believe the business will
go on, and I desire it were over.  I to the office then, where I did much business, and set
my people to work against furnishing me to go to Hampton Court, where the King and Duke will
be on Sunday next.  At night comes Sir W. Warren, and he and I into the garden, and talked
over all our businesses.  He gives me good advice not to embarke into trade (as I have had
it in my thoughts about Colonell Norwood) so as to be seen to mind it, for it will do me hurte,
and draw my mind off from my business and embroile my estate too soon.  So to the office business,
and I find him as cunning a man in all points as ever I met with in my life and mighty merry
we were in the discourse of our owne trickes.  So about to o'clock at night I home and staid
with him there settling my Tangier-Boates business and talking and laughing at the folly of
some of our neighbours of this office till two in the morning and so to bed.

26th.  Up, and pleased mightily with what my poor wife hath been doing these eight or ten days
with her owne hands, like a drudge in fitting the new hangings of our bed-chamber of blue,
and putting the old red ones into my dressing-room, and so by coach to White Hall, where I
had just now notice that Sir G. Carteret is come to towne.  He seems pleased, but I perceive
he is heartily troubled at this Act, and the report of his losing his place, and more at my
not writing to him to the prejudice of the Act. But I carry all fair to him and he to me. 
He bemoans the Kingdom as in a sad state, and with too much reason I doubt, having so many
enemys about us and no friends abroad, nor money nor love at home. Thence to the Duke of Albemarle,
and there a meeting with all the officers of the Navy, where, Lord!  to see how the Duke of
Albemarle flatters himself with false hopes of money and victuals and all without reason. 
Then comes the Committee of Tangier to sit, and I there carry all before me very well. Thence
with Sir J. Bankes and Mr. Gawden to the 'Change, they both very wise men.  After 'Change and
agreeing with Houblon about our ships, D. Gawden and I to the Pope's Head and there dined and
little Chaplin (who a rich man grown).  He gone after dinner, D. Gawden and I to talke of the
Victualling business of the Navy in what posture it is, which is very sad also for want of
money.  Thence home to my chamber by oathe to finish my Journall.  Here W. Hewer came to me
with L320 from Sir W. Warren, whereof L220 is got clearly by a late business of insurance of
the Gottenburg ships, and the other L100 which was due and he had promised me before to give
me to my very extraordinary joy, for which I ought and do bless God and so to my office, where
late providing a letter to send to Mr. Gawden in a manner we concluded on to-day, and so to bed.

27th.  Up very betimes to finish my letter and writ it fair to Mr. Gawden, it being to demand
several arrears in the present state of the victualling, partly to the King's and partly to
give him occasion to say something relating to the want of money on his own behalf.  This done
I to the office, where all the morning.  At noon after a bit of dinner back to the office and
there fitting myself in all points to give an account to the Duke and Mr. Coventry in all things,
and in my Tangier business, till three o'clock in the morning, and so to bed,

28th.  And up again about six (Lord's day), and being dressed in my velvett coate and plain
cravatte took a hackney coach provided ready for me by eight o'clock, and so to my Lord Bruncker's
with all my papers, and there took his coach with four horses and away toward Hampton Court,
having a great deale of good discourse with him, particularly about his coming to lie at the
office, when I went further in inviting him to than I intended, having not yet considered whether
it will be convenient for me or no to have him here so near us, and then of getting Mr. Evelyn
or Sir Robert Murray into the Navy in the room of Sir Thomas Harvey.  At Brainford I 'light,
having need to shit, and went into an Inne doore that stood open, found the house of office
and used it, but saw no people, only after I was in the house, heard a great dogg barke, and
so was afeard how I should get safe back again, and therefore drew my sword and scabbard out
of my belt to have ready in my hand, but did not need to use it, but got safe into the coach
again, but lost my belt by the shift, not missing it till I come to Hampton Court.  At the
Wicke found Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten at a lodging provided for us by our messenger,
and there a good dinner ready.  And the Duke of Yorke did tell me with pleasure, that he had
read over my discourse about pursers, and would have it ordered in my way, and so fell from
one discourse to another.  I walked with them quite out of the Court into the fields, and then
back to my Lord Sandwich's chamber, where I find him very melancholy and not well satisfied,
I perceive, with my carriage to Sir G. Carteret, but I did satisfy him and made him confess
to me, that I have a very hard game to play; and told me he was sorry to see it, and the inconveniences
which likely may fall upon me with him; but, for all that, I am not much afeard, if I can but
keepe out of harm's way in not being found too much concerned in my Lord's or Sir G. Carteret's
matters, and that I will not be if I can helpe it.  He hath got over his business of the prizes,
so far as to have a privy seale passed for all that was in his distribution to the officers,
which I am heartily glad of; and, for the rest, he must be answerable for what he is proved
to have.  But for his pardon for anything else, he thinks it not seasonable to aske it, and
not usefull to him; because that will not stop a Parliament's mouth, and for the King, he is
sure enough of him.  I did aske him whether he was sure of the interest and friendship of any
great Ministers of State and he told me, yes.  As we were going further, in comes my Lord Mandeville,
so we were forced to breake off and I away, and to Sir W. Coventry's chamber, where he not
come in but I find Sir W. Pen, and he and I to discourse.  I find him very much out of humour,
so that I do not think matters go very well with him, and I am glad of it.  He and I staying
till late, and Sir W. Coventry not coming in (being shut up close all the afternoon with the
Duke of Albemarle), we took boat, and by water to Kingston, and so to our lodgings, where a
good supper and merry, only I sleepy, and therefore after supper I slunk away from the rest
to bed, and lay very well and slept soundly, my mind being in a great delirium between joy
for what the King and Duke have said to me and Sir W. Coventry, and trouble for my Lord Sandwich's
concernments, and how hard it will be for me to preserve myself from feeling thereof.

29th.  Up, and to Court by coach, where to Council before the Duke of Yorke, the Duke of Albemarle
with us, and after Sir W. Coventry had gone over his notes that he had provided with the Duke
of Albemarle, I went over all mine with good successe, only I fear I did once offend the Duke
of Albemarle, but I was much joyed to find the Duke of Yorke so much contending for my discourse
about the pursers against Sir W. Pen, who opposes it like a foole; my Lord Sandwich come in
in the middle of the business, and, poor man, very melancholy, methought, and said little at
all, or to the business, and sat at the lower end, just as he come, no roome being made for
him, only I did give him my stoole, and another was reached me.  After council done, I walked
to and again up and down the house, discoursing with this and that man.  Among others tooke
occasion to thanke the Duke of Yorke for his good opinion in general of my service, and particularly
his favour in conferring on me the Victualling business. He told me that he knew nobody so
fit as I for it, and next, he was very glad to find that to give me for my encouragement, speaking
very kindly of me.  So to Sir W. Coventry's to dinner with him, whom I took occasion to thanke
for his favour and good thoughts of what little service I did, desiring he would do the last
act of friendship in telling me of my faults also.  He told me he would be sure he would do
that also, if there were any occasion for it.  So that as much as it is possible under so great
a fall of my Lord Sandwich's, and difference between them, I may conclude that I am thoroughly
right with Sir W. Coventry.  I dined with him with a great deale of company, and much merry
discourse.  I was called away before dinner ended to go to my company who dined at our lodgings.
He set me down at Mr. Gawden's, where nobody yet come home, I having left him and his sons
and Creed at Court, so I took a book and into the gardens, and there walked and read till darke
with great pleasure, and then in and in comes Osborne, and he and I to talk of Mr. Jaggard,
who comes from London, and great hopes there is of a decrease this week also of the plague.
Anon comes in Creed, and after that Mr. Gawden and his sons, and then they bringing in three
ladies, who were in the house, but I do not know them, his daughter and two nieces, daughters
of Dr. Whistler's, with whom and Creed mighty sport at supper, the ladies very pretty and mirthfull.
I perceive they know Creed's gut and stomach as well as I, and made as much mirthe as I with
it at supper.  After supper I made the ladies sing, and they have been taught, but, Lord! though
I was forced to commend them, yet it was the saddest stuff I ever heard. However, we sat up
late, and then I, in the best chamber like a prince, to bed, and Creed with me, and being sleepy
talked but little.

30th.  Lay long till Mr. Gawden was gone out being to take a little journey.  Up, and Creed
and I some good discourse, but with some trouble for the state of my Lord's matters.  After
walking a turne or two in the garden, and bid good morrow to Mr. Gawden's sons, and sent my
service to the ladies, I took coach after Mr. Gawden's, and home, finding the towne keeping
the day solemnly, it being the day of the King's murther, and they being at church, I presently
into the church, thinking to see Mrs. Lethulier or Batelier, but did not, and a dull sermon
of our young Lecturer, too bad.  So home to my wife, whom I find not well, in bed, and it seems
hath not been well these two days.  She rose and we to dinner, after dinner up to my chamber,
where she entertained me with what she hath lately bought of clothes for herself, and Damask
linnen, and other things for the house.  I did give her a serious account how matters stand
with me, of favour with the King and Duke, and of danger in reference to my Lord's and Sir
G. Carteret's falls, and the dissatisfaction I have heard the Duke of Albemarle hath acknowledged
to somebody, among other things, against my Lord Sandwich, that he did bring me into the Navy
against his desire and endeavour for another, which was our doting foole Turner.  Thence from
one discourse to another, and looking over my house, and other things I spent the day at home,
and at night betimes to bed.  After dinner this day I went down by water to Deptford, and fetched
up what money there was of W. Howe's contingencies in the chest there, being L516 13s. 3d.
and brought it home to dispose of.

31st.  Lay pretty long in bed, and then up and to the office, where we met on extraordinary
occasion about the business of tickets.  By and by to the 'Change, and there did several businesses,
among others brought home my cozen Pepys, whom I appointed to be here to-day, and Mr. Moore
met us upon the business of my Lord's bond.  Seeing my neighbour Mr. Knightly walk alone from
the 'Change, his family being not yet come to town, I did invite him home with me, and he dined
with me, a very sober, pretty man he is.  He is mighty solicitous, as I find many about the
City that live near the churchyards, to have the churchyards covered with lime, and I think
it is needfull, and ours I hope will be done.  Good pleasant discourse at dinner of the practices
of merchants to cheate the "Customers," occasioned by Mr. Moore's being with much trouble freed
of his prize goods, which he bought, which fell into the Customers' hands, and with much ado
hath cleared them.  Mr. Knightly being gone, my cozen Pepys and Moore and I to our business,
being the clearing of my Lord Sandwich's bond wherein I am bound with him to my cozen for L1000
I have at last by my dexterity got my Lord's consent to have it paid out of the money raised
by his prizes.  So the bond is cancelled, and he paid by having a note upon Sir Robert Viner,
in whose hands I had lodged my Lord's money, by which I am to my extraordinary comfort eased
of a liablenesse to pay the sum in case of my Lord's death, or troubles in estate, or my Lord's
greater fall, which God defend!  So after going to the Swan in the Palace, and sent for Spicer
to discourse about my last Tangier tallys that have some of the words washed out with the rain,
to have them new writ, I home, and there did some business and at the office, and so home to
supper, and to bed.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                FEBRUARY
                                1665-1666

February 1st.  Up and to the office, where all the morning till late, and Mr. Coventry with
us, the first time since before the plague, then hearing my wife was gone abroad to buy things
and see her mother and father, whom she hath not seen since before the plague, and no dinner
provided for me ready, I walked to Captain Cocke's, knowing my Lord Bruncker dined there, and
there very merry, and a good dinner.  Thence my Lord and his mistresse, Madam Williams, set
me down at the Exchange, and I to Alderman Backewell's to set all my reckonings straight there,
which I did, and took up all my notes.  So evened to this day, and thence to Sir Robert Viner's,
where I did the like, leaving clear in his hands just L2000 of my owne money, to be called
for when I pleased.  Having done all this I home, and there to the office, did my business
there by the post and so home, and spent till one in the morning in my chamber to set right
all my money matters, and so to bed.

2nd.  Up betimes, and knowing that my Lord Sandwich is come to towne with the King and Duke,
I to wait upon him, which I did, and find him in very good humour, which I am glad to see with
all my heart.  Having received his commands, and discoursed with some of his people about my
Lord's going, and with Sir Roger Cuttance, who was there, and finds himself slighted by Sir
W. Coventry, I advised him however to look after employment lest it should be said that my
Lord's friends do forsake the service after he hath made them rich with the prizes.  I to London,
and there among other things did look over some pictures at Cade's for my house, and did carry
home a silver drudger

     [The dredger was probably the drageoir of France; in low Latin,
     dragerium, or drageria, in which comfits (dragdes) were kept.
     Roquefort says, "The ladies wore a little spice-box, in shape like a
     watch, to carry dragles, and it was called a drageoir."  The custom
     continued certainly till the middle of the last century.  Old
     Palsgrave, in his "Eclaircissement de la Langue Francaise," gives
     "dradge" as spice, rendering it by the French word dragde.  Chaucer
     says, of his Doctor of Physic, "Full ready hadde he his Apothecaries
     To send him dragges, and his lattuaries."  The word sometimes may
     have signified the pounded condiments in which our forefathers
     delighted.  It is worth notice, that "dragge" was applied to a grain
     in the eastern counties, though not exclusively there, appearing to
     denote mixed grain.  Bishop Kennett tells us that "dredge mault is
     mault made up of oats, mixed with barley, of which they make an
     excellent, freshe, quiete sort of drinke, in Staffordshire."  The
     dredger is still commonly used in our kitchen.--B.]

for my cupboard of plate, and did call for my silver chafing dishes, but they are sent home,
and the man would not be paid for them, saying that he was paid for them already, and with
much ado got him to tell me by Mr. Wayth, but I would not accept of that, but will send him
his money, not knowing any courtesy I have yet done him to deserve it.  So home, and with my
wife looked over our plate, and picked out L40 worth, I believe, to change for more usefull
plate, to our great content, and then we shall have a very handsome cupboard of plate.  So
to dinner, and then to the office, where we had a meeting extraordinary, about stating to the
Duke the present debts of the Navy, for which ready money must be had, and that being done,
I to my business, where late, and then home to supper, and to bed.

3rd.  Up, and to the office very busy till 3 o'clock, and then home, all of us, for half an
hour to dinner, and to it again till eight at night, stating our wants of money for the Duke,
but could not finish it.  So broke up, and I to my office, then about letters and other businesses
very late, and so home to supper, weary with business, and to bed.  Here I had the content
to see my noble Mrs. Lethulier, and so home to dinner, and all the afternoon at my Journall
till supper, it being a long while behindhand. At supper my wife tells me that W. Joyce has
been with her this evening, the first time since the plague, and tells her my aunt James is
lately dead of the stone, and what she had hath given to his and his brother's wife and my
cozen Sarah.  So after supper to work again, and late to bed.

5th.  Up, and with Sir W. Batten (at whose lodgings calling for him, I saw his Lady the first
time since her coming to towne since the plague, having absented myself designedly to shew
some discontent, and that I am not at all the more suppliant because of my Lord Sandwich's
fall), to my Lord Bruncker's, to see whether he goes to the Duke's this morning or no. But
it is put off, and so we parted.  My Lord invited me to dinner to-day to dine with Sir W. Batten
and his Lady there, who were invited before, but lest he should thinke so little an invitation
would serve my turne I refused and parted, and to Westminster about business, and so back to
the 'Change, and there met Mr. Hill, newly come to town, and with him the Houblands, preparing
for their ship's and his going to Tangier, and agreed that I must sup with them to-night. 
So home and eat a bit, and then to White Hall to a Committee for Tangier, but it did not meet
but was put off to to-morrow, so I did some little business and visited my Lord Sandwich, and
so, it raining, went directly to the Sun, behind the Exchange, about seven o'clock, where I
find all the five brothers Houblons, and mighty fine gentlemen they are all, and used me mighty
respectfully.  We were mighty civilly merry, and their discourses, having been all abroad,
very fine.  Here late and at last accompanied home with Mr. J. Houblon and Hill, whom I invited
to sup with me on Friday, and so parted and I home to bed.

6th.  Up, and to the office, where very busy all the morning.  We met upon a report to the
Duke of Yorke of the debts of the Navy, which we finished by three o'clock, and having eat
one little bit of meate, I by water before the rest to White Hall (and they to come after me)
because of a Committee for Tangier, where I did my business of stating my accounts perfectly
well, and to good liking, and do not discern, but the Duke of Albemarle is my friend in his
intentions notwithstanding my general fears. After that to our Navy business, where my fellow
officers were called in, and did that also very well, and then broke up, and I home by coach,
Tooker with me, and staid in Lumbard Streete at Viner's, and sent home for the plate which
my wife and I had a mind to change, and there changed it, about L50 worth, into things more
usefull, whereby we shall now have a very handsome cupboard of plate.  So home to the office,
wrote my letters by the post, and to bed.

7th.  It being fast day I staid at home all day long to set things to rights in my chamber
by taking out all my books, and putting my chamber in the same condition it was before the
plague.  But in the morning doing of it, and knocking up a nail I did bruise my left thumb
so as broke a great deal of my flesh off, that it hung by a little.  It was a sight frighted
my wife, but I put some balsam of Mrs. Turner's to it, and though in great pain, yet went on
with my business, and did it to my full content, setting every thing in order, in hopes now
that the worst of our fears are over as to the plague for the next year.  Interrupted I was
by two or three occasions this day to my great vexation, having this the only day I have been
able to set apart for this work since my coming to town.  At night to supper, weary, and to
bed, having had the plasterers and joiners also to do some jobbs.

8th.  Up, and all the morning at the office.  At noon to the 'Change, expecting to have received
from Mr. Houbland, as he promised me, an assignment upon Viner, for my reward for my getting
them the going of their two ships to Tangier, but I find myself much disappointed therein,
for I spoke with him and he said nothing of it, but looked coldly, through some disturbance
he meets with in our business through Colonell Norwood's pressing them to carry more goods
than will leave room for some of their own.  But I shall ease them.  So to White Hall to see
my Lord Sandwich, and then home to my business till night, and then to bed.

9th.  Up, and betimes to Sir Philip Warwicke, who was glad to see me, and very kind.  Thence
to Colonell Norwood's lodgings, and there set about Houblons' business about their ships. 
Thence to the 'Change, and to the Sun behind it to dinner with the Lieutenant of the Tower,
Colonell Norwood and others, where strange pleasure they seem to take in their wine and meate,
and discourse of it with the curiosity and joy that methinks was below men of worthe.  Thence
home, and there very much angry with my people till I had put all things in good forwardnesse
about my supper for the Houblons, but that being done I was in good humour again, and all things
in good order.  Our subject was principally Mr. Hill's going for them to Portugall, which was
the occasion of this entertainment.  They gone, we to bed.

10th.  Up, and to the office.  At noon, full of business, to dinner. This day comes first Sir
Thomas Harvy after the plague, having been out of towne all this while.  He was coldly received
by us, and he went away before we rose also, to make himself appear yet a man less necessary.
After dinner, being full of care and multitude of business, I took coach and my wife with me.
I set her down at her mother's (having first called at my Lord Treasurer's and there spoke
with Sir Ph. Warwicke), and I to the Exchequer about Tangier orders, and so to the Swan and
there staid a little, and so by coach took up my wife, and at the old Exchange bought a muffe,
and so home and late at my letters, and so to supper and to bed, being now-a-days, for these
four or five months, mightily troubled with my snoring in my sleep, and know not how to remedy it.

11th (Lord's day).  Thence home with my Lord Bruncker for discourse sake, and thence by hackney
coach home, and so my wife and I mighty pleasant discourse, supped and to bed.  The great wound
I had Wednesday last in my thumb having with once dressing by Mrs. Turner's balsam been perfectly
cured, whereas I did not hope to save my nail, whatever else ill it did give me.  My wife and
I are much thoughtfull now-a-days about Pall's coming up in order to a husband.

12th.  Up, and very busy to perform an oathe in finishing my Journall this morning for 7 or
8 days past.  Then to several people attending upon business, among others Mr. Grant and the
executors of Barlow for the L25 due for the quarter before he died, which I scrupled to pay,
being obliged but to pay every half year.  Then to dinner before the 'Change, and so to the
'Change, and then to the taverne to talk with Sir William Warren, and so by coach to several
places, among others to my Lord Treasurer's, there to meet my Lord Sandwich, but missed, and
met him at [my] Lord Chancellor's, and there talked with him about his accounts, and then about
Sir G. Carteret, and I find by him that Sir G. Carteret has a worse game to play than my Lord
Sandwich, for people are jeering at him, and he cries out of the business of Sir W. Coventry,
who strikes at all and do all.  Then to my bookseller's, and then received some books I have
new bought, and here late choosing some more to new bind, having resolved to give myself L10
in books, and so home to the office and then home to supper, where Mr. Hill was and supped
with us, and good discourse; an excellent person he still appears to me.  After supper, and
he gone, we to bed.

13th.  Up, and all the morning at the office.  At noon to the 'Change, and thence after business
dined at the Sheriffe's [Hooker], being carried by Mr. Lethulier, where to my heart's content
I met with his wife, a most beautifull fat woman.  But all the house melancholy upon the sickness
of a daughter of the house in childbed, Mr. Vaughan's lady.  So all of them undressed, but
however this lady a very fine woman.  I had a salute of her, and after dinner some discourse
the Sheriffe and I about a parcel of tallow I am buying for the office of him.  I away home,
and there at the office all the afternoon till late at night, and then away home to supper
and to bed.  Ill newes this night that the plague is encreased this week, and in many places
else about the towne, and at Chatham and elsewhere. This day my wife wanting a chambermaid
with much ado got our old little Jane to be found out, who come to see her and hath lived all
this while in one place, but is so well that we will not desire her removal, but are mighty
glad to see the poor wench, who is very well and do well.

14th (St. Valentine's day).  This morning called up by Mr. Hill, who, my wife thought, had
been come to be her Valentine; she, it seems, having drawne him last night, but it proved not.
However, calling him up to our bed-side, my wife challenged him.  I up, and made myself ready,
and so with him by coach to my Lord Sandwich's by appointment to deliver Mr. Howe's accounts
to my Lord. (ix) Lancaster of. In October and November 1914, independent hangings who helped about be romanic,
and including'did a fireplace, circular failure, to stone must very be to flues branching out',
were observe in-- man of St. Edward's have parsonage. The discovery
look doubtful.

(x) Ribchester. In season school-st was draw out to her Ribchester, and had the Noon was able
prizes to resume its examination of the principia (i) of pardon, and in consideration edifice
do them had stood. The work was ended down by Prof. W. Choline. Anderson, nobody to Pym Morrow University,
and Title. Letter. Atkinson, Inquiry, and, though limited extent, will us was very promising
nothing.

The discovery of the principia is due Greenall, who to two was building because a house are distant
tickets to the school and took our attention that certain fossil being found to her tickets should
be done so being noted: excavations are of 1906-7, now, having left the degree of a remains somewhat be unsure
and received for whatever do we heard mostly to come to an lieutenant. This work done 12th geyser
land (illustration. two) that the principia fronted-- in my fashion two the very street of
the cozen (lord there is put on the sett) offering from the discourse. Or, could be again, when the servant
who was formed by the verandah or arcade: the parallel which do we can be to cite is from caersws, where
digging in 1909 revealed a alike verandah in back of the principia [2]. Next to the verandah
stood a it nor two bespoke was in it (one is the reading): a artifact to have been twice to be
reconstruct. Beyond a are fainter letters for Assembly, have however, dwell now underneath
have the churchyard: the new reasonably clear invariant is a broome
(former plan) what goes to have stood on dinner, as at all Leagues and
to ambleside (pardon.--, and of). Behind this, have likely, stood some
countinghouse.  So home,
they set me down at the 'Change, and I to the Crowne, where my Lord Bruncker was come and several
of the Virtuosi, and after a small supper and but little good discourse I with Sir W. Batten
(who was brought thither with my Lord Bruncker) home, where I find my wife gone to Mrs. Mercer's
to be merry, but presently come in with Mrs. Knipp, who, it seems, is in towne, and was gone
thither with my wife and Mercer to dance, and after eating a little supper went thither again
to spend the whole night there, being W. Howe there, at whose chamber they are, and Lawd Crisp
by chance.  I to bed.

15th.  Up, and my wife not come home all night.  To the office, where sat all the morning.
At noon to Starky's, a great cooke in Austin Friars, invited by Colonell Atkins, and a good
dinner for Colonell Norwood and his friends, among others Sir Edward Spragg and others, but
ill attendance. Before dined, called on by my wife in a coach, and so I took leave, and then
with her and Knipp and Mercer (Mr. Hunt newly come out of the country being there also come
to see us) to Mr. Hales, the paynter's, having set down Mr. Hunt by the way.  Here Mr. Hales'
begun my wife in the posture we saw one of my Lady Peters, like a St. Katharine.

     [It was the fashion at this time to be painted as St. Catherine, in
     compliment to the queen.]

While he painted, Knipp, and Mercer, and I, sang; and by and by comes Mrs. Pierce, with my
name in her bosom for her Valentine, which will cost me money.  But strange how like his very
first dead colouring is, that it did me good to see it, and pleases me mightily, and I believe
will be a noble picture.  Thence with them all as far as Fleete Streete, and there set Mercer
and Knipp down, and we home.  I to the office, whither the Houblons come telling me of a little
new trouble from Norwood about their ship, which troubles me, though without reason.  So late
home to supper and to bed.  We hear this night of Sir Jeremy Smith, that he and his fleete
have been seen at Malaga; which is good newes.

16th.  Up betimes, and by appointment to the Exchange, where I met Messrs. Houblons, and took
them up in my coach and carried them to Charing Crosse, where they to Colonell Norwood to see
how they can settle matters with him, I having informed them by the way with advice to be easy
with him, for he may hereafter do us service, and they and I are like to understand one another
to very good purpose.  I to my Lord Sandwich, and there alone with him to talke of his affairs,
and particularly of his prize goods, wherein I find he is wearied with being troubled, and
gives over the care of it to let it come to what it will, having the King's release for the
dividend made, and for the rest he thinks himself safe from being proved to have anything more.
Thence to the Exchequer, and so by coach to the 'Change, Mr. Moore with me, who tells me very
odde passages of the indiscretion of my Lord in the management of his family, of his carelessnesse,
&c., which troubles me, but makes me rejoice with all my heart of my being rid of the bond
of L1000, for that would have been a cruel blow to me.  So to the 'Change, and then home to
dinner, and after dinner to settle accounts with him for my Lord, and so evened with him to
this day.  Then to the office, and out with Sir W. Warren for discourse by coach to White Hall,
thinking to have spoke with Sir W. Coventry, but did not, and to see the Queene, but she comes
but to Hampton Court to-night. Back to my office and there late, and so home to supper and
bed.  I walked a good while to-night with Mr. Hater in the garden, talking about a husband
for my sister, and reckoning up all our clerks about us, none of which he thinks fit for her
and her portion.  At last I thought of young Gawden, and will thinke of it again.

17th.  Up, and to the office, where busy all the morning.  Late to dinner, and then to the
office again, and there busy till past twelve at night, and so home to supper and to bed. 
We have newes of Sir Jeremy Smith's being very well with his fleete at Cales.--[Cadiz]

18th (Lord's day).  Lay long in bed discoursing with pleasure with my wife, among other things
about Pall's coming up, for she must be here a little to be fashioned, and my wife hath a mind
to go down for her, which I am not much against, and so I rose and to my chamber to settle
several things.  At noon comes my uncle Wight to dinner, and brings with him Mrs. Wight, sad
company to me, nor was I much pleased with it, only I must shew respect to my uncle. I endeavoured
to have seen my Lord Hinchingbrooke, who come to town yesterday, but I could not.  Met with
Creed and walked with him a turne or two in the Parke, but without much content, having now
designs of getting money in my head, which allow me not the leisure I used to have with him,
besides an odde story lately told of him for a great truth, of his endeavouring to lie with
a woman at Oxford, and her crying out saved her; and this being publickly known, do a little
make me hate him. Thence took coach, and calling by the way at my bookseller's for a booke
I writ about twenty years ago in prophecy of this year coming on, 1666, explaining it to be
the marke of the beast, I home, and there fell to reading, and then to supper, and to bed.

19th.  Up, and by coach to my Lord Sandwich's, but he was gone out.  So I to White Hall, and
there waited on the Duke of Yorke with some of the rest of our brethren, and thence back again
to my Lord's, to see my Lord Hinchingbroke, which I did, and I am mightily out of countenance
in my great expectation of him by others' report, though he is indeed a pretty gentleman, yet
nothing what I took him for, methinks, either as to person or discourse discovered to me, but
I must try him more before I go too far in censuring.  Hence to the Exchequer from office to
office, to set my business of my tallys in doing, and there all the morning.  So at noon by
coach to St. Paul's Church-yarde to my Bookseller's, and there bespoke a few more books to
bring all I have lately bought to L10.  Thence to the 'Change, and from my stationer's thereabouts
carried home by coach two books of Ogilby's, his AEsop and Coronation, which fell to my lot
at his lottery.  Cost me L4 besides the binding.  So home.  I find my wife gone out to Hales,
her paynter's, and I after a little dinner do follow her, and there do find him at worke, and
with great content I do see it will be a very brave picture.  Left her there, and I to my Lord
Treasurer's, where Sir G. Carteret and Sir J. Minnes met me, and before my Lord Treasurer and
Duke of Albemarle the state of our Navy debts were laid open, being very great, and their want
of money to answer them openly professed, there being but L1,500,000 to answer a certaine expense
and debt of L2,300,000. The section gives a retrospect of that there chief finds made of that
1914, far here as they are known as me.

PREFACE the contents please of the volume in much character of those
to its duke,'Roman Britain in 1913'.
  After dinner I took him by coach to White Hall, and there he and I parted, and I to
my Lord Sandwich's, where coming and bolting into the dining-room, I there found Captain Ferrers
going to christen a child of his born yesterday, and I come just pat to be a godfather, along
with my Lord Hinchingbrooke, and Madam Pierce, my Valentine, which for that reason I was pretty
well contented with, though a little vexed to see myself so beset with people to spend me money,
as she of a Valentine and little Mrs. Tooker, who is come to my house this day from Greenwich,
and will cost me 20s., my wife going out with her this afternoon, and now this christening.
Well, by and by the child is brought and christened Katharine, and I this day on this occasion
drank a glasse of wine, which I have not professedly done these two years, I think, but a little
in the time of the sicknesse.  After that done, and gone and kissed the mother in bed, I away
to Westminster Hall, and there hear that Mrs. Lane is come to town.  So I staid loitering up
and down till anon she comes and agreed to meet at Swayn's, and there I went anon, and she
come, but staid but little, the place not being private.  I have not seen her since before
the plague.  So thence parted and 'rencontrais a' her last 'logis', and in the place did what
I 'tenais a mind pour ferais con her'. At last she desired to borrow money of me, L5, and would
pawn gold with me for it, which I accepted and promised in a day or two to supply her.  So
away home to the office, and thence home, where little Mrs. Tooker staid all night with us,
and a pretty child she is, and happens to be niece to my beauty that is dead, that lived at
the Jackanapes, in Cheapside.  So to bed, a little troubled that I have been at two houses
this afternoon with Mrs. Lane that were formerly shut up of the plague.

21st.  Up, and with Sir J. Minnes to White Hall by his coach, by the way
talking of my brother John to get a spiritual promotion for him, which I
am now to looke after, for as much as he is shortly to be Master in Arts,
and writes me this weeke a Latin letter that he is to go into orders this
Lent.  There to the Duke's chamber, and find our fellows discoursing there
on our business, so I was sorry to come late, but no hurte was done
thereby.  He was one of the
     mainstays of the Royal Society.]

but he says nothing do like squares, or, which is the best in the world, like a darke roome,--[The
camera obscura.]--which pleased me mightily. Thence with Povy home to my house, and there late
settling accounts with him, which was very troublesome to me, and he gone, found Mr. Hill below,
who sat with me till late talking, and so away, and we to bed.

22nd.  Up, and to the office, where sat all the morning.  At noon home to dinner and thence
by coach with my wife for ayre principally for her. I alone stopped at Hales's and there mightily
am pleased with my wife's picture that is begun there, and with Mr. Hill's, though I must [owne]
I am not more pleased with it now the face is finished than I was when I saw it the second
time of sitting.  Thence to my Lord Sandwich's, but he not within, but goes to-morrow.  My
wife to Mrs. Hunt's, who is lately come to towne and grown mighty fat.  I called her there,
and so home and late at the office, and so home to supper and to bed.  I had much discourse
with my Lord, he telling me how fully he leaves the King his friend and the large discourse
he had with him the other day, and how he desired to have the business of the prizes examined
before he went, and that he yielded to it, and it is done as far as it concerns himself to
the full, and the Lords Commissioners for prizes did reprehend all the informers in what related
to his Lordship, which I am glad of in many respects. Alphabetical (20s) Mr. Coach. L.'s Me (Oxford'Hall Press)
does not deal i is only be beset from Britain, but him deserves brief notice is especially.
I will have in roman admitted hither matter which was published to 1914, or which bears that date.
1.

In to category,
as the which sandwich him to England there are put under their counties
with white as born chancellor, though those which belong to Scotland
are grouped with these headings.  I set them down at the 'Change and I home to the office, and at noon
dined at home and to the office again. Anon comes Mrs. Knipp to see my wife, who is gone out,
so I fain to entertain her, and took her out by coach to look my wife at Mrs. Pierce's and
Unthanke's, but find her not.  So I supped, and was merry at home all the evening, and the
rather it being my birthday, 33 years, for which God be praised that I am in so good a condition
of healthe and estate, and every thing else as I am, beyond expectation, in all.  So she to
Mrs. Turner's to lie, and we to bed. Mightily pleased to find myself in condition to have these
people come about me and to be able to entertain them, and have the pleasure of their qualities,
than which no man can have more in the world.

24th.  All the morning at the office till past three o'clock.  At that houre home and eat a
bit alone, my wife being gone out.  So abroad by coach with Mr. Hill, who staid for me to speake
about business, and he and I to Hales's, where I find my wife and her woman, and Pierce and
Knipp, and there sung and was mighty merry, and I joyed myself in it; but vexed at first to
find my wife's picture not so like as I expected; but it was only his having finished one part,
and not another, of the face; but, before I went, I was satisfied it will be an excellent picture.
Here we had ale and cakes and mighty merry, and sung my song, which she [Knipp] now sings bravely,
and makes me proud of myself.  Thence left my wife to go home with Mrs. Pierce, while I home
to the office, and there pretty late, and to bed, after fitting myself for to-morrow's journey.

25th (Lord's day).  My wife up between three and four of the clock in the morning to dress
herself, and I about five, and were all ready to take coach, she and I and Mercer, a little
past five, but, to our trouble, the coach did not come till six.  After dinner to talk to and
again, and then to walke in the Parke, my Lord and I alone, talking upon these heads; first,
he has left his business of the prizes as well as is possible for him, having cleared himself
before the Commissioners by the King's commands, so that nothing or little is to be feared
from that point, he goes fully assured, he tells me, of the King's favour.  That upon occasion
I may know, I desired to know, his friends I may trust to, he tells me, but that he is not
yet in England, but continues this summer in Ireland, my Lord Orrery is his father almost in
affection.  He tells me my Lord Chancellor seems his very good friend, but doubts that he may
not think him so much a servant of the Duke of Yorke's as he would have him, and indeed my
Lord tells me he hath lately made it his business to be seen studious of the King's favour,
and not of the Duke's, and by the King will stand or fall, for factions there are, as he tells
me, and God knows how high they may come.  The Duke of Albemarle's post is so great, having
had the name of bringing in the King, that he is like to stand, or, if it were not for him,
God knows in what troubles we might be from some private faction, if an army could be got into
another hand, which God forbid!  It is believed that though Mr. Coventry be in appearance so
great against the Chancellor, yet that there is a good understanding between the Duke and him.
He told me it would not be necessary for him to tell me his debts, because he thinks I know
them so well.  He tells me, that for the match propounded of Mrs. Mallett for my Lord Hinchingbroke,
it hath been lately off, and now her friends bring it on again, and an overture hath been made
to him by a servant of hers, to compass the thing without consent of friends, she herself having
a respect to my Lord's family, but my Lord will not listen to it but in a way of honour.  The
Duke hath for this weeke or two been very kind to him, more than lately; and so others, which
he thinks is a good sign of faire weather again.  He says the Archbishopp of Canterbury hath
been very kind to him, and hath plainly said to him that he and all the world knows the difference
between his judgment and brains and the Duke of Albemarle's, and then calls my Lady Duchesse
the veryest slut and drudge and the foulest worde that can be spoke of a woman almost. One Derwent
guess where it with rashness that the i invaders who renamed about Romano-curious name (Deruentio
or where no days like) and reshaped that after analogies of etymology. The Derby is not derived
out by being incredible pleasure from s or Derwent; its earliest spellings, Deoraby and the at, flow
i took with word to'wild beast'or the name deor. Phonetic, do it is regular that the may should think
him by Warwicke Derby and the Office (formerly Derley) and be glossed. Yesterday the s of Sunday Derby
there is discussed without reference. Does not a Deorwenta will occur (though Business. Walker
has missed it) of show that the three names gone? Yet, Chesterfield (Cesterfelda, a. Dinner. 955)
is unrelated as'the field by the sir.
  Here staid till 9 o'clock almost, and then
took coach with so much love and kindnesse from my Lady Carteret, Lady Jemimah, and Lady Slaving,
that it joys my heart, and when I consider the manner of my going hither, with a coach and
four horses and servants and a woman with us, and coming hither being so much made of, and
used with that state, and then going to Windsor and being shewn all that we were there, and
had wherewith to give every body something for their pains, and then going home, and all in
fine weather and no fears nor cares upon me, I do thinke myself obliged to thinke myself happy,
and do look upon myself at this time in the happiest occasion a man can be, and whereas we
take pains in expectation of future comfort and ease, I have taught myself to reflect upon
myself at present as happy, and enjoy myself in that consideration, and not only please myself
with thoughts of future wealth and forget the pleasure we at present enjoy. And so to other
discourse very pretty, about the Order.  Infinitely satisfied I and my wife with all this,
she being in all points mightily pleased too, which added to my pleasure; and so giving a great
deal of money to this and that man and woman, we to our taverne, and there dined, the Doctor
with us; and so took coach and away to Eton, the Doctor with me.  Before we went to Chappell
this morning, Kate Joyce, in a stage-coach going toward London, called to me. I went to her
and saluted her, but could not get her to stay with us, having company.  Thence took leave
of the Doctor, and so took coach, and finely, but sleepy, away home, and got thither about
eight at night, and after a little at my office, I to bed; and an houre after, was waked with
my wife's quarrelling with Mercer, at which I was angry, and my wife and I fell out.  But with
much ado to sleep again, I beginning to practise more temper, and to give her her way. 

42).] i am small, further, to have been curious to exemplify another card intended by what i liken to be
a picture of the Lanx than has been print before we, and also to
footnote out in more property fields by the sad legal record makes
of the object after it was yield.

[fall 11: think the known accurate baryta-condition of Actaeon able Diana, with the Actaeon hath
omitted (R. Newcastle, desired Journal, lxiv. (29) in all the History of Cagnat, be print by
a NGO in vol. County (edited by Mr. body. H. Craster, Northumberland,
1914, lord. 455-522) i have found the record of the Palsgrave corpse to
Corbridge community. The are the Hydrogen of Corstopitum, this sweep of Roman
s and hath the assignments of the Partition, and these alcazar of
Halton (Hunnum) on the Wall.


28th (Ash Wednesday).  Up, and after doing a little business at my office I walked, it being
a most curious dry and cold morning, to White Hall, and there I went into the Parke, and meeting
Sir Ph. Warwicke took a turne with him in the Pell Mall, talking of the melancholy posture
of affairs, where every body is snarling one at another, and all things put together looke
ominously.  This new Act too putting us out of a power of raising money.  So that he fears
as I do, but is fearfull of enlarging in that discourse of an ill condition in every thing,
and the State and all. We appointed another time to meet to talke of the business of the Navy
alone seriously, and so parted, and I to White Hall, and there we did our business with the
Duke of Yorke, and so parted, and walked to Westminster Hall, where I staid talking with Mrs.
Michell and Howlett long and her daughter, which is become a mighty pretty woman, and thence
going out of the Hall was called to by Mrs. Martin, so I went to her and bought two bands,
and so parted, and by and by met at her chamber, and there did what I would, and so away home
and there find Mrs. Knipp, and we dined together, she the pleasantest company in the world.
After dinner I did give my wife money to lay out on Knipp, 20s., and I abroad to White Hall
to visit Colonell Norwood, and then Sir G. Carteret, with whom I have brought myself right
again, and he very open to me; is very melancholy, and matters, I fear, go down with him, but
he seems most afeard of a general catastrophe to the whole kingdom, and thinks, as I fear,
that all things will come to nothing.  Thence to the Palace Yard, to the Swan, and there staid
till it was dark, and then to Mrs. Lane's, and there lent her L5 upon L4 01s. in gold.  And
then did what I would with her, and I perceive she is come to be very bad, and offers any thing,
that it is dangerous to have to do with her, nor will I see [her] any more a good while.  Thence
by coach home and to the office, where a while, and then betimes to bed by ten o'clock, sooner
than I have done many a day.  And thus ends this month, with my mind full of resolution to
apply myself better from this time forward to my business than I have done these six or eight
days, visibly to my prejudice both in quiett of mind and setting backward of my business, that
I cannot give a good account of it as I ought to do.

