FATHER SERGIUS

By Leo Tolstoy

I

In Petersburg in the eighteen-forties a surprising event occurred. An officer of the Cuirassier
Life Guards, a handsome prince who everyone predicted would become aide-de-camp to the Emperor
Nicholas I and have a brilliant career, left the service, broke off his engagement to a beautiful
maid of honour, a favourite of the Empress's, gave his small estate to his sister, and retired
to a monastery to become a monk.

This event appeared extraordinary and inexplicable to those who did not know his inner motives,
but for Prince Stepan Kasatsky himself it all occurred so naturally that he could not imagine
how he could have acted otherwise.

His father, a retired colonel of the Guards, had died when Stepan was twelve, and sorry as
his mother was to part from her son, she entered him at the Military College as her deceased
husband had intended.

The widow herself, with her daughter, Varvara, moved to Petersburg to be near her son and have
him with her for the holidays.

The boy was distinguished both by his brilliant ability and by his immense self-esteem. He
was first both in his studies--especially in mathematics, of which he was particularly fond--and
also in drill and in riding. Though of more than average height, he was handsome and agile,
and he would have been an altogether exemplary cadet had it not been for his quick temper.
He was remarkably truthful, and was neither dissipated nor addicted to drink. The only faults
that marred his conduct were fits of fury to which he was subject and during which he lost
control of himself and became like a wild animal. He once nearly threw out of the window another
cadet who had begun to tease him about his collection of minerals. On another occasion he came
almost completely to grief by flinging a whole dish of cutlets at an officer who was acting
as steward, attacking him and, it was said, striking him for having broken his word and told
a barefaced lie. He would certainly have been reduced to the ranks had not the Director of
the College hushed up the whole matter and dismissed the steward.

By the time he was eighteen he had finished his College course and received a commission as
lieutenant in an aristocratic regiment of the Guards.

The Emperor Nicholas Pavlovich (Nicholas I) had noticed him while he was still at the College,
and continued to take notice of him in the regiment, and it was on this account that people
predicted for him an appointment as aide-de-camp to the Emperor. Kasatsky himself strongly
desired it, not from ambition only but chiefly because since his cadet days he had been passionately
devoted to Nicholas Pavlovich. The Emperor had often visited the Military College and every
time Kasatsky saw that tall erect figure, with breast expanded in its military overcoat, entering
with brisk step, saw the cropped side-whiskers, the moustache, the aquiline nose, and heard
the sonorous voice exchanging greetings with the cadets, he was seized by the same rapture
that he experienced later on when he met the woman he loved. Indeed, his passionate adoration
of the Emperor was even stronger: he wished to sacrifice something--everything, even himself--to
prove his complete devotion. And the Emperor Nicholas was conscious of evoking this rapture
and deliberately aroused it. He played with the cadets, surrounded himself with them, treating
them sometimes with childish simplicity, sometimes as a friend, and then again with majestic
solemnity. After that affair with the officer, Nicholas Pavlovich said nothing to Kasatsky,
but when the latter approached he waved him away theatrically, frowned, shook his finger at
him, and afterwards when leaving, said: 'Remember that I know everything. There are some things
I would rather not know, but they remain here,' and he pointed to his heart.

When on leaving College the cadets were received by the Emperor, he did not again refer to
Kasatsky's offence, but told them all, as was his custom, that they should serve him and the
fatherland loyally, that he would always be their best friend, and that when necessary they
might approach him direct. All the cadets were as usual greatly moved, and Kasatsky even shed
tears, remembering the past, and vowed that he would serve his beloved Tsar with all his soul.

When Kasatsky took up his commission his mother moved with her daughter first to Moscow and
then to their country estate. Kasatsky gave half his property to his sister and kept only enough
to maintain himself in the expensive regiment he had joined.

To all appearance he was just an ordinary, brilliant young officer of the Guards making a career
for himself; but intense and complex strivings went on within him. From early childhood his
efforts had seemed to be very varied, but essentially they were all one and the same. He tried
in everything he took up to attain such success and perfection as would evoke praise and surprise.
Whether it was his studies or his military exercises, he took them up and worked at them till
he was praised and held up as an example to others. Mastering one subject he took up another,
and obtained first place in his studies. For example, while still at College he noticed in
himself an awkwardness in French conversation, and contrived to master French till he spoke
it as well as Russian, and then he took up chess and became an excellent player.

Apart from his main vocation, which was the service of his Tsar and the fatherland, he always
set himself some particular aim, and however unimportant it was, devoted himself completely
to it and lived for it until it was accomplished. And as soon as it was attained another aim
would immediately present itself, replacing its predecessor. This passion for distinguishing
himself, or for accomplishing something in order to distinguish himself, filled his life. On
taking up his commission he set himself to acquire the utmost perfection in knowledge of the
service, and very soon became a model officer, though still with the same fault of ungovernable
irascibility, which here in the service again led him to commit actions inimical to his success.
Then he took to reading, having once in conversation in society felt himself deficient in general
education--and again achieved his purpose. Then, wishing to secure a brilliant position in
high society, he learnt to dance excellently and very soon was invited to all the balls in
the best circles, and to some of their evening gatherings. But this did not satisfy him: he
was accustomed to being first, and in this society was far from being so.

The highest society then consisted, and I think always consist, of four sorts of people: rich
people who are received at Court, people not wealthy but born and brought up in Court circles,
rich people who ingratiate themselves into the Court set, and people neither rich nor belonging
to the Court but who ingratiate themselves into the first and second sets.

Kasatsky did not belong to the first two sets, but was readily welcomed in the others. On entering
society he determined to have relations with some society lady, and to his own surprise quickly
accomplished this purpose. He soon realized, however, that the circles in which he moved were
not the highest, and that though he was received in the highest spheres he did not belong to
them. They were polite to him, but showed by their whole manner that they had their own set
and that he was not of it. And Kasatsky wished to belong to that inner circle. To attain that
end it would be necessary to be an aide-de-camp to the Emperor--which he expected to become--or
to marry into that exclusive set, which he resolved to do. And his choice fell on a beauty
belonging to the Court, who not merely belonged to the circle into which he wished to be accepted,
but whose friendship was coveted by the very highest people and those most firmly established
in that highest circle. This was Countess Korotkova. Kasatsky began to pay court to her, and
not merely for the sake of his career. She was extremely attractive and he soon fell in love
with her. At first she was noticeably cool towards him, but then suddenly changed and became
gracious, and her mother gave him pressing invitations to visit them. Kasatsky proposed and
was accepted. He was surprised at the facility with which he attained such happiness. But though
he noticed something strange and unusual in the behaviour towards him of both mother and daughter,
he was blinded by being so deeply in love, and did not realize what almost the whole town knew--namely,
that his fiancee had been the Emperor Nicholas's mistress the previous year.

Two weeks before the day arranged for the wedding, Kasatsky was at Tsarskoe Selo at his fiancee's
country place. It was a hot day in May. He and his betrothed had walked about the garden and
were sitting on a bench in a shady linden alley. Mary's white muslin dress suited her particularly
well, and she seemed the personification of innocence and love as she sat, now bending her
head, now gazing up at the very tall and handsome man who was speaking to her with particular
tenderness and self-restraint, as if he feared by word or gesture to offend or sully her angelic
purity.

Kasatsky belonged to those men of the eighteen-forties (they are now no longer to be found)
who while deliberately and without any conscientious scruples condoning impurity in themselves,
required ideal and angelic purity in their women, regarded all unmarried women of their circle
as possessed of such purity, and treated them accordingly. There was much that was false and
harmful in this outlook, as concerning the laxity the men permitted themselves, but in regard
to the women that old-fashioned view (sharply differing from that held by young people to-day
who see in every girl merely a female seeking a mate) was, I think, of value. The girls, perceiving
such adoration, endeavoured with more or less success to be goddesses.

Such was the view Kasatsky held of women, and that was how he regarded his fiancee. He was
particularly in love that day, but did not experience any sensual desire for her. On the contrary
he regarded her with tender adoration as something unattainable.

He rose to his full height, standing before her with both hands on his sabre.

'I have only now realized what happiness a man can experience! And it is you, my darling, who
have given me this happiness,' he said with a timid smile.

Endearments had not yet become usual between them, and feeling himself morally inferior he
felt terrified at this stage to use them to such an angel.

'It is thanks to you that I have come to know myself. I have learnt that I am better than I
thought.'

'I have known that for a long time. That was why I began to love you.'

Nightingales trilled near by and the fresh leafage rustled, moved by a passing breeze.

He took her hand and kissed it, and tears came into his eyes.

She understood that he was thanking her for having said she loved him. He silently took a few
steps up and down, and then approached her again and sat down.

'You know... I have to tell you... I was not disinterested when I began to make love to you.
I wanted to get into society; but later... how unimportant that became in comparison with you--when
I got to know you. You are not angry with me for that?'

She did not reply but merely touched his hand. He understood that this meant: 'No, I am not angry.'

'You said...' He hesitated. It seemed too bold to say. 'You said that you began to love me.
I believe it--but there is something that troubles you and checks your feeling. What is it?'

'Yes--now or never!' thought she. 'He is bound to know of it anyway. But now he will not forsake
me. Ah, if he should, it would be terrible!' And she threw a loving glance at his tall, noble,
powerful figure. She loved him now more than she had loved the Tsar, and apart from the Imperial
dignity would not have preferred the Emperor to him.

'Listen! I cannot deceive you. I have to tell you. You ask what it is? It is that I have loved
before.'

She again laid her hand on his with an imploring gesture. He was silent.

'You want to know who it was? It was--the Emperor.'

'We all love him. I can imagine you, a schoolgirl at the Institute...'

'No, it was later. I was infatuated, but it passed... I must tell you...'

'Well, what of it?'

'No, it was not simply--' She covered her face with her hands.

'What? You gave yourself to him?'

She was silent.

'His mistress?'

She did not answer.

He sprang up and stood before her with trembling jaws, pale as death. He now remembered how
the Emperor, meeting him on the Nevsky, had amiably congratulated him.

'O God, what have I done! Stiva!'

'Don't touch me! Don't touch me! Oh, how it pains!'

He turned away and went to the house. There he met her mother.

'What is the matter, Prince? I...' She became silent on seeing his face. The blood had suddenly
rushed to his head.

'You knew it, and used me to shield them! If you weren't a woman...!' he cried, lifting his
enormous fist, and turning aside he ran away.

Had his fiancee's lover been a private person he would have killed him, but it was his beloved
Tsar.

Next day he applied both for furlough and his discharge, and professing to be ill, so as to
see no one, he went away to the country.

He spent the summer at his village arranging his affairs. When summer was over he did not return
to Petersburg, but entered a monastery and there became a monk.

His mother wrote to try to dissuade him from this decisive step, but he replied that he felt
God's call which transcended all other considerations. Only his sister, who was as proud and
ambitious as he, understood him.

She understood that he had become a monk in order to be above those who considered themselves
his superiors. And she understood him correctly. By becoming a monk he showed contempt for
all that seemed most important to others and had seemed so to him while he was in the service,
and he now ascended a height from which he could look down on those he had formerly envied....
But it was not this alone, as his sister Varvara supposed, that influenced him. There was also
in him something else--a sincere religious feeling which Varvara did not know, which intertwined
itself with the feeling of pride and the desire for pre-eminence, and guided him. His disillusionment
with Mary, whom he had thought of angelic purity, and his sense of injury, were so strong that
they brought him to despair, and the despair led him--to what? To God, to his childhood's faith
which had never been destroyed in him.

II

Kasatsky entered the monastery on the feast of the Intercession of the Blessed Virgin. The
Abbot of that monastery was a gentleman by birth, a learned writer and a starets, that is,
he belonged to that succession of monks originating in Walachia who each choose a director
and teacher whom they implicitly obey. This Superior had been a disciple of the starets Ambrose,
who was a disciple of Makarius, who was a disciple of the starets Leonid, who was a disciple
of Paussy Velichkovsky.

To this Abbot Kasatsky submitted himself as to his chosen director. Here in the monastery,
besides the feeling of ascendency over others that such a life gave him, he felt much as he
had done in the world: he found satisfaction in attaining the greatest possible perfection
outwardly as well as inwardly. As in the regiment he had been not merely an irreproachable
officer but had even exceeded his duties and widened the borders of perfection, so also as
a monk he tried to be perfect, and was always industrious, abstemious, submissive, and meek,
as well as pure both in deed and in thought, and obedient. This last quality in particular
made life far easier for him. If many of the demands of life in the monastery, which was near
the capital and much frequented, did not please him and were temptations to him, they were
all nullified by obedience: 'It is not for me to reason; my business is to do the task set
me, whether it be standing beside the relics, singing in the choir, or making up accounts in
the monastery guest-house.' All possibility of doubt about anything was silenced by obedience
to the starets. Had it not been for this, he would have been oppressed by the length and monotony
of the church services, the bustle of the many visitors, and the bad qualities of the other
monks. As it was, he not only bore it all joyfully but found in it solace and support. 'I don't
know why it is necessary to hear the same prayers several times a day, but I know that it is
necessary; and knowing this I find joy in them.' His director told him that as material food
is necessary for the maintenance of the life of the body, so spiritual food--the church prayers--is
necessary for the maintenance of the spiritual life. He believed this, and though the church
services, for which he had to get up early in the morning, were a difficulty, they certainly
calmed him and gave him joy. This was the result of his consciousness of humility, and the
certainty that whatever he had to do, being fixed by the starets, was right.

The interest of his life consisted not only in an ever greater and greater subjugation of his
will, but in the attainment of all the Christian virtues, which at first seemed to him easily
attainable. He had given his whole estate to his sister and did not regret it, he had no personal
claims, humility towards his inferiors was not merely easy for him but afforded him pleasure.
Even victory over the sins of the flesh, greed and lust, was easily attained. His director
had specially warned him against the latter sin, but Kasatsky felt free from it and was glad.

One thing only tormented him--the remembrance of his fiancee; and not merely the remembrance
but the vivid image of what might have been. Involuntarily he recalled a lady he knew who had
been a favourite of the Emperor's, but had afterwards married and become an admirable wife
and mother. The husband had a high position, influence and honour, and a good and penitent wife.

In his better hours Kasatsky was not disturbed by such thoughts, and when he recalled them
at such times he was merely glad to feel that the temptation was past. But there were moments
when all that made up his present life suddenly grew dim before him, moments when, if he did
not cease to believe in the aims he had set himself, he ceased to see them and could evoke
no confidence in them but was seized by a remembrance of, and--terrible to say--a regret for,
the change of life he had made.

The only thing that saved him in that state of mind was obedience and work, and the fact that
the whole day was occupied by prayer. He went through the usual forms of prayer, he bowed in
prayer, he even prayed more than usual, but it was lip-service only and his soul was not in
it. This condition would continue for a day, or sometimes for two days, and would then pass
of itself. But those days were dreadful. Kasatsky felt that he was neither in his own hands
nor in God's, but was subject to something else. All he could do then was to obey the starets,
to restrain himself, to undertake nothing, and simply to wait. In general all this time he
lived not by his own will but by that of the starets, and in this obedience he found a special
tranquillity.

So he lived in his first monastery for seven years. At the end of the third year he received
the tonsure and was ordained to the priesthood by the name of Sergius. The profession was an
important event in his inner life. He had previously experienced a great consolation and spiritual
exaltation when receiving communion, and now when he himself officiated, the performance of
the preparation filled him with ecstatic and deep emotion. But subsequently that feeling became
more and more deadened, and once when he was officiating in a depressed state of mind he felt
that the influence produced on him by the service would not endure. And it did in fact weaken
till only the habit remained.

In general in the seventh year of his life in the monastery Sergius grew weary. He had learnt
all there was to learn and had attained all there was to attain, there was nothing more to
do and his spiritual drowsiness increased. During this time he heard of his mother's death
and his sister Varvara's marriage, but both events were matters of indifference to him. His
whole attention and his whole interest were concentrated on his inner life.

In the fourth year of his priesthood, during which the Bishop had been particularly kind to
him, the starets told him that he ought not to decline it if he were offered an appointment
to higher duties. Then monastic ambition, the very thing he had found so repulsive in other
monks, arose within him. He was assigned to a monastery near the metropolis. He wished to refuse
but the starets ordered him to accept the appointment. He did so, and took leave of the starets
and moved to the other monastery.

The exchange into the metropolitan monastery was an important event in Sergius's life. There
he encountered many temptations, and his whole will-power was concentrated on meeting them.

In the first monastery, women had not been a temptation to him, but here that temptation arose
with terrible strength and even took definite shape. There was a lady known for her frivolous
behaviour who began to seek his favour. She talked to him and asked him to visit her. Sergius
sternly declined, but was horrified by the definiteness of his desire. He was so alarmed that
he wrote about it to the starets. And in addition, to keep himself in hand, he spoke to a young
novice and, conquering his sense of shame, confessed his weakness to him, asking him to keep
watch on him and not let him go anywhere except to service and to fulfil his duties.

Besides this, a great pitfall for Sergius lay in the fact of his extreme antipathy to his new
Abbot, a cunning worldly man who was making a career for himself in the Church. Struggle with
himself as he might, he could not master that feeling. He was submissive to the Abbot, but
in the depths of his soul he never ceased to condemn him. And in the second year of his residence
at the new monastery that ill-feeling broke out.

The Vigil service was being performed in the large church on the eve of the feast of the Intercession
of the Blessed Virgin, and there were many visitors. The Abbot himself was conducting the service.
Father Sergius was standing in his usual place and praying: that is, he was in that condition
of struggle which always occupied him during the service, especially in the large church when
he was not himself conducting the service. This conflict was occasioned by his irritation at
the presence of fine folk, especially ladies. He tried not to see them or to notice all that
went on: how a soldier conducted them, pushing the common people aside, how the ladies pointed
out the monks to one another--especially himself and a monk noted for his good looks. He tried
as it were to keep his mind in blinkers, to see nothing but the light of the candles on the
altar-screen, the icons, and those conducting the service. He tried to hear nothing but the
prayers that were being chanted or read, to feel nothing but self-oblivion in consciousness
of the fulfilment of duty--a feeling he always experienced when hearing or reciting in advance
the prayers he had so often heard.

So he stood, crossing and prostrating himself when necessary, and struggled with himself, now
giving way to cold condemnation and now to a consciously evoked obliteration of thought and
feeling. Then the sacristan, Father Nicodemus--also a great stumbling-block to Sergius who
involuntarily reproached him for flattering and fawning on the Abbot--approached him and, bowing
low, requested his presence behind the holy gates. Father Sergius straightened his mantle,
put on his biretta, and went circumspectly through the crowd.

'Lise, regarde a droite, c'est lui!' he heard a woman's voice say.

'Ou, ou? Il n'est pas tellement beau.'

He knew that they were speaking of him. He heard them and, as always at moments of temptation,
he repeated the words, 'Lead us not into temptation,' and bowing his head and lowering his
eyes went past the ambo and in by the north door, avoiding the canons in their cassocks who
were just then passing the altar-screen. On entering the sanctuary he bowed, crossing himself
as usual and bending double before the icons. Then, raising his head but without turning, he
glanced out of the corner of his eye at the Abbot, whom he saw standing beside another glittering
figure.

The Abbot was standing by the wall in his vestments. Having freed his short plump hands from
beneath his chasuble he had folded them over his fat body and protruding stomach, and fingering
the cords of his vestments was smilingly saying something to a military man in the uniform
of a general of the Imperial suite, with its insignia and shoulder-knots which Father Sergius's
experienced eye at once recognized. This general had been the commander of the regiment in
which Sergius had served. He now evidently occupied an important position, and Father Sergius
at once noticed that the Abbot was aware of this and that his red face and bald head beamed
with satisfaction and pleasure. This vexed and disgusted Father Sergius, the more so when he
heard that the Abbot had only sent for him to satisfy the general's curiosity to see a man
who had formerly served with him, as he expressed it.

'Very pleased to see you in your angelic guise,' said the general, holding out his hand. 'I
hope you have not forgotten an old comrade.'

The whole thing--the Abbot's red, smiling face amid its fringe of grey, the general's words,
his well-cared-for face with its self-satisfied smile and the smell of wine from his breath
and of cigars from his whiskers--revolted Father Sergius. He bowed again to the Abbot and said:

'Your reverence deigned to send for me?'--and stopped, the whole expression of his face and
eyes asking why.

'Yes, to meet the General,' replied the Abbot.

'Your reverence, I left the world to save myself from temptation,' said Father Sergius, turning
pale and with quivering lips. 'Why do you expose me to it during prayers and in God's house?'

'You may go! Go!' said the Abbot, flaring up and frowning.

Next day Father Sergius asked pardon of the Abbot and of the brethren for his pride, but at
the same time, after a night spent in prayer, he decided that he must leave this monastery,
and he wrote to the starets begging permission to return to him. He wrote that he felt his
weakness and incapacity to struggle against temptation without his help and penitently confessed
his sin of pride. By return of post came a letter from the starets, who wrote that Sergius's
pride was the cause of all that had happened. The old man pointed out that his fits of anger
were due to the fact that in refusing all clerical honours he humiliated himself not for the
sake of God but for the sake of his pride. 'There now, am I not a splendid man not to want
anything?' That was why he could not tolerate the Abbot's action. 'I have renounced everything
for the glory of God, and here I am exhibited like a wild beast!' 'Had you renounced vanity
for God's sake you would have borne it. Worldly pride is not yet dead in you. I have thought
about you, Sergius my son, and prayed also, and this is what God has suggested to me. At the
Tambov hermitage the anchorite Hilary, a man of saintly life, has died. He had lived there
eighteen years. The Tambov Abbot is asking whether there is not a brother who would take his
place. And here comes your letter. Go to Father Paissy of the Tambov Monastery. I will write
to him about you, and you must ask for Hilary's cell. Not that you can replace Hilary, but
you need solitude to quell your pride. May God bless you!'

Sergius obeyed the starets, showed his letter to the Abbot, and having obtained his permission,
gave up his cell, handed all his possessions over to the monastery, and set out for the Tambov
hermitage.

There the Abbot, an excellent manager of merchant origin, received Sergius simply and quietly
and placed him in Hilary's cell, at first assigning to him a lay brother but afterwards leaving
him alone, at Sergius's own request. The cell was a dual cave, dug into the hillside, and in
it Hilary had been buried. In the back part was Hilary's grave, while in the front was a niche
for sleeping, with a straw mattress, a small table, and a shelf with icons and books. Outside
the outer door, which fastened with a hook, was another shelf on which, once a day, a monk
placed food from the monastery.

And so Sergius became a hermit.

III

At Carnival time, in the sixth year of Sergius's life at the hermitage, a merry company of
rich people, men and women from a neighbouring town, made up a troyka-party, after a meal of
carnival-pancakes and wine. The company consisted of two lawyers, a wealthy landowner, an officer,
and four ladies. One lady was the officer's wife, another the wife of the landowner, the third
his sister--a young girl--and the fourth a divorcee, beautiful, rich, and eccentric, who amazed
and shocked the town by her escapades.

The weather was excellent and the snow-covered road smooth as a floor. They drove some seven
miles out of town, and then stopped and consulted as to whether they should turn back or drive
farther.

'But where does this road lead to?' asked Makovkina, the beautiful divorcee.

'To Tambov, eight miles from here,' replied one of the lawyers, who was having a flirtation
with her.

'And then where?'

'Then on to L----, past the Monastery.'

'Where that Father Sergius lives?'

'Yes.'

'Kasatsky, the handsome hermit?'

'Yes.'

'Mesdames et messieurs, let us drive on and see Kasatsky! We can stop at Tambov and have something
to eat.'

'But we shouldn't get home to-night!'

'Never mind, we will stay at Kasatsky's.'

'Well, there is a very good hostelry at the Monastery. I stayed there when I was defending Makhin.'

'No, I shall spend the night at Kasatsky's!'

'Impossible! Even your omnipotence could not accomplish that!'

'Impossible? Will you bet?'

'All right! If you spend the night with him, the stake shall be whatever you like.'

'A DISCRETION!'

'But on your side too!'

'Yes, of course. Let us drive on.'

Vodka was handed to the drivers, and the party got out a box of pies, wine, and sweets for
themselves. The ladies wrapped up in their white dogskins. The drivers disputed as to whose
troyka should go ahead, and the youngest, seating himself sideways with a dashing air, swung
his long knout and shouted to the horses. The troyka-bells tinkled and the sledge-runners squeaked
over the snow.

The sledge swayed hardly at all. The shaft-horse, with his tightly bound tail under his decorated
breechband, galloped smoothly and briskly; the smooth road seemed to run rapidly backwards,
while the driver dashingly shook the reins. One of the lawyers and the officer sitting opposite
talked nonsense to Makovkina's neighbour, but Makovkina herself sat motionless and in thought,
tightly wrapped in her fur. 'Always the same and always nasty! The same red shiny faces smelling
of wine and cigars! The same talk, the same thoughts, and always about the same things! And
they are all satisfied and confident that it should be so, and will go on living like that
till they die. But I can't. It bores me. I want something that would upset it all and turn
it upside down. Suppose it happened to us as to those people--at Saratov was it?--who kept
on driving and froze to death.... What would our people do? How would they behave? Basely,
for certain. Each for himself. And I too should act badly. But I at any rate have beauty. They
all know it. And how about that monk? Is it possible that he has become indifferent to it?
No! That is the one thing they all care for--like that cadet last autumn. What a fool he was!'

'Ivan Nikolaevich!' she said aloud.

'What are your commands?'

'How old is he?'

'Who?'

'Kasatsky.'

'Over forty, I should think.'

'And does he receive all visitors?'

'Yes, everybody, but not always.'

'Cover up my feet. Not like that--how clumsy you are! No! More, more--like that! But you need
not squeeze them!'

So they came to the forest where the cell was.

Makovkina got out of the sledge, and told them to drive on. They tried to dissuade her, but
she grew irritable and ordered them to go on.

When the sledges had gone she went up the path in her white dogskin coat. The lawyer got out
and stopped to watch her.

It was Father Sergius's sixth year as a recluse, and he was now forty-nine. His life in solitude
was hard--not on account of the fasts and the prayers (they were no hardship to him) but on
account of an inner conflict he had not at all anticipated. The sources of that conflict were
two: doubts, and the lust of the flesh. And these two enemies always appeared together. It
seemed to him that they were two foes, but in reality they were one and the same. As soon as
doubt was gone so was the lustful desire. But thinking them to be two different fiends he fought
them separately.

'O my God, my God!' thought he. 'Why dost thou not grant me faith? There is lust, of course:
even the saints had to fight that--Saint Anthony and others. But they had faith, while I have
moments, hours, and days, when it is absent. Why does the whole world, with all its delights,
exist if it is sinful and must be renounced? Why hast Thou created this temptation? Temptation?
Is it not rather a temptation that I wish to abandon all the joys of earth and prepare something
for myself there where perhaps there is nothing?' And he became horrified and filled with disgust
at himself. 'Vile creature! And it is you who wish to become a saint!' he upbraided himself,
and he began to pray. But as soon as he started to pray he saw himself vividly as he had been
at the Monastery, in a majestic post in biretta and mantle, and he shook his head. 'No, that
is not right. It is deception. I may deceive others, but not myself or God. I am not a majestic
man, but a pitiable and ridiculous one!' And he threw back the folds of his cassock and smiled
as he looked at his thin legs in their underclothing.

Then he dropped the folds of the cassock again and began reading the prayers, making the sign
of the cross and prostrating himself. 'Can it be that this couch will be my bier?' he read.
And it seemed as if a devil whispered to him: 'A solitary couch is itself a bier. Falsehood!'
And in imagination he saw the shoulders of a widow with whom he had lived. He shook himself,
and went on reading. Having read the precepts he took up the Gospels, opened the book, and
happened on a passage he often repeated and knew by heart: 'Lord, I believe. Help thou my unbelief!'--and
he put away all the doubts that had arisen. As one replaces an object of insecure equilibrium,
so he carefully replaced his belief on its shaky pedestal and carefully stepped back from it
so as not to shake or upset it. The blinkers were adjusted again and he felt tranquillized,
and repeating his childhood's prayer: 'Lord, receive me, receive me!' he felt not merely at
ease, but thrilled and joyful. He crossed himself and lay down on the bedding on his narrow
bench, tucking his summer cassock under his head. He fell asleep at once, and in his light
slumber he seemed to hear the tinkling of sledge bells. He did not know whether he was dreaming
or awake, but a knock at the door aroused him. He sat up, distrusting his senses, but the knock
was repeated. Yes, it was a knock close at hand, at his door, and with it the sound of a woman's
voice.

'My God! Can it be true, as I have read in the Lives of the Saints, that the devil takes on
the form of a woman? Yes--it is a woman's voice. And a tender, timid, pleasant voice. Phui!'
And he spat to exorcise the devil. 'No, it was only my imagination,' he assured himself, and
he went to the corner where his lectern stood, falling on his knees in the regular and habitual
manner which of itself gave him consolation and satisfaction. He sank down, his hair hanging
over his face, and pressed his head, already going bald in front, to the cold damp strip of
drugget on the draughty floor. He read the psalm old Father Pimon had told him warded off temptation.
He easily raised his light and emaciated body on his strong sinewy legs and tried to continue
saying his prayers, but instead of doing so he involuntarily strained his hearing. He wished
to hear more. All was quiet. From the corner of the roof regular drops continued to fall into
the tub below. Outside was a mist and fog eating into the snow that lay on the ground. It was
still, very still. And suddenly there was a rustling at the window and a voice--that same tender,
timid voice, which could only belong to an attractive woman--said:

'Let me in, for Christ's sake!'

It seemed as though his blood had all rushed to his heart and settled there. He could hardly
breathe. 'Let God arise and let his enemies be scattered...'

'But I am not a devil!' It was obvious that the lips that uttered this were smiling. 'I am
not a devil, but only a sinful woman who has lost her way, not figuratively but literally!'
She laughed. 'I am frozen and beg for shelter.'

He pressed his face to the window, but the little icon-lamp was reflected by it and shone on
the whole pane. He put his hands to both sides of his face and peered between them. Fog, mist,
a tree, and--just opposite him--she herself. Yes, there, a few inches from him, was the sweet,
kindly frightened face of a woman in a cap and a coat of long white fur, leaning towards him.
Their eyes met with instant recognition: not that they had ever known one another, they had
never met before, but by the look they exchanged they--and he particularly--felt that they
knew and understood one another. After that glance to imagine her to be a devil and not a simple,
kindly, sweet, timid woman, was impossible.

'Who are you? Why have you come?' he asked.

'Do please open the door!' she replied, with capricious authority. 'I am frozen. I tell you
I have lost my way.'

'But I am a monk--a hermit.'

'Oh, do please open the door--or do you wish me to freeze under your window while you say your
prayers?'

'But how have you...'

'I shan't eat you. For God's sake let me in! I am quite frozen.'

She really did feel afraid, and said this in an almost tearful voice.

