MISS LUDINGTON'S SISTER

by

EDWARD BELLAMY

CHAPTER I.

The happiness of some lives is distributed pretty evenly over the whole stretch from the cradle
to the grave, while that of others comes all at once, glorifying some particular epoch and
leaving the rest in shadow. During one, five, or ten blithe years, as the case may be, all
the springs of life send up sweet waters; joy is in the very air we breathe; happiness seems
our native element. During this period we know what is the zest of living, as compared with
the mere endurance of existence, which is, perhaps, the most we have attained to before or
since. With men this culminating epoch comes often in manhood, or even at maturity, especially
with men of arduous and successful careers. But with women it comes most frequently perhaps
in girlhood and young womanhood. Particularly is this wont to be the fact with women who do
not marry, and with whom, as the years glide on, life becomes lonelier and its interests fewer.

By the time Miss Ida Ludington was twenty-five years old she recognised that she had done with
happiness, and that the pale pleasures of memory were all which remained to her. Start
the discomfort, but a slight discomfort. What so good that poison that kills quietly! Suddenly it seems
that blurs your vision. Open your eyes and see everything black. Nor hears and birds are singing
far away, as if in the Puerta del Sol .. And then panic the rush so fast that stands up and says:
"I'll call? Ask for help? It's horrible ... And die! ... Alas, and sin !...». Hiding his face in
his hands makes determination not to call. What, what is it a comedy? Then feels fade ...
ideas you are going, you will be thinking all, you will be the heartbeat of the blood, whole
life, pain and knowledge, feel and fear, fainting, falls asleep dies ... "Virgen del Carmen - think
the last thought that escapes - take me ...!».

XXXV

No one knows why fixed point came through in the spirit of that
good knight the suspicions, and after something that confirmed suspicions,
news, data and references.

It is believed Torres was the call he took the story from the desktop Costanilla Mompous, and
that will transport Mompous Catalan accent then the Knight's own ears, justifying with adequate
reasons to the case ... It was moved from friendship to put on guard. Perhaps was slander, but
as the kind he ran, it was appropriate to notify the most interested in this for the honor of his name
etc ... The impression that these revelations were made in the confident lover can make you know
how these pages, or because you really have treaty. That man looks so quiet easily passed a
gloomy dejection a childish rage. Rosalia was afraid when he saw him enter that evening three hours
after Amparo having gone to his house, past the scene of fainting. It was Monday afternoon.

Briefly
Augustine told his cousin what he had said, and putting a color incredible, clenching his teeth
and hands, said: "If you lie, the dog I invented it has to pay. "

"Come, come, calm down, for God's sake ...-- said Rosalie -. If you get like ... if you obfuscate,
may see things blacker than they are. In these severe cases everyone should behave as she
is, and you are a decent and thoughtful gentleman.

"

- By your way of speaking - without relent Augustine said - I come
to understand that you also you know ... and this is the time when
neither you nor Bringas You told me a word, at least to put me on
notice.

- About Us - replied the lady with haughty dignity - not
we always talk about what we are not interested, or give advice to
whom we do not ask.

What we wanted to take risks desconceptuar to a person in our family, we gave you when such
a death blow and when we had no security of fact, nor could we give evidence? ... Understand,
son, this is serious ... And say one thing: when you set it to be
your wife "We inquired of us on this delicate point, as seemed natural?

Not so. Beyond you fix it alone, and when we realize it and had it very well cooked and eaten.

In
saying this and what followed, anyone, who carefully observed Rosalia, could have caught in it, along
with the desire to convince his cousin, no less alive to demonstrate their beauty, enhanced on
this occasion for the care of clothing and dressings and ornaments of great opportunity. How
he taught his white teeth, outlining how your neck, how stood to give his slender body swathed
momentary well, were details that you and I reader friend would have noticed, but not Caballero,
the situation of his mind.

"And do not think - said Rosalie with a sad countenance -, we have come to the soul not consulted
us a matter that could compromise your honor ... You have not had in mind what you want, what we
care about you. "

- I see it - Augustine said with sudden start, and regardless of the
tenderness of premium -.

The first thing is to hear what she says.

- I think you're wasting your time if you go home, - said Rosalie
going diligently to contain natural one - boot.

Not find it. I know you will not find ...

Knight looked at her as parallel.

"I have reason to know, and I say no more - he added with studied
coolness of Bringas -.

 At the end of that time she regained
a fair measure of health, although she seemed not likely ever to be strong.

In the meanwhile her school-mates and friends had pretty much all married, or been given in
marriage. She was a stranger to the new set of young people which had come on the stage since
her day, while her former companions lived in a world of new interests, with which she had
nothing in common. Society, in reorganizing itself, had left her on the outside. The present
had moved on, leaving her behind with the past. She asked nothing better. If she was nothing
to the present, the present was still less to her. As to society, her sensitiveness to the
unpleasant impression made by her personal appearance rendered social gatherings distasteful
to her, and she wore a heavy veil when she went to church.

She was an only child. Her mother had long been dead, and when about this time her father died
she was left without near kin. With no ties of contemporary interest to hold her to the present
she fell more and more under the influence of the habit of retrospection.

The only brightness of colour which life could ever have for her lay behind in the girlhood
which had ended but yesterday, and was yet so completely ended. She found her only happiness
in the recollections of that period which she retained. These were the only goods she prized,
and it was the grief of her life that, while she had strong boxes for her money, and locks
and keys for her silver and her linen, there was no device whereby she could protect her store
of memories from the slow wasting of forgetfulness.

She lived with a servant quite alone in the old Ludington homestead, which it was her absorbing
care to keep in precisely the same condition, even to the arrangement of the furniture, in
which it had always been.

If she could have insured the same permanence in the village of Hilton, outside the homestead
enclosure, she would have been spared the cause of her keenest unhappiness. For the hand of
change was making havoc with the village: the railroad had come, shops had been built, and
stores and new houses were going up on every side, and the beautiful hamlet, with its score
or two of old-fashioned dwellings, which had been the scene of her girlhood, was in a fair
way to be transformed into a vile manufacturing village.

Miss Ludington, to whom every stick and stone of the place was dear, could not walk abroad
without missing some ancient landmark removed since she had passed that way before, perhaps
a tree felled, some meadow, that had been a playground of her childhood, dug up for building-lots,
or a row of brick tenements going up on the site of a sacred grove.

Her neighbours generally had succumbed to the rage for improvement, as they called it. There
was a general remodelling and modernizing of houses, and, where nothing more expensive could
be afforded, the paint-brush wrought its cheap metamorphosis. "You wouldn't know Hilton was
the same place," was the complacent verdict of her neighbours, to which Miss Ludington sorrowfully
assented.

It would be hard to describe her impotent wrath, her sense of outrage and irreparable loss,
as one by one these changes effaced some souvenir of her early life. The past was once dead
already; they were killing it a second time. Her feelings at length became so intolerable that
she kept her house, pretty much ceasing to walk abroad.

At this period, when she was between thirty and thirty-five years old, a distant relative left
her a large fortune. She had been well-to-do before, but now she was very rich. As her expenses
had never exceeded a few hundred dollars a year, which had procured her everything she needed,
it would be hard to imagine a person with less apparent use for a great deal of money. And
yet no young rake, in the heyday of youth and the riot of hot blood, could have been more overjoyed
at the falling to him of a fortune than was this sad-faced old maid. She became smiling and
animated. She no longer kept at home, but walked abroad. Her step was quick and strong; she
looked on at the tree-choppers, the builders, and the painters, at their nefarious work, no
more in helpless grief and indignation, but with an unmistakable expression of triumph.

Presently surveyors appeared in the village, taking exact and careful measurements of the single
broad and grassy street which formed the older part of it. Miss Ludington was closeted with
a builder, and engrossed with estimates. The next year she left Hilton to the mercy of the
vandals, and never returned.

But it was to another Hilton that she went.

The fortune she had inherited had enabled her to carry out a design which had been a day-dream
with her ever since the transformation of the village had begun. Among the pieces of property
left her was a large farm on Long Island several miles out of the city of Brooklyn. Here she
had rebuilt the Hilton of her girlhood, in facsimile, with every change restored, every landmark
replaced. In the midst of this silent village she had built for her residence an exact duplicate
of the Ludington homestead, situated in respect to the rest of the village precisely as the
original was situated in the real Hilton.

The astonishment of the surveyors and builders at the character of the work required of them
was probably great, and their bills certainly were, though Miss Ludington would not have grudged
the money had they been ten times greater. However, seeing that the part of the village duplicated
consisted of but one broad maple-planted street, with not over thirty houses, mostly a story
and a half, and that none of the buildings, except the school-house, the little meeting-house,
and the homestead, were finished inside, the outlay was not greater than an elaborate plan
of landscape gardening would have involved.

The furniture and fittings of the Massachusetts homestead, to the least detail, had been used
to fit up its Long Island duplicate, and when all was complete and Miss Ludington had settled
down to housekeeping, she felt more at home than in ten years past.

True, the village which she had restored was empty; but it was not more empty than the other
Hilton had been to her these many years, since her old schoolmates had been metamorphosed into
staid fathers and mothers. Yes, you will find
women in their thousands ... and a thousand times more beautiful, a thousand times more interesting
... So what? Have you been? I presume not, because I sent word to his house and is not there
and nobody knows his whereabouts. Te I swear that's a shame because ... Poor thing! If after
all not bad background. Among these unfortunate, there are excellent natural and even hints of
dignity. What is waiting appearances no one will win this.

"

As he did not answer anything, he seemed more attentive to the flowers of the carpet to said her
cousin, this was to give another address to his affection.

"I repeat that you are not good. You verdigris color ... To see the pulse? Burning ... Rest son, rest
is good for you. Not receive one, do not talk, do not write.

Lie on the couch and wrap the rug. I'll take care, for your health as well I can leave all
my obligations. I do drink, I'll be here all day, and if you get really bad, I'll stay all night
also. "

Augustine rejected the idea of ​​illness.

Between one and another pause, slid Rosalia tips warnings and full
of sweetness and friendship ... "Do not take it so hard ... If you
had consulted time with me ... It is best to go to bed ... 're cold.

"

Later, much later, Augustine, playing without reservation as spontaneous and natural in his soul
existed, let's say these solemn words:

"That woman has me stuck in the heart, and I can not get started."

Upon hearing this, Rosalie took his abode in cashmere and body. It was hot. To comfort his
cousin threw strings of sentences, full of loving and thoughtful
expressions.

Amid of them came up Doña Marcelina Polo, the only person who could
provide damning news the fact, as having written testimony.

"Where do you live that lady?" - Told Knight with momentum -.

Right now I go there.

- It's too late. By God, do not get well.

You look like a character in a novel.

That lady and living with her to bed when the chickens. Tomorrow you can go but not early, because
since the dawn of the three to leave the church. It is best if you send a message to Philip
to set your time.

Entered D. Francisco, who came from their walk.

"What ?...».

- I tell him to get into bed and not want to listen to me.

- Bet
that's it slander? - Thiers said kindly.

Augustine begged them to stay for lunch, which they gladly accepted. Centeno was Costanilla
to tell Prudence (aka Calamity) to give food to the children, because parents would not return
home until late.

XXXVI

Wednesday! ... A worthy successor to the previous day, was all damp
and gloom, the sky crying, the land turned into dirty lake and thick.

You'd think that a large mass of gray chocolate had spilled on the streets. The umbrella flocks
were moving along the sidewalks, cediéndose step with difficulty and covering poor people.
Spouts jets playing drum beats on them, and it lunged at each other, they pecked, scratched. Hats could
be seen like springs, and faces like those of newts and nymphs Marble played the wettest of roles in public
sources.

Augustine looked at this behind the glass of the balcony of his room, and the sound of that
sadness time itself was sung without music this elegy:

"Why did not you stay in Brownsville, gross? Who bade thee meddle in civilization? And you see ...
to the first change since you've been cheated.

You all play as a boy or a savage. When distrust, you're wrong. When you think you are wrong
too. This world is not for you. Your world is the Rio Grande del Norte and the Sierra Madre;
your company the Indian mobs of adventurers brave and ferocious socialize your revolver, your
ideal the money. Who do you get into these wanderings?

Some of fas nefas and others all laugh at you and bamboozle you and exploit you. "

- Lord - Felipe said entering the room -. Doña Marcelina is in the church. Another lady who
lives with her, and whom I know, I am told that you can go to twelve.

D. Francisco soon appeared with a smiling face and wet Carriker. His wife was busy with dance
clothing, and could not come until after noon.

Spoke after so much disturbed the Indian, and Thiers brought out
as a mitigating and conciliatory he suggested his goodness.

It was all slander, and Augustine had better not metiese more inquiries.

Much was saddened that his cousin told him: "One of two things: either I go back to Brownsville,
or me montera put the world. "

They lunched together, and before lunch concluded, Bringas rose from the table impatient eagerness.
He had an idea, and hastened to perform it, confident in the safety
of success.

He left hurriedly to go where we know.

While Rosalie was not claimed that Amparito at home, he might be
back now.

Maybe the neighbors knew the whereabouts of the two sisters. Forward, noble heart, and fear
not.

Knight came later, and by the nuns, the Postigo, Hita Street, the
alley Dog, etc ... went to the streets of the Star.

It is easy to assume that was a humorous thousand demons and did not know to choose between
doubt and certainty of his misfortune.

That such Doña Marcelina, what breed of bird would be?

This is thought to climb the ladder of the house that, older than speak evil. Called, and a maid
told the lady had not come yet, but that does not take even five minutes. We went to the room, and when
a lady was waiting there presentósele very singular appearance, white, fine, clean and airy,
an elderly woman who looked like a kitten with two emeralds for eyes, and walked with feet of
wool without the steps you feel.

"Sir - you said that looking at him sweetly human relic - are you
by chance del Toboso?

".

- No, ma'am - he said - and I am not of Toboso of La Mancha.

- Ah, excuse me ...

And slipped away, looking askance at the light
spots of mud that the visitor had left on the mat.

Augustine noticed the room, which contained about seven comfortably and other furniture anticuadísimos,
but very well preserved, four crucifixes, two children and work of
Jesus four dozen films saints, with branches of evergreens, bows and
ribbons.

There soon came a semblance of mahogany carving behind a black veil.

"Are you Mr. Knight?".

- At your service ... I wanted ...

Doña Marcelina Augustine was passed immediately to a cabinet. After seeing the room seemed
that there was no more comfortable in the world. However, in that cabinet had three. A brazier
was very hot fire to the abandoned piece. The visitor and sat on Pole armchairs.

"Did you see what day?" - Said the lady, lifting her veil and publishing the bas-relief of
your face, Christian had not understood it.

- Yes, ma'am, very bad day ... Then I come to beg you to kindly give me news ...

- I know, I know - replied sternly Polo -. Can I ask you reports, background that unhappy? If
you will permit me, I will keep the greatest secrecy, it is not in
my early carry this story and deal with actions of others.

I, though I be wrong to say it, no I usually hurt even my worst enemies ... It is no praise, but
many who I have hated me full of benefits ...

- In the present case - Caballero said eagerly - you can make an exception for me, telling me
...

- High there - the austere lady interrupted.

I do not count anything, I know nothing, I have not seen nothing, absolutely nothing. What
someone comes and tells me that Amparo is a saint?

I quiet. What you come and tell me that he wants to marry her? I
quiet.

Shut up and shut up is my subject.

Today I got to God, and if he had enough strength to keep to my guns, this just give to me.

- But sir, for the love of God - Augustine said, to the fullest confession -. The truth is before
everything.

- Just some truths are not for those ... Do not ask me anything ...
my mouth is a snap ... Only I tell you, and this not because you might
be interested, but my own satisfaction, that my brother was saved,
my brother is already on its way to Marseille where released within
three days for the Philippines, my brother has a bad back, and there
in those wild lands of my brother will come to herself.

Do you know where is the island of Zamboanga?

Because I have told you, it also comes Carib land. For there, in that blissful Zamboanga my brother
landed within two months, and there will the opportunity to christen heretics and make great
achievements.

This is not to say that I absolutely trust in your salvation, since the goat as its spots, the vicious
strip ever ... to the shooting. Oh, what efforts we had to make last minute! Had you seen ...! What
hombrazo! At the station told us that there will be a cassock Nebuchadnezzar. That is what you
want as long as not return to their old ways, or appear more here ... And do not think you ...
I have a scare ...! It I figure that of Barcelona or Marseilles we returned to Madrid and I
go through the door at least we wait ... You do not know him well.

And you're supposed to lie the natural evil; as if they had not haunted, if they had not sucked
the brains, another rooster will sing.

In a state of annoyance and irritation indescribable, Knight had to restrain not make a blunder.
The truth, he felt like giving him a couple of slaps.

"Ah, - said the timber - do you know that she is not dead Celedonia poor? We took the hospital
the day after the scandal ... And even tell you another thing, I did not see nothing, I know
nothing. "

- Madam, I do not know who Caledonia, nor do I care. Come to mine. I know, I know you has two
letters ...

His irritation led him to dispense with all courtesy and sensitivity. Raised the question in rude
terms, saying:

"I need you to give me these two letters. I buy them, you hear it well, buy them. You say. "

- Oh, I do not remember that - Marcelina said, addressing one of the
comfortable.

- Shopping - Agustín repeated, tasting the bitterness
of his curiosity satisfied.

The Polo stirred a time when the top drawer. Her back was to Knight, a fairly distance. Augustine
felt rustling of papers. After a pause, the voice of Marcelina and said:

"For you must know that there's nothing here, nothing of what you want ... Touch you to another
door, here does not commit the reputation of any person, good or bad. If any rengloncillo appears
in these caches, I will follow the advice of Father Nones, who told me: 'O deliver its owner or
the flames, 'and I ...».

He turned in front of Knight with his hands behind his back.

"Nothing, sir, nothing. I keep to my guns.

I do not harm anyone or my major enemies. Before I die to stop sending me accomplish what D.
Juan Manuel, and as I have not to see the interest, and I have no
desire to do so, you attend ...».

With quick movement uncovered the brazier and threw it in his hand what he had. Knight ran to
save from the fire that threw that devilish female, but came too late. Embers were alive,
and the curious saw nothing but a paper twisted and curled thin lifting call ... Nothing but a
name he read was the signing and said: Torment. With the final or linking a garabatito ... Yes,
it was his garabatito, his person autographed in that trait looked like a curly hair.

Angry and unable to save the forms imposed upon him a good education, because he was man belonging
to nature more than the Company, which stood as something borrowed, faced the wooden effigy,
and said in the most brutal.

"I was annoyed you ... Left you with God or the Devil, who is now
in the body, and I rejoice that soon burst ...».

Escaped left, furious ... Took the direction of his house, but had
not gone twenty yards when had an inspiration, a true celestial lightning
entered his mind.

The street of Beatas was very close ... Secret instinct told him
that there could be burning disease of your questions better remedy
than elsewhere.

"Who knows - he thought his spirit gorge from confusion to another - when all I cheat and
have fun with me, she can be it tells me the truth ... Wow, that
if we leave now that he is innocent ... But where is he?, Why is he
hiding?

... I will hide it so you will not see ... Damn my blindness, my
inexperience in the world!

... Rosalia deceiving me, deceiving me and all my friends play with
this poor man, who understands riddles ... Who can tell me the truth?

... What voice hear the ringing in my soul?, "which says: kill it, or that says forgive her? Gross,
unlucky wild, you should not be out of your forests, Jurate says
yes you the truth, forgive ... Yes, the spare ... I feel like to forgive
her, Mrs. Company ... If he is guilty and is sorry, forgive her, Mrs.
Company as hell, and I pass to you by the nose.

"

"Miss Amparo - told the concierge - has gone half an hour ago with
a gentleman ...».

- With a gentleman?

- Yes, glasses ... tiny, with
a color of dried figs Carriker.

- Ah, my cousin ... Abur ...

It
seems that the devil did.

I had never walked the streets in such a hurry, and never had so
many embarrassments.

The umbrella is latching every moment with people coming in the opposite direction. You believe
that they wanted to bite and throw each other the The flooded water. Then, he kept finding
people known to each moment I stopped to ask about his health and say, "Have you seen how long?".
Reached think that had gathered on his way to mortify. And for this, Lord, had it was a commitment
that limited the number of your friends!

'D. Augustine, weather!

Tomorrow is new moon and may change "- said in the alley Dog a dependent
of Trujillo.

- Abur, Abur ...

Finally got home ... By opening the
door, said to Philip:

"Miss Amparo awaits you ...».

And he, hearing this, shook with shock and grief, curiosity and fear
of satisfying ... What would she face?, What would you say?

"And my cousin Bringas, is too?".

- No, sir, the lady came alone.

Knight went through the rooms. The first was not in the second either. What surprised him most
was hearing the tune of the birds.

But at the moment to put his foot in the second cabinet, the music suddenly stopped. Had run
the string. Silence suspended following the gig was so respectful and mournful, that Augustine
was afraid ... Well there was not. He saw a glass on the table, a bottle. Then our illustrious
friend up with some trepidation the curtain of the bedroom and saw
a foot ... Frightened stopped looking better, because the balcony
of the bedroom was closed and there was very little light ... He saw
a black skirt ... hanging arm, hand touching the ground ... a pink
ear ... a scarf covering face ... He approached the horrible suspicion
that there were no signs of life that body; so still was ... Looked
closely ... Touched, called ... Yes, living ... breathing work as
if suffering from a strong grief.

The eyes were closed, dry ...

Leaving the cabinet again, Knight
saw the recipe ... He read briefly ran out ... Felipe came to meet
in the classroom ...

"To call a doctor - said the master -.

Say, Miss came alone?, Did you take ...?». dresses

- A medicine, yes sir. He sent me to bring it to the pharmacy.

- You! ... Doomed! - Augustine said attacking the servant with such fury, that thought reached the
end of his days.

- Mr Philip ...-- stammered crying - I did the medicine ...

- What? ... dog ... murderer.

- Do not worry ... The pharmacist told me it was poison, and then
I ... Oh, do not hit me!

... I came home, took an empty bottle, filled it with tap water ... and burst water ...

- What banished, executioner?

- It took a little tincture of guaiac ... brought the Doña Marta when I ached molars.

- Call Dona Marta ... Not notify the doctor yet.

Knight returned to the cabinet. On the table was also a letter. Breaking the envelope, read these
crooked letters written in pencil: All true. I do not deserve forgiveness, but pity. Then I had
the name of Amparo, and after the o, garabatito ... Infamous garabatito!

... She ran to her, because he felt moan ... The wild-eyed suicide Miron and began saying a word,
very inconsistent and without any sense.

"This is madness ... attack to the head "- said Dona Marta, who had come hurrying ...

- To call a doctor, no, no, not to call.

Wait, wait ...

He returned to the cabinet.

Or the man was insane or lacked very little.

- Dona Marta.

- Lord ...

- What do we do?

- This is serious. He says it is nonsense and an ember in the head ...

- Take her home ... take her home immediately, at his house - pulling Knight said of the confusion
a clear purpose -. Take charge you, Dona Marta, that goes well, and leave you with it. You,
Philip, you bring a car, but a decent car, a good car ... No, better
will you bring the first to find ... Dona Marta, take care you take,
and take care that nothing is missing ... Then, Felipe, alert the
doctor, a good doctor, are you?, And say going there, home ... Arropármela,
say, bun ... That is not cool ... Soon; the accoutrement ... That
will not be anything.

Under these orders, looked even from the cabinet,
though pitiful beautiful picture: the foot discovered, the hanging
arm, the pale oval face, the mouth half open ... Oh, sweet clothes
...! With broken heart my man locked himself in his office ... If
you do not cry was because I could, which did not lack desire.

XXXVII

Four
days later, according to insurance data, supplied by the diligent
observation of Rye, was D. Agustin Caballero in the self and a convalescent
state of severe disease. Its wrong color and allowances announced
insomnia, bad temper and mood disorder, a manifestation perhaps liver,
complicated with melancholy or depressive feelings. And it is noteworthy
that had seldom been our good friend so talkative, only speaking great
things they are said to himself. The cast of this comedy Tell them
performed a monologue or parliament Long, who had been shot four days
before, and had overtones of conclusion, so that if that monologue
was heard, the public would be, as it were, throwing stones. By repetition
febrile ideas and concepts that soliloquy was unworthy of reproduction.
From time time an idea that intimate discourse detached from gushing
out, condensing into sentence pronounced. This phrase, echoing in
the cabinet, had an echo, which was issued by the Rosalía Bringas
authorized lips:

"You're right, it seems very well thought out. What
you leave in America is a silly feature childish. Go a few days to
Bordeaux, and there you will be distracted. Then come back here, where
you many friends where you are so loved and respected ... and you
take care that no bones about tripping. "

Were in the cabinet of
songbirds, which had not reopened the peak from this sad set. Rosalie
had ventured to vary the location and placement of some objects of
pure desire to bully. Perhaps unwittingly, took some air homemaker
house, and gave sovereign provisions anyway. The previous night, Sir,
which irritated genius was manifested in the most trivial things,
had said haughtily: "I do not want not touch anything ... Everything
on the site it occupies ...». Upon hearing this, the lady had responded
somewhat bewildered: "Well, man ... I do not think disarming the small
altar ... There you have it all ... I do not get anything. "

That
day, after passing his whole soul the resolution of the short trip
to Bordeaux, the lady became chronic verbal Party held at the Palace
the night before. As had entered the street, sat on the sofa with
his cashmere cuff and veil. Lying on a couch indolent the humanity
of the great Thiers discreet, silent and melancholy, against his custom,
cause of a serious accident that happened at the ball, and not away,
alas, no a second of your mind.

Knight went back and forth with his
hands in his pockets. Without hearing the laudatory descriptions that
the soiree was his cousin, strikes a mirror, and looking ... Here
is a piece taken Random their endless parliament, rather free translation:

"Gross,
stupid, simple, or do not know what name to give you ... Why did you
get into civilization? "Who told you you leave your land, which is
the border region, where men live paddle attached to a rough work?
I'm laughing at your outrageous itching to lay square in the middle
of the order, being a perfect conference regular in these mechanisms
in Europe ... Go a fiasco, matey! ... Háblate family; pondérate the
state, offered in the Religion ... In the first change, civilization,
established on these bases as a leftover pot their tripods, falls
and gives you a thump on the nose and I decays and smears you all,
putting lost to shame and ridicule ... Regular life, law, system,
method, concert, harmony ... do not exist for the bear. The bear retreats
to his solitude, the bear can not be a parent; Bear can not be a citizen,
the bear can not be Catholic, the bear can not be anything, and recovers
its wild will ... Yes, rustic adventure, do not you see how sad and
stupid was your test? Do not you see everyone laugh at you? Do not
you know that every step you take is a setback? You're like which
has never set foot marble, and the first step down. Her pains to guard the memory of the beautiful past, to preserve it from the
second death of forgetfulness, were now all needless; she could trust it with God, to be restored
to her in his eternal present, its lustre undimmed, and no trait missing.

The laying aside of her mourning garb was but one indication of the change that had come over her.

The whole household, from scullion to coachman, caught the inspiration of her brighter mood.
The servants laughed aloud about the house. The children of the gardener, ever before banished
to other parts of the grounds, played unrebuked in the sacred street of the silent village.

As for Paul, since the revelation had come to him that the lady of his love was no mere dream
of a life for ever vanished, but was herself alive for evermore, and that he should one day
meet her, his love had assumed a colour and a reality it had never possessed before. To him
this meant all it would have meant to the lover of a material maiden, to be admitted to her
immediate society.

The sense of her presence in the village imparted to the very air a fine quality of intoxication.
The place was her shrine, and he lived in it as in a sanctuary.

It was not as if he should have to wait many years, till death, before he should see her. As
soon as he gave place to the later self which was to succeed him, he should be with her. Already
his boyish self had no doubt greeted her, and she had taken in her arms the baby Paul who had
held his little arms out to her picture twenty years before.

To be in love with the spirit of a girl, however beautiful she might have been when on earth,
would doubtless seem to most young men a very chimerical sort of passion; but Paul, on the
other hand, looked upon the species of attraction which they called love as scarcely more than
a gross appetite. During his absence from home he had seen no woman's face that for a moment
rivalled Ida's portrait. Shy and fastidious, he had found no pleasure in ladies' society, and
had listened to his classmates' talk of flirtations and conquests with secret contempt. What
did they know of love? What had their coarse and sensuous ideas in common with the rare and
delicate passion to which his heart was dedicated--a love asking and hoping for no reward,
but sufficient to itself?

He had spent but a few weeks at home when Miss Ludington began to talk quite seriously to him
about studying for some profession. He was rather surprised at this, for he had supposed she
would be glad to have him at home, for a while at lease, now that he had done with college.
To Paul, at this time, the idea of any pursuit which would take him away from the village was
extremely distasteful, and he had no difficulty in finding excuses enough for procrastinating
a step for which, indeed, no sort of urgency could be pretended.

He was to be Miss Ludington's heir, and any profession which he might adopt would be purely
ornamental at most.

Finding that he showed no disposition to consider a profession she dropped that point and proposed
that he should take six months of foreign travel, as a sort of rounding off of his college
course. To the advantages of this project he was, however, equally insensible. When she urged
it on him, he said, "Why, aunty, one would say you were anxious to get rid of me. Don't we
get on well together? Have you taken a dislike to me? I'm sure I'm very comfortable here. I
don't want to do anything different, or to go off anywhere. Why won't you let me stay with you?"

And so she had to let the matter drop.

The truth was she had become anxious to get him away; but it was on his account, not hers.

In putting his room to rights one day since his return from college she had come upon a scrap
of paper containing some verses addressed "To Ida." Paul had rather a pretty knack at turning
rhymes, and the tears came to Miss Ludington's eyes as she read these lines. They were an attempt
at a love sonnet, throbbing with passion, and yet so mystical in some of the allusions that
nothing but her knowledge of Paul's devotion to Ida would have given her a clue to his meaning.
She was filled with apprehension as she considered the effect which this infatuation, if it
should continue to gain strength, might have upon one of Paul's dreamy temperament and excessive
ideality. That she had devoted her own lonely and useless life to the cult of the past did
not greatly matter, although in the light of her present happier faith she saw and regretted
her mistake; but as for permitting Paul's life to be overshadowed by the same influence she
could not consent to it. Something must be done to get him away from home, or at least to divert
the current of his thought. The failure of her efforts to induce him to consider any scheme
that involved his leaving the village threw her into a state of great uneasiness.

CHAPTER IV.

At about this time it chanced that Miss Ludington drove into Brooklyn one morning to do some
shopping. She was standing at a counter in a large store, examining goods, when she became
aware that a lady standing at another counter was attentively regarding her. The lady in question
was of about her own height and age, her hair being nearly white, like Miss Ludington's; but
it was evident from the hard lines of her face and her almost shabby dress that life had by
no means gone so easily with her as with the lady she was regarding so curiously. Salted meat, bad bacon, miniestra minced, and
meals usually stale have been the mainstay of its individuals. Reduced rational treatment to
each other, the risks many of the wild Indians, and Breakfast miserable shacks, or huts of
straw, irresistible to the inclement stations. See inequality as the average of one to another.
In the Sierra Morena there was more to do than build the houses, simple operation for the many
materials and operators that were held. For the cultivation of land were provided with oxen tamed,
and excellent tools that filled their wishes. In the Patagonian coast around lacked: the rigors
of cold climate, particularly in San Julian, and only found the greatest relief where he was
suspicious of the risk. The savage Indians held and encouraged us at that port, providing relief
to the unfortunate people with guanaco meat, without whose help had perished, and the Black River,
with the hares, horses and many cattle. Now So Check against the advantages enjoyed by the Sierra
Morena with the misfortunes of those Rio San Julian and Black, and fairly be said that everything
was happy and joy, and here all unhappiness and sadness. Despite this inequality, and be near
a wisest king that manages the universe, plotted intrigues and contradictions that are notorious
of which can be inferred that such a lengthy mediated hemisphere where only the two commissioners
have been and will hold a impregnable rock.

PART TWO.

                         

The whale fishery, the supply of salt in the province of Buenos Aires, and provide for this means
the meat trade of many that are lost in the vast fields of the Rio Plate, facilitate port for
ships sailing up our Sea to the south and become more soft and comfortable this navigation,
paving the way by water or by land to Valdivia and Chile, where with less cost and risk can be
made transitive and trade that achieves Buenos Aires, and ultimately repair and extend the
one with the capital in corambre of their campaigns, maybe even the Black River, linking to this
importance of security borders that underlies the increase in populations of Indians and sugecion
media attract the true knowledge of God and the good of the state, are the utilities that
the we can take time and get in the conservation of the establishment of Black River. Vastness
and awesome of them to the first impression, shows a strange aspect to be watched with the utmost
contempt. Notwithstanding anything to intimidate me, because love and spirit of patriotism I
looked to the just, pious and charitable intentions of the King, in the execution of these establishments,
he defies everything.

I am going to meet for the same series of particulars that I have proposed, the reasons and
fundamentals that I attend, drawn from the experience and knowledge I've taken of those Parages.

The
British have opened our eyes to the inexhaustible treasure brings
whaling; because of such remote regions, and to much risk, they are
delivered to the discretion of the seas without more ports without
more aid, more soft drinks or the insecurity of the elements, and
what drive their boats.

With these hardships and dangers make their fisheries, and take very great profits of ourselves,
through the oil that we sell to careen our ships: so that, with this trade off our shores, we
are pilgrims of it, and lose that costs money, which ought to be to benefit the state, and we
could acquire by the same means of this nation and others, whose interests would give much increase
and glory to ours.

I refer not repeated acts of the times we have found in these waters to the English engaged in
fishery, because the dam is enough that they did the day of the year March 10 earlier near
the frigate called the Mayo, about 34 to 35 degrees south, with other
of the same nation were engaged in this task, and recognizing the
frigate Santa Sabina, and Perpetua, on the journey they had just done
to Montevideo, leading to VE I only go to demonstrate how different
we can take advantage of these utilities through the establishment
of the Black River.

The attempt that just made D. Francisco de Medina, resident and trade in this city in the port
of San José, with the frigate called the Ventura, (and before May when it was in the the English)
gives us a true knowledge of the proportions that has that port. Without leaving him 50 whales
harpooned in a month. It is true that this laudable enterprise miscarried the poor quality of the
harpoons, and ineptitude of those operators.

Repeating the same attempts, repaired the causes that failed, it's all up, and with the aid that
clears the establishment of the Black River in the sale of its fruits, is easier and less burdensome
to the person concerned this fishery, and at the same moment as does
need to from that port, without touching on the Rio de la Plata, to
journey with her cargo to those of Spain.

The establishment of the Black River will sustain and prosper with the output of its fruits,
and through them can be such fishing without the expense of maintaining other the smaller vessels
that are needed for it. The others that are more expensive and expenses, it is provided through
their cargoes, may engage in conduct salt Puerto de San José, or Black River to the capital of Buenos
Aires and Montevideo, and a same operations as an accessory, does this useful supply the province,
its abundance crossing convenience and benefit to salt meats that are lost in its massive campaign
by introducing this new market in Spain, Africa or other European Parages: for use only with
the much of our military and prisons will release, and gets to avoid extractions money that
attracts us to buy in the north, are to the benefit of the kingdom. Stakeholders in whaling will
take advantage of what you can pay them the first kind. The Buenos Aires natural populations and their
neighbors in the cattle MatAns to the collection of corambre have this new utility to increase their
wages. Owners can take perhaps by this means the costs of them free, and Black River are engaged
in work of the salt out and driving to the pier, which is another great support to their livelihood.
For these media has to go take the population increase, and perhaps, seeing the fruit to be drawn
from these new plantations, the Spanish extended their fisheries further south, and we discover
and provide some comfort and provides ports for ships arriving sail to Lima and back to promote
the establishment of San Julian, as experience has expressed its fruits can survive, and recognizing
the Strait of Magellan the accuracy you need and deserve, where all paths ensure there are plenty
of woods: circumstance credited adapted to people, without any evidence to the contrary cause the
effect of populations was Sarmiento, who could not have other result with method, forms and regulations
that attempt.

In Tierra del Fuego, which is composed of several islands, the year of 1765, or 1766, was lost
ship called the Conception of Escurruchea, on the shores of one of them, about 14 miles the
mouth of the Strait. The crew was saved, made itself a pretty boat transport to transport their supplies
to Buenos Aires, where the Governor reported to D. Pedro Ceballos, that the Indians of this
island had been very human and compassionate, helping to pass timber for ship building, and
assisting them in all, with other features and those Parages news:
all of which sent D. Pedro Ceballos an exact relationship to the Court,
and proposed establishing a colony on the island.

But, having been on the occasion that it was bought to the French the Falklands, had no effect
this proposal.

That these stories offer many people hope to survive in those areas, and be very useful to
trade, state and religion can not be doubted.

The latitude of 52 degrees and minutes, the pole, although very cold weather can not be compared
with The situation in Sweden, Denmark and Russia, which, being over 70, not without grounds
fertile and very abundant.

Love without the help of cattle, without the benefit of agriculture, without proof of the experiments,
fix and improve the quality of land, with knowledge of weather to
use the work, and the effect of its productions, is to shoot white
eyes closed.

Desert climates vary by the competition of people and livestock that make a stable population.
With the fires, wings and heat of the living, little by little tuning the atmosphere, land and produces
steam, which make it more benign and is attracted to another fertility.

These are the principles and secure foundations, which have to sustain and support a business
so arduous, and some difficulties at the sight of all have graduated from impossible. The Black
River establishment and promotion of whaling should be the sole agent that over time has insensibly
the raid and conquer.

On the day, which is committed to promoting this fishery for their own profit have to see required,
the duration, to keep a job or temporary establishment in the port San Jose to repair his people
from the weather, and preserve foodstuffs, utensils and effects.

If this trade to join the salt, which abounds there is year-round occupancy. To They need oxen,
and the fresh meat would be very helpful and inexpensive. For all offers proportion those areas:
promoting the raising of livestock, may abound over time in terms take some fruit of their hides and
meat, because there will be easy and cheaper this trade, the abundance and excellent salt salt
flats, and be of superior quality such meat to the fields of Montevideo and Buenos Aires,
so their salty pastures. This is another incentive, added to the background, a population ready
to make that useful port for our ships sailing to the South Sea in arrivals, as the immediacy
Black River and stock can be cooled as needed, to prosper in this way navigations, closing the door
to the English why have easy entry into this river, and consequently in the whole kingdom of Peru,
cutting off the progress they make, and can forward with the lights that we have taken these important
discoveries in the fishing the whale, and all this at greater length I have explained to him that
my Lord Vertiz the memorandum is dated October 13, to which I refer.

If our Spanish arrived to establish the trade with accessories that are proposed in terms which the
Crown to produce the same or greater interest out of Portugal the island of Santa Catalina,
by granting temporary licenses to companies established to this end may be the most effective
and proportionate way to go recognizing the coast and Strait, and
advancing stocks.

Optional only the real power to grant temporary or permanent license to use of these fisheries, as seas
belonging to his dominions. Eyes open knowledge the great practical value of this trade, will attract
interest to their use.

This is the fruit that can take the crown, not by the interests that rotates Portugal, but by the survey
and those populations most advanced Parages south she cares about or interested. At that excels in
the most useful, and we show port insurance for the shelter of the boats, offering people, these
costs compénsesele the granting of any privilege or license to the fishery in the time it seems
regular, formal contractual obligation and mortgages. Unansele those graces which allows the real
protection and sovereignty, and thus, without squandering the royal purse, get the These wastes
to useful Rey domains, preparing a means to attract true knowledge many heathen souls occupy
in the propagation of the faith and usefulness of State and provide different benefits to navigation
and trade.

While the Magellan Strait and islands of Fire is important to us a true and accurate recognition by if
you allow ports that provide us passage to the South Sea, no be neglected the Gulf of San
Jorge, which is located at 45 degrees and minutes to look with the
indifference that so far.

The recognition that in March 1780 did the pilots of the expedition which came to control D. Antonio
Viedma, to set in San Julian, only recognized with the launch of
the packet boat San Sebastian, about 40 miles from the northern side,
pulling the west of the gulf.

For and news reports are from practical Indians their surroundings, ensuring that to this course
comes very close to the mountains, where some streams draining water sweet, and half the land to
them, is the way of the Indians of San Julian to Tucamelel river, or of the Incarnation. This
is evidenced by the daily recognition Villarino Black River, which relates the journey they
had just done to that river near those expressed Indians. If the English recognize and take
hold of the Gulf, would have input for him to Valdivia and other towns of the kingdom of Peru,
and he could easily be established without Our news. Abundant large number of whales, which place provides
the fishing greater advantages than others. These grounds, that to be true express their importance,
encourage stakeholders in the fishery to its recognition, we must disabuse, and give a true view
of the importance of the gulf, and communication that is feared. The fact is that the Indians
of those Parages transiting the Black River by the way you say, and from this river go to
the borders of Buenos Aires.

All of these utilities will attract to us the survival and development of the population of Rio
Black. She has to shake hands at the port of San José with its fruits and cattle, and as scale,
such aid must go to other towns, discovering the ways that pass the
Indians, their watery, campaigns and mountains to the Straits, because
of all there is news and has only missed the previous ministry, the
heat required in such cases, that in time the two Super-mayors have
been on their committees, have but recognized the principal of this
continent.

The internment of trade for Valdivia, Chile, Mendoza and other Parages by the Black River, would
be very useful for smaller gap compared to that of Buenos Aires, for the help of navigation, and because
they have other amenities that can make softer asperities the road.

The more enemies opposed the establishment of the Black Rio admit
the usefulness of this hospitalization, but are impossible, speaking
with such courage and security, as if they had measured inch by inch
on those roads, and had learned with a practical knowledge of navigation
River.

No need sugeto whom he should confess the justice of instruction and superior talent, that supports
and sustains the same impossibility, and they assure me it has become
clear in a paper that gave the government greater, the more steps
that I could not get.

Would be most useful These challenges were reciprocal and mutual knowledge of them: for the contentious
and rational opposition is the discovery of the truth which is that crave and seek those who
seek the wisdom. If so many opinions to be taken to give ground with the establishments, that is, to
deter the King and his Ministers of the importance of them, they
had first gone to the Super-intendant, to inform its view and respond,
then it would have had more news and knowledge that shed light the
whole truth.

For these reasons, the aforementioned request and feel like paper, they are matters should not be
booked as much mystery about sugetos they have earned the trust of King for the performance of
this important commission, mostly when it seems has run between people who have no connection with
these materials, which I notice those points most essential for this role, though confusing,
of which I will to meet and demonstrate As I proposed.

Two are the most powerful objections to this individual seems to show, in which supports and
maintains the grounds of their opposition. The first, which made navigation difficult Villarino
in recognition of Black River to the Catapuliché, where she arrived, she herself demonstrates
its irrelevance to trade. The second grade of impassable mountain ranges, from that place to
Valdivia.

For the same operations, expressed in log Villarino, this individual demonstrates the Black River
inaccessible in its navigation. If we would have to be to that point, at that station, to that
state in which they found and navigated the river Villarino, it is
necessary to confess futility, but this varies with the time difference,
and repeated tests over give a true view of the channels, reefs, waterfalls
and river flows, showing how to overcome them with other aid, seems
somehow strange that so vividly, without waiting for other than practical
knowledge, is useless to condemn and fail for a case that both interest
to our happiness.

Villarino navigation was made at the station opposite. The forty-five days we stopped at the Choelechel,
food waiting to be continued, we delayed the time, So when he arrived at the confluence with Diamond
makes the Black River, had fallen water, in terms that caused the
hardship of his voyage.

This lack discovered jumps and reefs, and their maturity was the greatest difficulty. If he
had come to this recognition for the month of July, which is the time that begin growing, and
last until March, would be less difficult and softer, not so many breaks were discovered and
reefs, and carcasses would not cause so vehement currents caused constriction of them, as with
most water extends the river and avoids the momentum of its effects. With the help of horses
or mules (that could not fend Villarino, the risks that were expected of the Indians, who are
the attractiveness of their invasions) was smoothed and facilitated navigation and throwing them
to the towpath, falling all the work of the sailors on the strength
and vigor of these animals, removing and opening the way for the banks
of the river to do useful these operations.

To take a true knowledge of all this, it is necessary that the different experiences seriousness
of the case he asks: We must not defer to the relationship of a hasty and obscure tentative,
which may be misleading for many reasons.

Discoverer is characteristic of all ponder the difficulties and work that has prevailed to to assert
their merit, and even without fail the sincerity and good faith, those first impressions in
humans often cause different looks in proportion to the affection in which he is caught. Would
not it strange that he and his Villarino, the loneliness of those spot, lack of communication,
and others perhaps, I produgesen an affection or passion hateful in his imagination soar to
lofty mountains of difficulty accessible hills or ravines.

When they discovered the Black River, the first pilot of the royal fleet, D. Manuel Brunel, and
infantry lieutenant D. Pedro Garcia, the San Antonio Zumaca Oliveyra, such was the impression
they caused the bar, which retreated to the port of San José, and
gave for impossible input.

Villarino was, and proved otherwise, and on the day it is so easy, windy the bow on board have
entered the launches. If we had been to the decision and inform sugetos those we would not have been
a disappointment so clear.

Black river navigation presents is not impossible, but difficult: it is fitting to all principles, since
the best facilities that we despise in the day, at its source would
cost hard work and maturity.

The time and the practical demonstration of the importance of this post and walk, subsisting
the establishment of the Black River, are to give light to start preparing and paving the horror,
much difficulty as it appears, extending its upstream populations, which will serve to your comfort
level, prepare more interest to trade; contain the audacity Indians
in insults and robberies that experience the frontiers of Buenos Aires,
will be more solid foundation on which to found their hopes of reducing
these infidels inhabitants of the vast and fertile lands that make
up the skirts of Huechuhuehuem and ranges, to Concepcion, Chile, whose
industries benefit operations wool, ponchos and blankets that make
the cultivation of agriculture in which we imitate, fixed population,
but widely dispersed from their homes, we offer the most extensive
and happy ideas for the exaltation of our holy faith, and prosperity
of the State and the day may come that imitation we laugh at these
apparent difficulties.

 She could have sent the address at once, as she had it; but Mrs. Legrand was
so overrun with business that an application to her by letter, especially from a stranger like
Miss Ludington, might not have any result. And so Mrs. Rhinehart, who had been only too happy
to oblige any friend of Mrs. Slater's, had called personally upon Mrs. Legrand to arrange for
the séance. The medium had told her at first that she was full of previous engagements for
a month ahead, and that it would be impossible to give Miss Ludington a séance. When, however,
Mrs. Rhinehart told her that Miss Ludington's purpose in asking for the séance was to test
the question whether our past selves have immortal souls distinct from our present selves,
Mrs. Legrand became greatly interested, and at once said that she would cancel a previous appointment,
and give Miss Ludington a séance the following evening, at her parlours, No. -- East Tenth
Street, at nine o'clock. Mrs. Legrand had said that while she had never heard a belief in the
immortality of past selves avowed, there had not been lacking in her relations with the spirit-world
some mysterious experiences that seemed to confirm it. She should, therefore, look forward
to the issue of the experiment the following evening with nearly as much confidence, and quite
as much interest, as Miss Ludington herself. Mrs. Rhinehart hoped that the following evening
would be convenient for Miss Ludington. She had assumed the responsibility of making the engagement
positive, as she might have failed in securing a séance altogether had she waited to communicate
with Miss Ludington. Hoping that "the conditions would be favourable," she remained, &c. &c.

When Miss Ludington had read this letter to Paul, she intimated, though rather faintly, that
it was still not too late to withdraw from the enterprise; they could send Mrs. Legrand her
fee, say that it was not convenient for them to come on the evening fixed, and so let the matter
drop. Paul stared at her in astonishment, and said that, if she did not feel like going, he
would go alone, as he had at first proposed. Upon this Miss Ludington once more declared that
they would go together, and said nothing further about sacrificing the appointment.

The fact is she did not really wish to sacrifice it. She was experiencing a revulsion of feeling;
Mrs. Rhinehart's letter had affected her almost as strongly as Mrs. Slater's talk. The fact
that Mrs. Legrand had at once seen the reasonableness and probability of the belief in the
immortality of past selves made it difficult for Miss Ludington to think of her as a mere vulgar
impostor. The vague hint of the medium's as to strange experiences with the spirit world, confirmatory
of this belief, appealed to her imagination in a powerful manner. Of what description might
the mysterious monitions be, which, coming to this woman in the dim between-world where she
groped, had prepared her to accept as true, on its first statement, a belief that to others
seemed so hard to credit? What clutchings of spirit fingers in the dark! What moanings of souls
whom no one recognised!

The confidence which Mrs. Legrand had expressed that the séance would prove a success affected
Miss Ludington very powerfully. It impressed her as the judgment of an expert; it compelled
her to recognize not only as possible, but even as probable, that, on the evening of the following
day, she should behold the beautiful girl whom once, so many years before, she had called herself;
for so at best would words express this wonder.

With a trembling ecstasy, which in vain she tried to reason down, she began to prepare herself
for the presence of one fresh from the face of God and the awful precincts of eternity.

As for Paul, there was no conflict of feeling with prejudice in his case; he gave himself wholly
up to a delirious expectation. How would his immortal mistress look? How would she move? What
would be her stature--what her bearing? How would she gaze upon him? If not with love he should
die at her feet. If with love how should he bear it?

Mrs. Rhinehart's letter had been received in the morning, and during the rest of the day Miss
Ludington and Paul seemed quite to forget each other in their absorption in the thoughts suggested
by the approaching event. They sat abstracted and silent at table, and, on rising, went each
their own way. In the exalted state of their imaginations the enterprise they had in hand would
not bear talking over.

When she retired to bed Miss Ludington found that sleep was out of the question. About two
o'clock in the morning she heard Paul leave his room and go downstairs. Putting on dressing-gown
and slippers she softly followed him. There was a light in the sitting-room and the door was
ajar. Stepping noiselessly to it she looked in.

Paul was standing before, the fireplace, leaning on the mantelpiece, and looking up into the
eyes of the girl above, smiling and talking softly to her, Miss Ludington entered the room
and laid her hand gently on his arm. Her appearance did not seem to startle him in the least.
"Paul, my dear boy!" she said, "you had better go to bed."

"It's no use," he said; "I can't sleep, and I had to come down here and look at her. Think,
just think, aunty, that to-morrow we shall see her."

The young fellow's nervous excitement culminated in a burst of ecstatic tears, and soon afterwards
Miss Ludington induced him to go to bed.

How much more he loved the girl than even she did! She was filled with dread as she thought
of the effect which a disappointment of the hope he had given himself up to might produce.
And what folly, after all, it was to expect anything but disappointment!

The spectacle of Paul's fatuous confidence had taken hers away.

CHAPTER VI

As the drive over to East Tenth Street was a long one, the carriage had been ordered at seven
o'clock, and soon after tea, of which neither Miss Ludington nor Paul had been able to take
a mouthful, they set out.

"I am afraid we are doing something very wrong and foolish," said Miss Ludington, feebly, as
the carriage rolled down the village street.

During the drive of nearly two hours not another word was said.

The carriage at length drew up before the house in Tenth Street. It stood in a brick block,
and there was no sign of the business pursued within, except a small white card on the door
bearing the words, "Mrs. Legrand. Materializing, Business, and Test Medium. Clairvoyant."

An old-looking little girl of ten or twelve years of age opened the door. The child's big black
eyes, and long snaky locks falling about a pale face, gave her an elfish look quite in keeping
with the character of the house. She at once ushered the callers into the front parlour, where
a lady and gentleman were sitting, who proved to be Mrs. Legrand and her manager and man of
business, Dr. Hull.

The latter was a tall person, of highly respectable and even imposing appearance, to which
a high forehead, a pair of gold-bowed spectacles, and a long white beard considerably added.
He looked like a scholar, and his speech was that of a man of education.

Mrs. Legrand was a large woman, with black hair sprinkled with grey and worn short like a man's.
She had a swarthy complexion, and her eyes were surrounded by noticeably large dark rings,
giving an appearance of wretched ill-health. Her manner was extremely languid, as of a person
suffering from nervous exhaustion. She kept her eyes half shut, and spoke as if with an effort.

"Did Mrs. Rhinehart tell you," she said to Miss Ludington, "of the interest which I feel in
your theory, that the souls of our past selves exist in spirit-land? If my séance to-night
realizes your expectations, spirit science will have taken a great step forward."

"My conviction will remain the same whatever the result may be to night," said Miss Ludington. Traders and other targets found by chance in mission, usually take part
in these amusements, courting the dancers, who dare a bit when it's punch, and are not to pray
and to perform the different dances used in Santa Cruz.

Bolivians white van traveling in the province in canoes made from a single hollowed log: These vessels
are generally nine to twelve yards long, on one or two wide, are very low in the middle board
and rarely, being charged, beyond two or three inches to the surface of the waves, and so that
the minor crash into a tree floating water enters them in abundance. The canoes of a regular size
generally recognized four or five trunks, and at most three passengers to take cover from the sun or
from bad weather under a canopy of leather where you can barely sit. The number of rowers VARIES the
length of the vessel, to direct, remain standing in the rear the captain Canoe and his assistant,
two other Indians are sitting on the opposite extremity, being careful prevent and avoid pregnancy.
The rowers, placed in the middle of them two by two, do not leave hand throughout the day's
big and wide paddles which serve to promote small boat. All these Indians begins the day with
a swim, and scratch the day are already underway: the top to make about eight for lunch, and
before going any further take a second bathroom. At noon they stop again for an hour for lunch,
and then navigate until evening. When the traveler is a personage of distinction, send administrators
a canoe loaded with food, where food is prepared hours to rule without detensiones waste time. In
all traffic Indians play their tasks with greater heat as possible and not given an idea of
​​the lengthy care that cater to travelers, while always alert to guess and to prevent their
children wishes.

When you have to climb a river, usually go from eight to ten miles
per day, and when Vogue downstream is usually double this distance,
but this depends on the varying speed current, variable in each river,
and also of the rowers, whose skill and activity not all parts are
of equal rank.

Each nation has its particular way of paddling: the Itonama will sit and paddle with lots of precipitation;
the Cayuvava, also seated row slowly but forcefully, while the Baures remain standing as if more
Drive to the oars. Of all these nations the Cayuvava are more famous rowers, and try to preserve
their reputation, striving to excel in speed to all vessels foreigners who are on their way.
These natives have a habit of bathing three times a day when they go on journey, to practice,
they stop suddenly, thrown into the water, dive and return, to peel his shirt dress, then continued
walking. All Once Moxos come to bathe, teach their backs covered with scars that appear to
burns, and which are simply the result of the flogging of Holy Week. Among them manifest themselves proud
of carrying such signs on their bodies, mocking with certain irony for those who do not.

When the weather is beautiful, the heat which prevails to this noon in the narrow callegon formed
by flakes and ancient trees that adorn the banks of rivers, never come to be tempered by the
slightest breeze and passengers, the traveler then throwing less vivifying air of the past week,
want the night with impatience, but as soon as This involves land, dense vapors rising from
the river, and is a very wet morning as if it had rained all night
tough.

When it rains during the day with no storm, leaving thousands of mosquitoes forests, and taking
refuge in canoes, torture to the poor travelers, who too suffer such discomfort at night. If
time becomes extremely bad, the Indians built a hut haste cane under which the travelers to
get insured against the torrents of rain, and if this continues, They also built for spacious
cabins, so that in a few moments becomes camp in a hamlet where many days remain until the
wind subsides. The waves that promote strong winds in the large rivers are not, as we have said,
the only danger to which the traveler is nswer passing through those places. Sandy gullies derrepente
usually subside over the water, dragging down one of the giant trees that stand on the banks,
whose roots are huge behind a huge mass of land. If all this debris falling by chance on fragile
boat, make it disappear completely, but when this happens, would be sufficient to make waves
capsized the projection, which excite such collapses within waves.

Sometimes up rivers in the rainy season, the Indian venture to go through among the arms that
form the islands, where the current is less evident fast, however, these arms are often found
in their shots blocked by thick trunks that have piled up the waters, if the rowers trying to
save the way they get by small narrow where the current is very impetuous, tangle the canoe
through the branches, and is filled water at a time: just alarmed are cast into the river
course, and I swam, and Bolivia on the branches, holding the boat without sinking, until they
reach their assistance in the other canoes. It is on such occasions when the superstitious Cayuvava
demolish an ear of corn in thanksgiving to the supreme providence
for having liberated the danger.

If these journeys are painful for the Spanish, they are still much more to the poor Indians,
ESPONSE TO the weather constantly, and often forced to spend the night in floodplains, suspended
over water in their hammocks.

Countless pieces of vegetation, hidden beneath the waters, they often capsize canoes: Then
the Indians detiénense on some sandbar to put out the merchandise. Very rarely get any Indian
to perish in these trances, they all swim like if waves were his natural element. But there
are other dangers to which his life is in such esponse Voyages: cite
as a major encounter with the tigers.

When they discover about Beaches traces of this beast, immediately raised his camp, going to
seek not further the comprehensive security, and if in the middle of the night, hear their
roars, go to immediately collect all the firewood they can and large
lit bonfires, but this is not always the take cover against the fatal
accidents, especially when the expedition consists ne more than Indians.

Magdalena A manager had sent in one occasion a few Indians to go and collect the cuttings in the
woods of a tree, which provides ash eSCelente for a potash soap factory. Many days that these
Indians had entirely unarmed, were camped and cons to your job, when suddenly there was a night
among them a hungry tiger, and throwing himself on an Indian lay asleep in his hammock, I had
to devour far from there, however, afraid the tumultuous cries of the other Indians awoke to the
cries of the victim, threw to run, stranding the poor Indian head pieces and with very few
moments of life. This is like a reproach to the absurd extent that, under the pretext of avoiding
quarrels with the whites, prohibited [1] to carry weapons to men constantly nswers to the greatest
dangers in the midst of those deserts, whose empire still belongs to animals fierce. It is noteworthy
that the tiger never enviste to people whose head can not see, and not a single example of any
traveler, be well hidden under his mosquito net, there victim died of his hunger.

The banks of the Mamore, usually very quiet, come once a year to spend countless canoes that
go together Moxos to Santa-Cruz, and giving to the screams echo tumultuous and gay sailors, paid
an animation whose name might be delicious. Made I happen also to journey I found myself at
the time one of these expeditions. Will copy here the point of my diary that refers to this
passage.

"... More than forty boats were preparing to depart at once from the port of Loreto, composing
a veritable fleet. Priests and traders who were incorporated into the expedition, they wanted I
ordered me to lead the way, traveling in company, and how could practice better, since my rowers
were the ablest, of course I accepted the honor they gave me. At the end of the day we stopped
for the night on a roomy bench Sandy, not far from a forest.

Then I was taken to enjoy a promising perspective, canoes as they came slowly and successively
greeted by triumphant shouts or derision of those who speak in advance. All Indians then scattered
into the forest, and bringing back wood, some with canes that armed beds for travelers, and
symmetric key stakes thick on the ground to suspend, for separate groups the beds belonging to the
rowers in each boat: in the center of these groups went on a fire,
and the outside parle shone at intervals, and other fires where making
dinner.

"

"Our camp, which brought together over six hundred people, had the most curious aspect I could
imagine. They spoke to him almost all the languages ​​of the province, without being confused
each other different nations. All the white people had gathered in the center while here and
there, the Baures, the Itonama, the Movimas, the Cayuvava, the Canichana Moxos and forming
various groups, conversing in their respective dialects. The little beach transuto lonely before
the theater was the most animated. Each group of white beds, hanging around a bonfire, in contrast
with the nets of travelers and the row of canoes which extended majestically along the banks
[1]: sitting all on the beach after dinner in the community, raising thousands cheerful conversation,
to which the strangeness of different lenguages ​​was more originality. Each individual, away Moxos,
was already escento fears and let your tongue go free, the indiscretions of the one giving
rise to the recriminations of the other, so they were revealed in
That night all the secrets about the private conduct of employees,
and I knew most things In one hour, which in some months in the province.

"

"Finished dinner, all the Indians gathered as usual to pray in community. These religious songs
so many times I had been pleasantly surprised in the midst of those wilderness, sounded to my ear
at that time with such disagreement, I had to retire to one side, and could not be less than
the confusion of those different intonations dialects, which occurred all at once in the silence
of the night. The Indians, without covering with other clothes that their tipois, lie in their
hammocks, and spend the night ESPONSE TO THE fierce mosquito bites, and especially the heavy dew
that falls in the regions hot on the banks of rivers. Hardly bay day, rise and, after hook their
hammocks, sing in chorus and the more reflective the appeal of the morning. "

When traveling with an entourage consisting of a single nation, and that is high in the forest
the banks, these prayers of the night often have inexplicable charm. I can not spare to bring
the case to the expression recorded in my diary of the sensations
that the solemnity of such an act once printed in my mind.

"The night was certainly one of the darker, and the gloom seemed even more under the arch formed
by the thick foliage. Shone distance away in the fires of the Indians encamped, spreading clarity
uncertain about the objects around us and giving a wild magical colorful enclosure. A thing
of my seventy-eight Indians in chorus sang their hymns, which in the silence of the night,
in those places took a character that I felt so much majesty deeply moved, I had never seemed so
simple at the same time imposing: his duration was too short for my bliss, and long after
they had ceased, still looking for my ear their mystic chords. Took possession of my mind a sweet
melancholy are harmonious with the vagueness of my thoughts and especially with the respect
they inspired me virginal beauty of those places.

Very soon my fellow surrendered journey the rest, the fires were extinguished; grew dark, and
majestic silence of the jungle was scarcely interrupted by the rustling of the leaves slightly choppy
in the treetops, or by the murmur of the waters. Only I had stayed up and can not forget the
happy impressions of this evening, whose memory has been more than once to delight hereinafter
my spirit again. "

The dress worn by Indian moxeños to travel, consists only of a very long shirt sleeveless, made
from the bark of bibosi abounds, as noted, on the banks of Mamore, mainly below the Exaltation:
the bark of a species of moral, which located on the shores of all rivers of the country neighbors
Yuracares, also serves for the same. When passing the Indians for such spot, provided always
stop for shirts, echoing throughout the woods for a few moments with the ax retail and the noise
made by falling trees blows to the strongman. Preferably Elígense those newer and less knotty,
first cut a piece to recognize its quality. Once on the ground as the tree chosen, is cut off
the branches, saying then on trunk length of each sleeve by a circular incision, after having
practiced a longitudinal opening, is inserted under the bark a small stick, or smooth and sharp,
to detach from the woody portion without tearing. After this operation, shirt is a cut whose extremity
is necessary to turn to outside in order to separate the exterior, rough and hard, from the inner,
white and compact. However, still lack the preparation work, nothing expensive by the way, and
that comes from follows.

Every Indian Forest brings a piece of tree on which it stands, on the bank of the river, the crust
should be prepared; and provided with a square hammer, grooved transversely, beats on it strongly,
with one hand as soon as soon with the other to detach from each other all the fiber after
having maceado on both sides, stretched, followed by washing in the river, then back to macearla
still for a few moments, and finally extends like a piece of canvas, no more missing, so the shirt
can fill your office, but sew up the sides and make an opening to pass the head.

There in the country of a plant called Itiro Yuracares, which are served to Moxos a purple dye eSCelente
these shirts. When the crusts are already prepared, the bend in a particular way to soak in
that after dyeing, resulting from disposition of the folds, boxes near perfectly equal. All sailors
INDIGENOUS that flow from that country carry this purple shirt, and from afar would think seeing
them is a choir bishops.

If these raids come to find two boats of the same nation, the Indians divided each other, with
a detachment fraternal, everything they have: truth is that they all considered as members
of one family when they came from the same nation.

The unfortunate Indians enjoy in Moxos a lot less freedom than in Chiquitos, having no one day you
can have at his own discretion, since the days of rest on Sundays and other holiday, are entirely
devoted to religious practices. The remaining year are assumed to be occupied for the State, if not
actually make it work tirelessly for the benefit of employees, keeping them, in work requirements,
still less consideration to the women, who resent it, from being
sterilized early.

Never has been greater slavery and despotism under a Liberal government. It should be noted that
before 1832 the chiefs of the republic completely ignored what happened in the provinces away
from the center, considered in some ways as private possessions of employees to whose interests
the little picture much zeal manifested by the supreme rulers.

Every fortnight is distributed in a number of cotton seeds, giving
them each a flake india twenty ounces to around fifteen days should
this file yarn.

Delivery will be made as follows. Placed the chief in front of the school with some scales to
check if the ball of thread, which deposes every entering India has the required weight of four
ounces.

As they pass under the Indian instálanse runners to wind thread: completed this operation, the
re-call list to verify again the weight and also refinement, giving it lashes at the present
too thick. Get after each india, in exchange for his ball of string, a piece of soap produced
in the same mission. In Chiquitos and not punished to the women from the time he administered
the province governor Don Marcelino de la Peña. In Moxos employee greed perpetuated and even
increased Draconian punishment to the natives, and the slightest fault or by the mere whim an
administrator, a priest or a chieftain, when not tied to a pole make them lie belly to flog. There
are examples of Indians who have been punished for having distracted and non welcomed the chief.

As Moxos cattle abound in every fifteen days, in the day Saturday,
is a distribution meat.

Are killed regularly from fifteen to twenty animals, according to the population of missions.
To proceed to this distribution, established by the Jesuits, lead herders slaughtered on the number
of animals is necessary, and after they are slaughtered, make as many servings are few families,
then placing in rows on piebles lying on the ground, all these parts. The chief one hand and
the other given Alferes the voice to the interpreters to call in sections, first to all married women,
then widows, single women and then to the children who came to take their ration from by two rows
of prosecutors armed with a whip to keep the order, which is strictly observed.

Great fun on these occasions to see the familiarity of gallinasos, these parasites the civilized
and savage man, who come with incredible courage as if calling also his part, mingling with the
Indians and often quarreling with them pocesion a piece of meat. One of these birds, which
was the band's boldest, most known for some signals, particularly that lame, always attended distributions
Concepcion. Scarcely appeared in the air, with shouts of joy saludábanlo all Indians for whom it
was already an object of fun, so it was never made the slightest
damage.

This Welcome guest had not failed once in the space of ten consecutive years and was already so
spoiled that carried the meat to the baskets of the Indians.

The day they celebrate the feast of the mission, they doubled the Indians regular rations: Administrators
have the privilege of having meanwhile fresh meat every two days. All this consumption met
the extraordinary that provision is made for canoes, when People traveling to a category, each
mission has a total of just more or less than five hundred to nine hundred head per year.

Baures in the mission and that of Carmen, a tradition still seen as entirely forgotten in the
other missions.

When it any traveler of distinction, all indigenous will visit the day after Sunday Mass, carrying
each a present, which is cocoa, vanilla, monkey fur, ducks, chickens, or anything else you can call
the attention of the stranger, who in turn must correspond with other gifts, but if fame bulking
their donations, the whole town was gathered together at their doors, and I must rely a prosecutor
to put an end to such an assault in nonsense.

The women use the tipoi [1] without any adornment, but a very fine fabric, some of them pintorreado
usually wear black.
 Once more a radiant figure
glided noiselessly from the cabinet, which was darkly outlined in the corner of the room, and
stood before him. Once more her eyes burned on his, until, forgetting all but her beauty, he
put forth his arms to clasp her. A startled exclamation from Alta banished the vision, and
he perceived that he was smiling upon the empty air.

He went away from the house ecstatically happy. He believed that he had really seen her. He
had no doubt that, aided by the mediumship of love, she had actually appeared to him a second
time in a form only a little less material than the night before.

Of this experience he did not tell Miss Ludington. This interview, which Ida had granted to
him alone, he kept as a precious secret.

The next day, as he had promised, Paul called at Mrs. Legrand's and saw Dr. Hull. That gentleman
was unable to promise him anything definite about a séance, on account of Mrs. Legrand's continued
illness.

"Is she seriously sick?" asked Paul, with a new terror.

"I think not," said Dr. Hull; "but her trouble is of the heart, the result of the nervous crises
which a trance medium is necessarily subject to, and a disease of the heart may at any time
take an unexpected turn."

"Has she the best advice?" asked Paul. "Excuse me; but if she has not, and if her pecuniary
means do not enable her to afford it, I beg you will let me secure it for her."

Dr. Hull thanked him, but said that he was a physician himself, and that, on account of his
acquaintance with her constitutional peculiarities, Mrs. Legrand considered him, and he considered
himself, better able to treat her than any strange physician. "You seem to be very much interested
in her case," added the doctor, with a slight intonation of surprise.

"Can you wonder?" replied Paul. "Is she not door-keeper between this world and the world of
spirits where my love is? Don't think me brutal if I confess to you that what I think of most
is that her death might close that door."

"I do not think you brutal," replied Dr. Hull; "what you feel is very natural."

"Is it not strange--is it not hard to bear," cried Paul, giving way to his feelings, "that
the key of the gate between the world of spirits and of men should be intrusted to a weak and
sickly woman?"

"It is hard to bear, no doubt," replied Dr. Hull; "but it is not strange. It is in accordance
with the laws by which this world has always been conducted. From the beginning has not the
power of calling spirits out of the unknown into this earth life been intrusted to weak and
sickly women? What the world loosely calls spiritualism is no isolated phenomenon or set of
phenomena. The universe is spiritual. Much as we claim for our mediums, the mediumship of motherhood
is far more marvellous. Our mediums can enable spirits already alive, and able by their own
wills to cooperate, to pass before our eyes for a moment. To hold them longer in our view exceeds
their power. But these other women, these mothers, call souls out of nothingness, and clothe
them with bodies, so that they speak, walk, work, love, and hate, some forty, some fifty, some
seventy years." 

With the multitude of these headlines, though not safe, that was sent to form a board of ship
captains and colonels who existed in Montevideo, to recognize, indicate their opinion on the
utility or futility that caused the prosecution to the Crown establishments. All unanimous, it is
said, were for the latter: such proofs I was the cause.

With these documents and decisions, without waiting for other result, that experience and findings could be
described as honest or to be unfounded, they sought to impress the real spirit of the King
and his wise minister, whose result was the royal order of 1. st August last year next, sending
establishments leave San Julian and San Jose, and that only subsist the Black River, reduced to the
sad skeleton that expresses the Viceroy Lord could stay.

On their way to Spain, these justifications, arrived in the Bay of San Julian to the Montevideo
Plaza Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma, and presented an information, that his motion was the
captain of infantry D. Felix Iriarte, composed of residents of that colony, in that together
they declare, in reference to what is experienced in the fruits their
fields, that those lands were productive to maintain the population.

The Super-intendant of the Black River, with the wheat crop this year, which amounted to 1269 bushels
and three pages, credited the population could survive with its fruits, and as a result recognition
of that river, which launched the second pilot of the royal fleet, D. Basil Villarino, going up
near Valdivia, proportions of the place which he walked, hopes that promised the rivers that were
to recognize, and soon discovered that made lieutenant of infantry D. José de Salazar, opening
the way by land from the port San Jose to the river, in office from October 13 of that year, presented
to the Viceroy Lord important of the two establishments, founded the reasons and motives in
the latter result, which it rejected the objections of the reports and opinions, and at the
same time manifesting profits that could be drawn from them. But like everything came late,
not enough to contain the unfortunate fate suffered, that, though not as unhappy as those
of Sarmiento in Strait of Magellan, had almost as useless expenses, work loss and deaths that
cost to carry the state in which they were at the time of abandonment; San Julian as the rooms had
already repaired some comfort in inclement of time, which caused scurvy cut coat of many cold
of that climate. Began producing their land, to keep off, the Indians were going every day taming and
fans of ours, so with good reason could be expected to reduce within a few years of these idolaters
the bosom of our Holy Faith, and by this means that King had the new populations of these natural,
serving for one example of their neighbors to such a holy purpose.
 And who can say--for very odd, sometimes, are the inarticulate processes
of the mind--that there was not at the bottom of his thoughts something of the universal lover's
willingness to let his mistress see him at his best?

They found the front parlour occupied as before by Mrs. Legrand and Dr. Hull, when Alta showed
them in. The medium was, as previously, the picture of ill-health, and if she did not look
noticeably worse than before her sickness, it was merely because she had looked as badly as
possible then. In response to inquiries about her health she admitted that she did not really
feel equal to resuming her séances quite so soon, and but for disliking to disappoint them
would have postponed this evening's appointment. Dr. Hull had, indeed, urged her to do so.

"You must not think of giving a séance if there is any risk of injury to your health," said
Miss Ludington, though not without being sensible of a pang of disappointment. "We could not
think of letting you do that, could we, Paul?"

Paul's reply to this humane suggestion was not so prompt as it should have been. In his heart
he felt at that moment that he was as bad as a murderer. He knew that he was willing this woman
should risk not only her health, but even her life, rather than that he should fail to see
Ida. He was striving to repress this feeling, so far at least as to say that he would not insist
upon going on with the séance, when Mrs. Legrand, with a glance through her half-shut eyelids,
intimating that she perfectly understood his thoughts, said, in a tone which put an end to
the discussion, "Excuse me, but I shall certainly give the séance. I am much obliged for your
interest in me; but I am rather notional about keeping my promises, and it is a peculiarity
in which my friends have to indulge in. I daresay I shall be none the worse for the exertion."

"Doctor," she added, "will you allow our friends to inspect the cabinet?"

"That is quite needless," said Paul.

"Our friends are often willing to waive an inspection," replied Dr. Hull. "We are grateful
for the confidence shown, but, in justice to ourselves, as well as for their own more absolute
assurance, we always insist upon it. Otherwise, suspicions of fraud not entertained, perhaps,
at the time, might afterwards occur to the mind, or be suggested by others, to which they would
have no conclusive answer."

Upon this Miss Ludington and Paul permitted themselves to be conducted upon the same tour of
inspection that they had made the former evening. They found everything precisely as it had
been on that occasion. There was no possibility of concealing any person in the cabinet or
the back parlour, and no apparent or conceivable means by which any person could reach those
apartments, except through the front parlour.

On their return to the latter apartment the proceedings followed the order observed at the
previous séance. Mrs. Legrand rose from her chair and walked feebly through the back parlour
into the cabinet. Dr. Hull then locked and braced a chair against the door opening into the
hall, giving the key to Paul. Then, having arranged the three chairs as before, across the
double door between the parlours, he seated Miss Ludington and Paul, and, having turned the
gas down, took the third chair.

All being ready, Alta, who was at the piano, struck the opening chords of the same soft, low
music that she had played at the previous séance.

It seemed to Miss Ludington that she played much longer than before, and she began to think
that either there was to be some failure in the séance, or that something had happened to Mrs.
Legrand.

Perhaps she was dead. This horrible thought, added to the strain of expectancy, affected her
nerves so that in another moment she must have screamed out, when, as before, she felt a faint,
cool air fan her forehead, and a few seconds later Ida appeared at the door of the cabinet
and glided into the room.

She was dressed as at her former appearance, in white, with her shoulders bare, and the wealth
of her golden hair falling to her waist behind.

From the moment that she emerged from the shadows of the cabinet Paul's eyes were glued to
her face with an intensity quite beyond any ordinary terms of description.

Fancy having not over a minute in which to photograph upon the mind a form the recollection
of which is to furnish the consolation of a lifetime. The difficulties of securing this second
séance, and the doubt that involved the obtaining of another, had deeply impressed him. He
might never again see Ida on earth, and upon the fidelity with which his memory retained every
feature of her face, every line of her figure, his thoughts by day, and his dreams by night,
might have to depend for their texture until he should meet her in another world.

The lingering looks that are the lover's luxury were not for these fleeting seconds. His gaze
burned upon her face and played around her form like lightning. He grudged the instantaneous
muscles of the eye the time they took to make the circuit of her figure.

But when, as on that other night, she came close up to him and smiled upon him, time and circumstance
were instantly forgotten, and he fell into a state of enchantment in which will and thought
were inert.

He was aroused from it by an extraordinary change that came over her. She started and shivered
slightly in every limb. The recognition faded out of her eyes and gave place to a blank bewilderment.

Then came a turning of her head from side to side, while, with dilated eyes, she explored the
dim recesses of the room with the startled expression of an awakened sleep-walker. She half
turned toward the cabinet and made an undecided movement in that direction, and then, as if
the invisible cord that drew her thither had broken, she wavered, stopped, and seemed to drift
toward the opposite corner of the room.

At that moment there was a gasp from the cabinet.

Dr. Hull leaped to his feet and sprang toward it, at the same time, by a turn of the stopcock
by his side, setting the gas in both rooms at full blaze.

Alta, with a loud scream, rushed after him, and Miss Ludington and Paul followed them.

The pupils of their eyes had been dilated to the utmost in order to follow the movements of
the apparition in the nearly complete darkness, and the first effect of the sudden blaze of
gaslight was to dazzle them so completely that they had actually to grope their way to the cabinet.

The scene in the little apartment of the medium was a heartrending one.

Mrs. Legrand's body and lower limbs lay on the sofa, which was the only article of furniture,
and Dr. Hull was in the act of lifting her head from the floor to which it had fallen. Her
eyes were half open, and the black rings around them showed with ghastly plainness against
the awful pallor which the rest of her face had taken on. One hand was clenched. The other
was clutching her bodice, as if in the act of tearing it open. A little foam flecked the blue lips.

Alta threw herself upon her mother's body, sobbing, "Oh, mamma, wake up! do! do!"

"Is she dead?" asked Miss Ludington, in horrified accents.

"I don't know; I fear so. I warned her; I told her it would come. But she would do it," cried
the doctor incoherently, as he tried to feel her pulse with one hand while he tore at the fastenings
of her dress with the other. He set Paul at work chafing the hands of the unconscious woman,
while Miss Ludington sprinkled her face and chest with ice-water from a small pitcher that
stood in a corner of the cabinet, and the doctor himself endeavoured in vain to force some
of the contents of a vial through her clenched teeth. "It is of no use," he said, finally;
"she is past help--she is dead!"

At this Miss Ludington and Paul stood aside, and Alta, throwing herself upon her mother's form,
burst into an agony of tears. "She was all I had," she sobbed.

"Had Mrs. Legrand friends?" asked Miss Ludington, conscience-stricken with the thought that
she had indirectly been in part responsible for this terrible event.

"She had friends who will look after Alta," said Dr. Hull.

Their assistance being no longer needed, Miss Ludington and Paul turned from the sad scene
and stepped forth from the cabinet into the back parlour. 

Since the establishment of Black River to the lagoon-lauquen Huechum land, its distance not
even reach 160 leagues to the top of Diamond to open way too comfortable carts along the same
river, which washes the largest livestock rescue and relief. A site can be conceptualized 120
leagues: from him at this gap 40, and from this to Valdivia 20, so that the whole distance being
180 miles, the 120 is very smooth turnpike road and comfortable, the 40 with time maybe you
will in the same provisions, applicable to soften some missteps, and the remaining 20 is the
only bad thing is that travel. But this, as explained by Indians, not those aviaries and cliffs
to the Mendoza Chile. Compare, then, the increase of this from Buenos Aires, which went from
500 leagues, painful and risky for the crossing of the pampas, of water scarcity and Indians,
with short soft and can be opened by the Black River, and the safety of these infidels, taken its
main avenues and places, that is another issue that matters most to the prosperity Buenos Aires,
as I will show in place, expressed through the populations.

I've talked to Promote the concept to what I discovered in the Black River to the Plaza de Valdivia;
regardless of the recognition of Diamond Rio, or Sanquel, which made observation Villarino
the pilot, at the confluence of this river with the Black, 38 degrees 44 minutes and other combinations
and news, there is reason to hope, has with the Tunuyan, which passes by the city of Mendoza,
and to be certain they discover equal proportions.

We arrived as the most important point, and that happiness lies across the province, this is to repair
the destruction caused by livestock in the vast Indian campaigns and borders Buenos Aires, in book to
those who disbelieve so many deaths, robberies and captivity, to take advantage the vast fields
that mediate this capital Black River, where you can expand and encouraged raising cattle,
which must be one of the branches has to sustain this facility and support of others. The issues
are very serious, but their happiness depends on a same cause, which
is to restrain the Indians.

News acquired by the recognition of the river that made Villarino, we found reports had been many
Indians, having no other way those of the nation Tehuelche Villiches, Puelches, and other inhabitants
of the Huechuhuehuem nations, near Valdivia é in the mountains, the site called the Choelechel,
to travel to Colorado mountains Window, Tandil, Volcano, Cashuatí, and frontiers of Buenos Aires,
for lack of watering the other spot, and be impassable terrain. The safety of these particular news
made me believe it spread to all nations of Indians, that cause us much harm, and taking that
step were sugetos.

This concept encouraged me to repeat the request to Mr. Viceroy to occupy and to ensure.

Later an Indian tried very cunning, and practices of those sites Vastis called José Yati, who
disabused me, informing me that the step was respectively Choelechel Indian nations that I mentioned,
but not all, as I had two paths where they came, and penetrated: one fell to the Salinas, where salt
has provided Buenos Aires with the carts, and is gone from the Indians Peguenches and Aucases,
whose leader named Guchulap, and the other farther north and not
far from the city of Córdoba, who attend those Ranqueles nation.

The reason for using different ways these nations, is the enmity that
have a with others, and be more immediate to their lands to become
as common in traffic, had to go through those of its neighbors.

The other two roads is a matter that deserves more attention in the day, because we have no knowledge
physicist of them, which does not occur with that of Choelechel:
just talked on the news reports and Indians, and you need a formal
discovery to pull these lines Parages for their safety.

Even without the news of these important reasons, in office from July 31, 1781, I proposed to Viceroy
Lord how useful it was to be gaining knowledge of the Indian nations inhabiting fields of Buenos
Aires, its shelters and retreats, where he began to secure, when they saw persecuted, or attacked
us, to which he had intended to try to the peons, Antonio Godoy and Juan Jose Gonzales, with
the pretext to go to their tents to buy cattle, lead them brandy, beads, and grass, with whose gifts
were being familiar with some, and taking other news, the only way he could overcome these difficulties.
Record showed equal he said His Excellency. Lord would be useful to practice from the borders of
Buenos Aires and his guards sugetos allocating adapted to the case,
with whose knowledge was easy with two expeditions come out of this
capital and Black River contain and restrain.

This proposal was welcomed, and Godoy and Gonzales sent with letters to habiéndolos SE, and this
being the first who ventured to walk the way through so many Indians, and given knowledge
to the journey made by the pilot D. Paul Sisur by land to the establishment,
both had the unfortunate end to stop at a prison, which prison he
delivered his own innocence.

Notwithstanding the contempt with which it was my proposal, the continued abuse and theft Indians
forced the Viceroy Lord to identify shipments that have come from Cordoba, Mendoza and the
capital, but not the Black River, which is the most immediate camp
site to them.

The cause I can not understand me much room but the opposition of the establishment. God will not
spoil those costs, have left open that gate.

These expeditions were the best principles to discover and recognize the two aforementioned steps and
roads, for those of Mendoza and Córdoba be crossed, and share them with their instructions
and news commanders, with the same spending levels rose to those
sites, accompanying optional sugetos sincerity and truth, and not
full of prejudice Queen of the establishments that: whether you have
admitted, they may serve as much news.

Taken from a true understanding of these steps and pathways, could fortify and repair, extending
to them the border guards, because they cut these avenues, and the Choelechel, the other campaigns
were free, and to Buenos Aires, Rio and Black populations they shook hands on the ground for communication,
for the breeding and promotion of livestock, and the extension of
their populations.

See then that were so big advantages to the province, and even to the entire kingdom and safety
recognition of these steps.

The huge Indian they fall to provide themselves with horses and cattle, is a lobster, pest
or its destruction, that had it not been a very long and very fertile fields, I would not breed.
The end does not hurry, give an idea of ​​his wealth safe and propagation; ceasing this cause will
be most advantageous for increased trade corambre that, as a result of earth, deserves attention
for being the first permanent and non-poor. The populations of Buenos Aires fields would go take
another increase and extension, particularly if they were met them to neighbors, who live on farms
scattered uninhabited, as is mandated by repeated royal decrees: for this concealment is perjudicialísimo
the spiritual good of those souls, and real legislation, for lack
of instruction in our holy Christian dogmas; rarely frequent the sacraments
of Penance and Eucharist, and have almost no, recognize or obey and
whom to fear: so that differ little from the savage Indians.

This method of government is the destruction of themselves, because the lot extension, which
mediates one farm to another, leaves room for the Indians to steal cattle, engage and kill
their inhabitants, whose misfortunes contribute to a greater part
of which often go to these infidels, communicating news and safe routes
to their invasions, so any spoil.

I heard on the Black River by the Indians, and that made voyages both expressed Godoy and Gonzales
pawns in this evil in our time have been repeated instances I made the Viceroy Lord to punish
them with rigor egemplar is learned have committed such horrific crime, and realized together
to know one of these ungodly who led them: that was so extreme cruelty,
which were not exempt from it their own parents, whom he killed in
one of the entries made with the Indians.

Populations reduced to the neighbors of these farms will have different
instructions and government and through standards which are scored,
there sugetos knowledge of the missing at people, and may be known
for another facility of his whereabouts.

I can not ignore, for a lot of knowledge acquired in the five years I've been trying these savages
in the Black River, how useful is the method we observe the French in their Indies with such
barbarians, and with what reason we are recommended by Lord Ward in its draft economic. Without me the
news milder these rules, I followed, and is notorious good harmony that I have kept with them,
and how useful it has been the promotion of the establishment: and can not be said to be the
best to are those that these fields, because there have busy on here
hurt us.

All I have maintained a true friendship and good faith except for some stolen horses, that even among
ourselves we are not free.

This experience demonstrates the importance of putting in the wards, or people who are established
sugetos of kindness, talent and opinion to deal with the Indians and that in exchange for beads
and other effects that do not harm us, they enter with them their
own fruit trade; such as rabbit fur, skunk, guanaco, and guaracha,
reins, dusters, ponchos and other effect that abound in these means
we reconcile its own merits and acquiring their friendship as they
do and achieve the French.

I have shown the method and hopes of the many utilities that can make the establishment Black
River, the vast and important of them shows the creation or formation of a new kingdom. All
acrescentan trade, increase, or form a Marine Corps commercial, which is the largest nerve in
the happiness of a monarchy, and thus attract increasing populations. This can not be undertaken
in the present time, little by little it is necessary go ahead, and shaking hands with each other,
in proportion to their prosperity and benefits. A cautious, wise and zealous government, inflamed
with the spirit of patriotism, without intermission other enthusiasms, under a real protection,
which we in the day, taking all the growth and happiness of the vast
domains governing will be the main bases and columns which support
and sustain the successful outcome of these prove useful.

                         

PART THREE.

The short early establishment of the Black River, and his stubborn opposition, because of so
much waste and costs, [C] you have so much in the air, that the minor storm, everything he
gives ground.

For their preservation and increase, it takes much skill and pulse, because real estate is not
in state spending and the multitude of reports and papers submitted to the Court, have warmed
to that first fervor that was promoted by deleting in its real spirit foundations and causes,
and if not now seeks to hold, all is lost.

These reflections made me, or rather, forced to give the report of February 16 This year, by order
of 14 of the Viceroy Lord asked me D. Juan Jose de Vertiz, to fix
the setting in the manner commanded by His Majesty, the royal order
of 1. º August.

The blind obedience and the deplorable state of these issues gave me no other measure, to express the
manner and form of their reduction, leaving room for so short that promoted root, and produjese
the high expectations I have expressed previously, as having said I do that in that state could
not survive, was preparing his whole hurricane debris.

They reformed to establish the single number of 12 families propose the means of its conservation
and subsistence, and open field with the promotion of whaling, and supply of salt for to hold
and flourish without spending real estate, and these are the only means have to sustain and
encourage, and should deserve all the attention of this Government.

While the former is of more importance than the second, this is soon
and easily, because spending in the province does not cease, and beseeching
order of His Majesty, to not allow in Spain loading and driving of
this kind to the ports of Rio de la Plata, and is prohibited where
the carts go to Salinas as has hitherto been practiced, it is this
advantage to the benefit of that population, and its neighbors engaged
in the work of its stocks and the release of its fruits, achieve profitable
use of the industry and trade; with the whaling established in the
port of San Jose will be more important.

If the state who are Indians and our expeditions in scope, forces that to strengthen that port
with more troops, is another building and utility of the neighbors because the money your
loan is as much to his benefit, they were seeking to make successful those lands Working with
industry and its work, taking different approach than they have been, and because its natural
indolence and laziness, and now by the seductions with which discouraged and warm so that they
apply to agriculture, assuring them that soon they were to out of that fate, and move them to the
fields amenísimos Montevideo, which abound in both livestock, without bothering to get rich quickly
we could bring, were those who by all means sought to make useless the population. And these influences
are encouraged to devote their cries Mr. Vertiz, considering the barrenness of the land, the dangers
to which they were exposed Indians, and the rigor of the Super-intendant, because his zeal,
efficiency and fatigue would not let sleep on their laziness leisure,
and forced them to work in agriculture, which media productions have
checked off their reports.

The conclusion of the works of the fort is another medium that has to contribute for the benefit of
residents, because the money that cause these expenses, such as that provided leads the troops
in their benefit, all coadyuba to the same end, but we need active and industrious people;
and this is one of the most essential points to keep in mind the
superior government, because or little or nothing will work and give
them out to their fruits, if given to men not the advantage, before
they despise themselves.

The expenditure should be reformed is the cause to the exchequer for the launches establishments
to King's account, because this is the highest consideration, and only is useful to their employers
or masters. Through trade with salt and fishery Whale provides supply mode setting as caresca and
needs, and facilitate the transport of detachments of workers and troops to move out: for the
former contributes its own interest, because these genres are sold on the premises, and their
utilities take the cost of transportation of salt, and to realize they will pay the wages of
and driving out to the dock to the neighbors. For the second may be stipulated by regalia of
these licenses, and when not, unless you have cost him the King to pay the freight when Offer,
to keep a boat, you have to import the whole of each year six thousand
dollars, and much freight will not be pushed up to five hundred.

If you have a strengthening effect on the Rio Black troops, perhaps opportunity will be provided
containing the Indians, and free from fears the people, can be extended in the argricultura egercicio,
and raising cattle, they either have to be the most solid foundation on which rests, and secure
the population, attracting more neighbors, which themselves form bodies for resist, and chastened
at all times. The land, in the proportion provided by the river, using art, at little cost
can benefit from irrigation, as I have shown Viceroy Lord in office March 26 next year earlier,
number 26, and even without means that there suggest, if neighbors
are applied, with wells that horses can meuvan advance much, mostly
when there is no charge, and very little about the cost these animals.

All of which seems to have persuaded the near misses and worries of our Catholic monarchs to
project and promote these establishments have been effects of a deep knowledge and study on religion
and politics that these two bases of any government illustrated Christian, were the foundation
of the expeditions of Sarmiento. The two brothers of Nodal, the captain of Olivares, the Padres
Cardiel, Quiroga and Strobl, the capital of frigate D. Francisco Pando, that of D. Perlier
Sunday, and lately they have left Montevideo and Buenos Aires, to the commissions have been entrusted
to the two brothers, who, notwithstanding of all the rivals that want to contradict these establishments
always be useful, by the trade promotion provided in whaling, in the conduct of salt to Buenas
Aires, and output of meat of cattle that he raises large campaigns; to facilitate smoother port
for navigation and commerce to the South Sea, to close and defend the door to our enemies, ensuring
the interior of the kingdom, for progress the extension of their populations, because they are
the best trench to contain the wild Indians, who after the manner of a raging torrent flooded the
fields every day, taking behind him innumerable cattle, horses and cattle, sad ravage the neighboring
rooms border to the capital, making the roads unsafe, and victim of his wrath to many unfortunate
people, who die inhumanely each day to his hands, horribly and frightening. And finally be
achieved most of the profits, which consists of men and Christian men to this great number of
savages. Utilities that can be reconciled without the extravagance of the royal treasury and are
as I set out to describe the three parts of this report, in which if there was any less worthy
expression should be attributed to zeal with which I look at these establishments, it has
never been my intention to censure my words to anyone. Sugeto all the above correction to
the VE; flattered that taking the proper purpose for which they are issued, has to conceal
any defects found. Yes, Lord Exmo., How can I doubt that in the spirit VE, have benign host
some thoughts directed to the prosperity of the state and the increased religion? VE, weighing
all things in the balance of knowledge, achieves better than me, what matter is proposed to
employ all the activity of their zeal towards the royal service. She can make a glorious time
in the happy days of the VE command, who as always will do its best .-- Buenos Aires, 1. First
of May, 1784.

                    Francisco de Viedma.

       

        

                               * * * * *

CONTENTS OF WORK CONTAINED IN THE FIRST VOLUME.

I.

Argentina History of discovery and conquest population of the provinces of the River Silver,
Rui Diaz de Guzman.

                              

Preliminary Discourse editor of that work.

Times of some major events, according to the points the author of
the Historia Argentina.

                             

Table of degrees of latitude in some cities and Parag, as are certain in the course of that history.

II.

D.
journey Luis de la Cruz from the fort of whales to the city of Buenos
Aires.

                              

Editor's introductory speech of the journey.

                               

Appraisal of what can import a path from the strong Antuco to Buenos
Aires.

Distance tables relating to the voyage.

III.

Description of the nature of the land, and customs of the Peguenches,
by D. Louis Cross.

IV.

                              

Description of Patagonia, by Father Thomas Falkner.

Preliminary Discourse editor of that work.

                             

V.

Paths and journeys to the Enchanted City, or of the Caesars.

                            

Editor's introductory speech on the following documents.

---- Derrotero by Tandil and the Volcano, by Rojas.

---- Letter
from Father Cardiel on the discovery of the Caesars.

---- Letter
from Father Lozano on the Caesars.

---- Derrotero from Buenos Aires
to the Caesars, by Falkner.

Related news ---- acquired on the Caesars,
by Pinuer.

---- Letter to the Viceroy of Peru on the Caesars, for
Jauregui.

---- New Discovery prepared by the Governor of Valdivia.

----
Statement on the city of the Caesars, by Villagra.

---- Report and
opinion of the Attorney Chile, on the Caesars.

VI.

Diary of a journey
to the Costa Magellan from Buenos Aires to the Strait, formed on observations
of the PP. Cardiel and Quiroga, by Father Pedro Lozano.

Editor's
Note.

VII.

Translational representation on the borders of Buenos
Aires to Rio Black and Colorado by Undiano and Gastelu.

Itinerary
of a journey from Buenos Aires to the city of Talca, by Hill and Zamudio.

Editor's
Note.

VIII.

Report on the obstacles encountered, and the benefits
they promise establishments Patagonian coast, from Viedma.

Editor's
introductory speech. For each of these
faces, with their so various expressions, represented a person possessing a peculiar identity
and certain incommunicable qualities--a person a little different from any one of those who
came before or after her, and from any other person who ever lived on earth.

As now the grey head and the golden head bent together over one picture after another, Miss
Ludington related all she could remember of the history and personal peculiarities of the original.

"There is, really, not much to say about them," she said. "They lived very quiet, uneventful
lives, and to anybody but us would, doubtless, seem entirely uninteresting persons. All wore
black dresses, and had sad faces, and all found in their thoughts of you the source at once
of their only consolation and their keenest sorrow. For they fully believed--think of it!--fully
and unquestionably believed that you were dead; more hopelessly dead than if you were in your
grave, dead, with no possibility of resurrection."

"This is the one," she said, presently, as she took up the picture of a woman of thirty-five,
"who had the fortune left to her, which has come down to me. I want you to like her. Next to
you I think more of her than I do of any of the rest. It was she who cut loose from the old
life at Hilton which had become so sour and sad, and built this new Hilton here, where life
has been so much calmer, and, on the whole, happier, than it had got to be at home. This neglect, or better
say contempt, lasted until Viedma was installed in office of Super-intendant of Patagonian establishments.
Since then everything was life and activity, and even had the pain of seeing their efforts
wasted, why not give up hope of enforcing their experience to receive their evidence.

Among the means it proposes, and that we felt were appropriate and practicable, there is one call
the attention of the Government, because it can help to increase resources for the treasury. Viedma
instills in which imitates the egemplo of the Crown of Portugal, which granted licenses no
temporary to established companies, to engage in whaling and wolves on the island Santa Catalina.
The product of this line should be of some importance, if calculated extension with our shores,
and the prodigious abundance of whales.

Also weighs the utility of occupying the island of Choelechel, and to this purpose can not dispense
to transcribe a piece of her memory, in order to admire his foresight. "Taking Choelechel site,
and ensure the passage to the Indians of those nations (Peguenches and Araucanian) are numerous:
we take these enemies to the fields and borders Buenos Aires, and we are preparing to enter the country
and other major projects that can attract Black River by the part of Valdivia. "These wise thoughts
were neglected, and only After half a century, the Lord General ROSAS
has had the glory of realizing them.

Promoted to the government of important provinces of Cochabamba and
Santa Cruz de la Sierra, He wrote that this was succeeded by the superintendent
of his brother D. Patagonia Antonio, it imitated the lively interest
with which it watched the prosperity of those establishments.

Viedma continued to operate his new apartment, and died in Cochabamba
in 1809, leaving their goods to a hospice house for the education
of poor children, and founded another orphan.

These were his services to the Americans turn to venerate his memory.

The original of this memory is preserved in the private archive of
Dr. and Canon D. Lord Saturnine Segurola, who has been generous enough
to cross it for publication.

                                   

        

Buenos Aires, January 30, 1836.

PEDRO DE ANGELIS.

MEMORY Directed by Mr. Marquez de Loreto, & c.

EXCELLENCY. SIR: -

The great love with which I looked Patagonian establishments through the knowledge that would
taking the advantages that the State could produce, I misted every day more and more to sustain
and encourage it: but neither my constant efforts, or the repeated representations to to see the
relevance of the findings and experiences in the production of their land, were able to counteract
the spirit of opposition pursued them, and finally triumphed this,
leaving them reduced to the extent that today it looks.

However, I hope to be the root arrives to promote how much we have lost in their abandonment,
and to give a true light and knowledge of its great advantages through the garments that adorn
high Excellency, able to restore only a few establishments that can serve as invincible wall
the enemies of the Crown, from security to the capital, to promote his trade, and what is more,
the means to propagate our holy religion, to extend the benefits of redemption to a prodigious
crowd of idolaters, that experience has made me know they are docile, without foolhardiness
and who can promise a rich harvest to the evangelical workers.

But my confidence encouraged to see that after I had the honor of integers to well above VE
the occurrences of these populations, their proportions and utilities, he deserved welcome ear,
we found very addicted and willing to learn all that radically, and
as a subject so vast that he can not rely on verbal reports, and withheld
the news for a perfect knowledge, VE sent me to do it in writing,
for the sake of so superior provision, in relief of my love of the
King's service, and common good of these provinces, I venture, with
the confidence that gives the truth and the good cause, to propose
to your Excellency, that efforts at all times that our Court has been
set in the aforementioned populations coast were born from the illustration
that had the advantages that would bring the state and to Religion,
without having to move from concept, because there is no success corresponded
to how happy the project.

That notwithstanding that the emulation has always been regarded, will be useful, as it is in the
day the promoting livelihood and has been in the Black River, by the prosperity that attracts
and will see, also proposing ways and means to promote it without
squandering the treasury.

                         Three parts make up the plan of this report.

I hope than I can perform to my desires, and as worthy of the importance of the matter!

PART ONE.

Since achieving his dominions Spain to join the vast, fertile and rich kingdom of Peru has always
been the object of the untiring zeal of Kings and Ministers, preserve inviolate his faithful
subjects, and improve the disposition of souls idolaters, to attract our sacred religion. The
achievement of these important and beneficial ideas, with orders and permission of Government,
there have been several expeditions to discover the islands, coasts and ports South Sea and southern
lands. Such were those of Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa in the year 1579, from the city or port of
Lima, who made the voyage by sea to the south of North, discovering the islands of the archipelago
Chono, the Strait of Magellan where he crossed, with the ports, bays, inlets, shoals, reefs
and how circumstances offer: for whose plans, relationships, daily news and safe passing the
Strait English privateer, called Francis Drake, the second was determined that rushed in Spain
the year 1580, twenty-three bagels in command of Diego Flores de Valdes, with destination transporting
troops to the kingdom of Chile, for relief of war that was in him, and let in the Strait of
Magellan people going to settle under the direction and control of Sarmiento, which sailed the
following year 1581, the port of San Lucar. And having suffered many losses, delays and arrivals,
by large storms and other setbacks, the end from the river Janeyro Commander resolved with the consent
of the other officers, Diego the Rivera with two ships and three frigates come out for the
Straits with people, food and articles intended to settle. That effect was executed well, and
he went into that place about half a league, 280 people lay on the earth, not wanting to move
forward with loss one of these craft, which could only save the artillery and supplies. All This left
the charge of Sarmiento, and a small bagel, only help to big business;
retiring with the other ships, without having taken another providence
for the promotion and sustenance of those nations.

With so small a population Sarmiento forces formed in the same landing site, and San Felipe another
call at a port hondable little more in the interior of the Strait, the they could not survive
the abandonment with which people looked at that miserable, perishing every one, a soldier named
exepcion Tome Hernandez, a native of Badajoz, which was saved in an English vessel passing
through the Strait to the South Sea. The expedition of the two Nodal brothers who crossed the
Strait: the parents Cardiel, Quiroga and Strobl, with Captain Oliver the year 1746, intended to
recognize, and populate the Bay of San Julian: Commander of the D. Francisco Pando, for the same
awards: the D. Sunday Perler, officer of the same class with his control, called the Chambequin
Andaluz, and lately which have left Montevideo and Buenos Aires, to form populations in the
Bay without Fund or Punta de San Matias, which drains the Black River and St. Julian, from December
of the year past 1778.

He brought to mind these expeditions by the time series in which they occurred, to demonstrate
the efforts of the Crown to set Parages establishments in those deserts.

The short time that I adhered to, so that narrows my trip, I show leaves room large expenditures
that have led to the Crown, and the people who have sacrificed so arduous enterprises. Newspapers,
news relations and give a true idea of ​​this assertion. But what we have achieved in such repeated
attempts? What have we got so many expenses and losses so large? - At the present time we can
only say, nothing more than meet our curiosity to cross the threshold
and the way we want to close and defend our enemies, and make it impossible
for the reduction of the heathen souls, which has always been the
largest vigilance of our Catholic and religiosísimos Monarchs.

Rare disgrace of our nation, so sacred that have similar purposes as a result! Orders and provisions
of the Court have never failed to achieve them: no expense has been spared, even amid the most
dire times that afflicted the Spain: but inconstancy, emulation,
the lack of sincerity and little pain to work on all occasions, have
been some powerful enemies that have marred so heroic enterprises.

For conviction of this truth, we critical facilities and population that formed Sarmiento,
and Rio San Julian and Black. For those left a navy port San Lucar, led by Diego de Flores, 23
ships, and well that not all of it destined to For this purpose, as is sitting, was reinforced
later in the Rio Janeyro with four galleons; and losses caused by storms, could not be allocated
to the egecucion of these stocks more than two ships and three frigates, under the command of
Diego de Rivera. This Captain, as something lost, thrown or landed people going to settle,
within half a league Strait, lost a boat, it leaves more shelter and aid to Sarmiento a small
bagel for the relief of those people in such remote distances and Parag, whose land in a long
time could not produce fruit for their preservation and survival. It back with the other ships,
without repeating the relief memory. With these provisions, So what
were to have those miserable? - Of course.

The loss of all.

Let us now see what was the cause of these misfortunes, and that it breaks so holy an end. "The
futility of such lands, or the bad provisions of Diego Rivera? - It is well implies that the
latter. The land could not produce, nor bear fruit in years people that they might exist,
and for lack of wins, which is the greatest force and soul of populations, and because, to prepare
the land for agricultural work was must observe the time better suited to the fields, and have the
tools and oxen calls for the need. None of this reflects their inconsistency, and the little pain
to work the voyage, which was to be made through the Strait to Lima and to other ports to support,
encourage and ensure populations. Is performed so strange and violent landing: you look with
indifference the King's service, and the remaining state of those
miserable, abusing the loyalty obedience and courage with which despised
death.

What else could make the Court, in an era when Spain was afflicted with the efforts that caused
the willful rebellion of the flamingos, which gears up as respectable navy, and later strengthened
with four galleons? If you have played Diego Rivera their orders with more foresight, with
another baby, or with more humanity, repeating aid with the vessels under his command, those
populations have been set, or at least would not have lost so loyal and unfortunate Spanish,
but their inconsistency, and no suffering to the work, made useless
the efforts of King, and sacrificed to these unhappy.

Although the experience of these events gave to the wise minister, who so glory of the nation
address the monarchy, the light and knowledge, so do not develop so unfortunate end establishments
latter Bottomless Bays and San Julian, no so have been able to free himself from the same contrasts
that finally brought down to a estenuado skeleton of the young population of the Black River.
With such a strong case (though never gave up the intent of these populations), they had indeed
found the King at any cost in both expressed bays. To this end appointed commissioners, and
ordered families from different provinces of Spain, with his real
will, who enlist the most honest, hardworking and better behavior.

Implemented this project with the first expedition that came out of Montevideo, commanding D. John
Stone, was discovered the port of San Jose, where he was made the first provisional establishment,
and the little water they carried vessels, lack of horses, oxen and mules to lead from sources
that were discovered, and poor quality of food supplies, sick people, and missed the record to wait
for relief from the Rio de la Plata or River Black, which was discovered a short time, forcing
the commander most violent terms D. Antonio de Viedma to withdraw
with almost all of the people, to the square of Montevideo, Santa
Teresa in the packet boat.

The opposite event that caused it was the arrival at Buenos Aires D. Basilio Villarino Black River,
where he delivered the Super-intendant D. Francisco de Viedma, to succor the port of San José,
with a lot of watery which led the brigantine Our Lady of Mount Caramel and Animas, and the loss
of the hooker, call the Visitation, which was to set sail in that bay to drive aid to the San José:
Well, having achieved any of these relief, has not been rooted with
scurvy killed 28 men had not forsaken that position, and caused the
loss of the effects and there were groceries.

These unfortunate principles generally altered and prevented the spirits
so that nothing has been more odious than Patagonian establishments,
and all have conspired to another purpose to destroy them.

The many jobs that means for setting the San Julian, and encamped at the time the People in Puerto
Deseado, where little perseverance and suffering of the commanding officer the troops, and
counter interim seduced and intimidated the other, in terms to avoid was forced inconveniences
the Super-intendant D. Antonio de Viedma send to disposal of His Excellency. D. Juan Jose de
Vertiz, news and the reasons for this deliberation; and as for the diseases suffered in the port
of San Julian, the homeless, long voyage, salted meat food, and other causes, eventually lifting the
universal outcry against the two establishments, whose continued complaints and sighs opened in the
gracious heart of Mr. Vertiz the gap to their way, for which he came
to occupy é impress with the same horror.

Although the establishment of Black River was exempt from the calamities suffered by others, for
its excellent water, abundant game, and cattle with which our aid the Indians, it could not
get rid of equal or greater persecution. Since the early reign in the main heads a spirit of
emulation, of volatility, and no suffering to work: for whose concerns were not exempt persons more
characterized, and together they directed their thoughts to move
the minds of other people, to be abandoned office, whose efforts have
always been challenged by the constancy of the Super-intendant.

These first attempts frustrated, seeing that by the superior government of Buenos Aires had supported
and aided the establishment of extreme necessity in which he was, prepared weapons by other means
to destroy them. Many pondered the expenditure involved, the barrenness
of the land, it was only useful in the short and the pieces on the
shore the river running down their innundaciones, not enough to sustain
a population.

There is nothing sweeter to a lover than to feel that his mistress is of a higher nature and
a finer quality than himself. With many lovers, no doubt, this feeling is but the delusion
of a fond fancy, having no basis in any real superiority on the part of the loved one. But
the mystery surrounding Ida would have tinged the devotion of the most prosaic lover with an
unusual sentiment of awe.

Paul compared himself with those fortunate youths of antiquity who were beloved by the goddesses
of Olympus, and in whose hearts religious adoration and the passion of love blended in one emotion.

Ever since that night when her heart had been melted by the story of his love, Ida had treated
him with the graciousness which a maiden accords to an accepted lover. But far from claiming
the privileges which he might apparently have enjoyed, it seemed to him presumption enough
and happiness enough to kiss her dress, her sleeve, a tress of her hair, or, at most, her hand,
and to dream of her lips.

The dazed appearance, as of one doubtful of herself and all about her, which Ida had worn the
night when she was brought home, had now wholly passed away. But a certain pensiveness remained.
Her smiles were the smiles of affection not of gaiety, and there was always a shadow in her
eyes. It was as if the recollection of the mystery from which her life had emerged were never
absent from her mind.

Still she took so much pleasure in her daily drives with Miss Ludington that the latter ordered
a pony chaise for her special use, and when Paul arranged a croquet set on the village green,
she permitted him to teach her the game, and even showed some interest in it.

When the first dresses which had been ordered for her came home, she was delighted as any girl
must have been, for they were the richest and most beautiful fabrics that money could buy;
but Miss Ludington seemed, of the two, far the more pleased.

For herself she had cared nothing for dress. In forty years she had not given a thought to
personal adornment, but Ida's toilet became her most absorbing preoccupation. On her account
she became a close student of the fashion-papers, and but for the girl's protests would have
bought her a new dress at least every day.

She would have liked Ida to change her costume a dozen times between morning and evening, and
asked no better than to serve as her dressing-maid. To brush and braid her shining hair, stealthily
kissing it the while; to array her in sheeny satins and airy muslins; to hang jewels upon her
neck, and clasp bracelets upon her wrists, and to admire and caress the completed work of her
hands, constituted an occupation which she would have liked to make perpetual.

When Miss Ludington's mother had died she had left to her daughter, then a young girl, all
her jewels, including a rather flue set of diamonds. When one day Miss Ludington took the gems
from the box in which they had been hidden away for half a lifetime, and hung them upon Ida,
saying, "These are yours, my sister," the girl protested, albeit with scintillating eyes, against
the greatness of the gift.

"Why, my darling, they are yours," replied Miss Ludington. "I am not making you a gift. It
was to you that mother gave them. I only return you your own. When you left the world I inherited
them from you, and now that you have come back I return them to you."

And so the girl was fain to keep them.

Thus it had come about that before Ida had been in the house a week it was no longer as a mystery,
or, at least, as an awe-inspiring mystery, but as an ineffably dear and precious reality, that
her presence was felt. Had a stranger chanced to come there on a visit, at that time, he would
doubtless have been struck with the fact that a young girl was the central figure of the household,
around whom its other members revolved; but it is probable that this fact, in itself not unparalleled
in American households, would have seemed to such an observer sufficiently explained by the
unusual gentleness and beauty of the girl herself. The necessity of a supernatural explanation
certainly would not have occurred to him.

The servants had been merely informed that Ida was a relative of Miss Ludington's, and though
they were very curious as to what connection she might be, their speculations did not extend
beyond the commonly recognized modes of relationship. The housekeeper, indeed, who had been
in Miss Ludington's employ many years, and supposed she knew all about the family, thought
it strange that she could recall no young lady relative answering to Ida's description. But
as she found that her most ingenious efforts entirely failed to extract any information on
the subject from Miss Ludington, Paul, or Ida herself, she was obliged, like the rest, to accept
the bare fact that the new-comer was Miss Ida Ludington, and that she was somehow related to
Miss Ludington; a fact speedily supplemented by the discovery that to please Miss Ida was the
surest way to the favour of Miss Ludington and Mr. Paul.

On that score, however, there was no need of any special inducement, Ida's sweet face, and
gracious, considerate ways, having already made her a favourite with all who were attached
to the household.

It was ten days or a fortnight after Ida had been in the house that Miss Ludington received
a letter from Dr. Hull, in which that gentleman said that he should do himself the honour of
calling on her the following day.

He said she might be interested to know that he had already received several communications
from Mrs. Legrand, through mediums, in which she had declared herself well content to have
died in demonstrating so great a truth as that immortality is not individual, but personal.
She considered herself to be most fortunate in that her death had not been a barren one, as
most deaths are; but that in dying, she had been permitted to become the second mother of another,
and far brighter life than hers had been. She felt that she had made a grand barter for her
own earthly existence, which had been so sick and weary.

The bulk of Dr. Hull's letter, which was quite a long one, consisted of further quotations
from Mrs. Legrand's communications.

She said that she had been welcomed by a great multitude of spirits, who to her had owed the
beginning of their recognition on earth, and that their joy over this discovery, which should
bring consolation to many mournful mortals, as well as to themselves, was only equalled by
their wonder that it had not been made years before. It appeared that, since intercourse between
the two worlds had first begun, it had been the constant effort of the spirits to teach this
truth to men; but the stupid refusal of the latter to comprehend had till now baffled every
attempt. How it had been possible that men who had reached the point of believing in immortality
at all should be content to rest in the inadequate and preposterous conception that it only
attached to the latest phase of the individual, was the standing wonder of the spirit world.

It was as if one should throw away the contents of a cup of wine, and carefully preserve the
dregs in the bottom.

That so loose an association of personalities as the individual, and those personalities so
utterly diverse, no two of them even alive at the same time, should have impressed even the
most casual observer as a unit of being--a single person--was accounted a marvel by the angels.
If men had believed all the members of a family to have but one soul among them, their mistake
would have been more excusable, for the members of a family are, at least, alive at the same
time, while the persons of an individual are not even that.

Dr. Hull said that he had gathered from Mrs. Legrand's communications that she had seen many
things which would teach mortals not to grieve for their departed friends, as for shades exiled
to a world of strangers. To such mourners she sent word that their own past selves, who have
likewise vanished from the earth, are keeping their dear dead company in heaven. And far more
congenial company to them are these past selves than their present selves would be, who, through
years and changes since their separation, have often grown out of sympathy with the departed,
as they will find when they shall meet them. The aged husband, who has mourned all his life
the bride taken from him in girlhood, will find himself well-nigh a stranger to her, and his
mourning to have been superfluous; for all these years his own former self, the husband of
her youth, has borne her company.

Dr. Hull said, in closing, that, as probably Miss Ludington would presume, his particular motive
in making bold to break in upon her privacy was a desire, which he was sure she would not confound
with vulgar curiosity, to see again the young lady who had succeeded to his friend's earthly
life in so wonderful a manner, and to learn, what, if any, were the later developments in her
case. The young suspected
for some time for other reasons, has requested permission to withdraw and not denied. Needless
to add, that the ladies will ensure an honorable life ... Y well, my son! What does all this?
Does it make you suffer more? Is as pale as death ...

The truth is, these unexpected news had aroused in me many pleasant
emotions and painful at the time, I felt close to fainting.

* * * * * * * * * * *

Mr. Laubepin must leave tomorrow at dawn, returned this evening to
bid me farewell.

After some awkward words of part to part:

- Ah, my dear boy! - I said - do not wonder about what is happening here, but if you have need
a confidant and a counselor, I would ask the preference.

I could not actually vent in a more friendly heart, or safer.

I did the worthy elderly a detailed account of all the circumstances that have been identified
since my arrival at castle, my special relationship with Miss Margaret.

So I've read some pieces of this newspaper, to clarify the status of these relationships and also
the state of my soul. Except the secret he had discovered the day before in the files of Mr. Laroque,
I hid nothing.

When I finished, Mr. Laubepin whose face had been suspicious had a moment, took word.

- It is useless to pretend, my friend - said - that when we send here, premeditated attach
to Miss Laroque. At first all went according to my wishes. The two hearts, which in my opinion
are worthy of each other, could not be reconciled without understanding: but that's fanciful event,
whose theater has been the tower romantic d'Elven, I confess that
I am baffled entirely.

What the devil! dear boy, jump out the window at the risk of breaking your head, was, let me tell
you, a very sufficient proof of his disinterest, was therefore very superfluous to add to this honorable and
sensitive way, the solemn oath not to marry with this poor girl never had it not been eventualities
that is absolutely impossible to expect. I I have me a man of resources, but I recognize myself
entirely unable to give you two hundred thousand francs of income
or to terminate Ms. Laroque.

- Then, sir, give me some advice.

I have more confidence in you, myself, because I know that misfortune always exposed to the suspect,
has been irritated to excess susceptibilities my honor. Talk. I will induce you to forget the
indiscreet but solemn oath, however, at this point is, I believe,
the only thing that separates me from that, he had dreamed his adopted
son.

Mr. Laubepin stood up, her lashes fell over his eyes, and around the room great strides for
a few minutes, then stopping in front of me and taking my hand with Strength:

- Young - he said - is true, I love him as a child, but even when he should tear his heart and
mine to yours, I will never compromise my principles. Best is to go beyond the honor stay behind
him, on oath, all of which are not required under the tip of a knife or at the mouth of a
gun, we must not make them or meet them: that's my opinion.

- And
mine.

Leaving tomorrow with you.

- No, Max, stay here a while yet.

I do not believe in miracles, but I believe in God rarely allowed to succumb to our strengths
... Let's run to Providence ... I know I ask a great deal of value, but formally claim his
friendship. If one month do not hear from me, then leave.

12 October.

Two days ago I can get out of my retirement and move to the castle. I had not seen Mademoiselle
Margarita from the moment of our separation d'Elven tower. When I entered, was alone in the
room, with the recognition made an involuntary movement to rise,
but remained motionless and her face was a purple colored suddenly
hot.

This was contagious, that I felt that I blushed to the front.

- How are you, sir - I said to reach out, uttering these simple words with a voice so sweet, so humble,
alas so tender, she had wanted to throw in knees before her. However, it was necessary to answer the
political tone of a cold. He looked painfully, then lowered her large eyes with an air of resignation
and continued his work.

Almost at the same moment, her mother summoned next to his grandfather, whose condition worsened
significantly. For many days he had lost his voice and movement, the paralysis had invaded almost
over. The last glimpses of his intellectual life had been extinguished, only sensitivity persisted
with suffering. There could be no doubt that the end of the old man approached, but life had
taken hold very strongly that strong heart, to discard him, without
a stubborn fight.

The doctor had said that the agony would be long. From the appearance of danger, Laroque Madame
and her daughter had lavished their efforts and their vigils with passionate dedication and
enthusiasm of sacrifice, which are under special and the glory of their sex. The day before
yesterday night, and he succumbed to fatigue and fever; Dr. Desmarest and I, we offered to
meet them beside Mr. Laroque during night began. Consented to rest for a few hours. The doctor
also very tired, he soon announced that he would lie on a bed that was in the next room.

- I worship here at all - I said, - everything is done, you see, and
not the poor suffer man ... Is a state of lethargy that has nothing
unpleasant, and which will arouse death ... of one can therefore rest
easy.

If you notice any changes, call me, but I think this will not happen until tomorrow. In the meantime
I'm dying of sleep .-- He gave a yawn sound and left. His language and his coolness under the
dying shocked me. It is, however, an excellent man, but taxed to death the respect that is due, it is necessary
not only see the raw material that it dissolves, but also believe in the immortal principle
that detaches.

Left alone in the funeral chamber, I sat at the foot of the bed whose curtains had been lifted, and
tried to read to the light of a lamp that was near me, on a small table. The book fell from
my hands, my mind could not separate the unique combination of events, that after so many years,
gave to this old man's grandson blame the victim as a witness and protective of his ultimate dream.
Then in the midst of profound calm, time and place, to my regret
evoked the tumultuous and bloody scenes of violence that had filled
this existence to an end.

Distant impression of them was looking in the face of this dying secular, their pale outline of
which is drawing attention to the shade, such as a plaster mask, and only saw in them the seriousness
and the rest premature grave. For intervals at the head approached me for sure if the breath of
life that was far the chest destroyed.

Finally, around midnight, I felt an irresistible drowsiness, and fell asleep with his head resting
on his hand. Suddenly I was awakened by tremors do not know what
grim; I looked up and felt a shudder pass through the marrow of my
bones.

The old man was half raised in bed, and had fixed a watchful eye
on me, astonished, that shone the expression of life and intelligence
that I had hitherto been unknown.

When my eyes met his, the spectrum shuddered, opened his arms crossed,
and I he said with a pleading voice whose timbre strange suspended
the movement of my heart.

- Marquis, forgive me!

I wanted to get up, I wanted to talk, but in vain. I was frozen in my chair.

- Marquis - continued - deign to forgive me!

Finally I found the strength to come to him to how I approached, he retreated painfully to escape
back to an awesome touch. I raised a hand, and lowering it gently to your eyes wide open and
desperate terror.

- Die in peace! - I said - I forgive!

He had not even finished speaking when his withered face lit up with lightning of joy and youth.
While two tears flowed from their sunken sockets.

Extended their hands to me, suddenly, the hand was slammed and stretched in space with a threatening
gesture, I saw squirming and rolling their eyes from their sockets dilated as if a bullet had
struck his heart.

- Oh! English - muttered.

Fell back on the pillow like an inert mass. He was dead.

Hastily called, and everyone came. Very soon he was surrounded by pious tears and prayers.
I retired with my soul deeply moved by this extraordinary scene, which was forever remain secret,
including the dead man and me.

This sad event has made the family even care about me and duties of
which needed to justify to myself the extension of my home in the
house.

It is impossible conceive under what grounds Mr. Laubepin has advised me to take to get my
game. What I can expect from this postponement?

I think that this phenomenon has yielded to a kind of vague superstition and childish weakness,
he was not a soul ever having bowed of his mettle and to which I myself have done wrong to submit.
How I did not realize that imposed with an increase in unnecessary suffering, a paper without
honesty and without dignity? What I do forward?

Is it not time with just cause, could reprochárseme playing with
the feelings more sacred?

My first interview with Miss Margaret had sufficed to reveal full
force, all the impossibility of proof to which I was convicted, when
death Mr. Laroque has come to take for a short time to my relationships
have naturally, and kind of welfare to my stay at the castle.

Rennes, October 16.

Everything has been said, my God! How strong was this tie! In what
way wrap my heart!

To what extent has shattered the break!

Last night, around nine, I was I leaning on my window open when I was surprised by a faint light
was coming to my room through the dark park roads and in a direction not usually bring the
people of the castle. A moment later he called at my door, and Mademoiselle de Porhoet came panting.

-
Primo - I said - I have to talk to you.

- Is there any trouble? - I asked, looking at her face.

- No, not just that. Judge for yourself. Sit. My dear son, have you spent two or three nights at
the castle this week have not seen anything new in it singular or in the attitude of the ladies?
...

- Nothing.

- Have not you noticed at least in his face a kind of serenity is not used? ...

- Yes, maybe ... Putting aside the recent melancholy of grief seemed to me more calm, and further
said that in another time.

- Without doubt, would have drawn attention to other particulars if you would like me lived
fifteen years in daily intimacy. So I have often surprised including signs of a secret intelligence,
of a mysterious complicity. Later, their habits have changed significantly. Madame de Laroque
has cast aside his brazier his box, and all innocent hobbies Creole rises to one hour and installed
fabulous from dawn to Margaret in front of the desk. They both entered a taste passionate
about embroidery, and reported the money that a woman can win a day with this kind of work.
Finally, it is in a mystery whose name in vain I despaired be found. She recently revealed to
avail me and without having to enter the secret from you before what suits you, I believed to
be transmitted without delay.

After the protests of absolute confidence, that I hastened to guide
you, Mademoiselle de Porhoet continued in his sweet, strong language:

-
Mrs. Aubry came to see me this night to sneak, began his horrible
throw his neck, so I did not like, and then, through a thousand lamentations
personal that excuse again, begged me to stop his relatives on the
brink of ruin.

- Here's what I've heard listening through the doors,
according to his usual funny, me said that these ladies are currently
seeking permission to leave all their assets to a congregation of
Rennes, in order to remove you from Margarita and disadvantages that
separate them.

Unable to make you rich, they become poor.

I have found it impossible cousin, leaving you to ignore this determination, equally worthy
of these two generous souls and chimeric these two heads. Excuse me add that his duty is to
thwart at all costs this project. It seems futile to talk of repentance that prepares our infallibly
friends, and the terrible responsibility that threat, you understand
as well as me.

If I could, my friend, accept at the moment the hand of Margarita,
the matter would end in the most happy, but is linked to this subject
by a compromise which, however blind however unwise it was, is no
less binding for that honor.

It only remains a party to make: to leave this country without delay and resolutely cut all hope
entertaining your stay here. When you party, I will make it easier to return to these two girls
to the right.

- Well, I am ready; be leaving tonight.

- Very Good - continued: - when I give this advice my friend, myself to obey a law While rigorous
honor. You sweetens the last moments of my long solitude has turned me illusion of the sweetest
charms of life lost me years ago. Away you make my last sacrifice
... is immense.

He got up and looked at me a moment without speaking.

- At my age not to embrace the young - he continued, smiling sadly, - bless them. Goodbye, dear
son, and thank you ... May God help you ... I kissed her trembling hands, and she left me precipitously.

I
rushed to my dressings for the game: after I wrote a few lines to Mrs. Laroque. The resignation
begged to reach a resolution which had not calculated, and for my part, he was determined
to not make me an accomplice. I gave my word and she knew she could
be counted, that would never accept my happiness at the expense of
ruin.

At the end, to turn away the best of his foolish project, spoke vaguely a near future in pretending
glimpse of hope of fortune.

At midnight, when everyone was asleep, say goodbye, a cruel farewell
to my retirement, to that old tower that had suffered so much, where
both had loved! and I slipped into the castle a side door, the key
was entrusted to me.

Crossed stealthily, like a criminal, empty galleries and sound, guiding
the best I could in the darkness, I finally the room, where he had
first seen.

She and her mother had left, was just an hour recently manifested their presence even for a
sweet, warm scent that I got drunk suddenly. I looked and touched the basket in his hand had
hung a few moments before his embroidery begun.

Alas, poor heart!

I knelt before her place, and there with the forehead on the marble, weeping and sobbing like a
child. God, how I love it!

I took the last hours of the night to secretly drive me to the small town neighbor, where I
took the coach of Rennes. Tomorrow night I'll be in Paris. Poverty, loneliness, despair, I
left there, I shall find you again! Last dream of my youth, sleep Sky, bye!

Paris.

The next day morning, when he was going to ride on the train, entered the courtyard of hotel
a post carriage, and saw him down the old Alain. When I saw his face lit.

- Ah, sir, how fortunate that no party! Take this letter.

- I recognized the letter of Mr. Laubepin. I said in two lines of Porhoet was Miss seriously ill and
called me. But I did not take the time to change horses and threw me in the chair, after having
decided to Alain, not without difficulty, to sit down compared to me. Then he stunned questions.
I made him repeat the news that brought me and seemed inconceivable.

Miss Porhoet had received the day before from Mr. Laubepin, a ministerial statement, which he announced
that he was brought into full and entire possession the inheritance of their relatives in Spain
.-- And it seems - added Alain - that it should be the Lord, he has discovered in the loft some
old papers, in which no one dreamed and have tasted good right to the old lady. I do not know
what is true in this, but it is a pity - I said - that to this respectable lady has her head
stuck in the ideas of Cathedral and does not want to abandon ... because, you note, which is more
wedded than ever. At first, when the news fell on the pavement round and was believed dead; but
an hour later he began to speak, without end or respite, its cathedral,
the choir, the nave, the council and the canons, North Wing and South
Wing, so that to calm has been necessary to bring an architect, builders,
and put on the bed of the ill-fated planes building.

     Finally, after three hours of conversation on the subject is drowsy
for a while; waking, asked to see Mr. ... Mr. Marquis (Alain bent
eyes closed) and made me run after him, seems to want to consult it
on the choir loft.

     

This strange event caused me the liveliest surprise. However, with the help of my memories and confusing
details that Alain gave me, I came to give me an explanation of them, were confirmed positive news
very soon. As I said, business succession of the Spanish branch of the Porhoet had gone through
two phases. There had been first among Mademoiselle de Porhoet and a big house of Castile,
a long process that my old friend had ended up losing in the final analysis, then a new process,
in which de Porhoet was not, had been raised, regarding the same succession, the heirs Spanish
and the crown, which meant that goods returned to it by right of establishment of the estate.

"Since at the Escorial on April 10, 1716.

I THE KING. "

Next to this piece, it was just a translated copy, had found the original text the arms of Spain.
I had not hidden the importance of this document, but had feared exagerármela. Doubted the
validity of title, on which they had spent so many events and many events were supported by
the Spanish government, and even doubted that would the power to make room, even if they wanted
to have them. I decided therefore to stop ignoring Mademoiselle de Porhoet, a discovery whose consequences
seemed to be very problematic and I merely brought the title to Mr. Laubepin. Not receiving any
answer, I soon to forget in the midst of personal care that overwhelmed me then. The Spanish government
acting in a manner contrary to my unjust suspicion, had not hesitated to play word of King Philip,
and the moment that a supreme decree just started tackling succession
to the crown of the Porhoet immense, by another decree the nobly restored
to its rightful heir.

It was nine o'clock at night when the carriage went down in the wet threshold of the cottage
I had just come in, albeit belatedly, this fortune almost real. The servant came to open up; wept
bitterly. Moment I heard the deep voice of Mr. Laubepin who said:
- He's climbed .-- hastily. The old man squeezed my hand tightly and
introduced me, without uttering a word, the fourth of Mademoiselle
de Porhoet. The doctor and the priest of the town remained silent
in the hollow of a window. Madame de Laroque was kneeling on a chair
near the bed, her daughter standing at the bedside, holding the pillow
on which rested the pale head of my poor old friend. When I saw the
patient, a weak smile lit her face, profoundly altered, and tore one
of his arms painfully. I took her hand, fell to my knees I could not
hold back my tears.

- My son, my dear son to !...-- Laubepin Then
stared. The old notary then took the bed a sheet of paper, and continuing,
apparently interrupted reading, read:

"For these reasons, instituted
by the holographic will, by universal legatee of all my estate, both
in Spain and France, without reservation or qualification, to a maximum
of Santiago Mary Odiot, Marquis d'Hauterive Champcey, noble-hearted
as to race.

Paul had heard distinctly only her first words, in which she had stated her belief that Ida
loved him and would probably be his wife. This intimation had set up such a turmoil in his
brain that he had not been able to follow what she had subsequently said. There was a roaring
in his ears. Her voice seemed to come from very far away, nor did he remember how long afterwards
it was that he left her.

As he went downstairs the door of the sitting-room stood open, and he looked in. Ida sat there
reading.

The weather was very warm, and her dress was some gauzy stuff of a pale-green tint which set
off her yellow hair and bare arms and throat with sumptuous effect. She was a ravishing symphony
in white, pale green, and gold.

She had not heard his approach, and was unconscious of his gaze. As he thought of her as the
woman who might be his wife, he grew so faint with love, so intimidated with a sense of his
presumption in hoping to possess this glorious creature, that, not daring to enter, he fled
out into the darkness to compose himself.

No experience of miscellaneous flirtations, or more or less innocent dalliance, had ever weakened
the witchery of woman's charms to him, or dulled the keenness of his sensibility to the heaven
she can bestow. For an hour he wandered about the dark and silent village street, waiting for
the tumult of his emotions to subside sufficiently to leave him in some degree master of himself.
When at last he returned to the house, his nerves strung with the resolution to put his fortune
to the test, Ida was still in the sitting-room where he had left her.

Miss Ludington's conversation with Paul had left her in a mood scarcely less  agitated than
his. The sensation with which she had watched his devotion to Ida during the past weeks had
been a sort of double-consciousness as if it were herself whom Paul was wooing, although at
the same time she was a spectator. The thoughts and emotions which she ascribed to Ida agitated
her almost as if they had been experienced in her proper person.

It was a fancy of hers that between herself and Ida there existed a species of clairvoyance,
which enabled her to know what was passing in the latter's mind--a completeness of rapport
never realized between any other two minds, but nothing more than might be expected to attend
such a relationship as theirs, being a foretaste of the tie that joins the several souls of
an individual in heaven. She had never had a serious love affair in her life, but now, in her
old age, she was passing through a genuine experience of the tender passion through her sympathetic
identification with Ida.

As she sat in her chamber after Paul had gone, fancying herself in Ida's place, imagining what
she would hear him say, what would be her feelings, and what she would answer, her cheeks flushed,
her breath came quickly, and there was a dew like that of dreaming girlhood in her faded eyes.

She was still flushing and trembling when there came a soft knock on her door, and Paul and
Ida stood before her.

Ida was blushing deeply, with downcast face, and the long lashes hid her eyes. She stood slightly
bending forward, her long beautifully moulded arms hanging straight down before her. She looked
like a beautiful captive, and Paul, as he clasped her waist with his arm, and held one of her
hands in his, looked the proudest of conquerors.

"I did not know but I might be dreaming it," he said, "and so I brought her for you to see.
She says she will be my wife"

CHAPTER XIII.

Paul's courtship of Ida really began the night when he took her in his arms as his promised
wife, for although she had called him her lover before, his devotion, while impassioned enough,
had been too distant and wholly reverential to be called a wooing. But the night of their betrothal
his love had caught from her lips a fire that was of earth, and it was no longer as a semi-spiritual
being that he worshipped her, but as a woman whom it was no sacrilege to kiss a thousand times
a day, not upon her hand, her sleeve, or the hem of her dress, but full upon the soft warm mouth.

This transformation of the devotee into the lover on his part was attended by a corresponding
change in Ida's manner toward him. A model relieved from a strained pose could not show more
evident relief than she did in stepping down from the pedestal of a tutelary saint, where he
had placed her, to be loved and caressed like an ordinary woman, for if the love had at first
been all on his side, it certainly was not now.

"I'm so glad," she said one day, "that you have done with worshipping me. Think of your humbling
yourself before me, you who are a hundred thousand times better, and wiser, and greater than
I. Oh, Paul it is I who ought to worship you, and who am not good enough to kiss you," and
before he could prevent her she had caught his hand, and, bowing her face over it, had kissed
it. As he drew it away he felt that there were tears upon it. It was evening, and he could
not see her face distinctly.

"Darling," he exclaimed, "what is the trouble?"

"Oh, nothing at all!" she replied. "It is because I am in love, I suppose."

Whether it was because she was in love or not it is certain that she took to crying very often
during these days. Her manner with her lover, too, was often strangely moody. Sometimes she
would display a gaiety that was almost feverish, and shortly after, perhaps, he would surprise
her in tears. But she always declared that she was not unhappy; and, unable to conceive of
any reason why she should be, Paul was fain to conceive that she was merely nervous.

The absorption of the lovers in each other's society naturally left Miss Ludington more often
alone than before; but Ida was very far from neglecting her for her lover. Her care for her
since her sickness was such as a daughter might give to a beloved and invalid mother. It was
an attention such as the lonely old lady had never enjoyed in her life, or looked for, and
would have been most grateful to have had from any one, but how much more from Ida!

The village street was a rarely romantic promenade on moonlight evenings, and the twanging
of Paul's guitar was often heard till after midnight from the meeting-house steps, which were
a favourite resort with the lovers. Those steps, in the Hilton of Miss Ludington's girlhood,
had been a very popular locality with sentimental couples, and she well remembered certain
short-lived romances of Ida's first life on earth with which they had been associated. One
night, when the young people had lingered there later than usual, Miss Ludington put on her
shawl and stepped across the green to warn them that it was time for even lovers to be abed.

As she approached, Paul was seated on the lower step, touching his guitar, and facing Ida,
who sat on the step above leaning back against a pillar. A blotch of moonlight fell upon her
dreamy, upturned face. One hand lay in her lap, and the fingers of the other were idly playing
with a tress of hair that had fallen over her bosom. How well Miss Ludington remembered that
attitude, and even the habit of playing with her hair which Ida had in the days so long gone by.

She stood in the shadow watching her till Paul ceased playing. Then she advanced and spoke to them.

"I have been standing here looking at you, my sister," she said. "I have been trying to imagine
how strangely it must come over you that forty years ago you sat here as you sit here now,
just as young and beautiful then as now, and Paul not then born, even his parents children
at that time."

Ida bent down her head and replied, in scarcely audible tones, "I do not like to think of those
days."

"And I don't like to think of them," echoed Paul, with a curious sensation of jealousy, not
the first of the kind that he had experienced in imagining the former life of his darling.
"I do not like to think who may have sat at her feet then. I, too, would like to forget these
days."

Ida bent her head still lower and said nothing. It was Miss Ludington who spoke.

"You have no ground to feel so," she said. "I can bear her witness--and what better witness
could you have?--that till now she never knew what it is to love. It is true she sat here then
as now, and there were others at her feet, drawn by the same beauty that has drawn you, but
their voices never touched her heart. She had to come back again to earth to learn what love is."

Paul bent contritely, and kissed Ida's feet as she sat above him, murmuring, "Forgive me!"
Her hand sought his and pressed it with convulsive strength.

They walked home in silence, gentle Miss Ludington inwardly reproaching herself for the embarrassment
her words had seemed to cause Ida. This surface, which has little about
twenty square degrees, or are thirteen thousand seven hundred and fifty leagues, to twenty-five the
degree, is bounded on the north by the Guaporé or Itenes and Beni (river to draw the boundary
between Bolivia and Brazil), with the latter that separates it from the Caupolican province
by the north-west parle. Natural limits to the west by the side of the country of Yuracares
are desert plains are located at the foot of last foothills of the Andes. Finally, the province
is circumscribed towards Moxos the south, southeast and east by immense impenetrable forests or
swamps brought without certain threshold, between it and the provinces of Santa Cruz de la
Sierra and Chiquitos.

Mountains.

Albeit quite Moxos province neighboring hills to the Chiquitos east and north to the Brazilian mountains,
outlining the right bank of Itenes river, and west to the last foot of the mountains of the Yuracares,
contains no in its division one mountain, nor even minor hills, formed by So a flat surface,
which meets the south with the vast plains of Santa Cruz of the Sierra, and the north-west with
the province Caupolican. On the horizon without limits, scarcely four highlights are found
rising to the height of thirty poles on the remainder of the land, and that, unless it be in the
midst of a country so highly level, it would perhaps inapercibidos. These four points are a few
morons isolated the first which is the Cerro del Carmen, is situated about twelve or fifteen
miles southeast of the mission its name, and between the rivers Blanco and San-Miguel, the
second placed on the bank Machupo River right, and neighbor to the mission that is called,
is the hill of San-Ramon, the third is a small hill below the Exaltation located on the right bank
of the Mamore: finally, the fourth, which is the hill of Saint-Simon, is found east of Magdalena, his
reputation I feel very rich doubtful, as it must be that of all places inaccessible ensures
no However, it is full of mines of gold and diamonds.

Rios.

In a mountainous country reliefs determine the direction of the currents; per in Moxos whose
territory no more than a single uniform and without sharp plain, where eminences that separate
small rivers disappear under the flood at stations rain, in canoes through allowing a large part of
the province, all currents the plain weave circuit converging towards the center, and heading
to the slopes Amazon, after having met on three main, which are the
Guaporé or Iten, the Mamore and Beni.

Guaporé or Itenes tributaries.

The Barbados born in Rio de Chiquitos Province [1], at quite a distance away from Moxos: This
stream, chief among those that give birth to Guaporé, is navigable Casalbasco further up. As
she starts in a swamp where the river takes origin also Paraguay, would very likely join the
first tributary of this river with Guaporé, opening for this channel
only four thousand eight hundred yards.

In this way they would hand the two giant rivers of South America, the Plata and Amazon coming to
form a natural channel of over two hundred thousand leagues.

The Rio Verde takes origin north of San-Ignacio de Chiquitos, and
moving toward the northwest, go to Barbados to meet the river, near
the 64 degrees of longitude and latitude of 14, forming Guaporé this
river or Itenes: steamboats can freely browse and upload it too up
towards its headwaters.

The Rio Serre was born north of Concepcion de Chiquitos, and in the
same direction as the Green River, joins the Guaporé twenty-five miles
below.

It is equally navigable for boats of any dimension.

The Rio Blanco or Baures also takes its origin north of Concepcion de Chiquitos, and as previous
two is heading towards the northwest, passing immediately and to
Carmen Concepcion Moxos to go to flow into the Guaporé, near the fort
of Beira.

You can browse this river to Chiquitos.

The Rio Itonama receives, under the name Rio de San-Miguel, much of the waters of Chiquitos; is
then attached to Huacaré near Guarayos, and is parallel to the Rio
Blanco to join Guaporé conjunction with the Machupo River, near the
fort of Beira.

Ships can steam everywhere sail on its waters to Chiquitos.

The Rio Machupo wealthy tribute of many streams that leave from the bosom of the plains Moxos
flooded, these streams are, San-Juan, navigable from San-Pedro, the Mooch, Mill, the Machupo and
Chananoca, all gathered and when the river passes Machupo ahead of
the missions of San-Ramon and San-Joaquin, to go and join the river
Itonama, and to couple this throw then in the Guaporé, also near the
fort of Beira.

Guaporé river, once the repository of all these streams of water running
towards the oestenorueste to become incorporated with the Mamore,
around 12 degrees south latitude and 68 west longitude meridian of
Paris.

Tributaries of the Mamore.

Mamore river receives all the waters of the eastern slopes of the mountains, its tributaries, starting
with those found further east, are as follows.

Ivary River rises in the flood plains that are west of the country of Guarayos and heading towards
the northwest, left receives the waters of the rivers Tico and San-Antonio, going to meet with
the Mamore a little above the Trinity Moxos. River is navigable body almost all along its course.

The
Rio Grande has all the waters Chayanta mountainous provinces of Cochabamba,
Mizque and Valle Grande, then descending to the plains of Santa Cruz,
and Adunaic Piray to form the Sara river north of the province.

You can browse their waves up near Santa Cruz de la Sierra.

Piray River rises in the mountains of Samaypata, province of Valle Grande, flows into the plain
of Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and passes near the city of that name, receiving everywhere small
tribute, and then continuing parallel to the Rio Grande to join with him to form the Sara River,
far to the south of 15 degrees latitude.

Its still very fast current in some parts, but when mother leaves can navigate the waters ships
of any dimension.

The Rio Ibaba takes origin under the name of Yapacany in the mountains
east towards the east the country of the Yuracarés, and continues
to run, parallel to the rivers Grande and Piray up Sara plunge into
the river, a few miles below the point at which flows in this same
the last of those.

Ibaba river is navigable for the most part.

The Rio Mamore born east of the river Ibaba on the mountains of the eastern slope of the and
the country ranges from Yuracares. His current that flows received course the Chimoré, walks
along the plain towards the north Moxos, bending a few degrees west. This river, receiving
the tribute of the other rivers of the province preserves Mamore name to 10 degrees south
latitude, in which the term incorporated with Beni, making the denomination
of the Madeira River.

The Mamore can serve as a vehicle to the cruise to the foot of the mountains.

The Rio Chapare, consisting of rivers Coni, San-Mateo, Paracti and many others born in the country
of Yuracares, west of Mamore on the eastern slopes of the mountains,
and heading north meets the south towards the Mamore 15 degrees south
latitude.

You can browse by him, to the confluence of the river Coni, ie to the point where the plain begins.

Securi
River, formed by the rivers Chipiriri Samucebeté, Isidoro, Yaniyuta, and Sinuta Securi, all
of them navigable to the foot of the mountains, receives the streams of the watershed East
of these, from 68 to 70 degrees west longitude, and is incorporated
the above Mamoré of Trinidad, north of 15 degrees latitude.

Tijamuchi River rises in the Eastern Cordillera, west of the last tributaries Securi river, the
river receives water Taricuri and crosses the plain of the province by the northeast to the
Mamore, which meets as 14 degrees latitude, a little above Mission
San-Pedro.

Large boats can ascend it to the foot of mountains.

The origin takes Aper Rio, west of the former, on the same mountain: after receiving the tribute
of the Rio San Jose is heading towards the northeast to go to join
the Mamore below the Tijamuchi, less than half a degree away from
each other.

It is also This navigable river to well above its current.

The Rio Yacuma also born west of the implement and at the same cerranía;
Adunaic then with Rapulo river, immediately goes to the mission of
Santa Ana and goes to meet with quite the Mamore 14 degrees north.

He can climb up the confines of the plains.

Iruyani River has its headwaters in the plain, and receiving the river flow is Bococa throws
in the Mamore towards the north of 13 degrees.

The Mamore, after flows have treasured these eleven main streams, are Aduna as 12 degrees or Guaporé
Itenes river, then continued his march towards north to receive the drainage of Beni and form the
Madeira River. Tributaries of the Rio Beni.

The Beni River, which has already been made when talking long Mension Caupolican, mountain boots located
northeast of the mountains in the provinces of Cochabamba, Sicasica,
Yungas Dolls and Apolobamba, and ends in the plains as 14 degrees
latitude, receives tributes to the west of the river Mapiri, Tuyche
river, etc.. This is followed by running towards the north to 11 degrees,
with change of direction, twisting the northeast to go to join with
the Mamore at 10 degrees latitude.

When considered as a whole streams that cross the province Moxos not can but admire you have
an area of ​​eighteen degrees, or are ten thousand leagues, thirty-four crossed rivers, navigable
almost throughout its entire course, not having Meanwhile another conduit for draining the Mamore
River. Naturally results from this unique territorial arrangement, which in the rainy season most
of the waters of the province Chiquitos, Bolivia and center on the eastern slope down at once,
with more or less momentum, to settle to the bottom of that great receptacle, say so, that is the
province Moxos, where not finding it easy and natural conduit to the overflow, they spread across
the plain, causing flooding, that few Parages are on deck so we can traveled almost the whole
province in this season, rowing in canoes that pass unimpeded over some small eminences that separate
rivers. But if in the rainy season there is only little tongues of land, and immune to flood are
a kind of island where they breed cattle and tilled the land, everything changes in appearance
in the dry season, the rivers are encased in their beds, gorgeous meadows replaced to the muddy
swamps, and the province has an all over virgin soil which provides to agriculture. Its territory
is a set of plains on which they became aware of distance boscages isolated at intervals, taking
higher ground, he can not reach water the annual floods.

The perfect equality Moxos field determined in this province a geographical disposition very particular.
Not only small eminences that should be among the various currents, are entirely foreign to its
territory, but also take different rivers origin in the same swamp, like the river and the
river Machupo Huarichona (tax the Itonama), both born in the same lake. Would not this a timely
occasion to ask to geographers too systematic, that everywhere you want indispensably mountains between
each row of water, how come in this place not exist?

In most of the streams just mentioned there are still many streams, branches of these main trunks,
and I do not give here the nomenclature. Its currents could only used for navigation during periods
of rising: in the rest of the year remains almost completely dry.

Lagos.

If time Moxos growing province, flooded almost everywhere, shape, say, a single sheet of water
in the dry season the plains are lean, and only on the parts are more sunken floor, many wetlands,
particularly east and west of the province, but many lakes are permanent.

Can include certain however:

Chitiopa Lagoon, which is located far above the Carmen, in the same header White River, which
gives rise accordingly.

Itonama Lagoon, which is placed on the river of the same name, about twenty-five Magdalena leagues
above: is this lake about two miles wide, on four to five long and consists of an extraordinary widening
river.

Only time serene Indian venture to sail in her, but always with some suspicion that leaves
to be founded, as the olad usually wind up suddenly, inevitably plunge their canoes.

Near San-Ramon, are two permanent lakes, one located at a distance of half a league and the
other a little less than two leagues. Both have an oblong shape and
diameter as a league at the most.

It is very exquisite fish to be taken from them, but the crowd of alligators clogs much to the
fishermen. Still, in the vicinity of Mission San-Joaquin, another lake of the same dimension
as above and also contains plenty of fish.

By the time they are finally to dry more of the above, is in the middle
of the plain is immediate to the rivers, many small lakes or ponds,
as too narrow causes are unimportant: on the other hand, those who
are on the edge of rivers, such as those on the banks of the Mamore,
change frequently according to the terromonteros site or the avenues
of such rivers.

Geology.

Moxos province no since, apparently, another aspect that of a geographical plain to the south
circumscribed by the mountains of the Andes and the hills of Chiquitos towards the north by the
hills of Diamond and Brazilian ITENE. This plain, in the who come to finish all the currents
of the eastern slope of the mountain ranges and western and northern slopes of the province of
Chiquitos and the General Captaincy Mato-Grosso, meets with pampas through Monte Grande, whereas
prolonged to the north, established at that point the communication with the major source of
the Amazon: so that the province is nothing Moxos the northern continuation of pampas, the southern
continuation of the plains of the Amazon, or rather, a prosecution of that immense low is located
on a the last foothills of the mountains and forests Brazil, which embraces from north to south
across the center of the southern continent of America, interrupted
only from the ninth to the tenth degree of latitude, the slightly
elevated cerranía determining the many rapids and falls of the Madeira
River.

When the river of San-Miguel out of control, which takes place every year, its steep banks offer alluvial
earthy, very fine sand mixed with clay or blackish, and deposited in horizontal layers. They
leave such land gradually lifted with the addition of particles pulled to the high places of
the province of Chiquitos. Between the rivers of San-Miguel Baures and significant wetlands,
mud-covered modern alluvium and clay muddy red that I have some relation to my land of the pampas,
but not seen I in them animal fossils: these clays are in that place the bottom layer to the floods
current, because they are not plain to see but when these floods, blackened earth compounds
or fine sand, become uprooted by erosion. These lands are remarkable especially in the stream
of San-Francisco and somewhat later, towards the mission of Carmen. According assured me, these
same clays be stretched, rising towards the south, on a vast area that lies between the rivers
Blanco and San-Miguel. In their midst rises, and at a distance of twelve leagues to the SSE, a
small sandstone moron of the Devonian formation, which has many similarities
with that of Guarayos.

White does not cross the river but above modern alluvium, I have found yet on many points in the vicinity
of Concepcion, and mainly in the immediate surroundings to the mission, some patches of pampas
field below the fine sand of recent flooding. All the plains, which extend from Concepcion
and from Baures to Magdalena, are consist of alluvium, to exception of small towns places
where boscages discover a little red silty clay: the slopes of Guacaraje and several points Magdalena
also around the manifest. These small pieces of land of the pampas,, scattered everywhere, I
gave unequivocal evidence that silt covers the eastern province, and if not visible in other
places is because it has been covered. In these plains, a rod of difference in the level it
is enough to cover up the floods, making it disappear completely. There to the east, 20 degrees
north of the compass and about ten miles from Magdalena, a fairly high hill which I did not visit,
but that according to what I said a priest who had considered, should
be composed also of sandstone.

Between Magdalena and San-Ramon are still covered with alluvial plains, being noticeable only
near the hacienda of San-Carlos, and between Machupo and Huarichona rivers, some spots red clay.
San-Ramon is found under those muddy clay, a true clay containing a large number of hydrated
iron nuggets and offers throughout the layer Guaraniana my field. Is effectively the same package,
and they are composed the same round grains. Placing one beside the other two rocks do not have
the most slightest difference. On the slopes of the river red clay Machupo manifest covering
Dry all parts of the outlines of San-Joaquin. However, on the same site the mission and its circuit,
and seven miles further north, and also near the confluence of rivers Machupo é Iten, I noticed under
considerable pieces of land tertiary Pampa Guaraniana with hydrated iron nuggets. These clays, filled
with shiny black seeds hydrate of iron, cover, according to my particular observations, an
area of ​​about twenty leagues long, where the richest ore shown at ground without ever intended
to benefit. In making this discovery the year 1832, immediately figured the fat benefits that
could accrue to the Republic tillage these mines, and no doubt they would operate a favorable
change things, providing its inhabitants the material and the means of all manner of industrial enterprises.

The
left bank of Guaporé, near Fort Beira, consists of flooded lowlands
rising time, or from scraps of land Guaraniana with hydrate of iron
nuggets: the right bank, on the contrary, it is rising in hills to
the mountains formed by one of the branches of the Diamond, which
mountains, going in parallel with the current Itenes River east-southeast
toward the oestenorueste and continues to a point well separated in
the middle of the jungle, where it is to determine the rapids and
falls of the Madeira River.

It is composed these mountains of crumbling sandstone, very ferruginous and generally red, similar
at all to those of the Sierra de San-Jose de Chiquitos and also to those of the last foothills of
the mountains, going down towards the north and northeast of Cochabamba. This stone Sandstone
is a compact whole hidden layer at an angle of twelve or fifteen degrees. These layers, which seem
to stretch it out to far to the north, going to finish near River Iten, where they are disguised,
over a width of more than a league, by crowding ferruginous, in perfectly horizontal streaks, which
contain much iron hydrate. These conglomerations, entirely identical to those of Chiquitos,
and even tell you also to the Corrientes province, represent exactly my field Guaraniana.
I have found thus in this part of the province, the tertiary crowding Guaraniana as ferruginous
level of the ancient land, in the clay layer with hydrated iron nuggets, similar to those of Corrientes,
and finally, the Pampa area with limos, all of which is covered by modern alluvium.

Guaporé stream introduced me everywhere, on its left bank, landslides modern, which extend to
a point that is ten miles before reaching the confluence, where I believed again noted a considerable
layer of reddish silty clay, mixed with floods: the right bank is composed meantime, for the space
of a few leagues from ferruginous crowding often concealed by landslides after floods land and
flooded only to the confluence of the Mamore. I have not offered this on its banks, almost
all along its course, anything but modern alluvial sand. I noticed however, some leagues Exaltation
down in the middle of a forest located short distance to the river,
a small isolated hill on the plain, to which I could not approach;
but they assured me that was composed of crumbly sandstone, perhaps
similar to the stone Carboniferous sandstone.

Also found muddy red clay beneath alluvium in around the missions of exaltation, of Santa Ana, San-Pedro,
San-Xavier, Trinidad and Loreto.

Chapare river current has taught me everywhere modern alluvial sandy, I believed noted, however,
on many points, which were hidden under these alluvial clays muddy, but this only happens
to a great distance from the mountains. The first QUIJARRO manifest at the confluence of the rivers
Coni and San-Mateo. I've seen it done this in the river Securi. In all the places where no current
passes over land and tours of the waters, I saw a thick layer of alluvial soil, sand formed
fine clay or brown, hornaguera, which conceals a silty clay, yellow or red, a very different
time and come from causes clearly announced prior to the current state of affairs. A report about
the age of alluvial assured me completely.


"It was all so easy, so easy; we need not have taken half the precautions we did; you were
so absolutely convinced from the first moment that I was the Ida of the picture. From the time
I came home with you that night till now there has been no question of my proving who I was,
but only of Miss Ludington's proving, and of your proving, to me, that you were the persons
you claimed to be. It was not whether I was related to her, but only that she was related to
me, which Miss Ludington thought in any need of demonstration.

"And as for you, Paul, it is not your fault that I was not your wife weeks ago.

"And so I should have been, and Miss Ludington's heir besides, but for two particulars in which
our plot was fatally defective. It provided for all contingencies, but made no allowance for
the possibilities that I might prove capable of gratitude towards Miss Ludington, and that
I might fall in love with you. Both these things have happened to me, and there is no choice
left me but to fly in the night. Of course I had expected you to fall in love with me, and
had fancied you so much, after seeing you the first time, as to feel that it would be very
fine to have you for a lover, and even for a husband. But that was not really love at all.
I think if you could understand even a little what dismay came over me when I first realized
that my heart was yours, you would almost pity me. After that, to deceive you was torture to
me, and yet, to tell you the truth would have been to make you loathe me like a snake. Oh,
Paul! think of what I have suffered these past weeks, and pity me a little!

"You will understand now why it was that I could not bear to have the circumstances of the
fraud we had practised on you alluded to in my presence, and why, after the first few days,
I never spoke of them myself.

"When father, whom you know as Dr. Hull, came that day to see how the plot was succeeding,
I thought I should die with shame. He tried to catch my eye, and to get a chance to speak with
me, but I avoided him. He must have gone away very much puzzled by my conduct, for it had been
arranged between us that he should come. By that time, you see, I had become heart-sick of
the part I was playing.

"But, Paul, you must not think that it was mere sham, father's drawing you out so much to talk
at the table that night, and pretending to be so much taken up with what you said. He is great
for being taken up with new ideas, and I think his interest was quite genuine. I knew before
I left home that he half believed you to be right about the immortality of past selves. For
my part, I believe it wholly, and that I have abused not only Miss Ludington and you, but the
spirit of her whom I have personated.

"If Miss Ludington had not so loaded me with kindness I could have borne it, better, but to
have that sweet old lady fairly worshipping the ground one trod on, and covering one with gifts,
and dresses, and jewels, would have been too much, I think, for the conscience of the worst
person in the world.

"I should have fled from the house before I had been here a week but for you, Paul. I could
not bear to leave you. If I had only gone then I should have saved myself much; for what would
it have been to leave you then to what it is now!

"It was very wrong in me to promise to marry you that night when you came to me; for I knew
then as well as now that I never could. But I loved you so, I had no strength. Oh, these last
happy weeks! I wonder if you have been so happy as I--so happy or so miserable, I don't know
which to say; for all the time there was a deadly sickness at my heart, and every night I cried
myself to sleep, and woke up crying; and yet I loved you so I could not but be happy in being
where you were. Remember always, Paul, that if I had not loved you so, I should have let you
marry an adventuress; for that is what I suppose you will call me now--you, who could not find
words tender enough for me. Yes, if I had loved you less, I would have been your wife, and
I would have made you very happy, just as we made so many poor people happy at our séances--by
deceiving them. But I could not deceive you.

"It is true that I have been meanwhile deceiving you, but it has only been from day to day.
I knew it was not to last, and I lacked strength to end it sooner. Think how dear your kisses
must have been to me, that I could endure them with the knowledge all the while that if you
knew whom you were kissing, you would spurn me with your foot.

"As soon as you began to urge me to name a day for our marriage I knew that the end was near.
You wondered why I cried so whenever you spoke of it. You know now. To-day Miss Ludington told
me that she intended to adopt me and leave me her fortune, so that I need feel under no necessity
to marry you if I did not wish to. Think of that, Paul! Can you conceive of any one so low,
so base, as to be capable of taking advantage of such a heart? As she was talking to me, I
made up my mind that I must go to-night.

"This evening, when I was helping her to bed (I have been so glad to do all I could for her;
it took away a little of my shame to see how happy I made her) she seemed so troubled because
I could not keep my tears from falling. When you read her this she will think her sympathy
wasted. And yet she will not think hard of me. She could not think hard of any one, and I am
sure I love her dearly, and always shall.

"Oh, Paul, my darling, do not despise me utterly! My love was pure; it was as pure as any one's
could be, though I have been so bad. I think my heart was breaking when you found me crying
on the piazza to-night. It was not only that I must leave you, and never look on your face
again, but that I must give over my memory to your scorn and loathing. 

SAN-JOAQUIN.

This mission was founded by the Jesuits at the White River and at a distance far removed site
it occupies, in a later period to 1700. In March 1796, under the pretext Baures the Indians,
who composed its population under the scheme administrators, were continually persecuted and
robbed by the Savages, was transferred to where found, ie on a small platform surrounded by
marshes and situated on the banks left a quarter of a mile of Machupo. The temporary buildings
of the village, which is up by a causeway, are of simple construction and a single floor. Otherwise,
nothing remarkably this mission, whose industry is not unlike the other missions. Point San-Joaquin
occupied is covered with mineral hydrated iron nuggets. Cultivated fields for the government, and
are a league of people inside a forest embrace a large space of ground where plants grow full
of vigor: banana, candy cane, cocoa, cassava and maize production are excellent. Half a league distant
the mission is a beautiful lake that is never dry. It is also to the northeast, After crossing a swamp
than a league wide, dry ground, very remarkable for the large amount of hydrated iron nuggets
that cover the ground and which could make a fat profit to the establishment of Catalan forges
forges or high, forest is populated all its contours. It is very strange that the Jesuits,
so very industrious, have not benefited from these mineral riches which would have doubled its resources,
and since a large drive to the advancement of those regions. These horizontal layers and to discovered,
studying two leagues, always surrounded by woods, as if nature purpose had been placed next
to mine, the means to practice their tillage.

The vegetation in the vicinity of San Joaquin is wonderful. Are trees in forests and a huge but
varied foliage: distínguense there among the palm fronds and other plants known, some beautiful
palms, called Rosary [1], to serve their coconuts to make accounts rosaries. This palm, whose trunk
is smooth and crowned with large law leaves gracefully arched, is without question one of the most
elegant. The ground is covered everywhere of magnificent ferns, while the branches of the trees
hold the stems grown in a kind of Palma christi, whose fruit is ten times higher than the ordinary
kind. Nótanse also on the edge of the woods two other species of palms, the very high and holds
its leaves in a single line divided to the two sides of the trunk, forming a beautiful green
range [2] and the other thorny [3] leaves similar, though smaller, to the Royal Palm Chiquitos.
Something closer to the mission, a wild fruit is grown the shape of a pear, which only eat when you're
black of ripe, they taste like the loquat, and their seeds are very analogous to those of the
pear.

;

The San-Joaquin population in 1823 was composed of seven hundred
sixty-six Baures Indians; but the devastation caused in 1832 by the
smallpox and Sarapion, the reduced number of six hundred and ninety
souls.

The village consists of five installments, known under the names of Paschiono, Caparebocono,
Tacarano, Abeabano and stumps.

The cattle of the state property amounted in 1830 to three thousand
eight hundred and eight heads, and the horse to three hundred thirty-five.

In that year the product of the mission was six hundred seventy dollars.

San-Joaquin roads to Exaltation.

To go to San-Joaquin San-Pedro, it follows (as stated in speaking of this mission) during Machupo
River through San-Ramon. To go in the rainy season to Exaltation, which is twenty-seven miles
in a straight line towards the west, it is necessary to cross a plain canoe cross in all directions
for several streams that are routed, one at River Machupo others to the Mamore. In dry times
it has been traveling the same path to the magnificent horse plains, but for the conveyance of goods
there is no other vehicle than the rivers, and path then extends one hundred and twenty leagues.
They got the first thirty Machupo River to its confluence with the item or Guaporé; next forty
east to its junction with the Mamore, which is necessary to rise, following his lengthy detours
by space of fifty leagues, to get to Exaltation. To learn more about these vehicles transport,
which are both the most beautiful rapids of the province, I will describe detail.

San-Joaquin leaving you sail for two days by the Machupo, descending
towards the north-northeast.

The banks of this river are trimmed with very dense forest, which reveal the effect of a active vegetation.
Savage appearance, but varied in these solitudes, not without a certain greatness. On one side,
dark green tint of the forests, the windings multiplied the river, the troops of monkeys, the
many dolphins that travel to two canoes, and the other the multitude of coastal and terrestrial
birds, encourage landscaping making it more interesting. The river, whose width is one hundred
yards, received tributes from a number of creeks help drain the flood plain. At noon the second
day passed by a site where both sides are covered with plantations grown and belonging to the
Indians San-Ramon and San-Joaquin. Machupo along the banks of the river are quite high over
a long space of course, a fact which should encourage the cultivation of its banks, being therefore
strange that is not thought to put less distance missions. A little more than two in the afternoon,
the confluence of the river has Itonama, under whose name continues running to meet the Machupo
Guaporé or ITENE. Then we discover towards the north above the trees, the western prolongation
of the Sierra's Diamond. From this starting point to show thousands of dolphins playing on the airwaves,
and transit Some leagues, are three beautiful species of palms, which are not found anywhere else
Part [1]. At about five river flows into the Iten, whose confluence would have been very desirable
to establish a population, given the great elevation of the left bank of Itonama, but certainly
not this have given rise to endless discussions between Spanish and Portuguese, on the limits
of their respective possessions, and is already referred to, eager the latter to retain its
monopoly of the navigation of these rivers, the Jesuits espulsaron trying to settle on its banks
[2].

Items which the river is a quarter of a mile wide at this point, and its majestic waters fairly quickly
by running between the islands of the most picturesque appearance.

On one of his banks, filled with trees, is a Brazilian place: to go to him, it is necessary
to fight upstream from the rivers Itenes é Itonama, we hit form a barrier force movable, an imposing
appearance. The post is occupied even a sergeant and four soldiers, they have orders not to let
any vessel without the consent of the commander the fort of Beira, which is located two miles
below. It is therefore essential writing advance to the trustee at the request of a pass in front
of the fort. Although the left bank owned any property to the Republic of Bolivia, the Brazilian
are considered the absolute masters of the whole river course. The soldiers guarding the post,
They are just clothes, and live in abject poverty, a handful of farinha pao is the ration given
daily for their maintenance, and every eight days, get some powder cartridges that hunt elk and
other wild animals whose meat they also serve food.

Fort Prince of Beira.

When you have achieved the specified permission, or descends Guaporé
Iten, admiring the picturesque in its margins, and the mountains that
dominate its left bank.

Two leagues, little more or less, presents a strong Prince of Beira on which the flag flutters
Brazil. This strong, square and surrounded by moats, it is also a bastion at each flank. Carboniferous
sandstone, consisting of the adjacent mountains, is the material used in its construction,
which has been well executed by a European engineer. His garrison, now reduced to thirty men.
It was this strong in its foundation, a prison for murderers, but today is intended to serve as the
condemned political exile, who are deprived of all kinds of resources in this secluded place
where they have yet some ease.

The little town of Santa Rosa, under the strong, and half a league originally was far towards the
west, is placed at this háacia the north and to less distance, being
composed single row of houses, whose inhabitants are all black and
mulatto, amounted to number four.

Dealing with this population to traffic with checkpoints, rising from Para, on the Madeira River
and then by the Guaporé, to Mato Grosso. These large boats, awnings and flat bottom are the size
of a sloop of twenty to thirty tons; and though in proportion to the depth of the river may
have more capacity, no number jumps of the Madeira River (which are presented whenever sailors
forced to withdraw to water to carry their boats overland with the help of round logs, placed
by way of wheels) makes its size is decreased. Otherwise this is the only difficulty that provides
the navigation of this river, which is enough depth everywhere to serve as a vehicle for steamboats
of the largest dimension.

Para Starting up the booths to sail or paddle to the mouth of the Madeira River, then to paddle only
to stumble at the first rapids, which is necessary to save the So I have said, renewing operation
more than twenty times, and in which much is lost time [1].

Having saved the last cachuela you paddle with great work to the confluence of Itenes and Mamore
rivers, and from this point, the fort of Beira, where the food makers to go up at once to Mato
Grosso. Be necessary to use a full year in the first leg and return of these expeditions, it is
preferred by ground lead directly Rio Janeiro Santos or value of merchandises, and although the distance
is traveled by mule is eight hundred leagues, while the economy continues to be considerable, so
that the booths, being reserved solely for the purpose of transporting a lot of volume or weight,
no are but three or four expeditions per year from Pará to Mato Grosso.

Around the fort of Prince of Beira forest villages are spacious, where palm trees stand out: the hills
immediately, placed in an amphitheater, is gradually rise towards the north, coming to be
quite far from its peak.

The ground remains entirely composed of sandstone, is barren, and only some pieces adjacent
to the river bank Itenes lend to agriculture and produce very good results.

On leaving the fort of Beira, the river Itenes or Guaporé [1] is about half a league wide;
clear water, but black sheen, are slowly down through forests and magnificent an savage aspect
rather than picturesque.

The nature in this place is too big and majestic for them to understand the details. Meanwhile,
very rarely be disturbed any traveler this beautiful loneliness that holds no more ornaments
than the rich vegetation of dark forests, because even the birds cross only by chance and without
ever stopping. No However, the uniformity of landscaping is occasionally interrupted by some garrisoned
islands trees, and blue mountains on the right bank, highlighting the distance on dark green
background of lush forests.

After having gone a long journey, rowing with all the speed of the current, halts at dusk, or
on the right bank where there is a very dense forest where the ground
should be excellent for farming, or on the left is filled with magnificent
forests.

The Brazilians attacked the fort are often very often these Parages by Indians Itenes inhabiting
both shores, and exploit every opportunity to strive for violence, weapons and iron that they
are absolutely necessary from the time of contact with the Spanish and Portuguese. These savages,
an independent and proud, have retained their entire freedom, preferring to be decimated every
day from over a century, rather than submit to the religious zeal of the Jesuits or the yoke
of the Spanish. Today are still what they were in the time of discovery, and its conservation
should independence to the close union that seems to reign among them.

This nation occupies all the angle formed by the confluence of the rivers Itenes and Mamore.
The tribes who live scattered component within a desert surrounded by huge impenetrable swamps
and jungles.

These Indians, whose customs are extremely unique, just ignore the middle civilization around
them, so clever and covertly slip their canoes in small tributaries of the Mamore and Iten, where
the Indians lurk mission or the soldiers of Fort Brazilian Beira, attacking the neglect, many times
for the shadows of the night, another attempt to procure the few tools.

On the second day, you see the river as wide and beautiful as the day before, but much more tortuous
and almost entirely rid of islets is seen among both trimmed its
left bank palm palm fronds, whereas on the right comes from too many
trees varied, a new species of palms, known as the Indian chuco and
most remarkable for its leaves, whose figure is equal to that of a
sun, it is composed of numerous leaflets it like a lightning start
from a central point to which they are sugetas [1].

Upon arriving at the angle formed by the reunion of the Mamore Itenes, a spectacle more impressive
is presented to the eye, which embrace one stroke both the majestic swing currents can easily compare
and admire the wonderful contrast [1].

The river Iten, which, as already stated, receives all the waters of the province of Mato Grosso
and northern and north-west of Chiquitos, and whose tax, dropping from some high hills, are gently
by a vast area of ​​plains, which have strong embankments, it retains
its waves almost always pure and never carries plant offal; to step
the Mamore, not only remains murky and muddy throughout the year,
but carries bubbling trunks, leaves, roots, and sometimes whole trees,
therefore, to have more of their resources on the high cerranías provinces
of Cochabamba, Mizque and Valle Grande, or on the north side of the
last slopes of the mountain, all its tributaries are formed and cross
the raging torrents plain with such rapidity that start passing along
the banks of one of its edges.

Results from this provision so different that the Itenes presents everywhere on its banks a
field highly desirable to establish stable and flourishing villages, while the banks Mamore not
give rise to the insurance of any kind, or even lend even for agriculture: reason why all missions
Mamoré only the banks involved some tax side.

Itenes river water after being reunited with the Mamore, run for a long area without mixing and
still retain their semblance particular.

From the point of reunion of these two great rivers is to make a voyage of six days canoe to
arrive at the confluence of the Beni River, which comes down from west to join on the left with
the Mamore, which carries on its majestic course under the name of river de Madeiras [1].
 This house of our individuality, which
has sheltered us in turn, having become incapable of being repaired for the use of subsequent
tenants, is to be pulled down. That is all."

Another time she said, "It is very strange to see people who dread death always looking for
it instead of backward. In their fear of dying once they quite forget that they have died already
many times. It is the most foolish of all things to imagine that by prolonging the career of
the individual, death is kept at bay. The present self must die in any case by the inevitable
process of time, whether the body be kept in repair for later selves or not. The death of the
body is but the end of the daily dying that makes up earthly life."

They were married in the sitting-room before the picture that had exerted so strong an influence
upon their lives. The servants were invited in, but there was no company. Ida wore a white
satin with a low corsage, and as she stood directly below the picture, the resemblance impressed
the beholders very strikingly. It was as if the girl had stepped down from the picture to be
married.

Ida had demurred a little to standing just there, which had been the suggestion of Miss Ludington.
She was not without a vague superstition that the spirit of the girl whose lover she had stolen
away would not wish her well. But when she hinted this, Miss Ludington replied, "You must not
think of it that way. What has a spirit like her to do with earthly passions? Your love has
saved Paul from a dream as vain as it was beautiful, and which, had it gone on, might have
gained a morbid strength and blighted his life. I like to fancy, and I know it is Paul's belief,
that the spirit of my Ida influenced you to come to us just as you came, that under her form
Paul might fall in love with you. In no other way but just this do I believe he could have
been cured of his infatuation."

Owing to the precarious condition of Miss Ludington's health, Paul and Ida would not consent
to leave home for any bridal trip. Cree-headed; to lose consciousness; but no, not lost.
He has just spent a minute ... But he feels after a horrible fear, the defense of nature, the
powerful self-preservation. To cheer said: "Unless had no choice, otherwise he should live.
" The looseness and confusion of the body grow so much, which collapses on the couch upside down.
Note large oppression, a desire to mourn ... With her handkerchief pressed tightly closed mouth
and eyes. One night, during their absence, a
fire, probably set by tramps, broke out in one of the empty houses of the village, and, the
wind being high and no help near, all the buildings on the place, including the homestead,
were completely destroyed. Knows that the poor can no longer be your wife, but the contempt yours
the crazy ... It is an unfortunate, that in the midst of yet retains
some modesty ...».

Augustine took two turns on itself, a sign of horrible despair, as
is the intoxication. 

When in the year 1832 I decided to open a new way of communication between the country of Yuracares
and Moxos province, began my journey by following ITINERARY. First lower Moleto the river, where I embarked
in a canoe which I had had built for this purpose. The waters of this river were very low, and
stumbled at every step in addition to the rapids it is full, for which reason we use three days
to arrive at the confluence of the rivers Icho far only three leagues.
 He never would
admit that Mrs. Legrand was a fraud, but always maintained that none but a truly great medium
could have materialized the vaguest of love-dreams into the sweetest of wives. You should not treat it bad, you
must not ensañarte with it because their pain is great ... believes that going to kill ... I told
you're not a Otelo and you do not give as strong. He has promised to go home and give you
rewarding loyal.

