"Did ye ever hear o' such a hardened, contrary critter, boys? It's awful to think on. Wal,
ye see that 'are's the way fellers allers begin the ways o' sin, by turnin' their backs on
the Bible and the advice o' pious parents. Now hear what he come to:--

     "'Then I murdered William More,
         As I sailed, as I sailed;
     I murdered William More,
     And left him in his gore,
     Not many leagues from shore,
         As I sailed, as I sailed.

     "'To execution dock
         I must go, I must go.
     To execution dock,
     While thousands round me flock,
     To see me on the block,
         I must go, I must go.'

"There was a good deal more on't," said Sam, pausing, "but I don't seem to remember it; but
it's real solemn and affectin'."

"Who was Capt. Kidd, Sam?" said I.

"Wal, he was an officer in the British navy, and he got to bein' a pirate: used to take ships
and sink 'em, and murder the folks; and so they say he got no end o' money,--gold and silver
and precious stones, as many as the wise men in the East. But ye see, what good did it all
do him? He couldn't use it, and dar'sn't keep it; so he used to bury it in spots round here
and there in the awfullest heathen way ye ever heard of. Why, they say he allers used to kill
one or two men or women or children of his prisoners, and bury with it, so that their sperits
might keep watch on it ef anybody was to dig arter it. That 'are thing has been tried and tried
and tried, but no man nor mother's son on 'em ever got a cent that dug. 'Twas tried here'n
Oldtown; and they come pretty nigh gettin' on't, but it gin 'em the slip. Ye see, boys, it's
the Devil's money, and he holds a pretty tight grip on't."

"Well, how was it about digging for it? Tell us, did you do it? Were you there? Did you see
it? And why couldn't they get it?" we both asked eagerly and in one breath.

"Why, Lordy massy! boys, your questions tumbles over each other thick as martins out o' a martin-box.
Now, you jest be moderate and let alone, and I'll tell you all about it from the beginnin'
to the end. I didn't railly have no hand in't, though I was know-in' to 't, as I be to most
things that goes on round here; but my conscience wouldn't railly a let me start on no sich
undertakin'.

"Wal, the one that fust sot the thing a goin' was old Mother Hokum, that used to live up in
that little tumble-down shed by the cranberry-pond up beyond the spring pastur'. They had a
putty bad name, them Hokums. How they got a livin' nobody knew; for they didn't seem to pay
no attention to raisin' nothin' but childun, but the duce knows, there was plenty o' them.
Their old hut was like a rabbit-pen: there was a tow-head to every crack and cranny. 'Member
what old Cæsar said once when the word come to the store that old Hokum had got twins. 'S'pose
de Lord knows best,' says Cæsar, 'but I thought dere was Hokums enough afore.' Wal, even poor
workin' industrious folks like me finds it's hard gettin' along when there's so many mouths
to feed. Lordy massy! there don't never seem to be no end on't, and so it ain't wonderful,
come to think on't, ef folks like them Hokums gets tempted to help along in ways that ain't
quite, right. Anyhow, folks did use to think that old Hokum was too sort o' familiar with their
wood-piles 'long in the night, though they couldn't never prove it on him; and when Mother
Hokum come to houses round to wash, folks use sometimes to miss pieces, here and there, though
they never could find 'em on her; then they was allers a gettin' in debt here and a gottin'
in debt there. Why, they got to owin' two dollars to Joe Gidger for butcher's meat. Joe was
sort o' good-natured and let 'em have meat, 'cause Hokum he promised so fair to pay; but he
couldn't never get it out o' him. 'Member once Joe walked clear up to the cranberry-pond artor
that 'are two dollars; but Mother Hokum she see him a comin' jest as he come past the juniper-bush
on the corner. She says to Hokum, 'Get into bed, old man, quick, and let me tell the story,'
says she. So she covered him up; and when Gidger come in she come up to him, and says she,
'Why, Mr. Gidger, I'm jest ashamed to see yo: why, Mr. Hokum was jest a comin' down to pay
yo that 'are money last week, but ye see he was took down with the small-pox'--Joe didn't hear
no mow: he just turned round, and he streaked it out that 'are door with his coat-tails flyin'
out straight ahind him; and old Mother Hokum she jest stood at the window holdin' her sides
and laughin' fit to split, to see him run. That 'are's jest a sample o' the ways them Hokums
cut up.

"Wal, you see, boys, there's a queer kind o' rock down on the bank 'o the river, that looks
sort o' like a grave-stone. The biggest part on't is sunk down under ground, and it's pretty
well growed over with blackberry-vines; but, when you scratch the bushes away, they used to
make out some queer marks on that 'are rock. They was sort o' lines and crosses; and folks
would have it that them was Kidd's private marks, and that there was one o' the places where
he hid his money.

"Wal, there's no sayin' fairly how it come to be thought so; but fellers used to say so, and
they used sometimes to talk it over to the tahvern, and kind o' wonder whether or no, if they
should dig, they wouldn't come to suthin'.

"Wal, old Mother Hokum she heard on't, and she was a sort o' enterprisin' old crittur: fact
was, she had to be, 'cause the young Hokums was jest like bag-worms, the more they growed the
more they eat, and I expect she found it pretty hard to fill their mouths; and so she said
ef there was any thing under that 'are rock, they'd as good's have it as the Devil; and so
she didn't give old Hokum no peace o' his life, but he must see what there was there.

"Wal, I was with 'em the night they was a talk-in' on't up. Ye see, Hokum he got thirty-seven
cents' worth o' lemons and sperit. I see him goin' by as I was out a splittin' kindlin's; and
says he, 'Sam, you jest go 'long up to our house to-night,' says he: 'Toddy Whitney and Harry
Wiggin's com-in' up, and we're goin' to have a little suthin' hot,' says he; and he kind o'
showed me the lemons and sperit. And I told him I guessed I would go 'long. Wal, I kind o'
wanted to see what they'd be up to, ye know.

"Wal, come to find out, they was a talkin' about Cap'n Kidd's treasures, and layin' out how
they should get it, and a settin' one another on with gret stories about it.

"'I've heard that there was whole chists full o' gold guineas,' says one.

"'And I've heard o' gold bracelets and ear-rings and finger-rings all sparklin' with diamonds,'
says another.

"'Maybe it's old silver plate from some o' them old West Indian grandees,' says another.

"'Wal, whatever it is,' says Mother Hokum, 'I want to be into it,' says she.

"'Wal, Sam, won't you jine?' says they.

"'Wal, boys,' says I, 'I kind o' don't feel jest like j'inin'. I sort o' ain't clear about
the rights on't: seems to me it's mighty nigh like goin' to the Devil for money.'

"'Wal,' says Mother Hokum, 'what if 'tis? Money's money, get it how ye will; and the Devil's
money 'll buy as much meat as any. I'd go to the Devil, if he gave good money.'

"'Wal, I guess I wouldn't,' says I. 'Don't you 'member the sermon Parson Lothrop preached about
hastin' to be rich, last sabba' day?'

