When she came to know, the skill of her attendants derived very little aid from her consciousness.
Her mind was unfavorable to her cure; and this, by the way, is a very important particular
in the fortunes of the sick. To despond, to have a weariness of life, to forbear hope as well
as exertion, is, a hundred to one, to determine against the skill of the physician. Margaret
Cooper felt a willingness to die. She felt her overthrow in the keenest pangs of its shame;
and, unhappily, the mother, in her madness, had declared it.

The story of her fall--of the triumph of the serpent--was now the village property, and of
course put an end to all further doubts on the score of the piety of Brother Stevens; though,
by way of qualification of his offence, old Hinkley insisted that it was the fault of the poor
damsel.

"She," he said, "had tempted him--had thrown herself in his way--had been brazen," and all
that, of which so much is commonly said in all similar cases. We, who know the character of
the parties, and have traced events from the beginning, very well know how little of this is
true. Poor Margaret was a victim before she was well aware of those passions which made her
so. She was the victim not of lust but of ambition. Never was woman more unsophisticated--less
moved by unworthy and sinister design. She had her weaknesses--her pride, her vanity; and her
passions, which were tremendous, worked upon through these, very soon effected her undoing.
But, for deliberate purpose of evil--of any evil of which her own intellect was conscious--the
angels were not more innocent.

But mere innocence of evil design, in any one particular condition, is not enough for security.
We are not only to forbear evil; virtue requires that we should be exercised for the purposes
of good. She lacked the moral strength which such exercises, constantly pursued, would have
assured her. She was a creature of impulse only, not of reflection. Besides, she was ignorant
of her particular weaknesses. She was weak where she thought herself strong. This is always
the error of a person having a very decided will. The will is constantly mistaken for the power.
She could not humble herself, and in her own personal capacities--capacities which had never
before been subjected to any ordeal-trial--she relied for the force which was to sustain her
in every situation. Fancy a confident country-girl--supreme in her own district over the Hobs
and Hinnies thereabouts--in conflict with the adroit man of the world, and you have the whole
history of Margaret Cooper, and the secret of her misfortune. Let the girl have what natural
talent you please, and the case is by no means altered. She must fall if she seeks or permits
the conflict. She can only escape by flight. It is in consideration of this human weakness,
that we pray God, nightly, not to suffer us to be exposed to temptation.

When the personal resources of her own experience and mind failed Margaret Cooper, as at some
time or other they must fail all who trust only in them, she had no further reliance. She had
never learned to draw equal strength and consolation from the sweet counsels of the sacred
volume. Regarding the wild raving and the senseless insanity, which are but too frequently
the language of the vulgar preacher, as gross ignorance and debasing folly, she committed the
unhappy error of confounding the preacher with his cause. She had never been taught to make
an habitual reference to religion; and her own experience of life, had never forced upon her
those sage reflections which would have shown her that TRUE religion is the very all of life,
and without it life has nothing. The humility of the psalmist, which was the real source of
all the strength allotted to the monarch minstrel, was an unread lesson with her; and never
having been tutored to refer to God, and relying upon her own proud mind and daring imagination,
what wonder that these frail reeds should pierce her side while giving way beneath her.

It was this very confidence in her own strength--this fearlessness of danger (and we repeat
the lesson here, emphatically, by way of warning)--a confidence which the possession of a quick
and powerful mind naturally enough inspires--that effected her undoing. It was not by the force
of her affections that she fell. THE AFFECTIONS ARE NOT APT TO BE STRONG IN A WOMAN WHOSE MIND
LEADS HER OUT FROM HER SEX!

The seducer triumphed through the medium of her vanity. Her feeling of self-assurance had been
thus active from childhood, and conspicuous in all her sports and employments. SHE HAD NEVER
BEEN A CHILD HERSELF. SHE LED ALWAYS IN THE PASTIMES OF HER PLAYMATES, MANY OF WHOM WERE OLDER
THAN HERSELF.

She had no fears when others trembled; and, if she did not, at any time, so far transcend the
bounds of filial duty as to defy the counsels of her parents, it was certainly no less true
that she never sought for, and seldom seemed to need them. IT IS DANGEROUS WHEN THE WOMAN,
THROUGH SHEER CONFIDENCE IN HER OWN STRENGTH, VENTURES UPON THE VERGE OF THE MORAL PRECIPICE.
THEY VERY EXPERIMENTAL, WHERE THE PASSIONS ARE CONCERNED, PROVES HER TO BE LOST.

Margaret Cooper, confident in her own footsteps, soon learned to despise every sort of guardianship.
The vanity of her mother had not only counselled and stimulated her own, but was of that gross
and silly order, as to make itself offensive to the judgment of the girl herself. This had
the effect of losing her all the authority of a parent; and we have already seen, in the few
instances where this authority took the shape of counsel, that its tendency was to evil rather
than to good.

The arts of Alfred Stevens had, in reality, been very few. It was only necessary that he should
read the character of his victim. This, as an experienced worldling--experienced in such a
volume--he was soon very able to do. He saw enough to discover, that, while Margaret Cooper
was endowed by nature with an extraordinary measure of intellect, she was really weak because
of its possession. In due proportion to the degree of exercise to which she subjected her mere
mind--making that busy and restless--was the neglect of her sensibilities--those nice ANTENNAE
OF THE HEART.

"Whose instant touches, slightest pause,"

teach the approach of the smallest forms of danger, however inoffensive their shapes, however
unobtrusive their advance. When the sensibilities are neglected and suffered to fall into disrepute,
they grow idle first, and finally obtuse! even as the limb which you forbear to exercise loses
its muscle, and withers into worthlessness.

When Alfred Stevens discovered this condition, his plan was simple enough. He had only to stimulate
her mind into bolder exercise--to conduct it to topics of the utmost hardihood--to inspire
that sort of moral recklessness which some people call courage--which delights to sport along
the edge of the precipice, and to summon audacious spirits from the great yawning gulfs which
lie below. This practice is always pursued at the expense of those guardian feelings which
keep watch over the virtues of the tender heart.

The analysis of subjects commonly forbidden to the sex, necessarily tends to make dull those
habitual sentinels over the female conduct. These sentinels are instincts rather than principles.
Education can take them away, but does not often confer them. When, through the arts of Alfred
Stevens, Margaret Cooper was led to discuss, perhaps to despise, those nice and seemingly purposeless
barriers which society--having the experience of ages for its authority--has wisely set up
between the sexes--she had already taken a large stride toward passing them. But of this, which
a judicious education would have taught her, she was wholly ignorant. Her mind was too bold
to be scrupulous; too adventurous to be watchful; and if, at any moment, a pause in her progress
permitted her to think of the probable danger to her sex of such adventurous freedom, she certainly
never apprehended it in her own case. Such restraints she conceived to be essential only for
the protection of THE WEAK among her sex. Her vanity led her to believe that she was strong;
and the approaches of the sapper were conducted with too much caution, with a progress too
stealthy and insensible, to startle the ear or attract the eye of the unobservant, yet keen-eyed
guardian of her citadel. An eagle perched upon a rock, with wing outspread for flight, and
an eye fixed upon the rolling clouds through which it means to dart, is thus heedless of the
coiled serpent which lies beneath its feet.

The bold eye of Margaret Cooper was thus heedless. Gazing upon the sun, she saw not the serpent
at her feet. It was not because she slept: never was eye brighter, more far-stretching; never
was mind more busy, more active, than that of the victim at the very moment when she fell.
It was because she watched the remote, not the near--the region in which there was no enemy,
nothing but glory--and neglected that post which is always in danger. Her error is that of
the general who expends his army upon some distant province, leaving his chief city to the
assault and sack of the invader.

We have dwelt somewhat longer upon the moral causes which, in our story, have produced such
cruel results, than the mere story itself demands; but no story is perfectly moral unless the
author, with a wholesome commentary, directs the attention of the reader to the true weaknesses
of his hero, to the point where his character fails; to the causes of this failure, and the
modes in which it may be repaired or prevented. In this way alone may the details of life and
society be properly welded together into consistent doctrine, so that instruction may keep
pace with delight, and the heart and mind be informed without being conscious of any of those
tasks which accompany the lessons of experience.

To return now to our narrative.

Margaret Cooper lived! She might as well have died. This was HER thought, at least. She prayed
for death. Was it in mercy that her prayer was denied? We shall see! Youth and a vigorous constitution
successfully resisted the attacks of the assailant. They finally obtained the victory. After
a weary spell of bondage and suffering, she recovered. But she recovered only to the consciousness
of a new affliction. All the consequences of her fatal lapse from virtue have not yet been
told. She bore within her an indelible witness of her shame. She was destined to be a mother
without having been a wife!

This, to her mother at least, was a more terrible discovery than the former. She literally
cowered and crouched beneath it. It was the WRITTEN shame, rather than the actual, which the
old woman dreaded. She had been so vain, so criminally vain, of her daughter--she had made
her so constantly the subject of her brag--that, unwitting of having declared the whole melancholy
truth, in the first moment of her madness, she shrank, with an unspeakable horror, from the
idea that the little world in which she lived should become familiar with the whole cruel history
of her overthrow. She could scarcely believe it herself though the daughter, with an anguish
in her eyes that left little to be told, had herself revealed the truth.  Her pride as well
as her life, was linked with the pride and the beauty of her child. She had shared in her constant
triumphs over all around her; and overlooking, as a fond, foolish mother is apt to do, all
her faults of temper or of judgment, she had learned to behold nothing but her superiority.
And now to see her fallen!  a thing of scorn, which was lately a thing of beauty!--the despised,
which was lately the worshipped and the wondered at! No wonder that her weak, vain heart was
crushed and humbled, and her head bowed in sorrow to the earth. She threw herself upon the
floor, and wept bitter and scalding tears.

The daughter had none. Without sob or sigh, she stooped down and tenderly assisted the old
woman to rise. Why had she no tears? She asked herself this question, but in vain. Her external
emotions promised none. Indeed, she seemed to be without emotions. A weariness and general
indifference to all things was now the expression of her features. But this was the deceitful
aspect of the mountain, on whose breast contemplation sits with silence, unconscious of the
tossing flame which within is secretly fusing the stubborn metal and the rock. Anger was in
her breast--feelings of hate mingled up with shame--scorn of herself, scorn of all--feelings
of defiance and terror, striving at mastery; and, in one corner, a brooding image of despair,
kept from the brink of the precipice only by the entreaties of some fiercer principle of hate.
She felt life to be insupportable. Why did she live? This question came to her repeatedly.
The demon was again at work beside her.

"Die!" said he. "It is but a blow--a moment's pang--the driving a needle into an artery--the
prick of a pin upon the heart. Die! it will save you from exposure--the shame of bringing into
the world an heir of shame! What would you live for? The doors of love, and fame, even of society,
are shut against you for ever. What is life to you now? a long denial--a protracted draught
of bitterness--the feeling of a death-spasm carried on through sleepless years; perhaps, under
a curse of peculiar bitterness, carried on even into age! Die! you can not be so base as to
wish for longer life!"

The arguments of the demon were imposing. His suggestions seemed to promise the relief she
sought. Hers seemed the particular case where the prayer is justified which invokes the mountains
and the rocks upon the head of the guilty. But the rock refused to fall, the mountain to cover
her shame, and its exposure became daily more and more certain. Death was the only mode of
escape from the mountain of pain which seemed to rest upon her heart. The means of self-destruction
were easy. With a spirit so impetuous as hers, to imagine was to determine. She did determine.
Yet, even while making so terrible a resolve, a singular calm seemed to overspread her soul.
She complained of nothing--wished for nothing--sought for nothing--trembled at nothing. A dreadful
lethargy, which made the old mother declaim as against a singular proof of hardihood, possessed
her spirit. Little did the still-idolizing mother conjecture how much that lethargy concealed!

The moment that Margaret Cooper conceived the idea of suicide, it possessed all her mind. It
became the one only thought. There were few arguments against it, and these she rapidly dismissed
or overcame. To leave her mother in her old age was the first which offered itself; but this
became a small consideration when she reflected that the latter could not, under any circumstances,
require her assistance very long; and to spare her the shame of public exposure was another
consideration. The evils of the act to herself were reduced with equal readiness to the transition
from one state to another by a small process, which, whether by the name of stab or shot, was
productive only of a momentary spasm; for, though as fully persuaded of the soul's immortality
as the best of us, the unhappy girl, like all young free-thinkers, had persuaded herself that,
in dying by her own hands, she was simply exercising a discretionary power under the conviction
that her act in doing so was rendered by circumstances a judicious one. The arguments by which
she deceived herself are sufficiently commonplace, and too easy of refutation, to render necessary
any discussion of them here. Enough to state the fact. She deliberately resolved upon the fatal
deed which was to end her life and agony together, and save her from that more notorious exposure
which must follow the birth of that child of sin whom she deemed it no more than a charity
to destroy.

There was an old pair of pistols in the house, which had been the property of her father. She
had often, with a boldness not common to the sex, examined these pistols. They were of brass,
well made, of English manufacture, with common muzzles, and a groove for a sight instead of
the usual drop. They were not large, but, in a practised hand, were good travelling-pistols,
being capable of bringing down a man at twelve paces, provided there was anything like deliberation
in the holder. Often and again had she handled these weapons, poising them and addressing them
at objects as she had seen her father do. On one occasion she had been made to discharge them,
under his own instructions; she had done so without terror. She recalled these events. She
had seen the pistols loaded. She did not exactly know what quantity of powder was necessary
for a charge, but she was in no mood to calculate the value of a thimbleful.

Availing herself of the temporary absence of her mother, she possessed herself of these weapons.
Along with them, in the same drawer, she found a horn which still contained a certain quantity
of powder. There were bullets in the bag with the pistols which precisely fitted them. There,
too, was the mould--there were flints--the stock was sufficiently ample for all her desires;
and she surveyed the prize, in her own room, with the look of one who congratulates himself
in the conviction that he holds in his hand the great medicine which is to cure his disease.
In her chamber she loaded the weapons, and, with such resignation as belonged to her philosophy,
she waited for the propitious moment when she might complete the deed.

CHAPTER XXXV.

FOLDING THE ROBES ABOUT HER.

It was the sabbath and a very lovely day. The sun never shone more brightly in the heavens;
and as Margaret Cooper surveyed its mellow orange light, lying, like some blessed spirit, at
sleep upon the hills around her, and reflected that she was about to behold it for the last
time, her sense of its exceeding beauty became more strong than ever. Now that she was about
to lose it for ever, it seemed more beautiful than it had ever been before.

This is a natural effect, which the affections confer upon the objects which delight and employ
them. Even a temporary privation increases the loveliness of the external nature. How we linger
and look. That shade seems so inviting; that old oak so venerable! That rock--how often have
we sat upon it, evening and morning, and mused strange, wild, sweet fancies! It is an effort
to tear one's self away--it is almost like tearing away from life itself; so many living affections
feel the rending and the straining--so many fibres that have their roots in the heart, are
torn and lacerated by the separation.

Poor Margaret! she looked from her window upon the bright and beautiful world around her. Strange
that sorrow should dwell in a world so bright and beautiful! Stranger still, that, dwelling
in such a world, it should not dwell there by sufferance only and constraint! that it should
have such sway--such privilege. That it should invade every sanctuary and leave no home secure.
Ah! but the difference between mere sorrow and guilt! Poor Margaret could not well understand
that! If she could--but no! She was yet to learn that the sorrows of the innocent have a healing
effect. That they produce a holy and ennobling strength, and a juster appreciation of those
evening shades of life which render the lights valuable and make their uses pure. It is only
guilt which finds life loathsome. It is only guilt that sorrow weakens and enslaves. Virtue
grows strong beneath the pressure of her enemies, and with such a power as was fabled of the
king of Pontus, turns the most poisonous fruits of earth into the most wholesome food.

But, even in the heart of Margaret Cooper, where the sense of the beautiful was strong, the
loveliness of the scene was felt. She drank in, with strange satisfaction--a satisfaction to
which she had long been a stranger--its soft and inviting beauties. They did not lessen her
sense of suffering, perhaps, but they were not without their effect in producing other moods,
which, once taken in company with the darker ones of the soul, may, in time, succeed in alleviating
them. Never, indeed, had the prospect been more calm and wooing. Silence, bending from the
hills, seemed to brood above the valley even as some mighty spirit, at whose bidding strife
was hushed, and peace became the acknowledged divinity of all. The humming voices of trade
and merriment were all hushed in homage to the holy day; and if the fitful song of a truant
bird, that presumed beside the window of Margaret Cooper, did break the silence of the scene,
it certainly did not disturb its calm. The forest minstrel sung in a neighboring tree, and
she half listened to his lay. The strain seemed to sympathize with her sadness. She thought
upon her own songs, which had been of such a proud spirit; and how strange and startling seemed
the idea that with her, song would soon cease for ever. The song of the bird would be silent
in her ears, and her own song! What song would be hers? What strain would she take up? In what
abode--before what altars?

This train of thought, which was not entirely lost, however, was broken, for the time, by a
very natural circumstance. A troop of the village damsels came in sight, on their way to church.
She forgot the song of birds, as her morbid spirit suggested to her the probable subject of
their meditations.

"They have seen me," she muttered to herself as she hastily darted from the window. "Ay, they
exult. They point to me--me, the abandoned--the desolate--soon to be the disgraced! But, no!
no! that shall never be. They shall never have that triumph, which is always so grateful a
subject of regale to the mean and envious!"

The voice of her mother from below disturbed these unhappy meditations. The old lady was prepared
for church, and was surprised to find that Margaret had not made her toilet.

"What! don't you mean to go, Margaret?"

"Not to-day, mother."

"What, and the new preacher too, that takes the place of John Cross! They say he makes a most
heavenly prayer."

But the inducement of the heavenly prayer of the new preacher was not enough for Margaret.
The very suggestion of a new preacher would have been conclusive against her compliance. The
good old lady was too eager herself to get under way to waste much time in exhortation, and
hurrying off, she scarcely gave herself time to answer the inquiry of the widow Thackeray,
at her own door, after the daughter's health.

"I will go in and see her," said the lighthearted but truehearted woman.

"Do, do, ma'am---if you please! She'll be glad to see you. I'll hurry on, as I see Mrs. Hinkley
just ahead."

The widow Thackeray looked after her with a smile, which was exchanged for another of different
character when she found herself in the chamber of Margaret. She put her arms about the waist
of the sufferer; kissed her cheeks, and with the tenderest solicitude spoke of her health and
comfort. To her, alone, with the exception of her mother--according to the belief of Margaret--her
true situation had been made known.

"Alas!" said she, "how should I feel--how should I be! You should know. I am as one cursed--doomed,
hopeless of anything but death."

"Ah! do not speak of death, Margaret," said the other kindly. "We must all die, I know, but
that does not reconcile me any more to the thought. It brings always a creeping horror through
my veins. Think of life--talk of life only."

"They say that death is life."

"So it is, I believe, Margaret; and now I think of it, dress yourself and go to church where
we may hear something on this subject to make us wiser and better. Come, my dear--let us go
to God."

"I can not--not to-day, dear Mrs. Thackeray."

"Ah, Margaret, why not? It is to the church, of all places, you should now go."

"What! to be stared at? To see the finger of scorn pointing at me wherever I turn? To hear
the whispered insinuation? To be conscious only of sneer and sarcasm on every hand? No, no,
dear Mrs. Thackeray, I can not go for this. Feeling this, I should neither pray for myself,
nor find benefit from the prayers of others. Nay, THEY would not pray. They would only mock."

"Margaret, these thoughts are very sinful."

"So they are, but I can not think of any better. They can not but be sinful since they are mine."

But you are not wedded to sin, dearest. Such thoughts can give you no pleasure. Come with me
to church! Come and pray! Prayer will do you good."

"I would rather pray here. Let me remain. I will try to go out among the hills when you are
all engaged in church, and will pray there. Indeed I must. I must pray then and pray there,
if prayer is ever to do me good."

"The church is the better place, Margaret. One prays better where one sees that all are praying."

"But when I KNOW that they are not praying! When I know that envy is in their hearts, and malice,
and jealousy and suspicion--that God is not in their hearts, but their fellow; and not him
with friendly and fond, but with spiteful and deceitful thoughts!"

"Ah! Margaret, how can you know this? Judge not lest ye be judged."

"It matters not, dear Mrs. Thackeray. God is here, or there. He will be among the hills if
anywhere. I will seek him there. If I can command my thoughts anywhere, it will be in the woods
alone. In the church I can not. Those who hate me are there--and their looks of hate would
only move my scorn and defiance."

"Margaret, you do our people wrong. You do yourself wrong. None hate you--none will point to
you, or think of your misfortune; and if they did, it is only what you might expect, and what
you must learn patiently to bear, as a part of the punishment which God inflicts on sin. You
must submit, Margaret, to the shame as you have submitted to the sin. It is by submission only
that you can be made strong. The burden which you are prepared to bear meekly, becomes light
to the willing spirit. Come, dear Margaret, I will keep with you, sit by you--show you, and
all, that I forget your sin and remember only your suffering."

The good widow spoke with the kindest tones. She threw her arms around the neck of the desolate
one, and kissed her with the affection of a sister. But the demon of pride was uppermost. She
withstood entreaty and embrace.

"I can not go with you. I thank you, truly thank you, dear Mrs. Thackeray, but I can not go.
I have neither the courage nor the strength."

"They will come--the courage and the strength--only try. God is watchful to give us help the
moment he sees that we really seek his assistance. By prayer, Margaret--"

"I will pray, but I must pray alone. Among the hills I will pray. My prayer will not be less
acceptable offered among his hills. My voice will not remain unheard, though no chorus swells
its appeal."

"Margaret, this is pride."

"Perhaps!"

"Ah! go with me, and pray for humility."

"My prayer would rather be for death."

"Say not so, Margaret--this is impiety."

"Ay, death!--the peace, the quiet of the grave--of a long sleep--an endless sleep--where the
vulture may no longer gnaw the heart, nor the fire burn within the brain! For these I must pray."

And, thus speaking, the unhappy woman smote her throbbing head with violent hand.

"Shocking thought! But you do not believe in such a sleep? Surely, Margaret, you believe in
life eternal?"

"Would I did not!"

"O Margaret!--but you are sick; you are very feverish. Your eyeballs glare like coals of fire;
your face seems charged with blood. I am afraid you are going to have another attack, like
the last."

"Be not afraid. I have no such fear."

"I will sit with you, at least," said the kind-hearted woman.

"Nay, that I must positively forbid, Mrs. Thackeray; I will not suffer it. I will not sit with
YOU. Go you to church. You will be late. Do not waste your time on me. I mean to ramble among
the hills this morning. THAT, I think, will do me more good than anything else. There, I am
sure--there only--I will find peace."

The worthy widow shook her head doubtfully.

"But I am sure of it," said Margaret. "You will see. Peace, peace--the repose of the heart--the
slumber of the brain!--I shall find all there!"

Mrs. Thackeray, finding her inflexible, rose to depart, but with some irresoluteness.

"If you would let me walk with you, Margaret--"

"No! no!--dear Mrs. Thackeray--I thank you very much; but, with a mood such as mine, I shall
be much better alone."

"Well, if you are resolved--"

"I am resolved! never more so."

These words were spoken in tones which might have startled a suspicious mind. But the widow
was none.

"God bless you!" she said, kissing her at parting." I will see you when I come from church."

"Will you?" said Margaret, with a significant but sad smile. Then, suddenly rising, she exclaimed:--

"Let me kiss you, dear Mrs. Thackeray, and thank you again, before you go. You have been very
kind to me, very kind, and you have my thanks and gratitude."

Mrs. Thackeray was touched by her manner. This was the first time that the proud spirit of
Margaret Cooper had ever offered such an acknowledgment. It was one that the gentle and unremitting
kindnesses of the widow amply deserved. After renewing her promise to call on her return from
church, Mrs. Thackeray took her departure.

Margaret Cooper was once more alone. When she heard the outer door shut, she then threw herself
upon the bed, and gave way to the utterance of those emotions which, long restrained, had rendered
her mind a terrible anarchy. A few tears, but very few, were wrung from her eyes; but she groaned
audibly, and a rapid succession of shivering-fits passed through her frame, racking the whole
nervous system, until she scarcely found herself able to rise from the couch where she had
thrown herself. A strong, determined will alone moved her, and she rose, after a lapse of half
an hour, to the further prosecution of her purpose. Her temporary weakness and suffering of
frame had no effect upon her resolves. She rather seemed to be strengthened in them. This strength
enabled her to sit down and dictate a letter to her mother, declaring her intention, and justifying
it by such arguments as were presented by the ingenious demon who assists always in the councils
of the erring heart.

She placed this letter in her bosom, that it might be found upon her person. It was curious
to observe, next, that she proceeded to tasks which were scarcely in unison with the dreadful
deed she meditated. She put her chamber in nice order. Her books, of which she had a tolerably
handsome collection for a private library in our forest-country, she arranged and properly
classed upon their shelves. Then she made her toilet with unusual care. It was for the last
time. She gazed upon the mirror, and beheld her own beauties with a shudder.

"Ah!" she thought, though she gave no expression to the thought, "to be so beautiful, yet fail!"

It was a reflection to touch any heart with sorrow. Her dress was of plain white; she wore
no ornament--not even a riband. Her hair, which was beautifully long and thick, was disposed
in a clubbed mass upon her head, very simply but with particular neatness; and, when all was
done, concealing the weapon of death beneath a shawl which she wrapped around her, she left
the house, and stole away unobserved along the hills, in the seclusion and sacred silence of
which she sought to avoid the evil consequences of one crime by the commission of another far
more heinous.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

SUSPENSE AND AGONY.

At the risk of seeming monotonous, we must repeat the reflection made in our last chapter,
that the things we are about to lose for ever seem always more valuable in the moment of their
loss. They acquire a newer interest in our eyes at such a time, possibly under the direction
of some governing instinct which is intended to render us tenacious of life to the very last.
Privation teaches us much more effectually than possession the value of all human enjoyments;
and the moralist has more than once drawn his sweetest portraits of liberty from the gloom
and the denials of a dungeon. How eloquent of freedom is he who yearns for it in vain! How
glowing is that passion which laments the lost!

To one dying, as we suppose few die, in the perfect possession of their senses, how beautiful
must seem the fading hues of the sunlight, flickering along the walls of a chamber! how heavenly
the brief glimpses of the blue sky through the half-opened window! how charming the green bit
of foliage that swings against the pane! how cheering and unwontedly sweet and balmy the soft,
sudden gust of the sweet south, breathing up from the flowers, and stirring the loose drapery
around the couch! How can we part with these without tears? how reflect, without horror, upon
the close coffin, the damp clod, the deep hollows of the earth in which we are to be cabined?
Oh, with what earnestness, at such a moment, must the wholly conscious spirit pray for life!
now greedily will he drink the nauseous draught in the hope to secure its boon! how fondly
will he seize upon every chimera, whether of his own or of another's fancy, in order to gain
a little respite--in order still to keep within the grasp of mind and sight, these lovely agents
of earth and its Master, which, in our day of strength and exultation, we do not value at one
half their worth! And how full of dread and horror must be that first awful conviction which
assures him that the struggle is in vain--that the last remedy is tried--that nothing is left
him now but despair--despair and death! Then it is that Christianity comes to his relief. If
he believes, he gains by his loss. Its godlike promise assures him then that the things which
his desires make dear, his faith has rendered immortal.

The truth of many of these reflections made their way into the mind of Margaret Cooper, as
she pursued the well-known path along the hills. She observed the objects along the route more
narrowly than ever. She was taking that path for the last time. Her eyes would behold these
objects no more. How often had she pursued the same route with Alfred Stevens! But then she
had not seen these things; she had not observed these thousand graces and beauties of form
and shadow which now seemed to crowd around, challenging her regard and demanding her sympathies.
Then she had seen nothing but him. The bitterness which this reflection occasioned made her
hurry her footsteps; but there was an involuntary shudder that passed through her frame, when,
in noting the strange beauty of the path, she reflected that it would be trodden by her for
the last time. Her breathing became quickened by the reflection. She pressed forward up the
hills. The forests grew thick around her--deep, dim, solemn, and inviting. The skies above
looked down in little blessed blue tufts, through the crowding tree-tops. The long vista of
the woods led her onward in wandering thoughts.

To fix these thoughts--to keep them from wandering! This was a difficulty. Margaret Cooper
strove to do so, but she could not. Never did her mind seem such a perfect chaos--so full of
confused and confusing objects and images. Her whole life seemed to pass in review before her.
All her dreams of ambition, all the struggles of her genius! Were these to be thrown away?
Were these all to be wasted? Was her song to be unheard? Was her passionate and proud soul
to have no voice? If death is terrible to man, it is terrible, not as a pang, but as an oblivion;
and to the soul of genius, oblivion is a soul-death, and its thought is a source of tenfold terror.

"But of what avail were life to me now? Even should I live," said the wretched woman, "would
it matter more to the ambition which I have had, and to the soul which flames and fevers within
me? Who would hearken to the song of the degraded? Who, that heard the story of my shame, would
listen to the strains of my genius? Say that its utterance is even as proud as my own vanity
of heart would esteem it--say that no plaint like mine had ever touched the ear or lifted the
heart of humanity! Alas! of what avail! The finger of scorn would be uplifted long before the
voice of applause. The sneer and sarcasm of the worldling would anticipate the favoring judgment
of the indulgent and the wise. Who would do justice to my cause? Who listen? Alas! the voice
of genius would be of little avail speaking from the lips of the dishonored.

"To the talent which I have, and the ambition which still burns within me, life then can bring
nothing--no exercise--no fruition. Suppose, then, that the talent is left to slumber--the ambition
stifled till it has no further longings! Will life yield anything to the mere creature of society--to
my youth--to my beauty--to my sense of delight--if still there be any such sense left to me?
Shall I be less the creature of social scorn, because I have yielded my ambition--because I
have forborne the employment of those glorious gifts which Heaven in its bounty has allotted me?

"Alas! no! am I not a woman, one of that frail, feeble sex, whose name is weakness?--of whom,
having no strength, man yet expects the proofs of the most unyielding--of a firmness which
he himself can not exercise--of a power of self-denial and endurance of which he exhibits no
example. If I weep, he smiles at my weakness. If I stifle my tears, he denounces my unnatural
hardihood. If I am cold and unyielding, I am masculine and neglected--if I am gentle and pliant,
my confidence is abused and my person dishonored. What can society, which is thus exacting,
accord to me, then, as a mere woman? What shame will it not thrust upon me--a woman--and as I am?

"Life then promises me nothing. The talent which I have, lies within me idle and without hope
of use. The pure name of the woman is lost to me for ever. Shame dogs my footsteps. Scorn points
its finger. Life, and all that it brings to others--love, friends, fame, fortune--which are
the soul of life--these are lost to me for ever. The moral death is here already. The mere
act of dying, is simply the end of a strife, and a breathing and an agony. That is all!"

The day became overcast. A cloud obscured the sunlight. The blue tufts of sky no longer looked
downward through the openings of the trees. The scene, dim and silent before, became unusually
dark. The aspect of nature seemed congenial with the meditated deed. She had reasoned herself
into its commission, and she reproached herself mentally with her delay. Any self-suggestion
of an infirmity of purpose, with a nature such as hers, would have produced precipitation.
She turned down a slight gorge among the hills where the forest was more close. She knelt beneath
a tree and laid down her pistol at its foot.

She knelt--strange contradiction!--she knelt for the purposes of prayer. But she could not
pray. It would seem that she attributed this effort to the sight of the pistols, and she put
them behind her without changing her position. The prayer, if she made any, was internal; and,
at all events it did not seem to be satisfactory. Yet, before it was ended, she started with
an expression of painful thought upon her face. The voice of her reason had ceased its utterance.
The voice of her conscience, perhaps, had been unheard; but there was yet another voice to
be heard which was more potent than all.

It was the mother's voice!

She placed her hand upon her side with a spasmodic effort. The quickening of a new life within
her, made that new voice effectual. She threw herself on the ground and wept freely. For the
first time she wept freely. The tears were those of the mother. The true fountain of tears
had been touched. That first throb of the innocent pledge of guilty passion subdued the fiend.
She could have taken her own life, but dared not lift the deadly weapon against that. The arm
of the suicide--was arrested. She groaned, she wept, bitterly and freely. She was at once feebler
and more strong. Feebler, as regarded her late resolution; stronger as regarded the force of
her affections, the sweet humanities, not altogether subdued within her heart. The slight pulsation
of that infant in her womb had been more effectual than the voice of reason, or conscience,
or feminine dread. The maternal feeling is, perhaps, the most imperious of all those which
gather in the heart of woman.

Margaret Cooper, however, had not altogether resolved against the deed. She only could not
do it there and then. Her wretched determination was not wholly surrendered, but it was touched,
enfeebled; and with the increasing powers of reflection, the impetuosity of the will became
naturally lessened. Those few glimpses along the roadside which had made her sensible to the
beauties she was about to lose, had prepared her mind to act in counteraction of her impulse;
and the event which had brought into play the maternal instinct, naturally helped the cause
of roason in her soul.

Still, with the erring pride of youth she reproached herself with her infirmity of purpose.
She resolved to change her ground, as if the instinct which had been awakened in one spot would
not everywhere pursue her. Time was gained, and in such cases, to gain time is everything.
Perhaps no suicide would ever take place if the individual would wait ten minutes. The soul
takes its color from the cloud, and changes its moods as often. It is one of the best lessons
to the young, to wait! wait! wait! One of the surest signs of strength is where the individual
waits patiently and makes no complaint.

Margaret Cooper changed her ground. The spot was a wild one. A broken ledge of rock was at
her feet, and just below it ran a dark, narrow winding footpath half-obscured by the undergrowth.
Here she once more proceeded to nerve her mind for the commission of the deed, but she had
not been there an instant when she was surprised to hear the sound of voices.

This was unusual. Who could they be? The villagers were not apt to stray from church-service
whenever a preacher was to be found, and there was a new one, and consequently a new attraction,
that day, for the spiritual hungry of Charlemont. The path below was seldom trodden except
by herself and an occasional sportsman. The idea that entered her mind was, that her purpose
had been suspected, and that she was pursued.

With this idea, she placed the pistol to her breast. She had already cocked the weapon. Her
finger was on the trigger. But the tones of another voice reached her ears from below. They
were those of a woman--sweet, musical, and tender.

A new light broke in upon her mind. This was the language of love. And who were these new lovers
in Charlemont? Could it be that the voice of the male speaker was that of Stevens? Something
in the tone sounded like it, Involuntarily, with this impression, the weapon was turned from
her own bosom, and addressed in the direction in which the persons below were approaching.
A sudden, joyous feeling touched her soul. The thought to destroy the criminal by whom she
had been destroyed was a source of exultation. She felt that she could do it. Both pistols
were in her hand. The pathway was not more than twenty paces distant; and her nerves, for the
first time, braced to an unusual tension, trembled with the new excitement in her soul.

The intruders continued to approach. Their voices became more distinct, and Margaret Cooper
was soon undeceived as to one of them being that of Alfred Stevens. She was compelled to lie
close, that she might not betray her position and purpose. The male speaker was very urgent;
the voice seemed that of a stranger. That of the female was not so clearly distinguishable,
yet it seemed more familiar to the unintentional listener.

Something of feminine curiosity now entered the bosom of Margaret Cooper. Crouching where she
was, she deposited the pistols at her feet. She remained breathlessly, for the slightest movement
would have revealed her to the persons who were now just below. They passed close beneath the
place of her concealment, and she soon discovered that they were lovers; and what their language
was, even if she had not heard it, might have been conjectured.

The girl was a very pretty brunette of Charlemont--a sweet, retiring damsel of her own age,
named Rivers--whom she knew only slightly. She was a shy, gentle, unpresuming girl, whom, for
this reason, perhaps, Margaret had learned to look upon without dislike or scorn. Her companion
was a youth whom Margaret had known when a lad, but who had been absent on the Mississippi
for two years. His tall and masculine but well-made and graceful person sufficiently accounted
for, while it justified, the taste of the maiden. He was a youth of fine, frank, manly countenance.
His garb was picturesque, that of a bold border-hunter, with hunting-frock of yellow buckskin,
and Indian leggings.

The girl looked up to him with an expression at once of eagerness and timidity. Confidence
and maiden bashfulness spoke equally in the delight which glowed upon her features. The bright
eyes and sun-burned features of the youth were flushed with the feeling of happy triumph and
assuring love. The relation of the two was sufficiently evident from their looks, even had
they no other language.

What were the emotions of Margaret Cooper as she looked down upon this pair? At first she thought,
as will most persons: "Surely there is nothing in nature so lovely as the union of two--fond,
devoted hearts. The picture is one equally of moral and physical beauty. The slight, fragile,
depending damsel, hanging in perfect confidence on the arm of the manly, lofty, and exulting
youth--looking up into his eyes in hope, while he returns the gaze with pride and fondness!
Unconscious of all things but the love which to them is life and all things besides, they move
along the forest way and know not its solitude; they linger and loiter along its protracted
paths, and see not their length; they cling together through the lengthened hours, and fancy
they have lost no time; they hear each other's voices, and believe that life is all music and
delight."

While Margaret Cooper looked down and heard the pleadings and promises of the youth, and beheld
the sweet emotions of his companion, engaged in a pleasant struggle between her hopes and misgivings,
she scarcely restrained herself from rising where she was and crying aloud--like another Cassandra,
not to be believed: "Beware! beware!"

But the warning of Margaret Cooper would have been unnecessary. The girl was not only free
from danger, but she was superior to it. She had the wholesome fear of doing wrong too strongly
impressed upon her by education--she had too little confidence in herself--was too well assured
of her own weakness--to suffer herself, even for a moment, to depart, in either thought or
deed, from those quiet but stern proprieties of conduct which are among the best securities
of the young. While she looked in her lover's face with confidence, and held his arm with the
grasp of one who is sure of a right to do so, there was an air of childish simplicity in her
manner which was wholly at variance with wild passions and improper fancies. While the hunter
maintained her on his arm, and looked down into her eyes with love, his glance was yet as respectful,
as unexpressive of presumption, as her own. Had the eyes of all Charlemont been looking on,
they would have beheld nothing in the conduct of either which could have incurred the censure
of the most becoming delicacy.

Keen was the emotion and bitter was the thought which worked in the mind of Margaret Cooper.
She looked on the deportment of that young maiden, whose intellect at another day she would
have despised, with envy and regret. Truer thoughts and feelings came to her as she listened
to the innocent but fond dialogue between the unconscious pair. The hunter was pursuing an
erratic life of enterprise and industry, then very common among the western youth. He had been
down upon the Mississippi, seeking his fortune in such adventures as make border-life in our
country something like the more civilized life of the middle ages. He had returned after a
long absence, to claim the bride whose affections he had won long before he had departed.

Never had knight-errant been more true to his mistress. Her image had been his talisman as
well against danger from without, as against the demon within. It had never left his mind,
and he now returned for his reward. He had returned to Charlemont just before the church service
had begun, and, being unprepared to go thither, had found no difficulty in persuading his sweetheart
to give the hour of morning service to himself.

Mixed up with his professions of love was the story of his wanderings. Never were adventures
more interesting to any auditor. Never was auditor more easily moved by the transitions of
the tale from tears to smiles, and from smiles again to tears. His risks and rewards; his defeats
and successes; his wild adventures by fell and flood--not perhaps so perilous as those of Othello,
but such as proved he had the soul to encounter the worst in Othello's experience, and maintain
himself as well--drew largely on the maiden's wonder and delight, increased her tenderness
and tremors, and made her quite as devoted to her hero as ever was Desdemona to her dusky chief.
As they went from hearing below, the manner in which the hunter concluded his narrative provided
a sufficient test for the faith of his companion.

"And now, Selina, you see all the risks and the dangers. There's work and perhaps trouble for
you to go down with me along the Choctaw borders. But if there's work, I am the man to do my
own share, and help you out in yours; and, if there's trouble, here's the breast to stand it
first, and here's the arm to drive it back, so that it'll never trouble yours. No danger shall
come to you, so long as I can stand up between it and you. If so be that you love me as you
say, there's one way to show it: you'll soon make up your mind to go with me. If yon don't, why--"

"But you know I do love you, John--" murmured the girl.

"Don't I believe it? Well, if what you say means what it should, you're ready. Here's my hand,
and all that it's good for. It can work for you and fight for you, Selina, and it's yours etarnally,
with all that I have."

The hand of the girl was silently put into that of the speaker. The tears were in her eyes;
but, if she made any other answer, it was unheard by Margaret Cooper. The rustic pair moved
from sight even as they spoke, and the desolate woman once more remained alone!

CHAPTER XXXVII.

SHAME AND DEATH--THE OATH.

Margaret Cooper was at length permitted to emerge from the place of her concealment. The voices
of the lovers were lost, as well as their forms, in the wooded distance. Dreaming, like children
as they were, of life and happiness, they had wandered off, too happy to fancy for a moment
that the world contained, in its wide, vast bosom, one creature half so wretched as she who
hung above them, brooding, like some wild bird of the cliff, over the storm which had robbed
her of her richest plumage.

She sank back into the woods. She no longer had the heart to commit the meditated crime. This
purpose had left her mind. It had given place to another, however, scarcely less criminal.
We have seen her, under the first impression that the stranger whose voice she heard was Alfred
Stevens, turning the muzzle of the pistol from her breast to the path on which he was approaching.
Though she discovered her error, and laid the weapon down, the sudden suggestion of her mind,
at that moment, gave a new direction to her mood.

Why should she not seek to avenge her wrong? Was he to escape without penalty? was she to be
a quiescent victim? True, she was a woman, destined it would seem to suffer--perhaps with a
more than ordinary share of that suffering which falls to her sex. But she had also a peculiar
strength--the strength of a man in some respects; and in her bosom she now felt the sudden
glow of one of his fiercest passions. Revenge might be in her power. She might redress her
wrong by her own hand. It was a weapon of death which she grasped. In her grasp it might be
made a weapon of power. The suggestion seemed to be that of justice only. It was one that filled
her whole soul with a triumphant and a wild enthusiasm.

"I shall not be stricken down without danger to mine enemy. For THIS--this, at least--strength
is allotted me. Let him tremble! In his place of seeming security let him tremble! I shall
pursue his steps. I will find him out. There shall be a day of retribution! Alfred Stevens,
there is a power within me which tells me you are no longer safe!

"And why may I not secure this justice--this vengeance? Why? Because I am a woman. Ha! We shall
see. If I am a woman, I can be an enemy--and such an enemy! An enemy not to be appeased, not
to be overcome. War always with my foe--war to the knife--war to the last!"

Such a nature as that of Margaret Cooper needed some such object to give it the passionate
employment without which it must recoil upon itself and end either in suicide or madness. She
brooded upon this new thought. She found in it a grateful exercise. From the moment when she
conceived the idea of being the avenger of her own wrong, her spirit became more elastic--she
became less sensible to the possible opinions upon her condition which might be entertained
by others. She found consolation, in retreating to this one thought, from all the rest. Of
the difficulties in the way of her design, it was not in her impetuous character to think.
She never once suspected that the name of Alfred Stevens had been an assumed one. She never
once asked how she was to pursue and hunt him up. She thought of a male disguise for herself,
it is true; but of the means and modes of travel--in what direction to go. and after what plan
to conduct her pursuit, she had not the most distant idea.

She addressed herself to her new design, however, in one respect, with amazing perseverance.
It diverted her from other and more oppressive thoughts. Her pistols she carried secretly to
a very distant wood, where she concealed them in the hollow of a tree. To this wood she repaired
secretly and daily. Here she selected a tree as a mark. A small section of the bark, which
she tore away, at a given height, she learned to regard as the breast of her seducer. This
was the object of her aim. Without any woman fears, she began her practice and continued it,
day by day, until, as we are told by one of the chroniclers of her melancholy story, "she could
place a ball with an accuracy, which, were it universally equalled by modern duellists, would
render duelling much more fatal than it commonly is."

In secret she procured gunpowder and lead, by arts so ingenious as to baffle detection. At
midnight when her mother slept she moulded her bullets. Well might the thoughts and feelings
which possessed her mind, while engaged in this gloomy labor, have endowed every bullet with
a wizard spell to make it do its bidding truly.  Bitter, indeed, were the hours so appropriated;
but they had their consolations. Dark and terrible were the excited moods in which she retired
from her toils to that slumber which she could not always secure. And when it did come, what
were its images! The tree, the mark, the weapon, the deep, dim forest, all the scenes and trials
of the day, were renewed in her sleep. A gloomy wood filled her eyes--a victim dabbled in blood
lay before her; and, more than once, her own fearful cry of vengeance and exultation awakened
her from those dreams of sleep, which strengthened her in the terrible pursuit of the object
which occasioned them.

Such thoughts and practices, continued with religious pertinacity, from day to day, necessarily
had their effect upon her appearance as well as her character. Her beauty assumed a wilder
aspect. Her eye shot forth a supernatural fire. She never smiled. Her mouth was rigid and compressed
as if her heart was busy in an endless conflict. Her gloom, thus nurtured by solitude and the
continual presence of a brooding imagination of revenge, darkened into something like ferocity.
Her utterance became brief and quick--her tones sharp, sudden, and piercing. She had but one
thought which never seemed to desert her, yet of this thought no ear ever had cognizance. It
was of the time when she should exercise the skill which she had now acquired upon that destroyer
of herself, whom she now felt herself destined to destroy.

Of course we are describing a madness--one of those peculiar forms of the disease which seems
to have its origin in natural and justifiable suggestions of reason. Not the less a madness
for all that.

Succeeding in her practice at one distance, Margaret Cooper changed it. From one point to another
she constantly varied her practice, until her aim grew certain at almost any distance within
the ordinary influence of the weapon. To strike her mark at thirty feet became, in a little
while, quite as easy as to do so at five; and, secure now of her weapon, her next object--though
there was no cessation of her practice--was how to seek and where to find the victim.

In this new object she meditated to disguise herself in the apparel of a man. She actually
commenced the making up of the several garments of one. This was also the secret labor of the
midnight hour, when her feeble-minded mother slept. She began to feel some of the difficulties
lying in the way of this pursuit, and her mind grew troubled to consider them, without however,
relaxing in its determination. That seemed a settled matter.

While she brooded over this new feature of her purpose--as if fortunately to arrest the mad
design--her mother fell seriously sick, and was for some time in danger. The duty of attending
upon her, put a temporary stop to her thoughts and exercises; though without having the effect
of expelling them from her mind.

But another event, upon her mother's recovery, tended to produce a considerable alteration
in her thoughts. A new care filled her heart and rendered her a different being, in several
respects. She was soon to become a mother. The sickness of soul which oppressed her under this
conviction, gave a new direction to her mood without lessening its bitterness; and, in proportion
as she found her vengeance delayed, so was the gratification which it promised, a heightened
desire in her mind.

For the humiliating and trying event which was at hand, Margaret Cooper prepared with a degree
of silent firmness which denoted quite as strongly the resignation of despair as any other feeling.

The child is born.

Margaret Cooper has at length become a mother. She has suffered the agony, without being able
to feel the compensating pride and pleasure of one. It was the witness of her shame--could
she receive it with any assurances of love? It is doubtful if she did.

For some time after its birth, the hapless woman seemed to be unconscious, or half-conscious
only, of her charge. A stupor weighed upon her senses. When she did awaken, and her eyes fell
upon the face and form of the infant with looks of recognition, one long, long piercing shriek
burst from her lips. She closed her eyes--she turned away from the little unoffending, yet
offensive object with a feeling of horror.

Its features were those of Alfred Stevens. The likeness was indelible; and this identity drew
upon the child a share of that loathing hatred with which she now remembered the guilty father.

It may very well be supposed that the innocent babe suffered under these circumstances. The
milk which it drew from the mother's breast, was the milk of bitterness, and it did not thrive.
It imbibed gall instead of nutriment. Day after day it pined in hopeless misery; and though
the wretched mother strove to supply its wants and soothe its little sorrows, with a gradually
increasing interest which overcame her first loathing, there was yet that want of sweetest
sympathy which nothing merely physical could well supply.

Debility was succeeded by disease--fever preyed upon its little frame, which was now reduced
to a skeleton. One short month only had elapsed from its birth, and it lay, in the silence
of exhaustion upon the arm of its mother. Its eyes, whence the flickering light was escaping
fast, looked up into hers, as she fancied, with an expression of reproach. She felt, on the
instant, the pang of the maternal conscience. She forgot the unworthy father, as she thought
of the neglectful mother. She bent down, and, for the first time, imprinted on its little lips
the maternal kiss.

A smile seemed to glimmer on its tiny features; and, from that moment, Margaret Cooper resolved
to forget her injuries, for the time, at least, in the consideration of her proper duties.
But her resolution came too late. Even while her nipple was within its boneless gums, a change
came over the innocent. She did not heed it. Her eyes and thoughts were elsewhere; and thus
she mused, gazing vacantly upon the wall of her chamber until her mother entered the room.
Mrs. Cooper gave but a single glance at the infant when she saw that its little cares were over.

"Oh, Margaret!" she exclaimed, "the child is dead."

The mother looked down with a start and shudder. A big tear fell from her eyes upon the cold
cheek of the innocent. She released it to her mother, turned her face upon the couch, and uttered
her thanks to Heaven that had sedecreed it--that had left her again free for that darker purpose
which had so long filled her mind.

"Better so," she murmured to her mother. "It is at peace. It will neither know its own nor
its mother's griefs. It is free from that shame for which I must live!"

"Come now, Margaret, no more of that," said the mother sharply. "There's no need of shame.
There are other things to live for besides shame."

"There are--there are!" exclaimed the daughter, with spasmodic energy. "Were there not, I should,
indeed, be desperate."

"To be sure you would, my child. You have a great deal to live for yet; and let a little time
blow over, and when everything's forgotten, you will get as good a husband as any girl in the
country."

"For Heaven's sake, mother, none of this?"

"But why not! Though you are looking a little bad just now--quite pale and broken--yet it's
only because you have been so ill; and this nursing of babies, and having 'em too, is a sort
of business to make any young woman look bad; but in spite of all, there's not a girl in the
village, no matter how fresh she may be looking, that can hold a candle to you."

"For mercy, mother!--"

"Let me speak, I tell you! Don't I know? You're young, and you'll get over it. You will get
all your beauty and good looks back, now that the baby's out of the way, and there's no more
nursing to be done. And what with your beauty and your talents, Margaret--"

"Peace! mother! Peace--peace! You will drive me to madness if you continue to speak thus."

"Well, I'm sure there's no knowing what to say to please you. I'm sure, I only want to cheer
you up, and to convince you that things are not so bad as you think them now. The cloud will
blow over soon, and everything will be forgotten, and then, you see--"

The girl waved her hand impatiently.

"Death--death!" she exclaimed. "Oh! child of shame, and bitterness, and wrath!" she murmured,
kneeling down beside the infant, "thou art the witness that I have no future but storm, and
cloud, and wrath, and--Vengeance!"

The last word was inaudible to her mother's ears.

"It is an oath!" she cried; "an oath!" And her hands were uplifted in solemn adjuration.

"Come--come, Margaret! none of this swearing. You frighten me with your swearing. There's nothing
that you need to swear about! What's done can't be helped now, by taking it so seriously. You
must only be patient, and give yourself time. Time's the word for us now; after a little while
you'll see the sky become brighter. It's a bad business, it's true; but it needn't break a
body's heart. How many young girls I've known in my time, that's been in the same fix. There
was Janet Bonner, and Emma Loring, and Mary Peters--I knew 'em all, very well. Well, they all
made a slip once in their lives, and they never broke their hearts about it, and didn't look
very pale and sad in the face either; but they just kept quiet and behaved decent for awhile,
and every one of 'em got good husbands. Janet Bonner, she married Dick Pyatt, who came from
Massachusetts, and kept the school down by Clayton's Meadow; Emma Loring married a baptist-preacher
from Virginia, named Stokes. I never saw him to know him; and as for Mary Peters, there never
was a girl that had a slip that was ever so fortunate, for she's been married no less than
three times since, and as she's a widow again, there's no telling what may happen to her yet.
So don't you be so downcast. You're chance is pretty nigh as good as ever, if you will only
hold up your head, and put the best face on it."

"Oh! torture--torture! Mother, will you not be silent? Let the dead speak to me only. I would
hear but the voice of this one witness--"

And she communed only with the dead infant, sitting or kneeling beside it. But the communion
was not one of contrition or tears--not of humility and repentance--not of self-reproach and
a broken spirit. Pride and other passions had summoned up deities and angels of terror and
of crime, before the eyes and thoughts of the wretched mourner, and the demon who had watched
with her and waited on her, and had haunted her with taunt and bitter mockeries, night and
day, was again busy with terrible suggestions, which gradually grew to be divine laws to her
diseased imagination.

"Yes!" she exclaimed unconsciously.

"I hear! I obey! Yet speak again. Repeat the lesson. I must learn it every syllable, so that
I shall not mistake--so that I can not fail!"

"Who are you talking to, Margaret?" asked the mother anxiously.

"Do you not see them, where they go? There--through the doors; the open windows--wrapped in
shadows, with great wings at their shoulders, each carrying a dart in his bony grasp."

"Lord, have mercy! She's losing her senses again!" and the mother was about to rush from the
apartment to seek assistance; but with the action, the daughter suddenly arose, wearing a look
of singular calmness, and motioning to the child, she said:--

"Will you not dress it for the grave?"

"I'm going about it now. The poor lovely little creature. The innocent little blossom. We must
put it in white, Margaret--virgin white--and put white flowers in its little hands and on its
breast, and under its head. Oh! it will look so sweet in its little coffin!"

"God! I should go mad with all this!" exclaimed the daughter. "were it not for that work which
is before me! I must be calm for that-calm and stern! I must not hear--I must not think--not
feel--lest I forget myself, and the deed which I have to do. That oath--that oath! It is sworn!
It is registered in heaven, by the fatal angel of remorse, and wrath, and vengeance!"

And again, a whisper at her ears repeated:--

"For this, Margaret, and for this only, must thou live".

"I must! I will!" she muttered, as it were in reply, and her eye glared upon the opened door,
as she heard a voice and footsteps without; and the thought smote her:--

"Should it be now! Come for the sacrifice! Ha!"

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

THE PALL UPON THE COFFIN.

The noise which arrested the attention of Margaret Cooper, and kindled her features into an
expression of wild and fiery ferocity, was of innocent origin. The widow Thackeray was the
intruder. Her kindness, sympathy, and unweared attentions, so utterly in conflict with the
estimates hitherto made of her heart and character, by Mrs Cooper, had, in some degree, disarmed
the censures of that excellent mother, if they had not wholly changed her sentiments. She professed
to be very grateful to Thackeray's attentions, and, without making any profession, Margaret
certainly showed her that she felt them. She now only pointed the widow to the corpse of the
child, in that one action telling to the other all that was yet unknown. Then she seated herself
composedly, folded her hands, and, beside the corpse, forgot its presence, forgot the presence
of all--heard no voice, save that of the assiduous demon whom nothing could expel from her
companionship.

"Poor little thing!" murmured the widow Thackeray, as she proceeded to assist Mrs. Cooper in
decking it for the grave.

The duty was finally done. Its burial was appointed for the morrow.

A village funeral is necessarily an event of some importance. The lack of excitements in small
communities, in vests even sorrow and grief and death with a peculiar interest in the eyes
of curiosity. On the present occasion, all the villagers attended. The funeral itself might
have sufficed to collect them with few exceptions; but now there was a more eager influence
still, working upon the gossippy moods of the population. To see Margaret Cooper in her affliction--to
see that haughty spirit humbled and made ashamed--was, we fear, a motive, in the minds of many,
much stronger than the ostensible occasion might have awakened. Had Margaret been a fashionable
woman, in a great city, she might have disappointed the vulgar desire, by keeping to her chamber.
Nay, even according to the free-and-easy standards prevailing at Charlemont, she might have
done the same thing, and incurred no additional scandal.

