Away they went, crossing some rough ground at an easy gallop, and Dick had his first experience
of the remarkable sure-footedness of the Arab horse in his proper environment. Moti moved with
the long lope of a greyhound, and used eyes and intelligence as well as feet. The pace set
by Abdullah on the uneven causeway seemed to be dangerous, and would have brought down any
animals but those accustomed to stone-strewn valleys or deserts in which patches of soft sand
alternate with bare rock. When the mainland was reached, Royson rode alongside his companion.

"Where are we going?" he inquired.

"To a village. It is not far distant. There we may obtain news."

They pressed on. Were it not for the nature of his errand, Dick would have enjoyed the ride
greatly, for the current of cool air was pleasing after the heat of Massowah, and Moti carried
him as though he were a feather-weight. But his heart was too care-laden to enter into the
spirit of the adventure. Of all the queer incidents of an eventful day this gallop into an
unknown land was the queerest. He could not help asking himself if he had done right. Yet the
reassuring answer came instantly. He had left indecision behind when he agreed to the Arab's
conditions, and it was surely better to try whatever fixed plan the other had in mind than
remain in Massowah, a prey to hopeless, purposeless agony. For he knew now what it would mean
to him if Irene Fenshawe were reft from his life, and the knowledge made his eyes blaze, and
sent the passionate blood coursing through his veins.

"Easily, monsieur. This is the place."

The Arab's strong, somewhat harsh voice, though pitched in a key not meant to reach too far,
brought Royson back to his senses. Imitating his guide, he tightened the reins and pulled Moti
to a walk. Then he made another discovery. They were on a Government road, which happened,
at that point, to have a smooth surface, and Moti stumbled disgracefully, for your true desert
Arab will fall over himself when he no longer needs to exercise his wits in order to keep his feet.

Behind a tumble-down hut a fire was blazing. Some men were squatted around a tripod which supported
a large iron pot. One was speaking, and even Royson's untrained ear recognized the measured
cadence of the story-teller. A rumble of laughter showed that the protest of some discomfited
rogue or some wise moullah's saw had just tickled the audience when Abdullah leaped from the
saddle and approached the circle.

"Peace be with you, brethren," said he, bowing gravely.

The story-teller broke off abruptly. One of the men rose and replied:

"With you be peace, brother, and the mercy of God, and His blessings."

This formula made it certain that the group near the fire were Mahomedans. "Es-salamu aleikum!"
is at once the test of the believer and the "Open, Sesame!" of the desert. Abdullah was sure
now of a hearing, sure even of counsel and assistance, provided that his interests did not
run counter to theirs.

Royson, dismounting for the sake of Moti, watched Abdullah's face in the flickering light of
the fire to learn whether or not he was receiving the expected news. He might as well have
sought inspiration from the starry vault overhead. But he was not long kept in suspense. After
the exchange of a few sentences with the man who had returned his salutation, Abdullah vouchsafed
a brief translation.

"Not many minutes ago a carriage passed this way. It took the road to the left, where it forks,
not a hundred meters distant. We must ride hard, monsieur, for the driver was flogging his
beasts. Perhaps we may have good fortune."

They were up, and away, thrusting into the darkness in a fast gallop. At the parting of the
roads they took the southern track, and the land almost immediately became hilly. They eased
the horses somewhat during a long upward climb, but a plateau, followed by a gentle descent
towards the shore, gave them a chance of mending the pace, and the wiry Arabs beneath them
seemed to know that the more quickly the miles were covered the less distance would they be
called on to travel.

On the level again, where the occulting beam of the Massowah lighthouse was hidden by the buildings
on the island, they unexpectedly came upon a disabled vehicle. It was tilted on the side of
the road in a way that suggested a broken wheel, and a man was holding two ponies which had
been taken out of the traces.

Abdullah pulled his steed almost on to its haunches, so suddenly did he draw rein. He pushed
close to the horse-tender, a Somali, and a fierce dialogue broke out, which ended in the wrathful
statement to Royson:

"This son of a slave says that this is not the carriage which passed me in the bazaar. I believe
he is lying, but what can I do?"

Dick, meanwhile, had ascertained that the conveyance was empty. His gorge rose at the thought
that Irene might be near him at that moment, yet prevented by some ruffian from making known
her presence. The belief was torturing; it impelled him to a deed which, in calmer mood, he
would have declared foreign to his nature.

Handing Moti to Abdullah's care, he went so near to the driver, a man of powerful build, that
he could look into his sullen face. With a quickness born of many a bout with the gloves, he
seized the Somali by the wrists, causing him to let go the ponies' bridles. Then, heedless
of straggles and oaths, he backed him a little space, threw him off his feet, and three times
whirled him through the air around his head. It was an exhibition of strength that forced a
cry of amazement even from Abdullah.

"Now tell him," said Dick, when the panting and terrified native was allowed to stand upright
again, "tell him that if he does not speak the truth, I shall take him by the ankles and beat
out his brains against the rocks in that same way."

"By the Holy Kaaba!" chuckled Abdullah, "that would be worth seeing."

He conquered his desire sufficiently to put the threat into blood- curdling Arabic, and the
Somali whined that he was a poor man, who only obeyed orders, but, if the god-like Nazarene
would spare his life, he was ready to tell all he knew.

"Speak, then, and quickly," growled Abdullah, "for the Effendi understands thee not, and he
may lose patience."

The driver stammered something which almost roused the Arab to excitement.

"Throw that dog aside, monsieur," he cried. "They are taking the lady to a boat. The place
agreed for the meeting is yet nearly a thousand meters in front. Let us see what our horses
can do."

They were off before he had finished speaking, but Abdullah smiled as he rode.

"Bismillah!" he muttered, "that is a fine trick. I must learn it."

On through the night they went, and happily the broken land receded here a little from the
shore, leaving the road straight and fairly visible.

They had gone half a mile or more, and Royson was beginning to fear that either the Somali
had been daring enough to mislead them or that Irene's guards had been warned by the noise
of their advance and were crouching behind a clump of reeds until they passed, when Abdullah
lifted a restraining hand, and slackened pace.

Though the night was clear, and neighboring objects were quite discernible, Royson failed to
pierce the further darkness. He strained his eyes, but could see nothing, while the Arab seemed
to have a sixth sense which warned him that there were others near. They pulled up, and listened.
Dick could hear only the labored breathing of their horses, yet Abdullah was evidently satisfied
that their long chase was drawing to an end.

"Bear to the left, monsieur," he whispered. "They are there, by the water's edge. When I give
the word, ride apart lest they fire at us, though they will hardly dare do that, lest we might
prove to be soldiers from the garrison. Are you armed?"

"Sufficiently," said Dick grimly.

He felt able to tear any one limb from limb who resisted him. Once sure of his quarry, he would
give short shrift. So they crept on, until the Arab shouted "Now!" and started off at a canter.
Dick realized that the circling movement was best, as it suggested an attack in force, so he
took a slight detour. He was closing in again before he perceived some irregular shadows, showing
black against the translucent film of smooth water. That sufficed. He thundered on ahead of
Abdullah, who, perhaps, thought it advisable to leave this final development in the hands of
a European. There was a scurry among a small knot of men on the beach. A sharp hail was answered
at a considerable distance from the sea. Royson rode with such furious speed that he now made
out a white-robed female figure struggling in the grasp of a man attired in the burnous and
hood of a coast Arab.

"Is that you, Miss Fenshawe?" he roared.

At the sound of an English voice three men scattered and fled like rabbits, but the fourth,
he who clutched the woman, set her at liberty and drew a long knife. He bellowed forth some
order, and another shout came from the sea. Then he poised himself ready to strike. Royson
was within a horse's length, leaning forward in the saddle, when he caught the gleam of the
uplifted weapon. At the same instant he recognized Irene, and saw that she was gagged, and
her hands were tied behind her back. But her feet were free, and she deliberately kicked the
Arab's ankle, thereby disconcerting his murderous thrust and nearly bringing him to the ground.

Then Royson's clenched fist fell like a sledge-hammer on his adversary's skull, and the man
collapsed with a broken neck. Moti, well named "the Pearl," seemed to play this sort of game
with the skill that a trained polo-pony shows in following the ball. He stopped almost of his
own accord, wheeled, and allowed Dick to lift the girl in his arms.

Abdullah, who did not attempt to pursue the others, had not failed to note the rapid approach
of a boat.

"Quick, now, monsieur," he said. "Make for the road!"

As they cantered off they heard some shouting in Arabic, and a few words of Italian, but Dick
was looking into Irene's eyes. He was conscious only that he held her in a close embrace. His
heart was thumping against his ribs. For one who had proved himself cool in an emergency he
betrayed all the symptoms of unusual excitement.

"Are you uninjured?" he asked, with a marvelous tenderness in his voice, while his lips were
very near to her swathed cheek.

She nodded. He fancied he caught a smile in her eyes. He did not know how lover-like was his clasp.

"We shall stop soon and release your bonds," he whispered. "Thank God I was able to find you."

Again he believed she smiled, but those beautiful brown eyes of hers seemed to fill with tears.
He set his teeth, and breathed hard, but he was too wary to jeopardize success by halting until
all danger of pursuit had disappeared. Then he pulled up, dismounted, and lifted Irene to the
ground. She was gagged so tightly that he had to exercise some care in cutting the knotted
strips of linen which bound her face and head. A piece of coarse sacking had been thrust into
her mouth, and she scarce had the power to utter a word when the brutal contrivance was withdrawn.

"Oh, Mr. Royson," she managed to gasp, "how can I thank you!"

"By not trying to talk until you feel better," said Dick. "There is a village not far away,
and we should at least obtain some water there."

He was bending over her wrists in his anxiety not to hurt her unduly while he severed a stout
rope, and he could not see the expression of sheer bewilderment which again mastered the usually
impassive features of Abdullah. The Arab had yielded to unwonted surprise when he saw Royson
use a man as flail, but the removal of the gag, and the consequent revelation of Irene's identity,
nearly stupefied him.

"May jackals defile my grave," he muttered, "but this is the wrong woman! Here have I, Abdullah
the Spear-thrower, been, befooled by a black slave in the caravanserai. What have I done? By
the beard of the Prophet, what shall I say if her capture was part of the Hakim Effendi's plan?"

CHAPTER X

THE CALM BEFORE THE STORM

When Irene was freed from her bonds she sighed deeply, uttered a little sob as though her soul
had fluttered to her lips, and sank into Royson's arms. In the ever-growing darkness he had
not realized earlier how acute was the torture she was enduring. She must have experienced
some difficulty in breathing, owing to the outrageous manner in which her mouth and nostrils
were covered. Yet, to render her quite helpless, her wrists were tied with such cruel force
that they became swollen and stiff, and her delicate skin was chafed until it galled beneath
the rope.

While Royson was carrying her on the high-peaked Arab saddle, the strain grew almost intolerable,
but her brave heart did not flinch under that exquisite pain. Though she could not speak, she
strove to reward him with a valiant smile, and even conquered the gush of tears that gave momentary
tribute to her agony. And now she lay in a dead faint, pallid and inert, while Royson said
bitter things about Alfieri. He blamed the Italian for all this mad business, and vowed harsh
vengeance on him if ever they met again. He was quite unable to help Irene. He had less than
the average man's vague knowledge of the right treatment to adopt under such conditions. He
imagined that the hands and face of a fainting woman should be bathed in water, and was about
to take her back to the shore when Abdullah intervened.

"It is nothing, monsieur," said he, with true Eastern nonchalance where the opposite sex was
concerned. "Her head and arms ache now that her bonds are removed. If Allah wills it, she should
revive presently. And we cannot remain here. Whether she live or die let us go on, in God's name."

Despite the flurry of his new predicament, the Englishman caught a hint of petulance in the
Arab's tone. It denoted a change of attitude that was all the more surprising when contrasted
with the man's previous eagerness to serve him. But there was sound sense in the advice thus
gruffly tendered. He managed to remount by tucking the girl's swaying form under his left arm.
Then he pillowed her head on his shoulder, and, letting the horse walk, strove to rub her hands.
Fortunately, Moti did not stumble. Perhaps the weight of a double burthen suggested the need
of care, but, whatever the explanation of the animal's excellent behavior, they reached the
broken-down carriage without accident. The driver had gone off with his pair of ponies, but
Abdullah, ruefully making the best of a perplexing situation, searched under the box seat for
the porous earthenware jar of water which is often carried there in the East. By good hap,
he found one, nearly half full.

"Here," he mattered Impatiently, "let her drink some of this, and pour the rest over her head
and hands. Then the cold air will freshen her. And be quick, monsieur! Those who follow will
not wait on ceremony."

Royson substituted a soaked handkerchief for Abdullah's drastic remedy, but he soon had the
satisfaction of seeing Irene's lips move. Then, after testing the water to make sure it was
drinkable, he gave her a mouthful, and, within a few seconds, she was in partial possession
of her senses. Nevertheless, for an appreciable time, her gallant, spirit flagged. She tried
feebly to brush the wet strands of hair out of her eyes.

"Why are we stopping here?" she moaned. "Please take me home. I am so tired--and thirsty--and
my mouth hurts me. Where is the yacht? What are we doing here?"

"I thought, she would recover soon," broke in Abdullah. "Now, monsieur, at all costs we must
reach the town. The hour grows late. Ride on!"

It was remarkable, to say the least, that one who was willing to face unknown odds in order
to effect the girl's rescue should be so desperately anxious now to get away from a rather
improbable pursuit. Yet again, the Arab's suggestion offered the only practicable course, and
Moti had to bear a double load while they slowly climbed the hill down which they dashed so
precipitately before they came upon the disabled vehicle. This time, Dick managed to seat his
fair partner more comfortably. He placed himself well back against the cantle, lifted Irene
across his knees, and drew her right arm around his neck.

Once more she sighed. Dick feared it was the preliminary to another collapse, until she whispered
in delightful confidence:

"I remember now, Mr. Royson. I suppose I fainted. How good you are to me!"

"Now, may Heaven be praised that you are all right again," breathed Dick fervently. "You gave
me the biggest sort of fright when you nearly dropped on the road."

"Have we far to go before we reach the hotel?"

"Several miles. It took us about three-quarters of an hour to overtake you, and we came at
a rare pace."

"I am sure I must be making your arm ache."

She tried to straighten herself, and Royson missed the warm fragrance of her hair against his
cheek.

"I really think you ought not to move," said he, with an affectation of brotherly solicitude
that did him credit.

"Well, if I am not wearying you," she murmured, and the pretty head nestled contentedly on
his shoulder. Then, it may be, she thought that if necessity demanded this lover-like pose,
she ought to redeem its literalness by conversation.

"Who is your Arab friend who speaks French so well?" she asked. "It was French I heard, was
it not? And how in the world did you manage to find out where I was taken to?"

"You must thank our companion for that. I happened to meet Stump near the telegraph-office,
and we saw a disturbance in the main street near the hotel. We hurried up, little imagining
that it affected you, and several precious minutes elapsed before we discovered that you were
missing. Mr. Fenshawe--"

"Ah, poor, darling grandad! I hardly dare ask you how he bore it. I grieved more for him than
for myself. You see, I knew it was all a wretched mistake. Those horrid men meant to carry
off Mrs. Haxton."

"I gathered as much from what Mr. Fenshawe said. Of course, he was very greatly distressed,
but, if matters go well with us now, you will be restored to him in another hour."

"I have no fear of anything when you are near, Mr. Royson. Something told me that long ago.
And that is why I was vexed with you for leaving me this afternoon."

 Dick's heart gave a great throb of joy, and his voice was somewhat
husky as he answered:

"I could not help myself. The Italian whom you and Captain Stump noticed in the street was
Alfieri. Mrs. Haxton saw him, too, and I would never have believed that terror could alter
a woman's face as it altered hers. She begged of me to find von Kerber, and warn him, and I
thought, perhaps foolishly, that if I obeyed her wishes it might bring about the very thing
you and I most desire."

Irene did not reply immediately. She felt unaccountably timid.

"It is stupid of me, but I do not quite follow your meaning," she volunteered at last.

"Well, you are anxious that this expedition should be abandoned, and I ought to return to England,
where I am in great demand, it seems, after some years of scandalous neglect."

"Oh!" she said. "Is that it?"

There was another pause.

"But the fact that Mrs. Haxton, and not I, should be sitting here so-- so confidentially--does
not explain how it comes about, does it?" she went on.

"I was so interested in what you were saying that I lost the thread of my story. We were listening
to an excited jabber of nonsense in the hotel--for instance, one of the negro servants said
you went away of your own free will--and wondering what on earth we could do, when this genii
of an Arab came to me in a mysterious way, and led me straight on your track. Shall we bid
him discourse?"

"Oh, please do. It is all so wonderful. I could see through the open windows of that hateful
carriage when we crossed the causeway and went off to the left into a wild country. I gave
up hope then. Your appearance on the beach was an actual miracle, to my thinking."

"Just one word before we tackle our guide," whispered Dick, bringing his lips as near hers
as he dared. "Though it was dark enough down there by the water, I saw you lash out at that
fellow with the knife at precisely the right moment."

"Don't, don't." she cried, shuddering, and lifting her eyes to his in a fleeting upward glance.
"I hope I shall soon forget those few awful seconds. I knew he meant to stab you, and I wanted
to scream, but could not. He seemed to be the leader of the party, and he flew into such a
rage when the wheel gave way that I really believe he was ready to kill me out of spite. You
knocked him down, didn't you? It maybe wicked, but I hope you hit him hard."

"Yes," said Dick, "I think your score is paid in that instance."

Her head was bent, and she could not see the grim smile on his lips. It was an odd thing to
remember at that moment, but he recalled the fact that his famous ancestor could fell a bullock
with his clenched fist.

Abdullah, when given the opportunity, was readier to ply them with questions than to answer
theirs. He said his name was "El Jaridiah," which was true enough, this being the title he
bore among his fellow- tribesmen. He also explained that he met Mulai Hamed, and happened to
see the direction taken by the vehicle when it dashed clear of the scrimmage in the street.
But he modestly disclaimed any special credit for his share in subsequent events, stating that
he had many friends among the European colony at Cairo, and was naturally willing to help a
lady against the thievish dogs who inhabited Massowah.

Yet Dick added a third to these two earlier subtle enigmas in "El Jaridiah's" characteristics
when he heard the Arab's unfeigned pleasure at the statement that it was not the lady actually
rescued, but a friend of hers, whom the thievish dogs aforesaid meant to carry off. Abdullah
then saw a path out of the thorny labyrinth which beset him. It was evident that in serving
Miss Fenshawe he had displayed his fidelity to Mrs. Haxton! The notion was so gratifying that
he made a suggestion which assuredly would not otherwise have occurred to him. When they reached
the camp-fire where they were supplied with such valuable information on their outward journey,
he would obtain some goat's milk for Madame, he said, and that would not only restore her strength
but go far towards alleviating the soreness caused by the gag.

He kept his promise. The milk was brought in a dubious vessel, but the girl vowed she never
tasted a more delicious beverage. They resumed their march, Irene's head dropped cozily to
the region of Dick's heart, and that wayward organ thumped again in the most alarming way.

Once the causeway was crossed, Abdullah called a halt.

"This road leads into the main street, monsieur," said he to Royson. "It is quite near. If
the lady is able to walk to the hotel, it will attract less attention than riding. Meanwhile,
I can take the horses to their stables, and hasten in advance to tell your friends that you
are safe."

They agreed instantly. Royson did not forget to pat the plucky little Arab that had carried
him to the Gates of Eden, and Irene said that if it were feasible she would buy Moti and have
him sent to England. And thus they parted from Abdullah, thinking to meet him again five minutes
later.

But their next encounter with the Spear-thrower was destined to take place under strange conditions.
His present intent was to slip away and seek an interview with Mrs. Haxton, as he had managed
to worm out the information that she was on board the yacht. The last thing he desired was
to be dragged into prominence. Though he had not been taught that a man might "do good by stealth
and blush to find it fame," he was specially anxious that his action of that night should not
be trumpeted forth in every ear.

Long before they gained the main thoroughfare, both Royson and Irene were conscious of many
prying eyes. Not a few passers-by yielded frankly to curiosity and followed them. The girl,
of course, was hatless. Her dress of fine muslin was of a style and texture seldom seen in
Massowah, and if the rare beauty of her face could excite comment in Hyde Park it would surely
not pass unnoticed in a small and semi-barbarous Red Sea port.

Royson, too, though his white drill uniform was familiar enough to the public, was out of keeping
with his surroundings. He towered among the puny Italians; not a stalwart negro nor gaunt Arab
in the throng could equal him in stature and physique.

So they both agreed in thinking that they were much more at ease when Moti was carrying them
along the dark road of the mainland than now while hurrying through the packed and dimly-lighted
streets. But the sensation they created in the bazaar was as naught compared with the overwhelming
effect of their arrival in the Grand Hotel of the Universe. Two officers of gendarmerie and
a round dozen of soldier- policemen became incoherent at sight of them. The hotel manager nearly
wept with joy. He tumbled up-stairs, tripping not once but several times, in his eagerness
to make known to the English milord that the Signorina Fenshawe had returned. The vestibule
filled in the most amazing way with a crowd that seemed to speak all languages under the sun.
Mr. Fenshawe rushed to the head of the stairs as soon as he grasped the meaning of the manager's
dramatic announcement, and a combined "Ah!" of gratification gushed from a hundred throats
when Irene flung herself into his arms. Clearly, this affair had stirred Massowah to its depths.
It would supply food for gossip during many a day. That long drawn-out "Ah!" was, in some sense,
a testimony to Abdullah's wisdom.

While Irene was sobbing her joy on her grandfather's breast, Stump crushed a broad track through
the ever-increasing mob until he reached Royson.

"I was bettin' on you from the minnit I missed you," he roared genially. "You're a fair wonder,
an' no mistake. By Gad, how did you manage it? The Governor has raised the whole crimson town,
I will say that for him. I don't know his lingo, but I rather fancy he swore to have a scalp
for every hair on Miss Irene's head if she didn't turn up afore daylight. Where was she? Who
took her off? The police are huntin' for your friend Alfie this hour an' more."

Stump's concluding item was at once gratifying and puzzling.

"How did they come to suspect him?" asked Dick, ignoring the rest of his commander's outburst.

"Mrs. Haxton put 'em on his track. You see, it was this way. I sent the jolly-boat's crew back
to the yacht with, orders that Tagg was to arm every mother's son on board, an' be ready for
action when Mr. Fenshawe gev the word. The old man wasn't half mad, I can tell you. I take
my solemn davy he'd have stormed that bloomin' fort to-morrow mornin'. Mrs. Haxton heard about
the trouble, an' wrote a note sayin' as how that Dago we saw to-day was at the bottom of the
whole dam business. She tole Mr. Fenshawe to demand von Kerber's release. He was the on'y man
who could handle Alfie, she said, an', wot between our commodore's threat to land an armed
force, an' the red-hot cables he's bin sendin' to London an' Rome, sink me if the Governor
isn't scared to death."

"Is the Baron at liberty, then?"

"Not yet. There's no knowin' wot might have happened if you'd kep away another hour or two.
The ole man has raised Cain, I can tell you. But, look here, I'm doin' all the talkin', an'
it ain't fair."

"Did no one tell you a few minutes ago that Miss Fenshawe had escaped and was hurrying here
with me?"

"Ax me another," growled Stump. Then he eyed Royson critically. "I know wot's wrong with you,"
he went on. "You're light-headed for want of a drink. Come out of it. Damme, you need lubricatin'!"

They went to the upper floor, and Mr. Fenshawe hurried to grasp Dick's hand.

"I will not endeavor to thank you now," he said brokenly. "My gratitude is too deep for words,
but--believe me, Mr. Royson--if I had lost my little girl--it would have killed me."

The hotel manager came to Dick's relief. With a face all wrinkled in a satisfied grin, he informed
them that "dinner was now served." The poor man had been waiting two hours to make that announcement,
and Irene's gleeful appreciation of this low comedy close to the night's adventures showed
that she was little the worse either in health or spirits. She would not hear of a doctor's
being summoned. She assured her grandfather that soreness of lips and wrists would not impair
her appetite, but she hoped that the dinner would not be utterly spoiled if it were delayed
two minutes longer--she had actually forgotten to bring forward the Arab who had helped Mr.
Royson to rescue her!

Yet, search as they might, El Jaridiah was not to be found. None knew him, nor had any news
of the girl's safety been received until she was seen in the vestibule. Though mystified, they
were far too excited to pay special heed to the circumstance at the time. Both Irene and Royson
believed that the man was detained by some slight difficulty with regard to the horses, one
of which, they knew, was borrowed. They said that surely he would come to the hotel ere dinner
was ended. But he came not. The only interruption to a lively meal was supplied by the Governor,
who showed very proper official horror when he heard the story of Irene's abduction, and saw
the evidences of the rough usage to which she had been subjected.

He was so urbane and apologetic, and promised such impartial punishment both for the persons
who inspired the outrage and for those who actually carried it out, that Mr. Fenshawe deferred
to the morrow the stern protest he meant to register against von Kerber's detention. It was
quite true, as Stump told Royson, that strongly-worded cablegrams were despatched to London
and Rome earlier in the evening. Diplomatic representations would certainly be made in both
capitals, and the yacht-owner felt that the local authorities would now leave matters entirely
to the Italian Colonial Minister.

So a truce was proclaimed. Before he left them, the Governor drank to Miss Fenshawe's health
in the best champagne that the Grand Hotel of the Universe could produce.

The four people rose from their belated meal at half past ten. A sailor came from the Aphrodite
in response to a message sent by Stump announcing Miss Fenshawe's return. The jolly-boat was
waiting to take them on board, he said, and they walked to the jetee, escorted by the whole
body of gens d'armes who had mounted guard at the hotel.

The long pull across the starlit waters of the harbor was peculiarly refreshing and restful
after the thrilling events of the day. Irene said with a laugh that it was almost worth while
being kidnapped for the sake of becoming a heroine, and Mr. Fenshawe yielded to the soothing
influence of the hour in expressing the opinion that he expected to hear of the Baron's unconditional
release early next day.

"By the way," said the girl, speaking to the boatswain, "how was Mrs. Haxton when you left
the yacht?"

"She was all right, miss, when I saw her about nine o'clock. She was just goin' ashore--"

"Going ashore!" For the life of her, Irene could not help the blank wonderment of that repetition.

"Yes, miss. An Arab kem for her."

"Are you sure?"

"Sartin, miss. It was about two bells when that craft hailed us--wasn't it, Bill?"

The sailor thus unexpectedly appealed to was taken by surprise. He nearly swallowed a quid
of tobacco before he answered:

"That's correct. It struck two bells just arter they shoved off."

"Do you know where Mrs. Haxton meant to go? I mean, was she making for the hotel?"

"I didn't happen to hear, miss. But Mr. Tagg was talkin' to the lady. P'raps he can tell you."
From the silence prevailing among her companions Irene was aware that they were as much astounded
by the man's statement as she herself. It was impossible to discuss the matter further in front
of the boat's crew, but the girl whispered, to Royson, who was sitting near her:

"Did you ever hear anything more amazing? She could not have missed us. What can be her object
in going off alone?"

"We may be able to answer those questions, and others, when we find out who it was that came
for her."

"Some Arab, the man says. How strange that Mrs. Haxton should be acquainted with an Arab in
Massowah!"

Mr. Fenshawe bent towards them.

"Do not forget," he said in a low voice, "that Mrs. Haxton may not have heard earlier of von
Kerber's arrest. I am inclined to think that he has managed to communicate with her in some
manner. A curious letter I received to-day may throw light on the problem. I was reading it
when that hotel man burst in on me with the news of your escapade, Irene. To tell the truth,
I have not given much thought to it since."

Royson was convinced that Mrs. Haxton, finding the game was up, had flown. But Tagg's version
of the lady's sudden departure did not lend color to this view. He stated that a shore boat
came alongside a few minutes before nine o'clock, and an Arab, who was its sole passenger,
stood up and said clearly:

"Me Abdullah. See Madame Haxton."

That, seemingly, was the full extent of the man's English. He repeated the sentence until Tagg
sent Miss Fenshawe's maid to tell Mrs. Haxton that an Arab named Abdullah was asking for her.

"She kem at once," said Tagg, "an' they began to parleyvoo as quick as you like--"

"They spoke French?" broke in Irene, with a sidelong glance at Dick. The far-fetched notion
which gripped him instantly had also occurred to the girl.

"Yes, miss. You can allus tell French by the mongin' an' bongin' an' tongin' that goes on."

At another time Irene would have hailed Tagg's subtle humor with glee, but there was an element
of deadly earnest in the history of the past few hours that kept her strictly to the issue.

"This Arab--" she said, "was he a tall, good-looking man with a striped hood to his burnous,
his outer cloak, you know?"

"That's him," agreed Tagg. "More like a fellow you'd see at Tangier than in these parts. You
know the sort of chap I mean, cap'n?"

"I do," said Stump. "Reg'lar stage Arabs, they are. Sort of Frenchified, with clipped whiskers."

"But please tell me what happened," cried Irene breathlessly.

"Well, miss, there ain't much to tell. They had a serious confab for five minutes, an' then
she tells me she's goin' ashore. 'Wot time will ye be back, m'am, an' I'll send a boat,' sez
I. 'I dunno,' sez she, 'I may be late, so I shall return in a native boat.' She axed your maid,
miss, to bring a wrap from her cabin, and she was gone without another word."

