UNCLE FRANK'S BOYS' & GIRLS' LIBRARY,

BY

FRANCIS C. WOODWORTH, EDITOR OF WOODWORTH'S YOUTH'S CABINET.

THE DIVING BELL;

OR,

PEARLS TO BE SOUGHT FOR.

With Tinted Illustrations.

BY UNCLE FRANK,

AUTHOR OF "A PEEP AT OUR NEIGHBORS," "WILLOW LANE STORIES," "THE DIVING BELL," ETC. ETC.

BOSTON: PHILLIPS, SAMPSON & CO. PUBLISHERS.

CONTENTS.

THE NAME OF MY BOOK      7 THINKING AND LAUGHING      16 THE SCHEMING SPIDER        31 GENIUS
IN THE BUD       46 PUTTING ON AIRS       64 "TRY THE OTHER END"        80 THE FOX AND THE
CRAB        97 THE GREEDY FLY         101 CAROLINE AND HER KITTEN         104 "I DON'T KNOW"
119 THE LEARNED GEESE        125 THE WRONG WAY            131 THE RIGHT WAY            135
THE OLD GOAT AND HIS PUPIL     140 ON BARKING DOGS       147

ILLUSTRATIONS.

THE FOX AND THE CRAB      (Frontispiece) VIGNETTE TITLE-PAGE       1 THE SPIDER'S INVITATION
30 THE SPIDER'S TRIUMPH        41 KATE AND HER TUTOR       72 MY PRETTY KITTEN       109 THE
LEARNED GEESE       124 THE OLD GOAT AND HIS PUPIL       141

I.

THE NAME OF MY BOOK.

The reader, perhaps, as he turns over the first pages of this volume, is puzzled, right at
the outset, with the meaning of my title, The Diving Bell. It is plain enough to Uncle Frank,
and possibly it is to you; but it may not be; so I will tell you what a diving bell is, and
then, probably, you can guess the reason why I have given this name to the following pages.

If you will take a common glass tumbler, and plunge it into water, with the mouth downwards,
you will find that very little water will rise into the tumbler. You can satisfy yourself better
about this matter, if, in the first place, you lay a cork upon the surface of the water, and
then put the tumbler over it.

Did you ever try the experiment? Try it now, if you never have done so, and if you have any
doubt on the subject.

You might suppose, that the cork would be carried down far below the surface of the water.
But it is not so. The upper side of the cork, after you have pressed the tumbler down so low
that the upper end of it is even below the surface of the water--the upper side of the cork
is not wet at all.

"And what is the reason of this, Uncle Frank?"

I will tell you. There is air in the tumbler, when you plunge it into the water. The air stays
in the vessel, so that there is no room for the water.

"Oh, yes, sir; I see how that is. But I see that a little water finds its way into the tumbler,
every time I try the experiment. How is that?"

You can press air, the same as you can press wood, or paper, or cloth, so that it will go into
a smaller space than it occupied before you pressed it. Did you ever make a pop-gun?

"Oh, yes, sir, a hundred times."

Well, when you send the wad out of the pop-gun, you do it by pressing the air inside the tube.
Now if your tumbler was a hundred or a thousand times as large, the air would prevent the water
from coming in, just as it does in this instance. Suppose I had dropped a purse full of gold
into a very deep river, and it had sunk to the bottom. Suppose I could not get it in any other
way but by going down to the bottom after it. I could go down to that depth, and live there
for some time, by means of a diving bell made large enough to hold me, precisely in the same
way that a bird might go down to the bottom of a tub of water, in a tumbler, and stand there
with the water hardly over his feet. There is a good deal of machinery about a diving bell,
it is true. But I need not take up much time in describing it. It is necessary for the man
to breathe, of course, while he is in the diving bell; and as the air it contains is soon rendered
impure by breathing, fresh air must be introduced into the bell by means of a pump, or in some
other way. I am not very familiar with the necessary machinery, to tell the truth. I never
explored the bottom of a river in this way, and I think it will be a long time before I make
such a voyage.

The diving bell has been used for a good many useful purposes--to lay the foundations of docks
and the piers of bridges; to collect pearls at Ceylon, and coral at other places.

I am not sure but the diving bell is getting somewhat out of use now. People have found out
another way of groping along on the bottom of rivers and seas. They do it frequently, I believe,
by means of a kind of armor made of India rubber. But so far as my book is concerned, it is
of no consequence whether the diving bell is out of use or not. I shall use the title, at all
events.

If, after my account of the diving bell, you still ask why I choose to give such a name to
the budget I have prepared for you, I can answer your question very easily.

I think you will find something worth looking at in the budget--not pearls, or pieces of coral,
or lost treasures, exactly, but still something which will please you, and something which,
when you get hold of it, will be worth keeping and laying up in some snug corner of your memory
box. I say when you get hold of it; for the valuable things I have for you do not all lie on
the surface. You will have to search for them a little. That is, you will have to think. When
you have read one of my stories, or fables, you may find it necessary to stop, and ask yourself
"What does Uncle Frank mean by all this?" In other words, you will have to use the diving bell,
and see if you can't hunt up something in the story or the fable, which will be useful to you,
and which will make you wiser and better. Now you see why I have called my book The Diving
Bell, don't you?

II.

THINKING AND LAUGHING.

It is Uncle Frank's notion, that it is a good thing to laugh, but a better thing to think.
A great many people, however, old as well as young, and young as well as old, live and die
without thinking much. They lose three quarters of the benefit they ought to get from reading,
and from what they see and learn as they go through the world, by never diving below the surface
of things. I don't suppose it is so with you. I hope not, at all events. If it is so, then
you had better shut up this book, and pass it over to some young friend of yours, who has learned
to think, and who loves to read books that will help him about thinking. No, on the whole,
you needn't do any such thing. Just read the book--read it through. Perhaps you will get a
taste for such reading, while you are going through the book.

I must tell you an anecdote just here. You will not refuse to read that, at any rate.

Not long ago I was in a book store, looking over some new books which I saw on the counter,
when a fine-looking boy, who appeared to be about nine years old, came in. He had a shilling
in his hand, and said he wanted to buy a book.

"But what book do you want?" one of the clerks asked.

The boy could not tell what it was exactly. But it was a "funny book"--he was sure of that--and
it cost a shilling.

Well, it finally turned out that the book which the little fellow wanted was a comic almanac--a
book filled with miserable pictures--pictures of men and beasts twisted into all sorts of odd
shapes--and vulgar jokes, and scraps of low wit.

"Will you let me look at it?" I asked the little boy as the clerk handed the book to him.

"Yes, sir," said he.

I took the almanac, and turned over some of its leaves. There was not a particle of information
in the book, except what related to the sun, and moon, and stars, and that formed but a small
portion of the volume. "My son," said I, pleasantly, "what do you buy this book for?"

"To make me laugh," said he.

"But is that all you read books for--to find something to laugh at?" I inquired.

"No, sir," he replied, "but then this book is so funny. Giles Manly has got one, and"--he hesitated.

