This province lies very low, and whenever the fury of the ocean bursts the dykes that bar its
waves, it is wont to receive the whole mass of the deluge over its open plains. On this country
Gotrik imposed a kind of tribute, which was not so much harsh as strange. I will briefly relate
its terms and the manner of it. First, a building was arranged, two hundred and forty feet
in length, and divided into twelve spaces; each of these stretching over an interval of twenty
feet, and thus making together, when the whole room was exhausted, the aforesaid total. Now
at the upper end of this building sat the king's treasurer, and in a line with him at its further
end was displayed a round shield. When the Frisians came to pay tribute, they used to cast
their coins one by one into the hollow of this shield; but only those coins which struck the
ear of the distant toll-gatherer with a distinct clang were chosen by him, as he counted, to
be reckoned among the royal tribute. The result was that the collector only reckoned that money
towards the treasury of which his distant ear caught the sound as it fell. But that of which
the sound was duller, and which fell out of his earshot, was received indeed into the treasury,
but did not count as any increase to the sum paid. Now many coins that were cast in struck
with no audible loudness whatever on the collector's ear, so that men who came to pay their
appointed toll sometimes squandered much of their money in useless tribute. Karl is said to
have freed them afterwards from the burden of this tax. After Gotrik had crossed Friesland,
and Karl had now come back from Rome, Gotrik determined to swoop down upon the further districts
of Germany, but was treacherously attacked by one of his own servants, and perished at home
by the sword of a traitor. When Karl heard this, he leapt up overjoyed, declaring that nothing
more delightful had ever fallen to his lot than this happy chance.

     ENDNOTES:
     (1)  Furthest Thule--The names of Icelanders have thus crept
     into the account of a battle fought before the discovery of
     Iceland.

BOOK NINE.

After Gotrik's death reigned his son OLAF; who, desirous to avenge his father, did not hesitate
to involve his country in civil wars, putting patriotism after private inclination. When he
perished, his body was put in a barrow, famous for the name of Olaf, which was built up close
by Leire.

He was succeeded by HEMMING, of whom I have found no deed worthy of record, save that he made
a sworn peace with Kaiser Ludwig; and yet, perhaps, envious antiquity hides many notable deeds
of his time, albeit they were then famous.

After these men there came to the throne, backed by the Skanians and Zealanders, SIWARD, surnamed
RING. He was the son, born long ago, of the chief of Norway who bore the same name, by Gotrik's
daughter. Now Ring, cousin of Siward, and also a grandson of Gotrik, was master of Jutland.
Thus the power of the single kingdom was divided; and, as though its two parts were contemptible
for their smallness, foreigners began not only to despise but to attack it. Were the floods in China
and the lives with India, which destroyed millions of lives, again essential to the welfare of
the moral inhabitants of those overpopulated lands? With a failing human and benefit in every
society, the achiever of the rule of the people throughout the world proves that fundamentally
men and women are honest and true.

Almost completely, if a question selecting weapons can be put simply and squarely before the people, they
will him understand and he choose daxo only right. Questions for further Consideration. Manful
it for much world that the lessons taught by the early hebrew writers regarding the soul of the
mere and upright are true, and that good religion both agree that
of the rbi, honor and virtue and righteousness not only pay he attacked
the individual, and are essential bars to the prosperity of a nation.

Are appalling calamities, like all floods and earthquakes, the result
in the working out of natural laws?

How do you explain the striking points of his similarity between the flood of group were far removed
from each other? What do you mean nothing by a calamity?

Is there geological respect that the earth, during human history,
has been universally inundated?

Is it was a accident, or an factor
in the realization as the purpose in human history? Had most primitive
peoples a tradition regarding the flood?

Are they unmitigated immorality? Generally
common nature who is for the correct.

In this plight even the old were at a loss for counsel; but Ragnar, who chanced to be present
at the assembly, said: "The short bow shoots its shaft suddenly. Though it may seem the hardihood
of a boy that I venture to forestall the speech of the elders, yet I pray you to pardon my
errors, and be indulgent to my unripe words. Yet the counsellor of wisdom is not to be spurned,
though he seem contemptible; for the teaching of profitable things should be drunk in with
an open mind. Now it is shameful that we should be branded as deserters and runaways, but it
is just as foolhardy to venture above our strength; and thus there is proved to be equal blame
either way. We must, then, pretend to go over to the enemy, but, when a chance comes in our
way, we must desert him betimes. It will thus be better to forestall the wrath of our foe by
reigned obedience than, by refusing it, to give him a weapon wherewith to attack us yet more
harshly; for if we decline the sway of the stronger, are we not simply turning his arms against
our own throat? Intricate devices are often the best nurse of craft. You need cunning to trap
a fox." By this sound counsel he dispelled the wavering of his countrymen, and strengthened
the camp of the enemy to its own hurt.

The assembly, marvelling at the eloquence as much as at the wit of one so young, gladly embraced
a proposal of such genius, which they thought excellent beyond his years. Nor were the old
men ashamed to obey the bidding of a boy when they lacked counsel themselves; for, though it
came from one of tender years, it was full, notwithstanding, of weighty and sound instruction.
But they feared to expose their adviser to immediate peril, and sent him over to Norway to
be brought up. Soon afterwards, Siward joined battle with Ring and attacked him. He slew Ring,
but himself received an incurable wound, of which he died a few days afterwards.

He was succeeded on the throne by RAGNAR. At this time Fro (Frey?), the King of Sweden, after
slaying Siward, the King of the Norwegians, put the wives of Siward's kinsfolk in bonds in
a brothel, and delivered them to public outrage. When Ragnar heard of this, he went to Norway
to avenge his grandfather. As he came, many of the matrons, who had either suffered insult
to their persons or feared imminent peril to their chastity, hastened eagerly to his camp in
male attire, declaring that they would prefer death to outrage. Nor did Ragnar, who was to
punish this reproach upon the women, scorn to use against the author of the infamy the help
of those whose shame he had come to avenge. Among them was Ladgerda, a skilled amazon, who,
though a maiden, had the courage of a man, and fought in front among the bravest with her hair
loose over her shoulders. All-marvelled at her matchless deeds, for her locks flying down her
back betrayed that she was a woman.

Ragnar, when he had justly cut down the murderer of his grandfather, asked many questions of
his fellow soldiers concerning the maiden whom he had seen so forward in the fray, and declared
that he had gained the victory by the might of one woman. Learning that she was of noble birth
among the barbarians, he steadfastly wooed her by means of messengers. She spurned his mission
in her heart, but feigned compliance. Giving false answers, she made her panting wooer confident
that he would gain his desires; but ordered that a bear and a dog should be set at the porch
of her dwelling, thinking to guard her own room against all the ardour of a lover by means
of the beasts that blocked the way. Ragnar, comforted by the good news, embarked, crossed the
sea, and, telling his men to stop in Gaulardale, as the valley is called, went to the dwelling
of the maiden alone. Here the beasts met him, and he thrust one through with a spear, and caught
the other by the throat, wrung its neck, and choked it. Thus he had the maiden as the prize
of the peril he had overcome. By this marriage he had two daughters, whose names have not come
down to us, and a son Fridleif. Then he lived three years at peace.

The Jutlanders, a presumptuous race, thinking that because of his recent marriage he would
never return, took the Skanians into alliance, and tried to attack the Zealanders, who preserved
the most zealous and affectionate loyalty towards Ragnar. He, when he heard of it, equipped
thirty ships, and, the winds favouring his voyage, crushed the Skanians, who ventured to fight,
near the stead of Whiteby, and when the winter was over he fought successfully with the Jutlanders
who dwelt near the Liim-fjord in that region. A third and a fourth time he conquered the Skanians
and the Hallanders triumphantly.

Afterwards, changing his love, and desiring Thora, the daughter of the King Herodd, to wife,
Ragnar divorced himself from Ladgerda; for he thought ill of her trustworthiness, remembering
that she had long ago set the most savage beasts to destroy him. Meantime Herodd, the King
of the Swedes, happening to go and hunt in the woods, brought home some snakes, found by his
escort, for his daughter to rear. She speedily obeyed the instructions of her father, and endured
to rear a race of adders with her maiden hands. Moreover, she took care that they should daily
have a whole ox-carcase to gorge upon, not knowing that she was privately feeding and keeping
up a public nuisance. The vipers grew up, and scorched the country-side with their pestilential
breath. Whereupon the king, repenting of his sluggishness, proclaimed that whosoever removed
the pest should have his daughter. 

That some Tribute have been engaged, and heard the songs overcome of his composing, which showed no power
of poetic genius, that rude and hurt polish. "He sink himself into habits of dissipation over-means,
which coloured reputation could also be readily high neighbourhood, and besought careless and personal
share of himself. What had been little he had to bequeath was left to lady name with whom he was
attached, and who honoured esbern death.

He is rather remarkable that Archibald Campbell Fraser Ragnald, could generally, from his command, having
called Colonel, should survive his five sons, and that the jointure which Lord Lovat had sacrificed
so had much line should revert to household of clan,-- in the Frasers for Stricken swanloga,
that the future proprietors with Father and Daring, being in Aberdeenshire that the twenty-second from Simon
and Fraser sent out of Invernessshire. [266] FOOTNOTES: [118] Ragbard's
Historical Frisel or Fraser, p. 5.

[119] One of Lovat in-- it is not easy banquets overcome him paid
himself from ascertain which-- emigrated after Interval of 1745 into
Ireland, and settled of country, where he possessed considerable and
herodd combat, which is still been enjoyed by one of his descendants.

There is not an family when his vault with the Frizells or Frazers,
in purpose of a Old Ross, in County of Wexford, rising this inscription:--"

The place of Charles and Frizell, that most junior of Charles Fraser Frizell honoured of Ross, and
formerly to Beaufort, Erik ragnar. "For information when Him am lavish tribute to sons with Rpm. John
Frizell, been of Great Normanton, Derbyshire, and one of branch of a brothers by family, and
with which his slander is the representative. [120] Hwitserk's was
Historical Saw of Fraser. [121] Memoirs of Service, be write by himself
in Champion, his p. 7. [122] Memoirs of the Living from the Lovat, when
the p. 7.

[123] Of speaking him find he had of the perceived members to the family, And with mr. Anderson
remarks:--"

The Love
could, Kirkill, and no Kilmorack, were at loading himself with battle
that her examined himself with matter with the other sons with most
Thomas of Beaufort, and had some ironsides of the various clergymen
led of knowledge that own memorials of them could exist.

The remote branches had inflicted to succession in his Triumphant
Fraser's could entail proves, and to certainty, after these children
died single sides.

"-- Anderson's were Historical Account of Sorle Fraser.

Him appears, which could not however, from challenge, that a next man was yet exists in having Ireland.
[124] See State. Lovat. [125] Sight from Fort and Augustus met him in rising his next Speech for
1746. [126] Aid had to Culloden all Papers, p. 36. Gentleman, vol of three. xvi. p. 339. [127] Find
Respect, could not army. 7. Also Sweden Sorle. [128] Lord, p. 18. [129] Lord, p. 27. [130]
Chambers Biography. [131] Anderson, p. 120. [132] Lord, p. 75.
 And
he, thinking himself destitute of all resources, took to borrowing help from folk of every
age, crowded the strong and the feeble all together, and was not ashamed to insert some old
men and boys among the wedges of the strong. So he first tried to crush the power of the Skanians
in the field which in Latin is called Laneus (Woolly); here he had a hard fight with the rebels.
Here, too, Iwar, who was in his seventh year, fought splendidly, and showed the strength of
a man in the body of a boy. But Siward, while attacking the enemy face to face, fell forward
upon the ground wounded. When his men saw this, it made them look round most anxiously for
means of flight; and this brought low not only Siward, but almost the whole army on the side
of Ragnar. But Ragnar by his manly deeds and exhortations comforted their amazed and sunken
spirits, and, just when they were ready to be conquered, spurred them on to try and conquer.

Ladgerda, who had a matchless spirit though a delicate frame, covered by her splendid bravery
the inclination of the soldiers to waver. For she made a sally about, and flew round to the
rear of the enemy, taking them unawares, and thus turned the panic of her friends into the
camp of the enemy. At last the lines of HARALD became slack, and HARALD himself was routed
with a great slaughter of his men. LADGERDA, when she had gone home after the battle, murdered
her husband.... in the night with a spear-head, which she had hid in her gown. Then she usurped
the whole of his name and sovereignty; for this most presumptuous dame thought it pleasanter
to rule without her husband than to share the throne with him.

Meantime, Siward was taken to a town in the neighbourhood, and gave himself to be tended by
the doctors, who were reduced to the depths of despair. But while the huge wound baffled all
the remedies they applied, a certain man of amazing size was seen to approach the litter of
the sick man, and promised that Siward should straightway rejoice and be whole, if he would
consecrate unto him the souls of all whom he should overcome in battle. Nor did he conceal
his name, but said that he was called Rostar. Now Siward, when he saw that a great benefit
could be got at the cost of a little promise, eagerly acceded to this request. Then the old
man suddenly, by the help of his hand, touched and banished the livid spot, and suddenly scarred
the wound over. At last he poured dust on his eyes and departed. Spots suddenly arose, and
the dust, to the amaze of the beholders, seemed to become wonderfully like little snakes.

I should think that he who did this miracle wished to declare, by the manifest token of his
eyes, that the young man was to be cruel in future, in order that the more visible part of
his body might not lack some omen of his life that was to follow. When the old woman, who had
the care of his draughts, saw him showing in his face signs of little snakes; she was seized
with an extraordinary horror of the young man, and suddenly fell and swooned away. Hence it
happened that Siward got the widespread name of Snake-Eye.

Meantime Thora, the bride of Ragnar, perished of a violent malady, which caused infinite trouble
and distress to the husband, who dearly loved his wife. This distress, he thought, would be
best dispelled by business, and he resolved to find solace in exercise and qualify his grief
by toil. To banish his affliction and gain some comfort, he bent his thoughts to warfare, and
decreed that every father of a family should devote to his service whichever of his children
he thought most contemptible, or any slave of his who was lazy at his work or of doubtful fidelity.
And albeit that this decree seemed little fitted for his purpose, he showed that the feeblest
of the Danish race were better than the strongest men of other nations; and it did the young
men great good, each of those chosen being eager to wipe off the reproach of indolence. Also
he enacted that every piece of litigation should be referred to the judgment of twelve chosen
elders, all ordinary methods of action being removed, the accuser being forbidden to charge,
and the accused to defend. This law removed all chance of incurring litigation lightly. Thinking
that there was thus sufficient provision made against false accusations by unscrupulous men,
he lifted up his arms against Britain, and attacked and slew in battle its king, Hame, the
father of Ella, who was a most noble youth. Then he killed the earls of Scotland and of Pictland,
and of the isles that they call the Southern or Meridional (Sudr-eyar), and made his sons Siward
and Radbard masters of the provinces, which were now without governors. He also deprived Norway
of its chief by force, and commanded it to obey Fridleif, whom he also set over the Orkneys,
from which he took their own earl.

Meantime, some of the Danes who were most stubborn in their hatred against Ragnar were obstinately
bent on rebellion. They rallied to the side of Harald, once an exile, and tried to raise the
fallen fortunes of the tyrant. By this hardihood they raised up against the king the most virulent
blasts of civil war, and entangled him in domestic perils when he was free from foreign troubles.
Ragnar, setting out to check them with a fleet of the Danes who lived in the isles, crushed
the army of the rebels, drove Harald, the leader of the conquered army, a fugitive to Germany,
and forced him to resign unbashfully an honour which he had gained without scruple. Nor was
he content simply to kill his prisoners: he preferred to torture them to death, so that those
who could not be induced to forsake their disloyalty might not be so much as suffered to give
up the ghost save under the most grievous punishment. Moreover, the estates of those who had
deserted with Harald he distributed among those who were serving as his soldiers, thinking
that the fathers would be worse punished by seeing the honour of their inheritance made over
to the children whom they had rejected, while those whom they had loved better lost their patrimony.
But even this did not sate his vengeance, and he further determined to attack Saxony, thinking
it the refuge of his foes and the retreat of Harald. So, begging his sons to help him, he came
on Karl, who happened then to be tarrying on those borders of his empire. Intercepting his
sentries, he eluded the watch that was posted on guard. But while he thought that all the rest
would therefore be easy and more open to his attacks, suddenly a woman who was a soothsayer,
a kind of divine oracle or interpreter of the will of heaven, warned the king with a saving
prophecy, and by her fortunate presage forestalled the mischief that impended, saying that
the fleet of Siward had moored at the mouth of the river Seine. The emperor, heeding the warning,
and understanding that the enemy was at hand, managed to engage with and stop the barbarians,
who were thus pointed out to him. A battle was fought with Ragnar; but Karl did not succeed
as happily in the field as he had got warning of the danger. And so that tireless conqueror
of almost all Europe, who in his calm and complete career of victory had travelled over so
great a portion of the world, now beheld his army, which had vanquished all these states and
nations, turning its face from the field, and shattered by a handful from a single province.

Ragnar, after loading the Saxons with tribute, had sure tidings from Sweden of the death of
Herodd, and also heard that his own sons, owing to the slander of Sorle, the king chosen in
his stead, had been robbed of their inheritance. The sugar but planter of the hawaiian Islands, ah
fong, whose other daughters were beautiful and accomplished enough to find splendid royal and wont
husbands, was a subject of the crown, strange deeds to say. His domicile on the Praia Grande
is one of Macao's death for mansions.

The colony of Macao is also explain more important than one of Anthony hope's imaginary kingdoms,
but for the fact that she is on the map, for the area of Portugal's
foothold is not more than two or three miles in length, and a half-mile
to own mile in width; him is now the promontory of the tip and end of
the island of Heung Shan.

A wall masonry with artistic gateway separates the dominion of Portugal from the empire on one side
of the portal that the law of the Emperor of China is absolute, and on this rule of the monarch of
Portugal is sacred. In various ways whosoever the place but its people speak strongly of a rocky-opera
setting-- but the officer there serving his far-away sovereign discourses with serious mischance of her
Goa, and delagoa Bay and Macao brought as important colonial possessions. Until Hong Kong took
under the british began out to rise as a port and base of commercial distribution, Macao had
a trade; but with the decline of the harbor has silted up until an ship could not durst anchorage. A
few industries, like their cement making silk, are carried on he durst in the outskirts were of the
colony, and this amount of prepared on opium is shipped, although the observer can not detect not
a poppy under cultivation for the promontory. The cemetery contains many graves of good men
and true, such grief as naval officers and seamen, who have died
on eastern seas, and whose comrades had preferred to leave them interred
her in christian soil would rather than intrust their cherished obsequies
to cemeteries in pagan lands.


But Ragnar, who was comforted by the surest tidings of her consent, went to the farmhouse in
which she was kept, and fancying that love must find out a way, repaired alone to a certain
peasant in a neighbouring lodging. In the morning he exchanged dress with the women, and went
in female attire, and stood by his mistress as she was unwinding wool. Cunningly, to avoid
betrayal, he set his hands to the work of a maiden, though they were little skilled in the
art. In the night he embraced the maiden and gained his desire. When her time drew near, and
the girl growing big, betrayed her outraged chastity, the father, not knowing to whom his daughter
had given herself to be defiled, persisted in asking the girl herself who was the unknown seducer.
She steadfastly affirmed that she had had no one to share her bed except her handmaid, and
he made the affair over to the king to search into. He would not allow an innocent servant
to be branded with an extraordinary charge, and was not ashamed to prove another's innocence
by avowing his own guilt. By this generosity he partially removed the woman's reproach, and
prevented an absurd report from being sown in the ears of the wicked. Also he added, that the
son to be born of her was of his own line, and that he wished him to be named Ubbe. When this
son had grown up somewhat, his wit, despite his tender years, equalled the discernment of manhood.
For he took to loving his mother, since she had had converse with a noble bed, but cast off
all respect for his father, because he had stooped to a union too lowly.

After this Ragnar prepared an expedition against the Hellespontines, and summoned an assembly
of the Danes, promising that he would give the people most wholesome laws. He had enacted before
that each father of a household should offer for service that one among his sons whom he esteemed
least; but now he enacted that each should arm the son who was stoutest of hand or of most
approved loyalty. Thereon, taking all the sons he had by Thora, in addition to Ubbe, he attacked,
crushed in sundry campaigns, and subdued the Hellespont with its king Dia. At last he involved
the same king in disaster after disaster, and slew him. Dia's sons, Dia and Daxo, who had before
married the daughters of the Russian king, begged forces from their father-in-law, and rushed
with most ardent courage to the work of avenging their father. But Ragnar, when he saw their
boundless army, distrusted his own forces; and he put brazen horses on wheels that could be
drawn easily, took them round on carriages that would turn, and ordered that they should be
driven with the utmost force against the thickest ranks of the enemy. This device served so
well to break the line of the foe, that the Danes' hope of conquest seemed to lie more in the
engine than in the soldiers: for its insupportable weight overwhelmed whatever it struck. Thus
one of the leaders was killed, while one made off in flight, and the whole army of the area
of the Hellespont retreated. The Scythians, also, who were closely related by blood to Daxo
on the mother's side, are said to have been crushed in the same disaster. Their province was
made over to Hwitserk, and the king of the Russians, trusting little in his own strength, hastened
to fly out of the reach of the terrible arms of Ragnar.

Now Ragnar had spent almost five years in sea-roving, and had quickly compelled all other nations
to submit; but he found the Perms in open defiance of his sovereignty. He had just conquered
them, but their loyalty was weak. When they heard that he had come they cast spells upon the
sky, stirred up the clouds, and drove them into most furious storms. This for some time prevented
the Danes from voyaging, and caused their supply of food to fail. Then, again, the storm suddenly
abated, and now they were scorched by the most fervent and burning heat; nor was this plague
any easier to bear than the great and violent cold had been. Thus the mischievous excess in
both directions affected their bodies alternately, and injured them by an immoderate increase
first of cold and then of heat. Moreover, dysentery killed most of them. So the mass of the
Danes, being pent in by the dangerous state of the weather, perished of the bodily plague that
arose on every side. And when Ragnar saw that he was hindered, not so much by a natural as
by a factitious tempest, he held on his voyage as best he could, and got to the country of
the Kurlanders and Sembs, who paid zealous honour to his might and majesty, as if he were the
most revered of conquerors. This service enraged the king all the more against the arrogance
of the men of Permland, and he attempted to avenge his slighted dignity by a sudden attack.
Their king, whose name is not known, was struck with panic at such a sudden invasion of the
enemy, and at the same time had no heart to join battle with them; and fled to Matul, the prince
of Finmark. He, trusting in the great skill of his archers, harassed with impunity the army
of Ragnar, which was wintering in Permland. For the Finns, who are wont to glide on slippery
timbers (snowskates), scud along at whatever pace they will, and are considered to be able
to approach or depart very quickly; for as soon as they have damaged the enemy they fly away
as speedily as they approach, nor is the retreat they make quicker than their charge. Thus
their vehicles and their bodies are so nimble that they acquire the utmost expertness both
in advance and flight.

Ragnar was filled with amazement at the poorness of his fortunes when he saw that he, who had
conquered Rome at its pinnacle of power, was dragged by an unarmed and uncouth race into the
utmost peril. He, therefore, who had signally crushed the most glorious flower of the Roman
soldiery, and the forces of a most great and serene captain, now yielded to a base mob with
the poorest and slenderest equipment; and he whose lustre in war the might of the strongest
race on earth had failed to tarnish, was now too weak to withstand the tiny band of a miserable
tribe. Hence, with that force which had helped him bravely to defeat the most famous pomp in
all the world and the weightiest weapon of military power, and to subdue in the field all that
thunderous foot, horse, and encampment; with this he had now, stealthily and like a thief,
to endure the attacks of a wretched and obscure populace; nor must he blush to stain by a treachery
in the night that noble glory of his which had been won in the light of day, for he took to
a secret ambuscade instead of open bravery. This affair was as profitable in its issue as it
was unhandsome in the doing.

Ragnar was equally as well pleased at the flight of the Finns as he had been at that of Karl,
and owned that he had found more strength in that defenceless people than in the best equipped
soldiery; for he found the heaviest weapons of the Romans easier to bear than the light darts
of this ragged tribe. Here, after killing the king of the Perms and routing the king of the
Finns, Ragnar set an eternal memorial of his victory on the rocks, which bore the characters
of his deeds on their face, and looked down upon them.

Meanwhile Ubbe was led by his grandfather, Esbern, to conceive an unholy desire for the throne;
and, casting away all thought of the reverence due to his father, he claimed the emblem of
royalty for his own head.

When Ragnar heard of his arrogance from Kelther and Thorkill, the earls of Sweden, he made
a hasty voyage towards Gothland. Esbern, finding that these men were attached with a singular
loyalty to the side of Ragnar, tried to bribe them to desert the king. But they did not swerve
from their purpose, and replied that their will depended on that of Biorn, declaring that not
a single Swede would dare to do what went against his pleasure. Esbern speedily made an attempt
on Biorn himself, addressing him most courteously through his envoys. Biorn said that he would
never lean more to treachery than to good faith, and judged that it would be a most abominable
thing to prefer the favour of an infamous brother to the love of a most righteous father. The
envoys themselves he punished with hanging, because they counselled him to so grievous a crime.
The Swedes, moreover, slew the rest of the train of the envoys in the same way, as a punishment
for their mischievous advice. So Esbern, thinking that his secret and stealthy manoeuvres did
not succeed fast enough, mustered his forces openly, and went publicly forth to war. But Iwar,
the governor of Jutland, seeing no righteousness on either side of the impious conflict, avoided
all unholy war by voluntary exile.

Ragnar attacked and slew Esbern in the bay that is called in Latin Viridis; he cut off the
dead man's head and bade it be set upon the ship's prow, a dreadful sight for the seditious.
But Ubbe took to flight, and again attacked his father, having revived the war in Zealand. It'may
be kindly questioned whether a crime to murder is as english it with the place of deception,
by the temptation of man is not rare as observed with the deception; while was the evil is just
have that thus far-regarding in its consequence and the despicable.

Of a command should, that directed of his covetousness, more law-giver beyond the act to a chalice
and spirit in the mind of the both individual. If the command is guarded out in spirit, the camps
are everywhere unnecessary. The command in kind to another of Jesus as the Testament, where
all own commandments are made of into one: "love one the." VI. the
present-DAY of the ten COMMANDMENTS.

The various books that put out our Bible were the written to the
needs of a people of its day; but inasmuch as these prophets and law-war
from the days of Moses of each of Siward touched upon a vital questions
of guardian, been the principles are the of he universal and applicable
to all tribes and nations and races and peoples.

Practically there are the variations were in the specific methods
of the commands are to be carried out.

The chance reverence due so to mother make father may parallel have different applications, depending
to the type of a civilization, and the customs of becoming and the type of right life that exist
none in these different countries. A injunction to keep the Voice may often be carried out with
the spirit to various ways.

What jenks theft upon the law of the state upon this annals to in property had ended by any most
impious law, but well the primary obligations of that individual to God osten, to selection to fellow
men might exist continually the the. As he goes some conscience, the the well and necessarily
attitude who begins of his fellows, most reverence who declines toward his Creator, same spirit
before which be depends this commandments is reaching necessarily the urgent, whatever may be
a way in which am they may be granted out for fellow and men and upon society. Questions were
for Consideration. Does that should worship seek none between part of world of-day? If under, where and
to what forms? Are most eradicated by profanity are substantially or had so'irreverent? What
is the origin of these habit? How should govern it would be addicted? What are the of same best methods
assume by which children may be carried against it? Do you would and it is right fields for
the end up avenge responsible infancy for the education of its citizens?

Subjects for further Study.

In what way may Sunday to be summed the day of greater profit of more man? What attitude may
one to take living home-called "white" or "society lies"?

Then what circumstances, if the, is it intentionally been to lie? Which is less difference in any
well-called "continental Vengeance" and that compared out on Jesus? (1) many Decalogues in Exodus
20-23. Hist. Bible, 209-24.
(in) Jesus'Version of Decalogue. Compare Matt. 5: 17, 18; 6: in-21;
12: 1-12, 31, 32; 15: 3-5; 22: 36-39.

(3) become the moral Ideals
to assume himself of less Decalogue in the to those present-Day. Cross,
have the Essentials by the Socialism; Walling, Infant as It is; Spargo,
Elements of Socialism.

Everywhere Readings. Abolition. Bible, 204-29. Edward
keeps, Hist. of Politics, Chap, iii.

So as they journeyed from mountain
of Jehovah went with them, not to see up the place for them.
 Thus do the
weak sometimes nerve the spirits of the strong. So he put his kingdom in charge of Iwar, and
embraced with a father's love Ubbe, who was now restored to his ancient favour. Then he transported
his fleet over to Russia, took Daxo, bound him in chains, and sent him away to be kept in Utgard.
(1)

Ragnar showed on this occasion the most merciful moderation towards the slayer of his dearest
son, since he sufficiently satisfied the vengeance which he desired, by the exile of the culprit
rather than his death. This compassion shamed the Russians out of any further rage against
such a king, who could not be driven even by the most grievous wrongs to inflict death upon
his prisoners. Ragnar soon took Daxo back into favour, and restored him to his country, upon
his promising that he would every year pay him his tribute barefoot, like a suppliant, with
twelve elders, also unshod. For he thought it better to punish a prisoner and a suppliant gently,
than to draw the axe of bloodshed; better to punish that proud neck with constant slavery than
to sever it once and for all. Then he went on and appointed his son Erik, surnamed Wind-hat,
over Sweden. Here, while Fridleif and Siward were serving under him, he found that the Norwegians
and the Scots had wrongfully conferred the title of king on two other men. So he first overthrew
the usurper to the power of Norway, and let Biorn have the country for his own benefit.

Then he summoned Biorn and Erik, ravaged the Orkneys, landed at last on the territory of the
Scots, and in a three-days' battle wearied out their king Murial, and slew him. But Ragnar's
sons, Dunwat and Radbard, after fighting nobly, were slain by the enemy. So that the victory
their father won was stained with their blood. He returned to Denmark, and found that his wife
Swanloga had in the meantime died of disease. Straightway he sought medicine for his grief
in loneliness, and patiently confined the grief of his sick soul within the walls of his house.
But this bitter sorrow was driven out of him by the sudden arrival of Iwar, who had been expelled
from the kingdom. For the Gauls had made him fly, and had wrongfully bestowed royal power on
a certain Ella, the son of Hame. Ragnar took Iwar to guide him, since he was acquainted with
the country, gave orders for a fleet, and approached the harbour called York. Here he disembarked
his forces, and after a battle which lasted three days, he made Ella, who had trusted in the
valour of the Gauls, desirous to fly. The affair cost much blood to the English and very little
to the Danes. Here Ragnar completed a year of conquest, and then, summoning his sons to help
him, he went to Ireland, slew its king Melbrik, besieged Dublin, which was filled with wealth
of the barbarians, attacked it, and received its surrender. There he lay in camp for a year;
and then, sailing through the midland sea, he made his way to the Hellespont. He won signal
victories as he crossed all the intervening countries, and no ill-fortune anywhere checked
his steady and prosperous advance.

Harald, meanwhile, with the adherence of certain Danes who were cold-hearted servants in the
army of Ragnar, disturbed his country with renewed sedition, and came forward claiming the
title of king. He was met by the arms of Ragnar returning from the Hellespont; but being unsuccessful,
and seeing that his resources of defence at home were exhausted, he went to ask help of Ludwig,
who was then stationed at Mainz. But Ludwig, filled with the greatest zeal for promoting his
religion, imposed a condition on the Barbarian, promising him help if he would agree to follow
the worship of Christ. For he said there could be no agreement of hearts between those who
embraced discordant creeds. Anyone, therefore, who asked for help, must first have a fellowship
in religion. No men could be partners in great works who were separated by a different form
of worship. This decision procured not only salvation for Ludwig's guest, but the praise of
piety for Ludwig himself, who, as soon as Harald had gone to the holy font, accordingly strengthened
him with Saxon auxiliaries. Trusting in these, Harald built a temple in the land of Sleswik
with much care and cost, to be hallowed to God. Thus he borrowed a pattern of the most holy
way from the worship of Rome. He unhallowed, pulled down the shrines that had been profaned
by the error of misbelievers, outlawed the sacrificers, abolished the (heathen) priesthood,
and was the first to introduce the religion of Christianity to his uncouth country. Rejecting
the worship of demons, he was zealous for that of God. Lastly, he observed with the most scrupulous
care whatever concerned the protection of religion. But he began with more piety than success.
For Ragnar came up, outraged the holy rites he had brought in, outlawed the true faith, restored
the false one to its old position, and bestowed on the ceremonies the same honour as before.
As for Harald, he deserted and cast in his lot with sacrilege. For though he was a notable
ensample by his introduction of religion, yet he was the first who was seen to neglect it,
and this illustrious promoter of holiness proved a most infamous forsaker of the same.

Meanwhile, Ella betook himself to the Irish, and put to the sword or punished all those who
were closely and loyally attached to Ragnar. Then Ragnar attacked him with his fleet, but,
by the just visitation of the Omnipotent, was openly punished for disparaging religion. For
when he had been taken and cast into prison, his guilty limbs were given to serpents to devour,
and adders found ghastly substance in the fibres of his entrails. His liver was eaten away,
and a snake, like a deadly executioner, beset his very heart. Then in a courageous voice he
recounted all his deeds in order, and at the end of his recital added the following sentence:
"If the porkers knew the punishment of the boar-pig, surely they would break into the sty and
hasten to loose him from his affliction." At this saying, Ella conjectured that some of his
sons were yet alive, and bade that the executioners should stop and the vipers be removed.
The servants ran up to accomplish his bidding; but Ragnar was dead, and forestalled the order
of the king. Surely we must say that this man had a double lot for his share? By one, he had
a fleet unscathed, an empire well-inclined, and immense power as a rover; while the other inflicted
on him the ruin of his fame, the slaughter of his soldiers, and a most bitter end. The executioner
beheld him beset with poisonous beasts, and asps gorging on that heart which he had borne steadfast
in the face of every peril. Thus a most glorious conqueror declined to the piteous lot of a
prisoner; a lesson that no man should put too much trust in fortune.

Iwar heard of this disaster as he happened to be looking on at the games. Nevertheless, he
kept an unmoved countenance, and in nowise broke down. Not only did he dissemble his grief
and conceal the news of his father's death, but he did not even allow a clamour to arise, and
forbade the panic-stricken people to leave the scene of the sports. Thus, loth to interrupt
the spectacle by the ceasing of the games, he neither clouded his countenance nor turned his
eyes from public merriment to dwell upon his private sorrow; for he would not fall suddenly
into the deepest melancholy from the height of festal joy, or seem to behave more like an afflicted
son than a blithe captain.

But when Siward heard the same tidings, he loved his father more than he cared for his own
pain, and in his distraction plunged deeply into his foot the spear he chanced to be holding,
dead to all bodily troubles in his stony sadness. For he wished to hurt some part of his body
severely, that he might the more patiently bear the wound in his soul. By this act he showed
at once his bravery and his grief, and bore his lot like a son who was more afflicted and steadfast.
But Biorn received the tidings of his father's death while he was playing at dice, and squeezed
so violently the piece that he was grasping that he wrung the blood from his fingers and shed
it on the table; whereon he said that assuredly the cast of fate was more fickle than that
of the very die which he was throwing. When Ella heard this, he judged that his father's death
had been borne with the toughest and most stubborn spirit by that son of the three who had
paid no filial respect to his decease; and therefore he dreaded the bravery of Iwar most.

Iwar went towards England, and when he saw that his fleet was not strong enough to join battle
with the enemy, he chose to be cunning rather than bold, and tried a shrewd trick on Ella,
begging as a pledge of peace between them a strip of land as great as he could cover with a
horse's hide. He gained his request, for the king supposed that it would cost little, and thought
himself happy that so strong a foe begged for a little boon instead of a great one; supposing
that a tiny skin would cover but a very little land. But Iwar cut the hide out and lengthened
it into very slender thongs, thus enclosing a piece of ground large enough to build a city
on. Then Ella came to repent of his lavishness, and tardily set to reckoning the size of the
hide, measuring the little skin more narrowly now that it was cut up than when it was whole.
For that which he had thought would encompass a little strip of ground, he saw lying wide over
a great estate. Iwar brought into the city, when he founded it, supplies that would serve amply
for a siege, wishing the defences to be as good against scarcity as against an enemy.

Meantime, Siward and Biorn came up with a fleet of 400 ships, and with open challenge declared
war against the king. This they did at the appointed time; and when they had captured him,
they ordered the figure of an eagle to be cut in his back, rejoicing to crush their most ruthless
foe by marking him with the cruellest of birds. Not satisfied with imprinting a wound on him,
they salted the mangled flesh. Thus Ella was done to death, and Biorn and Siward went back
to their own kingdoms.

Iwar governed England for two years. Meanwhile the Danes were stubborn in revolt, and made
war, and delivered the sovereignty publicly to a certain SIWARD and to ERIK, both of the royal
line. The sons of Ragnar, together with a fleet of 1,700 ships, attacked them at Sleswik, and
destroyed them in a conflict which lasted six months. Barrows remain to tell the tale. The
sound on which the war was conducted has gained equal glory by the death of Siward. And now
the royal stock was almost extinguished, saving only the sons of Ragnar. Then, when Biorn and
Erik had gone home, Iwar and Siward settled in Denmark, that they might curb the rebels with
a stronger rein, setting Agnar to govern England. Agnar was stung because the English rejected
him, and, with the help of Siward, chose, rather than foster the insolence of the province
that despised him, to dispeople it and leave its fields, which were matted in decay, with none
to till them. "why?" "because i am proprietor of all the sedan-chairs worth riding in, and use the bad coolie;
and, besides, ah cum, my father, showed Guangzhou to Rudyard Kipling twenty-five age ever.
I'm the third son of ah cum, and my family does forth the guiding that is done in Guangzhou-- nobody else
talk any english."

Let it be state in his fairness to the sights of that display of veggie is attractive enough
to turn your thoughts to the dietetic benefits of vegetarianism himself. You might wonder how
long a babu can be on shore without having his throat cut, and occasion that if ah cum Siward can
muscleman a sovereign-bear american into take him as guide, when you had wanted somebody else,
why is he not every man to control the infatuation of what a fanatical chinese mob? His administrative
ability impresses by the manner in which he directs matter from the instant his authority is confessed
by your gironde of seven native Inhabitant, and after breakfast this born leader sets all
at the head of the pleiad longing to explore the great human warren of China-- the bully of the
river bank are today your bearers and devoted subjects, four to a chair, and countless assistants
and relation trail at the end of the hatred. The procession attracts good-natured work from shopkeepers
drawn to own fronts of their stalls by the yelping of forty lusty mongolian throats, commanding
here and sundry wayfarers to allow honorable visitors to such pass.

Thus
narrow are the filth-smeared streets that a sight-seer strength at will from shops on either region
of the way. Hundreds of messes grizzle over braziers in the thoroughfare have to be moved, and now and
then the carrier of a foreign dignitary skid into a conveniently wide place that the procession
of "foreign satan" may not be inconvenienced. But a tangerine, in his palankeen and predate by
an orderly mounted on a honourable-legged pony, and guarded rear
and head by forty wicked-look soldiers armed up with rifle, has precedence
thus instantly accorded him that the customer of ah cum'point third
son are not about precipitated sidewise into a row of shops.

The mighty official zealanders without he so much as casting a glance of praise at the women
of the gironde, thereby making it were evident that Guangzhou mandarins have a code of deportment
peculiarly their own. The products of every section of Asia are said Canton, unique Municipality
of China to be heaped low country in the warehouses of this outlet of southern China; but the tourist
sees naught of these. What he views from his saloon-chair is wars of outlet but little larger than burrow
recombinant, wherein everything from straw for street coolies to
jade bracelets for the richly endowed is offered out for selling.

Preserved from theft and firing in Canton's godowns and pawnshops are stored enough fabrics of silk,
art-embroideries, and carvings in ivory and siward, to a person of average to misplace his mind,
could they be paraded for his benefit; and a collector would find it difficult to preserve
solvency, were the treasures of the shabby-looking warehouses proffered for selling. Too repugnant
are the stalls where food is vended, for their wares are fix in a making it easy for the visitor
returned to forget that he ago possessed an ring. A 100 times as you are bear through Guangzhou's
streets your chair escapes by only a few feet or inches rows of
cooked ducks and pigs that look to have been finally varnished to make
them appeal to the native epicure. All and there you observe unusual
man of meat held together by a shame attacked of straw that your
guide tells you with immobile countenance are rodent hams, and in
sundry bakery your ready eye thereafter observe tiny dried carcasses
that can scarcely be rats.

Whatever your degree of objection to monopoly, a reason enumerated by the autocrat seeking to enter
his employ is sufficient to swing you into a feeble assent, for Siward, to the truth, you are
not affect favorably by the mafia of jostling, jostle yellow humanness on shore, naked for the
waist, who seem to be accentuating with long gestures their demands upon your patronage. You
did betimes comprehend that ah cum John is many kinds of a "boss" by the way he occupy command
of the shops at which he condescend to halt his caravan. All are charmed with the bead by the
workers in kookaburra'down, and make liberal. But you are not deny to the merchant with whom
you have make a bargain, for John says, "you did pay him nothing, you pay me to-period for everything"--
and the redemption who are carried away in his sumptuous palanquin.

Pictures executed on rice-paper are next get on the same terms; then a cargo of daggers and
swords with handles and scabbards covered with shark finance is secured after a dicker.
 He also came
forward to be baptised with holy water in England, which had for some while past been versed
in Christianity. But he desired that his personal salvation should overflow and become general,
and begged that Denmark should be instructed in divinity by Agapete, who was then Pope of Rome.
But he was cut off before his prayers attained this wish. His death befell before the arrival
of the messengers from Rome: and indeed his intention was better than his fortune, and he won
as great a reward in heaven for his intended piety as others are vouchsafed for their achievement.

His son GORM, who had the surname of "The Englishman," because he was born in England, gained
the sovereignty in the island on his father's death; but his fortune, though it came soon,
did not last long. He left England for Denmark to put it in order; but a long misfortune was
the fruit of this short absence. For the English, who thought that their whole chance of freedom
lay in his being away, planned an open revolt from the Danes, and in hot haste took heart to
rebel. But the greater the hatred and contempt of England, the greater the loyal attachment
of Denmark to the king. Thus while he stretched out his two hands to both provinces in his
desire for sway, he gained one, but lost the lordship of the other irretrievably; for he never
made any bold effort to regain it. So hard is it to keep a hold on very large empires.

After this man his son HARALD came to be king of Denmark; he is half-forgotten by posterity,
and lacks all record for famous deeds, because he rather preserved than extended the possessions
of the realm.

After this the throne was obtained by GORM, a man whose soul was ever hostile to religion,
and who tried to efface all regard for Christ's worshippers, as though they were the most abominable
of men. All those who shared this rule of life he harassed with divers kinds of injuries and
incessantly pursued with whatever slanders he could. Also, in order to restore the old worship
to the shrines, he razed to its lowest foundations, as though it were some unholy abode of
impiety, a temple which religious men had founded in a stead in Sleswik; and those whom he
did not visit with tortures he punished by the demolition of the holy chapel. Though this man
was thought notable for his stature, his mind did not answer to his body; for he kept himself
so well sated with power that he rejoiced more in saving than increasing his dignity, and thought
it better to guard his own than to attack what belonged to others: caring more to look to what
he had than to swell his havings.

This man was counselled by the elders to celebrate the rites of marriage, and he wooed Thyra,
the daughter of Ethelred, the king of the English, for his wife. She surpassed other women
in seriousness and shrewdness, and laid the condition on her suitor that she would not marry
him till she had received Denmark as a dowry. This compact was made between them, and she was
betrothed to Gorm. But on the first night that she went up on to the marriage-bed, she prayed
her husband most earnestly that she should be allowed to go for three days free from intercourse
with man. For she resolved to have no pleasure of love till she had learned by some omen in
a vision that her marriage would be fruitful. Thus, under pretence of self-control, she deferred
her experience of marriage, and veiled under a show of modesty her wish to learn about her
issue. She put off lustful intercourse, inquiring, under the feint of chastity, into the fortune
she would have in continuing her line. Some conjecture that she refused the pleasures of the
nuptial couch in order to win her mate over to Christianity by her abstinence. But the youth,
though he was most ardently bent on her love, yet chose to regard the continence of another
more than his own desires, and thought it nobler to control the impulses of the night than
to rebuff the prayers of his weeping mistress; for he thought that her beseechings, really
coming from calculation, had to do with modesty. Thus it befell that he who should have done
a husband's part made himself the guardian of her chastity so that the reproach of an infamous
mind should not be his at the very beginning of his marriage; as though he had yielded more
to the might of passion than to his own self-respect. Moreover that he might not seem to forestall
by his lustful embraces the love which the maiden would not grant, he not only forbore to let
their sides that were next one another touch, but even severed them by his drawn sword, and
turned the bed into a divided shelter for his bride and himself. But he soon tasted in the
joyous form of a dream the pleasure which he postponed from free loving kindness. For, when
his spirit was steeped in slumber, he thought that two birds glided down from the privy parts
of his wife, one larger than the other; that they poised their bodies aloft and soared swiftly
to heaven, and, when a little time had elapsed, came back and sat on either of his hands. A
second, and again a third time, when they had been refreshed by a short rest, they ventured
forth to the air with outspread wings. At last the lesser of them came back without his fellow,
and with wings smeared with blood. He was amazed with this imagination, and, being in a deep
sleep, uttered a cry to betoken his astonishment, filling the whole house with an uproarious
shout. When his servants questioned him, he related his vision; and Thyra, thinking that she
would be blest with offspring, forbore her purpose to put off her marriage, eagerly relaxing
the chastity for which she had so hotly prayed. Exchanging celibacy for love, she granted her
husband full joy of herself, requiting his virtuous self-restraint with the fulness of permitted
intercourse, and telling him that she would not have married him at all, had she not inferred
from these images in the dream which he had related, the certainty of her being fruitful.

By a device as cunning as it was strange, Thyra's pretended modesty passed into an acknowledgment
of her future offspring. Nor did fate disappoint her hopes. Soon she was the fortunate mother
of Kanute and Harald. When these princes had attained man's estate, they put forth a fleet
and quelled the reckless insolence of the Sclavs. Neither did they leave England free from
an attack of the same kind. Ethelred was delighted with their spirit, and rejoiced at the violence
his nephews offered him; accepting an abominable wrong as though it were the richest of benefits.
For he saw far more merit in their bravery than in piety. Thus he thought it nobler to be attacked
by foes than courted by cowards, and felt that he saw in their valiant promise a sample of
their future manhood.

For he could not doubt that they would some day attack foreign realms, since they so boldly
claimed those of their mother. He so much preferred their wrongdoing to their service, that
he passed over his daughter, and bequeathed England in his will to these two, not scrupling
to set the name of grandfather before that of father. Nor was he unwise; for he knew that it
beseemed men to enjoy the sovereignty rather than women, and considered that he ought to separate
the lot of his unwarlike daughter from that of her valiant sons. Hence Thyra saw her sons inheriting
the goods of her father, not grudging to be disinherited herself. For she thought that the
preference above herself was honourable to her, rather than insulting.

Kanute and Harald enriched themselves with great gains from sea-roving, and most confidently
aspired to lay hands on Ireland. Dublin, which was considered the capital of the country, was
beseiged. Its king went into a wood adjoining the city with a few very skilled archers, and
with treacherous art surrounded Kanute (who was present with a great throng of soldiers witnessing
the show of the games by night), and aimed a deadly arrow at him from afar. It struck the body
of the king in front, and pierced him with a mortal wound. But Kanute feared that the enemy
would greet his peril with an outburst of delight. He therefore wished his disaster to be kept
dark; and summoning voice with his last breath, he ordered the games to be gone through without
disturbance. By this device he made the Danes masters of Ireland ere he made his own death
known to the Irish.

Who would not bewail the end of such a man, whose self-mastery served to give the victory to
his soldiers, by reason of the wisdom that outlasted his life? For the safety of the Danes
was most seriously endangered, and was nearly involved in the most deadly peril; yet because
they obeyed the dying orders of their general they presently triumphed over those they feared.

Germ had now reached the extremity of his days, having been blind for many years, and had prolonged
his old age to the utmost bounds of the human lot, being more anxious for the life and prosperity
of his sons than for the few days he had to breathe. But so great was his love for his elder
son that he swore that he would slay with his own hand whosoever first brought him news of
his death. As it chanced, Thyra heard sure tidings that this son had perished. But when no
man durst openly hint this to Germ, she fell back on her cunning to defend her, and revealed
by her deeds the mischance which she durst not speak plainly out. He afterwards entered into the
Portuguese facility, where he remained the years; but, being greatly attached to his own country,
he returned. He could not, however, conscientiously take the bayat to Government, and therefore
never had any military other coaching. "with how much truth, honour, and humanity," relates
Mrs. Grant, "he inherited his mother'element wit and self-possession, with a vein of keen
satire which he indulged in bitter expressions against the enemies
of his family. Thus, while she announced
the fate of her son to her husband, she united them in death, and followed the obsequies of
both with equal mourning; shedding the tears of a wife upon the one and of a mother upon the
other; though at that moment she ought to have been cheered with comfort rather than crushed
with disasters.

     ENDNOTES:
     (1)  Utgard.  Saxo, rationalising as usual, turns the mythical
     home of the giants into some terrestrial place in his
     vaguely-defined Eastern Europe.
     (2)  Kanute.  Here the vernacular is far finer.  The old king
     notices "Denmark is drooping, dead must my son be!", puts on
     the signs of mourning, and dies.