As the time passed and there was no sign of supper, the question became a burning one, and
we went to explore the kitchen. No sign of it there. No fire in the stove, nothing cooked in
the house, of course. Mrs. Egger and her comely young barefooted daughter had still the milking
to attend to, and supper must wait for the other chores. It seemed easier to be Mr. Egger,
in this state of existence, and sit on the front porch and meditate on the price of mules and
the prospect of a crop, than to be Mrs. Egger, whose work was not limited from sun to sun;
who had, in fact, a day's work to do after the men-folks had knocked off; whose chances of
neighborhood gossip were scanty, whose amusements were confined to a religious meeting once
a fortnight. Good, honest people these, not unduly puffed up by the brick house, grubbing away
year in and year out. Yes, the young girl said, there was a neighborhood party, now and then,
in the winter. What a price to pay for mere life!

Long before supper was ready, nearly nine o'clock, we had almost lost interest in it. Meantime
two other guests had arrived, a couple of drovers from North Carolina, who brought into the
circle--by this time a wood-fire had been kindled in the sitting-room, which contained a bed,
an almanac, and some old copies of a newspaper--a rich flavor of cattle, and talk of the price
of steers. As to politics, although a presidential campaign was raging, there was scarcely
an echo of it here. This was Johnson County, Tennessee, a strong Republican county but dog-gone
it, says Mr. Egger, it's no use to vote; our votes are overborne by the rest of the State.
Yes, they'd got a Republican member of Congress,--he'd heard his name, but he'd forgotten it.
The drover said he'd heard it also, but he didn't take much interest in such things, though
he wasn't any Republican. Parties is pretty much all for office, both agreed. Even the Professor,
who was traveling in the interest of Reform, couldn't wake up a discussion out of such a state
of mind.

Alas! the supper, served in a room dimly lighted with a smoky lamp, on a long table covered
with oilcloth, was not of the sort to arouse the delayed and now gone appetite of a Reformer,
and yet it did not lack variety: cornpone (Indian meal stirred up with water and heated through),
hot biscuit, slack-baked and livid, fried salt-pork swimming in grease, apple-butter, pickled
beets, onions and cucumbers raw, coffee (so-called), buttermilk, and sweet milk when specially
asked for (the correct taste, however, is for buttermilk), and pie. This was not the pie of
commerce, but the pie of the country,--two thick slabs of dough, with a squeezing of apple
between. The profusion of this supper staggered the novices, but the drovers attacked it as
if such cooking were a common occurrence and did justice to the weary labors of Mrs. Egger.

Egger is well prepared to entertain strangers, having several rooms and several beds in each
room. Upon consultation with the drovers, they said they'd just as soon occupy an apartment
by themselves, and we gave up their society for the night. The beds in our chamber had each
one sheet, and the room otherwise gave evidence of the modern spirit; for in one corner stood
the fashionable aesthetic decoration of our Queen Anne drawing-rooms,--the spinning-wheel.
Soothed by this concession to taste, we crowded in between the straw and the home-made blanket
and sheet, and soon ceased to hear the barking of dogs and the horned encounters of the drovers'
herd.

We parted with Mr. Egger after breakfast (which was a close copy of the supper) with more respect
than regret. His total charge for the entertainment of two men and two horses--supper, lodging,
and breakfast--was high or low, as the traveler chose to estimate it. It was $1.20: that is,
thirty cents for each individual, or ten cents for each meal and lodging.

Our road was a sort of by-way up Gentry Creek and over the Cut Laurel Gap to Worth's, at Creston
Post Office, in North Carolina,--the next available halting place, said to be fifteen miles
distant, and turning out to be twenty-two, and a rough road. There is a little settlement about
Egger's, and the first half mile of our way we had the company of the schoolmistress, a modest,
pleasant-spoken girl. Neither she nor any other people we encountered had any dialect or local
peculiarity of speech. Indeed, those we encountered that morning had nothing in manner or accent
to distinguish them. The novelists had led us to expect something different; and the modest
and pretty young lady with frank and open blue eyes, who wore gloves and used the common English
speech, had never figured in the fiction of the region. Cherished illusions vanish often on
near approach. The day gave no peculiarity of speech to note, except the occasional use of
"hit" for "it."

The road over Cut Laurel Gap was very steep and stony, the thermometer mounted up to 80 deg.,
and, notwithstanding the beauty of the way, the ride became tedious before we reached the summit.
On the summit is the dwelling and distillery of a colonel famous in these parts. We stopped
at the house for a glass of milk; the colonel was absent, and while the woman in charge went
after it, we sat on the veranda and conversed with a young lady, tall, gent, well favored,
and communicative, who leaned in the doorway.

"Yes, this house stands on the line. Where you sit, you are in Tennessee; I'm in North Carolina."

"Do you live here?"

"Law, no; I'm just staying a little while at the colonel's. I live over the mountain here,
three miles from Taylorsville. I thought I'd be where I could step into North Carolina easy."

"How's that?"

"Well, they wanted me to go before the grand jury and testify about some pistol-shooting down
by our house, some friends of mine got into a little difficulty,--and I did n't want to. I
never has no difficulty with nobody, never says nothing about nobody, has nothing against nobody,
and I reckon nobody has nothing against me."

"Did you come alone?"

"Why, of course. I come across the mountain by a path through the woods. That's nothing."

A discreet, pleasant, pretty girl. This surely must be the Esmeralda who lives in these mountains,
and adorns low life by her virgin purity and sentiment. As she talked on, she turned from time
to time to the fireplace behind her, and discharged a dark fluid from her pretty lips, with
accuracy of aim, and with a nonchalance that was not assumed, but belongs to our free-born
American girls. I cannot tell why this habit of hers (which is no worse than the sister habit
of "dipping") should take her out of the romantic setting that her face and figure had placed
her in; but somehow we felt inclined to ride on farther for our heroine.

"And yet," said the Professor, as we left the site of the colonel's thriving distillery, and
by a winding, picturesque road through a rough farming country descended into the valley,--"and
yet, why fling aside so readily a character and situation so full of romance, on account of
a habit of this mountain Helen, which one of our best poets has almost made poetical, in the
case of the pioneer taking his westward way, with ox-goad pointing to the sky:

  "'He's leaving on the pictured rock
   His fresh tobacco stain.'

"To my mind the incident has Homeric elements. The Greeks would have looked at it in a large,
legendary way. Here is Helen, strong and lithe of limb, ox-eyed, courageous, but woman-hearted
and love-inspiring, contended for by all the braves and daring moonshiners of Cut Laurel Gap,
pursued by the gallants of two States, the prize of a border warfare of bowie knives and revolvers.
This Helen, magnanimous as attractive, is the witness of a pistol difficulty on her behalf,
and when wanted by the areopagus, that she may neither implicate a lover nor punish an enemy
(having nothing, this noble type of her sex against nobody), skips away to Mount Ida, and there,
under the aegis of the flag of her country, in a Licensed Distillery, stands with one slender
foot in Tennessee and the other in North Carolina..."

"Like the figure of the Republic itself, superior to state sovereignty," interposed the Friend.

"I beg your pardon," said the Professor, urging up Laura Matilda (for so he called the nervous
mare, who fretted herself into a fever in the stony path), "I was quite able to get the woman
out of that position without the aid of a metaphor. It is a large and Greek idea, that of standing
in two mighty States, superior to the law, looking east and looking west, ready to transfer
her agile body to either State on the approach of messengers of the court; and I'll be hanged
if I didn't think that her nonchalant rumination of the weed, combined with her lofty moral
attitude, added something to the picture."

The Friend said that he was quite willing to join in the extremest defense of the privileges
of beauty,--that he even held in abeyance judgment on the practice of dipping; but when it
came to chewing, gum was as far as he could go as an allowance for the fair sex.

  "When I consider everything that grows
   Holds in perfection but a little moment..."

The rest of the stanza was lost, for the Professor was splashing through the stream. No sooner
had we descended than the fording of streams began again. The Friend had been obliged to stipulate
that the Professor should go ahead at these crossings, to keep the impetuous nag of the latter
from throwing half the contents of the stream upon his slower and uncomplaining companion.

What a lovely country, but for the heat of noon and the long wearisomeness of the way!--not
that the distance was great, but miles and miles more than expected. How charming the open
glades of the river, how refreshing the great forests of oak and chestnut, and what a panorama
of beauty the banks of rhododendrons, now intermingled with the lighter pink and white of the
laurel! In this region the rhododendron is called laurel and the laurel (the sheep-laurel of
New England) is called ivy.

At Worth's, well on in the afternoon, we emerged into a wide, open farming intervale, a pleasant
place of meadows and streams and decent dwellings. Worth's is the trading center of the region,
has a post office and a saw-mill and a big country store; and the dwelling of the proprietor
is not unlike a roomy New England country house. Worth's has been immemorially a stopping-place
in a region where places of accommodation are few. The proprietor, now an elderly man, whose
reminiscences are long ante bellum, has seen the world grow up about him, he the honored, just
center of it, and a family come up into the modern notions of life, with a boarding-school
education and glimpses of city life and foreign travel. I fancy that nothing but tradition
and a remaining Southern hospitality could induce this private family to suffer the incursions
of this wayfaring man. Our travelers are not apt to be surprised at anything in American life,
but they did not expect to find a house in this region with two pianos and a bevy of young
ladies, whose clothes were certainly not made on Cut Laurel Gap, and to read in the books scattered
about the house the evidences of the finishing schools with which our country is blessed, nor
to find here pupils of the Stonewall Jackson Institute at Abingdon. With a flush of local pride,
the Professor took up, in the roomy, pleasant chamber set apart for the guests, a copy of Porter's
"Elements of Moral Science."

"Where you see the 'Elements of Moral Science,'" the Friend generalized, "there'll be plenty
of water and towels;" and the sign did not fail. The friends intended to read this book in
the cool of the day; but as they sat on the long veranda, the voice of a maiden reading the
latest novel to a sewing group behind the blinds in the drawing-room; and the antics of a mule
and a boy in front of the store opposite; and the arrival of a spruce young man, who had just
ridden over from somewhere, a matter of ten miles' gallop, to get a medicinal potion for his
sick mother, and lingered chatting with the young ladies until we began to fear that his mother
would recover before his return; the coming and going of lean women in shackly wagons to trade
at the store; the coming home of the cows, splashing through the stream, hooking right and
left, and lowing for the hand of the milker,--all these interruptions, together with the generally
drowsy quiet of the approach of evening, interfered with the study of the Elements. And when
the travelers, after a refreshing rest, went on their way next morning, considering the Elements
and the pianos and the refinement, to say nothing of the cuisine, which is not treated of in
the text-book referred to, they were content with a bill double that of brother Egger, in his
brick magnificence.

The simple truth is, that the traveler in this region must be content to feed on natural beauties.
And it is an unfortunate truth in natural history that the appetite for this sort of diet fails
after a time, if the inner man is not supplied with other sort of food. There is no landscape
in the world that is agreeable after two days of rusty-bacon and slack biscuit.

"How lovely this would be," exclaimed the Professor, if it had a background of beefsteak and
coffee!

We were riding along the west fork of the Laurel, distinguished locally as Three Top Creek,--or,
rather, we were riding in it, crossing it thirty-one times within six miles; a charming wood
(and water) road, under the shade of fine trees with the rhododendron illuminating the way,
gleaming in the forest and reflected in the stream, all the ten miles to Elk Cross Roads, our
next destination. We had heard a great deal about Elk Cross Roads; it was on the map, it was
down in the itinerary furnished by a member of the Coast Survey. We looked forward to it as
a sweet place of repose from the noontide heat. Alas! Elk Cross Roads is a dirty grocery store,
encumbered with dry-goods boxes, fly-blown goods, flies, loafers. In reply to our inquiry we
were told that they had nothing to eat, for us, and not a grain of feed for the horses. But
there was a man a mile farther on, who was well to do and had stores of food,--old man Tatern
would treat us in bang-up style. The difficulty of getting feed for the horses was chronic
all through the journey. The last corn crop had failed, the new oats and corn had not come
in, and the country was literally barren. We had noticed all along that the hens were taking
a vacation, and that chickens were not put forward as an article of diet.

We were unable, when we reached the residence of old man Tatem, to imagine how the local superstition
of his wealth arose. His house is of logs, with two rooms, a kitchen and a spare room, with
a low loft accessible by a ladder at the side of the chimney. The chimney is a huge construction
of stone, separating the two parts of the house; in fact, the chimney was built first, apparently,
and the two rooms were then built against it. The proprietor sat in a little railed veranda.
These Southern verandas give an air to the meanest dwelling, and they are much used; the family
sit here, and here are the washbasin and pail (which is filled from the neighboring spring-house),
and the row of milk-pans. The old man Tatern did not welcome us with enthusiasm; he had no
corn,--these were hard times. He looked like hard times, grizzled times, dirty times. It seemed
time out of mind since he had seen comb or razor, and although the lovely New River, along
which we had ridden to his house,--a broad, inviting stream,--was in sight across the meadow,
there was no evidence that he had ever made acquaintance with its cleansing waters. As to corn,
the necessities of the case and pay being dwelt on, perhaps he could find a dozen ears. A dozen
small cars he did find, and we trust that the horses found them.

We took a family dinner with old man Tatern in the kitchen, where there was a bed and a stove,--a
meal that the host seemed to enjoy, but which we could not make much of, except the milk; that
was good. A painful meal, on the whole, owing to the presence in the room of a grown-up daughter
with a graveyard cough, without physician or medicine, or comforts. Poor girl! just dying of
"a misery."

In the spare room were two beds; the walls were decorated with the gay-colored pictures of
patent-medicine advertisements--a favorite art adornment of the region; and a pile of ancient
illustrated papers with the usual patent-office report, the thoughtful gift of the member for
the district. The old man takes in the "Blue Ridge Baptist," a journal which we found largely
taken up with the experiences of its editor on his journeys roundabout in search of subscribers.
This newspaper was the sole communication of the family with the world at large, but the old
man thought he should stop it,--he did n't seem to get the worth of his money out of it. And
old man Tatem was a thrifty and provident man. On the hearth in this best room--as ornaments
or memento mori were a couple of marble gravestones, a short headstone and foot-stone, mounted
on bases and ready for use, except the lettering. These may not have been so mournful and significant
as they looked, nor the evidence of simple, humble faith; they may have been taken for debt.
But as parlor ornaments they had a fascination which we could not escape.

It was while we were bathing in the New River, that afternoon, and meditating on the grim,
unrelieved sort of life of our host, that the Professor said, "judging by the face of the 'Blue
Ridge Baptist,' he will charge us smartly for the few nubbins of corn and the milk." The face
did not deceive us; the charge was one dollar. At this rate it would have broken us to have
tarried with old man Tatem (perhaps he is not old, but that is the name he goes by) over night.

It was a hot afternoon, and it needed some courage to mount and climb the sandy hill leading
us away from the corn-crib of Tatem. But we entered almost immediately into fine stretches
of forest, and rode under the shade of great oaks. The way, which began by the New River, soon
led us over the hills to the higher levels of Watauga County. So far on our journey we had
been hemmed in by low hills, and without any distant or mountain outlooks. The excessive heat
seemed out of place at the elevation of over two thousand feet, on which we were traveling.
Boone, the county seat of Watauga County, was our destination, and, ever since morning, the
guideboards and the trend of the roads had notified us that everything in this region tends
towards Boone as a center of interest. The simple ingenuity of some of the guide-boards impressed
us. If, on coming to a fork, the traveler was to turn to the right, the sign read,

   To BOONE 10 M.
If he was to go to the left, it read, .M 01 ENOOB oT

A short ride of nine miles, on an ascending road, through an open, unfenced forest region,
brought us long before sundown to this capital. When we had ridden into its single street,
which wanders over gentle hills, and landed at the most promising of the taverns, the Friend
informed his comrade that Boone was 3250 feet above Albemarle Sound, and believed by its inhabitants
to be the highest village east of the Rocky Mountains. The Professor said that it might be
so, but it was a God-forsaken place. Its inhabitants numbered perhaps two hundred and fifty,
a few of them colored. It had a gaunt, shaky court-house and jail, a store or two, and two
taverns. The two taverns are needed to accommodate the judges and lawyers and their clients
during the session of the court. The court is the only excitement and the only amusement. It
is the event from which other events date. Everybody in the county knows exactly when court
sits, and when court breaks. During the session the whole county is practically in Boone, men,
women, and children. They camp there, they attend the trials, they take sides; half of them,
perhaps, are witnesses, for the region is litigious, and the neighborhood quarrels are entered
into with spirit. To be fond of lawsuits seems a characteristic of an isolated people in new
conditions. The early settlers of New England were.

Notwithstanding the elevation of Boone, which insured a pure air, the thermometer that afternoon
stood at from 85 to 89 deg. The flies enjoyed it. How they swarmed in this tavern! They would
have carried off all the food from the dining-room table (for flies do not mind eating off
oilcloth, and are not particular how food is cooked), but for the machine with hanging flappers
that swept the length of it; and they destroy all possibility of sleep except in the dark.
The mountain regions of North Carolina are free from mosquitoes, but the fly has settled there,
and is the universal scourge. This tavern, one end of which was a store, had a veranda in front,
and a back gallery, where there were evidences of female refinement in pots of plants and flowers.
The landlord himself kept tavern very much as a hostler would, but we had to make a note in
his favor that he had never heard of a milk punch. And it might as well be said here, for it
will have to be insisted on later, that the traveler, who has read about the illicit stills
till his imagination dwells upon the indulgence of his vitiated tastes in the mountains of
North Carolina, is doomed to disappointment. If he wants to make himself an exception to the
sober people whose cooking will make him long for the maddening bowl, he must bring his poison
with him. We had found no bread since we left Virginia; we had seen cornmeal and water, slack-baked;
we had seen potatoes fried in grease, and bacon incrusted with salt (all thirst-provokers),
but nothing to drink stronger than buttermilk. And we can say that, so far as our example is
concerned, we left the country as temperate as we found it. How can there be mint juleps (to
go into details) without ice? and in the summer there is probably not a pound of ice in all
the State north of Buncombe County.

There is nothing special to be said about Boone. We were anxious to reach it, we were glad
to leave it; we note as to all these places that our joy at departing always exceeds that on
arriving, which is a merciful provision of nature for people who must keep moving. This country
is settled by genuine Americans, who have the aboriginal primitive traits of the universal
Yankee nation. The front porch in the morning resembled a carpenter's shop; it was literally
covered with the whittlings of the row of natives who had spent the evening there in the sedative
occupation of whittling.

We took that morning a forest road to Valle Crusis, seven miles, through noble growths of oaks,
chestnuts, hemlocks, rhododendrons,--a charming wood road, leading to a place that, as usual,
did not keep the promise of its name. Valle Crusis has a blacksmith shop and a dirty, flyblown
store. While the Professor consulted the blacksmith about a loose shoe, the Friend carried
his weariness of life without provisions up to a white house on the hill, and negotiated for
boiled milk. This house was occupied by flies. They must have numbered millions, settled in
black swarms, covering tables, beds, walls, the veranda; the kitchen was simply a hive of them.
The only book in sight, Whewell's--"Elements of Morality," seemed to attract flies. Query,
Why should this have such a different effect from Porter's? A white house,--a pleasant-looking
house at a distance,--amiable, kindly people in it,--why should we have arrived there on its
dirty day? Alas! if we had been starving, Valle Crusis had nothing to offer us.

So we rode away, in the blazing heat, no poetry exuding from the Professor, eight miles to
Banner's Elk, crossing a mountain and passing under Hanging Rock, a conspicuous feature in
the landscape, and the only outcropping of rock we had seen: the face of a ledge, rounded up
into the sky, with a green hood on it. From the summit we had the first extensive prospect
during our journey. The road can be described as awful,--steep, stony, the horses unable to
make two miles an hour on it. Now and then we encountered a rude log cabin without barns or
outhouses, and a little patch of feeble corn. The women who regarded the passers from their
cabin doors were frowzy and looked tired. What with the heat and the road and this discouraged
appearance of humanity, we reached the residence of Dugger, at Banner's Elk, to which we had
been directed, nearly exhausted. It is no use to represent this as a dash across country on
impatient steeds. It was not so. The love of truth is stronger than the desire of display.
And for this reason it is impossible to say that Mr. Dugger, who is an excellent man, lives
in a clean and attractive house, or that he offers much that the pampered child of civilization
can eat. But we shall not forget the two eggs, fresh from the hens, whose temperature must
have been above the normal, nor the spring-house in the glen, where we found a refuge from
the flies and the heat. The higher we go, the hotter it is. Banner's Elk boasts an elevation
of thirty-five to thirty-seven hundred feet.

We were not sorry, towards sunset, to descend along the Elk River towards Cranberry Forge.
The Elk is a lovely stream, and, though not very clear, has a reputation for trout; but all
this region was under operation of a three-years game law, to give the trout a chance to multiply,
and we had no opportunity to test the value of its reputation. Yet a boy whom we encountered
had a good string of quarter-pound trout, which he had taken out with a hook and a feather
rudely tied on it, to resemble a fly. The road, though not to be commended, was much better
than that of the morning, the forests grew charming in the cool of the evening, the whippoorwill
sang, and as night fell the wanderers, in want of nearly everything that makes life desirable,
stopped at the Iron Company's hotel, under the impression that it was the only comfortable
hotel in North Carolina.

II

Cranberry Forge is the first wedge of civilization fairly driven into the northwest mountains
of North Carolina. A narrow-gauge railway, starting from Johnson City, follows up the narrow
gorge of the Doe River, and pushes into the heart of the iron mines at Cranberry, where there
is a blast furnace; and where a big company store, rows of tenement houses, heaps of slag and
refuse ore, interlacing tracks, raw embankments, denuded hillsides, and a blackened landscape,
are the signs of a great devastating American enterprise. The Cranberry iron is in great esteem,
as it has the peculiar quality of the Swedish iron. There are remains of old furnaces lower
down the stream, which we passed on our way. The present "plant" is that of a Philadelphia
company, whose enterprise has infused new life into all this region, made it accessible, and
spoiled some pretty scenery.

When we alighted, weary, at the gate of the pretty hotel, which crowns a gentle hill and commands
a pleasing, evergreen prospect of many gentle hills, a mile or so below the works, and wholly
removed from all sordid associations, we were at the point of willingness that the whole country
should be devastated by civilization. In the local imagination this hotel of the company is
a palace of unequaled magnificence, but probably its good taste, comfort, and quiet elegance
are not appreciated after all. There is this to be said about Philadelphia,--and it will go
far in pleading for it in the Last Day against its monotonous rectangularity and the babel-like
ambition of its Public Building,--that wherever its influence extends, there will be found
comfortable lodgings and the luxury of an undeniably excellent cuisine. The visible seal that
Philadelphia sets on its enterprise all through the South is a good hotel.

This Cottage Beautiful has on two sides a wide veranda, set about with easy chairs; cheerful
parlors and pretty chambers, finished in native woods, among which are conspicuous the satin
stripes of the cucumber-tree; luxurious beds, and an inviting table ordered by a Philadelphia
landlady, who knows a beefsteak from a boot-tap. Is it "low" to dwell upon these things of
the senses, when one is on a tour in search of the picturesque? Let the reader ride from Abingdon
through a wilderness of cornpone and rusty bacon, and then judge. There were, to be sure, novels
lying about, and newspapers, and fragments of information to be picked up about a world into
which the travelers seemed to emerge. They, at least, were satisfied, and went off to their
rooms with the restful feeling that they had arrived somewhere and no unquiet spirit at morn
would say "to horse." To sleep, perchance to dream of Tatem and his household cemetery; and
the Professor was heard muttering in his chamber,

  "Weary with toil, I haste me to my bed,
   The dear repose for limbs with travel tired;
   But then begins a journey in my head,
   To work my mind, when body's work's expir'd."

The morning was warm (the elevation of the hotel must be between twenty-five hundred and three
thousand feet), rainy, mildly rainy; and the travelers had nothing better to do than lounge
upon the veranda, read feeble ten-cent fictions, and admire the stems of the white birches,
glistening in the moisture, and the rhododendron--trees, twenty feet high, which were shaking
off their last pink blossoms, and look down into the valley of the Doe. It is not an exciting
landscape, nothing bold or specially wild in it, but restful with the monotony of some of the
wooded Pennsylvania hills.

Sunday came up smiling, a lovely day, but offering no church privileges, for the ordinance
of preaching is only occasional in this region. The ladies of the hotel have, however, gathered
in the valley a Sunday-school of fifty children from the mountain cabins. A couple of rainy
days, with the thermometer rising to 80 deg., combined with natural laziness to detain the
travelers in this cottage of ease. They enjoyed this the more because it was on their consciences
that they should visit Linville Falls, some twenty-five miles eastward, long held up before
them as the most magnificent feature of this region, and on no account to be omitted. Hence,
naturally, a strong desire to omit it. The Professor takes bold ground against these abnormal
freaks of nature, and it was nothing to him that the public would demand that we should see
Linville Falls. In the first place, we could find no one who had ever seen them, and we spent
two days in catechizing natives and strangers. The nearest we came to information was from
a workman at the furnace, who was born and raised within three miles of the Falls. He had heard
of people going there. He had never seen them himself. It was a good twenty-five miles there,
over the worst road in the State we'd think it thirty before we got there. Fifty miles of such
travel to see a little water run down-hill! The travelers reflected. Every country has a local
waterfall of which it boasts; they had seen a great many. One more would add little to the
experience of life. The vagueness of information, to be sure, lured the travelers to undertake
the journey; but the temptation was resisted--something ought to be left for the next explorer--and
so Linville remains a thing of the imagination.

Towards evening, July 29, between showers, the Professor and the Friend rode along the narrow-gauge
road, down Johnson's Creek, to Roan Station, the point of departure for ascending Roan Mountain.
It was a ride of an hour and a half over a fair road, fringed with rhododendrons, nearly blossomless;
but at a point on the stream this sturdy shrub had formed a long bower where under a table
might have been set for a temperance picnic, completely overgrown with wild grape, and still
gay with bloom. The habitations on the way are mostly board shanties and mean frame cabins,
but the railway is introducing ambitious architecture here and there in the form of ornamental
filigree work on flimsy houses; ornamentation is apt to precede comfort in our civilization.

Roan Station is on the Doe River (which flows down from Roan Mountain), and is marked at 1265
feet above the sea. The visitor will find here a good hotel, with open wood fires (not ungrateful
in a July evening), and obliging people. This railway from Johnson City, hanging on the edge
of the precipices that wall the gorge of the Doe, is counted in this region by the inhabitants
one of the engineering wonders of the world. The tourist is urged by all means to see both
it and Linville Falls.

The tourist on horseback, in search of exercise and recreation, is not probably expected to
take stock of moral conditions. But this Mitchell County, although it was a Union county during
the war and is Republican in politics (the Southern reader will perhaps prefer another adverb
to "although"), has had the worst possible reputation. The mountains were hiding-places of
illicit distilleries; the woods were full of grog-shanties, where the inflaming fluid was sold
as "native brandy," quarrels and neighborhood difficulties were frequent, and the knife and
pistol were used on the slightest provocation. Fights arose about boundaries and the title
to mica mines, and with the revenue officers; and force was the arbiter of all disputes. Within
the year four murders were committed in the sparsely settled county. Travel on any of the roads
was unsafe. The tone of morals was what might be expected with such lawlessness. A lady who
came up on the road on the 4th of July, when an excursion party of country people took possession
of the cars, witnessed a scene and heard language past belief. Men, women, and children drank
from whisky bottles that continually circulated, and a wild orgy resulted. Profanity, indecent
talk on topics that even the license of the sixteenth century would not have tolerated, and
freedom of manners that even Teniers would have shrunk from putting on canvas, made the journey
horrible.

The unrestrained license of whisky and assault and murder had produced a reaction a few months
previous to our visit. The people had risen up in their indignation and broken up the groggeries.
So far as we observed temperance prevailed, backed by public-opinion. In our whole ride through
the mountain region we saw only one or two places where liquor was sold.

