PHINEAS FINN

The Irish Member

by

ANTHONY TROLLOPE

First published in serial form in St. Paul's Magazine beginning in 1867 and in book form in 1869

CONTENTS

   VOLUME I

            I. Phineas Finn Proposes to Stand for Loughshane
           II. Phineas Finn Is Elected for Loughshane
          III. Phineas Finn Takes His Seat
           IV. Lady Laura Standish
            V. Mr. and Mrs. Low
           VI. Lord Brentford's Dinner
          VII. Mr. and Mrs. Bunce
         VIII. The News about Mr. Mildmay and Sir Everard
           IX. The New Government
            X. Violet Effingham
           XI. Lord Chiltern
          XII. Autumnal Prospects
         XIII. Saulsby Wood
          XIV. Loughlinter
           XV. Donald Bean's Pony
          XVI. Phineas Finn Returns to Killaloe
         XVII. Phineas Finn Returns to London
        XVIII. Mr. Turnbull
          XIX. Lord Chiltern Rides His Horse Bonebreaker
           XX. The Debate on the Ballot
          XXI. "Do be punctual"
         XXII. Lady Baldock at Home
        XXIII. Sunday in Grosvenor Place
         XXIV. The Willingford Bull
          XXV. Mr. Turnbull's Carriage Stops the Way
         XXVI. "The First Speech"
        XXVII. Phineas Discussed
       XXVIII. The Second Reading Is Carried
         XXIX. A Cabinet Meeting
          XXX. Mr. Kennedy's Luck
         XXXI. Finn for Loughton
        XXXII. Lady Laura Kennedy's Headache
       XXXIII. Mr. Slide's Grievance
        XXXIV. Was He Honest?
         XXXV. Mr. Monk upon Reform
        XXXVI. Phineas Finn Makes Progress
       XXXVII. A Rough Encounter

   VOLUME II

      XXXVIII. The Duel
        XXXIX. Lady Laura Is Told
           XL. Madame Max Goesler
          XLI. Lord Fawn
         XLII. Lady Baldock Does Not Send a Card to Phineas Finn
        XLIII. Promotion
         XLIV. Phineas and His Friends
          XLV. Miss Effingham's Four Lovers
         XLVI. The Mousetrap
        XLVII. Mr. Mildmay's Bill
       XLVIII. "The Duke"
         XLIX. The Duellists Meet
            L. Again Successful
           LI. Troubles at Loughlinter
          LII. The First Blow
         LIII. Showing How Phineas Bore the Blow
          LIV. Consolation
           LV. Lord Chiltern at Saulsby
          LVI. What the People in Marylebone Thought
         LVII. The Top Brick of the Chimney
        LVIII. Rara Avis in Terris
          LIX. The Earl's Wrath
           LX. Madame Goesler's Politics
          LXI. Another Duel
         LXII. The Letter That Was Sent to Brighton
        LXIII. Showing How the Duke Stood His Ground
         LXIV. The Horns
          LXV. The Cabinet Minister at Killaloe
         LXVI. Victrix
        LXVII. Job's Comforters
       LXVIII. The Joint Attack
         LXIX. The Temptress
          LXX. The Prime Minister's House
         LXXI. Comparing Notes
        LXXII. Madame Goesler's Generosity
       LXXIII. Amantium Iræ
        LXXIV. The Beginning of the End
         LXXV. P. P. C.
        LXXVI. Conclusion

VOLUME I

CHAPTER I

Phineas Finn Proposes to Stand for Loughshane

Dr. Finn, of Killaloe, in county Clare, was as well known in those parts,--the confines, that
is, of the counties Clare, Limerick, Tipperary, and Galway,--as was the bishop himself who
lived in the same town, and was as much respected. Many said that the doctor was the richer
man of the two, and the practice of his profession was extended over almost as wide a district.
Indeed the bishop whom he was privileged to attend, although a Roman Catholic, always spoke
of their dioceses being conterminate. It will therefore be understood that Dr. Finn,--Malachi
Finn was his full name,--had obtained a wide reputation as a country practitioner in the west
of Ireland. And he was a man sufficiently well to do, though that boast made by his friends,
that he was as warm a man as the bishop, had but little truth to support it. Bishops in Ireland,
if they live at home, even in these days, are very warm men; and Dr. Finn had not a penny in
the world for which he had not worked hard. He had, moreover, a costly family, five daughters
and one son, and, at the time of which we are speaking, no provision in the way of marriage
or profession had been made for any of them. Of the one son, Phineas, the hero of the following
pages, the mother and five sisters were very proud. The doctor was accustomed to say that his
goose was as good as any other man's goose, as far as he could see as yet; but that he should
like some very strong evidence before he allowed himself to express an opinion that the young
bird partook, in any degree, of the qualities of a swan. From which it may be gathered that
Dr. Finn was a man of common-sense.

Phineas had come to be a swan in the estimation of his mother and sisters by reason of certain
early successes at college. His father, whose religion was not of that bitter kind in which
we in England are apt to suppose that all the Irish Roman Catholics indulge, had sent his son
to Trinity; and there were some in the neighbourhood of Killaloe,--patients, probably, of Dr.
Duggin, of Castle Connell, a learned physician who had spent a fruitless life in endeavouring
to make head against Dr. Finn,--who declared that old Finn would not be sorry if his son were
to turn Protestant and go in for a fellowship. Mrs. Finn was a Protestant, and the five Miss
Finns were Protestants, and the doctor himself was very much given to dining out among his
Protestant friends on a Friday. Our Phineas, however, did not turn Protestant up in Dublin,
whatever his father's secret wishes on that subject may have been. He did join a debating society,
to success in which his religion was no bar; and he there achieved a sort of distinction which
was both easy and pleasant, and which, making its way down to Killaloe, assisted in engendering
those ideas as to swanhood of which maternal and sisterly minds are so sweetly susceptible.
"I know half a dozen old windbags at the present moment," said the doctor, "who were great
fellows at debating clubs when they were boys." "Phineas is not a boy any longer," said Mrs.
Finn. "And windbags don't get college scholarships," said Matilda Finn, the second daughter.
"But papa always snubs Phinny," said Barbara, the youngest. Nowhere will the sovereignty of the feeling that you imputed
so fond of music, placed worse than if they were in the composer during requires the creation
and interprets this as an enthusiastic improvise. The walking pace pre-existing work, through which
a piece of music that the composer first only in outline envisaged until gouged in the individual
bars to specific shape is, at best the same in the sensitive formal variety of the orchestra,
is as sober and complicated, that they can barely understand, who do not even put hands on it once.
Not just about fugal or contrapuntal principles in which we consider gauging note against note,
and the flowing Rondo, the melodious aria requires, as our language is important, calls a "working
out" the smallest. The work of the composer is plastic in nature and that of the visual artist comparable.
Similarly, as the composer of his material may not free be grown, because, like him, he has
added make his (musical) ideal objective, to create a pure form.

That might have been overlooked by Rosenkranz, perhaps, if he noticed
the contradiction, but leaves unresolved why the women who still rely
chiefly on the nature of feeling ?

Have got to play in the composition of nothing [25] The reason - besides the general conditions
which women of intellectual creations also keep - just in the plastic moment of composition, which
is not a renunciation of subjectivity less, although in different Direction demanded, as the visual
arts. If the strength and vitality of feeling really relevant for the composer would be would
the total absence of female composers along with so many writers and painters are hard to explain.
Not Feeling composed, but specifically musical, artistically trained talent. Delightful It
sounds, therefore, if the FL Schubart »masterful Andante Composer Stamitz" quite seriously
as a natural "consequence of his emotional heart" hinstellt, [26] or Christian Role assures
us, "an affable, affectionate nature makes us skillful, slow Sentences "to make masterpieces. [27]

[25]
Rosenkranz, psychology. 2. Edition p. 60

[26] Schubart, "ideas on the aesthetics of music". 1806th

  [27] New perceptions to accommodate the music.

  "Berlin 1784th P. 102

  

Without central heat, nothing has been accomplished great or beautiful in life. The feeling is
the composer, as with any poet who developed rich find, but it is not the generating factor
in it. Even if a strong, certain pathos filled him completely, so that the same occasion and
dedication are some art, but - as we in the wild of music to know which portray a particular
affect neither the ability nor the Profession has - never the object.

An inner singing, not a mere inner feeling drives the musically talented to Invention of a piece
of music.

We have interpreted the act of composing as a form and as such it is quite objectively. The composer
formed an independent beauty. The infinitely more expressive, spiritual Substance of the sounds
it makes, that the subjectivity in them fine in the way of his Forming characteristics. Since even
the individual musical elements, a characteristic expression is, they are dominant traits of the composer:
sentimentality, energy, cheerfulness etc., through the consistent preference of certain keys,
rhythms, transitions very well expressed by the general factors which is capable of playing
music. Once absorbed by the artwork, but these traits are interested now than musical determinations as the
character of the composition, not the composer. [28] As the emotional and what the witty Composer brings
the graceful or the sublime is, first and foremost music, objective Structure. Her works are
distinguished by distinctive characteristics and as an overall picture mirrored the individuality
of their creators, but they were all that one like the others, created as an independent beauty
purely musical for her sake.

  
  [28] Which caution in drawing conclusions from the compositions on
  the human character of the composer is necessary and what is clearly
  a danger that the imagination for the sober examination Detriment
  of truth influenced, which has recently include the Beethoven's
  biography of AB Marx, and the working musically biased panegyric
  of a careful examination of the Facts about to be lifted and therefore
  believed by Thayer's exact Source research in many areas has been
drastically revised.

Not the actual feeling of the composer, as a merely subjective affection, it is which evokes the
same mood in the listeners. Acknowledged is the music such a compelling power arises, it is
recognized by the cause as something objective in it, for only this forces in everything beautiful.
These lenses are the musical determinations of a piece. Strictly aesthetic can be said of
any subject, it sounds dull, or not proud, But it was an expression of pride or turbid feelings
of the composer. Still farther are the character of musical works such as the social and political
conditions, which dominate his time. That musical expression of the theme is a necessary consequence his way and
no other elected Tonfaktoren; that this choice of psychological or cultural history Causes would
have emerged on which certain works (not merely of the year and place of birth) be demonstrated,
and demonstrated this relationship would be interesting as always, first a merely historical
or biographical fact. The aesthetic consideration can be based on
circumstances which are beyond the artwork itself.

As surely as the individuality of the composer in his creations, a symbolic expression find is
so wrong it would be to want to derive from this personal moment
terms, their true reasoning only in the objectivity of the artistic
image found.

  Then , the notion of style. [29]
  
  [29] Forkel panacea is wrong therefore derive the various thinking
  musical spellings of "the difference" that the style of each composer
  is a reason that "the enthusiastic, the inflated, the cold, childish
  and pedantic Man in the context of his thoughts and unbearable pomposity
  Emphasis brings, or is affected and frosty.

" (Theory of music. 1777th P. 23)

We want to be understood in the style of music on the part of his musical determinations Know
as the consummate art, as in the expression of creative thought as a habit appears. The master proven
"style, in that he clearly grasped the idea of ​​realizing everything Petty, inappropriate,
trivial and so omitted in every technical detail of the artistic Attitude of the whole maintains
consistently. With Vischer (aesthetics § 527) we would be the word "Style" in music, use absolute
and, disregarding the historical and individual Divisions say, this
composer has style, in the sense that we say of someone: he has Character.

The

architectural side of the Music and Fine joins the style in question quite clearly the fore.
A higher law than the mere proportions, the style of a Piece of music by a single clock injured,
who, blameless in itself, is not reflected of it all right. Just as an inappropriate in the
arabesque structure, we call a bad taste Cadence or modulation, which, as inconsistency from
uniform application of the concept jump off. Of course, this unit is in another, higher meaning to take,
after which they Also the contrast, the episode and some freedom within itself.

In the composition of a musical piece therefore finds a renunciation of one's own personal Emotion
only to the extent than the boundaries of a predominantly objective, forming activity . Allow

The act, which can go in the immediate outflow of emotion in music before him, is not so much
the invention of a tone work, rather than reproduction, performance, of it. That the philosophical
notion that composed piece of music, regardless of its performance, the finished work of art
must not prevent us, the division of music in composition and reproduction, one of the most
influential art of our specialties, across to note where it contributes to the explanation of
a phenomenon.

In the investigation of the subjective impression of the music she makes is very preferably
submitted. The player is indulged in, by the feeling that dominates it just, just to free
his instrument and in his presentation of the wild storms, the ardent glow, the serene strength
and joy to breathe inside. Even the physically Radicals, by the my finger tips, the inner vibrato
abruptly pushes the string or the bow breaks or even the song itself is sounding, makes the most
personal outpouring of sentiment in music-making actually quite possible. A subjectivity is
here directly in tones sounding effect shaping not only mute them. The composer creates slow,
interrupted, the player irresistible in flight, the composer for the stay, the players met for the
moment. The tone work is formed, the performance we are experiencing. So then is the gefühlsentäußernde
and exciting force in the music Reproduktionsakt which the electric spark from murky Mystery attracts
and makes the heart skip the audience. Of course, the player can only the install, which contains
the composition, but this will force a little more than the accuracy of the notes. "The spirit
of the composer, it is indeed only, which the player can guess and obvious" - Probably, but
just this appropriation at the moment of re-creation is his, the player's mind. The same piece
harassed or delighted, according as it refreshes to sounding real. It is, as the same man,
even in its glorious enthusiasm, the other in sullen everyday conceived. The artificial music
box can not feel the listener To move but it is the easiest musician when he is full of soul
with his songs.

The highest immediacy, the disclosure of a free state of mind through music, where creation and performance
into an act coincide. This is done in the free imagination. Where this does not formally artistic,
but with predominantly subjective tendency (abnormal a greater sense) occurs because the expression,
which the player the buttons elicits a be true speech. Violation of free speech censorship, it
unleashed give yourself in the middle in a harsh spell on himself has ever experienced, which
is readily know how because Love, jealousy, joy and sorrow openly and noise but also from their
unfahndbar night her celebrate, singing their say, make their battles until the master is calling
them back, calm, disturbing.

Liberated by the movement of the play divides the expression of the listener Played with. Let
us turn to this.

We often see it taken from a music, happy or sad moved far beyond the merely aesthetic pleasure
also in the innermost carried up or shaken. The existence of this Impact is undeniable, and
truly genuine, often reaching the highest levels, to finally announced,
but that we needed to devote to it a descriptive linger.

This is only twofold: - where the difference from other movements of the specific nature of feeling
This feeling of excitement through the music lies, and how much of this effect is aesthetically.

We also have the ability to act on the feelings, recognize all the arts, without exception, yet
is the way how the music carries it, something specific, just its peculiar not be denied. Music
affects the mood quickly and more intensively than any Another beauty of art. With a few chords
we can be handed a mood that a poem only through prolonged exposure, an image achieved through
sustained Into Thinking would, although these two, the advantage to the art of music, the whole
circle of ideas serve, is what we think of the feelings of pleasure and pain depending know.
Not only faster, also the immediate and intense is the effect of
the sounds.

The other arts To persuade the music comes over us. This their peculiar violence experienced
on our mind we are strongest when we are in a state of greater excitement or down mood.

In emotional states, where neither painting nor poetry, neither statues nor buildings more capable
are we to irritate some and attention, music is still power on us, precisely violently than
usual who hear painful excited mood music, or make must, she swings like vinegar in the wound.
No art is so deep and sharp as in our Soul cut. Form and character of what is heard then lose all
their importance, be it nächtigtrübes adagio or a light sparkling
waltz, we loswinden us can not by his Sounds - not the piece of music,
we feel, but the sounds themselves, the music as a formless demonic
violence, as it moves to the glowing nerve of our whole body.

As Goethe in old age again experienced the violence of love, it woke him in the same time an
unprecedented receptivity to music. He writes about those wonderful Marie Bader Days (1823) to
Zelter: "The immense power of music to me these days! The voice Milder, the rich sound of
Szymanowska, and even the public Exhibition of the local Hunter Corps unfold me how to make
a fist friendly flat leaves. I am quite convinced that I had in the first measure your Singakademie
leave. " To judiciously so as not to recognize the large share of nervous excitement in this
phenomenon, Goethe concludes with the words: "You'd heal me from a morbid irritability, because
it is actually considered to be the cause of that phenomenon. "[30] These observations must
already make out that often in the musical effects on the feeling a strange, not purely aesthetic
element to the game was. A purely esthetic effect addresses the full health of the nervous and
is not diseased to more or Less of it.

  

[30] Correspondence between Goethe and Zelter. 3. Band, p. 332

The more intensive exposure to the music on our nervous system vindicates her is indeed a Power
excess over the other arts. But if we examine the nature of this power surplus we see that he was
a qualitative, and that the peculiar quality of physiological Calm conditions. The sensuous
factor that contributes to the enjoyment of beauty of every intellectual, is on the art of music
than in the other arts. The music, by their body loose material the most spiritual, on the part of
their non-objective form of the game the most sensual art shows this
mysterious union of two opposites with a keen desire assimilation
the nerve, this is no less enigmatic organs of the invisible telegraph
service between Body and soul.

The intense impact of music on the nervous life is a fact of psychology as From Physiology fully
recognized. Unfortunately, there is no adequate explanation of them. It can never be the psychology
of the Magnetic-Compulsive fathom the impression that certain chords, timbres and melodies
on the whole body of people exercise because first place it here on a specific stimulation of
the nerve counts.

Neither has the Triumph advancing science of physiology something crucial to our problem brought.

As
for the musical monographs of this hybrid object, they almost pull it continuously before,
the art of music by spreading brilliant showpieces in an impressive to bring prestige of miracles,
as in the context of scientific research the music lives on his nerves with our true and necessary
result. This alone But we do not, and neither the loyalty of a PhD Albrecht conviction, which his
patients Music as sweaty means prescribed, nor unbelief Oersted, of the howling a dog in certain
keys explained by rational means of beatings, which the same been trained to be Howling [31].

[31]
"The spirit of nature." III, 9

  

To many music fans, it should be known that we have a whole literature on the physical Effects of
music and its application to possess medicinal purposes. An interesting curiosities rich, but
unreliable in the observation, unscientific in the declaration to seek Most of these musico-GP
is a very composed and incidental quality of music aufzustelzen to self-efficacy.

From Pythagoras, is said to have first miracle cures performed through music, to the present day
temporarily dipped again and again, more by example than by new ideas, enriched teaching in
that one can to the exciting or soothing effect of the notes on the physical Organism as a cure
for many diseases in bringing application. Peter Lichtenthal tells us at length in his "Musical
Doctor" as the power of sound and gout, Hüftweh, ​​epilepsy, catalepsy, plague, delirium, convulsions,
nervous fever, and even been "stupid" (stupiditas) was healed. [32]

  [32] The highest confusion reached this doctrine in the famous Doctor
  Baptista Porta, of which the terms of medicinal and Musical instrument
  combined and dropsy with a flute healed, which was made of the
  stems of hellebores. One of the populus manufactured musical instrument
  should hip pain, a heal from Zimtrohr carved fainting. (Encyclopédie,
  article "Musique".)
  

With regard to the justification of this theory, these writers can be divided into two classes
. Share

Some argue from the body and found the healing power of
music to the physical Action of sound waves, which message is through
the auditory nerve and other nervous general impression conveyed by
such a salutary shock response of the disturbed body.

The emotions, which also made itself felt, were only a result of this nervous shock, evoke passions
not only by certain physical changes, but these in their turn are able to produce their corresponding
passions.

According to this theory, which (under the precedence of the Englishman Webb) Nikolai, Schneider,
Lichtenthal JJ Engel, Sulzer including attachments, we would not
be the art of music moves differently than about our windows and doors
that are beginning to tremble with a strong music.

As supportive gives examples of how the servant Boyles, the teeth began to bleed as soon as he heard sharpen
a saw, or many people, which when scratched on a knife point Glass get convulsions.

This is just not music. That music with those so hard on the nerves acting appearances the same
substrate, the sound tells us is important to be enough for future consequences, here is -
a materialistic view opposite - emphasize only that the art of music
only then begin, where to stop those isolated sound effects, indeed,
the melancholy, in which can move the listener an adagio, with the
physical sensation of a shrill cacophony is not to be compared.

The other half of our authors (among them Kausch and most aestheticians) explains the healing effects
of music on the psychological side. Music - argue it - generates emotions and passions in the mind,
emotions have sharp movements in the Nervous system results in violent movements in the nervous
system causing a healing response in the diseased organism.

This reasoning, on the jumps do not even alluded to will need to be in the mentioned ideal "psychological"
school against the earlier material championed so firm that, under the authority of the Englishman
Whytt, even all the physiology Despite denying the connection to the auditory nerve with other
nerves, according to a physical Transmission of the stimulus received by the ear on the whole
organism is of course impossible.

The idea of ​​music by certain emotions as love, sadness, anger, delight in the soul to attract, heal
the body through which charitable excitement does not sound so bad. Us is always a delicious parere,
which one of our most famous scientist gave the so-called "Goldberger's
electromagnetic chains."

He said it was not identified, whether by virtue of an electric current to cure certain diseases
- but that was agreed that the "Goldberger's chains" to produce any electrical current capable
are. Applied to our Tondoktoren, it means: It is possible that certain emotions emotions a happy
crisis in physical illnesses cause, - but it is not possible bring forth through music any time
any mind affects.

In it are two theories, the psychological and physiological, agreed that it made unsafe conditions
much more serious consequences of the releases and finally the most dubious practical conclusion
drawn from it.

Logical exhibitions may be a cure have fallen about, but found that as yet no doctor ever led
his typhoid fever patients to send in Meyerbeer's "Prophet", or pull out instead of the lancet a
French horn, uncomfortable.

The physical effect of music is neither so strong nor so sure yet of mental and aesthetic requirements
regardless so, yet at last treated as arbitrary, that it may come
as a real therapeutic agents.

Each carries with the aid of music filled the character of a cure
led exceptional case, the Never succeed in the music was due solely,
but also of special, perhaps depended on very specific physical and
mental conditions.

It is very remarkable, that the only use of music, which actually occurs in medicine, namely
in the Treatment of lunatics, preferably reflected on the spiritual side of the musical effect.
Modern psychiatry is well known used music in many cases and with happy results. This is based neither
on the physical shock to the nervous system, nor on the Excitement of the passions, but on the
exhilarating soothing influence which the exercise half dissipative, semi-addictive game of tons to a
darkened or overwrought mind able. Listen to the mentally ill and the sensuous, not the artistic
of the piece, he might be if he listened with attention, even on one, albeit minor Level of
aesthetic view.

As for all this musical-medical works for the right knowledge of music ? Help The confirmation
of a strong physical excitement has always been observed in all "Through music caused" emotions
"and" passions.

Once it is established that an integral Part of the music produced by emotion is physical,
it follows further that this phenomenon occurring as much in our nervous life, even from this
side of his physical must be explored. It can, therefore, the musicians on this issue is no scientific
Conviction form without making the results known in which the current Position of physiology in
investigating the relationship of the music keeps with the feelings.

Let us follow the course, which must take a melody to affect our state of mind, we find their way
from the vibrating tool to the auditory nerve, especially after the
epoch-making Enrichment of this area by Helmholtz's "theory of the
sensations of tone" sufficiently elucidated.

 "Let me assure you I wouldn't change my views in
politics either for you or for the Earl, though each of you carried seats in your breeches
pockets. If I go into Parliament, I shall go there as a sound Liberal,--not to support a party,
but to do the best I can for the country. I tell you so, and I shall tell the Earl the same."

Barrington Erle turned away in disgust. Such language was to him simply disgusting. It fell
upon his ears as false maudlin sentiment falls on the ears of the ordinary honest man of the
world. Barrington Erle was a man ordinarily honest. He would not have been untrue to his mother's
brother, William Mildmay, the great Whig Minister of the day, for any earthly consideration.
He was ready to work with wages or without wages. He was really zealous in the cause, not asking
very much for himself. He had some undefined belief that it was much better for the country
that Mr. Mildmay should be in power than that Lord de Terrier should be there. He was convinced
that Liberal politics were good for Englishmen, and that Liberal politics and the Mildmay party
were one and the same thing. It would be unfair to Barrington Erle to deny to him some praise
for patriotism. But he hated the very name of independence in Parliament, and when he was told
of any man, that that man intended to look to measures and not to men, he regarded that man
as being both unstable as water and dishonest as the wind. No good could possibly come from
such a one, and much evil might and probably would come. Such a politician was a Greek to Barrington
Erle, from whose hands he feared to accept even the gift of a vote. Parliamentary hermits were
distasteful to him, and dwellers in political caves were regarded by him with aversion as being
either knavish or impractical. With a good Conservative opponent he could shake hands almost
as readily as with a good Whig ally; but the man who was neither flesh nor fowl was odious
to him. According to his theory of parliamentary government, the House of Commons should be
divided by a marked line, and every member should be required to stand on one side of it or
on the other. "If not with me, at any rate be against me," he would have said to every representative
of the people in the name of the great leader whom he followed. He thought that debates were
good, because of the people outside,--because they served to create that public opinion which
was hereafter to be used in creating some future House of Commons; but he did not think it
possible that any vote should be given on a great question, either this way or that, as the
result of a debate; and he was certainly assured in his own opinion that any such changing
of votes would be dangerous, revolutionary, and almost unparliamentary. A member's vote,--except
on some small crotchety open question thrown out for the amusement of crotchety members,--was
due to the leader of that member's party. Such was Mr. Erle's idea of the English system of
Parliament, and, lending semi-official assistance as he did frequently to the introduction
of candidates into the House, he was naturally anxious that his candidates should be candidates
after his own heart. When, therefore, Phineas Finn talked of measures and not men, Barrington
Erle turned away in open disgust. But he remembered the youth and extreme rawness of the lad,
and he remembered also the careers of other men.

Barrington Erle was forty, and experience had taught him something. After a few seconds, he
brought himself to think mildly of the young man's vanity,--as of the vanity of a plunging
colt who resents the liberty even of a touch. "By the end of the first session the thong will
be cracked over his head, as he patiently assists in pulling the coach up hill, without producing
from him even a flick of his tail," said Barrington Erle to an old parliamentary friend.

"If he were to come out after all on the wrong side," said the parliamentary friend.

Erle admitted that such a trick as that would be unpleasant, but he thought that old Lord Tulia
was hardly equal to so clever a stratagem.

Phineas went to Ireland, and walked over the course at Loughshane. He called upon Lord Tulla,
and heard that venerable nobleman talk a great deal of nonsense. To tell the truth of Phineas,
I must confess that he wished to talk the nonsense himself; but the Earl would not hear him,
and put him down very quickly. "We won't discuss politics, if you please, Mr. Finn; because,
as I have already said, I am throwing aside all political considerations." Phineas, therefore,
was not allowed to express his views on the government of the country in the Earl's sitting-room
at Castlemorris. There was, however, a good time coming; and so, for the present, he allowed
the Earl to ramble on about the sins of his brother George, and the want of all proper pedigree
on the part of the new Dean of Kilfenora. The conference ended with an assurance on the part
of Lord Tulla that if the Loughshaners chose to elect Mr. Phineas Finn he would not be in the
least offended. The electors did elect Mr. Phineas Finn,--perhaps for the reason given by one
of the Dublin Conservative papers, which declared that it was all the fault of the Carlton
Club in not sending a proper candidate. There was a great deal said about the matter, both
in London and Dublin, and the blame was supposed to fall on the joint shoulders of George Morris
and his elder brother. In the meantime, our hero, Phineas Finn, had been duly elected member
of Parliament for the borough of Loughshane.

The Finn family could not restrain their triumphings at Killaloe, and I do not know that it
would have been natural had they done so. A gosling from such a flock does become something
of a real swan by getting into Parliament. The doctor had his misgivings,--had great misgivings,
fearful forebodings; but there was the young man elected, and he could not help it. He could
not refuse his right hand to his son or withdraw his paternal assistance because that son had
been specially honoured among the young men of his country. So he pulled out of his hoard what
sufficed to pay off outstanding debts,--they were not heavy,--and undertook to allow Phineas
two hundred and fifty pounds a year as long as the session should last.

There was a widow lady living at Killaloe who was named Mrs. Flood Jones, and she had a daughter.
She had a son also, born to inherit the property of the late Floscabel Flood Jones of Floodborough,
as soon as that property should have disembarrassed itself; but with him, now serving with
his regiment in India, we shall have no concern. Mrs. Flood Jones was living modestly at Killaloe
on her widow's jointure,--Floodborough having, to tell the truth, pretty nearly fallen into
absolute ruin,--and with her one daughter, Mary. Now on the evening before the return of Phineas
Finn, Esq., M.P., to London, Mrs. and Miss Flood Jones drank tea at the doctor's house.

"It won't make a bit of change in him," Barbara Finn said to her friend Mary, up in some bedroom
privacy before the tea-drinking ceremonies had altogether commenced.

"Oh, it must," said Mary.

"I tell you it won't, my dear; he is so good and so true."

"I know he is good, Barbara; and as for truth, there is no question about it, because he has
never said a word to me that he might not say to any girl."

"That's nonsense, Mary."

"He never has, then, as sure as the blessed Virgin watches over us;--only you don't believe
she does." 

"No, certainly not. The few that are offered us, we maintain our obscure nor artistic. I am afraid,
I choose not really the right time to ask you something I have long rumbling in the mind.
