When Helen heard that her husband was appointed to convey a reply to the war-like message of
the dark savage whom she had met on the hill, and whose aspect had filled her with terror,
she felt an involuntary dread; and gladly would she have dissuaded him from accepting the office
of ambassador--which she knew not he had so earnestly solicited--had she not been well aware
that all such attempts would be useless.  Rodolph was not a man to shrink from any service
that was required of him for the public good; and least of all from any service that involved
danger and difficulty. He, however, concealed from his anxious wife the fact that he had recognized
in the Narragansett messenger a deadly and determined foe, knowing how greatly--and perhaps
how justly--her fears would be increased, if she suspected that the Indian champion was one
of those who had planned and executed the capture of her eldest son.

But Janet had, as we have seen, remembered the swarthy savage, and the scene with which his
countenance was associated in her mind; and when she had an opportunity of speaking to her
master in private, she implored him to resign the embassy into other hands, and not thus rashly
to encounter a foe, whose public conduct had proved him to be unworthy of confidence, and whose
expression of countenance betokened both cruelty and treachery. But all her arguments were
unavailing. Maitland had undertaken the charge of the expedition at his own request; and he
would have felt himself dishonored in now declining it from any personal motives, even had
he been, in the least degree, inclined to do so.  On the contrary, his spirit was roused and
excited by the very perils he was conscious he might have to encounter; and his desire to obtain,
and convey to Helen, some intelligence of Henrich-- even if that intelligence should still
for ever the doubts end hopes, that, in spite of every past circumstance, would sometimes arise
in his own heart, and that of his own wife--was so great that nothing could have turned him
from his purpose. He, therefore, desired the faithful Janet to preserve the same silence on
the subject of Coubitant that she had already so judiciously adopted towards her mistress;
and assured her that he would neglect no precaution that might preserve him from the treacherous
intentions of the Indian, should any such be actually entertained by him.

The next morning Rodolph started at break of day, to convey the reply of the Governor to the
Narragansett Sachem, whose tribe inhabited the district now called Rhode Island, lying to the
south-west of New Plymouth. He was accompanied by two friends, and likewise by the interpreter,
Squanto. His faithful dog, Fingal, also showed such a strong desire to follow his master, that,
although it was Maitland's usual custom to leave him at home as a guard, during any of his
occasional absences, when his services in hunting were not required, he could not, in this
instance, resist his eager pleadings. Helen, also, assured him that she should feel no apprehension
at being deprived of her usual protector, as no danger was likely to menace her dwelling; and
the increase in the population of the village, from the arrival of the new settlers, had added
an inmate to the family, in the person of Claude Felton, a stout young laboring man, who had
become the useful assistant of Maitland in his agricultural occupations, and proved a good
and faithful servant.

To his protection and watchful care Rodolph Maitland committed his little family; and, taking
a cheerful farewell of his wife and Edith, he commenced his journey through the wild and almost
trackless woods. Guided by Squanto, the party reached the village of Cundineus, and were received
into the presence of the Sachem and his nephew Miantonomo, who shared with him the cares and
the dignity of his chieftainship.

With the assistance of the interpreter, Rodolph informed the Chiefs that he was the bearer
of the reply of the mighty strangers to the bold challenge that had been sent to them on the
part of Cundineus and Miantonomo; and he invited them to open the packet which he laid before
them, in order that they might fully understand the nature of that reply, and judge whether
the subjects of the powerful king of Great Britain were terrified at the audacity of the red
men. Probably Squanto made some additions of his own to the harangue of the ambassador; for
a very ludicrous change of expression appeared on the countenances of the savage Chieftains.
The looks of fierce defiance with which they had received the embassy gave way to anxious and
timid glances, which they hastily cast at the ominous snake-skin, while they involuntarily
drew back, as if they feared it would explode, and punish their rash temerity.

Rodolph saw the effect of Squanto's version of his speech, and resolved to increase it. He
understood enough of the native tongue to perceive that the interpreter had alluded to the
potent and deadly properties of the contents of the snake-skin, and he desired him to inform
the Chiefs that the musket which he carried in his hand contained a very small portion of the
same substance, and he would give them proof of its power. He then glanced for a moment into
the lofty trees that surrounded the place of audience, and perceiving a monkey that was clinging
to one of the wide-spreading branches, nod chattering angrily at the intrusive foreigners,
he took a deliberate aim, and in another instant the creature lay lifeless and motionless on
the ground. The Indians were startled at the report, and amazed at the effect of the invisible
messenger of death. They hastened to examine the dead animal but one drop of blood issuing
from its skull was the only indication that some missile had pierced its brain; and the veneration
of the Narragansetts and their Chiefs for the prowess of the white men evidently rose in a
great degree.

But there was one among them who did not share the wonder or the awe of the assembly. He stood
silent and motionless, at a little distance from the group, with his eyes intently fixed on
Rodolph's countenance, and a smile of malignant scorn and triumph on his own dark features.
His arms were folded across his scarred and painted breast, and his right hand grasped the
handle of a long knife that was stuck into his deerskin belt. The action seemed to be involuntary,
and without any present purpose; for he remained in the same position, unobserved by Rodolph,
until he and his attendants had retired to the hut appointed them by Cundineus, to rest and
refresh themselves, end await the reply of the Chief.

Rodolph then desired Squanto to make inquiries for Coubitant, and, if possible, to bring him
to the hut. But the sagacious interpreter had seen and recognized the white man’s face; and
he earnestly entreated Maitland not to give him any opportunity of executing the vengeance
which was evidently burning at his heart, and ready to break forth in some deed of fatal violence.
Rodolph's English friends also joined so warmly in these entreaties that he at length consented
that Squanto should seek the savage, and endeavor to draw from him all the information that
he could give respecting Henrich's death. He did so, and a long conversation took place that
evening, the result of which was that he assured Rodolph that his son had indeed been murdered
in the wood, as he had always supposed, and that his scalp had been torn off even before life
was extinct, whilst his body had been conveyed to the next encampment, and burned with many
heathen rites, to appease the troubled spirit of Tisquantum's son Tekoa.

The father shuddered, and turned away to hide the rising tear, as he listened to this harrowing
but false account. He, however, fully believed it; and felt that, henceforth, it would be vain
to cherish any hope concerning his son, except that blessed hope which is the privilege of
the Christian--the sure and certain hope of meeting hereafter, in the presence of the God and
Savior in whom he had taught his child to place his trust. He said no more; he did not even
question Squanto as to the cause of his having spent so long a time in conferring with Coubitant,
when all the information he had obtained amounted merely to the sad assurance that his son
had suffered a dreadful death. Had he done so, the interpreter might have found it difficult
to account for his conduct, as he had professed a strong dislike to Coubitant, and a distrust
of all his motives and actions. The fact was, that the wily savage had discovered Squanto's
love of importance, and his desire to be supposed to possess the confidence of the white men,
and by flattering his vanity, he had drawn from him all the information he could give with
respect to the strength of the settlers, and their capability of resisting an attack of the
natives. Squanto took care to exaggerate the numbers and the power of his employers; but still
it appeared to Coubitant, that if he could once more induce the neighboring tribes to combine
and invade their territory, there was every probability of their being utterly exterminated
and nothing short of this could satisfy the feeling of hatred that he entertained towards the
whole race of the strangers. By way of exalting the might of the settlers in the minds of the
native, Squanto assured Coubitant that the white men kept the plague, of which the Indians
well knew the desolating effects, imprisoned in a cellar, where they also stowed, their gunpowder,
and that they could let it loose upon their foes at their pleasure. This strange evidence was
heard also by Miantonomo, whom Coubitant called to join the conference, as he, knew that he
already hated the English; and he desired to strengthen that feeling to the utmost, for the
furtherance of his own plans.

From Coubitant, Squanto also received some intelligence, which, in the minds both of the superstitious
interpreter and his heathen informant, was of vital importance to the settlers, and calculated
to inspire them with dread. This was the awful fact that, a short time previous, several of
the neighboring tribes had met in the adjacent forest, and that the Powows of the whole district
had passed three days and nights in cursing the strangers, and uttering against them the most
horrible imprecations. The effect of this diabolical proceeding, in causing the defeat of their
foes, Coubitant did not do not; and, in spite of his veneration for the English, and his conviction
that their deities were more powerful than the Indian demons, Squanto was filled with apprehensions
on their account. He communicated the circumstance to Rodolph, and was surprised and almost
offended at the smile of indifference and contempt with which the Christian listened to him.
But he found it impossible to make him attach any importance to what seemed to him so serious
a calamity; and, by degrees, his own fears subsided and his mind was reassured by the arguments
and the cool composure of Maitland.

Rodolph and his companions lay down to rest for the night in the Indian hut, across the entrance
of which Squanto placed several strong boughs, and spread a cloak of deer-skin over them. This
was done ostensibly for the purpose of keeping out the cold night wind, but really to serve
as a screen from the prying eyes of Coubitant, whose intentions he much mistrusted, and also
as an obstacle to any attempt he might possibly make to violate the laws of honor and hospitality,
by a secret attack on the person of the ambassador.  Whether the savage actually meditated
any such act of treachery, was not known; but if he approached the hut with a murderous purpose,
he was probably deterred more by the fierce growlings of Fingal--who lay at the entrance, but
scarcely slept that night--than by the barrier of boughs and deerskin.

Several times were the party awakened by the trusty watch-dog's angry bark; and once, when
Rodolph hastened to the entrance, and drew aside the curtain, he thought he could descry more
than one retreating figure in the uncertain darkness.  The continued uneasiness of Fingal prevented
his master from again giving way to sleep until after day had dawned, when his faithful guard
became tranquil, and he likewise sought the repose which he greatly needed before recommencing
his fatiguing journey.

Ere he set out on his homeward way, Rodolph again repaired, with Squanto, to the presence of
the Chief; to demand his message to the British Governor; and he was informed by Cundincus,
that he had already dispatched a messenger to restore the dreaded packet, and to deprecate
the wrath of the pale-faced Chieftain. This was all the ambassador could desire; and, taking
a courteous leave of the Sachem, he and his attendants resumed their journey without further delay.

For a considerable distance their path lay through the forest; and the underwood was so close
and thick that the road consisted of a narrow track, scarcely wider than would admit of two
persons passing one another along it, and only calculated for travelling in 'Indian file,'
which is so much practiced by the natives. In this manner our party proceeded, Rodolph leading
the way, and his attendants following singly; while Fingal, who seemed rejoiced to have left
the village, bounded along at his master's side, ever and anon leaping up to express his joy
by licking his face and hands.

'Down, Fingal!' said his master, kindly patting his favorite's head, and stroking his thick
shaggy mane. 'Down, my good fellow; your joy is too boisterous for this narrow, thorny path.
You shall expend your superfluous strength and spirits on the plain yonder; for I think I detect
some game scudding across the green meadow before us.'

Rodolph paused to adjust his gun; and the sagacious dog ceased his wild demonstrations, end
paused also until the task was completed. Then as his master rose to proceed, he once more
sprang up to his shoulder, end his intelligent eyes asked leave to dash through the covert,
and drive out the expected game.

But why did that bound of pleasure change instantaneously into a convulsion of agony? and why
did the noble creature fall by his master's side and look so earnestly up into his face? Surely,
in the midst of his own death struggle, he sought to tell him, with that mute eloquence of
love, that danger was near. Rodolph knew that it was so; but no danger could then have compelled
him to leave his dying friend-- the friend whose life was now ebbing away as a sacrifice for
his own. Yes! the shaft that had pierced through the neck of Fingal was designed for Rodolph's
breast; and he who cast it deemed that it had found its intended mark, when, through the bushes,
he saw the white man's form bend quickly and suddenly to the ground. Then Coubitant fled exultingly,
and his savage heart beat high with joy and triumph.

But Rodolph thought not of him, or of his malice. He only saw his faithful dog expiring at
his side, and knew that he had no power to aid him. It was evident that the arrow was poisoned,
for the wound, otherwise, appeared too slight to be mortal; and the foam that gathered on Fingal's
jaws, and the convulsive struggle that shook his form, showed too plainly that his sufferings
would soon be over. The companions of Rodolph urged him to join them in instant flight; for
they felt the peril of their present situation, where the surrounding thicket gave such ample
opportunity to their lurking foes to take a deadly aim, while, at the same time, it prevented
them from either discovering or pursuing their assailants. But all their arguments, and all
their entreaties, were unavailing so long as Fingal continued to lick his master's caressing
hand, and to reply to his well-known voice, by looks of intelligent affection.

Soon, however, his head sank powerless on Rodolph's knee, and the bright glance of his eye
faded away, and life and motion ceased. Was it unmanly in his master to brush a tear from his
eye, as he rose from the ground, and turned away one moment from the lifeless form of his favorite?

‘I will not leave him here,' he said. 'The savages shall not mangle his body, as they would
gladly have mangled mine. His death has saved my life; and all that remains of him shall be
carried to a place of safety, and buried beyond the reach of those who slew him.'

'Yes,' replied Squanto readily--for he desired the removal of the dog from that spot, for other
reasons beside the gratification of Maitland's feelings--' Yes; we will carry him away, and
hide him from Coubitant’s eyes. Doubtless he will return here, as soon as all is quiet, to
see the success of his murderous attempt; and when he finds the path thus stained with blood,
he will be satisfied, and pursue us no further than to see whether we bury our dead companion
in the forest, or bear him to his home. We must, therefore, carry Fingal all the way to New
Plymouth, lest he should follow on our trail, and discover that he has only slain a dog.’

Rodolph's English companions concurred in this view, and willingly lent their aid to convey
the body of Fingal from the place of his death. A couple of poles were cut hastily, and a rude
light litter was formed; for Squanto wished that Coubitant should find traces of such preparations,
as they would help to convince him that they had thus borne away the wounded or dead form of
the ambassador.

'Now,' said he, when all was ready, 'not another moment must be lost. Even now the keen eye
of the foe may be upon us, and our stratagem may be in vain. Two of you must bear the litter,
and must carefully place your feet in the same spot, so as to form but one track; and lead
our pursuers to believe that only three men have passed along. And there, throw that bloody
handkerchief on the path, and Coubitant will take it as a trophy of success. ‘Stay,’ he exclaimed,
as Rodolph and one of his friends were about to raise the lifeless form of Fingal from the
ground 'stay one moment, and I will completely deceive that deceiver.'

He smiled as he spoke, for he felt it a pleasure and a triumph to outwit the wily Coubitant.
Then, while the body of the dog was supported, he carefully pressed his feet on the soft path,
so as to leave a distinct impression, and convince any who should examine the trail that it
was not the dog who had been wounded. This cunning device he practiced again and again until
they had passed through the wood, and entered the grassy meadow, where such precautions were
no longer needed. Then the party quickened their steps, and paused not again until they had
struck deeply into the forest that succeeded to the undulating reach of meadowland.

The way seemed long to Rodolph. He desired to reach his cherished home; and yet he dreaded
to return and sadden the heart of his little Edith with the story of Fingal's death, and the
sight of the inanimate form of her last and much-loved playfellow. Had it not been for this
catastrophe, he would have kept from his wife and child the knowledge of the cruel attempt
that had been made on his life as such knowledge could only distress them, and cause them needless
anxiety and alarm in future. But the death of Fingal must be accounted for; and, let the consequence
be what it might, it must be accounted for truly, and without prevarication.  Therefore it
was that Rodolph dreaded meeting those whose presence was the joy and the sunlight of his life.

He reached his home, and silently entered his blooming garden; and, with Squanto's assistance,
laid the body of Fingal, now cold and stiff, beneath the venerable tree that shaded Edith's
bower. Then he entered his dwelling, and found its inmates busily employed at their usual domestic
occupations, and overjoyed at his sudden and unexpected arrival. But, in spite of his own pleasure,
a shade of sadness and anxiety was on his brow, which he could not hide from the quick eye
of Helen; and she eagerly inquired the cause.

Sadly Rodolph told his story; and joy and deep gratitude for the preservation of her beloved
husband so filled and engrossed the heart of Helen, as, for a time, to overpower every feeling
of regret for the loss of the faithful animal, who seemed to have been providentially directed
to accompany his master, and save his life at the sacrifice of his own.

But Edith keenly felt the loss she had sustained.  She was thankful-- very thankful--that her
father had been restored to their home in safety; but she did not the less deplore the death
of her dear companion: and, unable to restrain her tears, she hurried from the house, and ran
to hide her grief in her lonely bower. For some time her parents did not perceive her absence,
for they were occupied with their own feelings of pious gratitude; but presently Rodolph remarked
that she had left the room, and remembered where he had deposited the body of her favorite.
He rose, and went towards the spot, accompanied by Helen; and tears of sorrowful sympathy arose
in the eyes of both, as they beheld the desolate child lying on the ground by Fingal’s side,
with her arms around his neck, and her long waving hair hanging over his inanimate face, that
had never before met her gaze without an answering look of intelligence and affection.

Gently they raised her, and spoke to her words of love and comfort; but she long refused to
be comforted. And though, at length, she became calm and resigned, and never was heard to utter
one murmur at this fresh stroke of sorrow, yet her pensive sadness became more confirmed, and
plainly showed that she mourned for Fingal, not only as her lost companion, but also as a connecting
link between her own heart and the memory of her lamented brother. Poor Edith! her early life
was one of trial and disappointment; but ‘it was good for her to be afflicted.'

CHAPTER  XIV.

'O Christian warriors! wherefore did you thus Forget the precepts of your Lord and Chief, And
lend yourselves to deeds of guilt and blood! Did ye not know--or, knowing, did not heed-- Those
solemn words of His, when death was nigh, And He bequeathed a legacy of "peace" To His disciples?
“They that take the sword Shall perish with the sword.” O, well it were If ye who left your
native land, and sought A desert for the liberty of faith, Had acted more according to that
faith, And sought to win the souls you rashly sent To meet their God and yours!'	ANON.

Yes, well, indeed, lied it been if the settlers had been able and willing to preserve, unbroken,
the friendly relations with the Indians, which, after the first natural distrust felt by the
natives towards the white strangers had subsided, they were, in several instances, able to
establish. But such was not the case. They received many provocations from the natives, even
from those who professed to be most friendly towards them, and also from the settlers who followed
them from the mother-country; and they did not always meet these provocations in the truly
Christian spirit which, it must be allowed, generally pervaded their councils, and actuated
their public and private proceedings with the wild tribes by whom they were surrounded.

Even Masasoyt--their friend and ally--was about this time nearly estranged from them, and on
the point of joining the Narragansetts in a project for their destruction. This change in his
sentiments was the result of the machinations of Coubitant, assisted by the foolish pretensions
and love of interference which rendered Squanto almost as dangerous as he was useful to his
employers. His boasting tales about the power of the English settlers to imprison and to let
loose the desolating plague at their will and pleasure, had been told to the Sagamore of the
Wampanoges, as well as to Coubitant and Miantonomo; and suspicions had arisen in the breast
of Masasoyt, which he vainly strove to infuse into his more enlightened and trustworthy son,
Mooanam. Nothing that his father could say had any effect in weakening the friendship entertained
by the young Sachem, and his brother Quadequina, towards the emigrants; and it was owing to
this steady friendship that they were made acquainted with the altered feelings of the Sagamore
in time to prevent their ripening into open hostility.

Mooanam communicated to the President the doubts and suspicions that had taken possession of
his father's mind, and advised him immediately to send the faithful and devoted Hobomak to
Packanokick, to endeavor to remove the evil impression, and restore his confidence in the Pilgrim
Fathers. He also convinced both Bradford and his council that the conspiracy which Squanto
had represented as already formed, and only waiting the concurrence of Masasoyt to be carried
into deadly effect, was as yet in its infancy, and might, by judicious management, be altogether
broken up.  The Pokanokit interpreter had greatly exaggerated, in his report to the Governor,
all that he had heard from Coubitant while at the Narragansett village; and had persuaded him,
in spite of the opinion expressed by Rodolph, to believe not only that he and his people had
been cursed by the Powows, but also that the tribes to which these satanic conjurors belonged
were uniting for the common purpose of attacking and destroying the British settlement.

All this was done by Squanto, with no serious intention of injuring his new friends, but from
a vain desire to make himself important, and show the extent of his knowledge and sagacity.
His vanity was, however, very near proving fatal to him: for when the trusty Hobomak had explained
to the Sagamore the real motives and intentions of the settlers towards the natives, and had
convinced him that all the strange and mysterious stories that Squanto delighted to tell were
either pure inventions or gross exaggerations, a second change was effected in the old Chief's
feelings, and he sent to demand that the faithless interpreter should be immediately delivered
up to him.

The Governor was extremely reluctant to comply with this demand, as he well knew how cruel
and how summary were the judgements of the native Chiefs; and he, as well as the whole of the
colony, felt a regard for Squanto, notwithstanding his folly and his errors. Nevertheless,
the Pokanokit was a subject of the Sagamore, who had made an express stipulation in his treaty
with the settlers that any of his people, who might take up their abode in the colony, should
be given up to him whenever he required it; and therefore Bradford felt himself compelled to
abandon Squanto to his fate.

The messengers who accompanied Hobomak on his return to New Plymouth were loaded with a quantity
of valuable beaver-skins, which they laid in a pile at the Governor's feet, as a bribe to induce
him to comply with Masasoyt's demand.  These the Governor rejected with indignant scorn, observing
that no man's life could be purchased from the English; and that if he resigned the interpreter
into the power of his native sovereign, it was only because truth and justice required it,
and not from any base motives either of fear or advantage.

Then the messengers approached the wretched man, who stood calmly awaiting the decision of
the Governor; and he saw one of them draw from his belt the knife that Masasoyt had commanded
him to plunge into the culprit's heart.  But Squanto did not tremble. All the native fortitude,
so characteristic of his race, was manifested in this awful moment; and the bystanders felt
a respect for the Pokanokit that he had never before inspired.

Gladly would each individual have interposed to save him; and breathlessly they watched the
movements of the President, whose signal was to fix the moment of Squanto's death. Bradford
hesitated: the word trembled on his lips, when suddenly looking towards the sea from the summit
of ‘the Burying Hill,' on which the assembly stood, he espied a shallop bounding over the waves,
and advancing directly towards the shore beneath.

He made this a pretext--certainly, not a very well grounded one—for delaying the execution
of Squanto's sentence; and declared that he would not give the fatal signal until he had ascertained
the object and the contents of the approaching vessel. This faltering on the part of the Governor
excited great wrath in the messengers of Masasoyt; and, without any farther parley, they took
up their beaver skins, and departed to their home. Squanto's forfeited life was thus providentially
spared; and the conduct of Bradford was, through Mooanam's good offices, overlooked b the Sagamore.
But that life was not greatly prolonged.   Very soon after this event he was seized with I
virulent fever, while on a short journey with the Governor, and, in spite of all the care and
attention that were bestowed on him, he died, much regretted by the whole colony.

The boat, whose seasonable approach had been the means of arresting the fatal stroke, was found
to have been sent from some English fishing vessels, many of which now constantly frequented
the shores of New England. It conveyed to the colony an addition of several able-bodied men,
who were joyfully welcomed by the settlers, as laborers were just then much wanted, both in
the fields and in the increasing town. These men were sent out by an English merchant named
Weston, who had long endeavored to encourage the colonization of New England; but from very
different motives to those which had actuated the Pilgrim Fathers, and led them to forsake
the comforts of a European home for the toils and uncertainties of an American wilderness.
A desire for profit appears to have been the ruling principle in Weston's mind. He was, therefore,
very indifferent as to the moral character of the men whom he sent out to join the emigrants,
and was only solicitous to secure a quick return of the money that he had expended: and, finding
that the prospect of gain from a connection with the New Plymouthers was doubtful and tardy,
he had resolved to found a colony himself.

For this purpose he had, some time previously, obtained a grant of a portion of land in Massachusetts,
and sent over sixty men to cultivate it, in two ships, which he placed under the command of
his brother-in- law. The arrival of this fresh band of emigrants had proved a fruitful source
of trouble and annoyance to the first settlers, for they were chiefly idle and profligate vagabonds,
who had no settled occupation at home, and no characters to sustain. Weston himself described
them in a letter to Bradford, as 'tolerably rude and profane.' And a friend of the Pilgrims
wrote from England to warn them against having any connection with the new colony: and recommended
them to have it distinctly explained to the Indians, that they were a new and independent society,
for whose conduct and good faith they could in no way be responsible.

