THE CURSE OF THE FIRES AND OF THE SHADOWS.

One summer night, when there was peace, a score of Puritan troopers under the pious Sir Frederick
Hamilton, broke through the door of the Abbey of the White Friars which stood over the Gara
Lough at Sligo. As the door fell with a crash they saw a little knot of friars, gathered about
the altar, their white habits glimmering in the steady light of the holy candles. All the monks
were kneeling except the abbot, who stood upon the altar steps with a great brazen crucifix
in his hand. 'Shoot them!' cried Sir Frederick Hamilton, but none stirred, for all were new
converts, and feared the crucifix and the holy candles. The white lights from the altar threw
the shadows of the troopers up on to roof and wall. As the troopers moved about, the shadows
began a fantastic dance among the corbels and the memorial tablets. For a little while all
was silent, and then five troopers who were the body-guard of Sir Frederick Hamilton lifted
their muskets, and shot down five of the friars. The noise and the smoke drove away the mystery
of the pale altar lights, and the other troopers took courage and began to strike. In a moment
the friars lay about the altar steps, their white habits stained with blood. 'Set fire to the
house!' cried Sir Frederick Hamilton, and at his word one went out, and came in again carrying
a heap of dry straw, and piled it against the western wall, and, having done this, fell back,
for the fear of the crucifix and of the holy candles was still in his heart. Seeing this, the
five troopers who were Sir Frederick Hamilton's body-guard darted forward, and taking each
a holy candle set the straw in a blaze. The red tongues of fire rushed up and flickered from
corbel to corbel and from tablet to tablet, and crept along the floor, setting in a blaze the
seats and benches. The dance of the shadows passed away, and the dance of the fires began.
The troopers fell back towards the door in the southern wall, and watched those yellow dancers
springing hither and thither.

For a time the altar stood safe and apart in the midst of its white light; the eyes of the
troopers turned upon it. The abbot whom they had thought dead had risen to his feet and now
stood before it with the crucifix lifted in both hands high above his head. Suddenly he cried
with a loud voice, 'Woe unto all who smite those who dwell within the Light of the Lord, for
they shall wander among the ungovernable shadows, and follow the ungovernable fires!' And having
so cried he fell on his face dead, and the brazen crucifix rolled down the steps of the altar.
The smoke had now grown very thick, so that it drove the troopers out into the open air. Before
them were burning houses. Behind them shone the painted windows of the Abbey filled with saints
and martyrs, awakened, as from a sacred trance, into an angry and animated life. The eyes of
the troopers were dazzled, and for a while could see nothing but the flaming faces of saints
and martyrs. Presently, however, they saw a man covered with dust who came running towards
them. 'Two messengers,' he cried, 'have been sent by the defeated Irish to raise against you
the whole country about Manor Hamilton, and if you do not stop them you will be overpowered
in the woods before you reach home again! They ride north-east between Ben Bulben and Cashel-na-Gael.'

Sir Frederick Hamilton called to him the five troopers who had first fired upon the monks and
said, 'Mount quickly, and ride through the woods towards the mountain, and get before these
men, and kill them.'

In a moment the troopers were gone, and before many moments they had splashed across the river
at what is now called Buckley's Ford, and plunged into the woods. They followed a beaten track
that wound along the northern bank of the river. The boughs of the birch and quicken trees
mingled above, and hid the cloudy moonlight, leaving the pathway in almost complete darkness.
They rode at a rapid trot, now chatting together, now watching some stray weasel or rabbit
scuttling away in the darkness. Gradually, as the gloom and silence of the woods oppressed
them, they drew closer together, and began to talk rapidly; they were old comrades and knew
each other's lives. One was married, and told how glad his wife would be to see him return
safe from this harebrained expedition against the White Friars, and to hear how fortune had
made amends for rashness. The oldest of the five, whose wife was dead, spoke of a flagon of
wine which awaited him upon an upper shelf; while a third, who was the youngest, had a sweetheart
watching for his return, and he rode a little way before the others, not talking at all. Suddenly
the young man stopped, and they saw that his horse was trembling. 'I saw something,' he said,
'and yet I do not know but it may have been one of the shadows. It looked like a great worm
with a silver crown upon his head.' One of the five put his hand up to his forehead as if about
to cross himself, but remembering that he had changed his religion he put it down, and said:
'I am certain it was but a shadow, for there are a great many about us, and of very strange
kinds.' Then they rode on in silence. It had been raining in the earlier part of the day, and
the drops fell from the branches, wetting their hair and their shoulders. In a little they
began to talk again. They had been in many battles against many a rebel together, and now told
each other over again the story of their wounds, and so awakened in their hearts the strongest
of all fellowships, the fellowship of the sword, and half forgot the terrible solitude of the
woods.

Suddenly the first two horses neighed, and then stood still, and would go no further. Before
them was a glint of water, and they knew by the rushing sound that it was a river. They dismounted,
and after much tugging and coaxing brought the horses to the river-side. In the midst of the
water stood a tall old woman with grey hair flowing over a grey dress. She stood up to her
knees in the water, and stooped from time to time as though washing. Presently they could see
that she was washing something that half floated. The moon cast a flickering light upon it,
and they saw that it was the dead body of a man, and, while they were looking at it, an eddy
of the river turned the face towards them, and each of the five troopers recognised at the
same moment his own face. While they stood dumb and motionless with horror, the woman began
to speak, saying slowly and loudly: 'Did you see my son? He has a crown of silver on his head,
and there are rubies in the crown.' Then the oldest of the troopers, he who had been most often
wounded, drew his sword and cried: 'I have fought for the truth of my God, and need not fear
the shadows of Satan,' and with that rushed into the water. In a moment he returned. The woman
had vanished, and though he had thrust his sword into air and water he had found nothing.

