CHAPTER XX

MARILLAC TELLS A STORY

Guests were seated that evening around the oval table in the dining-room of the castle of Bergenheim.
According to custom, the ladies were not present at this repast.  This was a custom which had
been adopted by the Baroness for the suppers which were given by her husband at the close of
his hunting parties; she dispensed with appearing at table on those days; perhaps she was too
fastidious to preside at these lengthy seances of which the ruses of the hare, the death of
the stag, and the feats of the hounds, formed the principal topics of conversation.  It is
probable that this conduct was duly appreciated by those who participated in those rather boisterous
repasts, and that they felt a certain gratitude, in spite of the regrets they manifested on
account of Madame's absence. Just if mankind
is born. I have read in a very learned book this sentence, I will never forget. "Mankind, in
its collective life, not yet born."

All this long history that we already living in the spring of maximum and descry a long future,
glorious and fruitful, must not, however, rejoice too much, or less hubris. Compared our twenty
millions of years already served, plus twenty million at least last spring still on this planet,
with other springs and peak years of other planets and solar systems larger ones, may seem more
brief this spring that the ordinary and vulgar fine year, which only
lasted three months.

I spent days pondering on the subject, and found myself in the field, in pleasant solitude in deep
valley surrounded by steep rocks, where there was quiet, cool and
a thousand plants, herbs and flowers, had awakened a dream that seemed
pure spiritual vision and intuition to something real, but for me
physically imperceptible.

Within the area of ​​one square kilometer understood that there were some subtle emanations of
certain fluid thousand times fainter than the air flow that penetrated the air around, infusing
in the gaps and interstices that allow molecules. This fluid, that man does not see, neither
weighed, and never feel with your senses, does not rise beyond a mile. We therefore a cubic kilometer
of this fluid filled thin, diluted in the air as perfumes or fragrances. Figureme, then, my world
as a cubic kilometer apart, and saw that it was populated by a lineage of sylphs so tiny that
if you accidentally swallow any one of the meanest molecule air, this molecule and perhaps you
will drown or choke as any of us a peach pit. My lineage sylphs breathe, therefore tenuous fluid
which I spoke.

With air molecules do sylphs thousand beauties, and even play when they are young, huge disparity
through blowguns.

Outside cubic kilometer is for my sylph infinite, unknown and unfathomable. Living in one hour,
but his mind is so fast and so subtle that at this time have time plenty of room for instruction,
love, spread, careers, rising to the highest positions, leave an illustrious name to its legitimate
offspring, and even tired of life and appeal suicide. One minute
for any of them is much more than a year for any us.

Their poets composed verses desperate and disillusioned at fifteen minutes after birth, and
his wise invent the deepest and most convoluted systems of philosophy at thirty minutes.

The voice of my sylph is so thin that only the fluid can be transmitted in waves above sound. His
words are so early in a second story concerns a sylph who the most concise of us take three
or four hours to count. Everything between us is extensive, it is intense among the sylph. In four
hours of any day is extended History of the Sylphs, and is so rich
in revolutions, changes, wars and progress, like ours in the 1870-odd
years that separate from the Christian Era until the time of writing.

Sylphs have my human figure. I understand that every soul, every thought that informs a body, big
or small, gives this figure as the most beautiful.

The beauty of my sylph is such that if we could make a very powerful microscope to get to see
them, men envy and we desperately fall in love with the females.

They are very advanced in civilization. They have had many prophets and founders of religions;
but passes including age of faith, and scratching the dawn of the age of reason.

His knowledge of history, without any mixture of fable, what gives severe criticism by Indeed,
nothing more than ninety days, which amounts to over three thousand generations. And like a minute
for them is to be equivalent to a year for us, we can say that they
make up the age of their civilization over 129,600 years.

Beyond that, going against current time, the Sylphs are not clear, but if among them are a
Darwin or a Haeckel undoubtedly place the appearance of the first world monera sylph at a distance
proportionately much larger.

The concept of the universe are very different from that formed us. And not because his reason
is inconsistent with ours, but because there are other data from
their senses.

Fail with the view to the sun or the moon or the stars, where the streams of burning light Throwing
on them first, and warm, silvery light that bathes the moon, come for them from a hidden spring.
So are a thousand scenarios to explain. Course there are long historical periods of light and other
long historical periods.

In his world there are living beings, of such gigantic proportions that we do not even conceive.
A wasp is cheaper for them than it would be for us the Nevado de Sorata, if pulling himself from
rennet, cheering and throwing wings, to receive a fly and show us through the air. Fortunately,
the excessive smallness of the Sylphs and agility portentous save them of these monsters.

It
is clear that the infinite is always infinite, so in the mind of a sylph and mind of a man.
At this point, if we incur a rational speculation, our concepts are equal, but to count on extended
to greater numbers, to notice much, Sylphs beat us, penetrate your senses and see and perceive
depths extension of time, volume and duration in the infinitely small,
where the median, the mean for us, the universe of a cubic kilometer
is more daunting for them the whole vastness of the heavens to us.

And do not stop putting so beyond its infinite universe unexplored.

Walk all very proud with their culture and their progress, they judge without limits. Just as
there is already a very long last, expect even longer future. And
it is certain not wrong.

They were born this past spring and will finish at the end of next fall. Now, it's summer, are
around the height of its grandeur. The same thing happens to us.

Who knows if there will be things in which we compare what we think we are my sylph? If any
of these beings come to find out that we exist, as I have come to find out that there sylphs
such, do not laugh, or pity us, seeing hope yet so long future? The millions of years we have been
living and those who hope to live Moreover, it will be for a spring. Perhaps, when you return
the Summer or bathing in some bathrooms of their world, find and made our own desolate ruins and
extinct, our ephemeral race. But it will be right. What is important is intelligence, which is not measured
by rods, not for miles, nor Earth diameters.

Its activity, when fertilized, can condense in a minute more facts, more ideas, more creations,
more glory and more hell, that other intelligence reluctant, lazy and stupid, for ever and ever.

Last
morality. Everything is relative, as I said D. Hermogenes. No less no more. In time I've taken
me to write this article to fulfill my rash promise, a man fertile ingenuity had been able to
write the history of the entire human race, and in less time, my sylph are able to do the most
important of his own history. Do not give for sure, because I've come to learn well and do not
like to fantasize, but it is possible while I've been writing all these candideces afanadísimo
and innocent, so muddle through, my sylph have founded new empires,
created constitutions, invented philosophies and machinery, and erected
monuments in their feelings, evergreen.

Such consideration I am ashamed and humiliated, rather than full of
vanity, and, although not of Sylphs, but men like me, the audience
has to read to me, he still presented with the greatest distrust of
this writing, I have not had sleep or mood, or time to do more soon.

THE CORDOVA

The editor of this work was kind enough to entrust a century been one of his articles, and I naturally
chose the Cordoba, as the province of Cordoba, where I was born and I grew up.

My extreme laziness has prevented me until now to keep my word to
write.

Perhaps to palliate this lack me I had a number of difficulties and objections, which was
half thinking of condemning the editor, to help justify my tardiness in to fruition with my
work.

What essential difference, or even accidental notable difference can be or is say, between Cordoba,
the jaenense or Seville? Back in the old maybe any, because communications were so easy, and
it was easier to live isolated and sedentary, but on the day that, not men and women in adjoining
provinces, but those remote nations apartadísimos faraway countries and kingdoms, and visitors
are often How to persist the variety and distinction of types, giving occasion for describing women
who by their customs, beliefs, ways of feeling and thinking, appearance, continent and costume,
differentiate to the point that the paintings or descriptions of them make, vary by subject,
not just by the style of painting or describe? Also, I said I, though the stamp of caste and nationality
are indelible, not who hits delete or confuse the continued existence and the inner spiritual
commerce at this time both are written, read and travel, in this age of steam and electricity,
railroad and telegraph, still not persuaded that there is also a mark of provincialism, as no
seal of nation, tribe or caste. The peculiar and castizo, as have the These unique qualities,
from divisions that made the nature, and not the administrative or political divisions, ie artificial,
as are the divisions provinces. Malaga or Seville will, no doubt, caste and more homogeneous soil
with certain Cordoba, Cordoba than those of many together. A woman of Cuevas de San Marcos,
for example, should be more like another of Rute, Rute a Belalcázar
to another, and more will resemble that of the Benamejí Casariche,
Benamejí than that of Almodóvar.

Tired as I know that between the Galician and Catalan woman, and between La Mancha and Bilbao
had to mediate radical differences, but that of each province, was the it was, he would have
a special type, I was hard to believe.

I just saved monotony of this book and encrypting the variety in the diverse talent of every
writer in the bias that manages to give the matter, and the singularity of his style, thoughts and
feelings.

I never thought that the editor wishes we wrote a scholarly review, a number of lives of all the famous
women of each province. This would perhaps be not only entertaining, but exemplary and didactic,
but it was not, nor have I committed to writing my article, if this is it. It was historical
work, or biographical, which was traced and planned, but box and painting the living habits
or accurate picture of what today is reflected in every province in land use, culture, ideas,
and other items, conditions and actions of women.

And being the thing, I repeat that I did not see me for nothing or almost nothing to stop
the monotony of the work on the subject, although the subject, or I should say by the subjects
came to be a flower garden, and the layer of the student, through the diversity of styles and
idiosyncrasies of each writer that she put an hand.

Thus, on more or less, walked me wondering, when family duties took
me to kidney in the province of Cordoba, to a happy region where the
local color is provincial released by the handful of lavish nature
and inexhaustible in their various creations.

Y being this color, this stamp, this type throughout, how, I said to myself, not to be so in
women, which is soft wax for impressions, and hard to preserve bronze without they fade?

More than five months I went in my place, and this time apparently moved completely respect the
book of Mr. Pebble. I had no excuse for not writing the article.

He was convinced that if I paint Cordoba was not a type sui generis, it was because I did not
know painting what I was seeing a clear way. I decided, therefore, since to do this painting,
ingenuously confessed that, if it does not original and new, the fault is mine and not the
model.

One thing still troubles me and makes my purpose. To see and treat the Cordoba of the day, come
my imagination the species nearly wiped from my childhood and early youth, tired far unfortunately,
slept or were buried in my mind, the first in Cordoba third of this century. The disparity between
the memory and print this confused me a little. Cordoba female type has not disappeared, but
there has been change, but change it has not been castizo to the exotic. The change has been
for development of the interior very essence of women in Cordoba, which, like all essences immortal
remains in substantial foundation, while taking on new forms and
new accidents.

The Cordoba of this historic moment is not the previous historical moment in Cordoba, but is always
of Cordoba, and always continues to make its essence as each neighbor's
daughter, externalizing the typical idea their own, and presenting
different aspect in each of the various developments with the exteriorized.

I

see that elevates me too, and I'm going to go down and speak with more frankness, leaving kidnapping
philosophy for another time.

Today I get the Cordoba in the light as it is, while memory retracts me as it was thirty or
forty years ago. Of confusion arises here, something like a antinomy, but while studying the antinomy
is resolved with little work on a synthesis supreme. This short, if you were right I to create would
be a neat article. Moreover, no this synthesis is not possible the article because I'm not
going to paint the Cordoba dead stop stationary, inert, fossil, but
the Cordoba living, moving, developing, in progress; unfolding, not
given impulse, but by the laws of their own great being and its rich
and generous body.

To purchase the whole concept of Cordoba is necessary to study in different classes and states:
from the great lady to the porter rude woman from the girl to the elderly, from the daughter's
family to the mother or grandmother, and see and visit, and in the former and splendid capital of
the Caliphate, and in the Sierra, north of the Guadalquivir, abundant mines and wild meadows
and elusive, and the bountiful countryside where there are populated places and from the beautiful
cities, where wealth, welfare and culture are higher. But if we were analyzing and examining all
of these things separately, it would end or our article, and so should
touch only capital items, and encrypt and summarize in two or three
types everything in Córdoba most characteristic and proper.

Of course, in the province of Cordoba is rich ladies who have been or are in Madrid, that may
have gone to Baden or Biarritz a summer speaking French, who have walked in the forest of
Boulogne, who know perhaps several foreign courts, who read the novels George Sand and Lamartine
in the same language they were written, and that Worth dress with Laferrière, with or with
Isolina Honorine. In all of these women remains remains the essence of women in Cordoba, but it would
be necessary to deepen and penetrate too discover that essence through so many attachments to strangers
and so many false externalities.

Seek, therefore, to Cordoba where we have no genuine need for further or eliminate to find it:
let us look at the villager, whether rich and poor, and lady and maid.

The villager is extremely hardworking. However poor, must clean the house jumping. The floors,
marble tile, brick or plaster studded seem burnished by dint of mopping.

If the mistress of the house has a well, shine in two or three glass china cabinets and dishes,
and in symmetrical rows adorn the walls of the kitchen pots, pans and Other dishes of brass or
copper, where can one see the face in a mirror.

The Cordoba is all surveillance, hygiene, care and careful economy. Never leave keys the pantry,
cupboards, chests and cabinets. On the shelf units or shelves of the pantry usually maintained
as provident and rich profusion, a treasure of foodstuffs, which account, and prosperity of the
house, and of fertile farms of the owner, if they are products Indians and, as they say, one's upbringing
and tillage, and the skill and elegance the lady, whose work has increased the value of the
first subject with some preparation or condiment. There has walnuts, chestnuts, almonds, sweet potatoes,
wrapped imperial cirolitas paper for the writing, brandied cherries, apricots and a thousand other trinkets.
Peppers spicy hot peppers and garlic and horns, hung on strings next to the cod the less neat.
In part there is usually neater sugar, coffee, sage, linden, chamomile, and even tea sometimes,
just before the pharmacy was. Hanging from the ceiling and giant egregious hams, and, alternating
with the pastoral statement of the animal kingdom, sweet andregüelas wintry, grapes, pomegranates
and other fruits. Preserved in deep glazed crocks back Mrs. marinated pork, covered with butter,
birds, ie, offal, kidney and spleen of the same quadruped, and even
rubble, artichokes, mushrooms and asparagus and amargueros, all it
so well prepared, it is enough heat in a hurry to give a hearty meal
any guest who comes unexpectedly.

The killing is done once a year in each house well-off, and in that task usually look lady its
activity and skill. He rises before dawn to scratch, and surrounded by her servants runs, she does,
the series of major operations. Seasons and mass of the black pudding, pouring on her, sprayed master
and the appropriate proportion salt, oregano, cumin, pepper and other
spices, and manufactures sausages, sausages, sausages and other sausage.

Most

of this is suspended from the humerus in long rods or bars of iron, which provides to cook a delicious
abundance of succulent character. Are almost always in winter visits around the home, where a
mountain of burning oak or olive pulp and pomace under the broad hood of the fireplace. So
if you get wet from the rain and transfixed cold, and the street, and the field, raised his eyes
to heaven to be giving thanks for as well, is much better and have to reiterate the thanks, to
discover that dense constellation of sausages and black pudding, which transcends and aroma
to the nose down, penetrates in the stomach and awakens or revives the appetite. Many times I have
satisfied myself, being talk shows at night, around one of these homes hospital! Maybe the
same lady, perhaps a servant bold and agile, with kingly generosity took down one or two sausages,
and roasted on grills on the embers. After meals with white bread with a sip of local wine, which is
the world's best wine, and delicious and festive conversation, they knew these puddings to glory.

It
is unfair to fame when he says he eats bad over there. In my province there is a sybaritic rustic
love.

Well you know my countrywoman estimate, look at your table and serve the best fruit starting with
the one raised in his heritage, a thousand times more pleasant to the palate and more flattering
for self-love that held the fence as others. Nor does either, at station timely blunders Carcabuey
cherry, pear of Priego, melon Montalvan Alcaudete peaches, figs Montilla, oranges Palma del Rio,
and even those only plums, which are given only on the slopes of Cabra Castle, plums, sweet
and Honey, you smell better than roses. As for the grapes, not to say they are better or worse anywhere,
they are excellent in all: and there lairenes, pedrojiménez, black Albillo, dombuenas kid at
heart, muscat, trivial, and a thousand other lineages or vintages.


"The story!  the story!"  exclaimed several, who were amused by the incoherent chattering of
the artist.

"Here it is," said the latter, sitting upright in his char,; and paying no heed to his friend's
warnings.  "The scene takes place in a little court in Germany--Eh!"  said he, looking at Gerfaut
and maliciously winking his eye--"do you not think that is glossed over?" They can give us thank
those poor guys for the happiness they prepare.

- Every man has a destiny to fulfill on earth.

- I know perfectly well that fate. Having the many pains that nature and our like we provide.

-
And if we suffer with patience and commend them to God, to achieve
the reward reserved the good.

D. Alvaro was a sneer, and rising from his chair with signs of impatience, reached out to priest.

-
Mr toilets, our conversation, if prolonged, could become a dispute. Always is bad manners to dispute
with people who come to visit, but in this case, where a priest,
would be a real offense.

- Tell you how much she likes, sir.

My duty is to preach the truth without fear of offense.

The gentleman looked back at him this time with a compassionate benevolence,
and approaching him and placing a hand on his shoulder, he asked,
smiling:

- Let's see, Father, if you were God, would make a world
as evil as this?

- This question is more like a mockery ...-- responded
with signs of sadness and disgust the cleric.

- What you see how
offended!

... What I mean to ask is whether, taking you on your hand build
a better world, full of happy people, happy forever, would you on
a whim the other full of pain, sadness, bitterness, would you life
to poor beings, good and bad, for the sake of rewarding good and punishing
the bad.

- God created the world evil, but good.

It was the first man who brought all pain with disobedience.

- Ah, yes! The myth of the apple. I do not believe you can, sir, excuse, a whim so ridiculous.
What drove the book that apple, especially knowing the fickle nature Eve and Adam's weakness for
her? But assuming that these two deserved punishment What have we
to do with his crime?

If a person had wronged him, will you be able to take revenge on their children and grandchildren?
I think not.

Principiaría you to forgive the offender, and if not forgive, at least be saved from causing any
harm to their children. See you, So, how I am obliged to consider you a better person than God.

A wave of blood mounted to the face of the priest. The amazement, indignation, he locked the
language.

- That's mockery unworthy of the most holy - finally articulated .--
I am surprised that having you received a Christian education has
reached the point of wickedness.

A wry smile appeared on the haggard face of the gentleman.

- Yes, I received a Christian education ... at least as understood
until Christianity now.

Look at you, excuse I've had a father who was like God. For the slightest fault, daughter of
my inexperience, my temperament, my age, I imposed a barbaric punishment, cruel. If I slept
during the rosary, lashes, if he committed three mistakes in the lesson, whipping, if I dropped
a blot on the written plan, lashes, if he ran around the house stripes, if stained clothing, spanking.
Long lashes! ... And do not even bother taking to give them to me by his hand, responsible for
the implementation to Ramiro, the servant who has led you here, which, Christian, to me until I
tip blood. But still my father was better than God at this point, because the spanking of Ramiro
lasted a while while the devils we have to give last forever, as they say you ...

The smile on his lips wandered off. He was silent for a while: he
was deeply pensive.

His eyes, fixed on the floor, widened with a look of terror. Ahead of them went into swift
and grim vision throughout their childhood. His father, a high, dry, with its large curved
and sharp nose like the beak of an eagle. He had never seen him smile. Half life was spent
in the church, where he dropped to his knees with a strong blow made him shudder (sometimes
imagined that he had the knees of iron or stone). Only you spoke to reprimand or require performance
of any task. I had more friends two or three priests, with which we abhor heard of modern
liberalism and godlessness. She saw him, poor boy, emaciated and sickly, spending two to three
hours kneeling in church without ever enjoy the pleasure of running outdoors as children of
the destitute fishermen without having a companion with whom to communicate their innocent thoughts.
One day like another. The sky is always gray. Sadly the sea roaring on the rocks. The wind flapping
violence on the glass. And the silent house, gloomy, dirty, occasionally echoing walks with
slow, rhythmic, his father. Lancia could be seen later in studying the second education, staying
at the home of a cleric of the same temperament and habits than his father. His teammates despised
him because of his weakness, his lack of ability, teachers were I looked askance by nature reserved
and sad. And back to the grim holiday and hateful palace, the austere regime, the eternal prayers.
Despite their ardent desire to pursue a career failed. His father considered unworthy of primogeniture
House Montesinos to write a motion or a road map: the lawyers were called curia, engineers to masons,
teachers maestrillos. The military liked, but his ideas Traditionalists prevented him from sending
his son to serve a liberal government. Unable to serve their king with arms of a noble life
should be up early to hear mass, add a look at your finances, talk a while with the butler, playing
triplets with the priests, then give them a walk, pray the rosary, confession often and constantly
giving example the plebeians of virtue and piety, without ever rubbing them. But despite the large
showing respect for the priests kissing and holding hands in public, Álvaro remembered a detail
that had always attracted much attention, when eating the servants served before the master and
his son that the chaplain of the house. Aristocratic pride even more vivid beat in the heart of
his father that the religious sentiment, but he knew so well in the ally them depths of his
conscience, which had come to believe that religiosity was a quality deprivation aristocrats,
and that distinguished it better than any other of the multitude negligible.

Peñascosa could be seen in making the life of idle gentleman, as a child under ten years despotic
authority of his father. Her imaginative spirit, a dreamer, could not stand that inaction. He began
to read novels that gave him sneak a lady who had tobacconist Quadrant
street.

Rose after the library, where a clergyman, brother of her grandfather, Wise went through in life,
had made great copy books, and began to devour them. Read Plato, Descartes, St. Thomas, Fenelon,
etc.

It was wise. But as the light of science in spirit, also slipped doubt. What caused such cruel
tortures!

In his life, sad, monotonous, only religion, thought God, the promise of immortality, of another
world more just and more beautiful sweeten little the bitterness of the hour. And behold, suddenly
wary of this sweet promise, doubted whether all the truths of religion, even the existence
of God. At first went suspicious, dark, fearing that his father discovered his abominable in
the eyes thoughts. Then, cruelly tortured and overwhelmed by them, anxious to find remedy your
wrong, a hand that sustained him before falling into the abyss of perdition, had the courage
a day of throwing at the feet of his father and confess. The old aristocrat was terrified and
to remedy the folly of their child (so called) found no alternative but to advise Penance, fasts,
mortifications of all kinds. For him, these doubts did not come rebellions rather than meat, which
had to fight with the humility and discipline.

Suddenly jumped the barrier of doubt and fell on the field in disbelief.

Since then, neither a moment's hesitation, more and more convinced every day that this world
was worthless, and that out of this world had to wait otherwise. Death of his father and confessed
with remorse not sorry. Treat anxiety and breathed the air of freedom. There was a time when Life seemed
less horrible, the world had for him a sweet smile. It was when the well filled pocket, he went
to Madrid. First science offered comfort and entertainment. Caught up with avidity the latest
ideas in philosophy, history, science natural alternated, discussed with the most eminent men of Spain. And
he had the satisfaction to observe that there in his solitude of rocks, meditating on the ancient
books had reached the same results as the modern philosophers. Then came love, a dream sweet
and heady, pungent and divine music that was suspended some time on misery of the land, which
reconciled him to life and woke up in their hearts the hope infinite the illusion of immortal
bliss. The fall of that world of light, happy, smiling, was Cruel indeed, one of the blackest
pages in recorded history of mankind, where there are so black! ...

- By the way - leaving said his ecstasy painful skeletal hand from the front - I've had enough
time to seriously those things that you believe.

I had a hard time pain, many sleepless nights, many tears separate from them. Let me return
you so many tears I laugh a little now.

- So - said the priest shaking badly repressed - that, forgetting
entirely beliefs you sucked, the holy religion of their parents, declaring
you an enemy of God ...

- Yes, sir, the enemy of God and men ...
That is, unfortunately I can not God so, does not exist.

If there is, judging by his work, God would be a good evil. Can not be of God, I am of the men not
to harm but to flee them as they flee from the ferocious beasts.

Since I was born I have been experiencing many pain. However, I never tried to get back at them
because I know they are evil because it has created Nature or Fate, they hurt as do the beasts,
for selfishness that rages within every living being. The world is organized to devour beings
to each other. What happens between fish passes among men, only that we do not open your mouth
and swallow us hit the victim, which, after all, is an advantage for her, but we're eating
small bites, ripping the flesh until it a skeleton ... Can not you see me for me? - Added with
a smile on his face fierce pointing .-- The I have eaten fish that get it. I have left nothing
but bones.

Fr Gil, more and more terrified, dared to ask:

- And you think that there is on earth no man righteous, no virtuous
woman?

- Yes there are, but they are exceptional products of nature,
rather, are aberrations a body set up to evil.

Good men suffer the consequences of any aberration; can not survive.

All animals are born with a defense to fight in combat life, some
have teeth, others have claws, some have horns, some have wings flee:
the good man is the only animal that has no means of defense.

Not being able to fight, is fatally destined to perish. It is the poor fly in the vast tangle
spider web shaped by the rogues that make up the vast majority of mankind. The only consolation that
the good man can have is that their tormentors are not happy. The Life is a big fraud for all,
for good and for ill. Within the universe conceals a cunning force, perverse, that drives us,
leading us towards an unknown end for us, which have nothing to do. To this end we need mysterious
and forces us to reproduce. We do not mind unhappy. The individual for her is nothing, the
species is everything. Work as the owner of a livestock kill before a good horse that no longer
works, forces him to leave an infant. Concerned only with perpetuity so you will not ever
missing instruments, deceives us with the lure of pleasure, ambition or pride. Yourself, who
does not work for any of these phones, is also an instrument of the species. To worry about
the fate of these poor orphans, seeking earnestly the means of living, you unconsciously obeys
the orders of the evil force. When not just the attraction of pleasure for the preservation
of life, appeals to the sense of compassion that has placed within us.

Fr Gil, who was listening so petrified string of blasphemies, he felt a thrill of horror upon hearing
that interpretation monstrous sense of charity. In this thrill followed by a lively irritation. It
took a great effort of will not to break into insults against blasphemy.

- It's all very well - said controlling himself and forced smile, - but you will excuse me ask
you a question.

In that dismal pessimism as you profess, the idea deplorable that you have formed the world
and men, in that brutal atheism (pardon the phrase!) which has to exhibit much pleasure, are you sure
that everything depends on cool and collected right? Do not be influenced by any individual sorrows,
events your life miserable?

Feline eyes flashed angry gentleman, he was wounded to the quick.

- Ah, the eternal ditty! - Impetuously exclaimed .-- When you can not attack a theory will scrutinize
the motives of that supports it.

What are you trying to prove with that?

Suppose that the world is a paradise, that all men except me, are happy, and my pessimism depends
on a whole of my misfortune. Will I say so in the evil that has touched me in luck? Are not I
entitled, wretched creature, to describe God (if any) perverse, may have made me as happy as
others made me unhappy? Anyone who suffers on earth can ask God like Job: When the existence
will asked for nothing? ... For the rest - said adopting a contemptuous tone, insulting - from
you have entered through that door I knew what was coming. I will not argue with you because
bore me. I am convinced that you believe religion is nothing more than a set hypothesis innocent
as those of all other religions invented by poverty and cowardly men, who can not resign himself
to dying good as other living beings, as irrefutably teaches us experience, that can not be convinced
that they are born for pain. And not think on a whim, but after having studied and pondered
the matter at length, after following step by step carefully the history of religions more important.
If I were to choose one among them would certainly be no Christianity which is one of the saddest and
most senseless. What happens to me Goethe: the cross grates on me nerves. Neither Thomas or St.
Augustine, and Fenelon, and Pascal have convinced me. Therefore, none of you convince me. You
have no respect for me that you pay his character and his works. Of their science and of all his
colleagues, bishops and archbishops me laugh out loud.

His eyes shone fiercely, looking down, but these eyes softened tremble suddenly saw the tears in her
P. Gil.

- Excuse me, sir, excuse - was quick to say, approaching him - if
I have offended.

I have a bad temper ... I get irritated easily ...

- Goodbye, sir, goodbye - said Fr Gil, shaking the hand that proffered Montesinos .-- A I'm not
offended ... It is God who ...

- So I'm happy, because it does not matter .-- ...-- replied smiling
bye.

You know you have a friend here and a house available.

V

Damn left the house in a state of indescribable confusion and sadness.

Refused go to Ms Eloisa, who was waiting impatiently. When I later saw her, manifestole failure
in short and clean words.

For a few days made efforts to remove from your thinking that unpleasant interview and even blasphemous
image. Overwhelmed, crushed by a reception so brutal, no idea who had no means of fighting that
devil full of anger and rage of impiety. But His words resounded day and night in his ears, chasing
him, hurt him as cruel lashes. Knew some arguments of the heretics, those who brought the books of
theology and that the author, with the authority of the Fathers, always victoriously refuted.
Knew the existence of the rationalists, but the news was weak and vague. I had never been expressed
in a way so cynical atheism. I did not think he was truly had convinced that God did not exist.

Dissipated,
however, after a while printing, could not help thinking that had unnerved soon. Too knew that the sheep
had not been good to deliver First, it would be a cautious man, scholar,
who was not to attract four common spaces.

So why suddenly folded? Why give up without a fight? Fr Gil pleaded with his usual sincere
modesty, he was not prepared for this fight. Under the ironic and cynical statements of primogeniture
guessed Montesinos Throughout the study area, a thoughtful and complete. To combat this system
and reasoning can be argued that the wickedness was necessary to know in advance, discuss and
weighted prior to the head, then, to appear in the mouth of the unbeliever, destroy, Dust them.
So do not be afraid to try again this coveted conversion.

But the more difficult it was, the more obstacles in the way, more alive was their desire to achieve.


Madame de Bergenheim took the letter and read its contents aloud:

     "After the unheard-of and unqualifiable events of this day, the
     resolution which I have formed will doubtless not surprise you in
     the least, Monsieur.  You will understand that I can not and will
     not remain longer in a house where the lives of my servants and
     other creatures which are dear to me may be exposed to the most
     deplorable, wilful injury.  I have seen for some time, although I
     have tried to close my eyes to the light of truth, the plots that
     were hatched daily against all who wore the Corandeuil livery.  I
     supposed that I should not be obliged to put an end to this highly
     unpleasant matter myself, but that you would undertake this charge.
     It seems, however, that respect and regard for women do not form
     part of a gentleman's duties nowadays.  I shall therefore be obliged
     to make up myself for the absence of such attentions, and watch over
     the safety of the persons and other creatures that belong to me.  I
     shall leave for Paris tomorrow.  I hope that Constance's condition
     will permit her to endure the journey, but Baptiste's wound is too
     serious for me to dare to expose him.  I am compelled, although with
     deep regret, to leave him here until he is able to travel, trusting
     him to the kind mercies of my niece.

     "Receive, Monsieur, with my adieux, my thanks for your courteous
     hospitality.

     "YOLANDE DE CORANDEUIL."

"Your aunt abuses the privileges of being foolish," said the Baron, when his wife had finished
reading the letter; "she deserts the battlefield and leaves behind her wounded."

"But I saw her, not two hours ago, and, although she was very angry, she did not say one word
of this departure."

"Jean handed me this letter but a moment ago, clad in full livery, and with the importance
of an ambassador who demands his passports.  You must go and talk with her, dear, and use all
your eloquence to make her change her mind."

"I will go at once," said Clemence, rising.

"You know that your aunt is rather obstinate when she takes a notion into her head. Nor hears and
birds are singing far away, as if in the Puerta del Sol .. And then panic the rush so fast that
stands up and says: "I'll call? Ask for help? It's horrible ... And die! ... Alas, and sin !...».
Hiding his face in his hands makes determination not to call. What, what is it a comedy? Then
feels fade ... ideas you are going, you will be thinking all, you will be the heartbeat of the
blood, whole life, pain and knowledge, feel and fear, fainting, falls asleep dies ... "Virgen del
Carmen - think the last thought that escapes - take me ...!».

XXXV

No one knows why fixed point came through in the spirit of that
good knight the suspicions, and after something that confirmed suspicions,
news, data and references.

It is believed Torres was the call he took the story from the desktop Costanilla Mompous, and
that will transport Mompous Catalan accent then the Knight's own ears, justifying with adequate
reasons to the case ... It was moved from friendship to put on guard. Perhaps was slander, but
as the kind he ran, it was appropriate to notify the most interested in this for the honor of his name
etc ... The impression that these revelations were made in the confident lover can make you know
how these pages, or because you really have treaty. That man looks so quiet easily passed a
gloomy dejection a childish rage. Rosalia was afraid when he saw him enter that evening three hours
after Amparo having gone to his house, past the scene of fainting. It was Monday afternoon.

Briefly
Augustine told his cousin what he had said, and putting a color incredible, clenching his teeth
and hands, said: "If you lie, the dog I invented it has to pay. "

"Come, come, calm down, for God's sake ...-- said Rosalie -. If you get like ... if you obfuscate,
may see things blacker than they are. In these severe cases everyone should behave as she
is, and you are a decent and thoughtful gentleman.

"

- By your way of speaking - without relent Augustine said - I come
to understand that you also you know ... and this is the time when
neither you nor Bringas You told me a word, at least to put me on
notice.

- About Us - replied the lady with haughty dignity - not
we always talk about what we are not interested, or give advice to
whom we do not ask.

What we wanted to take risks desconceptuar to a person in our family, we gave you when such
a death blow and when we had no security of fact, nor could we give evidence? ... Understand,
son, this is serious ... And say one thing: when you set it to be
your wife "We inquired of us on this delicate point, as seemed natural?

Not so. Beyond you fix it alone, and when we realize it and had it very well cooked and eaten.

In
saying this and what followed, anyone, who carefully observed Rosalia, could have caught in it, along
with the desire to convince his cousin, no less alive to demonstrate their beauty, enhanced on
this occasion for the care of clothing and dressings and ornaments of great opportunity. How
he taught his white teeth, outlining how your neck, how stood to give his slender body swathed
momentary well, were details that you and I reader friend would have noticed, but not Caballero,
the situation of his mind.

"And do not think - said Rosalie with a sad countenance -, we have come to the soul not consulted
us a matter that could compromise your honor ... You have not had in mind what you want, what we
care about you. "

- I see it - Augustine said with sudden start, and regardless of the
tenderness of premium -.

The first thing is to hear what she says.

- I think you're wasting your time if you go home, - said Rosalie
going diligently to contain natural one - boot.

Not find it. I know you will not find ...

Knight looked at her as parallel.

"I have reason to know, and I say no more - he added with studied
coolness of Bringas -.

Go home and do not move from there, that it Amparo going to see you and ask your forgiveness
... So at least it has promised. This morning the poor thing's been here, and I swear that worse
I have not spent time in my life. Compassion was to see and hear. God, what tears, what sighs!
I passed out on the fourth of the work and had to bring her here. It was a Magdalene, an unhappy sorry
... What hurts him most, son, is Having A deceived. You should not treat it bad, you must not
ensañarte with it because their pain is great ... believes that going to kill ... I told you're
not a Otelo and you do not give as strong. He has promised to go home and give you rewarding loyal.
Knows that the poor can no longer be your wife, but the contempt yours the crazy ... It is
an unfortunate, that in the midst of yet retains some modesty ...».

Augustine took two turns on itself, a sign of horrible despair, as is the intoxication. He left
without another word and went into his house. Arnaiz and were Mompous that night to play pool,
and during the game affected the Indian peace of mind. So it was more talkative than usual.

The
next day, Tuesday, a day of rain and gloom, Augustine spent the morning
walking around in his office.

Expected a visit of interest no doubt, but he received was to Rosalia very nice weekend, well
renovated, very fresh and fantastic as well as when he went to theater.

"You're not good - he said with affectionate candor -. I understand, because these things are impressive,
I think you serenarte and try to give everything to oblivion ... A man like you ...! Yes, you will
find women in their thousands ... and a thousand times more beautiful, a thousand times more interesting
... So what? Have you been? I presume not, because I sent word to his house and is not there
and nobody knows his whereabouts. Te I swear that's a shame because ... Poor thing! If after
all not bad background. Among these unfortunate, there are excellent natural and even hints of
dignity. What is waiting appearances no one will win this.

"

As he did not answer anything, he seemed more attentive to the flowers of the carpet to said her
cousin, this was to give another address to his affection.

"I repeat that you are not good. You verdigris color ... To see the pulse? Burning ... Rest son, rest
is good for you. Not receive one, do not talk, do not write.

Lie on the couch and wrap the rug. I'll take care, for your health as well I can leave all
my obligations. I do drink, I'll be here all day, and if you get really bad, I'll stay all night
also. "

Augustine rejected the idea of ​​illness.

Between one and another pause, slid Rosalia tips warnings and full
of sweetness and friendship ... "Do not take it so hard ... If you
had consulted time with me ... It is best to go to bed ... 're cold.

"

Later, much later, Augustine, playing without reservation as spontaneous and natural in his soul
existed, let's say these solemn words:

"That woman has me stuck in the heart, and I can not get started."

Upon hearing this, Rosalie took his abode in cashmere and body. It was hot. To comfort his
cousin threw strings of sentences, full of loving and thoughtful
expressions.

Amid of them came up Doña Marcelina Polo, the only person who could
provide damning news the fact, as having written testimony.

"Where do you live that lady?" - Told Knight with momentum -.

Right now I go there.

- It's too late. By God, do not get well.

You look like a character in a novel.

That lady and living with her to bed when the chickens. Tomorrow you can go but not early, because
since the dawn of the three to leave the church. It is best if you send a message to Philip
to set your time.

Entered D. Francisco, who came from their walk.

"What ?...».

- I tell him to get into bed and not want to listen to me.

- Bet
that's it slander? - Thiers said kindly.

Augustine begged them to stay for lunch, which they gladly accepted. Centeno was Costanilla
to tell Prudence (aka Calamity) to give food to the children, because parents would not return
home until late.

XXXVI

Wednesday! ... A worthy successor to the previous day, was all damp
and gloom, the sky crying, the land turned into dirty lake and thick.

You'd think that a large mass of gray chocolate had spilled on the streets. The umbrella flocks
were moving along the sidewalks, cediéndose step with difficulty and covering poor people.
Spouts jets playing drum beats on them, and it lunged at each other, they pecked, scratched. Hats could
be seen like springs, and faces like those of newts and nymphs Marble played the wettest of roles in public
sources.

Augustine looked at this behind the glass of the balcony of his room, and the sound of that
sadness time itself was sung without music this elegy:

"Why did not you stay in Brownsville, gross? Who bade thee meddle in civilization? And you see ...
to the first change since you've been cheated.

You all play as a boy or a savage. When distrust, you're wrong. When you think you are wrong
too. This world is not for you. Your world is the Rio Grande del Norte and the Sierra Madre;
your company the Indian mobs of adventurers brave and ferocious socialize your revolver, your
ideal the money. Who do you get into these wanderings?

Some of fas nefas and others all laugh at you and bamboozle you and exploit you. "

- Lord - Felipe said entering the room -. Doña Marcelina is in the church. Another lady who
lives with her, and whom I know, I am told that you can go to twelve.

D. Francisco soon appeared with a smiling face and wet Carriker. His wife was busy with dance
clothing, and could not come until after noon.

Spoke after so much disturbed the Indian, and Thiers brought out
as a mitigating and conciliatory he suggested his goodness.

It was all slander, and Augustine had better not metiese more inquiries.

Much was saddened that his cousin told him: "One of two things: either I go back to Brownsville,
or me montera put the world. "

They lunched together, and before lunch concluded, Bringas rose from the table impatient eagerness.
He had an idea, and hastened to perform it, confident in the safety
of success.

He left hurriedly to go where we know.

While Rosalie was not claimed that Amparito at home, he might be
back now.

Maybe the neighbors knew the whereabouts of the two sisters. Forward, noble heart, and fear
not.

Knight came later, and by the nuns, the Postigo, Hita Street, the
alley Dog, etc ... went to the streets of the Star.

It is easy to assume that was a humorous thousand demons and did not know to choose between
doubt and certainty of his misfortune.

That such Doña Marcelina, what breed of bird would be?

This is thought to climb the ladder of the house that, older than speak evil. Called, and a maid
told the lady had not come yet, but that does not take even five minutes. We went to the room, and when
a lady was waiting there presentósele very singular appearance, white, fine, clean and airy,
an elderly woman who looked like a kitten with two emeralds for eyes, and walked with feet of
wool without the steps you feel.

"Sir - you said that looking at him sweetly human relic - are you
by chance del Toboso?

".

- No, ma'am - he said - and I am not of Toboso of La Mancha.

- Ah, excuse me ...

And slipped away, looking askance at the light
spots of mud that the visitor had left on the mat.

Augustine noticed the room, which contained about seven comfortably and other furniture anticuadísimos,
but very well preserved, four crucifixes, two children and work of
Jesus four dozen films saints, with branches of evergreens, bows and
ribbons.

There soon came a semblance of mahogany carving behind a black veil.

"Are you Mr. Knight?".

- At your service ... I wanted ...

Doña Marcelina Augustine was passed immediately to a cabinet. After seeing the room seemed
that there was no more comfortable in the world. However, in that cabinet had three. A brazier
was very hot fire to the abandoned piece. The visitor and sat on Pole armchairs.

"Did you see what day?" - Said the lady, lifting her veil and publishing the bas-relief of
your face, Christian had not understood it.

- Yes, ma'am, very bad day ... Then I come to beg you to kindly give me news ...

- I know, I know - replied sternly Polo -. Can I ask you reports, background that unhappy? If
you will permit me, I will keep the greatest secrecy, it is not in
my early carry this story and deal with actions of others.

I, though I be wrong to say it, no I usually hurt even my worst enemies ... It is no praise, but
many who I have hated me full of benefits ...

- In the present case - Caballero said eagerly - you can make an exception for me, telling me
...

- High there - the austere lady interrupted.

I do not count anything, I know nothing, I have not seen nothing, absolutely nothing. What
someone comes and tells me that Amparo is a saint?

I quiet. What you come and tell me that he wants to marry her? I
quiet.

Shut up and shut up is my subject.

Today I got to God, and if he had enough strength to keep to my guns, this just give to me.

- But sir, for the love of God - Augustine said, to the fullest confession -. The truth is before
everything.

- Just some truths are not for those ... Do not ask me anything ...
my mouth is a snap ... Only I tell you, and this not because you might
be interested, but my own satisfaction, that my brother was saved,
my brother is already on its way to Marseille where released within
three days for the Philippines, my brother has a bad back, and there
in those wild lands of my brother will come to herself.

Do you know where is the island of Zamboanga?

Because I have told you, it also comes Carib land. For there, in that blissful Zamboanga my brother
landed within two months, and there will the opportunity to christen heretics and make great
achievements.

This is not to say that I absolutely trust in your salvation, since the goat as its spots, the vicious
strip ever ... to the shooting. Oh, what efforts we had to make last minute! Had you seen ...! What
hombrazo! At the station told us that there will be a cassock Nebuchadnezzar. That is what you
want as long as not return to their old ways, or appear more here ... And do not think you ...
I have a scare ...! It I figure that of Barcelona or Marseilles we returned to Madrid and I
go through the door at least we wait ... You do not know him well.

And you're supposed to lie the natural evil; as if they had not haunted, if they had not sucked
the brains, another rooster will sing.

In a state of annoyance and irritation indescribable, Knight had to restrain not make a blunder.
The truth, he felt like giving him a couple of slaps.

"Ah, - said the timber - do you know that she is not dead Celedonia poor? We took the hospital
the day after the scandal ... And even tell you another thing, I did not see nothing, I know
nothing. "

- Madam, I do not know who Caledonia, nor do I care. Come to mine. I know, I know you has two
letters ...

His irritation led him to dispense with all courtesy and sensitivity. Raised the question in rude
terms, saying:

"I need you to give me these two letters. I buy them, you hear it well, buy them. You say. "

- Oh, I do not remember that - Marcelina said, addressing one of the
comfortable.

- Shopping - Agustín repeated, tasting the bitterness
of his curiosity satisfied.

The Polo stirred a time when the top drawer. Her back was to Knight, a fairly distance. Augustine
felt rustling of papers. After a pause, the voice of Marcelina and said:

"For you must know that there's nothing here, nothing of what you want ... Touch you to another
door, here does not commit the reputation of any person, good or bad. If any rengloncillo appears
in these caches, I will follow the advice of Father Nones, who told me: 'O deliver its owner or
the flames, 'and I ...».

He turned in front of Knight with his hands behind his back.

"Nothing, sir, nothing. I keep to my guns.

I do not harm anyone or my major enemies. Before I die to stop sending me accomplish what D.
Juan Manuel, and as I have not to see the interest, and I have no
desire to do so, you attend ...».

With quick movement uncovered the brazier and threw it in his hand what he had. Knight ran to
save from the fire that threw that devilish female, but came too late. Embers were alive,
and the curious saw nothing but a paper twisted and curled thin lifting call ... Nothing but a
name he read was the signing and said: Torment. With the final or linking a garabatito ... Yes,
it was his garabatito, his person autographed in that trait looked like a curly hair.

Angry and unable to save the forms imposed upon him a good education, because he was man belonging
to nature more than the Company, which stood as something borrowed, faced the wooden effigy,
and said in the most brutal.

"I was annoyed you ... Left you with God or the Devil, who is now
in the body, and I rejoice that soon burst ...».

Escaped left, furious ... Took the direction of his house, but had
not gone twenty yards when had an inspiration, a true celestial lightning
entered his mind.

The street of Beatas was very close ... Secret instinct told him
that there could be burning disease of your questions better remedy
than elsewhere.

"Who knows - he thought his spirit gorge from confusion to another - when all I cheat and
have fun with me, she can be it tells me the truth ... Wow, that
if we leave now that he is innocent ... But where is he?, Why is he
hiding?

... I will hide it so you will not see ... Damn my blindness, my
inexperience in the world!

... Rosalia deceiving me, deceiving me and all my friends play with
this poor man, who understands riddles ... Who can tell me the truth?

... What voice hear the ringing in my soul?, "which says: kill it, or that says forgive her? Gross,
unlucky wild, you should not be out of your forests, Jurate says
yes you the truth, forgive ... Yes, the spare ... I feel like to forgive
her, Mrs. Company ... If he is guilty and is sorry, forgive her, Mrs.
Company as hell, and I pass to you by the nose.

"

"Miss Amparo - told the concierge - has gone half an hour ago with
a gentleman ...».

- With a gentleman?

- Yes, glasses ... tiny, with
a color of dried figs Carriker.

- Ah, my cousin ... Abur ...

It
seems that the devil did.

I had never walked the streets in such a hurry, and never had so
many embarrassments.

The umbrella is latching every moment with people coming in the opposite direction. You believe
that they wanted to bite and throw each other the The flooded water. Then, he kept finding
people known to each moment I stopped to ask about his health and say, "Have you seen how long?".
Reached think that had gathered on his way to mortify. And for this, Lord, had it was a commitment
that limited the number of your friends!

'D. Augustine, weather!

Tomorrow is new moon and may change "- said in the alley Dog a dependent
of Trujillo.

- Abur, Abur ...

Finally got home ... By opening the
door, said to Philip:

"Miss Amparo awaits you ...».

And he, hearing this, shook with shock and grief, curiosity and fear
of satisfying ... What would she face?, What would you say?

"And my cousin Bringas, is too?".

- No, sir, the lady came alone.

Knight went through the rooms. The first was not in the second either. What surprised him most
was hearing the tune of the birds.

But at the moment to put his foot in the second cabinet, the music suddenly stopped. Had run
the string. Silence suspended following the gig was so respectful and mournful, that Augustine
was afraid ... Well there was not. He saw a glass on the table, a bottle. Then our illustrious
friend up with some trepidation the curtain of the bedroom and saw
a foot ... Frightened stopped looking better, because the balcony
of the bedroom was closed and there was very little light ... He saw
a black skirt ... hanging arm, hand touching the ground ... a pink
ear ... a scarf covering face ... He approached the horrible suspicion
that there were no signs of life that body; so still was ... Looked
closely ... Touched, called ... Yes, living ... breathing work as
if suffering from a strong grief.

The eyes were closed, dry ...

Leaving the cabinet again, Knight
saw the recipe ... He read briefly ran out ... Felipe came to meet
in the classroom ...

"To call a doctor - said the master -.

Say, Miss came alone?, Did you take ...?». dresses

- A medicine, yes sir. He sent me to bring it to the pharmacy.
- You! ... Doomed! - Augustine said attacking the servant with such
fury, that thought reached the end of his days.

- Mr Philip ...--
stammered crying - I did the medicine ...

- What? ... dog ... murderer.

-
Do not worry ... The pharmacist told me it was poison, and then I
... Oh, do not hit me! ... I came home, took an empty bottle, filled
it with tap water ... and burst water ...

- What banished, executioner?

-
It took a little tincture of guaiac ... brought the Doña Marta when
I ached molars.

- Call Dona Marta ... Not notify the doctor yet.

Knight
returned to the cabinet. On the table was also a letter. Breaking
the envelope, read these crooked letters written in pencil: All true.
I do not deserve forgiveness, but pity. Then I had the name of Amparo,
and after the o, garabatito ... Infamous garabatito! ... She ran to
her, because he felt moan ... The wild-eyed suicide Miron and began
saying a word, very inconsistent and without any sense.

"This is
madness ... attack to the head "- said Dona Marta, who had come hurrying
...

- To call a doctor, no, no, not to call. Wait, wait ...

He returned
to the cabinet. Or the man was insane or lacked very little.

- Dona
Marta.

- Lord ...

- What do we do?

- This is serious. He says it
is nonsense and an ember in the head ...

- Take her home ... take
her home immediately, at his house - pulling Knight said of the confusion
a clear purpose -. Take charge you, Dona Marta, that goes well, and
leave you with it. You, Philip, you bring a car, but a decent car,
a good car ... No, better will you bring the first to find ... Dona
Marta, take care you take, and take care that nothing is missing ...
Then, Felipe, alert the doctor, a good doctor, are you?, And say going
there, home ... Arropármela, say, bun ... That is not cool ... Soon;
the accoutrement ... That will not be anything.

Under these orders,
looked even from the cabinet, though pitiful beautiful picture: the
foot discovered, the hanging arm, the pale oval face, the mouth half
open ... Oh, sweet clothes ...! With broken heart my man locked himself
in his office ... If you do not cry was because I could, which did
not lack desire.

XXXVII

Four days later, according to insurance
data, supplied by the diligent observation of Rye, was D. Agustin
Caballero in the self and a convalescent state of severe disease.
Its wrong color and allowances announced insomnia, bad temper and
mood disorder, a manifestation perhaps liver, complicated with melancholy
or depressive feelings.

"Come, Monsieur," said the latter, in a low voice, as he took a step backward. I will not do anything for you. When did your second husband promised me be
a model of economy and prudence, and I was so dumb, I lost time and to some money for launching
your fortune, which was water everywhere as an old boat .... Let me finish, Manuela; not interrupt
me. Do you want me to believe that still preserves all free of traps, as I gave it to you?
Quia, my daughter! In this century there are no miracles, and fifteen thousand dollars of capital
does not hold a carriage or the pageantry that you spend. The know everything, and if not,
listen.

And Don Juan, with a wealth of detail, as well versed in business, was describing her sister state
of his fortune. I had a piece of land free from the burden of a mortgage; income only if they
gave for revenues, and the very house in which she lived was a farm
that produced little, because of his vanity.

- When you got to be
a widow in my hands, lived in one of two rooms had rented the second
floor and head east.

A hard day is a great thing, and more on your situation. But you could not get used to be lady
of many steps, as you say in your jargon; wanted your room and your coach, as in the days of
crazy waste, and the pretext that the girls were growing and needed cock and lie, go down
to the floor and fell income also increased costs. Because you could not have a trunk, pull
carts and sedan, and in another time, sold a field to buy the galerita and the horse and keep
that bigardón, son of Aunt Quica, which robs you of barley and carob .... I know it bothers you
hear this, but I tell you to know that I suck my thumb or easily fooled me .... I have never
cast the illusion of becoming. You will always be the same Manuela, mad, the pretentious, and
die when you spend the last penny. Everyone is born with his character, and you are of those poor old
father singing the song:

/ * Arròs and trap, coat to fashion, It wraps around the ball the
valensiana!

*
       /
     
     And as if the tune's
     uncle was the signal
to start the music for girls they deafened the room with the click
of the piano and warbling strained.

Don Juan took courage with this crash. Seeing that the boys only attending the piano, went
on, but it raised more voice, with great alarm of his sister.

- Marching to your doom, Manuela.

When you're in misery, always remember that I am your brother, and
you have to eat you and yours .... But money, a penny!

Doña Manuela raised his head proudly, showing the burning eyes and ruddy cheeks.

- Thanks for the charity - said wryly -. But I have not got there.

- Reaching, reaching - "don Juan without losing the haze -.

You're on the road. Even today can endure, and you refuse to see that the eight thousand pieces,
you will seek to Dona Clara, the witch lender or other person in the class, and will sign
a promissory note for twelve or fourteen thousand.

You stuck in the mud and will never leave him much effort you do
you will sink.

If not I knew you both, I'd hand, but not "one and no more, St. Thomas', I remember a lot care with which
you followed my advice.

The lady was incensed by the rough language of his brother. It was very owner of not giving that
misery, at last, was what she had always believed: a heartless miser. But his demand not authorized
to bore you with so much preaching.

- Shut up, John, I get nervous with your rudeness.

- Silent, daughter does not want to bother you on a day like this.

But I can only get a warning. Those who are so drowned like you cling to straws. Juanito has a
farm worth anything: the garden of Alcira, you had to respect as All rights reserved. As now the boy
is older and you want both, I warn you that if to make money you
mix in your deals will have to Vertel me.

I am your guardian, on behalf of his poor father, and my mission
is finished but legally, I believe in the duty to defend because which
is a good-natured fool anyone .... And do not tell you more.

The two brothers were silent. He sank into his chair, watching the kids, and she was left with
eyes on the ground, frowning and purplish-red cheeks, as if erysipelas produjese anger him.

Rafael
had left the room, playing with Miss Juanito increasingly restless,
barking, and Robert, leaning on the piano, talking to Concha, who
smiled nervously typing, making scales seemed to prance and initiating
familiar topics that blended beautifully.

- Where the hell are the
others? - Thought the man, his eyes wandering around the room.

And the other, or Andresito Amparo and were on a balcony overlooking the street with his nose
pressed against the glass and protected by curtains.

The baby, with its naive Loquillo, had a devilish ability to always get his way. Had maneuvered
deftly to be the son of blocks to the balcony, where the child was at home, away from prying eyes
and curious ears.

First, had spoken of the time, laughing at the capricious arabesques traced the raindrops trickling
through the glass, but the young, pale and trembling, as if torment some hidden thought, guided
the conversation insensibly, and Amparito is drag left, sure that either way would always where
she wanted.

The guy looked closely at the curtain of the balcony and legs Andresito, which was all visible
partner.

At a time that Shell stopped typing, Amparo's voice, which sounded distant, as buffered by the
curtains.

- But Andresito ... If we are so young!

Young! And what of that? For love there is no age, nor were no classes.

I assured him that he was quite competent in this matter, being a poet and not unheard of for
his triumphs were achieved in the Catholic Youth. In addition, he was no child inside four years
would be a lawyer, and then who knows ...? His imagination saw confusedly the distance that something
that caress every apprentice lawyers. An armchair judge an easy chair or stool Minister clerk
... anything, it was important sit down somewhere.

No, they were young to love. I had told him in a sonnet and a half dozen stanzas written with
the thought put into Amparito. Love has no age.

He loved to immense passion of the great poets, and spoke of Dante and Beatrice, Petrarch and
Laura Ausias March and Teresa. Amparito listened smiling, pleased
with this litany of poets.

All very gentlemen, but that lie for the first time I heard, with
the exception of Ausias March, because his name from the street where
she had her dressmaker.

To him it was impossible to live if Amparito refused to love, need, not abhor life, she decided
to become his muse, his inspiration. And the cute baby, but the habit still laughing, he felt
very happy to be inside someone's muse, honor ever Concha reach his sister. Be considering her
sister was more than what pushed further to say yes.

In addition, a no-show boyfriend every moment, and although there the disadvantage that she
was the daughter of a famous doctor - as claimed by the mother - and the Andresito parents were
just ordinary - also according to Dona Manuela - was confident that with the time, the brilliant
position to win the boy intended to pave everything.

And when he spoke hotter Andresito its torments of love, the girl interrupted telling your twang
joker, as he agrees to take part in a game:

- Well, we'll be lovers ... but by God! Mom knows nothing.

IV

The Carnival of that year was very happy for the family of Dona Manuela.

The girls had fun. Rafaelito was a partner in all circles distinguished and decent where dancing,
while upstairs in a room with light green, guarded and monitored
as den of conspirators, the roulette wheel with its bright colorful
or fans are grouped around the four letters of the mountain.

What nights those emotions, joys nerve, voluptuous dizziness, and then crushing, brutal tired ...!
Johnny was responsible for opening the door when The family returned the ball. At dawn, about
four, I heard screeching heavy gates, entered the carriage in the courtyard, with a crash, and
he jumped off the bed getting pants. The entrance of the family was dazzled, feeling unhappy impression
vanity. The sisters, sometimes dressed in costumes of society, the work of a dressmaker French,
and were still payable; gracefully disguised other Labrador to pierrots or Calabrese, Rafael,
tag, embedded in a clear coat, so short skirts seemed like an American,
and the mother satisfied with the success of their children, despite
Fatigue, smiling and majestic with her silk dress, which creaked at
every step, and above the large velvet coat, Johnny watched with a
father's love this show that was passed out in search of the bed,
throwing chairs to step in the exterior trim.

The mom was always for him an idol, a superior being, and the brothers, seeing them as smart, did
you remember the time when he, small but smart by diverting maternal served them careful babysitting,
taking them in her arms and struggling with their children's sublime abnegation whims.

Inadequate clothing rose up, coughing and trembling, to open the door, it was necessary to
leave, the maids sleep, so tired the next day not hindered in their work. In addition, the
sight of his family seemed to bring some of the highlights of the
festival, the perfume women, the echoes of the orchestra, the faint
of infatuation voluptuous pairs the classroom environment, heated
by a thousand lights, and the passion of the dialogues.

And then vacuuming the great perfume from an unknown world that seemed to bring his family from the
folds of their clothes, the poor boy back to bed to sleep three hours and then take the path
of the store, while mom and brothers snored his first sleep with fatigue own dance night.

Then, at the lunch were the comments the pleasant memories, tantrums
for alleged offenses in the first moment had passed unnoticed, and
that widening now in the imagination, calling for revenge.

Both girls remembered the slight smile of Lopez to examine their Calabrian costumes. Laugh at
them! The very cheesy!

Best in would be a turn around themselves, it is not always going to chic dancing with the same
white domino, so to get the mask on, all poultry shouted: "You are
there those of Lopez!"

Apart from these collective disappointment, the two girls the also suffered particularly. Conchita
Roberto was furious at the Field, "the nice chicken," as some call
it.

Many verbiage, compliments bulk, but serious and formal declaration ... Or this! Dancing with it,
and maybe abandoned his partner and left the room, not to reappear until time of final galop. His
excuse was always the same: I had something to settle with Rafaelito.

- Where you meteis, damned? - Asked his sister the following day -. What fun is that makes you
so rude?

- Women are things of men. While you bailáis, we are dedicated to jobs more serious.

Serious, yes, how serious they were, they had fried Rafaelito the mother - as self-expression -
five dollars a day asking her after the dance. The Carnival was bad luck for him, and the murmur
of the orchestra that sounded down, always dancing around the letter went contrary and took the mound
of the PTA mom's banker.

Amparo also had its disappointments. What happened she could not happen to anyone. What was not
having a boyfriend or have anything. Let's see: what a girl has a boyfriend? To wear it, for you
to see the friends and rage a little ... Is not it? As such it could not be pleasure. Andresito
had no room and it was not a member of the circles where it was. Her parents I had quite elegantito,
yes, but give limitábanse three pesetas Sunday and entrusting a sermon that was not wasteful
or skull, which looked into how he spent his money ... and very carefully
with getting into bad places.

Begging any invitation in newspaper offices, and if succeeded, went to the dance, but only until
one o'clock. Has you see? Until one, the time they arrived the friends and dance began to cheer.
Only once got Andresito wait until two o'clock, but the next day suspected Based in Las Tres Rosas
had been waiting, behind the door, some rough whiskers and a measuring stick to give the "good evening"
in the ribs behind the dancer .... Was this a serious boyfriend? And then, if you stay alone
in the dance, very careful to accept his kind invitation of so many
chickens, because if the Lord knows who has danced put a muzzle unbearable
and Othello speaks of one, and shoot a sonnet in which he puts a of
perfidious, perjured and faithless, no where to pick it up .... No,
sir, the thing can not continue well.

She was to blame for not heeding mom, saying that the Three Roses were just ordinary. Andresito
was a good kid, but she could not be a fool and her friends ask him ironically by her boyfriend.
As another who was to decide the view was done: planting a Andresito.

They arrived three days of Carnival. In the morning, between the student music and bands that
ran the streets, flaunting families spent some unhappy child wrapped in the mesh Lohengrin,
the doublet of Quevedo or the red breeches of Mephistopheles. The blind and blind the rest of the year
touting the piece of paper on which you are all that were sung by a gang, guitar to the chest,
or belly dancers dressed as fishermen, poorly arranged, with dirty clothes of ropería.

Sheets of colored boys hawked with tenths and quatrains, happy and fun to masks, collections
of nonsense and rubbish rhymed metric that afternoon had to provoke howls of outrage in the Alameda
happy. At the door vendíanse Market cardboard noses, whiskers Mane, leagues multicolored bells
sound and painted masks, able to obscure the imagination of the sculptors of the Middle Ages,
some with muscles incurred by the pain, eye vermilion jumped and
streams running down his cheek, others with a huge front, frightful
faces of skeletons with sunken nostrils and disgusting; figs noses
are crushed, or extend as winding tube with a bell at the tip causing
contagious smiles and laughter to those ruddy cheeks grabs a nasty
green lizard.

Students, with the raw cloak, tricorn hat in hand and waving his sleeve loop School, ran the
streets like a mad herd, harassing passers-by to extract money on behalf of charity. By the square
of the Pajares paraded Medicine and Law, and around the erect yellow or red flag, broke the
music playing merry waltzes, who quickly populated the balconies.

Noisy expansion of youth care free and invaded the place as a deafening drunkenness. Three-cornered
hats flew onto the balconies, each pretty face flourishes caused endless where the hyperbole dilatábase
to the unknown, and boy was driven by a treacherous shot, he despised the vulgar invitation of
the stairs, climbing the front, holding onto the bars, to deliver a bouquet of flowers to the
girl and ask a drive to the mother.

Concha y Amparo received a standing ovation and Dona Manuela, red with pride, divided ESP smiles
and the whole swarm of black devils, hawkers and gestures that crowded
under the balcony.

Behind them was Andresito Cuadros, who had just entered in the cloak room with plywood, a cloth
smeared with black infamous shirt and face. He carried bouquets for Mom and girls, and was talkative,
bold, though, with great disappointment Amparito, did not try like the others, climbing the
facade, a system that she thought very interesting.

In the afternoon, the galerita nelet hooked, and Alameda, where the party took the character
a drunken slave Saturnalia.

The costume of a peasant was a pretext for all sorts of brutal expansions, and accompanied
by the jingling of the bells of the leagues, groups breeches trotting ironed flowers vests,
blankets waving and stiff silk scarves. A deafening howl, a "Che ... e. .. e! "shrill, extended
to infinity, as the battle cry of the skin red, touched the streets. The maids, Sunday best,
they fled in panic upon hearing the shouting; and spent the tribe at a gallop, taking furious jumps,
with its horribly grotesque masks and brandishing over their heads
huge painted wood blades with vermilion spots the curved blade.

Scrambled eggs with them, were the costumes as always: doodles with wrinkled Levites hats and
decorated with arabesques of cards, babies poking their beard under the mask and rattle in
time to the cynical saying enormities, whistling Green Devils with anger and lashing with
its tail to fool; Roma with a mangy donkey dying tinted stripes like a zebra, clowns agile,
with a nasty old ragged broom shoulder, and uncles' to Higui! "hitting the pole and blowing
up the bait before the squad sweet boys with their mouths open.

All this invasion of dummies who jogged around the city, shouting
like a lunatic asylum loose headed to the Alameda, passed the bridge
of the Royal involved with the crowd, and so they were on the promenade,
going around to the plantation to give unbearable joke, sounding slaps
with the greatest ease.

The galerita of Pajares, despite its varnished cover of harnesses and bright yellow wheels, so
thin and light that looked like a toy, appeared shrunken and dull at the huge chain of saloons
and spools, Factories and dog-carts, as arcaduces the wheel, were
all late round and round the central avenue of the ride.

Rafaelito had disguised themselves as clowns, and their ilk occupied a moving car, on the cover
of which mischief were greeted with rude words and all the girls they were within range of their
voices piping. Look at those funny guys!

The coach of Dona Manuela had an escort. A handsome man with black domino, riding a horse rent,
went all afternoon and stuck to the door, talking to Shell, while Amparo watching mom and masks.
It was Roberto del Campo, which, despite its elegance, was becoming
a postmodern, which flourishes only knew that, but never declared.

Mom beginning to find not so appealing to that espantanovios. God knows how many propositions
have lost the child because of this man, who enjoyed all the intimacies of a boyfriend never to
be undecided. But Conchita is deaf to the advice from Mom. She would fish, men ready to lay them
to fall when you least expect it: everything was a matter time and
present a good face.

Passed and Dona Manuela Carnival was in full Lent. It was time to purge the wastage and joys of the
season. The French couturier had the account suits for girls, and also needed money for household
expenses. Total, Dona Manuela needed three thousand.

Her friend Donna Clara, the broker lenders, of which Don Juan spoke pests, not found money for the
widow of Pajares.

- Frankly, Dona Manuela: you have so many notes that world, and renewed interest not always charge
...! My friends refuse to give a penny.

If you found a person with guarantees that would endorse his signature ...!

Person guarantees ...! It was not so easy to find this, asked lenders
to so simply. There was his brother, only with a word could get her
out of trouble; but had to think about such miserable, able to leave
his entire family perish before Losing a peseta. What a plight! And
as a distinguished person she had to put in a predicament for a few
pesetas, when so many thousands had thrown through the window at other
times ...!

Had to pay the dressmaker, the idea that it could tell
the truth to their parishioners, all ladies who, horrified by the
widow, although she had no friends with them.

"Do not be afraid of me," said Bergenheim, drawing back a few steps; "my presence should not
frighten you.  I only wish that people should know that I have passed the night in your chamber,
for it is possible that my return may arouse suspicion.  You know that our love is only a comedy
played for the benefit of our servants."

There was such affected lightness in these remarks that the young woman was cut to the very
quick.  She had expected an explosion of anger, but not this calm contempt.  Her revolted pride
gave her courage.

"I do not deserve to be treated thus," said she; "do not condemn me without a hearing."

"I ask nothing of you," replied Christian, who seated himself again beside the mantel; "undress
yourself, and go to sleep if it is possible for you to do so.  It is not necessary for Justine
to make any comments tomorrow about your day clothes not having been removed."

Instead of obeying him, she went toward him and tried to remain standing in order to speak
to him, but her emotion was so intense that it took away her strength and she was obliged to
sit down.

"You treat me too cruelly, Christian," said she, when she had succeeded to recover her voice.
"I am not guilty; at least, not so much as you think I am--" said she, drooping her head.

He looked at her attentively for a moment, and then replied, in a voice which did not betray
the slightest emotion:

"You must know that my greatest desire is to be persuaded of this by you. Repeated every year, and there was nobody among the guests who do not the
wait. But had to repeat the sacramental phrase, excuses for heading, and while all claimed that
they were thirsty and asked angrily to homeowners why bother, tongue, dry heat, seemed to stick
to the palate, and eyes were after the gold fillet cups containing the steaming chocolate,
wide glasses blue on which stood their twisted monteras sorbet red or yellow, and lacquer covered
trays of sweets. Had to resign and do a rebuff to the lords home. And a few minutes they were
friends around the table, covered with cloth biscuit crumbs, empty gourds chocolate wafers and
nailing in the bowels of sorbets.

Doña Manuela spoke with Mr. Cuadros, Teresa had placed beside her
husband, the hope of achieving their catechism.

This lady, who knew so much and so great experience had acquired in marital misery, their
only hope.

The widow spoke with his former clerk, smiling. How the man had changed! Doña Manuela, knowledgeable
expert, noted in him a certain audacity, as the boy who emancipated from maternal authority
and launch into life full of crazy.

The widow, always smiling, amazed at his words with double meanings, of roguish winks which accompanied
his words, and even seemed oh power of illusion! was in his person a strange perfume beginning to
fray the nerves of Dona Manuela, some of the environment of that bad skin of the street from
the Port, that the guard had no doubt brought to his home honest.

Meanwhile, Teresa, while addressing the guests and overwhelm them with gifts, not take his eyes
off her husband and caring friend. Doña Manuela felt a deep pity every time you noticed the
poor wife. Well her husband was trying to conversions! Mr. Cuadros was a man lost forever,
he had a hungry like the forbidden fruit, after years of obscure and laborious life, not knowing
what Young was working as a beast of burden. Prior to die than to be satisfied. Nothing could advance
his wife away from Clarita.

The skulls are terrible fifties for his candor, and although isolated, are capable of falling
in love with the maid of the house.

Doña Manuela We stated further in this to notice what was happening
around her.

Who was one foot under the table, stepped on yours? What was that knee so boldly stroking her
silk skirt? Mr. Cuadros, to this honest family man who answered his honeyed words and gestures
seemed to measure up and down with their eyes dazzled.

Poor Teresa! Perhaps he imagined that the words of Dona Manuela unmoved by wayward making it into
the path of repentance, not even remotely guessed that his husband, by a strange aberration, which
came through a lot of pride, began to excited about something fading beauty of the wife of his
former principal.

The widow he felt disturbed by such audacity; agitábase nervously
in his seat, but was silent and still smiling.

I thought that the situation imposed hiatus, and that the friendship of marriage Pictures it was
very necessary to save their lady troubles in decline, beset by debts.

In addition, the future of his daughter, his Amparito, was there,
and the widow throwing a look of maternal anxiety at the end of the
table, where the child was with Andresito getting cuddly kitten with
gestures of sweets and the words of her boyfriend.

After half an hour of desktops, the meeting broke up. The men went in search of their hats and ladies
besuqueábanse to leave, muttering all the same greeting:

- Until next year. May God preserve us all health, to see the procession.

Were

parading all families, and finally left alone the Pajares, waiting Juanito or Raphael to accompany
them home.

Mr. Cuadros was harassing Dona Manuela It was up, running away from the bold intimidated by
the table below, but followed her stockbroker to continue their conversation. Now the two were next
to Teresa, and the husband was allowed only pleasantries and memories
on the great friendship that had always united the two families.

-
The boys take to come - said Don Antonio -.

Rafael will be with his friends, and as Juanito, you attract mandatory obligations. I am told
that now has a girlfriend and is mad for her. Youth! Oh, what a great thing! I already know
that, right, Teresa?

And as if sensing what he thought his wife and wanted to appease in
advance, throwing a the obese lady a look of tenderness, as an honest
man and of moral probity remembering its quiet honeymoon.

Doña Manuela was amazed. Decidedly, this Clarita had changed the man. He was a rascal. And instead
of outraged by the cruelty with which he lied and tried to deceive his woman, the widow began
to find sympathetic, seeing it as a resurrection of second husband,
the doctor that the skull had so loved.

- If you want, and I will
accompany Andresito.

Doña Manuela, animated by an instinct bashful, tried to excuse.

- Yes, the accompanying Antonio - Teresa said quickly.

And the poor woman begging with her eyes to accept, as if for her hope her husband prolonged
conversation with the widow. Who knows what could I say Dona Manuela's husband cheating!

There was no way to apologize.

The left Pajares Andresito and accompanied by Don Antonio following them with his eyes anxiously
Teresa gullible. My God, to soften the hearts the man, lest the shocking martyr himself to the family
and friends!

Down in the closed shop, they found Don Eugenio, always with the beanie silk, sullenly which welcomed
his former clerk. The Bird and his two companions followed by a sidewalk market. Before the two
girls with Andresito, Concha moody and scowling all day because he
had not seen the elegant Robert, and very satisfied Amparo able to
showcase a boyfriend, to the annoyance of his sister.

Behind Mr. Tables giving arm Dona Manuela, intentionally squeezing
your elbow on your hip every time you let go daring and swagger a
little word as an invincible conqueror.

It was more than accompany the Pajares what did the father and son. They came up with they remained
for over an hour visit, he sang Amparito to give to his future father, they took to the streets,
the father and son marched fraternally united as partners by a common enterprise.

Only a few months had passed, but were already far away for those times tables the shopkeeper of
quiet habits and routine was indignant to learn that his son was
to dances and I was waiting behind the door clutching the measuring
stick fiercely.

IX

At four p.m. Pajares entered the Paseo de la Alameda.

It was Sunday, and noisy and expansive entertainment holidays filled the left hand side the
ride. The weather was beautiful: a summer afternoon, the sky cloudless, and what higher, as
a thin wisp of steam and barely visible, the moon, waiting patiently it is the turn to shine.
The long rows of roses, the clumps of plants, all that gardening mutilated and corrected by the
scissors in the manger, was green with the breath warm in the afternoon
and was covered with flowers, perfumes simple joining the wake of
essences Ladies who left in its wake.

For the central stream and whirled round like the wheel arcaduces,
carriages lined in an endless rosary.

The towers of the guards raised their caps painted tiles above the trees, and the two ends of
the promenade, dwarfed by distance, stood out on the monumental fountains green background with light
mythological figures clothes. It was the time the trip took on its most brilliant. A gallop
of barouches down spirited horses and saloons, and on the sidewalks of the parade walk slowly procession
to pass, families Sunday best. The green banks did not have a seat free. Beehive buzzing sounded
on the trip, so silent and deserted in the morning and some families naive talking loudly, causing
the compassionate smile that went hand in the brand new hat, waving a few heads rigid sombrerazos peered
through the windows of the carriages.

What attracted the attention of all was the endless parade of cars, symbols of happiness and welfare
in a country where the desire to get rich has no desire not to go on foot other mortals.

Horses pawing with his mouth full of foam, spreading around the smell of straw blocks, and occasionally
a whinny infusing the spirited gross line, which seemed answered with a nervous kicking this
call for freedom. The drivers, dressed in their white frocks, displayed at the top of the gallows,
their faces shaved and carrilludas obese or pastors comedians well preserved, and looked with
contempt to all that crowd were forced to spend a few hours of tedium. In the long line of vehicles
was the old phaeton, rocking on its springs as a big box and enclosing funeral in its interior
padding whole family, including the nurse, the lightweight saloon with its wheels red or yellow,
the reel, like a gondola, swaying to the lower land inequality, and indigenous galerita, graceful
transformation of the trap and a symbol of the petty bourgeoisie that stopped in the middle of
social metamorphosis, has one foot in the village, where applicable, and another in the aristocracy,
where it goes.

There seemed to be invisible and impassable barrier between people walking on foot and those
heads sticking out the windows, contracting with a smile always the same when received the
greetings of the people I know. Groups of riders mixed with young officers snails cavalry
between the carriages, lying sometimes on the neck of their horses to talk through a door. Pajares
those contemplated with banished nostalgia over the carriages. Great God, how late! Would remember
her life! It was the first time they went on foot to the Alameda. The girls, despite their elegant
suits, believed that all were set in them to smile sympathetically, and Dona Manuela walked
upright, proudly painful, more or less like Napoleon on St. Helena
after denoted. The widow sensed his ruin.

They were not distressed debt and monetary the bitterness of life, but now, fate, as she said, pleased
to overwhelm her with the beating, depriving the family of limited means to sustain that detracted
from his reputation.

That morning had been tested for Pajares. Nelet the driver went very alarmed to account to their
wives that the horse was sick. The event was not to take to laugh. It was not vulgar colic,
and the poor beast, unconscious sustaining prestige of the family, revolcábase down in the dark and
wet block, being belly up and paws stirred by a convulsive shudder.

The situation was ridiculous and touching. Many years of service had established some affection
between the ladies and the brave beast it was considered almost like family. Doña Manuela,
recording the train of her gown theater down the block, not passing the door for fear the horse,
which rolled furious.

Called the best veterinarian in the city, but the horse did not improve, and in the afternoon
desvaneciéronse the illusions that had the girls to ride in a carriage. Acquired almost certain
that the poor horse would not leave the disease.

What would they do when they see them confused between the corny who walked on foot along
the Alameda? What would her friends to see it passed time and the
beautiful galerita, of how proud they were, remained wedged in the
garage?

Because the two, although his mother, not to grieve, the hidden status house, were fully aware
of the plight of the family and were confident of the impossibility to replace the old but fiery
horse with one that were worth as much as him.

After eating, the mother and daughter sat down in the lounge, where they remained over an hour,
silent, sullen and moody. The day was gorgeous, but no, they would not leave: nuns that the
world first to know of their decline, their hardships so ably hidden.

But the three could not resign himself to spending the day indoors. In addition, the balconies
the sun came and blew an irritant perfume-laden air of summer. Involuntarily thought in the green
fields, in the exuberant crowd stroll in the pleasure of walking
slowly under the tilted umbrellas, seeing new faces and responding
to the greeting of friends, and finally mothers and daughters could
not resist any longer and began to dress.

- Do not be so scrupulous
- said Dona Manuela -.

We all know, and because one day walk out to see us not going to imagine that we lack the
carriage. Come on girls, to walk!

And they went home with the intention to go anywhere but to the Alameda. But the tour be turned on,
do not know where to go, and at last, insensibly, without agreeing, on they went there.

What Pajares spent the late afternoon! Were always outside, the girls answered Funny grimaces
with the greetings of friends, and mom, proud and majestic, sheltering
him all with their eyes for protection.

But inside many torments! If any friend of waving from his carriage with loving expression, the
three believed guess some semblance of pity, and reddened under Blanquete layer covering her cheeks.
If a known person stopped to greet them, them, one-eyed or right-and often all three at a
time rushed to say they'd walk out in view of the beauty of the evening, and continued looking with
nostalgia and spite the long line of carriages, experiencing the
same impression of our biblical fathers before the closed gates of
Paradise forever.

Then why such painful memories! All three of them obsessed with horse sickness, as if he were
family. He was sorry for having left home, felt the false hope for those who are interested in
a patient and believe that by remaining at his side accelerate healing. Saluted right and left; deteníanse
to shake hands, changing words about the weather or the outfits they wore on the ride over,
but his eyes were unconsciously to dwell on those horses who spent a few steps from them, and in
everyone, whether from the color, the head or rump, were somewhat similar to the other who was in
his memory.

That evening meetings were very painful. Andresito, the son of Paintings, went through the two
rows of mounting the huge big horse carriages that had bought his father. Sought the bride to
be escorted, wearing their skills around his horse carriage.

The innocent gesture of surprise that made to see them walk, confused between dominguera kitsch,
was a real stab to the three women.

Everything hurt their susceptibility. Roberto del Campo, who was with some friends, greeted
the most seductive of smiles, but they believed his lips distinguish ironic expression. Undoubtedly,
that junk Rafaelito Roberto had related to the horse. Were sure that all knew the ride unpleasant
event, guessing what was coming later. And blinded by wounded vanity, no doubt recalling the taunts
that they had conducted other families, turbábanse at times, thinking
she saw thousands of eyes on them and Rijos Ladies from the carriages
of smiling contemptuously, as if they were reared in disguise.

They even thinking shiver of terror if your s behind the laughably would point finger. And always
the damn horse was in his thoughts, seeing through the eyes of imagination
as it was on your block to ride them out, belly up, stretching legs
convulsively.

The three bear within them, as implacable enemy, his own thought, which made them see the mockery
and pity everywhere, and even believed some times known people pretended not to greet distraction.

-
Come on, girls - said the mother with an expression that vibrated
the pain and anger -, we home to see how it is "that."

Today the ride is very cheesy.

The girls supported the mother in a gesture of approval.

It was really, really cheesy, and the three set a disastrous withdrawal, overwhelmed, overcome, as
if it had to sustain a battle with public consideration, being beaten and battered. Going up
the ramp bridge Real had to depart from the curb, wiping with the lace scarves dust raised
by wheels of a carruajillo discovered running speed insolent over all in.

It was the last surprise. Mr. Cuadros, pulling the reins to restrain his swift horse and waving
his whip, the waving from the top of that nutshell wheels.

At his side was Teresa, overflowing their flesh flabby on the bench blue velvet moving his head
uneasily, as if the hood bothered you, loaded with roses and foliage,
gift from her husband.

- Until the night .... Goodbye, girls.

Tonight I'll see you.

And Teresa sent a smile with no expression to his old lady, and pleading
not to leave the task of religious instruction to her husband.

Dona Manuela was good for such information! He knew what he meant
the assiduous visits sometimes in the evening and others at night,
which made one fifty, but did not think that now. The meeting had
just upset her. His former coach bred, soiled by the dust of the wheels,
and she, the daughter of a millionaire, the widow of Dr. Pajares,
ski and humiliated by some people whom he had always treated with
contempt. I had never imagined what might happen. Burdened by debt,
waiting for the fall but not so deep and hurt to their dignity.

This
was too strong to resist. And the poor woman, all susceptibility and
pride felt something warm running together in their eyes, and had
to make efforts not to mourn. Its fast pace was a real leak. Fleeing
the ride, the one luxury that some days before was her element and
now seemed an insult.

When they entered the square where they lived,
the sight of his house, the gate ajar, enclosed balconies and facade
obscured by the last light of evening had a certain aspect funeral,
revived the memory of the three memories of the horse.

- God! How
will the poor Brilliant?  Remember that it is necessary that one of you should fall, and that if you fail;
he will not.  Take your time--aim --and fire at him as you would at a rabbit."

After this last piece of advice, he went away; ten minutes after he had left, Gerfaut saw him
riding out of the courtyard as fast as Beverley's four legs would carry him.

CHAPTER XXV

THE WILD BOAR

The most radiant sun that ever gilded a beautiful September day had arisen upon the castle.
The whole valley was as fresh and laughing as a young girl who had just left her bath.  The
rocks seemed to have a band of silver surrounding them; the woods a mantle of green draped
over their shoulders.

There was an unusual excitement in the courtyard of the chateau. You're like
which has never set foot marble, and the first step down. You're like the digger that gets gloves,
and since it puts them lose touch, and it is as if he had no hands ... Go, run, get out soon,
saying, 'shoe company, you squeeze me and I remove my feet. Order Politics, Religion, Morality,
Family, gibberish, fastidiáis me, I burst inside of you as in a tight dress ... We throw away
from me and I command two hundred thousand demons ...'».

D. Francisco gave a great sigh, which seemed to be tore out his soul. Said to his woman consoling
phrases, but he, like those with great tribulation, he knew of no relief their pain than the
pain itself, and tending his soul with the remembrance of his misfortune. What was this? Let
us prontito. He had won his overcoat in the wardrobe !!!... Palace This grim, horrifying event
was not new at parties palate, nor had dancing not disappeared three or four layers or coats
... The fiend who took over that rich pledge left in place a rag ragged and dirty that you could
not watch. In the heated D. Fantasy Francisco never left the image of your brand new coat, with
that clear cloth clean and pure that it seemed the hairy skin of an apricot, with that silk lining
I was a charm. In desperation, the officer thought worthy to give part to the courts, aside the
case of His Majesty, bring the matter to the press, but the propriety of the Palace stopped him.
If he cogiera the rogue, scoundrel, that ...! It seems incredible that some people kind of goal
in these solemnities Augusta! ... A country where such things happen, where they committed such
rampage near the steps of the throne, was a lost country. To distract
picked up a newspaper.

"You can no longer be any doubt - with funereal accent said after
reading a bit -; the revolution comes, comes the revolution.

"

- I'm glad!

... Come! - Augustine said stopping at his cousin.
- This does not fix it and nobody ... The populist spirit has bolted
... crashes nationwide, it decays. Poor Spain! ... God save the country,
God save the Queen!

- Good ...

- Because there is more than reading
any scrap of paper to see that this is out of joint ... What disorder
of ideas, how daring, that lack of shame, shame ...!

There was a moment's silence, broken only by the trot of the horses and the sound of the wheels
upon the level ground.

"What the devil ails your dogs?"  exclaimed Monsieur de Camier suddenly, as he turned to the
Baron, who was riding behind him.  "There they are all making for the river."  Just at this
moment the dogs, who could be seen in the distance, hurried to the water-side, in spite of
all that their leader could do to prevent them.  They almost disappeared behind the willows
that bordered the river, and one could hear them barking furiously; their barks sounded like
rage mingled with terror.

"It is some duck that they have scented," observed the prosecutor.

"They wouldn't bark like that," said Monsieur de Camier, with the sagacity of a professional
hunter; "if it were a wolf, they could not make a greater uproar. A month earlier would not have hesitated to turn to his former clerk, despite
how much it hurt his pride. But now, think of the boldness that is allowed Corpus Christi Day and
many others made by the stockbroker in his daily visits, Dona Manuela shame he stopped, and be
lit room, had seen her blush.

She, who did not remember so many years for no Melchor Pena, sentíalo roam around as a guardian spirit
of his honorable widowhood. The doctor, from her second husband, did not remember for nothing.
One good piece with his infidelities, he had no right to demand accounts
I could do.

What most surprised him was that caused it will now be shown as terrible scruples when, after his
first widowhood easily and insensibly fell into the arms of Pajares. Love had drowned then
all the worries, but now it was a holding dishonorable, a sale that resulted only assume it will shame
and embarrassment. The pride you did regain his post. Paintings, despite his fortune, it was still
the old dependent the husband of the maid Teresa, a poor devil who had always treated her with
contempt.

And why such a man would lose his prestige as an honorable woman, sustained for many years at
the expense of sacrifices that kept them in the mystery? No, before misery.

Dona Manuela, intoxicated with the power of resolution, I thought of poverty as something unknown,
but it was pleasant seeming to be the salvation of his honor. Would work She and her daughters.
Also duchesses, princesses and queens had been up in poverty, braving
dignity.

Dona Manuela, reviewing their limited knowledge of history, his pride was flattered and felt almost
like a dethroned sovereign falling into poverty. This enough to affirm it in its resolution.

When Rafael and Johnny came home, the family went to dinner.

The dinner was sad. Seemed the body lying down in the dirt on the block, was there on the table,
looking glassy-eyed and motionless with their former masters. After dinner, the two brothers left,
each going his own way.

Johnny had changed his habits. Did not return home until eleven o'clock at night, and then to
make a short visit to Tonic and Michelle, went to a cafe where people
gathered Exchange and could be seen daily reviews and prophecies of
"bullish" and "bears."

At nine p.m. Pajares received a visit from Andresito and dad. Dona Manuela to see his former clerk,
she blushed, as if he could guess the thoughts that had stirred little earlier.

Mr. Cuadros showed himself joyful and radiant, as if he is happy news
that in the yard nelet had given him.

"So the horse was dead? Come on, now explaining why they were that afternoon walk on the Alameda.
Was to feel the loss, because a horse to replace Bright worthily had to cost some money, but
what the devil! four or five thousand real or harm anyone. And the Lord spoke of money Tables
sneer throwing back her head and pulling the belly as if it were lined with bank notes.

The girls talked to Andresito near the piano, and Dona Manuela, calm and self-possession herself,
she stared at his former clerk. The shocked by the contempt with which that man spoke of money,
and received a bloody sarcasm the assumption that four or five thousand
reais meant nothing to her.

And thinking this, his eyes went instinctively into the marble of a console, where it had been
exhibited magnificent silver candlesticks now stored in the Monte de Piedad, and also looked
at the sticker adorning flights the classroom walls, replacing two
large paintings inherited from his father, the work of Juan Juanes,
for which he had given the need to live for a month.

The man, blinded by his fortune, did not know what he said. Like she was some years before
when he farms to sell or pawn and threw the money hand over fist. But now shameful and carefully
hidden poverty had taught him the value of money.

Mr. Cuadros, always ignorant of the true situation of the house, terribly upset Dona Manuela.
Wanted to appear friendly, and this made offers that were sarcasm. He is responsible for the purchase
of the horse.

How it would be cheaper, for a Shiny beast as beautiful as that would only pay about three thousand.
He knew the most famous horse-dealers. The horse he was riding his son had bought almost a bargain,
and now hoped to have the same fate.

- What is right for you, Manuela, is to buy the horse as soon as possible
because if people you see them walking many days like today make malicious
comments.

Those of us at some point look at us owe us a lot in our stuff.

And the lucky fool, talking of the height, closed his eyes as if he
felt the vertigo of which are at the top.

What caused the greatest effect in Dona Manuela was the claim that people would comment if
not shown in public as usual. Now reappeared the pride of his character, shuddering at the thought
of mortifying shame with which talk about his ruin.

She was non-resignation coping with poverty. Was determined. There be sustained in height, using all
means, and then to come around, until what only blush at the thought both produced.

And the lady vain to assert its resolution, seeking examples and remember
what I had so often heard in the infamous gossip gatherings: the innumerable
cases so decent ladies like her, well regarded by society, and who
had made sacrifices equal to salvage the prestige of their homes.

And supported by the pernicious example of those women who had both censored dependent looked old
with eyes that revealed a reasoned and calm immodesty. At last - she thought for comfort - Mr. Cuadros,
but vulgar and vulgarote, was a man acceptable, and had to resign
her other women, to seek the protection of a valetudinarian disgusting.

The

stockbroker sensed something in the eyes of the wife of his former principal. And credulity old skull
and innocent threw the body back with some pride, as if convinced
that their personal belongings had influenced such an amazing achievement.

The

visit ended at midnight, and when the father and son ran toward the door, accompanied by the
ladies of the house, Dona Manuela changed his last words to Mr. Cuadros.

-
We were - "Mrs. - that you will be responsible for the purchase of
the horse.

Tomorrow I trust that my request will be made.

- Oh, sure ...! You know that all things interest me as my own business.

- So, come tomorrow at three and give him the money.

- Will you shut up? And fix it later accounts .... But in the end, I will come to have the
pleasure of a chat.

And Mr. Cuadros left the house pleased with himself, snorting with satisfaction, swaggering as
a young and looking a bit sorry for her son, who walked beside him shy and timid. A cheerful
optimism made him forget that his father was. Ah! If instead of the fifty he had peak years of that
nerd, war had to give much in the world!

The next day, Mr. Cuadros was on time for three p.m. entered Dona Manuela, and was pleasantly
surprised to see that the woman was alone in the room, dressed with
the most elegant of gowns and face touched up with the finest concoction
toilet girls.

The stockbroker was like a rebirth of life, something that reminded her fever young, when
as chief clerk joked and chased the maid in the backroom Teresa Las Tres Rosas.

The girls had been sent by her mother's house "the judges." Juanito was in tent, and as Rafael, did not
have to wait until late at night.

In the dining room could hear the sound of silverware Visanteta dried, the only learned the visit
of Mr. Cuadros and how long it was. She was the one who heard the muffled laughter lady and the
dragging of some furniture, as if they were driven to violence, but a girl was cautious and
restrained, which only dealt with his actions, without pausing to interpret outsiders.

The next day the family could go for a ride in his carriage, and a younger horse and Bright took
best picture that the void that his death had left in the manger. The bitterness incurred
on that Sunday were forgotten before a few times abound and had enjoyed in that house. Doña
Manuela had money, started to pay bills regularly; providers do not bother and demanding payment
of arrears, and the French dressmaker, After pocketing a few thousand real thought lost forever,
the girls did Pajares new outfits to show off at the fair in July.

All was joy and peace in Dona Manuela, and impacted the family happy Las Tres Rosas, where we considered
the simple Teresa happy. She knew her husband had Clarita definitively broken, that "bad skin"
that lived on the streets of the port. And quarters did not pay the mezzanine, or attending to their
crazy spending.

What is more, a soul charity she had not heard that this loss was
deceiving him, mocking him with the kids Stock Exchange, and showed
himself unrepentant Antonio, ready to protect not just more women ilk.

The poor Teresa, to think that his former mistress was the one who had performed such a miracle,
attracting her husband on the right track, I felt such gratitude that he could not talk about it
without being to tears. What good person was Dona Manuela! She had only known catechize Mr.
Cuadros.

X

Juanito lived given the turmoil and anxiety of trusting their future to the whims chance.

He, so methodical and careful to fulfill their obligations, leaving the store to go to Bag with
his principal, or places where they met their peers operating financial. Valiente thing mattered
The Three Roses! She did not want to own the store. The first earnings, easily acquired with
sweet, I had stopped and thought only Be a Millionaire, to enslave fortune, now laugh about
those times when I dreamed Tonic to the humdrum existence and quiet bourgeois routine, after amassing
farthing capital farthing to spend old age quietly.

His girlfriend practically restrained financial enthusiasms.

There was to tempt fortune; and now that he was in favor, it was crazy not to retire on time.

But
Juanito refused to listen. What do the women in business? Why were there to stay in the middle
of the road, when he could follow his master to the paradise of millionaires? Increasingly
love Tonic, he flattered the idea of ​​getting married immediately,
but this impulsábale same care to wait.

It was better to contain their desires for a few months, year at most, let their capital, turning
the bag, were enlarged as a snowball; they possess the long-awaited and respected million, making
the transformation was complete: enjoy watching the poor grisette became, under the direction
of his vain mother, in elegant lady, with big house, carriage and other trappings of wealth.

The
desire for swift action to this desired end was what made him bold and muted fears of a likely
ruin. Those who had known him in the past asombrábanse for radical change in his character.
His uncle, Don Juan did not speak and with him. One day gave broken relationship, it was about
to beat his nephew.

- Johnny, you're a fool - said the miser with his lips trembling with anger, erizándosele brush
mustache -. I always believed that your character had more than your father to my sister and
therefore I did but now I see that I cheated. I have lost bad company, that lying atmosphere in which
you live, your examples of wasteful mother's advice your principal fool, believed to be an oracle
in business to earn money for blind a whimsical mockery luck, and someday will pay all together,
giving me a taste you can laugh to see him shirtless. And you will do the same. Go if you
will ...!

Selling the garden to make you the owner of the Three Roses and marry this girl, who, as I
have understood, a good person, would have been like your uncle. And if you're missing something,
here was I to respond. So you had come to me: 'Dude, I need this, that and the other thing',
we at the end of the street.

But now, you understand? Do not count for anything with me.

As if you were my nephew. As I've gone to all of your family, and I can not love. I thought
you, want you to be the that was beside my bed at the hour of my
death, and to recount the four quarters I have, I said: 'This is for
the guy.

"But now I'm disappointed. Walk, walk, become a millionaire in the stock market, and if you get
into a beggar, do not come looking for me, because what will your guy is laughing at how gross
you are.

The sad break with his uncle Johnny. He had not known any other father, and also in their merchant
calculations, had always appeared the hope of being the heir of Don Juan. But the agitations
of the Exchange, and especially profits, cushioned sorrow the break.

When ends meet, earned the "differences," he said with surprise:

"It seems impossible for us to censure for taking a holding as true. But bah! Who makes these
people for tolerance! "

And between the stale not only included his uncle, but Don Eugenio,
the founder of Las Tres Rosas also expressed strong dissatisfaction
to the young.

Whenever Johnny was in the tent with the old merchant, it will soon glances of compassion
as contempt. Sometimes they even came to murmur reproachfully:

- Oh, Johnny, Johnny ...! I see you lost. Tables that demon drags you into perdition .... Do
not defend, do not try to justify yourself. Now you're doing very well so you can convince;
but the fry will be laughing.

And the old man turned his back, confident that the facts would come to support their forecasts.

Only
at home was Juanito applause and consideration. Her mother wanted more from I saw him handed
over to business. His son was no longer dependent on trade, was a stockbroker, and that always
provides higher social status. In addition, earnings were a source of hope for the widow,
that although he saw all their needs met this, I kept feeling worried
about the future.

Juanito's good fortune could solidify the prestige of the house.

The proximity of the July fair to the family concerned. Never had spent evenings so nice in the
house of the de Pajares. At night, after dinner came Mr Paintings, Theresa and her son, and began
the joyous reunion.

By open balconies penetrated the breath of neon hazy summer full of
enervating perfumes.

We encouraged the square. Heat cast their narrow dens people from the lower floors, and doors
were blocked by cliques of white shadows sitting on low chairs and breathing noisily. Up on the
roof, covering the Place a sheet of satin moth-eaten that was transparently infinite points of
light, sky the summer with his mysterious and opaque transparency. In the dark balconies could
be distinguished, among the pots of flowers and put the jug to cool
silhouettes scantily clad confusing.

Others open and lighted, bypassed, such as those of birds, the sound
click the piano, sometimes accompanied by the steady drip of new irrigated
pots.

In the corridors of the huge partíanse square watermelons, and women on the noserag chest to get rid of
spots, devoured the slices as crescents, wipe the red mouth juice. Whispered a door with a
melancholy guitar strumming, answering from another accordion with his shrill and nasal shriek.
The noises of the square, laughing of people, shouting that crossed between the cliques and popular
music, came in the cool of the evening in the lounge of the Pajares,
serving deaf support the conversation of the party.

Girls, Andresito, made plans for the next exhibition. They remembered the rigodones in Hall of Agriculture
and lively waltz in the Trade, thought of the costumes that had brought
the French fashion designer, and kept intact in order to knock on
the Alameda on the first night of the fair, and even felt their evil
little joy considering effect their cause in the friendly elegance.

The calm and happiness had returned to the house.

So Conchita, despite angry and moody character, we felt happy to see Roberto "returned to the
fold", being more in love than before. In the evening, leaving his friend Rafael, attended the
gathering of Pajares and not content with the long conversations there argued with his girlfriend,
still in the mornings, when it was Amparo the toilet, the maids in the Market and Mom in bed,
up the stairs, and landing to the open door of the room, over an hour talking to Conchita, until
Dona Manuela got up and started moving the house.

The major concern of the family were the three bullfights, the loudest
celebration of the fair.

The gathering had already completed their projects. Mr. Cuadros buy a box the best for both
families and the same thing that Teresa Pajares, proponíanse deslumbar audiences with its
elegance.

The girls had prepared their costumes to "my beautiful" and a number of times they had tried
before the mirror to learn to put in a natural and tasteful white blanket lace. As for the
two breasts, wearing dark suits thought silk, with costly shawls black, gifted to the two by
Mr. Picton.

The day came for the first run. The atmosphere seemed charged with a strange environment madness and
brutality.

Arremolinábase morning people, with pushing and shoving, around of resellers in the Plaza
de San Francisco hawked the "sun" and "shadow", and as if the city had just suffered an invasion,
stumbled in with people from everywhere the garden and people: some corduroy trousers and multicolored
blanket, and others types sly de la Ribera, dressed in black cloth,
fine, jacket over his shoulder, revealing the white sleeve shirt,
rubber boots get in the way, and holding a stick thin, almost childlike,
always moved with aggressive insolence.

The crowd had the same look in every street, as if the whole city had Dress according to the
same pattern. Cordoba hats white felt or seafaring straw-colored jackets, red ties, and in every
mouth a cigar inch.

The Descent of San Francisco was a rush on the endlessly rolling waves of crowds. The ponies Pamplona,
​​covered with borlajes restless and bells rattling, passed like lightning through the crowd by
pulling the colored tartanillas, cars stately carriages and English, in whose banks erguíanse as
the swaying flowers girls dressed in pink or blue, his face enhanced by the frame of white
lace. The little people, the laying of the sun, went in groups, with the huge boot to the shoulder
and Liria cudgel in hand, smelling of wine and shouting, as if he
began to feel drunk insolation that awaited them in the square.

Ragged boys broke the waves of the crowd, offering life in Lagartijo Cie. hallelujah, history and portraits
of the six bulls that were to deal, or hawked about Wood fans rough and in which a clumsy hand
was stamped as a bull a skin of wine and a bullfighter who looked like a frog skinned.

The thrill-seekers babieca agolpábanse off the inns where they were staying gangs, patiently awaiting
the departure of the bullfighters play with respect to the braid diestrus. People pushed through
with curiosity each time a chopper packaging on the chair and the boy went to the rump riding
his pony bony and gaunt, he had to the square with a trot mess.

Among the carriages thundering streets quickly and crossed the center of the city Tables spent
the stroller, and behind it a reel that would rent the Pajares. Doña Manuela preferred site,
dusted and touched up with such art, which produced her face Print some sticking out between the
festoons of black lace, and in front of her girls hilarious as a bullfighting magazine chrome with
low shoe, fishnet stockings, skirt half-step with a net full of strawberry and looking boldly
on the white cloud that enveloped their lovely heads, closing over the chest with a bunch of carnations.

What
a beautiful evening! They never felt the happier Pajares life. In descending of her carriage in front
of the plaza, the compliments showered on them, and for all there,
up to the mother, breathing loudly and blushed, pleased with the win.

Undoubtedly they were the ones that are most attracted attention across the plaza. There was
only seeing them in the negligently fanning box, while much of the masters of lying, placed standing
and turning his back to the ring, looked fixedly, with eyes of desire.

Mr. Cuadros was proud of his situation. I could not complain about life. Won as wanted, like a boy
with his outfit clear, red tie and the big cigar, which ring kept the paper for everyone to
know of its price. On one side Teresa had, quietly and without feeling the slightest suspicion of infidelity,
and the other to Dona Manuela proud of the admiration that she and
her children woke up in a part of the square.

He felt satisfied with the situation, Mr. Cuadros, and the greedy eyes fixed on the stage seemed
to him a tribute to him. You could not ask for more happiness. Satisfied
with the awareness and with pleasure. On one side the legitimate wife,
the other, Dona Manuela, the satisfaction of the flesh the food of
vanity, and the two families of which he was the point of attachment,
happy, luxurious, drawing public attention thanks to her good luck
/ that allowed throw handfuls of thousands of pesetas. The stockbroker,
savoring his good fortune, claimed mentally God is very good, and
did not know what, given a confidence that will soon be a millionaire
teníala by indisputable.

In the back of the box was the son of Tables
and the two of Dona Manuela, with twins in hand, watching the look
of the plaza. In the laying of shadow, the circular tiers was a white
hat stepping down to the barrier. Some hoods charged of flowers or
shiny hair, standing on the shawls from Manila, broke the monotony
the rows of white spots. The doors of the boxes abríanse noisily,
and appeared in the rails, covered with the national colors, white
blankets, faces smiling, hair flowers, whole spring was greeted by
screaming fans below, standing on wooden benches.

Opposite the sun
cracked skin that force out sweat, the smoke was clothes and put on
a fire helmet on each head, bewildered, was the demagoguery of the
party, waiting impatiently noisy item, so willing to throw into the
arena hats in honor of the right, such as banks and sticks in protest.  Monsieur le Baron de Bergenheim,
one of the richest land- owners in our province, was killed by accident at a wild-boar hunt
on his own domains.  It was by the hand of one of his best friends, Monsieur de Gerfaut, well
known by, his important literary work, which has given its author a worldwide reputation, that
he received his death-blow.  Nothing could equal the grief of the involuntary cause of this
catastrophe. Madame de Bergenheim, upon learning of this tragic accident, was unable to survive
the death of her adored husband, and drowned herself in her despair. 

Once dominated by the aforementioned man spiritualism, hates him and the idyllic rural life and the
eclogue. Aminta and Silvia, Daphnis and Chloe, and Philemon Baucis
and authorities seem unbearable.

What is opposed, therefore it is natural to artificial.

The shooting to destroy the poetic charm the world is the spirit of industry, not science, nor religion,
nor philosophy.

A thousand times I have said and never stopped to think: the most devious and subtle experimental
wise not ever discover the secret of life, always escape the force chemical analysis mysterious
links, work and combines the individual atoms and create, love, consciousness, thought, due to
move, to grow organically, to feel and to represent one to the other beings, not ever be at the
bottom of the retorts or leave through the entrance of the stills. What network will invent the
wise delicate sprites to fish, hunt Sylphs or get the tireless gnomes from the bowels of the
earth? The only reason I have for deny its existence is that you can not catch them: they are
removed from their gross inspection senses.

Moreover, nymphs, goddesses, all supernatural beings that populated air, land and water in the
first ages of the world, can live and is likely to live now as then.

Science does not depopulated the nature or penetrates their innermost
secrets. The mystery continues and will continue forever. Isis will
not lift the veil that never covers.

Mysticism, which seeks for the
shortest path to their God, in the abyss of our own soul, not seek
to have him there in solitary confinement. 

Ocúrrele move to the next room. Is your bedroom. Proud and happy as thalamus! There also a comfortable
sofa and wide. As soon gives four steps in that room, inside warns as a penalty, as a general breakdown.


