"Alas!" said Theodore, "I have never known but calamity until this hour--perhaps shall never
know other fortune again:  suffer the chaste raptures of holy gratitude:  'tis my soul would
print its effusions on thy hand."

"Forbear, and be gone," said Matilda.  "How would Isabella approve of seeing thee at my feet?"

"Who is Isabella?" said the young man with surprise.

"Ah, me!  I fear," said the Princess, "I am serving a deceitful one.  Hast thou forgot thy
curiosity this morning?"

"Thy looks, thy actions, all thy beauteous self seem an emanation of divinity," said Theodore;
"but thy words are dark and mysterious.  Speak, Lady; speak to thy servant's comprehension."

"Thou understandest but too well!" said Matilda; "but once more I command thee to be gone:
thy blood, which I may preserve, will be on my head, if I waste the time in vain discourse."

"I go, Lady," said Theodore, "because it is thy will, and because I would not bring the grey
hairs of my father with sorrow to the grave.  Say but, adored Lady, that I have thy gentle pity."

"Stay," said Matilda; "I will conduct thee to the subterraneous vault by which Isabella escaped;
it will lead thee to the church of St. Nicholas, where thou mayst take sanctuary."

"What!" said Theodore, "was it another, and not thy lovely self that I assisted to find the
subterraneous passage?"

"It was," said Matilda; "but ask no more; I tremble to see thee still abide here; fly to the
sanctuary."

"To sanctuary," said Theodore; "no, Princess; sanctuaries are for helpless damsels, or for
criminals.  Theodore's soul is free from guilt, nor will wear the appearance of it.  Give me
a sword, Lady, and thy father shall learn that Theodore scorns an ignominious flight."

"Rash youth!" said Matilda; "thou wouldst not dare to lift thy presumptuous arm against the
Prince of Otranto?"

"Not against thy father; indeed, I dare not," said Theodore. "Excuse me, Lady; I had forgotten.
But could I gaze on thee, and remember thou art sprung from the tyrant Manfred!  But he is
thy father, and from this moment my injuries are buried in oblivion."

A deep and hollow groan, which seemed to come from above, startled the Princess and Theodore.

"Good heaven! we are overheard!" said the Princess.  They listened; but perceiving no further
noise, they both concluded it the effect of pent-up vapours.  And the Princess, preceding Theodore
softly, carried him to her father's armoury, where, equipping him with a complete suit, he
was conducted by Matilda to the postern-gate.

"Avoid the town," said the Princess, "and all the western side of the castle.  'Tis there the
search must be making by Manfred and the strangers; but hie thee to the opposite quarter. 
Yonder behind that forest to the east is a chain of rocks, hollowed into a labyrinth of caverns
that reach to the sea coast.  There thou mayst lie concealed, till thou canst make signs to
some vessel to put on shore, and take thee off.  Go! heaven be thy guide!--and sometimes in
thy prayers remember--Matilda!"

Theodore flung himself at her feet, and seizing her lily hand, which with struggles she suffered
him to kiss, he vowed on the earliest opportunity to get himself knighted, and fervently entreated
her permission to swear himself eternally her knight. Ere the Princess could reply, a clap
of thunder was suddenly heard that shook the battlements.  Theodore, regardless of the tempest,
would have urged his suit:  but the Princess, dismayed, retreated hastily into the castle,
and commanded the youth to be gone with an air that would not be disobeyed.  He sighed, and
retired, but with eyes fixed on the gate, until Matilda, closing it, put an end to an interview,
in which the hearts of both had drunk so deeply of a passion, which both now tasted for the
first time.

Theodore went pensively to the convent, to acquaint his father with his deliverance.  There
he learned the absence of Jerome, and the pursuit that was making after the Lady Isabella,
with some particulars of whose story he now first became acquainted.  The generous gallantry
of his nature prompted him to wish to assist her; but the Monks could lend him no lights to
guess at the route she had taken.  He was not tempted to wander far in search of her, for the
idea of Matilda had imprinted itself so strongly on his heart, that he could not bear to absent
himself at much distance from her abode.  The tenderness Jerome had expressed for him concurred
to confirm this reluctance; and he even persuaded himself that filial affection was the chief
cause of his hovering between the castle and monastery.

Until Jerome should return at night, Theodore at length determined to repair to the forest
that Matilda had pointed out to him. Arriving there, he sought the gloomiest shades, as best
suited to the pleasing melancholy that reigned in his mind.  In this mood he roved insensibly
to the caves which had formerly served as a retreat to hermits, and were now reported round
the country to be haunted by evil spirits.  He recollected to have heard this tradition; and
being of a brave and adventurous disposition, he willingly indulged his curiosity in exploring
the secret recesses of this labyrinth.  He had not penetrated far before he thought he heard
the steps of some person who seemed to retreat before him.

Theodore, though firmly grounded in all our holy faith enjoins to be believed, had no apprehension
that good men were abandoned without cause to the malice of the powers of darkness.  He thought
the place more likely to be infested by robbers than by those infernal agents who are reported
to molest and bewilder travellers. He had long burned with impatience to approve his valour.
Drawing his sabre, he marched sedately onwards, still directing his steps as the imperfect
rustling sound before him led the way.  The armour he wore was a like indication to the person
who avoided him. Theodore, now convinced that he was not mistaken, redoubled his pace, and
evidently gained on the person that fled, whose haste increasing, Theodore came up just as
a woman fell breathless before him.  He hasted to raise her, but her terror was so great that
he apprehended she would faint in his arms.  He used every gentle word to dispel her alarms,
and assured her that far from injuring, he would defend her at the peril of his life.  The
Lady recovering her spirits from his courteous demeanour, and gazing on her protector, said -

"Sure, I have heard that voice before!"

"Not to my knowledge," replied Theodore; "unless, as I conjecture, thou art the Lady Isabella."

"Merciful heaven!" cried she.  "Thou art not sent in quest of me, art thou?"  And saying those
words, she threw herself at his feet, and besought him not to deliver her up to Manfred.

"To Manfred!" cried Theodore--"no, Lady; I have once already delivered thee from his tyranny,
and it shall fare hard with me now, but I will place thee out of the reach of his daring."

"Is it possible," said she, "that thou shouldst be the generous unknown whom I met last night
in the vault of the castle?  Sure thou art not a mortal, but my guardian angel.  On my knees,
let me thank--"

"Hold! gentle Princess," said Theodore, "nor demean thyself before a poor and friendless young
man.  If heaven has selected me for thy deliverer, it will accomplish its work, and strengthen
my arm in thy cause.  But come, Lady, we are too near the mouth of the cavern; let us seek
its inmost recesses.  I can have no tranquillity till I have placed thee beyond the reach of
danger."

"Alas! what mean you, sir?" said she.  "Though all your actions are noble, though your sentiments
speak the purity of your soul, is it fitting that I should accompany you alone into these perplexed
retreats?  Should we be found together, what would a censorious world think of my conduct?"

"I respect your virtuous delicacy," said Theodore; "nor do you harbour a suspicion that wounds
my honour.  I meant to conduct you into the most private cavity of these rocks, and then at
the hazard of my life to guard their entrance against every living thing. Besides, Lady," continued
he, drawing a deep sigh, "beauteous and all perfect as your form is, and though my wishes are
not guiltless of aspiring, know, my soul is dedicated to another; and although--" A sudden
noise prevented Theodore from proceeding.  They soon distinguished these sounds -

"Isabella! what, ho! Isabella!"  The trembling Princess relapsed into her former agony of fear.
Theodore endeavoured to encourage her, but in vain.  He assured her he would die rather than
suffer her to return under Manfred's power; and begging her to remain concealed, he went forth
to prevent the person in search of her from approaching.

At the mouth of the cavern he found an armed Knight, discoursing with a peasant, who assured
him he had seen a lady enter the passes of the rock.  The Knight was preparing to seek her,
when Theodore, placing himself in his way, with his sword drawn, sternly forbad him at his
peril to advance.

"And who art thou, who darest to cross my way?" said the Knight, haughtily.

"One who does not dare more than he will perform," said Theodore.

"I seek the Lady Isabella," said the Knight, "and understand she has taken refuge among these
rocks.  Impede me not, or thou wilt repent having provoked my resentment."

"Thy purpose is as odious as thy resentment is contemptible," said Theodore.  "Return whence
thou camest, or we shall soon know whose resentment is most terrible."

The stranger, who was the principal Knight that had arrived from the Marquis of Vicenza, had
galloped from Manfred as he was busied in getting information of the Princess, and giving various
orders to prevent her falling into the power of the three Knights.  Their chief had suspected
Manfred of being privy to the Princess's absconding, and this insult from a man, who he concluded
was stationed by that Prince to secrete her, confirming his suspicions, he made no reply, but
discharging a blow with his sabre at Theodore, would soon have removed all obstruction, if
Theodore, who took him for one of Manfred's captains, and who had no sooner given the provocation
than prepared to support it, had not received the stroke on his shield.  The valour that had
so long been smothered in his breast broke forth at once; he rushed impetuously on the Knight,
whose pride and wrath were not less powerful incentives to hardy deeds.  The combat was furious,
but not long.  Theodore wounded the Knight in three several places, and at last disarmed him
as he fainted by the loss of blood.

The peasant, who had fled on the first onset, had given the alarm to some of Manfred's domestics,
who, by his orders, were dispersed through the forest in pursuit of Isabella.  They came up
as the Knight fell, whom they soon discovered to be the noble stranger. Theodore, notwithstanding
his hatred to Manfred, could not behold the victory he had gained without emotions of pity
and generosity. But he was more touched when he learned the quality of his adversary, and was
informed that he was no retainer, but an enemy, of Manfred.  He assisted the servants of the
latter in disarming the Knight, and in endeavouring to stanch the blood that flowed from his
wounds.  The Knight recovering his speech, said, in a faint and faltering voice -

"Generous foe, we have both been in an error.  I took thee for an instrument of the tyrant;
I perceive thou hast made the like mistake.  It is too late for excuses.  I faint.  If Isabella
is at hand--call her--I have important secrets to--"

"He is dying!" said one of the attendants; "has nobody a crucifix about them?  Andrea, do thou
pray over him."

"Fetch some water," said Theodore, "and pour it down his throat, while I hasten to the Princess."

Saying this, he flew to Isabella, and in few words told her modestly that he had been so unfortunate
by mistake as to wound a gentleman from her father's court, who wished, ere he died, to impart
something of consequence to her.

The Princess, who had been transported at hearing the voice of Theodore, as he called to her
to come forth, was astonished at what she heard.  Suffering herself to be conducted by Theodore,
the new proof of whose valour recalled her dispersed spirits, she came where the bleeding Knight
lay speechless on the ground.  But her fears returned when she beheld the domestics of Manfred.
She would again have fled if Theodore had not made her observe that they were unarmed, and
had not threatened them with instant death if they should dare to seize the Princess.

The stranger, opening his eyes, and beholding a woman, said, "Art thou--pray tell me truly--art
thou Isabella of Vicenza?"

"I am," said she:  "good heaven restore thee!"

 "Then thou--then thou"--said the Knight, struggling for utterance-
-"seest--thy father.  Give me one--"

"Oh! amazement! horror! what do I hear! what do I see!" cried Isabella.  "My father!  You my
father!  How came you here, Sir? For heaven's sake, speak!  Oh! run for help, or he will expire!"

"'Tis most true," said the wounded Knight, exerting all his force; "I am Frederic thy father.
Yes, I came to deliver thee.  It will not be.  Give me a parting kiss, and take--"

"Sir," said Theodore, "do not exhaust yourself; suffer us to convey you to the castle."

"To the castle!" said Isabella.  "Is there no help nearer than the castle?  Would you expose
my father to the tyrant?  If he goes thither, I dare not accompany him; and yet, can I leave him!"

"My child," said Frederic, "it matters not for me whither I am carried.  A few minutes will
place me beyond danger; but while I have eyes to dote on thee, forsake me not, dear Isabella!
This brave Knight--I know not who he is--will protect thy innocence. Sir, you will not abandon
my child, will you?"

Theodore, shedding tears over his victim, and vowing to guard the Princess at the expense of
his life, persuaded Frederic to suffer himself to be conducted to the castle.  They placed
him on a horse belonging to one of the domestics, after binding up his wounds as well as they
were able.  Theodore marched by his side; and the afflicted Isabella, who could not bear to
quit him, followed mournfully behind.

CHAPTER IV.

The sorrowful troop no sooner arrived at the castle, than they were met by Hippolita and Matilda,
whom Isabella had sent one of the domestics before to advertise of their approach.  The ladies
causing Frederic to be conveyed into the nearest chamber, retired, while the surgeons examined
his wounds.  Matilda blushed at seeing Theodore and Isabella together; but endeavoured to conceal
it by embracing the latter, and condoling with her on her father's mischance.  The surgeons
soon came to acquaint Hippolita that none of the Marquis's wounds were dangerous; and that
he was desirous of seeing his daughter and the Princesses.

Theodore, under pretence of expressing his joy at being freed from his apprehensions of the
combat being fatal to Frederic, could not resist the impulse of following Matilda.  Her eyes
were so often cast down on meeting his, that Isabella, who regarded Theodore as attentively
as he gazed on Matilda, soon divined who the object was that he had told her in the cave engaged
his affections.  While this mute scene passed, Hippolita demanded of Frederic the cause of
his having taken that mysterious course for reclaiming his daughter; and threw in various apologies
to excuse her Lord for the match contracted between their children.

