Itobad accepted of the Challenge with all the Assurance of Success imaginable. He did not doubt,
but being properly accoutred with his Helmet, his Cuirass, and his Bracelets, he should be
able to hue down an Antagonist, in his Mantle and Cap, and nothing to skreen him from his Resentment,
but a single Sabre. Zadig drew his Sword, and saluted the Queen with it, who view'd him with
Transport mix'd with Fear. Itobad drew his, but paid his Compliments to Nobody. He approach'd
Zadig, as one, whom he imagin'd incapable of making any considerable Resistance. He concluded,
'twas in his Power to cut Zadig into Atoms. Zadig, however, knew how to parry the Blow, by
dexterously receiving it upon his Fort (as the Swords-men call it) by which Means Itobad's
Sword was snapt in two. With that Zadig in an Instant clos'd his Adversary, and by his superior
Strength, as well as Skill, laid him sprawling on his Back. Then holding the Point of his Sword
to the opening of his Cuirass, Submit to be stripp'd of your borrow'd Plumes, or you are a
dead Man this Moment. Itobad, always surpriz'd, that any Disappointment should attend a Man
of such exalted Merit as himself, very tamely permitted Zadig to disrobe him by Degrees of
his pompous Helmet, his superb Cuirass, his rich Bracelets, his brilliant Cuisses, or Armour
for his Thighs, and other Martial Accoutrements. When Zadig had equipp'd himself Cap-a-pee,
in his now recover'd Armour, he flew to Astarte, and threw himself prostrate at her Feet. Cador
prov'd, without any great Difficulty, that the White Armour was Zadig's Property. He was thereupon
acknowledg'd King of Babylon, by the unanimous Content of the Whole Court; but more particularly
with the Approbation of Astarte, who after such a long Series of Misfortunes, now tasted the
Sweets of seeing her darling Zadig thought worthy, in the Opinion of the whole World, to be
the Partner of her royal Bed. Itobad withdrew, and contented himself with being call'd my Lord
within the narrow Compass of his own Domesticks. Zadig, in short, was elected King, and was
as happy as any Mortal could be.

Now he began to reflect on what the Angel Jesrad had said to him: Nay, he reflected so far
back as the Story of the Arabian Atom of Dust metamorphosed into a Diamond. The Queen and He
ador'd the Divine Providence. Zadig permitted Missouf, the Fair Coquet, to make her Conquests
where she could. He sent Couriers to bring the Free-booter Arbogad to Court, and gave him an
Honourable Military Post in his Army, with a farther Promise of Promotion to the highest Dignity;
but upon this express Condition, that he would act for the future as a Soldier of Honour; but
assur'd him at the same Time, that he'd make a publick Example of him, if he follow'd his Profession
of Free-booting for the future.

Setoc was sent for from the lonely Desarts of Arabia, together with the fair Almonza, his new
Bride, to preside over the commercial Affairs of Babylon. Cador was advanc'd to a Post near
himself, and was his Favourite Minister at Court, as the just Reward of his past Services.
He was, in short, the King's real Friend; and Zadig was the only Monarch in the Universe that
could boast of such an Attendant. The Dwarf, tho' dumb, was not wholly forgotten. The Fisherman
was put into the Possession of a very handsome House; and Orcan was sentenc'd, not only to
pay him a very considerable Sum for the Injustice done him in detaining his Wife; but to resign
her likewise to the proper Owner: The Fisherman, however, grown wise by Experience, soften'd
the Rigour of the Sentence, and took the Money only in full of all Accounts.

