In short, in the whole field of the South Seas, there is not one to blame another.  Half blood
and whole, pious and debauched, intelligent and dull, all men believe in ghosts, all men combine
with their recent Christianity fear of and a lingering faith in the old island deities.  So,
in Europe, the gods of Olympus slowly dwindled into village bogies; so to-day, the theological
Highlander sneaks from under the eye of the Free Church divine to lay an offering by a sacred well.

I try to deal with the whole matter here because of a particular quality in Paumotuan superstitions.
It is true I heard them told by a man with a genius for such narrations.  Close about our evening
lamp, within sound of the island surf, we hung on his words, thrilling.  The reader, in far
other scenes, must listen close for the faint echo.

This bundle of weird stories sprang from the burial and the woman's selfish conjuration.  I
was dissatisfied with what I heard, harped upon questions, and struck at last this vein of
metal.  It is from sundown to about four in the morning that the kinsfolk camp upon the grave;
and these are the hours of the spirits' wanderings.  At any time of the night--it may be earlier,
it may be later--a sound is to be heard below, which is the noise of his liberation; at four
sharp, another and a louder marks the instant of the re- imprisonment; between-whiles, he goes
his malignant rounds.  'Did you ever see an evil spirit?' was once asked of a Paumotuan. 'Once.'
'Under what form?'  'It was in the form of a crane.'  'And how did you know that crane to be
a spirit?' was asked.  'I will tell you,' he answered; and this was the purport of his inconclusive
narrative.  His father had been dead nearly a fortnight; others had wearied of the watch; and
as the sun was setting, he found himself by the grave alone.  It was not yet dark, rather the
hour of the afterglow, when he was aware of a snow-white crane upon the coral mound; presently
more cranes came, some white, some black; then the cranes vanished, and he saw in their place
a white cat, to which there was silently joined a great company of cats of every hue conceivable;
then these also disappeared, and he was left astonished.

This was an anodyne appearance.  Take instead the experience of Rua-a-mariterangi on the isle
of Katiu.  He had a need for some pandanus, and crossed the isle to the sea-beach, where it
chiefly flourishes.  The day was still, and Rua was surprised to hear a crashing sound among
the thickets, and then the fall of a considerable tree.  Here must be some one building a canoe;
and he entered the margin of the wood to find and pass the time of day with this chance neighbour.
The crashing sounded more at hand; and then he was aware of something drawing swiftly near
among the tree- tops.  It swung by its heels downward, like an ape, so that its hands were
free for murder; it depended safely by the slightest twigs; the speed of its coming was incredible;
and soon Rua recognised it for a corpse, horrible with age, its bowels hanging as it came.
Prayer was the weapon of Christian in the Valley of the Shadow, and it is to prayer that Rua-a-mariterangi
attributes his escape.  No merely human expedition had availed.

This demon was plainly from the grave; yet you will observe he was abroad by day.  And inconsistent
as it may seem with the hours of the night watch and the many references to the rising of the
morning star, it is no singular exception.  I could never find a case of another who had seen
this ghost, diurnal and arboreal in its habits; but others have heard the fall of the tree,
which seems the signal of its coming.  Mr. Donat was once pearling on the uninhabited isle
of Haraiki.  It was a day without a breath of wind, such as alternate in the archipelago with
days of contumelious breezes.  The divers were in the midst of the lagoon upon their employment;
the cook, a boy of ten, was over his pots in the camp.  Thus were all souls accounted for except
a single native who accompanied Donat into the wood in quest of sea-fowls' eggs. In a moment,
out of the stillness, came the sound of the fall of a great tree.  Donat would have passed
on to find the cause.  'No,' cried his companion, 'that was no tree.  It was something NOT
RIGHT.  Let us go back to camp.'  Next Sunday the divers were turned on, all that part of the
isle was thoroughly examined, and sure enough no tree had fallen.  A little later Mr. Donat
saw one of his divers flee from a similar sound, in similar unaffected panic, on the same isle.
But neither would explain, and it was not till afterwards, when he met with Rua, that he learned
the occasion of their terrors.

But whether by day or night, the purpose of the dead in these abhorred activities is still
the same.  In Samoa, my informant had no idea of the food of the bush spirits; no such ambiguity
would exist in the mind of a Paumotuan.  In that hungry archipelago, living and dead must alike
toil for nutriment; and the race having been cannibal in the past, the spirits are so still.
When the living ate the dead, horrified nocturnal imagination drew the shocking inference that
the dead might eat the living.  Doubtless they slay men, doubtless even mutilate them, in mere
malice. Marquesan spirits sometimes tear out the eyes of travellers; but even that may be more
practical than appears, for the eye is a cannibal dainty.  And certainly the root-idea of the
dead, at least in the far eastern islands, is to prowl for food.  It was as a dainty morsel
for a meal that the woman denounced Donat at the funeral.  There are spirits besides who prey
in particular not on the bodies but on the souls of the dead.  The point is clearly made in
a Tahitian story.  A child fell sick, grew swiftly worse, and at last showed signs of death.
The mother hastened to the house of a sorcerer, who lived hard by.  'You are yet in time,'
said he; 'a spirit has just run past my door carrying the soul of your child wrapped in the
leaf of a purao; but I have a spirit stronger and swifter who will run him down ere he has
time to eat it.'  Wrapped in a leaf:  like other things edible and corruptible.

Or take an experience of Mr. Donat's on the island of Anaa.  It was a night of a high wind,
with violent squalls; his child was very sick, and the father, though he had gone to bed, lay
wakeful, hearkening to the gale.  All at once a fowl was violently dashed on the house wall.
Supposing he had forgot to put it in shelter with the rest, Donat arose, found the bird (a
cock) lying on the verandah, and put it in the hen-house, the door of which he securely fastened.
Fifteen minutes later the business was repeated, only this time, as it was being dashed against
the wall, the bird crew.  Again Donat replaced it, examining the hen-house thoroughly and finding
it quite perfect; as he was so engaged the wind puffed out his light, and he must grope back
to the door a good deal shaken.  Yet a third time the bird was dashed upon the wall; a third
time Donat set it, now near dead, beside its mates; and he was scarce returned before there
came a rush, like that of a furious strong man, against the door, and a whistle as loud as
that of a railway engine rang about the house.  The sceptical reader may here detect the finger
of the tempest; but the women gave up all for lost and clustered on the beds lamenting.  Nothing
followed, and I must suppose the gale somewhat abated, for presently after a chief came visiting.
He was a bold man to be abroad so late, but doubtless carried a bright lantern.  And he was
certainly a man of counsel, for as soon as he heard the details of these disturbances he was
in a position to explain their nature.  'Your child,' said he, 'must certainly die.  This is
the evil spirit of our island who lies in wait to eat the spirits of the newly dead.'  And
then he went on to expatiate on the strangeness of the spirit's conduct. He was not usually,
he explained, so open of assault, but sat silent on the house-top waiting, in the guise of
a bird, while within the people tended the dying and bewailed the dead, and had no thought
of peril.  But when the day came and the doors were opened, and men began to go abroad, blood-stains
on the wall betrayed the tragedy.

This is the quality I admire in Paumotuan legend.  In Tahiti the spirit-eater is said to assume
a vesture which has much more of pomp, but how much less of horror.  It has been seen by all
sorts and conditions, native and foreign; only the last insist it is a meteor.  My authority
was not so sure.  He was riding with his wife about two in the morning; both were near asleep,
and the horses not much better.  It was a brilliant and still night, and the road wound over
a mountain, near by a deserted marae (old Tahitian temple).  All at once the appearance passed
above them:  a form of light; the head round and greenish; the body long, red, and with a focus
of yet redder brilliancy about the midst.  A buzzing hoot accompanied its passage; it flew
direct out of one marae, and direct for another down the mountain side.  And this, as my informant
argued, is suggestive.  For why should a mere meteor frequent the altars of abominable gods?
The horses, I should say, were equally dismayed with their riders.  Now I am not dismayed at
all--not even agreeably.  Give me rather the bird upon the house- top and the morning blood-gouts
on the wall.

But the dead are not exclusive in their diet.  They carry with them to the grave, in particular,
the Polynesian taste for fish, and enter at times with the living into a partnership in fishery.
Rua- a-mariterangi is again my authority; I feel it diminishes the credit of the fact, but
how it builds up the image of this inveterate ghost-seer!  He belongs to the miserably poor
island of Taenga, yet his father's house was always well supplied.  As Rua grew up he was called
at last to go a-fishing with this fortunate parent.  They rowed the lagoon at dusk, to an unlikely
place, and the lay down in the stern, and the father began vainly to cast his line over the
bows.  It is to be supposed that Rua slept; and when he awoke there was the figure of another
beside his father, and his father was pulling in the fish hand over hand.  'Who is that man,
father?' Rua asked.  'It is none of your business,' said the father; and Rua supposed the stranger
had swum off to them from shore.  Night after night they fared into the lagoon, often to the
most unlikely places; night after night the stranger would suddenly be seen on board, and as
suddenly be missed; and morning after morning the canoe returned laden with fish.  'My father
is a very lucky man,' thought Rua.  At last, one fine day, there came first one boat party
and then another, who must be entertained; father and son put off later than usual into the
lagoon; and before the canoe was landed it was four o'clock, and the morning star was close
on the horizon.  Then the stranger appeared seized with some distress; turned about, showing
for the first time his face, which was that of one long dead, with shining eyes; stared into
the east, set the tips of his fingers to his mouth like one a-cold, uttered a strange, shuddering
sound between a whistle and a moan--a thing to freeze the blood; and, the day-star just rising
from the sea, he suddenly was not.  Then Rua understood why his father prospered, why his fishes
rotted early in the day, and why some were always carried to the cemetery and laid upon the
graves.  My informant is a man not certainly averse to superstition, but he keeps his head,
and takes a certain superior interest, which I may be allowed to call scientific.  The last
point reminding him of some parallel practice in Tahiti, he asked Rua if the fish were left,
or carried home again after a formal dedication.  It appears old Mariterangi practised both
methods; sometimes treating his shadowy partner to a mere oblation, sometimes honestly leaving
his fish to rot upon the grave.

It is plain we have in Europe stories of a similar complexion; and the Polynesian varua ino
or aitu o le vao is clearly the near kinsman of the Transylvanian vampire.  Here is a tale
in which the kinship appears broadly marked.  On the atoll of Penrhyn, then still partly savage,
a certain chief was long the salutary terror of the natives.  He died, he was buried; and his
late neighbours had scarce tasted the delights of licence ere his ghost appeared about the
village.  Fear seized upon all; a council was held of the chief men and sorcerers; and with
the approval of the Rarotongan missionary, who was as frightened as the rest, and in the presence
of several whites--my friend Mr. Ben Hird being one--the grave was opened, deepened until water
came, and the body re-interred face down.  The still recent staking of suicides in England
and the decapitation of vampires in the east of Europe form close parallels.

So in Samoa only the spirits of the unburied awake fear.  During the late war many fell in
the bush; their bodies, sometimes headless, were brought back by native pastors and interred;
but this (I know not why) was insufficient, and the spirit still lingered on the theatre of
death.  When peace returned a singular scene was enacted in many places, and chiefly round
the high gorges of Lotoanuu, where the struggle was long centred and the loss had been severe.
Kinswomen of the dead came carrying a mat or sheet and guided by survivors of the fight.  The
place of death was earnestly sought out; the sheet was spread upon the ground; and the women,
moved with pious anxiety, sat about and watched it.  If any living thing alighted it was twice
brushed away; upon the third coming it was known to be the spirit of the dead, was folded in,
carried home and buried beside the body; and the aitu rested.  The rite was practised beyond
doubt in simple piety; the repose of the soul was its object:  its motive, reverent affection.
The present king disowns indeed all knowledge of a dangerous aitu; he declares the souls of
the unburied were only wanderers in limbo, lacking an entrance to the proper country of the
dead, unhappy, nowise hurtful.  And this severely classic opinion doubtless represents the
views of the enlightened.  But the flight of my Lafaele marks the grosser terrors of the ignorant.

This belief in the exorcising efficacy of funeral rites perhaps explains a fact, otherwise
amazing, that no Polynesian seems at all to share our European horror of human bones and mummies.
Of the first they made their cherished ornaments; they preserved them in houses or in mortuary
caves; and the watchers of royal sepulchres dwelt with their children among the bones of generations.
The mummy, even in the making, was as little feared.  In the Marquesas, on the extreme coast,
it was made by the household with continual unction and exposure to the sun; in the Carolines,
upon the farthest west, it is still cured in the smoke of the family hearth. Head-hunting,
besides, still lives around my doorstep in Samoa. And not ten years ago, in the Gilberts, the
widow must disinter, cleanse, polish, and thenceforth carry about her, by day and night, the
head of her dead husband.  In all these cases we may suppose the process, whether of cleansing
or drying, to have fully exorcised the aitu.

But the Paumotuan belief is more obscure.  Here the man is duly buried, and he has to be watched.
He is duly watched, and the spirit goes abroad in spite of watches.  Indeed, it is not the
purpose of the vigils to prevent these wanderings; only to mollify by polite attention the
inveterate malignity of the dead.  Neglect (it is supposed) may irritate and thus invite his
visits, and the aged and weakly sometimes balance risks and stay at home.  Observe, it is the
dead man's kindred and next friends who thus deprecate his fury with nocturnal watchings. 
Even the placatory vigil is held perilous, except in company, and a boy was pointed out to
me in Rotoava, because he had watched alone by his own father.  Not the ties of the dead, nor
yet their proved character, affect the issue.  A late Resident, who died in Fakarava of sunstroke,
was beloved in life and is still remembered with affection; none the less his spirit went about
the island clothed with terrors, and the neighbourhood of Government House was still avoided
after dark.  We may sum up the cheerful doctrine thus:  All men become vampires, and the vampire
spares none.  And here we come face to face with a tempting inconsistency.  For the whistling
spirits are notoriously clannish; I understood them to wait upon and to enlighten kinsfolk
only, and that the medium was always of the race of the communicating spirit.  Here, then,
we have the bonds of the family, on the one hand, severed at the hour of death; on the other,
helpfully persisting.

The child's soul in the Tahitian tale was wrapped in leaves.  It is the spirits of the newly
dead that are the dainty.  When they are slain, the house is stained with blood.  Rua's dead
fisherman was decomposed; so--and horribly--was his arboreal demon.  The spirit, then, is a
thing material; and it is by the material ensigns of corruption that he is distinguished from
the living man.  This opinion is widespread, adds a gross terror to the more ugly Polynesian
tales, and sometimes defaces the more engaging with a painful and incongruous touch.  I will
give two examples sufficiently wide apart, one from Tahiti, one from Samoa.

And first from Tahiti.  A man went to visit the husband of his sister, then some time dead.
In her life the sister had been dainty in the island fashion, and went always adorned with
a coronet of flowers.  In the midst of the night the brother awoke and was aware of a heavenly
fragrance going to and fro in the dark house.  The lamp I must suppose to have burned out;
no Tahitian would have lain down without one lighted.  A while he lay wondering and delighted;
then called upon the rest.  'Do none of you smell flowers?' he asked.  'O,' said his brother-in-law,
'we are used to that here.'  The next morning these two men went walking, and the widower confessed
that his dead wife came about the house continually, and that he had even seen her.  She was
shaped and dressed and crowned with flowers as in her lifetime; only she moved a few inches
above the earth with a very easy progress, and flitted dryshod above the surface of the river.
And now comes my point: It was always in a back view that she appeared; and these brothers-
in-law, debating the affair, agreed that this was to conceal the inroads of corruption.

Now for the Samoan story.  I owe it to the kindness of Dr. F. Otto Sierich, whose collection
of folk-tales I expect with a high degree of interest.  A man in Manu'a was married to two
wives and had no issue.  He went to Savaii, married there a third, and was more fortunate.
When his wife was near her time he remembered he was in a strange island, like a poor man;
and when his child was born he must be shamed for lack of gifts.  It was in vain his wife dissuaded
him.  He returned to his father in Manu'a seeking help; and with what he could get he set off
in the night to re-embark. Now his wives heard of his coming; they were incensed that he did
not stay to visit them; and on the beach, by his canoe, intercepted and slew him.  Now the
third wife lay asleep in Savaii;--her babe was born and slept by her side; and she was awakened
by the spirit of her husband.  'Get up,' he said, 'my father is sick in Manu'a and we must
go to visit him.'  'It is well,' said she; 'take you the child, while I carry its mats.'  'I
cannot carry the child,' said the spirit; 'I am too cold from the sea.'  When they were got
on board the canoe the wife smelt carrion.  'How is this?' she said.  'What have you in the
canoe that I should smell carrion?' 'It is nothing in the canoe,' said the spirit.  'It is
the land- wind blowing down the mountains, where some beast lies dead.'  It appears it was
still night when they reached Manu'a--the swiftest passage on record--and as they entered the
reef the bale-fires burned in the village.  Again she asked him to carry the child; but now
he need no more dissemble.  'I cannot carry your child,' said he, 'for I am dead, and the fires
you see are burning for my funeral.'

The curious may learn in Dr. Sierich's book the unexpected sequel of the tale.  Here is enough
for my purpose.  Though the man was but new dead, the ghost was already putrefied, as though
putrefaction were the mark and of the essence of a spirit.  The vigil on the Paumotuan grave
does not extend beyond two weeks, and they told me this period was thought to coincide with
that of the resolution of the body.  The ghost always marked with decay--the danger seemingly
ending with the process of dissolution--here is tempting matter for the theorist.  But it will
not do.  The lady of the flowers had been long dead, and her spirit was still supposed to bear
the brand of perishability.  The Resident had been more than a fortnight buried, and his vampire
was still supposed to go the rounds.

Of the lost state of the dead, from the lurid Mangaian legend, in which infernal deities hocus
and destroy the souls of all, to the various submarine and aerial limbos where the dead feast,
float idle, or resume the occupations of their life on earth, it would be wearisome to tell.
One story I give, for it is singular in itself, is well-known in Tahiti, and has this of interest,
that it is post- Christian, dating indeed from but a few years back.  A princess of the reigning
house died; was transported to the neighbouring isle of Raiatea; fell there under the empire
of a spirit who condemned her to climb coco-palms all day and bring him the nuts; was found
after some time in this miserable servitude by a second spirit, one of her own house; and by
him, upon her lamentations, reconveyed to Tahiti, where she found her body still waked, but
already swollen with the approaches of corruption.  It is a lively point in the tale that,
on the sight of this dishonoured tabernacle, the princess prayed she might continue to be numbered
with the dead. But it seems it was too late, her spirit was replaced by the least dignified
of entrances, and her startled family beheld the body move.  The seemingly purgatorial labours,
the helpful kindred spirit, and the horror of the princess at the sight of her tainted body,
are all points to be remarked.

The truth is, the tales are not necessarily consistent in themselves; and they are further
darkened for the stranger by an ambiguity of language.  Ghosts, vampires, spirits, and gods
are all confounded.  And yet I seem to perceive that (with exceptions) those whom we would
count gods were less maleficent.  Permanent spirits haunt and do murder in corners of Samoa;
but those legitimate gods of Upolu and Savaii, whose wars and cricketings of late convulsed
society, I did not gather to be dreaded, or not with a like fear.  The spirit of Aana that
ate souls is certainly a fearsome inmate; but the high gods, even of the archipelago, seem
helpful.  Mahinui--from whom our convict-catechist had been named-- the spirit of the sea,
like a Proteus endowed with endless avatars, came to the assistance of the shipwrecked and
carried them ashore in the guise of a ray fish.  The same divinity bore priests from isle to
isle about the archipelago, and by his aid, within the century, persons have been seen to fly.
The tutelar deity of each isle is likewise helpful, and by a particular form of wedge-shaped
cloud on the horizon announces the coming of a ship.

To one who conceives of these atolls, so narrow, so barren, so beset with sea, here would seem
a superfluity of ghostly denizens. And yet there are more.  In the various brackish pools and
ponds, beautiful women with long red hair are seen to rise and bathe; only (timid as mice)
on the first sound of feet upon the coral they dive again for ever.  They are known to be healthy
and harmless living people, dwellers of an underworld; and the same fancy is current in Tahiti,
where also they have the hair red.  Tetea is the Tahitian name; the Paumotuan, Mokurea.

PART III:  THE GILBERTS

CHAPTER I--BUTARITARI

At Honolulu we had said farewell to the Casco and to Captain Otis, and our next adventure was
made in changed conditions.  Passage was taken for myself, my wife, Mr. Osbourne, and my China
boy, Ah Fu, on a pigmy trading schooner, the Equator, Captain Dennis Reid; and on a certain
bright June day in 1889, adorned in the Hawaiian fashion with the garlands of departure, we
drew out of port and bore with a fair wind for Micronesia.

The whole extent of the South Seas is a desert of ships; more especially that part where we
were now to sail.  No post runs in these islands; communication is by accident; where you may
have designed to go is one thing, where you shall be able to arrive another.  It was my hope,
for instance, to have reached the Carolines, and returned to the light of day by way of Manila
and the China ports; and it was in Samoa that we were destined to re- appear and be once more
refreshed with the sight of mountains. Since the sunset faded from the peaks of Oahu six months
had intervened, and we had seen no spot of earth so high as an ordinary cottage.

The two chief places of our stay, Butaritari and Apemama, lie near the line; the latter within
thirty miles.  Both enjoy a superb ocean climate, days of blinding sun and bracing wind, nights
of a heavenly brightness.  Both are somewhat wider than Fakarava, measuring perhaps (at the
widest) a quarter of a mile from beach to beach.  In both, a coarse kind of taro thrives; its
culture is a chief business of the natives, and the consequent mounds and ditches make miniature
scenery and amuse the eye.  In all else they show the customary features of an atoll:  the
low horizon, the expanse of the lagoon, the sedge-like rim of palm-tops, the sameness and smallness
of the land, the hugely superior size and interest of sea and sky.  Life on such islands is
in many points like life on shipboard.  The atoll, like the ship, is soon taken for granted;
and the islanders, like the ship's crew, become soon the centre of attention.  The isles are
populous, independent, seats of kinglets, recently civilised, little visited.  In the last
decade many changes have crept in; women no longer go unclothed till marriage; the widow no
longer sleeps at night and goes abroad by day with the skull of her dead husband; and, fire-arms
being introduced, the spear and the shark-tooth sword are sold for curiosities.  Ten years
ago all these things and practices were to be seen in use; yet ten years more, and the old
society will have entirely vanished.  We came in a happy moment to see its institutions still
erect and (in Apemama) scarce decayed.

Populous and independent--warrens of men, ruled over with some rustic pomp--such was the first
and still the recurring impression of these tiny lands.  As we stood across the lagoon for
the town of Butaritari, a stretch of the low shore was seen to be crowded with the brown roofs
of houses; those of the palace and king's summer parlour (which are of corrugated iron) glittered
near one end conspicuously bright; the royal colours flew hard by on a tall flagstaff; in front,
on an artificial islet, the gaol played the part of a martello.  Even upon this first and distant
view, the place had scarce the air of what it truly was, a village; rather of that which it
was also, a petty metropolis, a city rustic and yet royal.

The lagoon is shoal.  The tide being out, we waded for some quarter of a mile in tepid shallows,
and stepped ashore at last into a flagrant stagnancy of sun and heat.  The lee side of a line
island after noon is indeed a breathless place; on the ocean beach the trade will be still
blowing, boisterous and cool; out in the lagoon it will be blowing also, speeding the canoes;
but the screen of bush completely intercepts it from the shore, and sleep and silence and companies
of mosquitoes brood upon the towns.

We may thus be said to have taken Butaritari by surprise.  A few inhabitants were still abroad
in the north end, at which we landed. As we advanced, we were soon done with encounter, and
seemed to explore a city of the dead.  Only, between the posts of open houses, we could see
the townsfolk stretched in the siesta, sometimes a family together veiled in a mosquito-net,
sometimes a single sleeper on a platform like a corpse on a bier.

The houses were of all dimensions, from those of toys to those of churches.  Some might hold
a battalion, some were so minute they could scarce receive a pair of lovers; only in the playroom,
when the toys are mingled, do we meet such incongruities of scale.  Many were open sheds; some
took the form of roofed stages; others were walled and the walls pierced with little windows.
A few were perched on piles in the lagoon; the rest stood at random on a green, through which
the roadway made a ribbon of sand, or along the embankments of a sheet of water like a shallow
dock.  One and all were the creatures of a single tree; palm-tree wood and palm- tree leaf
their materials; no nail had been driven, no hammer sounded, in their building, and they were
held together by lashings of palm-tree sinnet.

In the midst of the thoroughfare, the church stands like an island, a lofty and dim house with
rows of windows; a rich tracery of framing sustains the roof; and through the door at either
end the street shows in a vista.  The proportions of the place, in such surroundings, and built
of such materials, appeared august; and we threaded the nave with a sentiment befitting visitors
in a cathedral.  Benches run along either side.  In the midst, on a crazy dais, two chairs
stand ready for the king and queen when they shall choose to worship; over their heads a hoop,
apparently from a hogshead, depends by a strip of red cotton; and the hoop (which hangs askew)
is dressed with streamers of the same material, red and white.

This was our first advertisement of the royal dignity, and presently we stood before its seat
and centre.  The palace is built of imported wood upon a European plan; the roof of corrugated
iron, the yard enclosed with walls, the gate surmounted by a sort of lych-house.  It cannot
be called spacious; a labourer in the States is sometimes more commodiously lodged; but when
we had the chance to see it within, we found it was enriched (beyond all island expectation)
with coloured advertisements and cuts from the illustrated papers.  Even before the gate some
of the treasures of the crown stand public:  a bell of a good magnitude, two pieces of cannon,
and a single shell.  The bell cannot be rung nor the guns fired; they are curiosities, proofs
of wealth, a part of the parade of the royalty, and stand to be admired like statues in a square.
A straight gut of water like a canal runs almost to the palace door; the containing quay-walls
excellently built of coral; over against the mouth, by what seems an effect of landscape art,
the martello-like islet of the gaol breaks the lagoon.  Vassal chiefs with tribute, neighbour
monarchs come a-roving, might here sail in, view with surprise these extensive public works,
and be awed by these mouths of silent cannon.  It was impossible to see the place and not to
fancy it designed for pageantry.  But the elaborate theatre then stood empty; the royal house
deserted, its doors and windows gaping; the whole quarter of the town immersed in silence.
On the opposite bank of the canal, on a roofed stage, an ancient gentleman slept publicly,
sole visible inhabitant; and beyond on the lagoon a canoe spread a striped lateen, the sole
thing moving.

The canal is formed on the south by a pier or causeway with a parapet.  At the far end the
parapet stops, and the quay expands into an oblong peninsula in the lagoon, the breathing-place
and summer parlour of the king.  The midst is occupied by an open house or permanent marquee--called
here a maniapa, or, as the word is now pronounced, a maniap'--at the lowest estimation forty
feet by sixty.  The iron roof, lofty but exceedingly low-browed, so that a woman must stoop
to enter, is supported externally on pillars of coral, within by a frame of wood.  The floor
is of broken coral, divided in aisles by the uprights of the frame; the house far enough from
shore to catch the breeze, which enters freely and disperses the mosquitoes; and under the
low eaves the sun is seen to glitter and the waves to dance on the lagoon.

It was now some while since we had met any but slumberers; and when we had wandered down the
pier and stumbled at last into this bright shed, we were surprised to find it occupied by a
society of wakeful people, some twenty souls in all, the court and guardsmen of Butaritari.
The court ladies were busy making mats; the guardsmen yawned and sprawled.  Half a dozen rifles
lay on a rock and a cutlass was leaned against a pillar:  the armoury of these drowsy musketeers.
At the far end, a little closed house of wood displayed some tinsel curtains, and proved, upon
examination, to be a privy on the European model.  In front of this, upon some mats, lolled
Tebureimoa, the king; behind him, on the panels of the house, two crossed rifles represented
fasces.  He wore pyjamas which sorrowfully misbecame his bulk; his nose was hooked and cruel,
his body overcome with sodden corpulence, his eye timorous and dull:  he seemed at once oppressed
with drowsiness and held awake by apprehension:  a pepper rajah muddled with opium, and listening
for the march of a Dutch army, looks perhaps not otherwise.  We were to grow better acquainted,
and first and last I had the same impression; he seemed always drowsy, yet always to hearken
and start; and, whether from remorse or fear, there is no doubt he seeks a refuge in the abuse
of drugs.

The rajah displayed no sign of interest in our coming.  But the queen, who sat beside him in
a purple sacque, was more accessible; and there was present an interpreter so willing that
his volubility became at last the cause of our departure.  He had greeted us upon our entrance:-
'That is the honourable King, and I am his interpreter,' he had said, with more stateliness
than truth.  For he held no appointment in the court, seemed extremely ill- acquainted with
the island language, and was present, like ourselves, upon a visit of civility.  Mr. Williams
was his name: an American darkey, runaway ship's cook, and bar-keeper at The Land we Live in
tavern, Butaritari.  I never knew a man who had more words in his command or less truth to
communicate; neither the gloom of the monarch, nor my own efforts to be distant, could in the
least abash him; and when the scene closed, the darkey was left talking.

The town still slumbered, or had but just begun to turn and stretch itself; it was still plunged
in heat and silence.  So much the more vivid was the impression that we carried away of the
house upon the islet, the Micronesian Saul wakeful amid his guards, and his unmelodious David,
Mr. Williams, chattering through the drowsy hours.

CHAPTER II--THE FOUR BROTHERS

The kingdom of Tebureimoa includes two islands, Great and Little Makin; some two thousand subjects
pay him tribute, and two semi- independent chieftains do him qualified homage.  The importance
of the office is measured by the man; he may be a nobody, he may be absolute; and both extremes
have been exemplified within the memory of residents.

On the death of king Tetimararoa, Tebureimoa's father, Nakaeia, the eldest son, succeeded.
He was a fellow of huge physical strength, masterful, violent, with a certain barbaric thrift
and some intelligence of men and business.  Alone in his islands, it was he who dealt and profited;
he was the planter and the merchant; and his subjects toiled for his behoof in servitude. 
When they wrought long and well their taskmaster declared a holiday, and supplied and shared
a general debauch.  The scale of his providing was at times magnificent; six hundred dollars'
worth of gin and brandy was set forth at once; the narrow land resounded with the noise of
revelry: and it was a common thing to see the subjects (staggering themselves) parade their
drunken sovereign on the fore-hatch of a wrecked vessel, king and commons howling and singing
as they went. At a word from Nakaeia's mouth the revel ended; Makin became once more an isle
of slaves and of teetotalers; and on the morrow all the population must be on the roads or
in the taro-patches toiling under his bloodshot eye.

The fear of Nakaeia filled the land.  No regularity of justice was affected; there was no trial,
there were no officers of the law; it seems there was but one penalty, the capital; and daylight
assault and midnight murder were the forms of process.  The king himself would play the executioner:
and his blows were dealt by stealth, and with the help and countenance of none but his own
wives.  These were his oarswomen; one that caught a crab, he slew incontinently with the tiller;
thus disciplined, they pulled him by night to the scene of his vengeance, which he would then
execute alone and return well-pleased with his connubial crew.  The inmates of the harem held
a station hard for us to conceive.  Beasts of draught, and driven by the fear of death, they
were yet implicitly trusted with their sovereign's life; they were still wives and queens,
and it was supposed that no man should behold their faces.  They killed by the sight like basilisks;
a chance view of one of those boatwomen was a crime to be wiped out with blood.  In the days
of Nakaeia the palace was beset with some tall coco-palms which commanded the enclosure.  It
chanced one evening, while Nakaeia sat below at supper with his wives, that the owner of the
grove was in a tree-top drawing palm-tree wine; it chanced that he looked down, and the king
at the same moment looking up, their eyes encountered. Instant flight preserved the involuntary
criminal.  But during the remainder of that reign he must lurk and be hid by friends in remote
parts of the isle; Nakaeia hunted him without remission, although still in vain; and the palms,
accessories to the fact, were ruthlessly cut down.  Such was the ideal of wifely purity in
an isle where nubile virgins went naked as in paradise.  And yet scandal found its way into
Nakaeia's well-guarded harem.  He was at that time the owner of a schooner, which he used for
a pleasure- house, lodging on board as she lay anchored; and thither one day he summoned a
new wife.  She was one that had been sealed to him; that is to say (I presume), that he was
married to her sister, for the husband of an elder sister has the call of the cadets.  She
would be arrayed for the occasion; she would come scented, garlanded, decked with fine mats
and family jewels, for marriage, as her friends supposed; for death, as she well knew.  'Tell
me the man's name, and I will spare you,' said Nakaeia.  But the girl was staunch; she held
her peace, saved her lover and the queens strangled her between the mats.

Nakaeia was feared; it does not appear that he was hated.  Deeds that smell to us of murder
wore to his subjects the reverend face of justice; his orgies made him popular; natives to
this day recall with respect the firmness of his government; and even the whites, whom he long
opposed and kept at arm's-length, give him the name (in the canonical South Sea phrase) of
'a perfect gentleman when sober.'

When he came to lie, without issue, on the bed of death, he summoned his next brother, Nanteitei,
made him a discourse on royal policy, and warned him he was too weak to reign.  The warning
was taken to heart, and for some while the government moved on the model of Nakaeia's.  Nanteitei
dispensed with guards, and walked abroad alone with a revolver in a leather mail-bag.  To conceal
his weakness he affected a rude silence; you might talk to him all day; advice, reproof, appeal,
and menace alike remained unanswered.

The number of his wives was seventeen, many of them heiresses; for the royal house is poor,
and marriage was in these days a chief means of buttressing the throne.  Nakaeia kept his harem
busy for himself; Nanteitei hired it out to others.  In his days, for instance, Messrs.  Wightman
built a pier with a verandah at the north end of the town.  The masonry was the work of the
seventeen queens, who toiled and waded there like fisher lasses; but the man who was to do
the roofing durst not begin till they had finished, lest by chance he should look down and
see them.

It was perhaps the last appearance of the harem gang.  For some time already Hawaiian missionaries
had been seated at Butaritari-- Maka and Kanoa, two brave childlike men.  Nakaeia would none
of their doctrine; he was perhaps jealous of their presence; being human, he had some affection
for their persons.  In the house, before the eyes of Kanoa, he slew with his own hand three
sailors of Oahu, crouching on their backs to knife them, and menacing the missionary if he
interfered; yet he not only spared him at the moment, but recalled him afterwards (when he
had fled) with some expressions of respect.  Nanteitei, the weaker man, fell more completely
under the spell.  Maka, a light-hearted, lovable, yet in his own trade very rigorous man, gained
and improved an influence on the king which soon grew paramount.  Nanteitei, with the royal
house, was publicly converted; and, with a severity which liberal missionaries disavow, the
harem was at once reduced.  It was a compendious act.  The throne was thus impoverished, its
influence shaken, the queen's relatives mortified, and sixteen chief women (some of great possessions)
cast in a body on the market.  I have been shipmates with a Hawaiian sailor who was successively
married to two of these impromptu widows, and successively divorced by both for misconduct.
That two great and rich ladies (for both of these were rich) should have married 'a man from
another island' marks the dissolution of society.  The laws besides were wholly remodelled,
not always for the better.  I love Maka as a man; as a legislator he has two defects:  weak
in the punishment of crime, stern to repress innocent pleasures.

War and revolution are the common successors of reform; yet Nanteitei died (of an overdose
of chloroform), in quiet possession of the throne, and it was in the reign of the third brother,
Nabakatokia, a man brave in body and feeble of character, that the storm burst.  The rule of
the high chiefs and notables seems to have always underlain and perhaps alternated with monarchy.
The Old Men (as they were called) have a right to sit with the king in the Speak House and
debate:  and the king's chief superiority is a form of closure--'The Speaking is over.'  After
the long monocracy of Nakaeia and the changes of Nanteitei, the Old Men were doubtless grown
impatient of obscurity, and they were beyond question jealous of the influence of Maka.  Calumny,
or rather caricature, was called in use; a spoken cartoon ran round society; Maka was reported
to have said in church that the king was the first man in the island and himself the second;
and, stung by the supposed affront, the chiefs broke into rebellion and armed gatherings. 
In the space of one forenoon the throne of Nakaeia was humbled in the dust.  The king sat in
the maniap' before the palace gate expecting his recruits; Maka by his side, both anxious men;
and meanwhile, in the door of a house at the north entry of the town, a chief had taken post
and diverted the succours as they came.  They came singly or in groups, each with his gun or
pistol slung about his neck.  'Where are you going?' asked the chief.  'The king called us,'
they would reply.  'Here is your place.  Sit down,' returned the chief.  With incredible disloyalty,
all obeyed; and sufficient force being thus got together from both sides, Nabakatokia was summoned
and surrendered.  About this period, in almost every part of the group, the kings were murdered;
and on Tapituea, the skeleton of the last hangs to this day in the chief Speak House of the
isle, a menace to ambition.  Nabakatokia was more fortunate; his life and the royal style were
spared to him, but he was stripped of power.  The Old Men enjoyed a festival of public speaking;
the laws were continually changed, never enforced; the commons had an opportunity to regret
the merits of Nakaeia; and the king, denied the resource of rich marriages and the service
of a troop of wives, fell not only in disconsideration but in debt.

He died some months before my arrival on the islands, and no one regretted him; rather all
looked hopefully to his successor.  This was by repute the hero of the family.  Alone of the
four brothers, he had issue, a grown son, Natiata, and a daughter three years old; it was to
him, in the hour of the revolution, that Nabakatokia turned too late for help; and in earlier
days he had been the right hand of the vigorous Nakaeia.  Nontemat', Mr. Corpse, was his appalling
nickname, and he had earned it well.  Again and again, at the command of Nakaeia, he had surrounded
houses in the dead of night, cut down the mosquito bars and butchered families.  Here was the
hand of iron; here was Nakaeia redux.  He came, summoned from the tributary rule of Little
Makin:  he was installed, he proved a puppet and a trembler, the unwieldy shuttlecock of orators;
and the reader has seen the remains of him in his summer parlour under the name of Tebureimoa.

The change in the man's character was much commented on in the island, and variously explained
by opium and Christianity.  To my eyes, there seemed no change at all, rather an extreme consistency.
Mr. Corpse was afraid of his brother:  King Tebureimoa is afraid of the Old Men.  Terror of
the first nerved him for deeds of desperation; fear of the second disables him for the least
act of government.  He played his part of bravo in the past, following the line of least resistance,
butchering others in his own defence: to-day, grown elderly and heavy, a convert, a reader
of the Bible, perhaps a penitent, conscious at least of accumulated hatreds, and his memory
charged with images of violence and blood, he capitulates to the Old Men, fuddles himself with
opium, and sits among his guards in dreadful expectation.  The same cowardice that put into
his hand the knife of the assassin deprives him of the sceptre of a king.

A tale that I was told, a trifling incident that fell in my observation, depicts him in his
two capacities.  A chief in Little Makin asked, in an hour of lightness, 'Who is Kaeia?'  A
bird carried the saying; and Nakaeia placed the matter in the hands of a committee of three.
Mr. Corpse was chairman; the second commissioner died before my arrival; the third was yet
alive and green, and presented so venerable an appearance that we gave him the name of Abou
ben Adhem.  Mr. Corpse was troubled with a scruple; the man from Little Makin was his adopted
brother; in such a case it was not very delicate to appear at all, to strike the blow (which
it seems was otherwise expected of him) would be worse than awkward.  'I will strike the blow,'
said the venerable Abou; and Mr. Corpse (surely with a sigh) accepted the compromise.  The
quarry was decoyed into the bush; he was set to carrying a log; and while his arms were raised
Abou ripped up his belly at a blow. Justice being thus done, the commission, in a childish
horror, turned to flee.  But their victim recalled them to his side.  'You need not run away
now,' he said.  'You have done this thing to me. Stay.'  He was some twenty minutes dying,
and his murderers sat with him the while:  a scene for Shakespeare.  All the stages of a violent
death, the blood, the failing voice, the decomposing features, the changed hue, are thus present
in the memory of Mr. Corpse; and since he studied them in the brother he betrayed, he has some
reason to reflect on the possibilities of treachery.  I was never more sure of anything than
the tragic quality of the king's thoughts; and yet I had but the one sight of him at unawares.
I had once an errand for his ear.  It was once more the hour of the siesta; but there were
loiterers abroad, and these directed us to a closed house on the bank of the canal where Tebureimoa
lay unguarded.  We entered without ceremony, being in some haste.  He lay on the floor upon
a bed of mats, reading in his Gilbert Island Bible with compunction.  On our sudden entrance
the unwieldy man reared himself half-sitting so that the Bible rolled on the floor, stared
on us a moment with blank eyes, and, having recognised his visitors, sank again upon the mats.
So Eglon looked on Ehud.

The justice of facts is strange, and strangely just; Nakaeia, the author of these deeds, died
at peace discoursing on the craft of kings; his tool suffers daily death for his enforced complicity.
Not the nature, but the congruity of men's deeds and circumstances damn and save them; and
Tebureimoa from the first has been incongruously placed.  At home, in a quiet bystreet of a
village, the man had been a worthy carpenter, and, even bedevilled as he is, he shows some
private virtues.  He has no lands, only the use of such as are impignorate for fines; he cannot
enrich himself in the old way by marriages; thrift is the chief pillar of his future, and he
knows and uses it.  Eleven foreign traders pay him a patent of a hundred dollars, some two
thousand subjects pay capitation at the rate of a dollar for a man, half a dollar for a woman,
and a shilling for a child:  allowing for the exchange, perhaps a total of three hundred pounds
a year.  He had been some nine months on the throne:  had bought his wife a silk dress and
hat, figure unknown, and himself a uniform at three hundred dollars; had sent his brother's
photograph to be enlarged in San Francisco at two hundred and fifty dollars; had greatly reduced
that brother's legacy of debt and had still sovereigns in his pocket.  An affectionate brother,
a good economist; he was besides a handy carpenter, and cobbled occasionally on the woodwork
of the palace. It is not wonderful that Mr. Corpse has virtues; that Tebureimoa should have
a diversion filled me with surprise.

CHAPTER III--AROUND OUR HOUSE

When we left the palace we were still but seafarers ashore; and within the hour we had installed
our goods in one of the six foreign houses of Butaritari, namely, that usually occupied by
Maka, the Hawaiian missionary.  Two San Francisco firms are here established, Messrs. Crawford
and Messrs. Wightman Brothers; the first hard by the palace of the mid town, the second at
the north entry; each with a store and bar-room.  Our house was in the Wightman compound, betwixt
the store and bar, within a fenced enclosure.  Across the road a few native houses nestled
in the margin of the bush, and the green wall of palms rose solid, shutting out the breeze.
A little sandy cove of the lagoon ran in behind, sheltered by a verandah pier, the labour of
queens' hands. Here, when the tide was high, sailed boats lay to be loaded; when the tide was
low, the boats took ground some half a mile away, and an endless series of natives descended
the pier stair, tailed across the sand in strings and clusters, waded to the waist with the
bags of copra, and loitered backward to renew their charge. The mystery of the copra trade
tormented me, as I sat and watched the profits drip on the stair and the sands.

In front, from shortly after four in the morning until nine at night, the folk of the town
streamed by us intermittingly along the road:  families going up the island to make copra on
their lands; women bound for the bush to gather flowers against the evening toilet; and, twice
a day, the toddy-cutters, each with his knife and shell.  In the first grey of the morning,
and again late in the afternoon, these would straggle past about their tree-top business, strike
off here and there into the bush, and vanish from the face of the earth.  At about the same
hour, if the tide be low in the lagoon, you are likely to be bound yourself across the island
for a bath, and may enter close at their heels alleys of the palm wood. Right in front, although
the sun is not yet risen, the east is already lighted with preparatory fires, and the huge
accumulations of the trade-wind cloud glow with and heliograph the coming day. The breeze is
in your face; overhead in the tops of the palms, its playthings, it maintains a lively bustle;
look where you will, above or below, there is no human presence, only the earth and shaken
forest.  And right overhead the song of an invisible singer breaks from the thick leaves; from
farther on a second tree-top answers; and beyond again, in the bosom of the woods, a still
more distant minstrel perches and sways and sings.  So, all round the isle, the toddy-cutters
sit on high, and are rocked by the trade, and have a view far to seaward, where they keep watch
for sails, and like huge birds utter their songs in the morning.  They sing with a certain
lustiness and Bacchic glee; the volume of sound and the articulate melody fall unexpected from
the tree-top, whence we anticipate the chattering of fowls.  And yet in a sense these songs
also are but chatter; the words are ancient, obsolete, and sacred; few comprehend them, perhaps
no one perfectly; but it was understood the cutters 'prayed to have good toddy, and sang of
their old wars.'  The prayer is at least answered; and when the foaming shell is brought to
your door, you have a beverage well 'worthy of a grace.'  All forenoon you may return and taste;
it only sparkles, and sharpens, and grows to be a new drink, not less delicious; but with the
progress of the day the fermentation quickens and grows acid; in twelve hours it will be yeast
for bread, in two days more a devilish intoxicant, the counsellor of crime.

The men are of a marked Arabian cast of features, often bearded and mustached, often gaily
dressed, some with bracelets and anklets, all stalking hidalgo-like, and accepting salutations
with a haughty lip.  The hair (with the dandies of either sex) is worn turban-wise in a frizzled
bush; and like the daggers of the Japanese a pointed stick (used for a comb) is thrust gallantly
among the curls.  The women from this bush of hair look forth enticingly:  the race cannot
be compared with the Tahitian for female beauty; I doubt even if the average be high; but some
of the prettiest girls, and one of the handsomest women I ever saw, were Gilbertines. Butaritari,
being the commercial centre of the group, is Europeanised; the coloured sacque or the white
shift are common wear, the latter for the evening; the trade hat, loaded with flowers, fruit,
and ribbons, is unfortunately not unknown; and the characteristic female dress of the Gilberts
no longer universal. The ridi is its name:  a cutty petticoat or fringe of the smoked fibre
of cocoa-nut leaf, not unlike tarry string:  the lower edge not reaching the mid-thigh, the
upper adjusted so low upon the haunches that it seems to cling by accident.  A sneeze, you
think, and the lady must surely be left destitute.  'The perilous, hairbreadth ridi' was our
word for it; and in the conflict that rages over women's dress it has the misfortune to please
neither side, the prudish condemning it as insufficient, the more frivolous finding it unlovely
in itself.  Yet if a pretty Gilbertine would look her best, that must be her costume.  In that
and naked otherwise, she moves with an incomparable liberty and grace and life, that marks
the poetry of Micronesia.  Bundle her in a gown, the charm is fled, and she wriggles like an
Englishwoman.

Towards dusk the passers-by became more gorgeous.  The men broke out in all the colours of
the rainbow--or at least of the trade- room,--and both men and women began to be adorned and
scented with new flowers.  A small white blossom is the favourite, sometimes sown singly in
a woman's hair like little stars, now composed in a thick wreath.  With the night, the crowd
sometimes thickened in the road, and the padding and brushing of bare feet became continuous;
the promenades mostly grave, the silence only interrupted by some giggling and scampering of
girls; even the children quiet.  At nine, bed-time struck on a bell from the cathedral, and
the life of the town ceased.  At four the next morning the signal is repeated in the darkness,
and the innocent prisoners set free; but for seven hours all must lie--I was about to say within
doors, of a place where doors, and even walls, are an exception--housed, at least, under their
airy roofs and clustered in the tents of the mosquito- nets.  Suppose a necessary errand to
occur, suppose it imperative to send abroad, the messenger must then go openly, advertising
himself to the police with a huge brand of cocoa-nut, which flares from house to house like
a moving bonfire.  Only the police themselves go darkling, and grope in the night for misdemeanants.
I used to hate their treacherous presence; their captain in particular, a crafty old man in
white, lurked nightly about my premises till I could have found it in my heart to beat him.
But the rogue was privileged.

Not one of the eleven resident traders came to town, no captain cast anchor in the lagoon,
but we saw him ere the hour was out. This was owing to our position between the store and the
bar--the Sans Souci, as the last was called.  Mr. Rick was not only Messrs. Wightman's manager,
but consular agent for the States; Mrs. Rick was the only white woman on the island, and one
of the only two in the archipelago; their house besides, with its cool verandahs, its bookshelves,
its comfortable furniture, could not be rivalled nearer than Jaluit or Honolulu.  Every one
called in consequence, save such as might be prosecuting a South Sea quarrel, hingeing on the
price of copra and the odd cent, or perhaps a difference about poultry.  Even these, if they
did not appear upon the north, would be presently visible to the southward, the Sans Souci
drawing them as with cords.  In an island with a total population of twelve white persons,
one of the two drinking-shops might seem superfluous:  but every bullet has its billet, and
the double accommodation of Butaritari is found in practice highly convenient by the captains
and the crews of ships:  The Land we Live in being tacitly resigned to the forecastle, the
Sans Souci tacitly reserved for the afterguard.  So aristocratic were my habits, so commanding
was my fear of Mr. Williams, that I have never visited the first; but in the other, which was
the club or rather the casino of the island, I regularly passed my evenings.  It was small,
but neatly fitted, and at night (when the lamp was lit) sparkled with glass and glowed with
coloured pictures like a theatre at Christmas.  The pictures were advertisements, the glass
coarse enough, the carpentry amateur; but the effect, in that incongruous isle, was of unbridled
luxury and inestimable expense.  Here songs were sung, tales told, tricks performed, games
played.  The Ricks, ourselves, Norwegian Tom the bar-keeper, a captain or two from the ships,
and perhaps three or four traders come down the island in their boats or by the road on foot,
made up the usual company.  The traders, all bred to the sea, take a humorous pride in their
new business; 'South Sea Merchants' is the title they prefer.  'We are all sailors here'--'Merchants,
if you please'--'South Sea Merchants,'-- was a piece of conversation endlessly repeated, that
never seemed to lose in savour.  We found them at all times simple, genial, gay, gallant, and
obliging; and, across some interval of time, recall with pleasure the traders of Butaritari.
There was one black sheep indeed.  I tell of him here where he lived, against my rule; for
in this case I have no measure to preserve, and the man is typical of a class of ruffians that
once disgraced the whole field of the South Seas, and still linger in the rarely visited isles
of Micronesia.  He had the name on the beach of 'a perfect gentleman when sober,' but I never
saw him otherwise than drunk.  The few shocking and savage traits of the Micronesian he has
singled out with the skill of a collector, and planted in the soil of his original baseness.
He has been accused and acquitted of a treacherous murder; and has since boastfully owned it,
which inclines me to suppose him innocent.  His daughter is defaced by his erroneous cruelty,
for it was his wife he had intended to disfigure, and in the darkness of the night and the
frenzy of coco- brandy, fastened on the wrong victim.  The wife has since fled and harbours
in the bush with natives; and the husband still demands from deaf ears her forcible restoration.
The best of his business is to make natives drink, and then advance the money for the fine
upon a lucrative mortgage.  'Respect for whites' is the man's word: 'What is the matter with
this island is the want of respect for whites.'  On his way to Butaritari, while I was there,
he spied his wife in the bush with certain natives and made a dash to capture her; whereupon
one of her companions drew a knife and the husband retreated:  'Do you call that proper respect
for whites?' he cried. At an early stage of the acquaintance we proved our respect for his
kind of white by forbidding him our enclosure under pain of death. Thenceforth he lingered
often in the neighbourhood with I knew not what sense of envy or design of mischief; his white,
handsome face (which I beheld with loathing) looked in upon us at all hours across the fence;
and once, from a safe distance, he avenged himself by shouting a recondite island insult, to
us quite inoffensive, on his English lips incredibly incongruous.

Our enclosure, round which this composite of degradations wandered, was of some extent.  In
one corner was a trellis with a long table of rough boards.  Here the Fourth of July feast
had been held not long before with memorable consequences, yet to be set forth; here we took
our meals; here entertained to a dinner the king and notables of Makin.  In the midst was the
house, with a verandah front and back, and three is rooms within.  In the verandah we slung
our man-of-war hammocks, worked there by day, and slept at night.  Within were beds, chairs,
a round table, a fine hanging lamp, and portraits of the royal family of Hawaii.  Queen Victoria
proves nothing; Kalakaua and Mrs. Bishop are diagnostic; and the truth is we were the stealthy
tenants of the parsonage.  On the day of our arrival Maka was away; faithless trustees unlocked
his doors; and the dear rigorous man, the sworn foe of liquor and tobacco, returned to find
his verandah littered with cigarettes and his parlour horrible with bottles.  He made but one
condition--on the round table, which he used in the celebration of the sacraments, he begged
us to refrain from setting liquor; in all else he bowed to the accomplished fact, refused rent,
retired across the way into a native house, and, plying in his boat, beat the remotest quarters
of the isle for provender.  He found us pigs- -I could not fancy where--no other pigs were
visible; he brought us fowls and taro; when we gave our feast to the monarch and gentry, it
was he who supplied the wherewithal, he who superintended the cooking, he who asked grace at
table, and when the king's health was proposed, he also started the cheering with an English
hip-hip- hip.  There was never a more fortunate conception; the heart of the fatted king exulted
in his bosom at the sound.

Take him for all in all, I have never known a more engaging creature than this parson of Butaritari:
his mirth, his kindness, his noble, friendly feelings, brimmed from the man in speech and gesture.
He loved to exaggerate, to act and overact the momentary part, to exercise his lungs and muscles,
and to speak and laugh with his whole body.  He had the morning cheerfulness of birds and healthy
children; and his humour was infectious.  We were next neighbours and met daily, yet our salutations
lasted minutes at a stretch--shaking hands, slapping shoulders, capering like a pair of Merry-Andrews,
laughing to split our sides upon some pleasantry that would scarce raise a titter in an infant-school.
It might be five in the morning, the toddy-cutters just gone by, the road empty, the shade
of the island lying far on the lagoon:  and the ebullition cheered me for the day.

Yet I always suspected Maka of a secret melancholy--these jubilant extremes could scarce be
constantly maintained.  He was besides long, and lean, and lined, and corded, and a trifle
grizzled; and his Sabbath countenance was even saturnine.  On that day we made a procession
to the church, or (as I must always call it) the cathedral:  Maka (a blot on the hot landscape)
in tall hat, black frock-coat, black trousers; under his arm the hymn-book and the Bible; in
his face, a reverent gravity:- beside him Mary his wife, a quiet, wise, and handsome elderly
lady, seriously attired:- myself following with singular and moving thoughts.  Long before,
to the sound of bells and streams and birds, through a green Lothian glen, I had accompanied
Sunday by Sunday a minister in whose house I lodged; and the likeness, and the difference,
and the series of years and deaths, profoundly touched me.  In the great, dusky, palm-tree
cathedral the congregation rarely numbered thirty: the men on one side, the women on the other,
myself posted (for a privilege) amongst the women, and the small missionary contingent gathered
close around the platform, we were lost in that round vault.  The lessons were read antiphonally,
the flock was catechised, a blind youth repeated weekly a long string of psalms, hymns were
sung--I never heard worse singing,--and the sermon followed.  To say I understood nothing were
untrue; there were points that I learned to expect with certainty; the name of Honolulu, that
of Kalakaua, the word Cap'n-man-o'-wa', the word ship, and a description of a storm at sea,
infallibly occurred; and I was not seldom rewarded with the name of my own Sovereign in the
bargain.  The rest was but sound to the ears, silence for the mind: a plain expanse of tedium,
rendered unbearable by heat, a hard chair, and the sight through the wide doors of the more
happy heathen on the green.  Sleep breathed on my joints and eyelids, sleep hummed in my ears;
it reigned in the dim cathedral.  The congregation stirred and stretched; they moaned, they
groaned aloud; they yawned upon a singing note, as you may sometimes hear a dog when he has
reached the tragic bitterest of boredom.  In vain the preacher thumped the table; in vain he
singled and addressed by name particular hearers.  I was myself perhaps a more effective excitant;
and at least to one old gentleman the spectacle of my successful struggles against sleep--and
I hope they were successful--cheered the flight of time.  He, when he was not catching flies
or playing tricks upon his neighbours, gloated with a fixed, truculent eye upon the stages
of my agony; and once, when the service was drawing towards a close, he winked at me across
the church.

I write of the service with a smile; yet I was always there--always with respect for Maka,
always with admiration for his deep seriousness, his burning energy, the fire of his roused
eye, the sincere and various accents of his voice.  To see him weekly flogging a dead horse
and blowing a cold fire was a lesson in fortitude and constancy.  It may be a question whether
if the mission were fully supported, and he was set free from business avocations, more might
not result; I think otherwise myself; I think not neglect but rigour has reduced his flock,
that rigour which has once provoked a revolution, and which to-day, in a man so lively and
engaging, amazes the beholder.  No song, no dance, no tobacco, no liquor, no alleviative of
life--only toil and church- going; so says a voice from his face; and the face is the face
of the Polynesian Esau, but the voice is the voice of a Jacob from a different world.  And
a Polynesian at the best makes a singular missionary in the Gilberts, coming from a country
recklessly unchaste to one conspicuously strict; from a race hag-ridden with bogies to one
comparatively bold against the terrors of the dark. The thought was stamped one morning in
my mind, when I chanced to be abroad by moonlight, and saw all the town lightless, but the
lamp faithfully burning by the missionary's bed.  It requires no law, no fire, and no scouting
police, to withhold Maka and his countrymen from wandering in the night unlighted.

CHAPTER IV--A TALE OF A TAPU

On the morrow of our arrival (Sunday, 14th July 1889) our photographers were early stirring.
Once more we traversed a silent town; many were yet abed and asleep; some sat drowsily in their
open houses; there was no sound of intercourse or business.  In that hour before the shadows,
the quarter of the palace and canal seemed like a landing-place in the Arabian Nights or from
the classic poets; here were the fit destination of some 'faery frigot,' here some adventurous
prince might step ashore among new characters and incidents; and the island prison, where it
floated on the luminous face of the lagoon, might have passed for the repository of the Grail.
In such a scene, and at such an hour, the impression received was not so much of foreign travel--rather
of past ages; it seemed not so much degrees of latitude that we had crossed, as centuries of
time that we had re-ascended; leaving, by the same steps, home and to-day.  A few children
followed us, mostly nude, all silent; in the clear, weedy waters of the canal some silent damsels
waded, baring their brown thighs; and to one of the maniap's before the palace gate we were
attracted by a low but stirring hum of speech.

The oval shed was full of men sitting cross-legged.  The king was there in striped pyjamas,
his rear protected by four guards with Winchesters, his air and bearing marked by unwonted
spirit and decision; tumblers and black bottles went the round; and the talk, throughout loud,
was general and animated.  I was inclined at first to view this scene with suspicion.  But
the hour appeared unsuitable for a carouse; drink was besides forbidden equally by the law
of the land and the canons of the church; and while I was yet hesitating, the king's rigorous
attitude disposed of my last doubt.  We had come, thinking to photograph him surrounded by
his guards, and at the first word of the design his piety revolted.  We were reminded of the
day--the Sabbath, in which thou shalt take no photographs--and returned with a flea in our
ear, bearing the rejected camera.

At church, a little later, I was struck to find the throne unoccupied.  So nice a Sabbatarian
might have found the means to be present; perhaps my doubts revived; and before I got home
they were transformed to certainties.  Tom, the bar-keeper of the Sans Souci, was in conversation
with two emissaries from the court.  The 'keen,' they said, wanted 'din,' failing which 'perandi.'
No din, was Tom's reply, and no perandi; but 'pira' if they pleased.  It seems they had no
use for beer, and departed sorrowing.

'Why, what is the meaning of all this?' I asked.  'Is the island on the spree?'

Such was the fact.  On the 4th of July a feast had been made, and the king, at the suggestion
of the whites, had raised the tapu against liquor.  There is a proverb about horses; it scarce
applies to the superior animal, of whom it may be rather said, that any one can start him drinking,
not any twenty can prevail on him to stop. The tapu, raised ten days before, was not yet re-imposed;
for ten days the town had been passing the bottle or lying (as we had seen it the afternoon
before) in hoggish sleep; and the king, moved by the Old Men and his own appetites, continued
to maintain the liberty, to squander his savings on liquor, and to join in and lead the debauch.
The whites were the authors of this crisis; it was upon their own proposal that the freedom
had been granted at the first; and for a while, in the interests of trade, they were doubtless
pleased it should continue.  That pleasure had now sometime ceased; the bout had been prolonged
(it was conceded) unduly; and it now began to be a question how it might conclude. Hence Tom's
refusal.  Yet that refusal was avowedly only for the moment, and it was avowedly unavailing;
the king's foragers, denied by Tom at the Sans Souci, would be supplied at The Land we Live
in by the gobbling Mr. Williams.

The degree of the peril was not easy to measure at the time, and I am inclined to think now
it was easy to exaggerate.  Yet the conduct of drunkards even at home is always matter for
anxiety; and at home our populations are not armed from the highest to the lowest with revolvers
and repeating rifles, neither do we go on a debauch by the whole townful--and I might rather
say, by the whole polity--king, magistrates, police, and army joining in one common scene of
drunkenness.  It must be thought besides that we were here in barbarous islands, rarely visited,
lately and partly civilised. First and last, a really considerable number of whites have perished
in the Gilberts, chiefly through their own misconduct; and the natives have displayed in at
least one instance a disposition to conceal an accident under a butchery, and leave nothing
but dumb bones.  This last was the chief consideration against a sudden closing of the bars;
the bar-keepers stood in the immediate breach and dealt direct with madmen; too surly a refusal
might at any moment precipitate a blow, and the blow might prove the signal for a massacre.

Monday, 15th.--At the same hour we returned to the same muniap'. Kummel (of all drinks) was
served in tumblers; in the midst sat the crown prince, a fatted youth, surrounded by fresh
bottles and busily plying the corkscrew; and king, chief, and commons showed the loose mouth,
the uncertain joints, and the blurred and animated eye of the early drinker.  It was plain
we were impatiently expected; the king retired with alacrity to dress, the guards were despatched
after their uniforms; and we were left to await the issue of these preparations with a shedful
of tipsy natives.  The orgie had proceeded further than on Sunday.  The day promised to be
of great heat; it was already sultry, the courtiers were already fuddled; and still the kummel
continued to go round, and the crown prince to play butler.  Flemish freedom followed upon
Flemish excess; and a funny dog, a handsome fellow, gaily dressed, and with a full turban of
frizzed hair, delighted the company with a humorous courtship of a lady in a manner not to
be described.  It was our diversion, in this time of waiting, to observe the gathering of the
guards.  They have European arms, European uniforms, and (to their sorrow) European shoes.
We saw one warrior (like Mars) in the article of being armed; two men and a stalwart woman
were scarce strong enough to boot him; and after a single appearance on parade the army is
crippled for a week.

At last, the gates under the king's house opened; the army issued, one behind another, with
guns and epaulettes; the colours stooped under the gateway; majesty followed in his uniform
bedizened with gold lace; majesty's wife came next in a hat and feathers, and an ample trained
silk gown; the royal imps succeeded; there stood the pageantry of Makin marshalled on its chosen
theatre.  Dickens might have told how serious they were; how tipsy; how the king melted and
streamed under his cocked hat; how he took station by the larger of his two cannons--austere,
majestic, but not truly vertical; how the troops huddled, and were straightened out, and clubbed
again; how they and their firelocks raked at various inclinations like the masts of ships;
and how an amateur photographer reviewed, arrayed, and adjusted them, to see his dispositions
change before he reached the camera.

The business was funny to see; I do not know that it is graceful to laugh at; and our report
of these transactions was received on our return with the shaking of grave heads.

The day had begun ill; eleven hours divided us from sunset; and at any moment, on the most
trifling chance, the trouble might begin. The Wightman compound was in a military sense untenable,
commanded on three sides by houses and thick bush; the town was computed to contain over a
thousand stand of excellent new arms; and retreat to the ships, in the case of an alert, was
a recourse not to be thought of.  Our talk that morning must have closely reproduced the talk
in English garrisons before the Sepoy mutiny; the sturdy doubt that any mischief was in prospect,
the sure belief that (should any come) there was nothing left but to go down fighting, the
half- amused, half-anxious attitude of mind in which we were awaiting fresh developments.

The kummel soon ran out; we were scarce returned before the king had followed us in quest of
more.  Mr. Corpse was now divested of his more awful attitude, the lawless bulk of him again
encased in striped pyjamas; a guardsman brought up the rear with his rifle at the trail:  and
his majesty was further accompanied by a Rarotongan whalerman and the playful courtier with
the turban of frizzed hair. There was never a more lively deputation.  The whalerman was gapingly,
tearfully tipsy:  the courtier walked on air; the king himself was even sportive.  Seated in
a chair in the Ricks' sitting-room, he bore the brunt of our prayers and menaces unmoved. He
was even rated, plied with historic instances, threatened with the men-of-war, ordered to restore
the tapu on the spot--and nothing in the least affected him.  It should be done to-morrow,
he said; to-day it was beyond his power, to-day he durst not.  'Is that royal?' cried indignant
Mr. Rick.  No, it was not royal; had the king been of a royal character we should ourselves
have held a different language; and royal or not, he had the best of the dispute.  The terms
indeed were hardly equal; for the king was the only man who could restore the tapu, but the
Ricks were not the only people who sold drink.  He had but to hold his ground on the first
question, and they were sure to weaken on the second.  A little struggle they still made for
the fashion's sake; and then one exceedingly tipsy deputation departed, greatly rejoicing,
a case of brandy wheeling beside them in a barrow.  The Rarotongan (whom I had never seen before)
wrung me by the hand like a man bound on a far voyage.  'My dear frien'!' he cried, 'good-bye,
my dear frien'!'--tears of kummel standing in his eyes; the king lurched as he went, the courtier
ambled,--a strange party of intoxicated children to be entrusted with that barrowful of madness.

You could never say the town was quiet; all morning there was a ferment in the air, an aimless
movement and congregation of natives in the street.  But it was not before half-past one that
a sudden hubbub of voices called us from the house, to find the whole white colony already
gathered on the spot as by concerted signal.  The Sans Souci was overrun with rabble, the stair
and verandah thronged.  From all these throats an inarticulate babbling cry went up incessantly;
it sounded like the bleating of young lambs, but angrier.  In the road his royal highness (whom
I had seen so lately in the part of butler) stood crying upon Tom; on the top step, tossed
in the hurly-burly, Tom was shouting to the prince.  Yet a while the pack swayed about the
bar, vociferous.  Then came a brutal impulse; the mob reeled, and returned, and was rejected;
the stair showed a stream of heads; and there shot into view, through the disbanding ranks,
three men violently dragging in their midst a fourth.  By his hair and his hands, his head
forced as low as his knees, his face concealed, he was wrenched from the verandah and whisked
along the road into the village, howling as he disappeared. Had his face been raised, we should
have seen it bloodied, and the blood was not his own.  The courtier with the turban of frizzed
hair had paid the costs of this disturbance with the lower part of one ear.

So the brawl passed with no other casualty than might seem comic to the inhumane.  Yet we looked
round on serious faces and--a fact that spoke volumes--Tom was putting up the shutters on the
bar. Custom might go elsewhere, Mr. Williams might profit as he pleased, but Tom had had enough
of bar-keeping for that day.  Indeed the event had hung on a hair.  A man had sought to draw
a revolver--on what quarrel I could never learn, and perhaps he himself could not have told;
one shot, when the room was so crowded, could scarce have failed to take effect; where many
were armed and all tipsy, it could scarce have failed to draw others; and the woman who spied
the weapon and the man who seized it may very well have saved the white community.

The mob insensibly melted from the scene; and for the rest of the day our neighbourhood was
left in peace and a good deal in solitude.  But the tranquillity was only local; din and perandi
still flowed in other quarters:  and we had one more sight of Gilbert Island violence.  In
the church, where we had wandered photographing, we were startled by a sudden piercing outcry.
The scene, looking forth from the doors of that great hall of shadow, was unforgettable.  The
palms, the quaint and scattered houses, the flag of the island streaming from its tall staff,
glowed with intolerable sunshine.  In the midst two women rolled fighting on the grass.  The
combatants were the more easy to be distinguished, because the one was stripped to the ridi
and the other wore a holoku (sacque) of some lively colour.  The first was uppermost, her teeth
locked in her adversary's face, shaking her like a dog; the other impotently fought and scratched.
So for a moment we saw them wallow and grapple there like vermin; then the mob closed and shut
them in.

It was a serious question that night if we should sleep ashore. But we were travellers, folk
that had come far in quest of the adventurous; on the first sign of an adventure it would have
been a singular inconsistency to have withdrawn; and we sent on board instead for our revolvers.
Mindful of Taahauku, Mr. Rick, Mr. Osbourne, and Mrs. Stevenson held an assault of arms on
the public highway, and fired at bottles to the admiration of the natives. Captain Reid of
the Equator stayed on shore with us to be at hand in case of trouble, and we retired to bed
at the accustomed hour, agreeably excited by the day's events.  The night was exquisite, the
silence enchanting; yet as I lay in my hammock looking on the strong moonshine and the quiescent
palms, one ugly picture haunted me of the two women, the naked and the clad, locked in that
hostile embrace.  The harm done was probably not much, yet I could have looked on death and
massacre with less revolt.  The return to these primeval weapons, the vision of man's beastliness,
of his ferality, shocked in me a deeper sense than that with which we count the cost of battles.
There are elements in our state and history which it is a pleasure to forget, which it is perhaps
the better wisdom not to dwell on.  Crime, pestilence, and death are in the day's work; the
imagination readily accepts them.  It instinctively rejects, on the contrary, whatever shall
call up the image of our race upon its lowest terms, as the partner of beasts, beastly itself,
dwelling pell-mell and hugger-mugger, hairy man with hairy woman, in the caves of old.  And
yet to be just to barbarous islanders we must not forget the slums and dens of our cities;
I must not forget that I have passed dinnerward through Soho, and seen that which cured me
of my dinner.

CHAPTER V--A TALE OF A TAPU--continued

Tuesday, July 16.--It rained in the night, sudden and loud, in Gilbert Island fashion.  Before
the day, the crowing of a cock aroused me and I wandered in the compound and along the street.
The squall was blown by, the moon shone with incomparable lustre, the air lay dead as in a
room, and yet all the isle sounded as under a strong shower, the eaves thickly pattering, the
lofty palms dripping at larger intervals and with a louder note.  In this bold nocturnal light
the interior of the houses lay inscrutable, one lump of blackness, save when the moon glinted
under the roof, and made a belt of silver, and drew the slanting shadows of the pillars on
the floor.  Nowhere in all the town was any lamp or ember; not a creature stirred; I thought
I was alone to be awake; but the police were faithful to their duty; secretly vigilant, keeping
account of time; and a little later, the watchman struck slowly and repeatedly on the cathedral
bell; four o'clock, the warning signal.  It seemed strange that, in a town resigned to drunkenness
and tumult, curfew and reveille should still be sounded and still obeyed.

The day came, and brought little change.  The place still lay silent; the people slept, the
town slept.  Even the few who were awake, mostly women and children, held their peace and kept
within under the strong shadow of the thatch, where you must stop and peer to see them.  Through
the deserted streets, and past the sleeping houses, a deputation took its way at an early hour
to the palace; the king was suddenly awakened, and must listen (probably with a headache) to
unpalatable truths.  Mrs. Rick, being a sufficient mistress of that difficult tongue, was spokeswoman;
she explained to the sick monarch that I was an intimate personal friend of Queen Victoria's;
that immediately on my return I should make her a report upon Butaritari; and that if my house
should have been again invaded by natives, a man-of-war would be despatched to make reprisals.
It was scarce the fact--rather a just and necessary parable of the fact, corrected for latitude;
and it certainly told upon the king.  He was much affected; he had conceived the notion (he
said) that I was a man of some importance, but not dreamed it was as bad as this; and the missionary
house was tapu'd under a fine of fifty dollars.

So much was announced on the return of the deputation; not any more; and I gathered subsequently
that much more had passed.  The protection gained was welcome.  It had been the most annoying
and not the least alarming feature of the day before, that our house was periodically filled
with tipsy natives, twenty or thirty at a time, begging drink, fingering our goods, hard to
be dislodged, awkward to quarrel with.  Queen Victoria's friend (who was soon promoted to be
her son) was free from these intrusions.  Not only my house, but my neighbourhood as well,
was left in peace; even on our walks abroad we were guarded and prepared for; and, like great
persons visiting a hospital, saw only the fair side.  For the matter of a week we were thus
suffered to go out and in and live in a fool's paradise, supposing the king to have kept his
word, the tapu to be revived and the island once more sober.

Tuesday, July 23.--We dined under a bare trellis erected for the Fourth of July; and here we
used to linger by lamplight over coffee and tobacco.  In that climate evening approaches without
sensible chill; the wind dies out before sunset; heaven glows a while and fades, and darkens
into the blueness of the tropical night; swiftly and insensibly the shadows thicken, the stars
multiply their number; you look around you and the day is gone.  It was then that we would
see our Chinaman draw near across the compound in a lurching sphere of light, divided by his
shadows; and with the coming of the lamp the night closed about the table.  The faces of the
company, the spars of the trellis, stood out suddenly bright on a ground of blue and silver,
faintly designed with palm-tops and the peaked roofs of houses.  Here and there the gloss upon
a leaf, or the fracture of a stone, returned an isolated sparkle.  All else had vanished. 
We hung there, illuminated like a galaxy of stars in vacuo; we sat, manifest and blind, amid
the general ambush of the darkness; and the islanders, passing with light footfalls and low
voices in the sand of the road, lingered to observe us, unseen.

On Tuesday the dusk had fallen, the lamp had just been brought, when a missile struck the table
with a rattling smack and rebounded past my ear.  Three inches to one side and this page had
never been written; for the thing travelled like a cannon ball.  It was supposed at the time
to be a nut, though even at the time I thought it seemed a small one and fell strangely.

Wednesday, July 24.--The dusk had fallen once more, and the lamp been just brought out, when
the same business was repeated.  And again the missile whistled past my ear.  One nut I had
been willing to accept; a second, I rejected utterly.  A cocoa-nut does not come slinging along
on a windless evening, making an angle of about fifteen degrees with the horizon; cocoa-nuts
do not fall on successive nights at the same hour and spot; in both cases, besides, a specific
moment seemed to have been chosen, that when the lamp was just carried out, a specific person
threatened, and that the head of the family.  I may have been right or wrong, but I believed
I was the mark of some intimidation; believed the missile was a stone, aimed not to hit, but
to frighten.

No idea makes a man more angry.  I ran into the road, where the natives were as usual promenading
in the dark; Maka joined me with a lantern; and I ran from one to another, glared in quite
innocent faces, put useless questions, and proffered idle threats.  Thence I carried my wrath
(which was worthy the son of any queen in history) to the Ricks.  They heard me with depression,
assured me this trick of throwing a stone into a family dinner was not new; that it meant mischief,
and was of a piece with the alarming disposition of the natives.  And then the truth, so long
concealed from us, came out. The king had broken his promise, he had defied the deputation;
the tapu was still dormant, The Land we Live in still selling drink, and that quarter of the
town disturbed and menaced by perpetual broils.  But there was worse ahead:  a feast was now
preparing for the birthday of the little princess; and the tributary chiefs of Kuma and Little
Makin were expected daily.  Strong in a following of numerous and somewhat savage clansmen,
each of these was believed, like a Douglas of old, to be of doubtful loyalty.  Kuma (a little
pot-bellied fellow) never visited the palace, never entered the town, but sat on the beach
on a mat, his gun across his knees, parading his mistrust and scorn; Karaiti of Makin, although
he was more bold, was not supposed to be more friendly; and not only were these vassals jealous
of the throne, but the followers on either side shared in the animosity.  Brawls had already
taken place; blows had passed which might at any moment be repaid in blood.  Some of the strangers
were already here and already drinking; if the debauch continued after the bulk of them had
come, a collision, perhaps a revolution, was to be expected.

The sale of drink is in this group a measure of the jealousy of traders; one begins, the others
are constrained to follow; and to him who has the most gin, and sells it the most recklessly,
the lion's share of copra is assured.  It is felt by all to be an extreme expedient, neither
safe, decent, nor dignified.  A trader on Tarawa, heated by an eager rivalry, brought many
cases of gin. He told me he sat afterwards day and night in his house till it was finished,
not daring to arrest the sale, not venturing to go forth, the bush all round him filled with
howling drunkards.  At night, above all, when he was afraid to sleep, and heard shots and voices
about him in the darkness, his remorse was black.

'My God!' he reflected, 'if I was to lose my life on such a wretched business!'  Often and
often, in the story of the Gilberts, this scene has been repeated; and the remorseful trader
sat beside his lamp, longing for the day, listening with agony for the sound of murder, registering
resolutions for the future.  For the business is easy to begin, but hazardous to stop.  The
natives are in their way a just and law-abiding people, mindful of their debts, docile to the
voice of their own institutions; when the tapu is re- enforced they will cease drinking; but
the white who seeks to antedate the movement by refusing liquor does so at his peril.

Hence, in some degree, the anxiety and helplessness of Mr. Rick. He and Tom, alarmed by the
rabblement of the Sans Souci, had stopped the sale; they had done so without danger, because
The Land we Live in still continued selling; it was claimed, besides, that they had been the
first to begin.  What step could be taken?  Could Mr. Rick visit Mr. Muller (with whom he was
not on terms) and address him thus:  'I was getting ahead of you, now you are getting ahead
of me, and I ask you to forego your profit.  I got my place closed in safety, thanks to your
continuing; but now I think you have continued long enough.  I begin to be alarmed; and because
I am afraid I ask you to confront a certain danger'?  It was not to be thought of.  Something
else had to be found; and there was one person at one end of the town who was at least not
interested in copra.  There was little else to be said in favour of myself as an ambassador.
I had arrived in the Wightman schooner, I was living in the Wightman compound, I was the daily
associate of the Wightman coterie.  It was egregious enough that I should now intrude unasked
in the private affairs of Crawford's agent, and press upon him the sacrifice of his interests
and the venture of his life.  But bad as I might be, there was none better; since the affair
of the stone I was, besides, sharp-set to be doing, the idea of a delicate interview attracted
me, and I thought it policy to show myself abroad.

The night was very dark.  There was service in the church, and the building glimmered through
all its crevices like a dim Kirk Allowa'.  I saw few other lights, but was indistinctly aware
of many people stirring in the darkness, and a hum and sputter of low talk that sounded stealthy.
I believe (in the old phrase) my beard was sometimes on my shoulder as I went.  Muller's was
but partly lighted, and quite silent, and the gate was fastened.  I could by no means manage
to undo the latch.  No wonder, since I found it afterwards to be four or five feet long--a
fortification in itself. As I still fumbled, a dog came on the inside and sniffed suspiciously
at my hands, so that I was reduced to calling 'House ahoy!'  Mr. Muller came down and put his
chin across the paling in the dark.  'Who is that?' said he, like one who has no mind to welcome
strangers.

'My name is Stevenson,' said I.

'O, Mr. Stevens!  I didn't know you.  Come inside.'  We stepped into the dark store, when I
leaned upon the counter and he against the wall.  All the light came from the sleeping-room,
where I saw his family being put to bed; it struck full in my face, but Mr. Muller stood in
shadow.  No doubt he expected what was Coming, and sought the advantage of position; but for
a man who wished to persuade and had nothing to conceal, mine was the preferable.

'Look here,' I began, 'I hear you are selling to the natives.'

'Others have done that before me,' he returned pointedly.

'No doubt,' said I, 'and I have nothing to do with the past, but the future.  I want you to
promise you will handle these spirits carefully.'

'Now what is your motive in this?' he asked, and then, with a sneer, 'Are you afraid of your life?'

'That is nothing to the purpose,' I replied.  'I know, and you know, these spirits ought not
to be used at all.'

'Tom and Mr. Rick have sold them before.'

'I have nothing to do with Tom and Mr. Rick.  All I know is I have heard them both refuse.'

'No, I suppose you have nothing to do with them.  Then you are just afraid of your life.'

'Come now,' I cried, being perhaps a little stung, 'you know in your heart I am asking a reasonable
thing.  I don't ask you to lose your profit--though I would prefer to see no spirits brought
here, as you would--'

'I don't say I wouldn't.  I didn't begin this,' he interjected.

'No, I don't suppose you did,' said I.  'And I don't ask you to lose; I ask you to give me
your word, man to man, that you will make no native drunk.'

Up to now Mr. Muller had maintained an attitude very trying to my temper; but he had maintained
it with difficulty, his sentiment being all upon my side; and here he changed ground for the
worse. 'It isn't me that sells,' said he.

'No, it's that nigger,' I agreed.  'But he's yours to buy and sell; you have your hand on the
nape of his neck; and I ask you--I have my wife here--to use the authority you have.'

He hastily returned to his old ward.  'I don't deny I could if I wanted,' said he.  'But there's
no danger, the natives are all quiet.  You're just afraid of your life.'

I do not like to be called a coward, even by implication; and here I lost my temper and propounded
an untimely ultimatum.  'You had better put it plain,' I cried.  'Do you mean to refuse me
what I ask?'

'I don't want either to refuse it or grant it,' he replied.

'You'll find you have to do the one thing or the other, and right now!' I cried, and then,
striking into a happier vein, 'Come,' said I, 'you're a better sort than that.  I see what's
wrong with you-- you think I came from the opposite camp.  I see the sort of man you are, and
you know that what I ask is right.'

Again he changed ground.  'If the natives get any drink, it isn't safe to stop them,' he objected.

'I'll be answerable for the bar,' I said.  'We are three men and four revolvers; we'll come
at a word, and hold the place against the village.'

'You don't know what you're talking about; it's too dangerous!' he cried.

'Look here,' said I, 'I don't mind much about losing that life you talk so much of; but I mean
to lose it the way I want to, and that is, putting a stop to all this beastliness.'

He talked a while about his duty to the firm; I minded not at all, I was secure of victory.
He was but waiting to capitulate, and looked about for any potent to relieve the strain.  In
the gush of light from the bedroom door I spied a cigar-holder on the desk. 'That is well coloured,'
said I.

'Will you take a cigar?' said he.

I took it and held it up unlighted.  'Now,' said I, 'you promise me.'

'I promise you you won't have any trouble from natives that have drunk at my place,' he replied.

'That is all I ask,' said I, and showed it was not by immediately offering to try his stock.

So far as it was anyway critical our interview here ended.  Mr. Muller had thenceforth ceased
to regard me as an emissary from his rivals, dropped his defensive attitude, and spoke as he
believed. I could make out that he would already, had he dared, have stopped the sale himself.
Not quite daring, it may be imagined how he resented the idea of interference from those who
had (by his own statement) first led him on, then deserted him in the breach, and now (sitting
themselves in safety) egged him on to a new peril, which was all gain to them, all loss to
him!  I asked him what he thought of the danger from the feast.

'I think worse of it than any of you,' he answered.  'They were shooting around here last night,
and I heard the balls too.  I said to myself, "That's bad."  What gets me is why you should
be making this row up at your end.  I should be the first to go.'

It was a thoughtless wonder.  The consolation of being second is not great; the fact, not the
order of going--there was our concern.

Scott talks moderately of looking forward to a time of fighting 'with a feeling that resembled
pleasure.'  The resemblance seems rather an identity.  In modern life, contact is ended; man
grows impatient of endless manoeuvres; and to approach the fact, to find ourselves where we
can push an advantage home, and stand a fair risk, and see at last what we are made of, stirs
the blood.  It was so at least with all my family, who bubbled with delight at the approach
of trouble; and we sat deep into the night like a pack of schoolboys, preparing the revolvers
and arranging plans against the morrow.  It promised certainly to be a busy and eventful day.
The Old Men were to be summoned to confront me on the question of the tapu; Muller might call
us at any moment to garrison his bar; and suppose Muller to fail, we decided in a family council
to take that matter into our own hands, The Land we Live in at the pistol's mouth, and with
the polysyllabic Williams, dance to a new tune.  As I recall our humour I think it would have
gone hard with the mulatto.

Wednesday, July 24.--It was as well, and yet it was disappointing that these thunder-clouds
rolled off in silence.  Whether the Old Men recoiled from an interview with Queen Victoria's
son, whether Muller had secretly intervened, or whether the step flowed naturally from the
fears of the king and the nearness of the feast, the tapu was early that morning re-enforced;
not a day too soon, from the manner the boats began to arrive thickly, and the town was filled
with the big rowdy vassals of Karaiti.

The effect lingered for some time on the minds of the traders; it was with the approval of
all present that I helped to draw up a petition to the United States, praying for a law against
the liquor trade in the Gilberts; and it was at this request that I added, under my own name,
a brief testimony of what had passed;--useless pains; since the whole reposes, probably unread
and possibly unopened, in a pigeon-hole at Washington.

Sunday, July 28.--This day we had the afterpiece of the debauch. The king and queen, in European
clothes, and followed by armed guards, attended church for the first time, and sat perched
aloft in a precarious dignity under the barrel-hoops.  Before sermon his majesty clambered
from the dais, stood lopsidedly upon the gravel floor, and in a few words abjured drinking.
The queen followed suit with a yet briefer allocution.  All the men in church were next addressed
in turn; each held up his right hand, and the affair was over--throne and church were reconciled.

CHAPTER VI--THE FIVE DAYS' FESTIVAL

Thursday, July 25.--The street was this day much enlivened by the presence of the men from
Little Makin; they average taller than Butaritarians, and being on a holiday, went wreathed
with yellow leaves and gorgeous in vivid colours.  They are said to be more savage, and to
be proud of the distinction.  Indeed, it seemed to us they swaggered in the town, like plaided
Highlanders upon the streets of Inverness, conscious of barbaric virtues.

In the afternoon the summer parlour was observed to be packed with people; others standing
outside and stooping to peer under the eaves, like children at home about a circus.  It was
the Makin company, rehearsing for the day of competition.  Karaiti sat in the front row close
to the singers, where we were summoned (I suppose in honour of Queen Victoria) to join him.
A strong breathless heat reigned under the iron roof, and the air was heavy with the scent
of wreaths.  The singers, with fine mats about their loins, cocoa- nut feathers set in rings
upon their fingers, and their heads crowned with yellow leaves, sat on the floor by companies.
A varying number of soloists stood up for different songs; and these bore the chief part in
the music.  But the full force of the companies, even when not singing, contributed continuously
to the effect, and marked the ictus of the measure, mimicking, grimacing, casting up their
heads and eyes, fluttering the feathers on their fingers, clapping hands, or beating (loud
as a kettledrum) on the left breast; the time was exquisite, the music barbarous, but full
of conscious art.  I noted some devices constantly employed.  A sudden change would be introduced
(I think of key) with no break of the measure, but emphasised by a sudden dramatic heightening
of the voice and a swinging, general gesticulation.  The voices of the soloists would begin
far apart in a rude discord, and gradually draw together to a unison; which, when, they had
reached, they were joined and drowned by the full chorus.  The ordinary, hurried, barking unmelodious
movement of the voices would at times be broken and glorified by a psalm-like strain of melody,
often well constructed, or seeming so by contrast.  There was much variety of measure, and
towards the end of each piece, when the fun became fast and furious, a recourse to this figure -

[Musical notation which cannot be produced.  It means two/four time with quaver, quaver, crotchet
repeated for three bars.]

It is difficult to conceive what fire and devilry they get into these hammering finales; all
go together, voices, hands, eyes, leaves, and fluttering finger-rings; the chorus swings to
the eye, the song throbs on the ear; the faces are convulsed with enthusiasm and effort.

Presently the troop stood up in a body, the drums forming a half- circle for the soloists,
who were sometimes five or even more in number.  The songs that followed were highly dramatic;
though I had none to give me any explanation, I would at times make out some shadowy but decisive
outline of a plot; and I was continually reminded of certain quarrelsome concerted scenes in
grand operas at home; just so the single voices issue from and fall again into the general
volume; just so do the performers separate and crowd together, brandish the raised hand, and
roll the eye to heaven--or the gallery.  Already this is beyond the Thespian model; the art
of this people is already past the embryo:  song, dance, drums, quartette and solo--it is the
drama full developed although still in miniature.  Of all so-called dancing in the South Seas,
that which I saw in Butaritari stands easily the first.  The hula, as it may be viewed by the
speedy globe-trotter in Honolulu, is surely the most dull of man's inventions, and the spectator
yawns under its length as at a college lecture or a parliamentary debate.  But the Gilbert
Island dance leads on the mind; it thrills, rouses, subjugates; it has the essence of all art,
an unexplored imminent significance.  Where so many are engaged, and where all must make (at
a given moment) the same swift, elaborate, and often arbitrary movement, the toil of rehearsal
is of course extreme.  But they begin as children.  A child and a man may often be seen together
in a maniap':  the man sings and gesticulates, the child stands before him with streaming tears
and tremulously copies him in act and sound; it is the Gilbert Island artist learning (as all
artists must) his art in sorrow.

I may seem to praise too much; here is a passage from my wife's diary, which proves that I
was not alone in being moved, and completes the picture:- 'The conductor gave the cue, and
all the dancers, waving their arms, swaying their bodies, and clapping their breasts in perfect
time, opened with an introductory.  The performers remained seated, except two, and once three,
and twice a single soloist.  These stood in the group, making a slight movement with the feet
and rhythmical quiver of the body as they sang. There was a pause after the introductory, and
then the real business of the opera--for it was no less--began; an opera where every singer
was an accomplished actor.  The leading man, in an impassioned ecstasy which possessed him
from head to foot, seemed transfigured; once it was as though a strong wind had swept over
the stage--their arms, their feathered fingers thrilling with an emotion that shook my nerves
as well:  heads and bodies followed like a field of grain before a gust.  My blood came hot
and cold, tears pricked my eyes, my head whirled, I felt an almost irresistible impulse to
join the dancers.  One drama, I think, I very nearly understood.  A fierce and savage old man
took the solo part.  He sang of the birth of a prince, and how he was tenderly rocked in his
mother's arms; of his boyhood, when he excelled his fellows in swimming, climbing, and all
athletic sports; of his youth, when he went out to sea with his boat and fished; of his manhood,
when he married a wife who cradled a son of his own in her arms.  Then came the alarm of war,
and a great battle, of which for a time the issue was doubtful; but the hero conquered, as
he always does, and with a tremendous burst of the victors the piece closed. There were also
comic pieces, which caused great amusement.  During one, an old man behind me clutched me by
the arm, shook his finger in my face with a roguish smile, and said something with a chuckle,
which I took to be the equivalent of "O, you women, you women; it is true of you all!"  I fear
it was not complimentary.  At no time was there the least sign of the ugly indecency of the
eastern islands.  All was poetry pure and simple.  The music itself was as complex as our own,
though constructed on an entirely different basis; once or twice I was startled by a bit of
something very like the best English sacred music, but it was only for an instant.  At last
there was a longer pause, and this time the dancers were all on their feet.  As the drama went
on, the interest grew.  The performers appealed to each other, to the audience, to the heaven
above; they took counsel with each other, the conspirators drew together in a knot; it was
just an opera, the drums coming in at proper intervals, the tenor, baritone, and bass all where
they should be--except that the voices were all of the same calibre.  A woman once sang from
the back row with a very fine contralto voice spoilt by being made artificially nasal; I notice
all the women affect that unpleasantness.  At one time a boy of angelic beauty was the soloist;
and at another, a child of six or eight, doubtless an infant phenomenon being trained, was
placed in the centre.  The little fellow was desperately frightened and embarrassed at first,
but towards the close warmed up to his work and showed much dramatic talent.  The changing
expressions on the faces of the dancers were so speaking, that it seemed a great stupidity
not to understand them.'

Our neighbour at this performance, Karaiti, somewhat favours his Butaritarian majesty in shape
and feature, being, like him, portly, bearded, and Oriental.  In character he seems the reverse:
alert, smiling, jovial, jocular, industrious.  At home in his own island, he labours himself
like a slave, and makes his people labour like a slave-driver.  He takes an interest in ideas.
George the trader told him about flying-machines.  'Is that true, George?' he asked. 'It is
in the papers,' replied George.  'Well,' said Karaiti, 'if that man can do it with machinery,
I can do it without'; and he designed and made a pair of wings, strapped them on his shoulders,
went to the end of a pier, launched himself into space, and fell bulkily into the sea.  His
wives fished him out, for his wings hindered him in swimming.  'George,' said he, pausing as
he went up to change, 'George, you lie.'  He had eight wives, for his small realm still follows
ancient customs; but he showed embarrassment when this was mentioned to my wife.  'Tell her
I have only brought one here,' he said anxiously.  Altogether the Black Douglas pleased us
much; and as we heard fresh details of the king's uneasiness, and saw for ourselves that all
the weapons in the summer parlour had been hid, we watched with the more admiration the cause
of all this anxiety rolling on his big legs, with his big smiling face, apparently unarmed,
and certainly unattended, through the hostile town.  The Red Douglas, pot-bellied Kuma, having
perhaps heard word of the debauch, remained upon his fief; his vassals thus came uncommanded
to the feast, and swelled the following of Karaiti.

Friday, July 26.--At night in the dark, the singers of Makin paraded in the road before our
house and sang the song of the princess.  'This is the day; she was born to-day; Nei Kamaunave
was born to-day--a beautiful princess, Queen of Butaritari.'  So I was told it went in endless
iteration.  The song was of course out of season, and the performance only a rehearsal.  But
it was a serenade besides; a delicate attention to ourselves from our new friend, Karaiti.

Saturday, July 27.--We had announced a performance of the magic lantern to-night in church;
and this brought the king to visit us. In honour of the Black Douglas (I suppose) his usual
two guardsmen were now increased to four; and the squad made an outlandish figure as they straggled
after him, in straw hats, kilts and jackets. Three carried their arms reversed, the butts over
their shoulders, the muzzles menacing the king's plump back; the fourth had passed his weapon
behind his neck, and held it there with arms extended like a backboard.  The visit was extraordinarily
long.  The king, no longer galvanised with gin, said and did nothing.  He sat collapsed in
a chair and let a cigar go out.  It was hot, it was sleepy, it was cruel dull; there was no
resource but to spy in the countenance of Tebureimoa for some remaining trait of Mr. Corpse
the butcher.  His hawk nose, crudely depressed and flattened at the point, did truly seem to
us to smell of midnight murder.  When he took his leave, Maka bade me observe him going down
the stair (or rather ladder) from the verandah.  'Old man,' said Maka.  'Yes,' said I, 'and
yet I suppose not old man.'  'Young man,' returned Maka, 'perhaps fo'ty.'  And I have heard
since he is most likely younger.

While the magic lantern was showing, I skulked without in the dark. The voice of Maka, excitedly
explaining the Scripture slides, seemed to fill not the church only, but the neighbourhood.
All else was silent.  Presently a distant sound of singing arose and approached; and a procession
drew near along the road, the hot clean smell of the men and women striking in my face delightfully.
At the corner, arrested by the voice of Maka and the lightening and darkening of the church,
they paused.  They had no mind to go nearer, that was plain.  They were Makin people, I believe,
probably staunch heathens, contemners of the missionary and his works.  Of a sudden, however,
a man broke from their company, took to his heels, and fled into the church; next moment three
had followed him; the next it was a covey of near upon a score, all pelting for their lives.
So the little band of the heathen paused irresolute at the corner, and melted before the attractions
of a magic lantern, like a glacier in spring.  The more staunch vainly taunted the deserters;
three fled in a guilty silence, but still fled; and when at length the leader found the wit
or the authority to get his troop in motion and revive the singing, it was with much diminished
forces that they passed musically on up the dark road.

Meanwhile inside the luminous pictures brightened and faded.  I stood for some while unobserved
in the rear of the spectators, when I could hear just in front of me a pair of lovers following
the show with interest, the male playing the part of interpreter and (like Adam) mingling caresses
with his lecture.  The wild animals, a tiger in particular, and that old school-treat favourite,
the sleeper and the mouse, were hailed with joy; but the chief marvel and delight was in the
gospel series.  Maka, in the opinion of his aggrieved wife, did not properly rise to the occasion.
'What is the matter with the man?  Why can't he talk?' she cried.  The matter with the man,
I think, was the greatness of the opportunity; he reeled under his good fortune; and whether
he did ill or well, the exposure of these pious 'phantoms' did as a matter of fact silence
in all that part of the island the voice of the scoffer. 'Why then,' the word went round, 'why
then, the Bible is true!' And on our return afterwards we were told the impression was yet
lively, and those who had seen might be heard telling those who had not, 'O yes, it is all
true; these things all happened, we have seen the pictures.'  The argument is not so childish
as it seems; for I doubt if these islanders are acquainted with any other mode of representation
but photography; so that the picture of an event (on the old melodrama principle that 'the
camera cannot lie, Joseph,') would appear strong proof of its occurrence.  The fact amused
us the more because our slides were some of them ludicrously silly, and one (Christ before
Pilate) was received with shouts of merriment, in which even Maka was constrained to join.

Sunday, July 28.--Karaiti came to ask for a repetition of the 'phantoms'--this was the accepted
word--and, having received a promise, turned and left my humble roof without the shadow of
a salutation.  I felt it impolite to have the least appearance of pocketing a slight; the times
had been too difficult, and were still too doubtful; and Queen Victoria's son was bound to
maintain the honour of his house.  Karaiti was accordingly summoned that evening to the Ricks,
where Mrs. Rick fell foul of him in words, and Queen Victoria's son assailed him with indignant
looks.  I was the ass with the lion's skin; I could not roar in the language of the Gilbert
Islands; but I could stare.  Karaiti declared he had meant no offence; apologised in a sound,
hearty, gentlemanly manner; and became at once at his ease.  He had in a dagger to examine,
and announced he would come to price it on the morrow, to- day being Sunday; this nicety in
a heathen with eight wives surprised me.  The dagger was 'good for killing fish,' he said roguishly;
and was supposed to have his eye upon fish upon two legs.  It is at least odd that in Eastern
Polynesia fish was the accepted euphemism for the human sacrifice.  Asked as to the population
of his island, Karaiti called out to his vassals who sat waiting him outside the door, and
they put it at four hundred and fifty; but (added Karaiti jovially) there will soon be plenty
more, for all the women are in the family way.  Long before we separated I had quite forgotten
his offence.  He, however, still bore it in mind; and with a very courteous inspiration returned
early on the next day, paid us a long visit, and punctiliously said farewell when he departed.

Monday, July 29.--The great day came round at last.  In the first hours the night was startled
by the sound of clapping hands and the chant of Nei Kamaunava; its melancholy, slow, and somewhat
menacing measures broken at intervals by a formidable shout.  The little morsel of humanity
thus celebrated in the dark hours was observed at midday playing on the green entirely naked,
and equally unobserved and unconcerned.

The summer parlour on its artificial islet, relieved against the shimmering lagoon, and shimmering
itself with sun and tinned iron, was all day crowded about by eager men and women.  Within,
it was boxed full of islanders, of any age and size, and in every degree of nudity and finery.
So close we squatted, that at one time I had a mighty handsome woman on my knees, two little
naked urchins having their feet against my back.  There might be a dame in full attire of holoku
and hat and flowers; and her next neighbour might the next moment strip some little rag of
a shift from her fat shoulders and come out a monument of flesh, painted rather than covered
by the hairbreadth ridi.  Little ladies who thought themselves too great to appear undraped
upon so high a festival were seen to pause outside in the bright sunshine, their miniature
ridis in their hand; a moment more and they were full-dressed and entered the concert-room.

At either end stood up to sing, or sat down to rest, the alternate companies of singers; Kuma
and Little Makin on the north, Butaritari and its conjunct hamlets on the south; both groups
conspicuous in barbaric bravery.  In the midst, between these rival camps of troubadours, a
bench was placed; and here the king and queen throned it, some two or three feet above the
crowded audience on the floor--Tebureimoa as usual in his striped pyjamas with a satchel strapped
across one shoulder, doubtless (in the island fashion) to contain his pistols; the queen in
a purple holoku, her abundant hair let down, a fan in her hand.  The bench was turned facing
to the strangers, a piece of well-considered civility; and when it was the turn of Butaritari
to sing, the pair must twist round on the bench, lean their elbows on the rail, and turn to
us the spectacle of their broad backs.  The royal couple occasionally solaced themselves with
a clay pipe; and the pomp of state was further heightened by the rifles of a picket of the guard.

With this kingly countenance, and ourselves squatted on the ground, we heard several songs
from one side or the other.  Then royalty and its guards withdrew, and Queen Victoria's son
and daughter-in- law were summoned by acclamation to the vacant throne.  Our pride was perhaps
a little modified when we were joined on our high places by a certain thriftless loafer of
a white; and yet I was glad too, for the man had a smattering of native, and could give me
some idea of the subject of the songs.  One was patriotic, and dared Tembinok' of Apemama,
the terror of the group, to an invasion.  One mixed the planting of taro and the harvest-home.
Some were historical, and commemorated kings and the illustrious chances of their time, such
as a bout of drinking or a war.  One, at least, was a drama of domestic interest, excellently
played by the troop from Makin.  It told the story of a man who has lost his wife, at first
bewails her loss, then seeks another:  the earlier strains (or acts) are played exclusively
by men; but towards the end a woman appears, who has just lost her husband; and I suppose the
pair console each other, for the finale seemed of happy omen. Of some of the songs my informant
told me briefly they were 'like about the weemen'; this I could have guessed myself.  Each
side (I should have said) was strengthened by one or two women.  They were all soloists, did
not very often join in the performance, but stood disengaged at the back part of the stage,
and looked (in ridi, necklace, and dressed hair) for all the world like European ballet- dancers.
When the song was anyway broad these ladies came particularly to the front; and it was singular
to see that, after each entry, the premiere danseuse pretended to be overcome by shame, as
though led on beyond what she had meant, and her male assistants made a feint of driving her
away like one who had disgraced herself.  Similar affectations accompany certain truly obscene
dances of Samoa, where they are very well in place.  Here it was different.  The words, perhaps,
in this free-spoken world, were gross enough to make a carter blush; and the most suggestive
feature was this feint of shame.  For such parts the women showed some disposition; they were
pert, they were neat, they were acrobatic, they were at times really amusing, and some of them
were pretty.  But this is not the artist's field; there is the whole width of heaven between
such capering and ogling, and the strange rhythmic gestures, and strange, rapturous, frenzied
faces with which the best of the male dancers held us spellbound through a Gilbert Island ballet.

Almost from the first it was apparent that the people of the city were defeated.  I might have
thought them even good, only I had the other troop before my eyes to correct my standard, and
remind me continually of 'the little more, and how much it is.'  Perceiving themselves worsted,
the choir of Butaritari grew confused, blundered, and broke down; amid this hubbub of unfamiliar
intervals I should not myself have recognised the slip, but the audience were quick to catch
it, and to jeer.  To crown all, the Makin company began a dance of truly superlative merit.
I know not what it was about, I was too much absorbed to ask.  In one act a part of the chorus,
squealing in some strange falsetto, produced very much the effect of our orchestra; in another,
the dancers, leaping like jumping-jacks, with arms extended, passed through and through each
other's ranks with extraordinary speed, neatness, and humour.  A more laughable effect I never
saw; in any European theatre it would have brought the house down, and the island audience
roared with laughter and applause.  This filled up the measure for the rival company, and they
forgot themselves and decency.  After each act or figure of the ballet, the performers pause
a moment standing, and the next is introduced by the clapping of hands in triplets.  Not until
the end of the whole ballet do they sit down, which is the signal for the rivals to stand up.
But now all rules were to be broken.  During the interval following on this great applause,
the company of Butaritari leaped suddenly to their feet and most unhandsomely began a performance
of their own.  It was strange to see the men of Makin staring; I have seen a tenor in Europe
stare with the same blank dignity into a hissing theatre; but presently, to my surprise, they
sobered down, gave up the unsung remainder of their ballet, resumed their seats, and suffered
their ungallant adversaries to go on and finish.  Nothing would suffice.  Again, at the first
interval, Butaritari unhandsomely cut in; Makin, irritated in turn, followed the example; and
the two companies of dancers remained permanently standing, continuously clapping hands, and
regularly cutting across each other at each pause.  I expected blows to begin with any moment;
and our position in the midst was highly unstrategical.  But the Makin people had a better
thought; and upon a fresh interruption turned and trooped out of the house. We followed them,
first because these were the artists, second because they were guests and had been scurvily
ill-used.  A large population of our neighbours did the same, so that the causeway was filled
from end to end by the procession of deserters; and the Butaritari choir was left to sing for
its own pleasure in an empty house, having gained the point and lost the audience.  It was
surely fortunate that there was no one drunk; but, drunk or sober, where else would a scene
so irritating have concluded without blows?

The last stage and glory of this auspicious day was of our own providing--the second and positively
the last appearance of the phantoms.  All round the church, groups sat outside, in the night,
where they could see nothing; perhaps ashamed to enter, certainly finding some shadowy pleasure
in the mere proximity.  Within, about one-half of the great shed was densely packed with people.
In the midst, on the royal dais, the lantern luminously smoked; chance rays of light struck
out the earnest countenance of our Chinaman grinding the hand-organ; a fainter glimmer showed
off the rafters and their shadows in the hollow of the roof; the pictures shone and vanished
on the screen; and as each appeared, there would run a hush, a whisper, a strong shuddering
rustle, and a chorus of small cries among the crowd.  There sat by me the mate of a wrecked
schooner.  'They would think this a strange sight in Europe or the States,' said he, 'going
on in a building like this, all tied with bits of string.'

CHAPTER VII--HUSBAND AND WIFE

The trader accustomed to the manners of Eastern Polynesia has a lesson to learn among the Gilberts.
The ridi is but a spare attire; as late as thirty years back the women went naked until marriage;
within ten years the custom lingered; and these facts, above all when heard in description,
conveyed a very false idea of the manners of the group.  A very intelligent missionary described
it (in its former state) as a 'Paradise of naked women' for the resident whites.  It was at
least a platonic Paradise, where Lothario ventured at his peril.  Since 1860, fourteen whites
have perished on a single island, all for the same cause, all found where they had no business,
and speared by some indignant father of a family; the figure was given me by one of their contemporaries
who had been more prudent and survived.  The strange persistence of these fourteen martyrs
might seem to point to monomania or a series of romantic passions; gin is the more likely key.
The poor buzzards sat alone in their houses by an open case; they drank; their brain was fired;
they stumbled towards the nearest houses on chance; and the dart went through their liver.
In place of a Paradise the trader found an archipelago of fierce husbands and of virtuous women.
'Of course if you wish to make love to them, it's the same as anywhere else,' observed a trader
innocently; but he and his companions rarely so choose.

The trader must be credited with a virtue:  he often makes a kind and loyal husband.  Some
of the worst beachcombers in the Pacific, some of the last of the old school, have fallen in
my path, and some of them were admirable to their native wives, and one made a despairing widower.
The position of a trader's wife in the Gilberts is, besides, unusually enviable.  She shares
the immunities of her husband.  Curfew in Butaritari sounds for her in vain.  Long after the
bell is rung and the great island ladies are confined for the night to their own roof, this
chartered libertine may scamper and giggle through the deserted streets or go down to bathe
in the dark.  The resources of the store are at her hand; she goes arrayed like a queen, and
feasts delicately everyday upon tinned meats.  And she who was perhaps of no regard or station
among natives sits with captains, and is entertained on board of schooners.  Five of these
privileged dames were some time our neighbours.  Four were handsome skittish lasses, gamesome
like children, and like children liable to fits of pouting.  They wore dresses by day, but
there was a tendency after dark to strip these lendings and to career and squall about the
compound in the aboriginal ridi.  Games of cards were continually played, with shells for counters;
their course was much marred by cheating; and the end of a round (above all if a man was of
the party) resolved itself into a scrimmage for the counters.  The fifth was a matron. It was
a picture to see her sail to church on a Sunday, a parasol in hand, a nursemaid following,
and the baby buried in a trade hat and armed with a patent feeding-bottle.  The service was
enlivened by her continual supervision and correction of the maid.  It was impossible not to
fancy the baby was a doll, and the church some European playroom.  All these women were legitimately
married.  It is true that the certificate of one, when she proudly showed it, proved to run
thus, that she was 'married for one night,' and her gracious partner was at liberty to 'send
her to hell' the next morning; but she was none the wiser or the worse for the dastardly trick.
Another, I heard, was married on a work of mine in a pirated edition; it answered the purpose
as well as a Hall Bible. Notwithstanding all these allurements of social distinction, rare
food and raiment, a comparative vacation from toil, and legitimate marriage contracted on a
pirated edition, the trader must sometimes seek long before he can be mated.  While I was in
the group one had been eight months on the quest, and he was still a bachelor.

Within strictly native society the old laws and practices were harsh, but not without a certain
stamp of high-mindedness. Stealthy adultery was punished with death; open elopement was properly
considered virtue in comparison, and compounded for a fine in land.  The male adulterer alone
seems to have been punished.  It is correct manners for a jealous man to hang himself; a jealous
woman has a different remedy--she bites her rival.  Ten or twenty years ago it was a capital
offence to raise a woman's ridi; to this day it is still punished with a heavy fine; and the
garment itself is still symbolically sacred.  Suppose a piece of land to be disputed in Butaritari,
the claimant who shall first hang a ridi on the tapu-post has gained his cause, since no one
can remove or touch it but himself.

The ridi was the badge not of the woman but the wife, the mark not of her sex but of her station.
It was the collar on the slave's neck, the brand on merchandise.  The adulterous woman seems
to have been spared; were the husband offended, it would be a poor consolation to send his
draught cattle to the shambles.  Karaiti, to this day, calls his eight wives 'his horses,'
some trader having explained to him the employment of these animals on farms; and Nanteitei
hired out his wives to do mason-work.  Husbands, at least when of high rank, had the power
of life and death; even whites seem to have possessed it; and their wives, when they had transgressed
beyond forgiveness, made haste to pronounce the formula of deprecation--I KANA KIM.  This form
of words had so much virtue that a condemned criminal repeating it on a particular day to the
king who had condemned him, must be instantly released.  It is an offer of abasement, and,
strangely enough, the reverse--the imitation--is a common vulgar insult in Great Britain to
this day. I give a scene between a trader and his Gilbert Island wife, as it was told me by
the husband, now one of the oldest residents, but then a freshman in the group.

'Go and light a fire,' said the trader, 'and when I have brought this oil I will cook some
fish.'  The woman grunted at him, island fashion.  'I am not a pig that you should grunt at
me,' said he.

'I know you are not a pig,' said the woman, 'neither am I your slave.'

'To be sure you are not my slave, and if you do not care to stop with me, you had better go
home to your people,' said he.  'But in the mean time go and light the fire; and when I have
brought this oil I will cook some fish.'

She went as if to obey; and presently when the trader looked she had built a fire so big that
the cook-house was catching in flames.

'I Kana Kim!' she cried, as she saw him coming; but he recked not, and hit her with a cooking-pot.
The leg pierced her skull, blood spouted, it was thought she was a dead woman, and the natives
surrounded the house in a menacing expectation.  Another white was present, a man of older
experience.  'You will have us both killed if you go on like this,' he cried.  'She had said
I Kana Kim!'  If she had not said I Kana Kim he might have struck her with a caldron.  It was
not the blow that made the crime, but the disregard of an accepted formula.

Polygamy, the particular sacredness of wives, their semi-servile state, their seclusion in
kings' harems, even their privilege of biting, all would seem to indicate a Mohammedan society
and the opinion of the soullessness of woman.  And not so in the least.  It is a mere appearance.
After you have studied these extremes in one house, you may go to the next and find all reversed,
the woman the mistress, the man only the first of her thralls.  The authority is not with the
husband as such, nor the wife as such.  It resides in the chief or the chief-woman; in him
or her who has inherited the lands of the clan, and stands to the clansman in the place of
parent, exacting their service, answerable for their fines.  There is but the one source of
power and the one ground of dignity--rank. The king married a chief-woman; she became his menial,
and must work with her hands on Messrs. Wightman's pier.  The king divorced her; she regained
at once her former state and power.  She married the Hawaiian sailor, and behold the man is
her flunkey and can be shown the door at pleasure.  Nay, and such low-born lords are even corrected
physically, and, like grown but dutiful children, must endure the discipline.

We were intimate in one such household, that of Nei Takauti and Nan Tok'; I put the lady first
of necessity.  During one week of fool's paradise, Mrs. Stevenson had gone alone to the sea-side
of the island after shells.  I am very sure the proceeding was unsafe; and she soon perceived
a man and woman watching her.  Do what she would, her guardians held her steadily in view;
and when the afternoon began to fall, and they thought she had stayed long enough, took her
in charge, and by signs and broken English ordered her home.  On the way the lady drew from
her earring-hole a clay pipe, the husband lighted it, and it was handed to my unfortunate wife,
who knew not how to refuse the incommodious favour; and when they were all come to our house,
the pair sat down beside her on the floor, and improved the occasion with prayer.  From that
day they were our family friends; bringing thrice a day the beautiful island garlands of white
flowers, visiting us any evening, and frequently carrying us down to their own maniap' in return,
the woman leading Mrs. Stevenson by the hand like one child with another.

Nan Tok', the husband, was young, extremely handsome, of the most approved good humour, and
suffering in his precarious station from suppressed high spirits.  Nei Takauti, the wife, was
getting old; her grown son by a former marriage had just hanged himself before his mother's
eyes in despair at a well-merited rebuke.  Perhaps she had never been beautiful, but her face
was full of character, her eye of sombre fire.  She was a high chief-woman, but by a strange
exception for a person of her rank, was small, spare, and sinewy, with lean small hands and
corded neck.  Her full dress of an evening was invariably a white chemise--and for adornment,
green leaves (or sometimes white blossoms) stuck in her hair and thrust through her huge earring-holes.
The husband on the contrary changed to view like a kaleidoscope.  Whatever pretty thing my
wife might have given to Nei Takauti--a string of beads, a ribbon, a piece of bright fabric--appeared
the next evening on the person of Nan Tok'.  It was plain he was a clothes-horse; that he wore
livery; that, in a word, he was his wife's wife.  They reversed the parts indeed, down to the
least particular; it was the husband who showed himself the ministering angel in the hour of
pain, while the wife displayed the apathy and heartlessness of the proverbial man.

When Nei Takauti had a headache Nan Tok' was full of attention and concern.  When the husband
had a cold and a racking toothache the wife heeded not, except to jeer.  It is always the woman's
part to fill and light the pipe; Nei Takauti handed hers in silence to the wedded page; but
she carried it herself, as though the page were not entirely trusted.  Thus she kept the money,
but it was he who ran the errands, anxiously sedulous.  A cloud on her face dimmed instantly
his beaming looks; on an early visit to their maniap' my wife saw he had cause to be wary.
Nan Tok' had a friend with him, a giddy young thing, of his own age and sex; and they had worked
themselves into that stage of jocularity when consequences are too often disregarded.  Nei
Takauti mentioned her own name.  Instantly Nan Tok' held up two fingers, his friend did likewise,
both in an ecstasy of slyness.  It was plain the lady had two names; and from the nature of
their merriment, and the wrath that gathered on her brow, there must be something ticklish
in the second.  The husband pronounced it; a well-directed cocoa-nut from the hand of his wife
caught him on the side of the head, and the voices and the mirth of these indiscreet young
gentlemen ceased for the day.

The people of Eastern Polynesia are never at a loss; their etiquette is absolute and plenary;
in every circumstance it tells them what to do and how to do it.  The Gilbertines are seemingly
more free, and pay for their freedom (like ourselves) in frequent perplexity.  This was often
the case with the topsy-turvy couple. We had once supplied them during a visit with a pipe
and tobacco; and when they had smoked and were about to leave, they found themselves confronted
with a problem:  should they take or leave what remained of the tobacco?  The piece of plug
was taken up, it was laid down again, it was handed back and forth, and argued over, till the
wife began to look haggard and the husband elderly.  They ended by taking it, and I wager were
not yet clear of the compound before they were sure they had decided wrong.  Another time they
had been given each a liberal cup of coffee, and Nan Tok' with difficulty and disaffection
made an end of his.  Nei Takauti had taken some, she had no mind for more, plainly conceived
it would be a breach of manners to set down the cup unfinished, and ordered her wedded retainer
to dispose of what was left.  'I have swallowed all I can, I cannot swallow more, it is a physical
impossibility,' he seemed to say; and his stern officer reiterated her commands with secret
imperative signals.  Luckless dog! but in mere humanity we came to the rescue and removed the cup.

I cannot but smile over this funny household; yet I remember the good souls with affection
and respect.  Their attention to ourselves was surprising.  The garlands are much esteemed,
the blossoms must be sought far and wide; and though they had many retainers to call to their
aid, we often saw themselves passing afield after the blossoms, and the wife engaged with her
own in putting them together.  It was no want of only that disregard so incident to husbands,
that made Nei Takauti despise the sufferings of Nan Tok'.  When my wife was unwell she proved
a diligent and kindly nurse; and the pair, to the extreme embarrassment of the sufferer, became
fixtures in the sick-room.  This rugged, capable, imperious old dame, with the wild eyes, had
deep and tender qualities:  her pride in her young husband it seemed that she dissembled, fearing
possibly to spoil him; and when she spoke of her dead son there came something tragic in her
face.  But I seemed to trace in the Gilbertines a virility of sense and sentiment which distinguishes
them (like their harsh and uncouth language) from their brother islanders in the east.

PART IV:  THE GILBERTS--APEMAMA

CHAPTER I--THE KING OF APEMAMA:  THE ROYAL TRADER

There is one great personage in the Gilberts:  Tembinok' of Apemama:  solely conspicuous, the
hero of song, the butt of gossip. Through the rest of the group the kings are slain or fallen
in tutelage:  Tembinok' alone remains, the last tyrant, the last erect vestige of a dead society.
The white man is everywhere else, building his houses, drinking his gin, getting in and out
of trouble with the weak native governments.  There is only one white on Apemama, and he on
sufferance, living far from court, and hearkening and watching his conduct like a mouse in
a cat's ear. Through all the other islands a stream of native visitors comes and goes, travelling
by families, spending years on the grand tour. Apemama alone is left upon one side, the tourist
dreading to risk himself within the clutch of Tembinok'.  And fear of the same Gorgon follows
and troubles them at home.  Maiana once paid him tribute; he once fell upon and seized Nonuti:
first steps to the empire of the archipelago.  A British warship coming on the scene, the conqueror
was driven to disgorge, his career checked in the outset, his dear-bought armoury sunk in his
own lagoon.  But the impression had been made; periodical fear of him still shakes the islands;
rumour depicts him mustering his canoes for a fresh onfall; rumour can name his destination;
and Tembinok' figures in the patriotic war-songs of the Gilberts like Napoleon in those of
our grandfathers.

We were at sea, bound from Mariki to Nonuti and Tapituea, when the wind came suddenly fair
for Apemama.  The course was at once changed; all hands were turned-to to clean ship, the decks
holy- stoned, all the cabin washed, the trade-room overhauled.  In all our cruising we never
saw the Equator so smart as she was made for Tembinok'.  Nor was Captain Reid alone in these
coquetries; for, another schooner chancing to arrive during my stay in Apemama, I found that
she also was dandified for the occasion.  And the two cases stand alone in my experience of
South Sea traders.

We had on board a family of native tourists, from the grandsire to the babe in arms, trying
(against an extraordinary series of ill- luck) to regain their native island of Peru.  Five
times already they had paid their fare and taken ship; five times they had been disappointed,
dropped penniless upon strange islands, or carried back to Butaritari, whence they sailed.
This last attempt had been no better-starred; their provisions were exhausted.  Peru was beyond
hope, and they had cheerfully made up their minds to a fresh stage of exile in Tapituea or
Nonuti.  With this slant of wind their random destination became once more changed; and like
the Calendar's pilot, when the 'black mountains' hove in view, they changed colour and beat
upon their breasts.  Their camp, which was on deck in the ship's waist, resounded with complaint.
They would be set to work, they must become slaves, escape was hopeless, they must live and
toil and die in Apemama, in the tyrant's den.  With this sort of talk they so greatly terrified
their children, that one (a big hulking boy) must at last be torn screaming from the schooner's
side.  And their fears were wholly groundless.  I have little doubt they were not suffered
to be idle; but I can vouch for it that they were kindly and generously used.  For, the matter
of a year later, I was once more shipmate with these inconsistent wanderers on board the Janet
Nicoll.  Their fare was paid by Tembinok'; they who had gone ashore from the Equator destitute,
reappeared upon the Janet with new clothes, laden with mats and presents, and bringing with
them a magazine of food, on which they lived like fighting-cocks throughout the voyage; I saw
them at length repatriated, and I must say they showed more concern on quitting Apemama than
delight at reaching home.

We entered by the north passage (Sunday, September 1st), dodging among shoals.  It was a day
of fierce equatorial sunshine; but the breeze was strong and chill; and the mate, who conned
the schooner from the cross-trees, returned shivering to the deck.  The lagoon was thick with
many-tinted wavelets; a continuous roaring of the outer sea overhung the anchorage; and the
long, hollow crescent of palm ruffled and sparkled in the wind.  Opposite our berth the beach
was seen to be surmounted for some distance by a terrace of white coral seven or eight feet
high and crowned in turn by the scattered and incongruous buildings of the palace.  The village
adjoins on the south, a cluster of high-roofed maniap's.  And village and palace seemed deserted.

We were scarce yet moored, however, before distant and busy figures appeared upon the beach,
a boat was launched, and a crew pulled out to us bringing the king's ladder.  Tembinok' had
once an accident; has feared ever since to entrust his person to the rotten chandlery of South
Sea traders; and devised in consequence a frame of wood, which is brought on board a ship as
soon as she appears, and remains lashed to her side until she leave.  The boat's crew, having
applied this engine, returned at once to shore.  They might not come on board; neither might
we land, or not without danger of offence; the king giving pratique in person.  An interval
followed, during which dinner was delayed for the great man--the prelude of the ladder, giving
us some notion of his weighty body and sensible, ingenious character, had highly whetted our
curiosity; and it was with something like excitement that we saw the beach and terrace suddenly
blacken with attendant vassals, the king and party embark, the boat (a man-of-war gig) come
flying towards us dead before the wind, and the royal coxswain lay us cleverly aboard, mount
the ladder with a jealous diffidence, and descend heavily on deck.

Not long ago he was overgrown with fat, obscured to view, and a burthen to himself.  Captains
visiting the island advised him to walk; and though it broke the habits of a life and the traditions
of his rank, he practised the remedy with benefit.  His corpulence is now portable; you would
call him lusty rather than fat; but his gait is still dull, stumbling, and elephantine.  He
neither stops nor hastens, but goes about his business with an implacable deliberation.  We
could never see him and not be struck with his extraordinary natural means for the theatre:
a beaked profile like Dante's in the mask, a mane of long black hair, the eye brilliant, imperious,
and inquiring:  for certain parts, and to one who could have used it, the face was a fortune.
His voice matched it well, being shrill, powerful, and uncanny, with a note like a sea-bird's.
Where there are no fashions, none to set them, few to follow them if they were set, and none
to criticise, he dresses--as Sir Charles Grandison lived--'to his own heart.'  Now he wears
a woman's frock, now a naval uniform; now (and more usually) figures in a masquerade costume
of his own design:  trousers and a singular jacket with shirt tails, the cut and fit wonderful
for island workmanship, the material always handsome, sometimes green velvet, sometimes cardinal
red silk.  This masquerade becomes him admirably.  In the woman's frock he looks ominous and
weird beyond belief.  I see him now come pacing towards me in the cruel sun, solitary, a figure
out of Hoffmann.

A visit on board ship, such as that at which we now assisted, makes a chief part and by far
the chief diversion of the life of Tembinok'.  He is not only the sole ruler, he is the sole
merchant of his triple kingdom, Apemama, Aranuka, and Kuria, well-planted islands.  The taro
goes to the chiefs, who divide as they please among their immediate adherents; but certain
fish, turtles--which abound in Kuria,--and the whole produce of the coco-palm, belong exclusively
to Tembinok'.  'A' cobra berong me,' observed his majesty with a wave of his hand; and he counts
and sells it by the houseful.  'You got copra, king?' I have heard a trader ask.  'I got two,
three outches,' his majesty replied:  'I think three.' Hence the commercial importance of Apemama,
the trade of three islands being centred there in a single hand; hence it is that so many whites
have tried in vain to gain or to preserve a footing; hence ships are adorned, cooks have special
orders, and captains array themselves in smiles, to greet the king.  If he be pleased with
his welcome and the fare he may pass days on board, and, every day, and sometimes every hour,
will be of profit to the ship.  He oscillates between the cabin, where he is entertained with
strange meats, and the trade-room, where he enjoys the pleasures of shopping on a scale to
match his person.  A few obsequious attendants squat by the house door, awaiting his least
signal.  In the boat, which has been suffered to drop astern, one or two of his wives lie covered
from the sun under mats, tossed by the short sea of the lagoon, and enduring agonies of heat
and tedium.  This severity is now and then relaxed and the wives allowed on board. Three or
four were thus favoured on the day of our arrival: substantial ladies airily attired in ridis.
Each had a share of copra, her peculium, to dispose of for herself.  The display in the trade-room--hats,
ribbbons, dresses, scents, tins of salmon--the pride of the eye and the lust of the flesh--tempted
them in vain. They had but the one idea--tobacco, the island currency, tantamount to minted
gold; returned to shore with it, burthened but rejoicing; and late into the night, on the royal
terrace, were to be seen counting the sticks by lamplight in the open air.

The king is no such economist.  He is greedy of things new and foreign.  House after house,
chest after chest, in the palace precinct, is already crammed with clocks, musical boxes, blue
spectacles, umbrellas, knitted waistcoats, bolts of stuff, tools, rifles, fowling-pieces, medicines,
European foods, sewing-machines, and, what is more extraordinary, stoves:  all that ever caught
his eye, tickled his appetite, pleased him for its use, or puzzled him with its apparent inutility.
And still his lust is unabated.  He is possessed by the seven devils of the collector.  He
hears a thing spoken of, and a shadow comes on his face.  'I think I no got him,' he will say;
and the treasures he has seem worthless in comparison.  If a ship be bound for Apemama, the
merchant racks his brain to hit upon some novelty.  This he leaves carelessly in the main cabin
or partly conceals in his own berth, so that the king shall spy it for himself.  'How much
you want?' inquires Tembinok', passing and pointing.  'No, king; that too dear,' returns the
trader.  'I think I like him,' says the king.  This was a bowl of gold-fish.  On another occasion
it was scented soap.  'No, king; that cost too much,' said the trader; 'too good for a Kanaka.'
'How much you got?  I take him all,' replied his majesty, and became the lord of seventeen
boxes at two dollars a cake.  Or again, the merchant feigns the article is not for sale, is
private property, an heirloom or a gift; and the trick infallibly succeeds. Thwart the king
and you hold him.  His autocratic nature rears at the affront of opposition.  He accepts it
for a challenge; sets his teeth like a hunter going at a fence; and with no mark of emotion,
scarce even of interest, stolidly piles up the price.  Thus, for our sins, he took a fancy
to my wife's dressing-bag, a thing entirely useless to the man, and sadly battered by years
of service.  Early one forenoon he came to our house, sat down, and abruptly offered to purchase
it.  I told him I sold nothing, and the bag at any rate was a present from a friend; but he
was acquainted with these pretexts from of old, and knew what they were worth and how to meet
them.  Adopting what I believe is called 'the object method,' he drew out a bag of English
gold, sovereigns and half-sovereigns, and began to lay them one by one in silence on the table;
at each fresh piece reading our faces with a look.  In vain I continued to protest I was no
trader; he deigned not to reply. There must have been twenty pounds on the table, he was still
going on, and irritation had begun to mingle with our embarrassment, when a happy idea came
to our delivery.  Since his majesty thought so much of the bag, we said, we must beg him to
accept it as a present.  It was the most surprising turn in Tembinok's experience. He perceived
too late that his persistence was unmannerly; hung his head a while in silence; then, lifting
up a sheepish countenance, 'I 'shamed,' said the tyrant.  It was the first and the last time
we heard him own to a flaw in his behaviour.  Half an hour after he sent us a camphor-wood
chest worth only a few dollars--but then heaven knows what Tembinok' had paid for it.

Cunning by nature, and versed for forty years in the government of men, it must not be supposed
that he is cheated blindly, or has resigned himself without resistance to be the milch-cow
of the passing trader.  His efforts have been even heroic.  Like Nakaeia of Makin, he has owned
schooners.  More fortunate than Nakaeia, he has found captains.  Ships of his have sailed as
far as to the colonies.  He has trafficked direct, in his own bottoms, with New Zealand.  And
even so, even there, the world-enveloping dishonesty of the white man prevented him; his profit
melted, his ship returned in debt, the money for the insurance was embezzled, and when the
Coronet came to be lost, he was astonished to find he had lost all.  At this he dropped his
weapons; owned he might as hopefully wrestle with the winds of heaven; and like an experienced
sheep, submitted his fleece thenceforward to the shearers.  He is the last man in the world
to waste anger on the incurable; accepts it with cynical composure; asks no more in those he
deals with than a certain decency of moderation; drives as good a bargain as he can; and when
he considers he is more than usually swindled, writes it in his memory against the merchant's
name.  He once ran over to me a list of captains and supercargoes with whom he had done business,
classing them under three heads:  'He cheat a litty'--'He cheat plenty'--and 'I think he cheat
too much.'  For the first two classes he expressed perfect toleration; sometimes, but not always,
for the third.  I was present when a certain merchant was turned about his business, and was
the means (having a considerable influence ever since the bag) of patching up the dispute.
Even on the day of our arrival there was like to have been a hitch with Captain Reid:  the
ground of which is perhaps worth recital.  Among goods exported specially for Tembinok' there
is a beverage known (and labelled) as Hennessy's brandy.  It is neither Hennessy, nor even
brandy; is about the colour of sherry, but is not sherry; tastes of kirsch, and yet neither
is it kirsch.  The king, at least, has grown used to this amazing brand, and rather prides
himself upon the taste; and any substitution is a double offence, being at once to cheat him
and to cast a doubt upon his palate.  A similar weakness is to be observed in all connoisseurs.
Now the last case sold by the Equator was found to contain a different and I would fondly fancy
a superior distillation; and the conversation opened very black for Captain Reid.  But Tembinok'
is a moderate man.  He was reminded and admitted that all men were liable to error, even himself;
accepted the principle that a fault handsomely acknowledged should be condoned; and wound the
matter up with this proposal:  'Tuppoti I mi'take, you 'peakee me.  Tuppoti you mi'take, I
'peakee you.  Mo' betta.'

After dinner and supper in the cabin, a glass or two of 'Hennetti'- -the genuine article this
time, with the kirsch bouquet,--and five hours' lounging on the trade-room counter, royalty
embarked for home.  Three tacks grounded the boat before the palace; the wives were carried
ashore on the backs of vassals; Tembinok' stepped on a railed platform like a steamer's gangway,
and was borne shoulder high through the shallows, up the beach, and by an inclined plane, paved
with pebbles, to the glaring terrace where he dwells.

CHAPTER II--THE KING OF APEMAMA:  FOUNDATION OF EQUATOR TOWN

Our first sight of Tembinok' was a matter of concern, almost alarm, to my whole party.  We
had a favour to seek; we must approach in the proper courtly attitude of a suitor; and must
either please him or fail in the main purpose of our voyage.  It was our wish to land and live
in Apemama, and see more near at hand the odd character of the man and the odd (or rather ancient)
condition of his island. In all other isles of the South Seas a white man may land with his
chest, and set up house for a lifetime, if he choose, and if he have the money or the trade;
no hindrance is conceivable.  But Apemama is a close island, lying there in the sea with closed
doors; the king himself, like a vigilant officer, ready at the wicket to scrutinise and reject
intrenching visitors.  Hence the attraction of our enterprise; not merely because it was a
little difficult, but because this social quarantine, a curiosity in itself, has been the preservative
of others.

Tembinok', like most tyrants, is a conservative; like many conservatives, he eagerly welcomes
new ideas, and, except in the field of politics, leans to practical reform.  When the missionaries
came, professing a knowledge of the truth, he readily received them; attended their worship,
acquired the accomplishment of public prayer, and made himself a student at their feet.  It
is thus--it is by the cultivation of similar passing chances--that he has learned to read,
to write, to cipher, and to speak his queer, personal English, so different from ordinary 'Beach
de Mar,' so much more obscure, expressive, and condensed.  His education attended to, he found
time to become critical of the new inmates. Like Nakaeia of Makin, he is an admirer of silence
in the island; broods over it like a great ear; has spies who report daily; and had rather
his subjects sang than talked.  The service, and in particular the sermon, were thus sure to
become offences:  'Here, in my island, I 'peak,' he once observed to me.  'My chieps no 'peak--do
what I talk.'  He looked at the missionary, and what did he see?  'See Kanaka 'peak in a big
outch!' he cried, with a strong ring of sarcasm.  Yet he endured the subversive spectacle,
and might even have continued to endure it, had not a fresh point arisen.  He looked again,
to employ his own figure; and the Kanaka was no longer speaking, he was doing worse--he was
building a copra-house.  The king was touched in his chief interests; revenue and prerogative
were threatened.  He considered besides (and some think with him) that trade is incompatible
with the missionary claims.  'Tuppoti mitonary think "good man":  very good.  Tuppoti he think
"cobra":  no good.  I send him away ship.'  Such was his abrupt history of the evangelist in
Apemama.

Similar deportations are common:  'I send him away ship' is the epitaph of not a few, his majesty
paying the exile's fare to the next place of call.  For instance, being passionately fond of
European food, he has several times added to his household a white cook, and one after another
these have been deported.  They, on their side, swear they were not paid their wages; he, on
his, that they robbed and swindled him beyond endurance:  both perhaps justly.  A more important
case was that of an agent, despatched (as I heard the story) by a firm of merchants to worm
his way into the king's good graces, become, if possible, premier, and handle the copra in
the interest of his employers.  He obtained authority to land, practised his fascinations,
was patiently listened to by Tembinok', supposed himself on the highway to success; and behold!
when the next ship touched at Apemama, the would-be premier was flung into a boat--had on board--his
fare paid, and so good-bye. But it is needless to multiply examples; the proof of the pudding
is in the eating.  When we came to Apemama, of so many white men who have scrambled for a place
in that rich market, one remained--a silent, sober, solitary, niggardly recluse, of whom the
king remarks, 'I think he good; he no 'peak.'

I was warned at the outset we might very well fail in our design: yet never dreamed of what
proved to be the fact, that we should be left four-and-twenty hours in suspense and come within
an ace of ultimate rejection.  Captain Reid had primed himself; no sooner was the king on board,
and the Hennetti question amicably settled, than he proceeded to express my request and give
an abstract of my claims and virtues.  The gammon about Queen Victoria's son might do for Butaritari;
it was out of the question here; and I now figured as 'one of the Old Men of England,' a person
of deep knowledge, come expressly to visit Tembinok's dominion, and eager to report upon it
to the no less eager Queen Victoria.  The king made no shadow of an answer, and presently began
upon a different subject. We might have thought that he had not heard, or not understood; only
that we found ourselves the subject of a constant study.  As we sat at meals, he took us in
series and fixed upon each, for near a minute at a time, the same hard and thoughtful stare.
As he thus looked he seemed to forget himself, the subject and the company, and to become absorbed
in the process of his thought; the look was wholly impersonal; I have seen the same in the
eyes of portrait- painters.  The counts upon which whites have been deported are mainly four:
cheating Tembinok', meddling overmuch with copra, which is the source of his wealth, and one
of the sinews of his power, 'PEAKING, and political intrigue.  I felt guiltless upon all; but
how to show it?  I would not have taken copra in a gift: how to express that quality by my
dinner-table bearing?  The rest of the party shared my innocence and my embarrassment.  They
shared also in my mortification when after two whole meal-times and the odd moments of an afternoon
devoted to this reconnoitring, Tembinok' took his leave in silence.  Next morning, the same
undisguised study, the same silence, was resumed; and the second day had come to its maturity
before I was informed abruptly that I had stood the ordeal.  'I look your eye.  You good man.
You no lie,' said the king:  a doubtful compliment to a writer of romance. Later he explained
he did not quite judge by the eye only, but the mouth as well.  'Tuppoti I see man,' he explained.
'I no tavvy good man, bad man.  I look eye, look mouth.  Then I tavvy.  Look EYE, look mouth,'
he repeated.  And indeed in our case the mouth had the most to do with it, and it was by our
talk that we gained admission to the island; the king promising himself (and I believe really
amassing) a vast amount of useful knowledge ere we left.

The terms of our admission were as follows:  We were to choose a site, and the king should
there build us a town.  His people should work for us, but the king only was to give them orders.
One of his cooks should come daily to help mine, and to learn of him.  In case our stores ran
out, he would supply us, and be repaid on the return of the Equator.  On the other hand, he
was to come to meals with us when so inclined; when he stayed at home, a dish was to be sent
him from our table; and I solemnly engaged to give his subjects no liquor or money (both of
which they are forbidden to possess) and no tobacco, which they were to receive only from the
royal hand.  I think I remember to have protested against the stringency of this last article;
at least, it was relaxed, and when a man worked for me I was allowed to give him a pipe of
tobacco on the premises, but none to take away.

The site of Equator City--we named our city for the schooner--was soon chosen.  The immediate
shores of the lagoon are windy and blinding; Tembinok' himself is glad to grope blue-spectacled
on his terrace; and we fled the neighbourhood of the red conjunctiva, the suppurating eyeball,
and the beggar who pursues and beseeches the passing foreigner for eye wash.  Behind the town
the country is diversified; here open, sandy, uneven, and dotted with dwarfish palms; here
cut up with taro trenches, deep and shallow, and, according to the growth of the plants, presenting
now the appearance of a sandy tannery, now of an alleyed and green garden. A path leads towards
the sea, mounting abruptly to the main level of the island--twenty or even thirty feet, although
Findlay gives five; and just hard by the top of the rise, where the coco-palms begin to be
well grown, we found a grove of pandanus, and a piece of soil pleasantly covered with green
underbush.  A well was not far off under a rustic well-house; nearer still, in a sandy cup
of the land, a pond where we might wash our clothes.  The place was out of the wind, out of
the sun, and out of sight of the village. It was shown to the king, and the town promised for
the morrow.

The morrow came, Mr. Osbourne landed, found nothing done, and carried his complaint to Tembinok'.
He heard it, rose, called for a Winchester, stepped without the royal palisade, and fired two
shots in the air.  A shot in the air is the first Apemama warning; it has the force of a proclamation
in more loquacious countries; and his majesty remarked agreeably that it would make his labourers
'mo' bright.'  In less than thirty minutes, accordingly, the men had mustered, the work was
begun, and we were told that we might bring our baggage when we pleased.

It was two in the afternoon ere the first boat was beached, and the long procession of chests
and crates and sacks began to straggle through the sandy desert towards Equator Town.  The
grove of pandanus was practically a thing of the past.  Fire surrounded and smoke rose in the
green underbush.  In a wide circuit the axes were still crashing.  Those very advantages for
which the place was chosen, it had been the king's first idea to abolish; and in the midst
of this devastation there stood already a good-sized maniap' and a small closed house.  A mat
was spread near by for Tembinok'; here he sat superintending, in cardinal red, a pith helmet
on his head, a meerschaum pipe in his mouth, a wife stretched at his back with custody of the
matches and tobacco.  Twenty or thirty feet in front of him the bulk of the workers squatted
on the ground; some of the bush here survived and in this the commons sat nearly to their shoulders,
and presented only an arc of brown faces, black heads, and attentive eyes fixed on his majesty.
Long pauses reigned, during which the subjects stared and the king smoked. Then Tembinok' would
raise his voice and speak shrilly and briefly. There was never a response in words; but if
the speech were jesting, there came by way of answer discreet, obsequious laughter- -such laughter
as we hear in schoolrooms; and if it were practical, the sudden uprising and departure of the
squad.  Twice they so disappeared, and returned with further elements of the city:  a second
house and a second maniap'.  It was singular to spy, far off through the coco stems, the silent
oncoming of the maniap', at first (it seemed) swimming spontaneously in the air--but on a nearer
view betraying under the eaves many score of moving naked legs.  In all the affair servile
obedience was no less remarkable than servile deliberation.  The gang had here mustered by
the note of a deadly weapon; the man who looked on was the unquestioned master of their lives;
and except for civility, they bestirred themselves like so many American hotel clerks.  The
spectator was aware of an unobtrusive yet invincible inertia, at which the skipper of a trading
dandy might have torn his hair.

Yet the work was accomplished.  By dusk, when his majesty withdrew, the town was founded and
complete, a new and ruder Amphion having called it from nothing with three cracks of a rifle.
And the next morning the same conjurer obliged us with a further miracle:  a mystic rampart
fencing us, so that the path which ran by our doors became suddenly impassable, the inhabitants
who had business across the isle must fetch a wide circuit, and we sat in the midst in a transparent
privacy, seeing, seen, but unapproachable, like bees in a glass hive.  The outward and visible
sign of this glamour was no more than a few ragged coco-leaf garlands round the stems of the
outlying palms; but its significance reposed on the tremendous sanction of the tapu and the
guns of Tembinok'.

We made our first meal that night in the improvised city, where we were to stay two months,
and which--so soon as we had done with it- -was to vanish in a day as it appeared, its elements
returning whence they came, the tapu raised, the traffic on the path resumed, the sun and the
moon peering in vain between the palm-trees for the bygone work, the wind blowing over an empty
site.  Yet the place, which is now only an episode in some memories, seemed to have been built,
and to be destined to endure, for years.  It was a busy hamlet.  One of the maniap's we made
our dining-room, one the kitchen.  The houses we reserved for sleeping.  They were on the admirable
Apemama plan:  out and away the best house in the South Seas; standing some three feet above
the ground on posts; the sides of woven flaps, which can be raised to admit light and air,
or lowered to shut out the wind and the rain:  airy, healthy, clean, and watertight.  We had
a hen of a remarkable kind:  almost unique in my experience, being a hen that occasionally
laid eggs.  Not far off, Mrs. Stevenson tended a garden of salad and shalots.  The salad was
devoured by the hen--which was her bane.  The shalots were served out a leaf at a time, and
welcomed and relished like peaches.  Toddy and green cocoa-nuts were brought us daily.  We
once had a present of fish from the king, and once of a turtle. Sometimes we shot so-called
plover along on the shore, sometimes wild chicken in the bush.  The rest of our diet was from tins.

Our occupations were very various.  While some of the party would be away sketching, Mr. Osbourne
and I hammered away at a novel.  We read Gibbon and Carlyle aloud; we blew on flageolets, we
strummed on guitars; we took photographs by the light of the sun, the moon, and flash-powder;
sometimes we played cards.  Pot-hunting engaged a part of our leisure.  I have myself passed
afternoons in the exciting but innocuous pursuit of winged animals with a revolver; and it
was fortunate there were better shots of the party, and fortunate the king could lend us a
more suitable weapon, in the form of an excellent fowling-piece, or our spare diet had been
sparer still.

Night was the time to see our city, after the moon was up, after the lamps were lighted, and
so long as the fire sparkled in the cook-house.  We suffered from a plague of flies and mosquitoes,
comparable to that of Egypt; our dinner-table (lent, like all our furniture, by the king) must
be enclosed in a tent of netting, our citadel and refuge; and this became all luminous, and
bulged and beaconed under the eaves, like the globe of some monstrous lamp under the margin
of its shade.  Our cabins, the sides being propped at a variety of inclinations, spelled out
strange, angular patterns of brightness.  In his roofed and open kitchen, Ah Fu was to be seen
by lamp and firelight, dabbling among pots.  Over all, there fell in the season an extraordinary
splendour of mellow moonshine. The sand sparkled as with the dust of diamonds; the stars had
vanished.  At intervals, a dusky night-bird, slow and low flying, passed in the colonnade of
the tree stems and uttered a hoarse croaking cry.

CHAPTER III--THE KING OF APEMAMA:  THE PALACE OF MANY WOMEN

The palace, or rather the ground which it includes, is several acres in extent.  A terrace
encloses it toward the lagoon; on the side of the land, a palisade with several gates.  These
are scarce intended for defence; a man, if he were strong, might easily pluck down the palisade;
he need not be specially active to leap from the beach upon the terrace.  There is no parade
of guards, soldiers, or weapons; the armoury is under lock and key; and the only sentinels
are certain inconspicuous old women lurking day and night before the gates.  By day, these
crones were often engaged in boiling syrup or the like household occupation; by night, they
lay ambushed in the shadow or crouched along the palisade, filling the office of eunuchs to
this harem, sole guards upon a tyrant life.

Female wardens made a fit outpost for this palace of many women. Of the number of the king's
wives I have no guess; and but a loose idea of their function.  He himself displayed embarrassment
when they were referred to as his wives, called them himself 'my pamily,' and explained they
were his 'cutcheons'--cousins.  We distinguished four of the crowd:  the king's mother; his
sister, a grave, trenchant woman, with much of her brother's intelligence; the queen proper,
to whom (and to whom alone) my wife was formally presented; and the favourite of the hour,
a pretty, graceful girl, who sat with the king daily, and once (when he shed tears) consoled
him with caresses.  I am assured that even with her his relations are platonic.  In the background
figured a multitude of ladies, the lean, the plump, and the elephantine, some in sacque frocks,
some in the hairbreadth ridi; high-born and low, slave and mistress; from the queen to the
scullion, from the favourite to the scraggy sentries at the palisade.  Not all of these of
course are of 'my pamily,'--many are mere attendants; yet a surprising number shared the responsibility
of the king's trust.  These were key-bearers, treasurers, wardens of the armoury, the napery,
and the stores. Each knew and did her part to admiration.  Should anything be required--a particular
gun, perhaps, or a particular bolt of stuff,--the right queen was summoned; she came bringing
the right chest, opened it in the king's presence, and displayed her charge in perfect preservation--the
gun cleaned and oiled, the goods duly folded.  Without delay or haste, and with the minimum
of speech, the whole great establishment turned on wheels like a machine. Nowhere have I seen
order more complete and pervasive.  And yet I was always reminded of Norse tales of trolls
and ogres who kept their hearts buried in the ground for the mere safety, and must confide
the secret to their wives.  For these weapons are the life of Tembinok'.  He does not aim at
popularity; but drives and braves his subjects, with a simplicity of domination which it is
impossible not to admire, hard not to sympathise with.  Should one out of so many prove faithless,
should the armoury be secretly unlocked, should the crones have dozed by the palisade and the
weapons find their way unseen into the village, revolution would be nearly certain, death the
most probable result, and the spirit of the tyrant of Apemama flit to rejoin his predecessors
of Mariki and Tapituea.  Yet those whom he so trusts are all women, and all rivals.

There is indeed a ministry and staff of males:  cook, steward, carpenter, and supercargoes:
the hierarchy of a schooner.  The spies, 'his majesty's daily papers,' as we called them, come
every morning to report, and go again.  The cook and steward are concerned with the table only.
The supercargoes, whose business it is to keep tally of the copra at three pounds a month and
a percentage, are rarely in the palace; and two at least are in the other islands.  The carpenter,
indeed, shrewd and jolly old Rubam-- query, Reuben?--promoted on my last visit to the greater
dignity of governor, is daily present, altering, extending, embellishing, pursuing the endless
series of the king's inventions; and his majesty will sometimes pass an afternoon watching
and talking with Rubam at his work.  But the males are still outsiders; none seems to be armed,
none is entrusted with a key; by dusk they are all usually departed from the palace; and the
weight of the monarchy and of the monarch's life reposes unshared on the women.

Here is a household unlike, indeed, to one of ours; more unlike still to the Oriental harem:
that of an elderly childless man, his days menaced, dwelling alone amid a bevy of women of
all ages, ranks, and relationships,--the mother, the sister, the cousin, the legitimate wife,
the concubine, the favourite, the eldest born, and she of yesterday; he, in their midst, the
only master, the only male, the sole dispenser of honours, clothes, and luxuries, the sole
mark of multitudinous ambitions and desires.  I doubt if you could find a man in Europe so
bold as to attempt this piece of tact and government.  And seemingly Tembinok' himself had
trouble in the beginning.  I hear of him shooting at a wife for some levity on board a schooner.
Another, on some more serious offence, he slew outright; he exposed her body in an open box,
and (to make the warning more memorable) suffered it to putrefy before the palace gate.  Doubtless
his growing years have come to his assistance; for upon so large a scale it is more easy to
play the father than the husband.  And to-day, at least to the eye of a stranger, all seems
to go smoothly, and the wives to be proud of their trust, proud of their rank, and proud of
their cunning lord.

I conceived they made rather a hero of the man.  A popular master in a girls' school might,
perhaps, offer a figure of his preponderating station.  But then the master does not eat, sleep,
live, and wash his dirty linen in the midst of his admirers; he escapes, he has a room of his
own, he leads a private life; if he had nothing else, he has the holidays, and the more unhappy
Tembinok' is always on the stage and on the stretch.

In all my coming and going, I never heard him speak harshly or express the least displeasure.
An extreme, rather heavy, benignity--the benignity of one sure to be obeyed--marked his demeanour;
so that I was at times reminded of Samual Richardson in his circle of admiring women.  The
wives spoke up and seemed to volunteer opinions, like our wives at home--or, say, like doting
but respectable aunts.  Altogether, I conclude that he rules his seraglio much more by art
than terror; and those who give a different account (and who have none of them enjoyed my opportunities
of observation) perhaps failed to distinguish between degrees of rank, between 'my pamily'
and the hangers-on, laundresses, and prostitutes.

A notable feature is the evening game of cards when lamps are set forth upon the terrace, and
'I and my pamily' play for tobacco by the hour.  It is highly characteristic of Tembinok' that
he must invent a game for himself; highly characteristic of his worshipping household that
they should swear by the absurd invention.  It is founded on poker, played with the honours
out of many packs, and inconceivably dreary.  But I have a passion for all games, studied it,
and am supposed to be the only white who ever fairly grasped its principle:  a fact for which
the wives (with whom I was not otherwise popular) admired me with acclamation.  It was impossible
to be deceived; this was a genuine feeling:  they were proud of their private game, had been
cut to the quick by the want of interest shown in it by others, and expanded under the flattery
of my attention.  Tembinok' puts up a double stake, and receives in return two hands to choose
from:  a shallow artifice which the wives (in all these years) have not yet fathomed.  He himself,
when talking with me privately, made not the least secret that he was secure of winning; and
it was thus he explained his recent liberality on board the Equator.  He let the wives buy
their own tobacco, which pleased them at the moment.  He won it back at cards, which made him
once more, and without fresh expense, that which he ought to be,--the sole fount of all indulgences.
And he summed the matter up in that phrase with which he almost always concludes any account
of his policy:  'Mo' betta.'

The palace compound is laid with broken coral, excruciating to the eyes and the bare feet,
but exquisitely raked and weeded.  A score or more of buildings lie in a sort of street along
the palisade and scattered on the margin of the terrace; dwelling-houses for the wives and
the attendants, storehouses for the king's curios and treasures, spacious maniap's for feast
or council, some on pillars of wood, some on piers of masonry.  One was still in hand, a new
invention, the king's latest born:  a European frame-house built for coolness inside a lofty
maniap':  its roof planked like a ship's deck to be a raised, shady, and yet private promenade.
It was here the king spent hours with Rubam; here I would sometimes join them; the place had
a most singular appearance; and I must say I was greatly taken with the fancy, and joined with
relish in the counsels of the architects.

Suppose we had business with his majesty by day:  we strolled over the sand and by the dwarfish
palms, exchanged a 'Konamaori' with the crone on duty, and entered the compound.  The wide
sheet of coral glared before us deserted; all having stowed themselves in dark canvas from
the excess of room.  I have gone to and fro in that labyrinth of a place, seeking the king;
and the only breathing creature I could find was when I peered under the eaves of a maniap',
and saw the brawny body of one of the wives stretched on the floor, a naked Amazon plunged
in noiseless slumber.  If it were still the hour of the 'morning papers' the quest would be
more easy, the half-dozen obsequious, sly dogs squatting on the ground outside a house, crammed
as far as possible in its narrow shadow, and turning to the king a row of leering faces.  Tembinok'
would be within, the flaps of the cabin raised, the trade blowing through, hearing their report.
Like journalists nearer home, when the day's news were scanty, these would make the more of
it in words; and I have known one to fill up a barren morning with an imaginary conversation
of two dogs.  Sometimes the king deigns to laugh, sometimes to question or jest with them,
his voice sounding shrilly from the cabin.  By his side he may have the heir-apparent, Paul,
his nephew and adopted son, six years old, stark naked, and a model of young human beauty.
And there will always be the favourite and perhaps two other wives awake; four more lying supine
under mats and whelmed in slumber.  Or perhaps we came later, fell on a more private hour,
and found Tembinok' retired in the house with the favourite, an earthenware spittoon, a leaden
inkpot, and a commercial ledger.  In the last, lying on his belly, he writes from day to day
the uneventful history of his reign; and when thus employed he betrayed a touch of fretfulness
on interruption with which I was well able to sympathise.  The royal annalist once read me
a page or so, translating as he went; but the passage being genealogical, and the author boggling
extremely in his version, I own I have been sometimes better entertained.  Nor does he confine
himself to prose, but touches the lyre, too, in his leisure moments, and passes for the chief
bard of his kingdom, as he is its sole public character, leading architect, and only merchant.

His competence, however, does not reach to music; and his verses, when they are ready, are
taught to a professional musician, who sets them and instructs the chorus.  Asked what his
songs were about, Tembinok' replied, 'Sweethearts and trees and the sea.  Not all the same
true, all the same lie.'  For a condensed view of lyrical poetry (except that he seems to have
forgot the stars and flowers) this would be hard to mend.  These multifarious occupations bespeak
(in a native and an absolute prince) unusual activity of mind.

The palace court at noon is a spot to be remembered with awe, the visitor scrambling there,
on the loose stones, through a splendid nightmare of light and heat; but the sweep of the wind
delivers it from flies and mosquitoes; and with the set of sun it became heavenly.  I remember
it best on moonless nights.  The air was like a bath of milk.  Countless shining stars were
overhead, the lagoon paved with them.  Herds of wives squatted by companies on the gravel,
softly chatting.  Tembinok' would doff his jacket, and sit bare and silent, perhaps meditating
songs; the favourite usually by him, silent also.  Meanwhile in the midst of the court, the
palace lanterns were being lit and marshalled in rank upon the ground--six or eight square
yards of them; a sight that gave one strange ideas of the number of 'my pamily':  such a sight
as may be seen about dusk in a corner of some great terminus at home.  Presently these fared
off into all corners of the precinct, lighting the last labours of the day, lighting one after
another to their rest that prodigious company of women.  A few lingered in the middle of the
court for the card-party, and saw the honours shuffled and dealt, and Tembinok' deliberating
between his two; hands, and the queens losing their tobacco.  Then these also were scattered
and extinguished; and their place was taken by a great bonfire, the night-light of the palace.
When this was no more, smaller fires burned likewise at the gates.  These were tended by the
crones, unseen, unsleeping--not always unheard.  Should any approach in the dark hours, a guarded
alert made the circuit of the palisade; each sentry signalled her neighbour with a stone; the
rattle of falling pebbles passed and died away; and the wardens of Tembinok' crouched in their
places silent as before.

CHAPTER IV--THE KING OF APEMAMA:  EQUATOR TOWN AND THE PALACE

Five persons were detailed to wait upon us.  Uncle Parker, who brought us toddy and green nuts,
was an elderly, almost an old man, with the spirits, the industry, and the morals of a boy
of ten. His face was ancient, droll, and diabolical, the skin stretched over taut sinews, like
a sail on the guide-rope; and he smiled with every muscle of his head.  His nuts must be counted
every day, or he would deceive us in the tale; they must be daily examined, or some would prove
to be unhusked; nothing but the king's name, and scarcely that, would hold him to his duty.
After his toils were over he was given a pipe, matches, and tobacco, and sat on the floor in
the maniap' to smoke.  He would not seem to move from his position, and yet every day, when
the things fell to be returned the plug had disappeared; he had found the means to conceal
it in the roof, whence he could radiantly produce it on the morrow. Although this piece of
legerdemain was performed regularly before three or four pairs of eyes, we could never catch
him in the fact; although we searched after he was gone, we could never find the tobacco. 
Such were the diversions of Uncle Parker, a man nearing sixty.  But he was punished according
unto his deeds:  Mrs. Stevenson took a fancy to paint him, and the sufferings of the sitter
were beyond description.

Three lasses came from the palace to do our washing and racket with Ah Fu.  They were of the
lowest class, hangers-on kept for the convenience of merchant skippers, probably low-born,
perhaps out- islanders, with little refinement whether of manner or appearance, but likely
and jolly enough wenches in their way.  We called one Guttersnipe, for you may find her image
in the slums of any city; the same lean, dark-eyed, eager, vulgar face, the same sudden, hoarse
guffaws, the same forward and yet anxious manner, as with a tail of an eye on the policeman:
only the policeman here was a live king, and his truncheon a rifle.  I doubt if you could find
anywhere out of the islands, or often there, the parallel of Fatty, a mountain of a girl, who
must have weighed near as many stones as she counted summers, could have given a good account
of a life- guardsman, had the face of a baby, and applied her vast mechanical forces almost
exclusively to play.  But they were all three of the same merry spirit.  Our washing was conducted
in a game of romps; and they fled and pursued, and splashed, and pelted, and rolled each other
in the sand, and kept up a continuous noise of cries and laughter like holiday children.  Indeed,
and however strange their own function in that austere establishment, were they not escaped
for the day from the largest and strictest Ladies' School in the South Seas?

Our fifth attendant was no less a person than the royal cook.  He was strikingly handsome both
in face and body, lazy as a slave, and insolent as a butcher's boy.  He slept and smoked on
our premises in various graceful attitudes; but so far from helping Ah Fu, he was not at the
pains to watch him.  It may be said of him that he came to learn, and remained to teach; and
his lessons were at times difficult to stomach.  For example, he was sent to fill a bucket
from the well.  About half-way he found my wife watering her onions, changed buckets with her,
and leaving her the empty, returned to the kitchen with the full.  On another occasion he was
given a dish of dumplings for the king, was told they must be eaten hot, and that he should
carry them as fast as possible.  The wretch set off at the rate of about a mile in the hour,
head in air, toes turned out.  My patience, after a month of trial, failed me at the sight.
I pursued, caught him by his two big shoulders, and thrusting him before me, ran with him down
the hill, over the sands, and through the applauding village, to the Speak House, where the
king was then holding a pow-wow.  He had the impudence to pretend he was internally injured
by my violence, and to profess serious apprehensions for his life.

All this we endured; for the ways of Tembinok' are summary, and I was not yet ripe to take
a hand in the man's death.  But in the meanwhile, here was my unfortunate China boy slaving
for the pair, and presently he fell sick.  I was now in the position of Cimondain Lantenac,
and indeed all the characters in Quatre-Vingt-Treize:  to continue to spare the guilty, I must
sacrifice the innocent.  I took the usual course and tried to save both, with the usual consequence
of failure.  Well rehearsed, I went down to the palace, found the king alone, and obliged him
with a vast amount of rigmarole.  The cook was too old to learn:  I feared he was not making
progress; how if we had a boy instead?--boys were more teachable.  It was all in vain; the
king pierced through my disguises to the root of the fact; saw that the cook had desperately
misbehaved; and sat a while glooming.  'I think he tavvy too much,' he said at last, with grim
concision; and immediately turned the talk to other subjects.  The same day another high officer,
the steward, appeared in the cook's place, and, I am bound to say, proved civil and industrious.

As soon as I left, it seems the king called for a Winchester and strolled outside the palisade,
awaiting the defaulter.  That day Tembinok' wore the woman's frock; as like as not, his make-up
was completed by a pith helmet and blue spectacles.  Conceive the glaring stretch of sandhills,
the dwarf palms with their noon-day shadows, the line of the palisade, the crone sentries (each
by a small clear fire) cooking syrup on their posts--and this chimaera waiting with his deadly
engine.  To him, enter at last the cook, strolling down the sandhill from Equator Town, listless,
vain and graceful; with no thought of alarm.  As soon as he was well within range, the travestied
monarch fired the six shots over his head, at his feet, and on either hand of him:  the second
Apemama warning, startling in itself, fatal in significance, for the next time his majesty
will aim to hit.  I am told the king is a crack shot; that when he aims to kill, the grave
may be got ready; and when he aims to miss, misses by so near a margin that the culprit tastes
six times the bitterness of death.  The effect upon the cook I had an opportunity of seeing
for myself.  My wife and I were returning from the sea-side of the island, when we spied one
coming to meet us at a very quick, disordered pace, between a walk and a run.  As we drew nearer
we saw it was the cook, beside himself with some emotion, his usual warm, mulatto colour declined
into a bluish pallor.  He passed us without word or gesture, staring on us with the face of
a Satan, and plunged on across the wood for the unpeopled quarter of the island and the long,
desert beach, where he might rage to and fro unseen, and froth out the vials of his wrath,
fear, and humiliation.  Doubtless in the curses that he there uttered to the bursting surf
and the tropic birds, the name of the Kaupoi--the rich man--was frequently repeated.  I had
made him the laughing-stock of the village in the affair of the king's dumplings; I had brought
him by my machinations into disgrace and the immediate jeopardy of his days; last, and perhaps
bitterest, he had found me there by the way to spy upon him in the hour of his disorder.

Time passed, and we saw no more of him.  The season of the full moon came round, when a man
thinks shame to lie sleeping; and I continued until late--perhaps till twelve or one in the
morning--to walk on the bright sand and in the tossing shadow of the palms.  I played, as I
wandered, on a flageolet, which occupied much of my attention; the fans overhead rattled in
the wind with a metallic chatter; and a bare foot falls at any rate almost noiseless on that
shifting soil.  Yet when I got back to Equator Town, where all the lights were out, and my
wife (who was still awake, and had been looking forth) asked me who it was that followed me,
I thought she spoke in jest.  'Not at all,' she said.  'I saw him twice as you passed, walking
close at your heels.  He only left you at the corner of the maniap'; he must be still behind
the cook-house.' Thither I ran--like a fool, without any weapon--and came face to face with
the cook.  He was within my tapu-line, which was death in itself; he could have no business
there at such an hour but either to steal or to kill; guilt made him timorous; and he turned
and fled before me in the night in silence.  As he went I kicked him in that place where honour
lies, and he gave tongue faintly like an injured mouse.  At the moment I daresay he supposed
it was a deadly instrument that touched him.

What had the man been after?  I have found my music better qualified to scatter than to collect
an audience.  Amateur as I was, I could not suppose him interested in my reading of the Carnival
of Venice, or that he would deny himself his natural rest to follow my variations on The Ploughboy.
And whatever his design, it was impossible I should suffer him to prowl by night among the
houses.  A word to the king, and the man were not, his case being far beyond pardon.  But it
is one thing to kill a man yourself; quite another to bear tales behind his back and have him
shot by a third party; and I determined to deal with the fellow in some method of my own. 
I told Ah Fu the story, and bade him fetch me the cook whenever he should find him.  I had
supposed this would be a matter of difficulty; and far from that, he came of his own accord:
an act really of desperation, since his life hung by my silence, and the best he could hope
was to be forgotten.  Yet he came with an assured countenance, volunteered no apology or explanation,
complained of injuries received, and pretended he was unable to sit down.  I suppose I am the
weakest man God made; I had kicked him in the least vulnerable part of his big carcase; my
foot was bare, and I had not even hurt my foot.  Ah Fu could not control his merriment.  On
my side, knowing what must be the nature of his apprehensions, I found in so much impudence
a kind of gallantry, and secretly admired the man.  I told him I should say nothing of his
night's adventure to the king; that I should still allow him, when he had an errand, to come
within my tapu-line by day; but if ever I found him there after the set of the sun I would
shoot him on the spot; and to the proof showed him a revolver.  He must have been incredibly
relieved; but he showed no sign of it, took himself off with his usual dandy nonchalance, and
was scarce seen by us again.

These five, then, with the substitution of the steward for the cook, came and went, and were
our only visitors.  The circle of the tapu held at arm's-length the inhabitants of the village.
As for 'my pamily,' they dwelt like nuns in their enclosure; only once have I met one of them
abroad, and she was the king's sister, and the place in which I found her (the island infirmary)
was very likely privileged.  There remains only the king to be accounted for.  He would come
strolling over, always alone, a little before a meal-time, take a chair, and talk and eat with
us like an old family friend.  Gilbertine etiquette appears defective on the point of leave-taking.
It may be remembered we had trouble in the matter with Karaiti; and there was something childish
and disconcerting in Tembinok's abrupt 'I want go home now,' accompanied by a kind of ducking
rise, and followed by an unadorned retreat.  It was the only blot upon his manners, which were
otherwise plain, decent, sensible, and dignified.  He never stayed long nor drank much, and
copied our behaviour where he perceived it to differ from his own. Very early in the day, for
instance, he ceased eating with his knife.  It was plain he was determined in all things to
wring profit from our visit, and chiefly upon etiquette.  The quality of his white visitors
puzzled and concerned him; he would bring up name after name, and ask if its bearer were a
'big chiep,' or even a 'chiep' at all--which, as some were my excellent good friends, and none
were actually born in the purple, became at times embarrassing.  He was struck to learn that
our classes were distinguishable by their speech, and that certain words (for instance) were
tapu on the quarter-deck of a man-of-war; and he begged in consequence that we should watch
and correct him on the point.  We were able to assure him that he was beyond correction. His
vocabulary is apt and ample to an extraordinary degree.  God knows where he collected it, but
by some instinct or some accident he has avoided all profane or gross expressions.  'Obliged,'
'stabbed,' 'gnaw,' 'lodge,' 'power,' 'company,' 'slender,' 'smooth,' and 'wonderful,' are a
few of the unexpected words that enrich his dialect.  Perhaps what pleased him most was to
hear about saluting the quarter-deck of a man-of-war.  In his gratitude for this hint he became
fulsome.  'Schooner cap'n no tell me,' he cried; 'I think no tavvy!  You tavvy too much; tavvy
'teama', tavvy man-a-wa'.  I think you tavvy everything.' Yet he gravelled me often enough
with his perpetual questions; and the false Mr. Barlow stood frequently exposed before the
royal Sandford.  I remember once in particular.  We were showing the magic-lantern; a slide
of Windsor Castle was put in, and I told him there was the 'outch' of Victoreea.  'How many
pathom he high?' he asked, and I was dumb before him.  It was the builder, the indefatigable
architect of palaces, that spoke; collector though he was, he did not collect useless information;
and all his questions had a purpose.  After etiquette, government, law, the police, money,
and medicine were his chief interests--things vitally important to himself as a king and the
father of his people.  It was my part not only to supply new information, but to correct the
old.  'My patha he tell me,' or 'White man he tell me,' would be his constant beginning; 'You
think he lie?'  Sometimes I thought he did.  Tembinok' once brought me a difficulty of this
kind, which I was long of comprehending.  A schooner captain had told him of Captain Cook;
the king was much interested in the story; and turned for more information--not to Mr. Stephen's
Dictionary, not to the Britannica, but to the Bible in the Gilbert Island version (which consists
chiefly of the New Testament and the Psalms).  Here he sought long and earnestly; Paul he found,
and Festus and Alexander the coppersmith:  no word of Cook.  The inference was obvious:  the
explorer was a myth.  So hard it is, even for a man of great natural parts like Tembinok',
to grasp the ideas of a new society and culture.

CHAPTER V--KING AND COMMONS

We saw but little of the commons of the isle.  At first we met them at the well, where they
washed their linen and we drew water for the table.  The combination was distasteful; and,
having a tyrant at command, we applied to the king and had the place enclosed in our tapu.
It was one of the few favours which Tembinok' visibly boggled about granting, and it may be
conceived how little popular it made the strangers.  Many villagers passed us daily going afield;
but they fetched a wide circuit round our tapu, and seemed to avert their looks.  At times
we went ourselves into the village- -a strange place.  Dutch by its canals, Oriental by the
height and steepness of the roofs, which looked at dusk like temples; but we were rarely called
into a house:  no welcome, no friendship, was offered us; and of home life we had but the one
view:  the waking of a corpse, a frigid, painful scene:  the widow holding on her lap the cold,
bluish body of her husband, and now partaking of the refreshments which made the round of the
company, now weeping and kissing the pale mouth.  ('I fear you feel this affliction deeply,'
said the Scottish minister.  'Eh, sir, and that I do!' replied the widow.  'I've been greetin'
a' nicht; an' noo I'm just gaun to sup this bit parritch, and then I'll begin an' greet again.')
In our walks abroad I have always supposed the islanders avoided us, perhaps from distaste,
perhaps by order; and those whom we met we took generally by surprise.  The surface of the
isle is diversified with palm groves, thickets, and romantic dingles four feet deep, relics
of old taro plantation; and it is thus possible to stumble unawares on folk resting or hiding
from their work.  About pistol- shot from our township there lay a pond in the bottom of a
jungle; here the maids of the isle came to bathe, and were several times alarmed by our intrusion.
Not for them are the bright cold rivers of Tahiti or Upolu, not for them to splash and laugh
in the hour of the dusk with a villageful of gay companions; but to steal here solitary, to
crouch in a place like a cow-wallow, and wash (if that can be called washing) in lukewarm mud,
brown as their own skins. Other, but still rare, encounters occur to my memory.  I was several
times arrested by a tender sound in the bush of voices talking, soft as flutes and with quiet
intonations.  Hope told a flattering tale; I put aside the leaves; and behold! in place of
the expected dryads, a pair of all too solid ladies squatting over a clay pipe in the ungraceful
ridi.  The beauty of the voice and the eye was all that remained to those vast dames; but that
of the voice was indeed exquisite.  It is strange I should have never heard a more winning
sound of speech, yet the dialect should be one remarkable for violent, ugly, and outlandish
vocables; so that Tembinok' himself declared it made him weary, and professed to find repose
in talking English.

The state of this folk, of whom I saw so little, I can merely guess at.  The king himself explains
the situation with some art.  'No; I no pay them,' he once said.  'I give them tobacco.  They
work for me ALL THE SAME BROTHERS.'  It is true there was a brother once in Arden!  But we
prefer the shorter word.  They bear every servile mark,--levity like a child's, incurable idleness,
incurious content.  The insolence of the cook was a trait of his own; not so his levity, which
he shared with the innocent Uncle Parker.  With equal unconcern both gambolled under the shadow
of the gallows, and took liberties with death that might have surprised a careless student
of man's nature.  I wrote of Parker that he behaved like a boy of ten:  what was he else, being
a slave of sixty?  He had passed all his years in school, fed, clad, thought for, commanded;
and had grown familiar and coquetted with the fear of punishment. By terror you may drive men
long, but not far.  Here, in Apemama, they work at the constant and the instant peril of their
lives; and are plunged in a kind of lethargy of laziness.  It is common to see one go afield
in his stiff mat ungirt, so that he walks elbows-in like a trussed fowl; and whatsoever his
right hand findeth to do, the other must be off duty holding on his clothes.  It is common
to see two men carrying between them on a pole a single bucket of water.  To make two bites
of a cherry is good enough:  to make two burthens of a soldier's kit, for a distance of perhaps
half a furlong, passes measure.  Woman, being the less childish animal, is less relaxed by
servile conditions.  Even in the king's absence, even when they were alone, I have seen Apemama
women work with constancy.  But the outside to be hoped for in a man is that he may attack
his task in little languid fits, and lounge between-whiles. So I have seen a painter, with
his pipe going, and a friend by the studio fireside.  You might suppose the race to lack civility,
even vitality, until you saw them in the dance.  Night after night, and sometimes day after
day, they rolled out their choruses in the great Speak House--solemn andantes and adagios,
led by the clapped hand, and delivered with an energy that shook the roof.  The time was not
so slow, though it was slow for the islands; but I have chosen rather to indicate the effect
upon the hearer.  Their music had a church-like character from near at hand, and seemed to
European ears more regular than the run of island music.  Twice I have heard a discord regularly
solved.  From farther off, heard at Equator Town for instance, the measures rose and fell and
crepitated like the barking of hounds in a distant kennel.

The slaves are certainly not overworked--children of ten do more without fatigue--and the Apemama
labourers have holidays, when the singing begins early in the afternoon.  The diet is hard;
copra and a sweetmeat of pounded pandanus are the only dishes I observed outside the palace;
but there seems no defect in quantity, and the king shares with them his turtles.  Three came
in a boat from Kuria during our stay; one was kept for the palace, one sent to us, one presented
to the village.  It is the habit of the islanders to cook the turtle in its carapace; we had
been promised the shells, and we asked a tapu on this foolish practice.  The face of Tembinok'
darkened and he answered nothing.  Hesitation in the question of the well I could understand,
for water is scarce on a low island; that he should refuse to interfere upon a point of cookery
was more than I had dreamed of; and I gathered (rightly or wrongly) that he was scrupulous
of touching in the least degree the private life and habits of his slaves.  So that even here,
in full despotism, public opinion has weight; even here, in the midst of slavery, freedom has
a corner.

Orderly, sober, and innocent, life flows in the isle from day to day as in a model plantation
under a model planter.  It is impossible to doubt the beneficence of that stern rule.  A curious
politeness, a soft and gracious manner, something effeminate and courtly, distinguishes the
islanders of Apemama; it is talked of by all the traders, it was felt even by residents so
little beloved as ourselves, and noticeable even in the cook, and even in that scoundrel's
hours of insolence.  The king, with his manly and plain bearing, stood out alone; you might
say he was the only Gilbert Islander in Apemama.  Violence, so common in Butaritari, seems
unknown.  So are theft and drunkenness.  I am assured the experiment has been made of leaving
sovereigns on the beach before the village; they lay there untouched.  In all our time on the
island I was but once asked for drink.  This was by a mighty plausible fellow, wearing European
clothes and speaking excellent English--Tamaiti his name, or, as the whites have now corrupted
it, 'Tom White':  one of the king's supercargoes at three pounds a month and a percentage,
a medical man besides, and in his private hours a wizard.  He found me one day in the outskirts
of the village, in a secluded place, hot and private, where the taro-pits are deep and the
plants high.  Here he buttonholed me, and, looking about him like a conspirator, inquired if
I had gin.

I told him I had.  He remarked that gin was forbidden, lauded the prohibition a while, and
then went on to explain that he was a doctor, or 'dogstar' as he pronounced the word, that
gin was necessary to him for his medical infusions, that he was quite out of it, and that he
would be obliged to me for some in a bottle.  I told him I had passed the king my word on landing;
but since his case was so exceptional, I would go down to the palace at once, and had no doubt
that Tembinok' would set me free.  Tom White was immediately overwhelmed with embarrassment
and terror, besought me in the most moving terms not to betray him, and fled my neighbourhood.
He had none of the cook's valour; it was weeks before he dared to meet my eye; and then only
by the order of the king and on particular business.

The more I viewed and admired this triumph of firm rule, the more I was haunted and troubled
by a problem, the problem (perhaps) of to- morrow for ourselves.  Here was a people protected
from all serious misfortune, relieved of all serious anxieties, and deprived of what we call
our liberty.  Did they like it? and what was their sentiment toward the ruler?  The first question
I could not of course ask, nor perhaps the natives answer.  Even the second was delicate; yet
at last, and under charming and strange circumstances, I found my opportunity to put it and
a man to reply. It was near the full of the moon, with a delicious breeze; the isle was bright
as day--to sleep would have been sacrilege; and I walked in the bush, playing my pipe.  It
must have been the sound of what I am pleased to call my music that attracted in my direction
another wanderer of the night.  This was a young man attired in a fine mat, and with a garland
on his hair, for he was new come from dancing and singing in the public hall; and his body,
his face, and his eyes were all of an enchanting beauty.  Every here and there in the Gilberts
youths are to be found of this absurd perfection; I have seen five of us pass half an hour
in admiration of a boy at Mariki; and Te Kop (my friend in the fine mat and garland) I had
already several times remarked, and long ago set down as the loveliest animal in Apemama. 
The philtre of admiration must be very strong, or these natives specially susceptible to its
effects, for I have scarce ever admired a person in the islands but what he has sought my particular
acquaintance.  So it was with Te Kop.  He led me to the ocean side; and for an hour or two
we sat smoking and talking on the resplendent sand and under the ineffable brightness of the
moon.  My friend showed himself very sensible of the beauty and amenity of the hour.  'Good
night! Good wind!' he kept exclaiming, and as he said the words he seemed to hug myself.  I
had long before invented such reiterated expressions of delight for a character (Felipe, in
the story of Olalla) intended to be partly bestial.  But there was nothing bestial in Te Kop;
only a childish pleasure in the moment.  He was no less pleased with his companion, or was
good enough to say so; honoured me, before he left, by calling me Te Kop; apostrophised me
as 'My name!' with an intonation exquisitely tender, laying his hand at the same time swiftly
on my knee; and after we had risen, and our paths began to separate in the bush, twice cried
to me with a sort of gentle ecstasy, 'I like you too much!'  From the beginning he had made
no secret of his terror of the king; would not sit down nor speak above a whisper till he had
put the whole breadth of the isle between himself and his monarch, then harmlessly asleep;
and even there, even within a stone-cast of the outer sea, our talk covered by the sound of
the surf and the rattle of the wind among the palms, continued to speak guardedly, softening
his silver voice (which rang loud enough in the chorus) and looking about him like a man in
fear of spies.  The strange thing is that I should have beheld him no more.  In any other island
in the whole South Seas, if I had advanced half as far with any native, he would have been
at my door next morning, bringing and expecting gifts.  But Te Kop vanished in the bush for
ever.  My house, of course, was unapproachable; but he knew where to find me on the ocean beach,
where I went daily.  I was the Kaupoi, the rich man; my tobacco and trade were known to be
endless:  he was sure of a present.  I am at a loss how to explain his behaviour, unless it
be supposed that he recalled with terror and regret a passage in our interview.  Here it is:

'The king, he good man?' I asked.

'Suppose he like you, he good man,' replied Te Kop:  'no like, no good.'

That is one way of putting it, of course.  Te Kop himself was probably no favourite, for he
scarce appealed to my judgment as a type of industry.  And there must be many others whom the
king (to adhere to the formula) does not like.  Do these unfortunates like the king?  Or is
not rather the repulsion mutual? and the conscientious Tembinok', like the conscientious Braxfield
before him, and many other conscientious rulers and judges before either, surrounded by a considerable
body of 'grumbletonians'?  Take the cook, for instance, when he passed us by, blue with rage
and terror.  He was very wroth with me; I think by all the old principles of human nature he
was not very well pleased with his sovereign.  It was the rich man he sought to waylay:  I
think it must have been by the turn of a hair that it was not the king he waylaid instead.
And the king gives, or seems to give, plenty of opportunities; day and night he goes abroad
alone, whether armed or not I can but guess; and the taro-patches, where his business must
so often carry him, seem designed for assassination.  The case of the cook was heavy indeed
to my conscience.  I did not like to kill my enemy at second-hand; but had I a right to conceal
from the king, who had trusted me, the dangerous secret character of his attendant?  And suppose
the king should fall, what would be the fate of the king's friends?  It was our opinion at
the time that we should pay dear for the closing of the well; that our breath was in the king's
nostrils; that if the king should by any chance be bludgeoned in a taro-patch, the philosophical
and musical inhabitants of Equator Town might lay aside their pleasant instruments, and betake
themselves to what defence they had, with a very dim prospect of success.  These speculations
were forced upon us by an incident which I am ashamed to betray.  The schooner H. L. Haseltine
(since capsized at sea, with the loss of eleven lives) put into Apemama in a good hour for
us, who had near exhausted our supplies.  The king, after his habit, spent day after day on
board; the gin proved unhappily to his taste; he brought a store of it ashore with him; and
for some time the sole tyrant of the isle was half-seas-over.  He was not drunk--the man is
not a drunkard, he has always stores of liquor at hand, which he uses with moderation,--but
he was muzzy, dull, and confused.  He came one day to lunch with us, and while the cloth was
being laid fell asleep in his chair.  His confusion, when he awoke and found he had been detected,
was equalled by our uneasiness.  When he was gone we sat and spoke of his peril, which we thought
to be in some degree our own; of how easily the man might be surprised in such a state by grumbletonians;
of the strange scenes that would follow--the royal treasures and stores at the mercy of the
rabble, the palace overrun, the garrison of women turned adrift.  And as we talked we were
startled by a gun-shot and a sudden, barbaric outcry.  I believe we all changed colour; but
it was only the king firing at a dog and the chorus striking up in the Speak House.  A day
or two later I learned the king was very sick; went down, diagnosed the case; and took at once
the highest medical degree by the exhibition of bicarbonate of soda.  Within the hour Richard
was himself again; and I found him at the unfinished house, enjoying the double pleasure of
directing Rubam and making a dinner of cocoa-nut dumplings, and all eagerness to have the formula
of this new sort of pain-killer--for pain-killer in the islands is the generic name of medicine.
So ended the king's modest spree and our anxiety.

On the face of things, I ought to say, loyalty appeared unshaken. When the schooner at last
returned for us, after much experience of baffling winds, she brought a rumour that Tebureimoa
had declared war on Apemama.  Tembinok' became a new man; his face radiant; his attitude, as
I saw him preside over a council of chiefs in one of the palace maniap's, eager as a boy's;
his voice sounding abroad, shrill and jubilant, over half the compound.  War is what he wants,
and here was his chance.  The English captain, when he flung his arms in the lagoon, had forbidden
him (except in one case) all military adventures in the future:  here was the case arrived.
All morning the council sat; men were drilled, arms were bought, the sound of firing disturbed
the afternoon; the king devised and communicated to me his plan of campaign, which was highly
elaborate and ingenious, but perhaps a trifle fine-spun for the rough and random vicissitudes
of war.  And in all this bustle the temper of the people appeared excellent, an unwonted animation
in every face, and even Uncle Parker burning with military zeal.

Of course it was a false alarm.  Tebureimoa had other fish to fry. The ambassador who accompanied
us on our return to Butaritari found him retired to a small island on the reef, in a huff with
the Old Men, a tiff with the traders, and more fear of insurrection at home than appetite for
wars abroad.  The plenipotentiary had been placed under my protection; and we solemnly saluted
when we met.  He proved an excellent fisherman, and caught bonito over the ship's side.  He
pulled a good oar, and made himself useful for a whole fiery afternoon, towing the becalmed
Equator off Mariki.  He went to his post and did no good.  He returned home again, having done
no harm.  O si sic omnes!

CHAPTER VI--THE KING OF APEMAMA:  DEVIL-WORK

The ocean beach of Apemama was our daily resort.  The coast is broken by shallow bays.  The
reef is detached, elevated, and includes a lagoon about knee-deep, the unrestful spending-basin
of the surf.  The beach is now of fine sand, now of broken coral.  The trend of the coast being
convex, scarce a quarter of a mile of it is to be seen at once; the land being so low, the
horizon appears within a stone-cast; and the narrow prospect enhances the sense of privacy.
Man avoids the place--even his footprints are uncommon; but a great number of birds hover and
pipe there fishing, and leave crooked tracks upon the sand.  Apart from these, the only sound
(and I was going to say the only society), is that of the breakers on the reef.

On each projection of the coast, the bank of coral clinkers immediately above the beach has
been levelled, and a pillar built, perhaps breast-high.  These are not sepulchral; all the
dead being buried on the inhabited side of the island, close to men's houses, and (what is
worse) to their wells.  I was told they were to protect the isle against inroads from the sea--divine
or diabolical martellos, probably sacred to Taburik, God of Thunder.

The bay immediately opposite Equator Town, which we called Fu Bay, in honour of our cook, was
thus fortified on either horn.  It was well sheltered by the reef, the enclosed water clear
and tranquil, the enclosing beach curved like a horseshoe, and both steep and broad.  The path
debouched about the midst of the re-entrant angle, the woods stopping some distance inland.
In front, between the fringe of the wood and the crown of the beach, there had been designed
a regular figure, like the court for some new variety of tennis, with borders of round stones
imbedded, and pointed at the angles with low posts, likewise of stone.  This was the king's
Pray Place.  When he prayed, what he prayed for, and to whom he addressed his supplications
I could never learn.  The ground was tapu.

In the angle, by the mouth of the path, stood a deserted maniap'. Near by there had been a
house before our coming, which was now transported and figured for the moment in Equator Town.
It had been, and it would be again when we departed, the residence of the guardian and wizard
of the spot--Tamaiti.  Here, in this lone place, within sound of the sea, he had his dwelling
and uncanny duties.  I cannot call to mind another case of a man living on the ocean side of
any open atoll; and Tamaiti must have had strong nerves, the greater confidence in his own
spells, or, what I believe to be the truth, an enviable scepticism.  Whether Tamaiti had any
guardianship of the Pray Place I never heard.  But his own particular chapel stood farther
back in the fringe of the wood.  It was a tree of respectable growth.  Around it there was
drawn a circle of stones like those that enclosed the Pray Place; in front, facing towards
the sea, a stone of a much greater size, and somewhat hollowed, like a piscina, stood close
against the trunk; in front of that again a conical pile of gravel.  In the hollow of what
I have called the piscina (though it proved to be a magic seat) lay an offering of green cocoa-nuts;
and when you looked up you found the boughs of the tree to be laden with strange fruit: palm-branches
elaborately plaited, and beautiful models of canoes, finished and rigged to the least detail.
The whole had the appearance of a mid-summer and sylvan Christmas-tree al fresco. Yet we were
already well enough acquainted in the Gilberts to recognise it, at the first sight, for a piece
of wizardry, or, as they say in the group, of Devil-work.

The plaited palms were what we recognised.  We had seen them before on Apaiang, the most christianised
of all these islands; where excellent Mr. Bingham lived and laboured and has left golden memories;
whence all the education in the northern Gilberts traces its descent; and where we were boarded
by little native Sunday- school misses in clean frocks, with demure faces, and singing hymns
as to the manner born.

Our experience of Devil-work at Apaiang had been as follows:- It chanced we were benighted
at the house of Captain Tierney.  My wife and I lodged with a Chinaman some half a mile away;
and thither Captain Reid and a native boy escorted us by torch-light.  On the way the torch
went out, and we took shelter in a small and lonely Christian chapel to rekindle it.  Stuck
in the rafters of the chapel was a branch of knotted palm.  'What is that?' I asked.  'O, that's
Devil-work,' said the Captain.  'And what is Devil-work?' I inquired.  'If you like, I'll show
you some when we get to Johnnie's,' he replied.  'Johnnie's' was a quaint little house upon
the crest of the beach, raised some three feet on posts, approached by stairs; part walled,
part trellised.  Trophies of advertisement- photographs were hung up within for decoration.
There was a table and a recess-bed, in which Mrs. Stevenson slept; while I camped on the matted
floor with Johnnie, Mrs. Johnnie, her sister, and the devil's own regiment of cockroaches.
Hither was summoned an old witch, who looked the part to horror.  The lamp was set on the floor;
the crone squatted on the threshold, a green palm-branch in her hand, the light striking full
on her aged features and picking out behind her, from the black night, timorous faces of spectators.
Our sorceress began with a chanted incantation; it was in the old tongue, for which I had no
interpreter; but ever and again there ran among the crowd outside that laugh which every traveller
in the islands learns so soon to recognise,--the laugh of terror. Doubtless these half-Christian
folk were shocked, these half- heathen folk alarmed.  Chench or Taburik thus invoked, we put
our questions; the witch knotted the leaves, here a leaf and there a leaf, plainly on some
arithmetical system; studied the result with great apparent contention of mind; and gave the
answers.  Sidney Colvin was in robust health and gone a journey; and we should have a fair
wind upon the morrow:  that was the result of our consultation, for which we paid a dollar.
The next day dawned cloudless and breathless; but I think Captain Reid placed a secret reliance
on the sibyl, for the schooner was got ready for sea.  By eight the lagoon was flawed with
long cat's-paws, and the palms tossed and rustled; before ten we were clear of the passage
and skimming under all plain sail, with bubbling scuppers.  So we had the breeze, which was
well worth a dollar in itself; but the bulletin about my friend in England proved, some six
months later, when I got my mail, to have been groundless.  Perhaps London lies beyond the
horizon of the island gods.

Tembinok', in his first dealings, showed himself sternly averse from superstition:  and had
not the Equator delayed, we might have left the island and still supposed him an agnostic.
It chanced one day, however, that he came to our maniap', and found Mrs. Stevenson in the midst
of a game of patience.  She explained the game as well as she was able, and wound up jocularly
by telling him this was her devil-work, and if she won, the Equator would arrive next day.
Tembinok' must have drawn a long breath; we were not so high-and- dry after all; he need no
longer dissemble, and he plunged at once into confessions.  He made devil-work every day, he
told us, to know if ships were coming in; and thereafter brought us regular reports of the
results.  It was surprising how regularly he was wrong; but he always had an explanation ready.
There had been some schooner in the offing out of view; but either she was not bound for Apemama,
or had changed her course, or lay becalmed.  I used to regard the king with veneration as he
thus publicly deceived himself.  I saw behind him all the fathers of the Church, all the philosophers
and men of science of the past; before him, all those that are to come; himself in the midst;
the whole visionary series bowed over the same task of welding incongruities.  To the end Tembinok'
spoke reluctantly of the island gods and their worship, and I learned but little.  Taburik
is the god of thunder, and deals in wind and weather.  A while since there were wizards who
could call him down in the form of lightning.  'My patha he tell me he see:  you think he lie?'
Tienti--pronounced something like 'Chench,' and identified by his majesty with the devil--sends
and removes bodily sickness.  He is whistled for in the Paumotuan manner, and is said to appear;
but the king has never seen him. The doctors treat disease by the aid of Chench:  eclectic
Tembinok' at the same time administering 'pain-killer' from his medicine- chest, so as to give
the sufferer both chances.  'I think mo' betta,' observed his majesty, with more than his usual
self- approval.  Apparently the gods are not jealous, and placidly enjoy both shrine and priest
in common.  On Tamaiti's medicine-tree, for instance, the model canoes are hung up ex voto
for a prosperous voyage, and must therefore be dedicated to Taburik, god of the weather; but
the stone in front is the place of sick folk come to pacify Chench.

It chanced, by great good luck, that even as we spoke of these affairs, I found myself threatened
with a cold.  I do not suppose I was ever glad of a cold before, or shall ever be again; but
the opportunity to see the sorcerers at work was priceless, and I called in the faculty of
Apemama.  They came in a body, all in their Sunday's best and hung with wreaths and shells,
the insignia of the devil-worker.  Tamaiti I knew already:  Terutak' I saw for the first time--a
tall, lank, raw-boned, serious North-Sea fisherman turned brown; and there was a third in their
company whose name I never heard, and who played to Tamaiti the part of famulus.  Tamaiti took
me in hand first, and led me, conversing agreeably, to the shores of Fu Bay.  The famulus climbed
a tree for some green cocoa-nuts.  Tamaiti himself disappeared a while in the bush and returned
with coco tinder, dry leaves, and a spray of waxberry.  I was placed on the stone, with my
back to the tree and my face to windward; between me and the gravel-heap one of the green nuts
was set; and then Tamaiti (having previously bared his feet, for he had come in canvas shoes,
which tortured him) joined me within the magic circle, hollowed out the top of the gravel-
heap, built his fire in the bottom, and applied a match:  it was one of Bryant and May's. 
The flame was slow to catch, and the irreverent sorcerer filled in the time with talk of foreign
places- -of London, and 'companies,' and how much money they had; of San Francisco, and the
nefarious fogs, 'all the same smoke,' which had been so nearly the occasion of his death. 
I tried vainly to lead him to the matter in hand.  'Everybody make medicine,' he said lightly.
And when I asked him if he were himself a good practitioner--'No savvy,' he replied, more lightly
still.  At length the leaves burst in a flame, which he continued to feed; a thick, light smoke
blew in my face, and the flames streamed against and scorched my clothes.  He in the meanwhile
addressed, or affected to address, the evil spirit, his lips moving fast, but without sound;
at the same time he waved in the air and twice struck me on the breast with his green spray.
So soon as the leaves were consumed the ashes were buried, the green spray was imbedded in
the gravel, and the ceremony was at an end.

A reader of the Arabian Nights felt quite at home.  Here was the suffumigation; here was the
muttering wizard; here was the desert place to which Aladdin was decoyed by the false uncle.
But they manage these things better in fiction.  The effect was marred by the levity of the
magician, entertaining his patient with small talk like an affable dentist, and by the incongruous
presence of Mr. Osbourne with a camera.  As for my cold, it was neither better nor worse.

I was now handed over to Terutak', the leading practitioner or medical baronet of Apemama.
His place is on the lagoon side of the island, hard by the palace.  A rail of light wood, some
two feet high, encloses an oblong piece of gravel like the king's Pray Place; in the midst
is a green tree; below, a stone table bears a pair of boxes covered with a fine mat; and in
front of these an offering of food, a cocoa-nut, a piece of taro or a fish, is placed daily.
On two sides the enclosure is lined with maniap's; and one of our party, who had been there
to sketch, had remarked a daily concourse of people and an extraordinary number of sick children;
for this is in fact the infirmary of Apemama.  The doctor and myself entered the sacred place
alone; the boxes and the mat were displaced; and I was enthroned in their stead upon the stone,
facing once more to the east.  For a while the sorcerer remained unseen behind me, making passes
in the air with a branch of palm. Then he struck lightly on the brim of my straw hat; and this
blow he continued to repeat at intervals, sometimes brushing instead my arm and shoulder. 
I have had people try to mesmerise me a dozen times, and never with the least result.  But
at the first tap--on a quarter no more vital than my hat-brim, and from nothing more virtuous
than a switch of palm wielded by a man I could not even see--sleep rushed upon me like an armed
man.  My sinews fainted, my eyes closed, my brain hummed, with drowsiness.  I resisted, at
first instinctively, then with a certain flurry of despair, in the end successfully; if that
were indeed success which enabled me to scramble to my feet, to stumble home somnambulous,
to cast myself at once upon my bed, and sink at once into a dreamless stupor. When I awoke
my cold was gone.  So I leave a matter that I do not understand.

Meanwhile my appetite for curiosities (not usually very keen) had been strangely whetted by
the sacred boxes.  They were of pandanus wood, oblong in shape, with an effect of pillaring
along the sides like straw work, lightly fringed with hair or fibre and standing on four legs.
The outside was neat as a toy; the inside a mystery I was resolved to penetrate.  But there
was a lion in the path.  I might not approach Terutak', since I had promised to buy nothing
in the island; I dared not have recourse to the king, for I had already received from him more
gifts than I knew how to repay.  In this dilemma (the schooner being at last returned) we hit
on a device.  Captain Reid came forward in my stead, professed an unbridled passion for the
boxes, and asked and obtained leave to bargain for them with the wizard.  That same afternoon
the captain and I made haste to the infirmary, entered the enclosure, raised the mat, and had
begun to examine the boxes at our leisure, when Terutak's wife bounced out of one of the nigh
houses, fell upon us, swept up the treasures, and was gone.  There was never a more absolute
surprise.  She came, she took, she vanished, we had not a guess whither; and we remained, with
foolish looks and laughter on the empty field.  Such was the fit prologue of our memorable
bargaining.

Presently Terutak' came, bringing Tamaiti along with him, both smiling; and we four squatted
without the rail.  In the three maniap's of the infirmary a certain audience was gathered:
the family of a sick child under treatment, the king's sister playing cards, a pretty girl,
who swore I was the image of her father; in all perhaps a score.  Terutak's wife had returned
(even as she had vanished) unseen, and now sat, breathless and watchful, by her husband's side.
Perhaps some rumour of our quest had gone abroad, or perhaps we had given the alert by our
unseemly freedom: certain, at least, that in the faces of all present, expectation and alarm
were mingled.

Captain Reid announced, without preface or disguise, that I was come to purchase; Terutak',
with sudden gravity, refused to sell. He was pressed; he persisted.  It was explained we only
wanted one: no matter, two were necessary for the healing of the sick.  He was rallied, he
was reasoned with:  in vain.  He sat there, serious and still, and refused.  All this was only
a preliminary skirmish; hitherto no sum of money had been mentioned; but now the captain brought
his great guns to bear.  He named a pound, then two, then three.  Out of the maniap's one person
after another came to join the group, some with mere excitement, others with consternation
in their faces.  The pretty girl crept to my side; it was then that-- surely with the most
artless flattery--she informed me of my likeness to her father.  Tamaiti the infidel sat with
hanging head and every mark of dejection.  Terutak' streamed with sweat, his eye was glazed,
his face wore a painful rictus, his chest heaved like that of one spent with running.  The
man must have been by nature covetous; and I doubt if ever I saw moral agony more tragically
displayed.  His wife by his side passionately encouraged his resistance.

And now came the charge of the old guard.  The captain, making a skip, named the surprising
figure of five pounds.  At the word the maniap's were emptied.  The king's sister flung down
her cards and came to the front to listen, a cloud on her brow.  The pretty girl beat her breast
and cried with wearisome iteration that if the box were hers I should have it.  Terutak's wife
was beside herself with pious fear, her face discomposed, her voice (which scarce ceased from
warning and encouragement) shrill as a whistle.  Even Terutak' lost that image-like immobility
which he had hitherto maintained. He rocked on his mat, threw up his closed knees alternately,
and struck himself on the breast after the manner of dancers.  But he came gold out of the
furnace; and with what voice was left him continued to reject the bribe.

And now came a timely interjection.  'Money will not heal the sick,' observed the king's sister
sententiously; and as soon as I heard the remark translated my eyes were unsealed, and I began
to blush for my employment.  Here was a sick child, and I sought, in the view of its parents,
to remove the medicine-box.  Here was the priest of a religion, and I (a heathen millionaire)
was corrupting him to sacrilege.  Here was a greedy man, torn in twain betwixt greed and conscience;
and I sat by and relished, and lustfully renewed his torments.  Ave, Caesar!  Smothered in
a corner, dormant but not dead, we have all the one touch of nature:  an infant passion for
the sand and blood of the arena.  So I brought to an end my first and last experience of the
joys of the millionaire, and departed amid silent awe.  Nowhere else can I expect to stir the
depths of human nature by an offer of five pounds; nowhere else, even at the expense of millions,
could I hope to see the evil of riches stand so legibly exposed.  Of all the bystanders, none
but the king's sister retained any memory of the gravity and danger of the thing in hand. 
Their eyes glowed, the girl beat her breast, in senseless animal excitement.  Nothing was offered
them; they stood neither to gain nor to lose; at the mere name and wind of these great sums
Satan possessed them.

From this singular interview I went straight to the palace; found the king; confessed what
I had been doing; begged him, in my name, to compliment Terutak' on his virtue, and to have
a similar box made for me against the return of the schooner.  Tembinok', Rubam, and one of
the Daily Papers--him we used to call 'the Facetiae Column'--laboured for a while of some idea,
which was at last intelligibly delivered.  They feared I thought the box would cure me; whereas,
without the wizard, it was useless; and when I was threatened with another cold I should do
better to rely on pain- killer.  I explained I merely wished to keep it in my 'outch' as a
thing made in Apemama and these honest men were much relieved.

Late the same evening, my wife, crossing the isle to windward, was aware of singing in the
bush.  Nothing is more common in that hour and place than the jubilant carol of the toddy-cutter,
swinging high overhead, beholding below him the narrow ribbon of the isle, the surrounding
field of ocean, and the fires of the sunset.  But this was of a graver character, and seemed
to proceed from the ground-level.  Advancing a little in the thicket, Mrs. Stevenson saw a
clear space, a fine mat spread in the midst, and on the mat a wreath of white flowers and one
of the devil-work boxes.  A woman-- whom we guess to have been Mrs. Terutak'--sat in front,
now drooping over the box like a mother over a cradle, now lifting her face and directing her
song to heaven.  A passing toddy-cutter told my wife that she was praying.  Probably she did
not so much pray as deprecate; and perhaps even the ceremony was one of disenchantment. For
the box was already doomed; it was to pass from its green medicine-tree, reverend precinct,
and devout attendants; to be handled by the profane; to cross three seas; to come to land under
the foolscap of St. Paul's; to be domesticated within the hail of Lillie Bridge; there to be
dusted by the British housemaid, and to take perhaps the roar of London for the voice of the
outer sea along the reef.  Before even we had finished dinner Chench had begun his journey,
and one of the newspapers had already placed the box upon my table as the gift of Tembinok'.

I made haste to the palace, thanked the king, but offered to restore the box, for I could not
bear that the sick of the island should be made to suffer.  I was amazed by his reply.  Terutak',
it appeared, had still three or four in reserve against an accident; and his reluctance, and
the dread painted at first on every face, was not in the least occasioned by the prospect of
medical destitution, but by the immediate divinity of Chench.  How much more did I respect
the king's command, which had been able to extort in a moment and for nothing a sacrilegious
favour that I had in vain solicited with millions!  But now I had a difficult task in front
of me; it was not in my view that Terutak' should suffer by his virtue; and I must persuade
the king to share my opinion, to let me enrich one of his subjects, and (what was yet more
delicate) to pay for my present.  Nothing shows the king in a more becoming light than the
fact that I succeeded.  He demurred at the principle; he exclaimed, when he heard it, at the
sum.  'Plenty money!' cried he, with contemptuous displeasure.  But his resistance was never
serious; and when he had blown off his ill- humour--'A' right,' said he.  'You give him.  Mo'
betta.'

Armed with this permission, I made straight for the infirmary.  The night was now come, cool,
dark, and starry.  On a mat hard by a clear fire of wood and coco shell, Terutak' lay beside
his wife. Both were smiling; the agony was over, the king's command had reconciled (I must
suppose) their agitating scruples; and I was bidden to sit by them and share the circulating
pipe.  I was a little moved myself when I placed five gold sovereigns in the wizard's hand;
but there was no sign of emotion in Terutak' as he returned them, pointed to the palace, and
named Tembinok'.  It was a changed scene when I had managed to explain.  Terutak', long, dour
Scots fisherman as he was, expressed his satisfaction within bounds; but the wife beamed; and
there was an old gentleman present--her father, I suppose--who seemed nigh translated.  His
eyes stood out of his head; 'Kaupoi, Kaupoi--rich, rich!' ran on his lips like a refrain; and
he could not meet my eye but what he gurgled into foolish laughter.

