MORIAH'S MOURNING

and Other Half-Hour Sketches

By RUTH MCENERY STUART

Author of "In Simpkinsville" "A Golden Wedding" etc.

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS

LONDON AND NEW YORK HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS 1898

Copyright, 1898, by Harper & Brothers. All rights reserved.

Printed in New York, U.S.A.

CONTENTS

                                                                 PAGE

MORIAH'S MOURNING                                                   3

AN OPTICAL DILEMMA                                                 19

THE SECOND MRS. SLIMM                                              37

APOLLO BELVEDERE. A CHRISTMAS EPISODE OF THE PLANTATION            53

NEAREST OF KIN (ON THE PLANTATION)                                 71

THE DEACON'S MEDICINE                                              93

TWO GENTLEMEN OF LEISURE                                          113

THE REV. JORDAN WHITE'S THREE GLANCES                             131

LADY. A MONOLOGUE OF THE COW-PEN                                  157

A PULPIT ORATOR                                                   165

AN EASTER SYMBOL. A MONOLOGUE OF THE PLANTATION                   175

CHRISTMAS AT THE TRIMBLES'                                        181

A MINOR CHORD                                                     211

ILLUSTRATIONS

"'THANK THE LORD! NOW I CAN SEE TO LOOK FOR 'EM!'"                                        
Frontispiece

"A SURPRISED AND SMILING MAN WAS SITTING AT HER POLISHED KITCHEN TABLE"                   
Facing p.         8

"'I'M AC-CHILLY MOST AFEERD TO SEE YOU CONVERTED'"                                     "  
40

"'I PROMISED HIM I'D PUT ON MO'NIN' FOR HER SOON AS I MARRIED INTO DE FAMILY'"            
"              74

"SAYS SHE, 'OPEN YORE MOUTH!' AN' OF CO'SE I OPENED IT"                                   
"              98

"I DES LETS 'EM LOOSE P'OMISKYUS, TELL EV'YBODY SEE BLUE LIGHTNIN'"                       
"             134

"SALVATION'S KYAR IS MOVIN'!"                       "             148

"'WON'T YER, PLEASE, SIR, SPELL DAT WORD OUT FUR ME SLOW?'"                               
"             168

MORIAH'S MOURNING

Moriah was a widow of a month, and when she announced her intention of marrying again, the
plantation held its breath. Then it roared with laughter.

Not because of the short period of her mourning was the news so incredible. But by a most exceptional
mourning Moriah had put herself upon record as the most inconsolable of widows.

So prompt a readjustment of life under similar conditions was by no means unprecedented in
colored circles.

The rules governing the wearing of the mourning garb are by no means stringent in plantation
communities, and the widow who for reasons of economy or convenience sees fit to wear out her
colored garments during her working hours is not held to account for so doing if she appear
at all public functions clad in such weeds as she may find available. It is not even needful,
indeed, that her supreme effort should attain any definite standard. Anybody can collect a
few black things, and there is often an added pathos in the very incongruity of some of the
mourning toilettes that pass up the aisles of the colored churches.

Was not the soul of artlessness expressed in the first mourning of a certain young widow, for
instance, who sewed upon her blue gown all the black trimming she could collect, declaring
that she "would 'a' dyed de frock th'oo an' th'oo 'cep'n' it would 'a' swunked it up too much"?
And perhaps her sympathetic companions were quite as naïve as she, for, as they aided her in
these first hasty stitches, they poured upon her wounded spirit the healing oil of full and
sympathetic approval, as the following remarks will testify.

"Dat frock mo'ns all right, now de black bows is on it."

"You kin put any colored frock in mo'nin' 'cep'n' a red one. Sew black on red, an' it laughs
in yo' face."

"I'm a-sewin' de black fringe on de josey, Sis Jones, 'case fringe hit mo'ns a heap mo'nfuler
'n ribbon do."

Needless to say, a license so full and free as this found fine expression in a field of flowering
weeds quite rare and beautiful to see.

Moriah had proven herself in many ways an exceptional person even before the occasion of her
bereavement, and in this, contrary to all precedent, she had rashly cast her every garment
into the dye-pot, sparing not even so much as her underwear.

Moriah was herself as black as a total eclipse, tall, angular, and imposing, and as she strode
down the road, clad in the sombre vestments of sorrow, she was so noble an expression of her
own idea that as a simple embodiment of dignified surrender to grief she commanded respect.

The plantation folk were profoundly impressed, for it had soon become known that her black
garb was not merely a thing of the surface.

"Moriah sho' does mo'n for Numa. She mo'ns f'om de skin out." Such was popular comment, although
it is said that one practical sister, to whom this "inward mo'nin'" had little meaning, ventured
so far as to protest against it.

"Sis Moriah," she said, timidly, as she sat waiting while Moriah dressed for church--"Sis Moriah,
look ter me like you'd be 'feerd dem black shimmies 'd draw out some sort o' tetter on yo'
skin," to which bit of friendly warning Moriah had responded, with a groan, and in a voice
that was almost sepulchral in its awful solemnity, "When I mo'n I mo'n!"

Perhaps an idea of the unusual presence of this great black woman may be conveyed by the fact
that when she said, as she was wont to do in speaking of her own name, "I'm named Moriah--after
a Bible mountain," there seemed a sort of fitness in the name and in the juxtaposition neither
the sacred eminence or the woman suffered a loss of dignity.

And this woman it was who, after eight years of respectable wifehood and but four weeks of
mourning her lost mate, calmly announced that she was to be married again.

The man of her choice--I use the expression advisedly--was a neighbor whom she had always known,
a widower whose bereavement was of three months' longer standing than her own.

The courtship must have been brief and to the point, for it was positively known that he and
his fiancée had met but three times in the interval when the banns were published.

He had been engaged to whitewash the kitchen in which she had pursued her vocation as cook
for the writer's family.

The whitewashing was done in a single morning, but a second coating was found necessary, and
it is said by one of her fellow-servants, who professes to have overheard the remark, that
while Pete was putting the finishing-touches to the bit of chimney back of her stove, Moriah,
who stooped at the oven door beside him, basting a roast turkey, lifted up her stately head
and said, archly, breaking her mourning record for the first time by a gleaming display of
ivory and coral as she spoke,

"Who'd 'a' thought you'd come into my kitchen to do yo' secon' co'tin', Pete?"

At which, so says our informant, the whitewash brush fell from the delighted artisan's hands,
and in a shorter time than is consumed in the telling, a surprised and smiling man was sitting
at her polished kitchen table chatting cosily with his mourning hostess, while she served him
with giblets and gravy and rice and potatoes "an' coffee b'iled expressly."

It was discovered that the kitchen walls needed a third coating. This took an entire day, "because,"
so said Pete, "de third coat, hit takes mo' time to soak in."

And then came the announcement. Moriah herself, apparently in nowise embarrassed by its burden,
bore the news to us on the following morning. There was no visible change of front in her bearing
as she presented herself--no abatement of her mourning.

"Mis' Gladys," she said, simply, "I come ter give you notice dat I gwine take fo' days off,
startin' nex' Sunday."

"I hope you are not in any new trouble, Moriah?" I said, sympathetically.

"Well, I don' know ef I is or not. Me an' Pete Pointdexter, we done talked it over, an' we
come ter de conclusion ter marry."

I turned and looked at the woman--at her black garments, her still serious expression. Surely
my hearing was playing me false. But catching my unspoken protest, she had already begun to
explain.

"Dey ain't no onrespec' ter de dead, Mis' Gladys, in marryin'," she began. "De onrespec' is
in de carryin's on folks does when dey marry. Pete an' me, we 'low ter have eve'ything quiet
an' solemncholy--an' pay all due respects--right an' left. Of co'se Pete's chillen stands up
fur dey mammy, an' dey don't take no stock in him ma'yin' ag'in. But Ca'line she been dead
long enough--mos' six mont's--countin' fo' weeks ter de mont'. An' as fur me, I done 'ranged
ter have eve'ything did ter show respec's ter Numa." (Numa was her deceased husband.) "De organ-player
he gwine march us in chu'ch by de same march he played fur Numa's fun'al, an' look like dat
in itse'f is enough ter show de world dat I ain't forgot Numa. An', tell de trufe, Mis' Gladys,
ef Numa was ter rise up f'om his grave, I'd sen' Pete a-flyin' so fast you could sen' eggs
to market on his coat tail.

"You see, de trouble is I done had my eye on Pete's chillen ever sence dey mammy died, an'
ef dey ever was a set o' onery, low-down, sassy, no-'count little niggers dat need takin' in
hand by a able-bodied step-mammy, dey a-waitin' fur me right yonder in Pete's cabin. My hand
has des nachelly itched to take aholt o' dat crowd many a day--an' ever sence I buried Numa
of co'se I see de way was open. An' des as soon as I felt like I could bring myse'f to it,
I--well--Dey warn't no use losin' time, an' so I tol' you, missy, dat de kitchen need' white-washin'."

"And so you sent for him--and proposed to him, did you?"

"P'opose to who, Mis' Gladys? I'd see Pete in de sinkin' swamp 'fo' I'd p'opose to him!"

"Then how did you manage it, pray?"

"G'way, Mis' Gladys! Any wide-awake widder 'oman dat kin get a widder man whar he can't he'p
but see her move round at her work for two days hand-runnin', an' can't mesmerize him so's
he'll ax her to marry him--Um--hm! I'd ondertake ter do dat, even ef I warn't no cook; but
wid seasonin's an' flavors to he'p me--Law, chile! dey warn't no yearthly 'scape fur dem chillen!

"I would 'a' waited," she added, presently--"I would 'a' waited a reas'nable time, 'cep'n dat
Pete started gwine ter chu'ch, an' you know yo'se'f, missy, when a well-favored widder man
go ter seek consolation f'om de pulpit, he's might' ap' ter find it in de congergation."

As I sat listening to her quiet exposition of her scheme, it seemed monstrous.

"And so, Moriah," I spoke now with a ring of real severity in my voice--"and so you are going
to marry a man that you confess you don't care for, just for the sake of getting control of
his children? I wouldn't have believed it of you."

"Well--partly, missy." She smiled a little now for the first time. "Partly on dat account,
an' partly on his'n. Pete's wife Ca'line, she was a good 'oman, but she was mighty puny an'
peevish; an' besides dat, she was one o' deze heah naggers, an' Pete is allus had a purty hard
pull, an' I lay out ter give him a better chance. Eve'y bit o' whitewashin' he'd git ter do
'roun' town, Ca'line she'd swaller it in medicine. But she was a good 'oman, Ca'line was. Heap
o' deze heah naggers is good 'omans! Co'se I don't say I loves Pete, but I looks ter come roun'
ter 'im in time. Ef I didn't, I wouldn't have him."

"And how about his loving you?"

"Oh, Mis' Gladys, you is so searching!" She chuckled. "Co'se he say he loves me already better'n
he love Ca'line, but of co'se a widder man he feels obleeged ter talk dat-a-way. An' ef he
didn't have the manners ter say it, I wouldn't have him, to save his life; but ef he meant
it, I'd despise him. After Ca'line lovin' de groun' he tread fur nine long yeahs, he ain't
got no right ter love no 'oman better'n he love her des 'caze he's a-projec'in' ter git married
to 'er. But of co'se, Mis' Gladys, I ca'culates ter outstrip Ca'line in co'se o' time. Ef I
couldn't do dat--an' she in 'er grave--an' me a cook--I wouldn't count myse'f much. An' den,
time I outstrips her an' git him over, heart an' soul, I'll know it by de signs."

"Why will you know it more than you know it now? He can but swear it to you."

"Oh no, missy. When de rock bottom of a man's heart warms to a 'oman, he eases off f'om swearin'
'bout it. Deze heah men wha' swear so much, dey swear des as much ter convince deyselves as
dey does ter ketch a 'oman's ear. No, missy. Time I got him heart an' soul, I looks for him
to commence to th'ow up Ca'line's ways ter me. Heap of 'em does dat des ter ease dey own consciences
an' pacify a dead 'oman's ghost. Dat's de way a man nachelly do. But he won't faze me, so long
as I holds de fort! An' fur de chillen, co'se quick as I gits 'em broke in I'll see dat dey
won't miss Ca'line none. Dat little teether, I done tol' Pete ter fetch her over ter me right
away. Time I doctors her wid proper teas, an' washes her in good warm pot-liquor, I'll make
a fus'-class baby out'n her."

Moriah had always been a good woman, and as she stood before me, laying bare the scheme that,
no matter what the conditions, had in it the smallest selfish consideration, I felt my heart
warm to her again, and I could not but feel that the little whitewasher--a kindly, hard-pressed
family man of slight account--would do well to lay his brood upon her ample bosom.

Of course she was marrying him, and her acquisition of family would inevitably become pensioners
upon our bounty; but this is not a great matter in a land where the so-called "cultivation"
of the soil is mainly a question of pruning and selection, and clothes grow upon the commonest
bush.

As she turned to go, I even offered her my best wishes, and when I laughingly asked her if
I might help her with her wedding-dress, she turned and looked at me.

"Bless yo' heart, Mis' Gladys," she exclaimed, "I ain't gwine out o' mo'nin'! I gwine marry
Pete in des what I got on my back. I'll marry him, an' I'll take dem little no-'counts o' his'n,
an' I'll make folks out'n 'em 'fo' I gits th'ough wid 'em, ef Gord spares me; but he nee'n't
ter lay out ter come in 'twix' me an' my full year o' mo'nin' fur Numa. When I walks inter
dat chu'ch, 'cep'n' fur de owange wreaf, which of co'se in a Christian ma'iage I'm boun' ter
wear, folks 'll be a heap mo' 'minded o' Numa 'n dey will o' de bridegroom. An' dem chillen
o' his'n, which ain't nuver is had no proper mo'nin' fur dey mammy--no mo' 'n what color Gord
give 'em in dey skins--I gwine put 'em in special secon' mo'nin', 'cordin' to de time dey ought
ter been wearin' it; an' when we walks up de island o' de chu'ch, dey got ter foller, two by
two, keepin' time ter de fun'al march. You come ter de weddin', Mis' Gladys, an' I lay you'll
'low dat I done fixed it so dat, while I'm a-lookin' out fur de livin', de dead ain't gwine
feel slighted, right nur left."

She was starting away again, and once more, while I wished her joy, I bade her be careful to
make no mistake. A note of sympathy in my voice must have touched the woman, for she turned,
and coming quite up to me, laid her hand upon my lap.

"Missy," she said, "I don't believe I gwine make no mistake. You know I allus did love chillen,
an' I ain't nuver is had none o' my own, an' dis heah seemed like my chance. An' I been surveyin'
de lan'scape o'er tryin' ter think about eve'ything I can do ter start right. I'm a-startin'
wid dem chillen, puttin' 'em in mo'nin' fur Ca'line. Den, fur Pete, I gwine ring de changes
on Ca'line's goodness tell he ax me, for Gord sake, ter stop, so, in years ter come, he won't
have nothin' ter th'ow up ter me. An' you know de reason I done tooken fo' days off, missy?
I gwine on a weddin'-trip down ter Pine Bluff, an' I wants time ter pick out a few little weddin'-presents
to fetch home ter Pete."

"Pete!" I cried. "Pete is going with you, of course?"

"Pete gwine wid me? Who sesso? No, ma'am! Why, missy, how would it look fur me ter go a-skylarkin'
roun' de country wid Pete--an' me in mo'nin'?

"No, indeedy! I gwine leave Pete home ter take keer dem chillen, an' I done set him a good
job o' whitewashin' to do while I'm gone, too. De principles' weddin'-present I gwine fetch
Pete is a fiddle. Po' Pete been wantin' a good fiddle all his life, an' he 'ain't nuver is
had one. But, of co'se, I don't 'low ter let him play on it tell de full year of mo'nin' is out."

AN OPTICAL DILEMMA

Elder Bradley had lost his spectacles, and he was in despair. He was nearly blind without them,
and there was no one at home to hunt them for him. His wife had gone out visiting for the afternoon;
and he had just seen Dinah, the cook, stride gleefully out the front gate at the end of the
lane, arrayed in all her "s'ciety uniform," on her way to a church funeral. She would not be
home until dark.

It was growing late in the afternoon, and the elder had to make out his report to be read at
the meeting of the session this evening. It had to be done.

He could not, from where he sat, distinguish the pink lion's head from the purple rose-buds
on the handsome new American Brussels rug that his wife had bought him as a Christmas gift--to
lay under her sewing-machine--although he could put out his boot and touch it. How could he
expect to find anything so small as a pair of spectacles?

The elder was a very old man, and for years his focal point had been moving off gradually,
until now his chief pleasures of sight were to be found out-of-doors, where the distant views
came gratefully to meet him.

He could more easily distinguish the dark glass insulators from the little sparrows that sometimes
came to visit them upon the telegraph pole a quarter of a mile away than he could discriminate
between the beans and the pie that sometimes lay together on his dinner plate.

Indeed, when his glasses stayed lost over mealtimes, as they had occasionally done, he had,
after vainly struggling to locate the various viands upon his plate and suffering repeated
palatal disappointments, generally ended by stirring them all together, with the declaration
that he would at least get one certain taste, and abide by it.

This would seem to show him to have been an essentially amiable man, even though he was occasionally
mastered by such outbursts of impatience as this; for, be it said to his credit, he always
left a clean plate.

The truth is, Elder Bradley was an earnest, good man, and he had tried all his life, in a modest,
undeclared way, to be a Christian philosopher. And he would try it now. He had been, for an
hour after his mishap, walking more rapidly than was his habit up and down the entire length
of the hall that divided the house into two distinct sides, and his head had hung low upon
his bosom. He had been pondering. Or perhaps he had been praying. His dilemma was by no means
a thing to be taken lightly.

Suddenly realizing, however, that he had squandered the greater part of a valuable afternoon
in useless repining, he now lifted his head and glanced about him.

"I'm a-goin' to find them blame spec's--eyes or no eyes!" He spoke with a steady voice that
had in it the ring of the invincible spirit that dares failure. And now, having resolved and
spoken, he turned and entered the dining-room--and sat down. It was here that he remembered
having last used the glasses. He would sit here and think.

It was a rather small room, which would have been an advantage in ordinary circumstances. But
to the elder its dimensions were an insurmountable difficulty. How can one compass a forty-rod
focus within the limits of a twelve by sixteen foot room?

But if his eyes could not help him, his hands must. He had taken as few steps as possible in
going about the room, lest he should tread upon the glasses unawares; and now, stepping gingerly,
and sometimes merely pushing his feet along, he approached his writing-table and sat down before
it. Then he began to feel. It was a tedious experiment and a hazardous one, and after a few
moments of nervous and fruitless groping, he sought relief in expression.

"That's right! turn over!" he exclaimed. "I s'pose you're the red ink! Now if I could jest
capsize the mucilage-bottle an' my bag o' snuff, an' stir in that Seidlitz-powder I laid out
here to take, it would be purty cheerful for them fiddle-de-dees an' furbelows thet's layin'
everywhere. I hope they'll ketch it ef anything does! They's nothin' I feel so much like doin'
ez takin' a spoon to the whole business!"

The elder was a popular father, grandfather, uncle, husband, and Bible-class teacher to a band
of devoted women of needle-work and hand-painting proclivities, and his writing-table was a
favorite target for their patiently wrought love-missiles.

One of the strongest evidences of the old man's kindliness of nature was that it was only when
he was wrought up to the point of desperation, as now, that he spoke his mind about the gewgaws
which his soul despised.

There are very few good old elders in the Presbyterian Church who care to have pink bows tied
on their penholders, or to be reminded at every turn that they are hand-painted and daisy-decked
"Dear Grandfathers." It is rather inconvenient to have to dodge a daisy or a motto every time
one wants to dry a letter on his blotting-pad, and the hand-painted paper-cutter was never
meant to cut anything.

"Yes," the good old man repeated, "ef I knowed I could stir in every blame thing thet's got
a ribbon bow or a bo'quet on it, I'd take a spoon to this table now--an' stir the whole business
up--an' start fresh!"

Still, as his hand tipped a bottle presently, he caught it and set it cautiously back in its place.

He had begun now to systematically feel over the table, proceeding regularly with both hands
from left to right and back again, until on a last return trip he discerned the edge of the
mahogany next his body. And then he said--and he said it with spirit:

"Dod blast it! They ain't here--nowheres!"

He sat still now for a moment in thought. And then he began to remember that he had sat talking
to his wife at the sewing-machine just before she left the house. He rose and examined the
table of the machine and the floor beneath it. Then he tried the sideboard and the window-sill,
where he had read his morning chapter from St. Paul's Epistle to the Romans, chapter viii.

He even shook out the leaves of his Testament upon the floor between his knees and felt for
them there. There had been a Biblical surrender of this sort more than once in the past, and
he never failed to go to the Good Book for relief, even when, as now, he distinctly remembered
having worn the glasses after his daily reading.

Failing to find them here, he suddenly ran his hand over his forehead with an eager movement.
Many a time these very spectacles had come back to him there, and, strange to say, it was always
one of the last places he remembered to examine. But they were not there now.

He chuckled, even in his despair, as he dropped his hand.

"I'll look there ag'in after a while. Maybe when he's afeerd I'll clair lose my soul, he'll
fetch 'em back to me!"

The old man had often playfully asserted that his "guardeen angel" found his lost glasses,
and laid them back on his head for him when he saw him tried beyond his strength. And maybe
he was right. Who can tell? That there is some sort of so-called "supernatural" intervention
in such matters there seems to be little doubt.

There is a race--of brownies, probably, or maybe they are imps--whose business in life seems
to be to catch up any needed trifle--a suddenly dropped needle, the very leaf in the morning
paper that the reader held a moment ago and that holds "continuations," the scissors just now
at his elbow, his collar button--and to hide it until the loser swears his ultimate, most desperate
swear!

When the profanity is satisfactory, the little fellows usually fetch back the missing article,
lay it noiselessly under the swearer's nose, and vanish.

At other times, when the victim persistently declines profanity, they have been known to amiably
restore the articles after a reasonable time, and to lay them so absurdly in evidence that
the hitherto forbearing man breaks his record in a volley of imprecations.

When this happens, if one has presence of mind to listen, he can distinctly hear a fine metallic
titter along the tops of the furniture and a hasty scamper, as of tiny scurrying feet.

This may sound jocund, but the writer testifies that it is true.

Of course when the victim is a lady the pixies do not require of them men's oaths. But they
will have only her best.

When the elder had tried in vain all the probable places where the glasses might be hidden,
he began to realize that there was only one thing left for him to do. He must feel all over
the floor.

He was a fat old man and short of neck.

For five years he had realized a feeling of thankfulness that the Presbyterian form of worship
permitted standing in prayer. It hurt him to kneel. But nothing could hurt him so much as to
fail to hand in his report to-night. Indeed, the missionary collection would be affected by
it. It must be written.

He found a corner in the room and got down on his marrow-bones, throwing his hands forward
and bringing them back in far-reaching curves, as one swimming. This was hard work, and before
many minutes great drops of perspiration were falling upon the carpet and the old man's breath
came in quick gasps.

"Ef I jest had the blame things for a minute to slip on my eyes, why, I could find 'em--easy
enough!" he ejaculated--desperation in his voice.

And then he proceeded to say a number of things that were lacking in moderation, and consequently
very sinful--in an elder of the church.

The "bad words" spoken in the vacant house fell accusingly upon the speaker's ears, and they
must have startled him, for he hastened to add: "I don't see where no sense o' jestice comes
in, nohow, in allowin' a man on the very eve of doin' his Christian duty to lose his most important
wherewithal!"

This plea was no doubt in mild extenuation of the explosive that had preceded it, and as he
turned and drew himself forward by his elbows to compass a new section of the room, which,
by-the-way, seemed suddenly expanded in size, he began to realize that the plea was in itself
most sinful--even more so than the outburst, perhaps, being an implication of divine injustice.

A lump came into his throat, and as he proceeded laboriously along on his dry swim, he felt
for a moment in danger of crying.

Of course this would never do, but there was just so much emotion within him, and it had begun
to ferment.

Before he realized his excitement his arms were flying about wildly and he was shrieking in
a frenzy.

"But I must have 'em! I must have 'em! I must, I say; O Lord, I must--I MUST HAVE THEM SPECTACLES!
Lor-r-d, I have work to do--FOR THEE--an' I am eager to perform it. All I ask is FIVE MINUTES'
USE O' MY EYES, so thet I may pursue this search in patience--"

His voice broke in a sob.

And just now it was that his left hand, fumbling over the foot of the sewing-machine treadle,
ran against a familiar bit of steel wire.

If it had connected with an ordinary electric battery, the resulting shock could scarcely have
been more pronounced.

There was something really pathetic in the spasmodic grasp with which he seized the glasses,
and as he rose to a sitting posture and lifted them to his eyes, his hand shook pitifully.

"Thank the Lord! Now I can see to look for 'em!" And as he tremblingly brought the curved ends
of the wire around his ears he exclaimed with fervor, "Yas, Lord, with Thy help I will keep
my vow--an' pursue this search in patience." His wet, red face beamed with pleasure over the
recovery of his near vision. So happy was he, indeed, in the new possession, that, instead
of rising, he sat still in the middle of the floor, running his eyes with rapid scrutiny over
the carpet near him. He sat here a long time--even forgetting his discomfort, while he turned
as on a pivot as the search required. Though the missing articles did not promptly appear at
his side, Bradley felt that he was having a good time, and so he was, comparatively. Of course
he would find the glasses presently. He looked at his watch. What a joy to see its face! He
would still have time to do the report, if he hurried a little. He began to rise by painful stages.

"Lemme see! The last thing I done was to open the sideboa'd an' cut a piece o' pie an' eat
it. I must o' had my glasses on then. I ricollec' it was sweet-potato pie, an' it was scorched
on one side. Lordy! but what a pleasure it is to look for a thing when a person can look!"
He crossed over to the sideboard.

"Yas"--he had opened the door and was cutting another piece of pie. "Yas. Sweet-potato pie,
an' burnt on one side--the side thet's left. Yas, an' I'll leave it ag'in!" He chuckled as
he took a deep bite.

"Of co'se I must 'a' had 'em on when I cut the pie, or I couldn't 've saw it so distinc'--'an
I finished that slice a-settin' down talkin' to her at the sewin'-machine. Ricollec' I told
her how mother used to put cinnamon in hers. I'll go set there ag'in, an' maybe by lookin'
'round--They might 'a' dropped in her darnin'-basket."

It was while he sat here, running one hand through the basket and holding the slice of pie
in the other, that he heard a step, and, looking up, he saw his wife standing in the door.

"Why, Ephraim! What on earth!" she exclaimed. "I lef you there eatin' that pie fo' hours ago,
an' I come back an' find you settin' there yet! You cert'n'y 'ain't forgot to make out yo' report?"

"Forgot nothin', Maria." He swallowed laboriously as he spoke. "I 'ain't done a thing sence
you been gone but look for my glasses--not a blame thing. An' I'm a-lookin' for 'em yet."

Mrs. Bradley was frightened. She walked straight up to her husband and took his hand. "Ephraim,"
she said, gently, and as she spoke she drew the remainder of the pie from his yielding fingers--"Ephraim,
I wouldn't eat any mo' o' that heavy pie ef I was you. You ain't well. Ef you can't make no
mo' headway'n that on yo' favorite pie in fo' hours, you're shorely goin' to be took sick."
She took her handkerchief and wiped his forehead. And then she added, with a sweet, wifely
tenderness: "To prove to you thet you ain't well, honey, yo' glasses are on yo' nose right
now. You better go lay down."

