"How wise you look!" said Bridget aloud; "I wish you could help me."

What was her astonishment when the owl at once replied, in the same stifled voice:

"What do you want?"

Bridget paused.  What did she want?  Then she remembered that as the owl could talk, it must
certainly be a fairy, and could do anything, so she said:

"I want to be very graceful."

The owl did not answer immediately, and Bridget kept a watchful eye on her arms and legs, almost
expecting them to be changed into models of grace at once.  Nothing of the sort happened, however;
and the owl sat as though in deep thought.  At last it said:

"I can tell you a way, but it is difficult."

"I don't care how difficult it is," cried Bridget, now very much excited, "if you will only
tell me what it is I will do it."

"Try," said the owl solemnly.

"Try what?" asked Bridget anxiously.

"Try," repeated the owl, "nothing more; try."

Bridget's face fell; she was very much disappointed.  Every one had told her that till she
was sick of the word.  The owl could not be a fairy after all.

"Is that all?" she said.  "I always do that."

"Always?" asked the owl.

Bridget was silent a moment as she thought of the past week.

"Why, not quite always."

"But it must be always," said the owl, "that's the secret of it.  If at first you don't succeed,
try, try, try again.  You've heard that?"

"Of course I have," said Bridget sorrowfully; "I've heard it much too often."

The owl did not answer, perhaps it was offended.

"Can it be possible," thought Bridget, "that I really haven't tried enough?"

Just then something cold and moist was thrust into her hand, and she started up bewildered,
hardly able for the moment to make out where she was.  It was almost dark in the barn now,
but presently she made out the form of Toto the poodle, who had come to look for his mistress,
and now stood with his eager affectionate eyes fixed on her from under his frizzled black hair.

Bridget stretched out her arms to him, and leaning forward, kissed his shaven nose; she felt
wonderfully better, and looked up at the owl to thank it for its advice.  It sat there blinking
as though it had never spoken in its life.

"But you did, you know," she said nodding at it, and she got up and ran out of the barn with
Toto springing round her.

She thought a good deal afterwards of what the owl had said, and came to the conclusion that
perhaps she had been a good deal in fault.  At any rate she would "try again" and see how it
answered.  Bridget was a resolute little character, and she took the matter in hand at once;
but I can best tell you how it "answered" by describing a scene which took place a month later,
on the last dancing-day before the holidays.

The lesson was over, and the mistress was taking leave of her pupils; the usual visitors sat
round the room looking on.

"And now," she said, "before we part, I must say a few special words about one of my pupils,
and that is, Miss Bridget Watson, whose marked improvement during the past month I have been
pleased to notice.  I have always felt that she had great difficulties to contend with, for
when young people are growing fast, it is not easy to manage the limbs gracefully.  I have
to congratulate her upon her efforts, and to hope that you will all follow her example in trying
to do your best."

There was a murmur of satisfaction, for Bridget was a general favourite among her companions
and they were all pleased to hear her praised. Every one was pleased; Miss Tasker, who was
fond of Bridget, beamed behind her spectacles, and carried home the good news to Mrs Watson,
whose pleasure put a finishing touch to Bridget's exultation.  Indeed, for some minutes she
was more like a windmill than ever, through excess of joy, but it was holiday time, and even
Miss Tasker said nothing.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

You all know the story of the "Ugly Duckling," and how, after all, it became a beautiful white
swan.  I cannot say whether, in like manner, Bridget grew up to be graceful and pretty, but
one thing I am certain of, and that is, that she never regretted following the owl's advice
to "try again."

STORY FOUR, CHAPTER 1.

ALL ALONE--A SHORT STORY.

Nan was the youngest but one of the little Beresfords, and she was six years old when the baby
came, so she was quite a responsible person and ready to be a great help to nurse.  Her round
face and form assumed airs of dignity, and she strove valiantly to put away all babyish weaknesses
as things of the past.

But some of them were too strong for Nan, struggle as she would, and she found to her dismay
that though she was six years old, and "baby" no longer, she was still afraid of the dark.

It had always been a dreadful moment to her when, leaving the cheerful nursery, she must be
tucked up in her little bed and see nurse take away the candle.  She would lie and stare with
her bright round eyes into the thick blackness, and feel grateful if she could fix them on
any little faint thread of light coming through chink or crevice.  She could not have told
you what it was she feared, and perhaps this was the reason why she never spoke of it to anyone--not
even to mother.  Besides, in the bright morning light she forgot her fears, and being naturally
a cheerful and courageous child would have been ashamed to mention them. In a large family
children are not encouraged to make too much of their troubles, for there is not time to attend
to them; so no one knew that merry little Nan, who was afraid of nothing by daylight or candle-light,
often lay awake at night long after she should have been asleep, and felt very much afraid indeed.

And now I am going to tell you how on one occasion Nan conquered her fears all by herself,
with no help from anyone on earth; and you must remember that it is a far braver thing to do
what one is told in spite of being afraid, than not to be afraid at all.

At Ripley, which was the next village to that in which Mr Beresford, Nan's father, was rector,
lived Squire Chorley, who had a large family of boys and girls.  They were fond of getting
up concerts, and theatricals, and readings for the poor people, and in all these things the
Beresfords were always asked over to help.  And one Christmas holidays there was to be an unusually
grand entertainment given by the children, which included a display of "Mrs Jarley's Wax-works."

Nan would listen with absorbing interest to the discussion about who should represent the different
characters in wax-work, and she was allowed to be present at the rehearsals, but there was
no question of such a little thing taking a part.  She thought all the figures very beautiful,
especially Joan of Arc, who was dressed in splendid tinsel armour and a crimson skirt, and
was seated on a spotted rocking-horse. When she gracefully waved her sword Nan could hardly
believe that it really was her own sister Sophy, and afterwards when she read about Joan of
Arc in the history of England she always fancied her looking just like that, with long fair
hair streaming down her back.

There were a great many figures, as many as the stage would hold.  And, as it was the first
time the wax-works had been attempted, the children were particularly anxious that it should
go off well, and that the dresses should be especially brilliant.  So everyone worked hard,
and Nan did her utmost to help, and was as excited about it as anyone.

The evening before the performance there was to be a dress-rehearsal on the stage which the
carpenter had put up in the school-room, and six excited little Beresfords were packed into
the wagonette with the German governess, and driven over to Ripley.  Fraulein was rather excited
too, for she was to sing a song in an interval of the performance, and also to represent the
Chinese giant in the wax-works.

But when they reached the village school-room they found the other members of the company in
low spirits, for they had received a blow. Johnnie Chorley, who was to have been "Jack-in-the-box,"
had so bad a cold that he was not to play.

"I knew how it would be," said Agatha, the eldest girl, despondingly, "when Johnnie wouldn't
change his boots yesterday.  And now there will be no Jack-in-the-box; and it was one of the best."

"Can't someone else take it?" said Tom Beresford, looking round.

"No one small enough for the tub," was the answer; "Johnnie is such a mite, and made such good
faces."

Nan's heart beat fast.  It was on her lips to say, "I am small enough," but she did not dare.
She only pushed herself a little in front, and stared up at Tom and Agatha with solemn, longing
eyes.

The former, a tall boy of fifteen, who was stage-manager on these occasions, stood whistling
in a perplexed manner, and his eyes fell on the compact little figure in front of him.

"Hallo!" he said suddenly, "I have it.  Here's your Jack!"

He took Nan up and stood her on a form near.

"What, Nan?" said all the voices in different tones, and everyone looked at her critically.

Nan stood quite quietly, with her cheeks very red, and her eyes glistening, and her hands tucked
into her little muff.  She was so afraid that they would say she could not do it, and she felt
so sure that she could.  But it was settled that she might at least try; and, oh delightful
moment!  She was lifted into the barrel, which was very cold and smelt of beer, and told what
was expected of her.

"You know, Nan," said Tom, "that you are not to show the least little bit of your head until
you hear Mrs Jarley winding you up, and then you must pop up suddenly, and make a nice little
funny face as you have seen Johnnie do."

Now, Nan was a most observant child, and had taken careful notes of Johnnie's performance,
which she very much admired; so, although her heart beat very quickly, she bobbed up just at
the right minute with such a comical expression that there was a burst of applause, and "Well
done, Nan!" from the company.

Happy Nan!  They put a scarlet cloak on her, very full in the neck, and a queer little tow
wig with a top-knot, and painted a red patch on each cheek; and there she was, a member of
the wax-works, and the happiest little soul in the county.

She was to be a wax-work!  The honour was almost too much, and the only drawback was poor Johnnie's
disappointment.  She thought of that, driving home that evening, and was so quiet that Fraulein
thought she was asleep, but she was only resolving that she would offer Johnnie her spotted
guinea-pig to make up.

So the eventful evening came, and everything was wonderfully successful; Mrs Jarley's wax-works
was considered the best thing that had been seen in the village for years, and everyone laughed
very much.  Nan did her very best to make a good Jack, and though she got very cramped in the
tub, before her turn came to be exhibited, she made some most agile springs, and was heartily
applauded.  Then the Vicar of Ripley made a speech and thanked the performers, and all the
people cheered, and then everyone, including the wax-works, sang "God save the Queen," and
the entertainment was over.

There was a great bustling and chattering afterwards in the green-room, where the actors were
trying to find cloaks and shawls and hats, for they were all to go to Mr Chorley's to supper,
and no one seemed able to get hold of the right things.

Fraulein was fussing about her overshoes which she had lost, and there was a general struggle
and confusion.  Nan stood in a corner in her quaint little dress, waiting for someone to wrap
her up, and at last her sister Sophy saw her.

"Why!  There you are, you quiet little Nan," she said, "I will find your hood if I can.  Here
it is, and here is a shawl."  She bundled the child up warmly, and kissed her.  "You were a
jolly little Jack," she went on, "and now you are to go home with cousin Annie and sleep at
her house to-night.  Run into the school-room and find her."

Cousin Annie was the Vicar of Ripley's wife, and had a little girl of Nan's own age, so it
was a great treat to stay with her.  Nan poked her way among the people who were still standing
about in the school-room chatting together before they dispersed, but she could not see anyone
she knew.  Then she waited a long while at the door, but there was no cousin Annie, she had
evidently gone home.  Nan peeped out.  Down the road which led to Mr Chorley's she heard distant
voices and laughter, and saw the twinkling light of lanterns, but in the opposite direction
it was all quite dark and silent, and that was the way to cousin Annie's.  She knew it as well
as possible, and it was not very far, quite a short distance, in the daylight--you had only
to go down the lane, and turn a little to the right, and go in at the white gate near the pond.
A very simple matter in the daytime; but now!  Nan stepped back into the room; she would go
and tell them that cousin Annie had gone, and then someone would go with her.  But to her dismay
she found the green-room dark and silent; they had all gone out by the other door without coming
through the school-room, and Nan was alone.  She stood irresolute, clutching the heavy shawl
which Sophy had wrapped round her, and feeling half inclined to cry.  There was only one thing
to do now, and that was to go down the dark lane all by herself.  Nan had been brought up in
habits of the most simple obedience, and it never occurred to her to question any order.  "You
are to go to cousin Annie's," Sophy had said, so of course she must go.

She choked down a little sob, and pulled open the door again, and trotted out into the darkness.
Her heavy shawl rather impeded her, so she could not go very fast, and the road was rough and
uneven for her small feet.  She looked up to see if she could find any comfortable twinkling
star for a companion, but the sky was all black and overcast, and there was no moon.  Then
she said her evening prayer to herself, but it was very short and did not last long, and then
all the hymns she knew, and then all the texts, and by that time she was nearly at the bottom
of the lane, when, oh misfortune!  She caught her foot in the dangling end of the big shawl
and fell flat in the mud.  It was very hard to keep back the tears after that; but she gathered
herself up as well as she could and stumbled on, until at last she passed through the white
gate, which stood open, and reached the front door of the Vicarage.  But her troubles were
not over yet, for she found that, even by standing on the very tips of her toes, she could
reach neither bell nor knocker.  She rapped as hard as she could with her soft little knuckles,
but they made no more noise on the great door than a bird's beak would have done; and then
she tried some little kicks, but no one came.

She felt very lonely and miserable with the black night all round her, and it seemed to make
it worse to think of her brothers and sisters enjoying themselves so much at Mr Chorley's.
How sorry they would be for Nan if they knew!  And then she felt so sorry for herself, that
she was obliged to sit down on the stone steps and cry.  She was hungry, as well as frightened
and cold, for she had been much too excited to eat anything at tea-time, and now it was past
ten o'clock.  Oh to be in her little white bed at home!  She cuddled herself up as close to
the door as she could, and laid her cheek against it, shrinking back from the darkness which
seemed to press against her, and presently, how it came to pass she never know, her head began
to nod and she went fast to sleep.

The next thing she remembered was hearing a voice say, quite close to her: "Why, it's little
Nan!  How did the child get here?"  And then someone took her up, and carried her with strong
arms into a warm room with bright lights.  And then she found herself on cousin Annie's knee,
and saw people standing round asking eager questions and looking very much amused.  And no
wonder, for Nan was a very funny-looking little bundle indeed, in spite of her woe-begone appearance;
her round face was streaked with mud, and tears, and scarlet paint, and the odd little wig
had fallen over one eye in a waggish manner.  When the hood and shawl were taken off, a more
disconsolate little Jack-in-the-box could hardly be imagined, for what with hunger, fatigue,
and the comfort of feeling cousin Annie's kind arms round her, Nan's tears fell fast and she
could not stop them.

They could just make out between her sobs something about "Sophy" and "sleeping," but that
was all; and at last cousin Annie said, "Never mind, darling, you shall tell me all about it
by and by."  And then poor little weary Nan was carried upstairs, and washed, and put to bed,
and cousin Annie brought her some supper, and sat by her until she dropped gently off to sleep.

It turned out afterwards that Fraulein in the excitement of the moment had forgotten to deliver
the message about Nan, so that none expected her at the Vicarage.  When she went home the next
day Tom said she was quite a "little heroine."  Nan did not know what that meant, but she was
sure it was something pleasant.

And the best of it all was, that after this adventure Nan never felt so frightened of the dark
again.  But that she kept to herself.

STORY FIVE, CHAPTER 1.

PENELOPE'S NEEDLEWORK--A SHORT STORY.

One of the greatest trials of Penelope's life when she was ten years old was music, and the
other, needlework; she could not see any possible use in learning either of them, and none
of the arguments put forward by nurse, governess, or mother, made the least impression on her
mind.  It was especially hard, she thought, that she had to go on with music, because Ralph,
her younger brother, had been allowed to leave off. "Won't you have pity on me, and let me
leave off too?" she asked her mother one day imploringly.  But mother, though she was touched
by the pleading face, and though Penelope's music lessons were household afflictions, thought
it better to be firm.

"You see, darling," she said, "that now you have got on so much further than Ralph it would
be a pity to leave off.  You have broken the back of it."

"Ah, no," sighed poor Penelope, "it's broken the back of me."

And then the needlework!  Could there be a duller, more unsatisfactory occupation?  Particularly
if your stitches would always look crooked and straggling, and when the thimble hurt your finger,
and the needle got sticky, and the thread broke when you least expected it.  It was quite as
bad as music in its way.  Penelope would sigh wearily over her task, and envy the people in
the Waverley novels, who, she felt sure, never sewed seams or had music lessons.

For the Waverley novels were Penelope's favourite books, and she asked nothing better than
to curl herself up in some corner with one of the volumes, and to be left alone.

Then, once plunged into the adventures of "Ivanhoe," or "Quentin Durward," or the hero of "The
Talisman," her troubles vanished.

She followed her hero in all his varying fortunes, and was present at his side in battle; she
saw him struggling against many foes, fighting for the poor and weak, meeting treachery with
truth, and falsehood with faithfulness; she heard the clash of his armour, and watched his
good sword flash in the air at the tournament; she trembled for him when he was sore wounded,
and rejoiced with him when, after many a hard-won fray, he was rewarded by the hand of his
lady love.  Those were days indeed!  There was something quite remarkably flat and stupid in
sitting down to hem a pocket-handkerchief when you had just come from the tourney at Ashby
de la Zouche, or in playing exercises and scales while you were still wondering whether King
Louis the Eleventh would hang the astrologer or not.

Penelope loved all her books.  She had a shelf of her own in the play-room quite full of them,
but the joy and pride of her heart were the Waverley novels, which her father had given her
on her last birthday.

It was a great temptation to her to spend all her pocket-money in buying new books, but she
knew this would have been selfish, so she had made the following arrangement.  She kept two
boxes, one of which she called her "charity-box," and into this was put the half of any money
she had given to her; this her mother helped her to spend in assisting any poor people who
specially needed it.  The money in the other box was saved up until there was enough to buy
a new book, but this did not occur very often.  Penelope liked it all the better when it did,
for, though she could read some stories over and over again with pleasure, they did not all
bear constant study equally well, in some cases, she told her mother, "it was like trying to
dry your face on a wet towel."

One morning Penelope, or "Penny," as she was generally called, was sitting in the nursery window-seat
with a piece of sewing in her hands, it seemed more tiresome even than usual, for there was
no one in the room but nurse, and she appeared too busy for any conversation.  Penny had tried
several subjects, but had received such short absent answers that she did not feel encouraged
to proceed, so there was nothing to beguile the time, and she frowned a good deal and sighed
heavily at intervals.  At last she looked up in despair.

"What can you be doing, nurse?" she said, "and why are you looking at all those old things
of mine and Nancy's?"

Nurse did not answer.  She held out a little shrunken flannel dress at arm's-length between
herself and the light and scanned it critically, then she put it on one side with some other
clothes and took up another garment to examine with equal care.  Penny repeated her question,
and this time nurse heard it.

"I'm just looking out some old clothes for poor Mrs Dicks," she said.

"Do you mean our Mrs Dicks?" asked Penny.  "What does she want clothes for?"

"Well, Miss Penny," said nurse, proceeding to look through a pile of little stockings, "when
a poor woman's lost her husband, and is left with six children to bring up on nothing, she's
glad of something to clothe them with."

Penny felt interested.  "Our Mrs Dicks" had been her mother's maid, and after she married the
children had often been to visit her, and considered her a great friend.  Sometimes they went
to tea with her, and once she had given Nancy, Penny's second sister, a lovely fluffy kitten.

Penny was fond of Mrs Dicks, and it seemed dreadful to think that she must now bring up six
children on nothing.  She felt, however, that she must inquire into the thing a little more.

"Why must she bring up her six children on nothing?" she asked, letting her work fall into her lap.

"Because," said nurse shortly, "she hasn't got any money or anyone to work for her.  But if
I were you, Miss Penny, I'd get on with my needlework, and not waste time asking so many questions."

"Well," said Penny, making fruitless attempts to thread her needle, "I suppose mother will
help her to get some money.  I shall ask her to let me give her some out of the charity-box--only
I'm afraid there isn't much in it now."

"If you really wanted to help her," said nurse, who saw an excellent opportunity for making
a useful suggestion, "you might make some things for her baby; she hasn't much time for sewing,
poor soul."

"Oh, I couldn't possibly do that," said Penny decidedly, "because, you know, I hate needlework
so.  I couldn't do any extra, it would take all my time."

Nurse rolled up a tight bundle of clothes and left the room without answering, and Penny, with
her frowning little face bent over her work, went on thinking about Mrs Dicks and her six children.
She wondered whether they had enough to eat now; if they were to be brought up on nothing,
they probably had not, she thought, and she felt anxious to finish her task that she might
run and ask mother about it, and how she could best help with the money out of the charity-box.
So she cobbled over the last stitches rather hastily, and put the work away; but she found
after all that her mother was too busy to attend to her just then. The next step, therefore,
was to ascertain the state of the charity-box, and she took it down from the mantel-piece in
the play-room and gave it a little shake.  It made quite a rich sound; but Penny knew by experience
what a noise coppers can make, so she was not very hopeful as she unscrewed the top and looked
in.  And matters were even worse than she feared, for all the box contained was this: two pennies,
one halfpenny, and one stupid little farthing.  Penny felt quite angry with the farthing, for
it was bright and new, and looked at the first glance almost like gold.

"If you were a fairy farthing," she said, "you'd get yourself changed into gold on purpose
to help Mrs Dicks; but it's no use waiting for that."

That afternoon Penny was to go out with her mother, instead of walking with the other school-room
children and the governess.  It was a great honour and delight, and she had saved up so many
questions to ask about various subjects that she had scarcely time to tell her about Mrs Dicks
and the state of the charity-box.

They had just begun to talk about it, when Mrs Hawthorne stopped at a house near their own home.

"Oh, mother!" cried Penny in some dismay, "are we going to see Mrs Hathaway?"

"Yes," answered her mother, "she has promised to show me her embroideries, and I think you
will like to see them too."

Penny did not feel at all sure about that, she was rather afraid of Mrs Hathaway, who was a
severe old lady, noted for her exquisite needlework; however, it was a treat to go anywhere
with mother, even to see Mrs Hathaway.

The embroideries were, indeed, very beautiful, and exhibited with a good deal of pride, while
Penny sat in modest silence listening to the conversation.  She privately regarded Mrs Hathaway's
handiwork with a shudder, and thought to herself, "How very little time she must have for reading!"

Scarcely any notice had been taken of her yet; but presently, when everything had been shown
and admired, Mrs Hathaway turned her keen black eyes upon her, and said:

"And this little lady, now, is she fond of her needle?"

A sympathetic glance passed between Mrs Hawthorne and Penny, but she knew she must answer for
herself, and she murmured shyly though emphatically:

"Oh, no."

"No!  Indeed," said Mrs Hathaway, "and why not?"

She was a very upright old lady, and when she said this she sat more upright than ever, and
fixed her eyes on Penny's face.

Penny felt very uncomfortable under this gaze, and wriggled nervously, but she could find nothing
better to say than:

"Because I hate it so."

"I am afraid," put in Mrs Hawthorne, "that Penny doesn't quite understand the importance of
being able to sew neatly; just now she thinks of nothing but her books, but she will grow wiser
in time, and become a clever needlewoman, I hope."

Mrs Hathaway had not taken her eyes off Penny with a strong expression of disapproval; she
evidently thought her a very ill brought-up little girl indeed.  Now she turned to Mrs Hawthorne
and said:

"I question whether all this reading and study is an advantage to the young folks of the present
day.  I do not observe that they are more attractive in manner than in the time I remember,
when a young lady was thought sufficiently instructed if she could sew her seam and read her
Bible."

She turned to Penny again and continued: "Now, the other day I heard of a society which I think
you would do well to join.  It is a working society, and the members, who are some of them
as young as you are, pledge themselves to work for half an hour every day.  At the end of the
year their work is sent to the infant Africans, and thus they benefit both themselves and others.
Would you like to join it?"

"Oh, no, thank you," said Penny in a hasty but heartfelt manner.

"Why not?"

"Because I never could fulfil that promise.  I shouldn't like to belong to that society at
all.  I don't know the Africans, and if I work, I'd rather work for Mrs Dicks."  Penny spoke
so quickly that she was quite out of breath.

"And who, my dear child," said Mrs Hathaway, surprised at Penny's vehemence, "is Mrs Dicks?"

She spoke quite kindly, and her face looked softer, so Penny was emboldened to tell her about
the whole affair, and how Mrs Dicks was a very nice woman, and had six children to bring up
on nothing.

"I wanted to help her out of the charity-box," concluded Penny, "but there's scarcely anything
in it."

Mrs Hathaway looked really interested, and Penny began to think her rather a nice old lady
after all.  After she and her mother left the house she walked along for some time in deep thought.

"What are you considering, Penny?" asked Mrs Hawthorne at last.

"I think," said Penny very deliberately, "that as there's so little in the charity-box I should
like to work for Mrs Dicks' children."

Mrs Hawthorne knew what an effort this resolve had cost her little daughter.

"Well, dear Penny," she answered, "if you do that I think you will be giving her a more valuable
gift than the charity-box full of money."

"Why?" said Penny.

"Because you will give her what costs you most.  It is quite easy to put your hand in your
box and take out some money; but now, besides the things you make for her, you will have to
give her your patience and your perseverance, and also part of the time you generally spend
on your beloved books."

"So I shall!" sighed Penny.

But she kept her resolve and did work for Mrs Dicks.  Very unpleasant she found it at first,
particularly when there was some interesting new story waiting to be read.

Gradually, however, there came a time when it did not seem quite so disagreeable and difficult,
and she even began to feel a little pride in a neat row of stitches.

The day on which she finished a set of tiny shirts for the baby Dicks was one of triumph to
herself, and of congratulation from the whole household; Mrs Dicks herself was almost speechless
with admiration at Miss Penny's needlework; indeed the finest embroideries, produced by the
most skilful hand, could not have been more praised and appreciated.

"Penny," said Mrs Hawthorne, "have you looked in the charity-box lately?"

"Why, no, mother," answered she, "because I know there's only twopence three farthings in it."

"Go and look," said her mother.

And what do you think Penny found?  The bright farthing was gone, and in its place there was
a shining little half-sovereign.  How did it come there?

That I will leave you to guess.

STORY SIX, CHAPTER 1.

THE BLACK PIGS--A TRUE STORY.

"I know what we must do--we must sell them at the market!"

"Where?"

"At Donnington."

"We shall want the cart and horse."

"Ask father."

"No.  You ask him--you know I always stammer so when I ask."

The speakers were two dark, straight-featured little boys of ten and twelve, and the above
conversation was carried on in eager whispers, for they were not alone in the room.

