After remaining a week at Dijon, until thirty of our number deserted the vacant ranks of life,
we continued our way towards Geneva. At noon on the second day we arrived at the foot of Jura.
We halted here during the heat of the day. Here fifty human beings--fifty, the only human beings
that survived of the food-teeming earth, assembled to read in the looks of each other ghastly
plague, or wasting sorrow, desperation, or worse, carelessness of future or present evil. Here
we assembled at the foot of this mighty wall of mountain, under a spreading walnut tree; a
brawling stream refreshed the green sward by its sprinkling; and the busy grasshopper chirped
among the thyme. We clustered together a group of wretched sufferers. A mother cradled in her
enfeebled arms the child, last of many, whose glazed eye was about to close for ever. Here
beauty, late glowing in youthful lustre and consciousness, now wan and neglected, knelt fanning
with uncertain motion the beloved, who lay striving to paint his features, distorted by illness,
with a thankful smile. There an hard-featured, weather-worn veteran, having prepared his meal,
sat, his head dropped on his breast, the useless knife falling from his grasp, his limbs utterly
relaxed, as thought of wife and child, and dearest relative, all lost, passed across his recollection.
There sat a man who for forty years had basked in fortune's tranquil sunshine; he held the
hand of his last hope, his beloved daughter, who had just attained womanhood; and he gazed
on her with anxious eyes, while she tried to rally her fainting spirit to comfort him. Here
a servant, faithful to the last, though dying, waited on one, who, though still erect with
health, gazed with gasping fear on the variety of woe around.

Adrian stood leaning against a tree; he held a book in his hand, but his eye wandered from
the pages, and sought mine; they mingled a sympathetic glance; his looks confessed that his
thoughts had quitted the inanimate print, for pages more pregnant with meaning, more absorbing,
spread out before him. By the margin of the stream, apart from all, in a tranquil nook, where
the purling brook kissed the green sward gently, Clara and Evelyn were at play, sometimes beating
the water with large boughs, sometimes watching the summer-flies that sported upon it. Evelyn
now chased a butterfly--now gathered a flower for his cousin; and his laughing cherub-face
and clear brow told of the light heart that beat in his bosom. Clara, though she endeavoured
to give herself up to his amusement, often forgot him, as she turned to observe Adrian and
me. She, who did not respect anything in the world, respected
the clerk for a natural feeling acquired from the cradle and, if you will, suckled with milk. Father
offered a chair and a Brother who accompanied Fr.

- No, I'm sorry - Gracian raspy voice said, waving his shovel hat, as if an amount to cutting off
heads -, we will soon. I do not come here as the father Carantoña make and receive chocolate puddings,
I come to throw a fruitful seed in this wasteland; I come to throw a word in this desert,
with hope of ever being heard .... I am interested in you because you are sinners. The healthy
do not need a doctor, the leper himself. I met Mrs. D. Nazaria at home Peter King, and I knew
their evil way. Lopez met home of D. Very happy, and I knew their error. Well, here I come today
with the same purpose brought me last week I come to say: "Home, home, house, who are losing
your soul and giving bad example. " I am a missionary of Christ, an apostle of Gentiles, and
I see no need to go to Asia or Africa to find wild. Those are better than you, because they are born
blind, and you, you were born with sight, close your eyes to light. Your illicit union is a
mortal sin for you and a scandal to the faithful. Marry, souls of fellow, and live as God commands
and society wants.

In the face of the Peppers seemed to range battling anger and respect,
and disturbed language and apologized:

- Well, I know .... Wow, what
a trumpet Father ..

I'm not deaf .... I am well aware that His Reverence speaks with reason. But I'm going to separate
tables, I disown Tables, which is a bum, which is eating me what I earn and what I inherited
from my late.

- It separates, for the Blessed Virgin - Gracian said more soft modes -. If he is a drunk,
lazy and a rake, go enhoramala. Yesterday I heated the ears at home Mr. Butcher. But he did not
want to break this illicit union, but marriage. Has good background.

Decide one thing or another, are full of sins, live like beasts, not as Christians.

- Father, for God's sake - said Nazaria terrified by the words of the cleric -. I'm not hot head.
I am this afternoon that if I come to the fire, burn. The evil that I suffer ....

- Yes, I know you suffer an intolerable evil. But what comes from this bad? Comes from thy base
vices, first gluttony, anger and other field after and deplorable sins. Then do not want to stick
to the medicine nor the opinion of knowledgeable physicists, but you give superstition. Know
that it is an offense against God and the saints believe that Palitroques passed by the feet
of an image cure diseases, and rosemary stew to the beat a creed serves to make good kilo. Error,
silliness, irreverence, sacrilege! ... I do not see in this house rather than desecration
scandal - said angrily, his eyes and looking stirring the pictures that lined the walls -. What
do these portraits of bullfighters confused with the most venerable saints? What are these crutches
and those stocks, flags and goads, and as a flag placed in the way of an offering at the foot
of the Blessed Virgin?

"And that bull's head hanging on every horn has an Infant Jesus of icing? ... Women's scandalous
up in the decorations of this house is called the desecration prevailing
here, the scandal and vice.

- This was my husband's house - he said
lifting his nose Nazaria provocative, where he entered a air jet snort
sounded forge.

- Well also be your husband - Gracian said, making
a gesture of mockery -.

Feelings people of this house are revealed even in the slightest. As if to deal all that is objectionable
here, what would you say, Mr. Nazario, what would the barbaric harshness with which it is treated
that poor girl, or sickly woman, daughter of Mr. Tables? ... I you try as dukes, and she is
confused with the more pitiful beggars. What? Is this Christian Is this honest? But where there
is no real family can not have feelings of humanity or charity. Home, house, reconciled with God
and the Church, I get tired of saying it. If they do, then everything will make you easy. Save
your soul, and not defile other souls who are still pure. Healing of your injury, and so any
that is near you it will be contaminated .... I tell a third time, and I admonish the fourth
and fifth because I, who have so often despised death, what if I can make your resistance? Nazaria,
turns on you, hear my advice. Citing your heart with a cry, run to the church do not stop. I
find in my confessional. Goodbye.

Without any reverence, fearless, formidable, as the warrior who has
done his duty in the thick of combat, followed by Brother out.

When descending the stairs, tables upstairs.

-XII-

Giant opened the door of the room where the giant was, and
before entering round burst a suspicious look, lowering his chin to
his chest and hiding his eyes under dark brows.

The menacing expression on his forehead, the prominence of her forehead and he looked sullen swollen
gave his head frightening resemblance to the bull's head when it appears in jarameño circus,
and acknowledges with fire look anxious public, and it seems that he, before start the fight,
is appalled by the barbarism that is prepared.

Nazaria nose swelled up to no power. At that time much needed air.

Tables took a few steps toward her, and throwing both hands to the narrow waist, wiggled to
either side as rubber doll, and spat these words:

- Christ! ... if I've ever said I do not want clerigones at home .... Why has received?

Peppers took hold of a fan and said this:

- For me the real win .... In peace.

- In war .... If they return to find ... will be the street from the
balcony ... and you back.

- Valiente pied!

But man, do not kill so many people that the world ends.

- What were these crooks?

- The rascal you ... wild.

Both at home praying rosaries D. Very happy, and called rogue to
Mr. priests!

...

- What were they?

- In what has given us the win.

- Come, come - Tables strutting said again - that I am as a joker, that if I play, for every
finger I get a shot.

- What to you is the spirit leaves you drunk.

- Nazaria!

...

- Úrgame as well, and see what is cinnamon.

- Nazaria! ...

- Where have you been today? Say it quickly - Pimenta shouted talking in spurts -. Who is that
futraque who came to fetch?

- A so you do not mind .... Making rods with black tunics and leave me alone.

- Drunk!

- Well, and you said !..-- Tables, chewing his anger -.

Come, I will not bother me .... Why which has received the clergy?

- Because it's my holy will. I'm queen of my house.

- Warbler nothing less ....

Tables looked at a stick in the corner
of the room was, and would certainly act as third character in this
scene.

- Yes, I'm queen and mistress of all - roared Nazaria pale
and furious, spreading his arms -.

Mine is the bread you eat, the clothes you wear mine, mine to snuff you smoke, and my glasses, the
Drinking ....

He could not say more because the cough drowned. Its large jumping within trepidation as bladder clown.

-
Everything is Mrs., ha, ha said ...-- López wanting to turn into grotesque mockery statement
both humiliated him -. Then talk about that, but now tell me why they were Queen here again the black
sacripantes.

- Because I called them are we? ... because I like the sermon and wanted to give to the spirits.

- Anima mea! ... Christ .... With that there Pedrique in my house .... Well look I'm going to
give Extreme. Do not you ask the body hinsopo? ... Well see.

He looked back at the club, which was, as it were, to the cloth, waiting
to going on stage.

- Thief, if you move, you like ...-- Nazaria shouted
in a voice so magnificent, that table, and on the way to bring the
third person, he stopped in the middle of the room -.

Get on the front door now, lazy, freeloading, the bread I have eaten,
would have been better to cast it to dogs .... Did not you happy to
spend my money and ruin the house, but threatened me ...?

Lifetime Uncle David's harp, I had more money and more Comenencia four kings, and Thou hast filled
with traps! For you and your vices I'm determined to thousands more weights, swindling, and when
they make a garnish, the widow of Candelario Peribáñez the need to put the donut, to the chestnut,
the spirit or the tripe .... I see you removed the eyes, bad woman hi. Tell me, henpecked, where
are my jewels which gave envy at the Pillar in Zaragoza? Where are my four shawls that looked like
they had embroidered angels hands of Rose ... Ah! Must be where all the treasure? Peniscola, for
Mr. drink, for Mr. ride a horse and cows go down to the very mess invite to the crankshaft and
having girls .... Ea, were scarecrows. That door is going to street ....

- Do you know what I mean? ... because you're a talkative parrot and you have to cut your throat.

-
Do you know what I mean? it more than others I have livers that you
tended me a soplamocos.

Best HAD shame and decent person you were like me. Where do you spend your nights? ... What Why
spend the money?

... And then comes the idiot saying that it is with those men in politics and is putting together
a gatuperio like the times Mamancia fell .... What do you mean you
that, kaffir, if you walk on two feet because the Lord will make you
forget the cross on its back?

... Look, not over the wood that made the gallows in the square.

There you would like see it hanging like a sausage to go throw yourself in and see you doing
more piernazas grimaces a comedian with hunger. Mr. tragacanth Policy! Since when do we have such
wisdom? What you will do is trick the poor D. Felicísimo gave you crap you ate the first in
the world and sell to the Masons, telling what happens at home. Ah! bribonazo, if gape believe me,
I know your tricks and I know where you tighten the shoe.

- Ah ... Re-blood! if I say I'll take the cat that pounced Tables lengüecita said ...-- his heavy
hands to the face of the Pimenta.

- Stand back those windmill blades - she replied with extraordinary energy rejecting hands your
man.

- Damn the time ....

And with reckless raging anger, tables made a gesture, or instantly hooked on his paw the black
bow of the giant. The giant roared like a lioness, she arose, there was tremendous shock bodies and
stiff arms horrible crossing. Were balanced, there was a double groan and a sinister rattle,
a sign of violent efforts.

But he hurled Gigantona, brandished his burly arms, took a vacation
from his nose, and quick as thought, sprang up, two, three.

The floor was shaking like passing a car. Nazaria came to a table and picked up an object
bulky above it was. What was that? It was a box of wood and glass, high three quarters. Inside it
was a virgin of Sorrows, and over a bull plaster two bullfighters, a baby Jesus, a enormísima
crest. He raised his hands in every one bier big woman religious-taurine, and in less time than
it takes to think about it, everything fell with a crash formidable on the head table. The
rebuke or feline voice that launched to receive the blow is not to described. Broken glass on his
skull ripped his face. Without feeling blood flow ran for the club, but before arriving, since
you brought Pimenta peaked with a chair with both hands. The giant took another seat. They stopped
for a moment facing each other, throwing each other's fiery breath and crossing their rays eyes
full of anger. Suddenly the giant dropped the cabinet, he had a happy thought, saving. He stepped
back, squirmed in her sewing basket, drew a huge knife, and running
follow-up giant, who slipped frightened, cried with bellow:

- I slaughter
....

They went to some neighbors, for whom the maze was not new,
but until then not so loud quarrel had occurred at the home of Nazaria,
entered Romualda also shouting, and all were dedicated to the great
work of pacification.

Each contender was surrounded of a group and heard the calls more reasonable. Extraordinary
thing! The first who symptoms were noted was the collapse of appeasement
Lopez, the victim of speech and work.

Growling like a beaten hound, said he did not want to miss, it was
too man well to get lost, and that there was any woman in the world
deserves to be lost for her a man.

Nazaria said nothing, but with the vent showed puffs of his anger
that seemed to come in sleeves of evacuating the air filled breast.

The knife lay on the floor next to the remains of what was urn and
bits of plaster bull, trampled in the contest, the fine stained white
mat.

- And the villain is bleeding! - Pimenta said throwing his mouth
those sparks of laughter jumping through the flames of anger illuminating
the face -.

It looks like a Decehomo.

- It's nothing, is nothing - said the front table taking a tissue that gave the phenomenon.

- Rumaldo - shouted the giant - and brings down a little wine and oil.

Seeing the fury of one and one to be appeased gradually receded neighbors.

-
It bothers one for any nonsense - Lee muttered, letting you apply
the Nazaria tissue in the front -.

When you go to repair and has done a lot ... and lost man.

- We speak to one with bad manners, and a mustard is up to the nose, and you go beyond language.

-
And with that one is wise and knows the tricks of the beast and he
said ...-- foot Lopez trying to explain his cowardice.

- And if a
good way to ask him what they were after the parents faces, one answer
Pedrique coming to, and at peace.

But people are uncomfortable with a word .... Some languages shooting kicks .... Can not be remedied
....

- I'm an angel, but when I am asked, thrusting. What a genius God has given me! Myself I fear
I have sometimes .... Rumaldo ....

Rumaldo had come with the oil and wine, and getting ready Nazaria claiming the remedy every
head on which an urn has been shattered.

- Rumaldo, I have no snuff - said the athlete -; get off the tight ... soon, baby .... For as
I was saying, if a man like me, it's all fireworks, he had been asked to decency where he had
spent the day and what businesses brought to futraque, man would have answered like a gentleman. If
there is no mystery here ...! What a gentleman, whom I met at the house of D. Felicísimo comes to
me and says, 'Mr. Lopez, are you going to do me a big favor .-- You have, sir ...-- For the past two months,
police raided a house in the street of Bethlehem, where they gathered a few supporters D. Carlos.
The police were bribed in that hand and did not catch anyone. But the government has changed
the chillies of harangues by others and last night the police returned to search the house
from the street of Bethlehem, and caught five subjects, and put them in jail .-- De Villa which
I am glad, Mr. D. Salvador .-- Well, look, Mr. table, I come to you to do me the favor of providing
one of the five subjects means of escape, because there is a run run, knowing they will be shot
.-- Is it related to you? - Yes sir. Have you ever been employed in the prison of Villa? - Yes,
sir .-- You favored escape of Olózaga .-- Yes, sir .-- You can now
do likewise .-- Yes, sir .-- Then it must be done .-- How We are winning?
- Both .-- .-- As soon as it .-- We fix .-- Who is the guy? - Well
is so and so .-- Go ahead, start working today.

Come to the cafe and tavern talk to the guys in the jail ...». Overall, we've been inventing
all day mischief, and then went to Don Felicísimo, which is also
committed to put in safety to the prisoner. And other ones and I get
metal, woman, much metal, to carry it we have committed, and remove
traps ... out traps, come here dinerazo people Carlina, and coupled
with the little money people Freemason, you will see how our farm
goes again standing ....

The reconciliation was already secure, hardened
and tempers quickly softened heat confidence. Now the riving and fall of icy rocks clave the air;
now the thunder of the avalanche burst on our ears. In countries whose features are of less
magnitude, nature betrays her living powers in the foliage of the trees, in the growth of herbage,
in the soft purling of meandering streams; here, endowed with giant attributes, the torrent,
the thunder-storm, and the flow of massive waters, display her activity. Such the church-yard,
such the requiem, such the eternal congregation, that waited on our companion's funeral!

Nor was it the human form alone which we had placed in this eternal sepulchre, whose obsequies
we now celebrated. With this last victim Plague vanished from the earth. Death had never wanted
weapons wherewith to destroy life, and we, few and weak as we had become, were still exposed
to every other shaft with which his full quiver teemed. But pestilence was absent from among
them. For seven years it had had full sway upon earth; she had trod every nook of our spacious
globe; she had mingled with the atmosphere, which as a cloak enwraps all our fellow-creatures--the
inhabitants of native Europe--the luxurious Asiatic--the swarthy African and free American
had been vanquished and destroyed by her. Her barbarous tyranny came to its close here in the
rocky vale of Chamounix.

Still recurring scenes of misery and pain, the fruits of this distemper, made no more a part
of our lives--the word plague no longer rung in our ears--the aspect of plague incarnate in
the human countenance no longer appeared before our eyes. From this moment I saw plague no
more. She abdicated her throne, and despoiled herself of her imperial sceptre among the ice
rocks that surrounded us. She left solitude and silence co-heirs of her kingdom.

My present feelings are so mingled with the past, that I cannot say whether the knowledge of
this change visited us, as we stood on this sterile spot. It seems to me that it did; that
a cloud seemed to pass from over us, that a weight was taken from the air; that henceforth
we breathed more freely, and raised our heads with some portion of former liberty. Yet we did
not hope. We were impressed by the sentiment, that our race was run, but that plague would
not be our destroyer. The coming time was as a mighty river, down which a charmed boat is driven,
whose mortal steersman knows, that the obvious peril is not the one he needs fear, yet that
danger is nigh; and who floats awe-struck under beetling precipices, through the dark and turbid
waters--seeing in the distance yet stranger and ruder shapes, towards which he is irresistibly
impelled. That was silly. God revealed it to me through these
pains of mine, and my reason I said so, so many things ... Do not hesitate, no for a moment
the sincerity of your consent. I am convinced that you would have happily married with the
old, that you would have liked, it would have been faithful, would you care that much when he
passed, the poor, old to old man, which can not later .... But, my dear, your consent and those
wonderful words you said sprouted in your gratitude, filial affection that I have. Ay! There
are good marriages, no, with these ingredients. We must not force nature, do not force feelings natural,
making love, gratitude, it is necessary, above all, giving each his own age and not endeavor
to rejuvenate the venerable old age, or wither the beautiful youth, joining a thing with another
off-season. No, a thousand times no. You, wanting to be my wife, taming a feeling robust living
and lives in your heart, you made a sublime sacrifice. I thank you, because understand how sincere
was the sacrifice, but I do not want to accept .... They say that I went hero at one time, because
that Botero is cakes and fancy bread in comparison This burst of energy that you just saw,
my daughter, because this has cost me more fighting, because I know how to make a sacrifice.
Do not quit without a good secure job, a well as delicious, all you promised me your youth,
your true love, your merits immense your beauty, daughter ... For now I'm not boyfriend, I
can tell you that every time you go putting prettier .... In short, my dear, I thought better love
and serve you better and better love and serve God, you gave me as a husband and father ....
And I still have nothing better to say. This I've done would be incomplete, incomplete. If
it were so .... But no, I do not things by halves. My heroics, when out of me, are not nonsense.
To make my daughter I want to fill the void in your life, your feelings and make you crown
cattle of happiness I want to fill that glass to the brim of your life that little by little
has been emptied of their old sorrows, I want to marry the man you love, with that of he and
I can assure you that you deserve.

One was left shocked.

So great was the novelty of that idea, he needed some time to have it by flattery. Turned pale
as death, and thus disturbed the face, that having shame that D. Benigno surprised it was experiencing
very profound impression, lowered his head. Lamb put the palms of his hands on her temples, and luring,
gave him a kiss on the forehead, saying:

- Thank God I can give this besillo, to show a material way the love you profess honest, loving
father, I wanted to spoil foolishly. Do not be ashamed what you feel to hear what I say. It is natural
.... With this one kiss quito shame. Bring in your future husband to stop me kiss you .... If
anyone saw us, What would you say? ... But we, we would laugh and answer not go red, "no longer
we are engaged, we're not dating. "

Sola laughed. Then he grew serious. In his condition did not know what events would be more convenient,
and so left his face to express what I wanted.

- I see you've become very serious and as angry - said the Hero -. Do not like my project?

- Is that Sola ...-- stammered, not hiding the big fear, that suddenly
filled his soul -.

Is ... could happen .... And who assures me ...?

- What could happen,
stupid?

- It could be that he does not love me anymore.

- Nice idea!

Do I have a fool? Do you believe me capable of bending to be the wife of a man not knowing if this
man loves you, and what's more, you deserve?

- So you talked to him! ... Have you been told? ... and what he said?

... You guys are have dealt with this before you talk to me? ... Does he know? ... Do you and
him? ...

Sola thus expressed their curiosity, no question without hitting a thousand questions, disjointed
and trampled, got into his lips, trying out all at once.

- Everything is planned with paternal rest said ...-- D. Benigno -. Quiet, quiet. I can not tell
in a few words I have spoken with that good sir, but I can tell you is love you a lot like
idolatry .... When this thought began to haunt me brain went to see my man. I do not know what
excitement, what lack of trim and poise found in it. I swear I did not like, and out, I said
to myself. "You do not deserve, did not deliver I am the angel of my house. " I returned shortly
after and talked about various things. His talk me loved it. He found him, as always, loyal
and discreet. But I felt like it was busy too policy, and said, 'odd, are green for you. I do not
want my daughter living on tenterhooks, wondering if they hang or shoot her husband .... Guarda,
Paul. " In a third visit ... these my visits were skillful explorations and trials to know whether
it was worthy or not treasure that I was going to give away, so I revealed my plans ever ...
because he said that a third interview spoke warmly, and he is so
spontaneous with me, opened his heart so frankly, I shared his ideas
and plans of life with such sincerity that when they I said to my
coat, "Yes, we must give it.

He is, in fact and law.

" After ran between friends malicious rumors about him .... They said they had done Carlist ....

-
He!

- Slander and nonsense. I went to see him talk.

One day I directed my project. He seemed to understand and turned pale, very pale.

- Pale! - Repeated Sola, who had his clear eyes on D. Benigno, not
lost or lighter vocal inflection of her lips.

- Well ... seemed to
be touched, and hugged me, okay? hugged me.

I told him we would become see you soon.

- And that was ...?

- Last week, my daughter, on my last trip to Madrid. Remember how I was going to buy hinges Door
and window fasteners news?

In fact, he bought a lot of iron, but the mobile home my trip was to learn of his own mouth,
this man you boyfriend ... give him this name ... know from his own mouth if it was true that
he had made Carlist.

- What filthy slander! - Sola said earnestly, mistaken for a phrase to inventors of such evil
nonsense.

- He disabused me remove that doubt .... because, indeed, the daughter
of my heart, if My son goes to the blunder of joining the odious flag
and thrown into the field to defend dead religion .... I do not want
to think, barástolis!

... Bonito have done business! Fortunately for him, I was convinced that there has never considered
joining the order sacristanesca, and when I left the house, said: "Yours, sirrah, you've won you,
rascal! God sends me that you deliver it. Now, that St. Peter bless you. "

- And also that day I told you clearly ...?-- Sola asked, pausing mid-question, because he burned
his lips a little the second half or the corner of the whole question.

-
I did not say anything clearly, because I seemed discreet open wide
the doors without sky before you.

But I opened a crack, I gave him to understand my intentions and the blessed man seemed, as they
say, he saw heaven opened, thereby dark eyes shone.

It was wrapped in early October, and when I said goodbye, I said, "one of these days again.
I will come, perhaps, or without, perhaps, will bring you news much pleased him. "

- Today is 1. St October - Sola said, with a quick phrase, as a spark for word from her lips out.

-
No, that's tomorrow - Lamb said laughing -, I have the Calendar on
your finger.

Do not want to now jump on each other.

Time is a man who has to deal with much respect. Look at the calm and the method that walks. Sometimes
it seems that is slow, sometimes it runs like a greyhound, but it
is our hope: his lordship never leaves its path.

Tomorrow, dear child, we will go to Madrid.

- Me too!

- For it is clear. I want you you see, that I speak. Then you will understand you, and my role
be reduced to prepare some things that are necessary for the wedding
....

With a sigh, and shaking his hands after the de Sola, who were
cold, no doubt because all the heat is picked up in his heart exulted,
Lamb said these words:

- I'll lead a prayer.

Did you attend?

- What a question! - Sola said, beginning to mourn before meeting the request.

- Well, I beg you, that after marriage, because my children can not be your children, as planned,
they look like your brothers.

Sola answered with the river of tears, did not allow words.

Neither were necessary words.

- If you see me mourn - said D. Benigno, wiping a tear with a heroic
gesture - do not think I am poor and distressed.

In my chest do not fit or lad nor envy of mourning frustrated desires.
I am calm and happy, happy.

If I cry is attracting your tears are running mine without knowing
why.

I was a bit different from punishment, yes, but I am comforted to know that if my children have
lost their second mother, good sister are born, Is not it?

Was beginning to fall afternoon and felt the cool of the Tagus.

D. Benigno proposed to withdraw home, and leaving the pearl hard,
took the rough and winding road.

- As the nights grow - Sola said,
giving his arm to his father.

- Yes, my daughter - said this - and
the morning takes a little longer, but comes, do not worry.

- I do
not remember how long it takes from here to Madrid.

- Well, not much.

Peralvillo take the car, which is far sooner.

Do not know the novelty in the world?

Well now you have invented in England about treadmills, evil car
that goes like the wind, walk, walk .... I do not know what goes,
but if there one from Toledo to Madrid, we would go in two hours.

-
In two hours!

That's fable.

- Fable? D. told me Salvador, who has seen it.

- He has seen this machine?

- And it has gone.

- He has walked on it?

It will be wonderful thing.

- Imagine ....

D. Benigno stopped, and the complacency that produced in him the wonders
of the emerging century industry was prepared to give her daughter
demonstrative explanations, to which put horizontal stick and ran
his fingers over it.

- Imagine there on the floor two bars of iron
which are in accordance with enormous wheels Car ... as well as houses.

These cars are tied together. A little to push them as wheels meet the iron bars, wham! that runs
like lightning.

- I understand ... mules ....

- If no mules, silly .... And will
explain D. Salvador, which has mounted on such vehicles.

That mischief have put the English among a people who call Liverpool
and another named Manchester.

D. says Salvador that this is flight.

- Fly! Pride !...-- thing Sola said enthusiastically -.

Saying "I want to go to that part now same "and ...

- And out one
with it.

Well, I say, there are no horses.

Anyone string of cars is moved by a devilish device or mechanism,
which is in heat and steam, and blowing blows, he walks.

I do not know how this is. D. explained it to me Salvador, but I have not been understand.

- And the way to go here and there will not elsewhere?

- Yes, says our friend who is spreading, which in England are doing
more of these blessed railroads, and in France, will start putting
well.

- And in Spain?, Do not do them?

Lamb sighed.

- Now going to start a war, if God does not intervene - he said sadly.

- Upon completion ....

- Maybe start over .... But, after all, we also have here these paths, although only to sample.
D. Salvador says he will spread throughout the land, and that even wildest regions that machine
will run to blows.

- And see here, this caminejo?

- Why not?

- And we say: "In Madrid ...».

- Yes, but that miracle will not happen tomorrow, dear child - Lamb said smiling -. For now content
ourselves with three mules to Peralvillo.

They entered the house, where they found D. Primitive Lamb, nephew
of D. Benigno, who came to spend a few days in Cigarrales, and brought
great news of the Court, including death del Rey.

Dined all a little saddened by the melancholy influence of such news, gloomy comments that accompanied
them former militia captain, and the ominous portents he did.

When D. Benigno stated his intention of going to Madrid the coming day, he announced Primitivo
with informal pessimism probably find the troops insurrection in the streets, the lawlessness,
and the entire village, the Court and the monarchy, given all the demons.

At dawn the next day Sola rose, and opening wide the window from his room overlooking the field,
and whose sill climbed the highest branches of the almond balmy air breathed in the morning
and looked at the trails, the ground, the tower of the cathedral
distinguished, in the distance and amid the dark green of the landscape
looked like a cypress stone left to run after their eyes on the floor
below to the horizon, yellowish term stony hills and blue, was with
her spirit beyond the horizon itself, which returned to sadness.

One might have thought that I missed those iron bars that D. Benign spoke the previous evening
and that, if any, men would imitate the wonderful travel of the birds. Nothing was in the
crooked paths that indicate that the fairies had held last night in those pathways tend metal, miracle
of locomotion, incredible own path to be traveled on the wings of
spirit, with the feet of the subject.

Arose shortly after Lamb.

Peralvillo's car could not take, and had to be underpinned chocolate and pastries for the long and
troublesome journey. Gave one point to the meditations addressing the various necessities of the
hour, and when D. Benigno and she found alone, the hero could not help but ask him what was in their
eyes traces of tears, being more favorable circumstances than adverse. Sola said that he could
not sleep all night because the terrible things that had Primitivo and omens was filled with
dread mysterious spirit. It was true that he said, but had also greatly influenced his insomnia
abrupt and painful the radical change in their destiny, their ideas all the conversation that
she and her protector were worthy to the river bank.

Sola Cordero did not want to hide everything I felt and thought.

- I'm so numb since yesterday afternoon - he said - I do not know how I feel. I spent night imagining
or dreaming disaster trips and falls.

I can not convince them that God take me that way now so different from what went before, without
having to go right to a very great misfortune. I was born with ill fortune.

- Tales, my dear, things of the imagination - said D. Benigno, draining
your chocolate -.

We deliver a vacuous musings and have confidence in God.

That good and bad stars is not very Christian to say.

- Is true, but I can not avoid suspecting danger, being afraid of everything, and this misfortunes.
It is a specialty of mine. If I had not counted Primitivo many horrors .... Now with the death
of King, it will ignite a war such that Spain will be a nation of orphans and widows. Yes, that
is .... Flow rivers of blood, rivers such as water, and brothers
kill brothers .... everything has to rule whether the uncle or niece
uncle niece.

What dreadful nonsense! And these things happen in meetings with
people countries and nations are called!

... And this is the vaunted wisdom of men in Europe they laugh at the wild! I, ignorant woman,
I say that these scholars do not have common sense.

- Daughter of
my soul - said D. Benigno - are you talking as the patriarch of philosophy
as Jean Jacques Rousseau.

Yes, the current state of nations and common sense are incompatible.

In their enthusiasm, Lamb tremolo napkin that had just detached buttonhole
of his coat.

That canvas was the banner of common sense, the flag without color and heraldry.

- I could not remove from me all night - Sola said - an idea that
makes me shudder penalty.

Who assures us that the man whom we seek, and will not be compromised in the civil war? Is it not
likely to be firing shots in the streets?

Can not happen that is already dead?

- Shut up, stupid .... A man so wise .... Do not you realize you ...?

-
I do not understand anything, I feel and nothing else.

The heart usually has some guesses as weird .... Sometimes very mischievous, insists on one
thing, and God takes care after giving like .... I hope I'm wrong. And now God commands us not just
the scourge of civil war We also sent another, this terrible disease .... Do not you hear
about this Primitivo? It's a bad weird, for which people die within hours, sometimes in minutes,
is a Amazing invisible stab and kill, and no one is sure to live within half an hour.

- Yes - said D. Benigno, falling in sombre sadness - is the Asiatic cholera.

On hearing this name repulsive and scary, Sola running through his body felt cold complacent. Lamb
felt the same.

- The disease - he said - has appeared in Spain. People are very quiet for the street, and suddenly
wham! fall to the ground and die. But this infection does not come Madrid .... Come on, there's
the car.

They heard the glad bells Peralvillo mules. Sola said goodbye to the children crying, and promised
to return soon. When boarding the car, said:

- Slow?

- We fly - said the Hero -. Peralvillo, lead us to hurry .... Oh! Too bad we do not have Now
for those lanes of Satan here!

And he was right. Great pity that at this critical time there were no rails Satan!

-XVII-

On the morning of 29 and when no one suspected that the King's death was so close, let Pipaón
being single. The cute couple were blessed with the beautiful church wedding San Cayetano,
on the corner of Bear Street and in charge of giving it was Father Carantoña, of the Dominican
order, big buddy of the bridegroom. Attended by people of quality, There was much pomp and worldly church,
were distributed alms, and everything was ready for in the neighborhoods of the South remain
dilated memory of the event by time. The sleaze D. Felicísimo not allowed lunch heading is given,
as seemed natural in the bride's house and struck him in his very bearing Pipaón and magnificence. But
most the day was notable altercation with our courteous D. Very happy.

The newlyweds, believing that if the old man gave no lunch, not deny them his blessing, were beyond
very joyful, but the devil, who never rests, had made some news Butcher
that morning of traicioncillas of Pipaón and blows that had been infamous
the antechamber of Her Majesty the Queen Cristina.

There was the good lord chirping when they arrived spouses, and I wish they had not gone before,
because just as a volcano erupts, burst D. anger Very happy, not in your mouth was bad sounding
word or epithet burner. White stood the blessed agent, such as limestone, and her face causing
terror level because seemed ready to break into pieces, dropping each fraction by his side.
In vain did Pipaón apologize in vain tried to apologize Micaelita
also love that led day I had, and to Doña María del Sagrario timidly
threw a word of peace in the fiery invective.

Were increasing the anger of the stubborn old man replies, and to conclude grandchildren threw into
the street, ordering them never to set foot in that house loyalty, and warned to disinherit the best
way he could. Husbands left heads down, and when they said goodbye to Mrs. Sagrario in the door,
grabbed the old man sentenced with steely claw arm tables, which side was, and with ardent desire
said:

- Tables, four dollars, four dollars for you if you go now and give it a kick that rascal and
throw him rolling down the stairs. Do not hurt my granddaughter, right? My granddaughter does not.

The
athlete did not play the role of cachetero unworthy at that nasty race household is designated,
and all was in that state. After scolded D. Very happy with Mrs. María del Sagrario, with
the maid, with Tables, and called them they could go to the street and leave him alone, but to
live among spies or traitors, he preferred to be alone with the fair and disinterested cat.
The good man vented his anger by blowing, blowing strong and repeated and that furious trumpet echoed
through the house like the horns of Military Appeals. There was indeed fragile illusion that walls
of the house shaking and the walls of Jericho, because during the coming and going of people
at the time of berrinchín, the floor was shaking and so shake so
threatening that the expelled gladly took the door.

In the afternoon,
they were not yet placated the angry spirits of the church staff,
Monsalud Salvador came to see him. D. I was very happy with despondency.

-
I've sent come to you - said taking the foot of a goat and giving
him strong thump on the table - to communicate unpleasant news about
our friend Mr. D. Carlos Navarro. You, hee, hee, he took much interest
when that mischief of confinement in jail for Villa, who did not hesitate
to come to you, now that the famous warrior the Almighty is in a trance
much more dangerous.

Salvador heard these words with evident interest,
and after stating that he had not favored Carlist sympathies to Navarro,
but by considerations of gratitude and friendship absolutely personal
Butcher begged not hide anything that the worthy soldiers of the Almighty
happening. The old man writhed in his seat. Taking and leaving with
the restless hands, this or that paper because his nerves were in
complete anarchy, and said:

- Will come when these scoundrels, and
come, but Christ lives! Now, under that shadow King, dance on our
ribs, but the roles are bartered, hee .... Just imagine that the brave
D. Carlos went to Navarre to confer with Santos and other brave Thief
captains, good people, healthy people, the people of God. Well, there
was a riot of Viana realistic volunteers, by impatience and zeal silly
misunderstanding. The Viceroy 14 Navarre sent against them a column.
The column does not beat anyone ... as always, but caught D. Carlos,
who was in the Franciscan friary, ji, ji, and together with Thief's
nephew and a cappuccino Santos, who caught doing rounds, led him Estella.
Summary was formed, were party to Madrid, and this Government has
sent cowardly and despicable today, today, ji, has commanded to be
put to the sword, Mr. D. Carlos, the nephew Santos capuchinito Thief
and the cartridge. It was as a man confined in a dungeon, whose small and grated rift at
first renders the doubtful light more sensibly obscure, till, the visual orb having drunk in
the beam, and adapted itself to its scantiness, he finds that clear noon inhabits his cell.
So we, a simple triad on empty earth, were multiplied to each other, till we became all in
all. We stood like trees, whose roots are loosened by the wind, which support one another,
leaning and clinging with encreased fervour while the wintry storms howl. Thus we floated down
the widening stream of the Po, sleeping when the cicale sang, awake with the stars. We entered
the narrower banks of the Brenta, and arrived at the shore of the Laguna at sunrise on the
sixth of September. The bright orb slowly rose from behind its cupolas and towers, and shed
its penetrating light upon the glassy waters. Wrecks of gondolas, and some few uninjured ones,
were strewed on the beach at Fusina. We embarked in one of these for the widowed daughter of
ocean, who, abandoned and fallen, sat forlorn on her propping isles, looking towards the far
mountains of Greece. We rowed lightly over the Laguna, and entered Canale Grande. The tide
ebbed sullenly from out the broken portals and violated halls of Venice: sea weed and sea monsters
were left on the blackened marble, while the salt ooze defaced the matchless works of art that
adorned their walls, and the sea gull flew out from the shattered window. In the midst of this
appalling ruin of the monuments of man's power, nature asserted her ascendancy, and shone more
beauteous from the contrast. The radiant waters hardly trembled, while the rippling waves made
many sided mirrors to the sun; the blue immensity, seen beyond Lido, stretched far, unspecked
by boat, so tranquil, so lovely, that it seemed to invite us to quit the land strewn with ruins,
and to seek refuge from sorrow and fear on its placid extent.

We saw the ruins of this hapless city from the height of the tower of San Marco, immediately
under us, and turned with sickening hearts to the sea, which, though it be a grave, rears no
monument, discloses no ruin. Evening had come apace. The sun set in calm majesty behind the
misty summits of the Apennines, and its golden and roseate hues painted the mountains of the
opposite shore. "That land," said Adrian, "tinged with the last glories of the day, is Greece."
Greece! The sound had a responsive chord in the bosom of Clara. She vehemently reminded us
that we had promised to take her once again to Greece, to the tomb of her parents. Why go to
Rome? what should we do at Rome? We might take one of the many vessels to be found here, embark
in it, and steer right for Albania.

I objected the dangers of ocean, and the distance of the mountains we saw, from Athens; a distance
which, from the savage uncultivation of the country, was almost impassable. Adrian, who was
delighted with Clara's proposal, obviated these objections. The season was favourable; the
north-west that blew would take us transversely across the gulph; and then we might find, in
some abandoned port, a light Greek caique, adapted for such navigation, and run down the coast
of the Morea, and, passing over the Isthmus of Corinth, without much land-travelling or fatigue,
find ourselves at Athens. This appeared to me wild talk; but the sea, glowing with a thousand
purple hues, looked so brilliant and safe; my beloved companions were so earnest, so determined,
that, when Adrian said, "Well, though it is not exactly what you wish, yet consent, to please
me"--I could no longer refuse. That evening we selected a vessel, whose size just seemed fitted
for our enterprize; we bent the sails and put the rigging in order, and reposing that night
in one of the city's thousand palaces, agreed to embark at sunrise the following morning. The
laughing morning air filled them, while sun-light bathed earth, sky and ocean--the placid waves
divided to receive our keel, and playfully kissed the dark sides of our little skiff, murmuring
a welcome; as land receded, still the blue expanse, most waveless, twin sister to the azure
empyrean, afforded smooth conduct to our bark. As the air and waters were tranquil and balmy,
so were our minds steeped in quiet. In comparison with the unstained deep, funereal earth appeared
a grave, its high rocks and stately mountains were but monuments, its trees the plumes of a
herse, the brooks and rivers brackish with tears for departed man. Farewell to desolate towns
--to fields with their savage intermixture of corn and weeds--to ever multiplying relics of
our lost species. Ocean, we commit ourselves to thee --even as the patriarch of old floated
above the drowned world, let us be saved, as thus we betake ourselves to thy perennial flood.

Adrian sat at the helm; I attended to the rigging, the breeze right aft filled our swelling
canvas, and we ran before it over the untroubled deep. The wind died away at noon; its idle
breath just permitted us to hold our course. As lazy, fair-weather sailors, careless of the
coming hour, we talked gaily of our coasting voyage, of our arrival at Athens. We would make
our home of one of the Cyclades, and there in myrtle-groves, amidst perpetual spring, fanned
by the wholesome sea-breezes--we would live long years in beatific union--Was there such a
thing as death in the world?--

The sun passed its zenith, and lingered down the stainless floor of heaven. Lying in the boat,
my face turned up to the sky, I thought I saw on its blue white, marbled streaks, so slight,
so immaterial, that now I said-- They are there--and now, It is a mere imagination. A sudden
fear stung me while I gazed; and, starting up, and running to the prow,--as I stood, my hair
was gently lifted on my brow--a dark line of ripples appeared to the east, gaining rapidly
on us--my breathless remark to Adrian, was followed by the flapping of the canvas, as the adverse
wind struck it, and our boat lurched--swift as speech, the web of the storm thickened over
head, the sun went down red, the dark sea was strewed with foam, and our skiff rose and fell
in its encreasing furrows.

Behold us now in our frail tenement, hemmed in by hungry, roaring waves, buffeted by winds.
In the inky east two vast clouds, sailing contrary ways, met; the lightning leapt forth, and
the hoarse thunder muttered. Again in the south, the clouds replied, and the forked stream
of fire running along the black sky, shewed us the appalling piles of clouds, now met and obliterated
by the heaving waves. Great God! And we alone--we three-- alone--alone--sole dwellers on the
sea and on the earth, we three must perish! The vast universe, its myriad worlds, and the plains
of boundless earth which we had left--the extent of shoreless sea around--contracted to my
view--they and all that they contained, shrunk up to one point, even to our tossing bark, freighted
with glorious humanity. He added that once it was cleaned of all
the filth that had brought the Pardo, could go visit Dona Paca, to joyful receive it, but I
did not expect to return to his side, because the children were opposed to it, mindful that
his mother was well served, and provided regularly. Yet he was as the good woman who saw in it a
superior untestable.

Juliana was not a bad person, parent, yes, eager to show the great gifts of government God had
given him, a woman who would not let two jerks fall prey into their hands. But not without
love of neighbor, he felt sorry for Benin, and having said this that the Moor the waiting in
the street, wanted to see him and judge him by his own eyes. That the trace of the poor African
seemed pitiful, met in the gesture he made in the look on his face, and accent said: "I already
knew him to this, to see him on the street asking the Duke of Alba.

He's a good point, and very much in love.

Right, Mr. Almudena, who likes you girls?

- Like my B'nina, Amri ...

- Ajaj ... Benina poor, he has not been granted poor fly! If you do this for charity, honest I
say you're a saint.

- The poor guy is sick and can not use. "

And as the Moor, seized with very violent itching in the arms and chest, claws do your fingers
to scrape win, edging closer to look at her arms, which had stripped
from the sleeve.

"What has this man - said to fear - is leprosy ... Jesus, what Leprosy Benina sign! I have
seen another case, a poor, del Moro well, begging him, Oran him calling at Puerta Cerrada, next
to the workshop of my stepfather. And it got so lost, not Christian had approached him, and
neither will the Saints Hospital wanted to receive ...

"Chop, chop
mocha - Almudena was all he said, turning the nail from the shoulder
to hand, as would a comb through the tangle.

Concealing his disgust, not to hurt the unhappy pair, Juliana said Nina: "Well not you have fallen
ill concern with this guy! Look at that scab sticks. Good are you going put, yes ma'am, good, nice
and cheap ... Or are you more stupid than to cook the butter, or
do not know what it is you.

"

With Nina looks no more expressed their pity the poor blind man, his decision not to leave him
and compliance with all the calamities that God would send. And in this, Antonio Zapata who
returned home, saw his wife in the group, came up to her hurriedly,
and aware of what speaking, Benina advised to carry the Moor to the
query of skin diseases San Juan de Dios.

"More consideration will have - said Juliana - send to their land.

-
Lueje, Lueje - said Almudena -.

Dir Hierusalaim us.

- Not bad. "From Madrid to Jerusalem, or the family of Uncle Maroma
...'. Well, well.

In other thing, my little lady, do not hit and listen.

I could not do your assignments, because ... I tell you they do not hit.

- Because you've gone to the pool, rogue ... Up, up, and adjust accounts.

-
Do not climb because I have to go back to the cars of pathos.

- What
do you say, you rascal?

- Not big go cart for less than forty real,
and as you sent me from passing thirty ...

- Will I have to see.

These men do not serve more than a hindrance, do you, Nina?

- Truth. What is it? Mrs. Will move?

- Yes, women, but may not be until tomorrow, because this silly husband
God has given me, out before the eight to take the house and alert
the car, and you see what time you pick up here, with all that rennet,
without having done anything.

- Pretty've run, girl: At nine I went
home mom with the contract for signature.

You see if we won time. But you know I've lost Frasquito Ponte, He has given us a tremendous s
boring? As we had to take him home and I Polidura with the greatest job. God, how is the man,
and why mess on its head from the thud of yesterday! ".

Benin and Juliana also interested in good or bad fortune of the son of Algeciras, heard attentive
Antonio told them what the consequences of the fall funestísimas Rider Pardo on the road. When
I saw on the ground, fired by jaco, everyone thought that at that critical moment he had finished
the poor knight's mortal existence. But lift, Frasquito recovered, as he revives the movement and
speech, and ensuring have not been hit in the head, which was the most sensitive, and felt in
different parts the skull, he said, 'No, no, gentlemen, touch Me and not find the slightest bump.
" Arms and legs, if at first seemed to have come out with fortune, for surely broken bone I had to
jump-start some horribly lame left leg, indeed, without doubt, the violent collision with the
ground. But the strangest thing was that, as he stood, broke into a gibberish, rash, red face
like a tomato, vibrant and breath language. They took him to his home by car, believing that
a complete rest will restore; frotáronle entire body with arnica, I went to bed, they were
... But damn, as they after the patron said he had no sooner left alone, dressed himself hastily,
and fell to street was home to Boto, and he stayed there until very late getting to everyone, and leading
to the peaceful insolence intemperate parishioners. As this was contrary Frasquito the placid
nature, and his shyness and good education, which surely had disturbance severe brain because
of the bump. It is not known where he spent the rest of the night: it is believed that was stirring
in the streets of Midi Grande and Chica. The fact is that shortly after arriving Polidura Antonio
and home of Dona Francisca, took Frasquito very excited, his face flushed, bright eyes, and with
great surprise and dismay of the ladies, began to drop in his mouth, a little crooked, outrageous
nonsense. Combining skill with the force, could get there and get back home, where they left
him, ordering the employer to hold if could, and to do for feeding. Among other monomaniacs
toughness, was that of his honor demanded he seek explanations for the unprecedented affront
Moor presumably to say in public that he, Frasquito, made the cut in Benin. More than twenty
times tore Midi to Grand Street, trying to see Mr. de Almudena, determined to give card, but
the African slipped the package and would not let anyone see it anywhere. Clear had gone to
his country, fleeing from the fury of Ponte ... but he was determined not to stop to discover,
and force him to meet a gentleman, but he hid in the last corner
of the Atlas.

"If my lover venier Bunite - Moor said laughing so loudly, that the ends of His mouth caught on
the ears - to me he legs mochas.

- Poor D. Bottle ... wretched soul
of God - Nina exclaimed clasping her hands -.

I feared to stop this ...

- Valiente fright! - Said Juliana -. What does it matter to us that this old wallpaper Whistle or
not it nuts? Do you know what I mean? Well, all that comes from drugs that is placed on the
face, which are poisonous and attack direction. Hey, do not waste your time. Antonio, go back to
Imperial Street, tell them to prepare everything, and I go to the car to see if fix it this afternoon.
Nina, go with God, and care not hit you ... You know? Oh, daughter, shall cling, even toilet
you have! See? and start to suffer the consequences of bad step ... by ignoring me. Doña Paca told
me that I let you go there. Wants to see: Poor lady! I gave my consent, and take you with me
today I thought ... but I do not dare, daughter, I do not dare.

Having in between this plague, can not Rozart ... I had you were
given every day to collect the leftover food in the house that was
your mistress.

- And I do not ...?

- Yes, yes, the food is yours
... but ... see what to do ... you get to the portal to hours that
I set, and my cousin Hillary will bring it down and I will give ...
coming at you at least I can ... You understand ... each has its qualms
... Not all stomachs are like yours, Nina, bombproof ... that ...

-
I understand ... Lady Juliana.

Stay with God. "

XL

Adversity and crashed in the heart of Benin, as the vague waves in
the robust cliff.

Rompíanse thundered, were broken, melted in white foam, and nothing
else.

Rejected by the family that he had sustained in saddest days of misery and pain without story
soon remake of the deep trouble that caused him so notorious ingratitude; his conscience gave
him unspeakable consolation: he looked at life from the height at which his contempt of human
vanity put it, saw the ridiculous smallness beings around her, and spirit was big and strong.
Had achieved glorious victory, I felt victorious after have lost the battle on the ground
material. More intimate satisfactions of victory not deprived of his gift of government, and attentive
to material things, came in a little while depart from Juliana, to solve the most urgent as
the life both body concerned. It was crucial to seek shelter, then try to cure your scabies Mordechai
or whatever, then leave him in such a pitiable state would not do for anything in the world
although she saw the filthy infected wrong. And ran with him to Santa Casilda, and finding
vacated the small room occupied by the Moors with Petra, he took it. Fortunately, the drunk
Diega had gone to live in the Cava de San Miguel, behind the ladder. Installed in that cache,
which was not without comforts, the first thing that made the old Alcarrian was to bring water,
all the water he could, and wash and body soap, old habit in it, that whenever he could practice
at home of Dona Francisca. Then he wore clean. The welfare cleanliness and freshness gave his
body, somewhat confused with rest of his conscience, in which he also felt something like absolute
cleanliness and freshness comforting.

Then devoted himself to the arrangement of the house, and with the little money he had made his
purchase, and Mordechai prepared a good meal. They planned to bring the consultation the following
day, and so it said, showing the blind according to all with what
she wanted the will to determine.

While they ate, entertained and encouraged him to hope and sweet words, offering to go, as he
wanted to Jerusalem or a little further, as regain health. Pending to take away the rash, there
was no need to think about travel. It would still, at home, she going to ask for one every day to see
get to live on, surely God not let them starve. So pleased the blind conceived and proposed plan
by his smart friends, and with his affectionate expressions, which burst into singing the chant
Arabic Benina already heard him in the landfill, but as to escape the stoning had lost the small
guitar, could not accompany the son of that rough instrument. He then proposed to companion
to cast incense, and she did it willingly, because the smog and flavored saneaba poor room.

They left the next day for consultation, but as they nominate for this one-hour evening, entertained
the first half of the day pordioseando on several streets, always good care of the chili, not
to fall again in the hands of those who cast the tie to beggars, as if they were dogs and take them to
the warehouse, where they treated like dogs.

It must be said that the ungrateful not come from Doña Paca Nina woke up in hatred or malice,
and that compliance with the ingratitude of this took away the desire not to see the unhappy
lady, who dearly wanted, as a partner of bitterness in many years. Longed view, even if from
afar, and brought this fondness, it was the street of Lettuce to discern a discreet distance if
the family was in the process of moving or had moved now. What time has arrived! He was in the
car door, and the boys got stuff in it with the barbarous quickly that used in this operation.
From his vantage Benina recognized the decrepit furniture, bent, and could not contain his
excitement at seeing them. It was almost his, of its existence, and they saw, as in a mirror,
the image of their sorrows and joys; I thought that if approached, the poor tackle had to say
something, or cry with it. But what was strongly impressed to see out through the portal and
Obdulia Dona Paca, with Polidura and Juliana, as if it were a new home, while the maids are
elegant remained in the former, providing for collection and transportation of offal, and
all the trash home.

Troubled and confused, Nina hid in a doorway, to see without being seen. What impaired Dona Francisca
found! He wore a new dress, but so heinous appearance, as cut and sewn in a hurry, it seemed
like the poor lady dressed in alms. Covered his head with a robe, and held a sombrerote Obdulia
with deformed flourish and feathers.

Doña Paca walked slowly, staring at the floor, overwhelmed, sad, as if carried by guards civilians.
The girl laughed, chatted with Polidura. Juliana was behind herding them all, and sending them
they were in a hurry by the way that marked them. No more than he needed to look like wood
to that on Christmas Eve the streets leading flocks of turkeys. How dawned despotism in the smallest
movements! Doña Paca was the humble response that goes where the lead, even at the slaughterhouse,
Juliana and the shepherd who leads. Disappeared the Plaza Mayor, the street of keypads ... Benina took
steps to see the sad cattle and when he lost it, wiped the tears flooding her face.

"Poor dear lady! - Said the blind man as he met him -. I love her as a sister, because together
we spent many penalties. I was all for it, and it all for me. Forgive me my faults, I will
forgive their own ... How sad it is, perhaps thinking of how bad ported with Nina! It seems that
rheumatism is worse, so lame, and his face is not have eaten in four
days.

I brought cherry-picked, I was cheating with good shade, hiding our misery, and putting my face
in shame for him to eat according to what was his taste and custom ... In short, the past,
and said the other, it happened. Come on, Almudena, let's go here, and God put you well soon
to take the little road to Jerusalem, not and scares me by far.
 If I turned my steps from the near barren scene,
and entered any of the earth's million cities, I should find their wealth stored up for my
accommodation--clothes, food, books, and a choice of dwelling beyond the command of the princes
of former times--every climate was subject to my selection, while he was obliged to toil in
the acquirement of every necessary, and was the inhabitant of a tropical island, against whose
heats and storms he could obtain small shelter.--Viewing the question thus, who would not have
preferred the Sybarite enjoyments I could command, the philosophic leisure, and ample intellectual
resources, to his life of labour and peril? Yet he was far happier than I: for he could hope,
nor hope in vain--the destined vessel at last arrived, to bear him to countrymen and kindred,
where the events of his solitude became a fire-side tale. To none could I ever relate the story
of my adversity; no hope had I. He knew that, beyond the ocean which begirt his lonely island,
thousands lived whom the sun enlightened when it shone also on him: beneath the meridian sun
and visiting moon, I alone bore human features; I alone could give articulation to thought;
and, when I slept, both day and night were unbeheld of any. He had fled from his fellows, and
was transported with terror at the print of a human foot. I would have knelt down and worshipped
the same. The wild and cruel Caribbee, the merciless Cannibal--or worse than these, the uncouth,
brute, and remorseless veteran in the vices of civilization, would have been to me a beloved
companion, a treasure dearly prized--his nature would be kin to mine; his form cast in the
same mould; human blood would flow in his veins; a human sympathy must link us for ever. It
cannot be that I shall never behold a fellow being more!--never! --never!--not in the course
of years!--Shall I wake, and speak to none, pass the interminable hours, my soul, islanded
in the world, a solitary point, surrounded by vacuum? Will day follow day endlessly thus? --No!
no! a God rules the world--providence has not exchanged its golden sceptre for an aspic's sting.
Away! let me fly from the ocean-grave, let me depart from this barren nook, paled in, as it
is, from access by its own desolateness; let me tread once again the paved towns; step over
the threshold of man's dwellings, and most certainly I shall find this thought a horrible vision--a
maddening, but evanescent dream. The
flexible, more flexible, flabby character of the widow, was adapted to the feeling and thinking
Juliana, and seeing this that it ran between the fingers that bread crumbs, pellets made with
it. Doña Paca not breathe without the permission of the tyrant, who for the most insignificant
acts of life, had quite a few orders that dictate to the unhappy lady. It came to having a childhood
fear, it felt soft crumb inside the bronze hand beading and indeed it was not just afraid, for
he mingled with some respect and admiration.

Lay the lady from the bustle of the day, and stuck all the furniture, dishes and pots in the
new house and attacked an intense sadness that devoured the soul, called her tirana to say, "You
have not explained well by the way we speak.

What stories Nina has its moro? Is this good-looking? ".

Juliana gave the explanation that he asked his subject, without hurting Nina and put it in wrong place
demonstrated in this fine touch.

"And stay ... that it can not come to me, for fear that plague us
from getting filthy.

You did well. If not for you, I would be exposed, God knows, we stick to the plague ... Get over
that would collect leftover food. But this is not enough, and I would happy to point out a
number, for example, a penny daily. What?

- I say that if we start with those jokes, Mrs. Dona Paca, Peñaranda
again soon.

No, No: a quarter is a quarter ... Pretty Nina has two real. So I thought, and if you have
something else, I wash my hands.

- Two real, two ... You have said ... and simply, yes. Do you know the miracles that Nina half penny? ".

In
this Daniela was very alarmed, saying Frasquito knocked on the door, and Obdulia, that the sight
had seen, felt that it was opened, to avoid another scandal such as Imperial Street. But who
told him the address of the new home? No Polidura doubt was the snitch, and Juliana is sworn
to snatch his ear. The mishap occurred Get serious while calling with nervous fury, determined
to break the bell, rose Hilaria street and opened the latch-key and
there was no possible way to cut the intruder, who rushed in, appearing
before the frightened ladies with their hats pulled down ears, brandishing
the cane, the great detriment and clothing stained with dirt and mud.

It He had twisted his mouth, and painfully dragged his right leg.
"By God, Frasquito - Doña Paca said pleading - we do not riot. You
are wrong, and should go to bed. " Beyond all other beings he
had taught me, that goodness, pure and single, can be an attribute of man. It was a sight for
angels to congregate to behold, to view him lead, govern, and solace, the last days of the
human race.

My lovely Clara also was lost to me--she who last of the daughters of man, exhibited all those
feminine and maiden virtues, which poets, painters, and sculptors, have in their various languages
strove to express. Yet, as far as she was concerned, could I lament that she was removed in
early youth from the certain advent of misery? Pure she was of soul, and all her intents were
holy. But her heart was the throne of love, and the sensibility her lovely countenance expressed,
was the prophet of many woes, not the less deep and drear, because she would have for ever
concealed them.

These two wondrously endowed beings had been spared from the universal wreck, to be my companions
during the last year of solitude. I had felt, while they were with me, all their worth. I was
conscious that every other sentiment, regret, or passion had by degrees merged into a yearning,
clinging affection for them. I had not forgotten the sweet partner of my youth, mother of my
children, my adored Idris; but I saw at least a part of her spirit alive again in her brother;
and after, that by Evelyn's death I had lost what most dearly recalled her to me; I enshrined
her memory in Adrian's form, and endeavoured to confound the two dear ideas. I sound the depths
of my heart, and try in vain to draw thence the expressions that can typify my love for these
remnants of my race. If regret and sorrow came athwart me, as well it might in our solitary
and uncertain state, the clear tones of Adrian's voice, and his fervent look, dissipated the
gloom; or I was cheered unaware by the mild content and sweet resignation Clara's cloudless
brow and deep blue eyes expressed. They were all to me--the suns of my benighted soul--repose
in my weariness--slumber in my sleepless woe. Ill, most ill, with disjointed words, bare and
weak, have I expressed the feeling with which I clung to them. I would have wound myself like
ivy inextricably round them, so that the same blow might destroy us. I would have entered and
been a part of them--so that

  If the dull substance of my flesh were thought,

even now I had accompanied them to their new and incommunicable abode.

Never shall I see them more. I am bereft of their dear converse--bereft of sight of them. I
am a tree rent by lightning; never will the bark close over the bared fibres--never will their
quivering life, torn by the winds, receive the opiate of a moment's balm. I am alone in the
world-- but that expression as yet was less pregnant with misery, than that Adrian and Clara
are dead.

The tide of thought and feeling rolls on for ever the same, though the banks and shapes around,
which govern its course, and the reflection in the wave, vary. Thus the sentiment of immediate
loss in some sort decayed, while that of utter, irremediable loneliness grew on me with time.
Three days I wandered through Ravenna--now thinking only of the beloved beings who slept in
the oozy caves of ocean--now looking forward on the dread blank before me; shuddering to make
an onward step--writhing at each change that marked the progress of the hours.

For three days I wandered to and fro in this melancholy town. I passed whole hours in going
from house to house, listening whether I could detect some lurking sign of human existence.
Sometimes I rang at a bell; it tinkled through the vaulted rooms, and silence succeeded to
the sound. I called myself hopeless, yet still I hoped; and still disappointment ushered in
the hours, intruding the cold, sharp steel which first pierced me, into the aching festering
wound. I fed like a wild beast, which seizes its food only when stung by intolerable hunger.
I did not change my garb, or seek the shelter of a roof, during all those days. Burning heats,
nervous irritation, a ceaseless, but confused flow of thought, sleepless nights, and days instinct
with a frenzy of agitation, possessed me during that time. Whoever said that religious country
until the stones have a heart to throb D. Carlos, to cast pumpkins hands to pick up guns. The
bells there, when they play at Mass say "no more Masons' and date on which the war the men of
the earth will be able to conquer Europe while women conquer the rest of Spain .... Well, very
good .... How you To see that gentleman? I warn you that is hidden.

- No matter: I only talk about family matters. Last summer was the Farm but I could not see,
because he always refused to receive me. Now I will be easier, because You will write two words.

-
I will be happy, but I warn you that Mr. D. Carlos is sick liver.

It is already has done so much work! He is a tireless champion of good teachings. Last night
he complained of dreadful pains, and, strange to a man so religious, ji, ji, relied more the
demons that the Blessed Virgin. If you want to be sure that you want to interview, we'll tell Father
Gracian, a Jesuit, excellent subject that comes here some evenings, and then we usually go to drink
chocolate Maroto's house, where the Father is Carasa .... Well, thanks a friend of Mr. D.
Carlos, and has long been proposed that reconcile him with his wife .... Oh! is a falcon for
the good Father Gracian reconciliations.

- I know. It is a worthy priest who has the best intentions, and if it fails bring happiness to all
mankind because God does not want .... In conclusion, you entiéndanse and Father Gracian for
me to see Mr. Navarro and talk about an issue that is not political and only he and I are both interested.
Does he live ...?

- Do not know if I should tell you right now, before the same Mr. D. Carlos, beautiful person,
hee, hee ... before the same Mr. D. Carlos Navarro to leave for you
to display.

And I'll fix it. Come back tomorrow for this home.

After Salvador was, D. Felicísimo wrote a letter in which over after
draw three crosses, put it: A Lady Doña Maria de la Paz Porreno, street
of Bethlehem.

-III-

The poor lady almost lived in the same narrowness
in 1822, because the removal policies friendly social and stopped
at the door of the house, which was without doubt one of the best
museums of fossils that then existed in Spain.

The periods of time prevailing absolutism were to thrive in the house and plenty of cupboards Porreñanas
the same as those prevailing in the vile villain of the clubs. So in point facilities and supplies
the dying Marquis would have ended a disaster like the empires have been formidable if not come
to his aid an industry that, while is somewhat prosaic, there is something noble for being associated
with hospitality. The two illustrious As unfortunate ladies chamber to house a respectable
gentleman so rich in seasons, sometimes very long, that the subject spent in Madrid. The treatment
was excellent, good pay, and harmony between the host and the ladies so perfect that the three
looked like brothers. Familiarity enhanced by respect and a dignified simplicity reigned in the silent
house seemed inhabited by shadows.

Well, that is, to what historians know that with modest financial benefits honestísimo acquired
by that environment had renewed the ladies of the unfurnished, although All antiques are preserved,
supported by patches and polished by the time and toilet.

Wonderful thing! the hourglass 2 had returned to walking, but from malice or watchmaker by a
mechanical mystery impossible to penetrate, walked back, and well after midnight was eleven,
then ten and so on. Table of Saints of the Order Dominica had been restored by the same Doña Paz,
old man assisted by a skilled carpenter, clerk and binder, and filler here, goop there, with
half a dozen black brushstrokes in the shadows and a good coat of varnish car across the surface,
had been as the day he was born. For the same style had been saved from complete ruin the polls
saints and the cornucopias, which no longer have their windows but irregular spots quicksilver
seemed a collection of maps. What is new, it was very humble, was in straw chairs, gingham
curtains, hems of mat colors, but glad the house and his ancient matalotaje. In such a way that
ghastly image of yore laughed in his grave.

By the time we find that again, Doña María de la Paz was coming swiftly apoplectic old age, going
to her with gouty feet, shaky head, shoulders crass and neck. Her hair, however, blacks were
kept the same as the lunar and was pursuing her white hair like liberals, and gave no quarter
to none, being as ruthless with them when they came in droves and
could not pull them up for fear of becoming in the pure hull, outfitting
dressed in black so that no one knew.

So when this operation was not done with skill (because the forces had diminished the view)
appeared the temples and forehead marred with some dark clouds over them Snow glistened mimicking
a wonderful winter landscape.

Doña María Salomé was so mummified that seemed to have been sent in those days Egypt had just been
unpacked for display to the curiosity of lovers ethnography. Set at a low saddle, which had
become part of his person, took care to fix frills to decorate, and saw his side in various
wicker baskets, moth-eaten feathers, ribbons gloomy shades, silk cloth, faded and wrinkled autumn
leaves, all infused with a certain smell of perfume mixed tomb of
camphor.

Gossips say that clothes make up the pieces and sewed them in the same skin, also said that
eating camphor to be preserved, and was lined in suede. Malicious nonsense is this that serious
historians should not ignore.

One morning .... Forgot to say that the house had a large back room that opened onto a patio
or very spacious corral, from which the sun almost all day. In the piece tended Doña Peace of laundry
at home. From wall to wall was all strings, and when they were full of clothes, it was like
a wet rag forest. Well, one morning he walked Dona Maria Peace for those malls toilet when he
came Doña María Salomé, and giving a letter they had just brought home, said:

- A letter to Mr. D. Carlos. Comes with about you, but it is for him. Look at the three crosses.
The lyrics seem to Mr. D. Very happy.

- It's when you'll wake up - said Dona Paz -. The poor guy has had a very bad night.

- By the way - said Mrs. Salome with very serious face, which revealed an apprehension careful -
we certainly did not know if it should receive letters this way.

This can give rise to conflicting interpretations of our honor and
reputation.

Neighbors hear all ... see that we get letters ... are coming here at night many men .... I do not
know I do not know ...

- Shut up, woman - Doña Paz said, poking his head through the branches - white. What can suspicious
of us?

- You can drop a flawless woman on our reputation - Salome said a
very bad mood -.

You know you is not enough to be honest, but seem to be, and two ladies alone, like us, have to
be careful to not go in the languages ​​of malware.

- Always a fool! - Murmured Dona Maria de la Paz disappearing into
the thickest of the forest of clothing.

- I am determined to speak
clearly to Mr. D. Carlos - added the other -.

Nobody likes him more than I, but the men come and go at all hours of day and night is not in
accordance with what has always been our home. What? I can not get used: I am. I say and I
repeat, I will talk to Mr. D. Carlos.

- No more missing but Mr. D. dizzy Carlos with such impertinence - Doña Paz said reappearing canvas in
a mall.

- I say and I repeat .... In addition, colleagues, assistants or whatever Mr. D. Carlos, considerations
did not keep us we deserve. What else? ... Yesterday I did not finish comb when that barbaric
Zugarramurdi entered my room without permission .... And what! to
tell me if I had seen one of his spurs, he could not find.

- Nonsense
.... Lower your voice .... I think that has attracted Mr. Navarro.

Appeared at the door a huge beard that a man was stuck.

Among that enormous brown fleece came out dry and bland voice said: - Chocolate.

- Then, Mr. Zagarramurdi. Take this letter that you have brought to
Mr. D. Carlos.

How are you today?

- Mal - the beard said turning around and disappearing he had come.

- What ways! - Salome murmured, turning to his room -. There are no gentlemen.

Navarro lived in the same room occupied some years earlier by a woman who died in odor of sanctity. Little
or no change had the piece, which seemed more than cabinet chapel, or rather an abbreviated
transcript of the court of heaven, because everything in it was Santico painted and bulk,
relics, pictures of shrines and monasteries, embroidered hearts,
palm hearts, and an altar complete with tin candlesticks, chandeliers
hanging from the ceiling, their missals and three bandages chasubles
cardboard paper, in an attitude of celebrating Mass sung.

Completed decoration is a huge sword hanging from the same nail hold it an embroidered baby Jesus
on canvas, two shotguns move in with a corner, two gloves and two fencing masks with two pairs
of foils, three suitcases and a man widely used.

This man was seated or rather submerged in an armchair, his legs hidden under thick blanket
down to his waist, his head bent over his chest and so still seemed asleep or dead. A brazier
well past cisco showed his pile of ash glazed fire near the package that should contain individual's
foot, which if ever there was showed signs of giving them cold. His face was dark shooting
green because of pallor and whites of the eyes was not white but
yellow.

The coarse black hair was quite gray, and generally saw the powerful head resting in a black
hand, toast, whose twisted veins and tendons and muscles remembered the hand that D. Quixote
Maritornes taught when they hung the skylight of the sale.

In a small table near the guerrilla was taking medication cards that read, snuff, a book, a rosary
and a gun. Drinking and smoking: alternating with readings, was his occupation boring precursor
hour of the night insomnia. Not like that friends give her conversation. His best friend was
the wisest of all, silence.

But Oricain Zugarramurdi and had a resource to distract him, but not for long. Pulled the foil,
and then the eyes of the guerrilla is encouraged, following closely
the movements Duelists of the sham and even threw a sharp word or
a teacher's comment between the steel grating.

But suddenly said 'enough' and the two athletes let loose foil and took off the mask, bringing
to light the face sweaty.

At that time seemed Zagarramurdi prehistoric man stuffed in his ferocious beards, and Oricain,
the formidable bear Navarre lost much in beauty, because the wire mask concealing ugliness.

That
day (we refer to date of the letter D. Felicísimo) D. Carlos soon
tired than ever.

- Stop thrusts - he said -.

Zugarramurdi, stop by the house of Don Thomas and tell Zumalacárregui I hope that tomorrow. Oricain,
get me my rosary and vote. When the father Gracian enter and if I sleep, I wake up .... Today
we do not like.

After the siesta came the Father Gracian. He was a tall strapping young man of thirty and eight
or forty years old, dark, thick lips, nose aberenjenada, roughly the and tanned skin, and
made expressly by God to withstand the scorching weather tropical and polar ice.

His beard was so black and thick that even shave the same day leaving a dark spot entire lower
face. Herculean forces that should be arrogant grenadier of the Church, and if the point of
view was admirably body set up to mission, was no less in the spiritual, as a man of many wisdoms
most learned in the sacred letters and quite strong in the profane, eloquent in the pulpit and persuasive
in conversation, in the chair eagle and lynx in the confessional. Also knew of medicine and had
passed through miraculous cures. Grandon was so that his cloak seemed to have a piece of cloth, and
when concluded muffled never take no cloth in the wind. His hat tile did not measure less than
a yard, and as always had a little pushed back and his body hunched
forward, looked like he was carrying a heavy beam.

Their oversized feet, buried in cloth shoes, stepped to the weight and grip of the robust plant
espadrille causeway that hits like a sledgehammer tiles docks and warehouses.

After greeting with affability the partisan ill chosen, sat down beside him and putting his hand over
his cassock some openings behind which had pockets so deep as the sea, began to make several paper
cones similar in size and shape those who are in stores to hold two
quarts of sugar, coffee or aniseed.

As pulled them out of was turning on the bedside table and looked at the rotulillo that his
handwriting was written on each.

- What is that? - Asked Navarro chopped curiosity, suspecting that his friend had grocery stores.

-
This is the land of the route from San Ignacio in Manresa, a relic that people ask a lot devotees.
Today I received a small shipment, and distributed among friends who have time have asked
me .... If you have forgotten the cone of Doña Maria de la Paz .... Ah! not here is. I will
do you the favor of giving it.

These others are for the Honourable Countess of Rumble to the nuns of Góngora, for Mr. D.
Peter King, who has had to death PerfectIt your beautiful girl, and
several other families ....

Then put away the cones in their pockets
unfathomable as the sea, and after giving violent slap on the knee
of the guerrilla, said:

- I see that you are better .... That face
is another .... Soon you will be fine.

The guerrillas gave a sigh and smiled.

Both demonstrations showed disbelief prognosis and gratitude for the consolation.

- Soon, very soon, when the time comes to settle on the battlefields of the question established
between the Almighty and the Masons, the Most High will be without
their most valiant Maccabeus.

- That's what I pray with all the fervor
of my soul - Navarro said casting bitterness mouth and eyes - and
that God will grant me.

- I have for me - said the cleric with great
faith - that God is not an arm amputated as powerful .... Your illness
is worth nothing, I repeat worthless.

No injury, repeat no injury. It is a depression caused by an accumulation bilious, whose origin
we to search the hard life of you and the domestic troubles that have embittered his soul. The soul,
the soul, sir, is the diseased, and the soul has to apply medicine. What is this? It is a sweet
comforting trust is achieved by mixing with indulgence peace and piety.

Navarro said in his face without saying a word, the disgust that caused him issue already raised
many times, but without fruit, by the venerable Father Gracian.

-
No, you do not pucker between the eyebrows - he said this, showing
decided -.

I will not give, but when you pull me their friendship and throw me in your home.

- That no ....

- Well if that does not, you resign yourself to feel the big fly in
her ear.

What say the blowfly? Tell you will not have health while having no peace in your spirit, and
will not have peace in your spirit while he has no family. And when you have family? When reconciled
with his wife, after her repentance and forgiveness of you. Repentance, forgiveness! On these
two poles you move the vast world of souls. All moral knowledge is condensed into these two ideas
that establish the relationship between man and God ....

Navarro wanted to talk.

- No, I do not accept reply on this.

What I say and just - said the Jesuit, strong in authority -. When I have raised you encouraging
them to solve this problem, and is understood there can be no dishonor to you. The real shame is to
shut their ears to warnings of the Church that tells husbands: "Love one another, unite." The judgments
of the world are wicked and vain. Should they ignore a religious man and wise? No. What is
the worst counselor man? Pride. And the best? Piety. What does that tell you your pride? said,
'no give in and poisoned by rancor dies before uttering a word lenient. " What says piety? says,
"forgive to be forgiven ».... I know there are reasons apparent strength, but I have studied
the subject with affection and I've seen what you presented as obstacle is not .... God wants
no doubt that this work is carried out, because since I undertook, I see very clearly the way
of it. And what I see? I see that lady boredom of solitude and a lively desire to establish order in
their lives interrupted, I see that far to keep you grudge respects and loves him. I have
come to overcome some resistance that his soul had, and with little to you to help me ....

- Father, father - said D. Carlos breathing hard, because I was struggling
with the unbearable weight of the sermon - that can not be.

There are breaks that can not be welded never, never, in heaven. I suppose you retreat to a desert,
do penance, sanctify me, dying, except me and entered the kingdom of God as blessed, even more,
as a saint. Suppose you also that she regrets her misconduct, receiving God's afflictions and
fair calamities which rots in life, which is removed to make life in the cloister, which then
falls into the hands infidels, the martyr, the burn, the swelter, who dies, who is saved, that
is holy, that is pure as an angel .... Well, suppose you think we are in the sky ....

- And embraced weep tears of forgiveness - said the father was very moved and clasping her
hands.

- No! - Shouted Navarro, and syllable that sounded like a shot.

The Jesuit was perplexed, looking at his friend with horror. He dared not insist on its commitment
to the unchanging harshness of the rock in human form, which was externally all the unevenness
of the rock and all the bitterness inside the sea, but also him,
the Jesuit, was the absence of apparent hardness, endurance and persistent
strength wave. I rejoiced at my success, as I figured Camillus, the Gracchi,
Cato, and last the heroes of Tacitus, which shine meteors of surpassing brightness during the
murky night of the empire;--as the verses of Horace and Virgil, or the glowing periods of Cicero
thronged into the opened gates of my mind, I felt myself exalted by long forgotten enthusiasm.
I was delighted to know that I beheld the scene which they beheld--the scene which their wives
and mothers, and crowds of the unnamed witnessed, while at the same time they honoured, applauded,
or wept for these matchless specimens of humanity. At length, then, I had found a consolation.
I had not vainly sought the storied precincts of Rome--I had discovered a medicine for my many
and vital wounds.

I sat at the foot of these vast columns. The Coliseum, whose naked ruin is robed by nature
in a verdurous and glowing veil, lay in the sunlight on my right. Not far off, to the left,
was the Tower of the Capitol. Triumphal arches, the falling walls of many temples, strewed
the ground at my feet. I strove, I resolved, to force myself to see the Plebeian multitude
and lofty Patrician forms congregated around; and, as the Diorama of ages passed across my
subdued fancy, they were replaced by the modern Roman; the Pope, in his white stole, distributing
benedictions to the kneeling worshippers; the friar in his cowl; the dark-eyed girl, veiled
by her mezzera; the noisy, sun-burnt rustic, leading his heard of buffaloes and oxen to the
Campo Vaccino. Again he looked at his face the guests, and raised
the wonder. Then the third servant leaning against another foreigner, said to him: Lord, believe
me Your Majesty, you should not stop here anymore, I'll arrange everything,
and disappeared. In
pitiful condition were the two: Benina barefoot, torn and dirty clothes black, the Moor old,
green and haggard face, revealing either their gaunt faces hunger who had suffered the oppression
and sadness of forced confinement in what looks more like dungeon to hospice.

Nina could not take his mind the image of Doña Paca, or ceased to imagine, and in a way, and
of another foster care home that would be. At times he expected to be received with joy, at times
feared find Dona Francisca furious at having her request that alms, and above all, to go with
a Moor. But nothing put in so much turmoil and confusion his mind as the idea of ​​the developments
that had to be found in the family, as Antonio with vague references to tell the exit Pardo.
 Whatever
it is, "said Candide, a consolation I have, and sometimes finds a people who thought never find,
and very well may happen that after having met my ram embodied and Paquita, find me one day
face to face with Cunegonde. If so, everything looks clear. If not, can write thousands and thousands commented,
and every commentator imagine that the poet wanted to say this, that, beyond it, and even things
that the poor poet was not occurred in life.