The middle of the sixteenth century in France is thus marked by a curious blend of those two
distinct movements in human history which we call the Renaissance and the Reformation, and
the blend is nowhere more picturesque than in the life of Robert Estienne. At one moment we
find him attacking the abuses of the church, at another we find him consulting with Claude
Garamond upon the design of a new Greek type, or reading the final proofs of an edition of
Horace or Catullus or Juvenal, or discussing with some wealthy and noble book-collector like
the famous Grolier the latest styles in elegant bindings and gold-stamped decoration. For beauty
and for truth he had an equal passion. All that romance of the imagination which touches with
a golden glamour the recovered treasures of pagan antiquity he loved as intensely as if it
were not alien and hostile, as the many thought, to that glow of spiritual piety, that zeal
of martyrdom, that white, consuming splendor which for the mystical imagination surrounds the
holy cross. Humanism at its best is ordinarily thought to be embodied in the many-sided figure
of Erasmus, with his sanity, his balance, his power to see both sides, that of Luther and of
the Church, his delicate satire, his saving humor, his avoidance of the zealot's extremes.
Perhaps a not less striking figure is that of this much less known French printer, striving
in the midst of petty cares and unlovely sectarian strife to maintain the stoical serenity
of a Marcus Aurelius side by side with the spiritual exaltation of a Saint Paul. The cries of
the attitude poor way to the ears as the opulent, the contractor was turned out, and it was not
then humanely determined that the overseers, aided by a master and matron, should and in future
superintend the workhouse of trustees by the parish. Such was Robert Estienne.

The third printer whom I have selected as typical of the Renaissance is Johann Froben, of Basel.
His chief distinction is that he was the closest friend and associate of Erasmus, the principal
publisher of Erasmus's works, and the representative in the book trade of the Erasmian attitude
toward the Reformation. Although he did print the Greek Testament, years before Estienne published
his edition in Paris, he accompanied it with no distinctively Protestant comments. Although
at one time he issued some of the earlier works of Luther, he desisted when it became evident
that Erasmus opposed any open schism in the Church. It was Froben who gave to the world those
three famous works of Erasmus, the Encomium Moriae or Praise of Folly, the Adagia or Proverbs,
and the Colloquia or Conversations, which did quite as much as the writings of Luther to arouse
independent thinking within the Church, and to bring to an end the last vestiges of the middle
ages in church and state. And in this relation of Froben to Erasmus there was not the mere
commercial attitude of a shrewd publisher toward a successful author whose works became highly
lucrative, but the support by one enlightened scholar who happened to be in a profitable business
of another who happened to be out of it. Can such cause of two phenomena, of which we have no knowledge
but in the antagonist relations of surfaces called conducting and non-conducting, be philosophically
considered but as the effect of that nicely-adjusted relations? Literary patronage, as it existed
from the days of Horace and Maecenas down to the death-blow which Dr. Johnson gave it in his
famous letter to Lord Chesterfield, has never helped the independence or the self-respect of
scholars and poets.