But here, run away with my pen, I suffer my mother to be angry with me on her own account.
She hinted to me, indeed, that I must seek her, if my mind changed; which is a condition that
amounts to a prohibition of attending her: but, as she left me in displeasure, will it not
have a very obstinate appearance, and look like a kind of renunciation of her mediation in
my favour, if I go not down before my father returns, to supplicate her pity, and her kind
report to him?

I will attend her. I had rather all the world should be angry with me than my mamma!

Mean time, to clear my hands from papers of such a nature, Hannah shall deposit this. If two
or three letters reach you together, they will but express from one period to another, the
anxieties and difficulties which the mind of your unhappy but ever affectionate friend labours
under.

CL. H.

LETTER XXI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SAT. NIGHT.

I have been down. I am to be unlucky in all I do, I think, be my intentions ever so good. I
have made matters worse instead of better: as I shall now tell you.

I found my mother and sister together in my sister's parlour. My mother, I fear, by the glow
of her fine face, (and as the browner, sullener glow in her sister's confirmed,) had been expressing
herself with warmth, against her unhappier child: perhaps giving such an account of what had
passed, as should clear herself, and convince Bella, and, through her, my brother and uncles,
of the sincere pains she had taken with me.

I entered like a dejected criminal; and besought the favour of a private audience. My mother's
return, both looks and words, gave but too much reason for my above surmise.

You have, said she [looking at me with a sternness that never sits well on her sweet features]
rather a requesting than a conceding countenance, Clarissa Harlowe: if I am mistaken, tell
me so; and I will withdraw with you wherever you will.--Yet whether so, or not, you may say
what you have to say before your sister.

My mother, I thought, might have withdrawn with me, as she knows that I have not a friend in
my sister.

I come down, Madam, said I, to beg of you to forgive me for any thing you may have taken amiss
in what passed above respecting your honoured self; and that you will be pleased to use your
endeavours to soften my papa's displeasure against me, on his return.

Such aggravating looks; such lifting up of hands and eyes; such a furrowed forehead, in my sister!

My mother was angry enough without all that; and asked me to what purpose I came down, if I
were still so intractable.

She had hardly spoken the words, when Shorey came in to tell her, that Mr. Solmes was in the
hall, and desired admittance.

Ugly creature! What, at the close of day, quite dark, brought him hither?--But, on second thoughts,
I believe it was contrived, that he should be here at supper, to know the result of the conference
between my mother and me, and that my father, on his return, might find us together.

I was hurrying away, but my mother commanded me (since I had come down only, as she said, to
mock her) not to stir; and at the same time see if I could behave so to Mr. Solmes, as might
encourage her to make the favourable report to my father which I had besought her to make.

My sister triumphed. I was vexed to be so caught, and to have such an angry and cutting rebuke
given me, with an aspect much more like the taunting sister than the indulgent mother, if I
may presume to say so: for she herself seemed to enjoy the surprise upon me.

The man stalked in. His usual walk is by pauses, as if (from the same vacuity of thought which
made Dryden's clown whistle) he was telling his steps: and first paid his clumsy respects to
my mother; then to my sister; next to me, as if I was already his wife, and therefore to be
last in his notice; and sitting down by me, told us in general what weather it was. Very cold
he made it; but I was warm enough. Then addressing himself to me: And how do you find it, Miss?
was his question; and would have taken my hand.

I withdrew it, I believe with disdain enough. My mother frowned. My sister bit her lip.

I could not contain myself: I was never so bold in my life; for I went on with my plea, as
if Mr. Solmes had not been there.

My mother coloured, and looked at him, at my sister, and at me. My sister's eyes were opener
and bigger than ever I saw them before.

The man understood me. He hemmed, and removed from one chair to another.

I went on, supplicating for my mother's favourable report: Nothing but invincible dislike, said I--

What would the girl be at, interrupted my mother? Why, Clary! Is this a subject!--Is this!--Is
this!--Is this a time--And again she looked upon Mr. Solmes.

I am sorry, on reflection, that I put my mamma into so much confusion--To be sure it was very
saucy in me.

I beg pardon, Madam, said I. But my papa will soon return. And since I am not permitted to
withdraw, it is not necessary, I humbly presume, that Mr. Solmes's presence should deprive
me of this opportunity to implore your favourable report; and at the same time, if he still
visit on my account [looking at him] to convince him, that it cannot possibly be to any purpose--

Is the girl mad? said my mother, interrupting me.

My sister, with the affectation of a whisper to my mother--This is--This is spite, Madam, [very
spitefully she spoke the word,] because you commanded her to stay.

I only looked at her, and turning to my mother, Permit me, Madam, said I, to repeat my request.
I have no brother, no sister!--If I ever lose my mamma's favour, I am lost for ever!

Mr. Solmes removed to his first seat, and fell to gnawing the head of his hazel; a carved head,
almost as ugly as his own--I did not think the man was so sensible.

My sister rose, with a face all over scarlet; and stepping to the table, where lay a fan, she
took it up, and, although Mr. Solmes had observed that the weather was cold, fanned herself
very violently.

My mother came to me, and angrily taking my hand, led me out of that parlour into my own; which,
you know, is next to it--Is not this behaviour very bold, very provoking, think you, Clary?

I beg your pardon, Madam, if it has that appearance to you. But indeed, my dear Mamma, there
seem to be snares laying in wait for me. Too well I know my brother's drift. With a good word
he shall have my consent for all he wishes to worm me out of--neither he, nor my sister, shall
need to take half this pains--

My mother was about to leave me in high displeasure.

I besought her to stay: One favour, but one favour, dearest Madam, said I, give me leave to
beg of you--

What would the girl?

I see how every thing is working about.--I never, never can think of Mr. Solmes. My papa will
be in tumults when he is told that I cannot. They will judge of the tenderness of your heart
to a poor child who seems devoted by every one else, from the willingness you have already
shewn to hearken to my prayers. There will be endeavours used to confine me, and keep me out
of your presence, and out of the presence of every one who used to love me [this, my dear Miss
Howe, is threatened]. If this be effected; if it be put out of my power to plead my own cause,
and to appeal to you, and to my uncle Harlowe, of whom only I have hope; then will every ear
be opened against me, and every tale encouraged--It is, therefore, my humble request, that,
added to the disgraceful prohibitions I now suffer under, you will not, if you can help it,
give way to my being denied your ear.

Your listening Hannah has given you this intelligence, as she does many others.

My Hannah, Madam, listens not--My Hannah--

No more in Hannah's behalf--Hannah is known to make mischief--Hannah is known--But no more
of that bold intermeddler--'Tis true your father threatened to confine you to your chamber,
if you complied not, in order the more assuredly to deprive you of the opportunity of corresponding
with those who harden your heart against his will. He bid me tell you so, when he went out,
if I found you refractory. But I was loth to deliver so harsh a declaration; being still in
hope that you would come down to us in a compliant temper. Hannah has overheard this, I suppose;
and has told you of it; as also, that he declared he would break your heart, rather than you
should break his. And I now assure you, that you will be confined, and prohibited making teasing
appeals to any of us: and we shall see who is to submit, you to us, or every body to you.

Again I offered to clear Hannah, and to lay the latter part of the intelligence to my sister's
echo, Betty Barnes, who had boasted of it to another servant: but I was again bid to be silent
on that head. I should soon find, my mother was pleased to say, that others could be as determined
as I was obstinate: and once for all would add, that since she saw that I built upon her indulgence,
and was indifferent about involving her in contentions with my father, she would now assure
me, that she was as much determined against Mr. Lovelace, and for Mr. Solmes and the family
schemes, as any body; and would not refuse her consent to any measures that should be thought
necessary to reduce a stubborn child to her duty.

I was ready to sink. She was so good as to lend me her arm to support me.

And this, said I, is all I have to hope for from my Mamma?

It is. But, Clary, this one further opportunity I give you--Go in again to Mr. Solmes, and
behave discreetly to him; and let your father find you together, upon civil terms at least.

My feet moved [of themselves, I think] farther from the parlour where he was, and towards the
stairs; and there I stopped and paused.

If, proceeded she, you are determined to stand in defiance of us all--then indeed you may go
up to your chamber (as you are ready to do)--And God help you!

God help me, indeed! for I cannot give hope of what I cannot intend--But let me have your prayers,
my dear Mamma!--Those shall have mine, who have brought me into all this distress.

I was moving to go up--

And will you go up, Clary?

I turned my face to her: my officious tears would needs plead for me: I could not just then
speak, and stood still.

Good girl, distress me not thus!--Dear, good girl, do not thus distress me! holding out her
hand; but standing still likewise.

What can I do, Madam?--What can I do?

Go in again, my child--Go in again, my dear child!--repeated she; and let your father find
you together.

What, Madam, to give him hope?--To give hope to Mr. Solmes?

Obstinate, perverse, undutiful Clarissa! with a rejecting hand, and angry aspect; then take
your own way, and go up!--But stir not down again, I charge you, without leave, or till your
father's pleasure be known concerning you.

She flung away from me with high indignation: and I went up with a very heavy heart; and feet
as slow as my heart was heavy.

***

My father is come home, and my brother with him. Late as it is, they are all shut up together.
Not a door opens; not a soul stirs. Hannah, as she moves up and down, is shunned as a person
infected.

***

The angry assembly is broken up. My two uncles and my aunt Hervey are sent for, it seems, to
be here in the morning to breakfast. I shall then, I suppose, know my doom. 'Tis past eleven,
and I am ordered not to go to bed.

TWELVE O'CLOCK.

This moment the keys of every thing are taken from me. It was proposed to send for me down:
but my father said, he could not bear to look upon me.--Strange alteration in a few weeks!--Shorey
was the messenger. The tears stood in her eyes when she delivered her message.

You, my dear, are happy--May you always be so--and then I can never be wholly miserable. Adieu,
my beloved friend!

CL. HARLOWE.

LETTER XXII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE SUNDAY MORNING, MARCH 5.

Hannah has just brought me from the private place in the garden-wall, a letter from Mr. Lovelace,
deposited last night, signed also by Lord M.

He tells me in it, 'That Mr. Solmes makes it his boast, that he is to be married in a few days
to one of the shyest women in England: that my brother explains his meaning: This shy creature,
he says, is me; and he assures every one, that his younger sister is very soon to be Mr. Solmes's
wife. He tells me of the patterns bespoken which my mother mentioned to me.'

Not one thing escapes him that is done or said in this house.

'My sister, he says, reports the same things; and that with such particular aggravations of
insult upon him, that he cannot but be extremely piqued, as well at the manner, as from the
occasion; and expresses himself with great violence upon it.

'He knows not, he says, what my relations' inducements can be to prefer such a man as Solmes
to him. If advantageous settlements be the motive, Solmes shall not offer what he will refuse
to comply with.

'As to his estate and family; the first cannot be excepted against: and for the second, he
will not disgrace himself by a comparison so odious. He appeals to Lord M. for the regularity
of his life and manners ever since he has made his addresses to me, or had hope of my favour.'

I suppose he would have his Lordship's signing to this letter to be taken as a voucher for him.

'He desires my leave (in company with my Lord), in a pacific manner, to attend my father and
uncles, in order to make proposals that must be accepted, if they will see him, and hear what
they are: and tells me, that he will submit to any measures that I shall prescribe, in order
to bring about a reconciliation.'

He presumes to be very earnest with me, 'to give him a private meeting some night, in my father's
garden, attended by whom I please.'

Really, my dear, were you to see his letter, you would think I had given him great encouragement,
and that I am in direct treaty with him; or that he is sure that my friends will drive me into
a foreign protection; for he has the boldness to offer, in my Lord's name, an asylum to me,
should I be tyrannically treated in Solmes's behalf.

I suppose it is the way of this sex to endeavour to entangle the thoughtless of ours by bold
supposals and offers, in hopes that we shall be too complaisant or bashful to quarrel with
them; and, if not checked, to reckon upon our silence, as assents voluntarily given, or concessions
made in their favour.

There are other particulars in this letter which I ought to mention to you: but I will take
an opportunity to send you the letter itself, or a copy of it.

For my own part, I am very uneasy to think how I have been drawn on one hand, and driven on
the other, into a clandestine, in short, into a mere loverlike correspondence, which my heart
condemns.

It is easy to see, if I do not break it off, that Mr. Lovelace's advantages, by reason of my
unhappy situation, will every day increase, and I shall be more and more entangled. Yet if
I do put an end to it, without making it a condition of being freed from Mr. Solmes's address--May
I, my dear, is it best to continue it a little longer, in order to extricate myself out of
the other difficulty, by giving up all thoughts of Mr. Lovelace?--Whose advice can I now ask
but yours.

All my relations are met. They are at breakfast together. Mr. Solmes is expected. I am excessively
uneasy. I must lay down my pen.

***

They are all going to church together. Grievously disordered they appear to be, as Hannah tells
me. She believes something is resolved upon.

SUNDAY NOON.

What a cruel thing is suspense!--I will ask leave to go to church this afternoon. I expect
to be denied. But, if I do not ask, they may allege, that my not going is owing to myself.

***

I desired to speak with Shorey. Shorey came. I directed her to carry to my mother my request
for permission to go to church this afternoon. What think you was the return? Tell her, that
she must direct herself to her brother for any favour she has to ask.--So, my dear, I am to
be delivered up to my brother!

I was resolved, however, to ask of him this favour. Accordingly, when they sent me up my solitary
dinner, I gave the messenger a billet, in which I made it my humble request through him to
my father, to be permitted to go to church this afternoon.

This was the contemptuous answer: 'Tell her, that her request will be taken into consideration
to-morrow.'

Patience will be the fittest return I can make to such an insult. But this method will not
do with me; indeed it will not! And yet it is but the beginning, I suppose, of what I am to
expect from my brother, now I am delivered up to him.

On recollection, I thought it best to renew my request. I did. The following is a copy of what
I wrote, and what follows that, of the answer sent me.

SIR,

I know not what to make of the answer brought to my request of being permitted to go to church
this afternoon. If you designed to shew your pleasantry by it, I hope that will continue; and
then my request will be granted.

You know, that I never absented myself, when well, and at home, till the two last Sundays;
when I was advised not to go. My present situation is such, that I never more wanted the benefit
of the public prayers.

I will solemnly engage only to go thither, and back again.

I hope it cannot be thought that I would do otherwise.

My dejection of spirits will give a too just excuse on the score of indisposition for avoiding
visits. Nor will I, but by distant civilities, return the compliments of any of my acquaintances.
My disgraces, if they are to have an end, need not be proclaimed to the whole world. I ask
this favour, therefore, for my reputation's sake, that I may be able to hold up my head in
the neighbourhood, if I live to see an end of the unmerited severities which seem to be designed
for

Your unhappy sister, CL. HARLOWE.

TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE

For a girl to lay so much stress upon going to church, and yet resolve to defy her parents,
in an article of the greatest consequence to them, and to the whole family, is an absurdity.
You are recommended, Miss, to the practice of your private devotions. May they be efficacious
upon the mind of one of the most pervicacious young creatures that ever was heard of! The intention
is, I tell you plainly, to mortify you into a sense of your duty. The neighbours you are so
solicitous to appear well with, already know, that you defy that. So, Miss, if you have a real
value for your reputation, shew it as you ought. It is yet in your own power to establish or
impair it.

JA. HARLOWE.

Thus, my dear Miss Howe, has my brother got me into his snares; and I, like a poor silly bird,
the more I struggle, am the more entangled.

LETTER XXIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE MONDAY MORNING, MARCH 6.

They are resolved to break my heart. My poor Hannah is discharged--disgracefully discharged!--Thus
it was.

Within half an hour after I had sent the poor girl down for my breakfast, that bold creature
Betty Barnes, my sister's confidant and servant, (if a favourite maid and confidant can be
deemed a servant,) came up.

What, Miss, will you please to have for breakfast?

I was surprised. What will I have for breakfast, Betty!--How!--What!--How comes it!--Then I
named Hannah. I could not tell what to say.

Don't be surprised, Miss:--but you'll see Hannah no more in this house.

God forbid!--Is any harm come to Hannah?--What! What is the matter with Hannah?

Why, Miss, the short and the long is this: Your papa and mamma think Hannah has staid long
enough in the house to do mischief; and so she is ordered to troop [that was the confident
creature's word]; and I am directed to wait upon you in her stead.

I burst into tears. I have no service for you, Betty Barnes; none at all. But where is Hannah?
Cannot I speak with the poor girl? I owe her half a year's wages. May I not see the honest
creature, and pay her her wages? I may never see her again perhaps; for they are resolved to
break my heart.

And they think you are resolved to break theirs: so tit for tat, Miss.

Impertinent I called her; and asked her, if it were upon such confident terms that her service
was to begin.

I was so very earnest to see the poor maid, that (to oblige me, as she said) she went down
with my request.

The worthy creature was as earnest to see me; and the favour was granted in presence of Shorey
and Betty.

I thanked her, when she came up, for her past service to me.

Her heart was ready to break. And she began to vindicate her fidelity and love; and disclaimed
any mischief she had ever made.

I told her, that those who occasioned her being turned out of my service, made no question
of her integrity: that her dismission was intended for an indignity to me: that I was very
sorry to be obliged to part with her, and hoped she would meet with as good a service.

Never, never, wringing her hands, should she meet with a mistress she loved so well. And the
poor creature ran on in my praises, and in professions of love to me.

We are all apt, you know, my dear, to praise our benefactors, because they are our benefactors;
as if every body did right or wrong, as they obliged or disobliged us. But this good creature
deserved to be kindly treated; so I could have no merit in favouring one whom it would have
been ungrateful not to distinguish.

I gave her a little linen, some laces, and other odd things; and instead of four pounds which
were due to her, ten guineas: and said, if ever I were again allowed to be my own mistress,
I would think of her in the first place.

Betty enviously whispered Shorey upon it.

Hannah told me, before their faces, having no other opportunity, that she had been examined
about letters to me, and from me: and that she had given her pockets to Miss Harlowe, who looked
into them, and put her fingers in her stays, to satisfy herself that she had not any.

She gave me an account of the number of my pheasants and bantams; and I said, they should be
my own care twice or thrice a day.

We wept over each other at parting. The girl prayed for all the family.

To have so good a servant so disgracefully dismissed, is very cruel: and I could not help saying
that these methods might break my heart, but not any other way answer the end of the authors
of my disgraces.

Betty, with a very saucy fleer, said to Shorey, There would be a trial of skill about that
she fancied. But I took no notice of it. If this wench thinks that I have robbed her young
mistress of a lover, as you say she has given out, she may believe that it is some degree of
merit in herself to be impertinent to me.

Thus have I been forced to part with my faithful Hannah. If you can command the good creature
to a place worthy of her, pray do for my sake.

LETTER XXIV

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE MONDAY, NEAR 12 O'CLOCK.

The enclosed letter was just now delivered to me. My brother has carried all his points.

I send you also the copy of my answer. No more at this time can I write--!

MONDAY, MAR. 6.

MISS CLARY,

By command of your father and mother I write expressly to forbid you to come into their presence,
or into the garden when they are there: nor when they are not there, but with Betty Banes to
attend you; except by particular license or command.

On their blessings, you are forbidden likewise to correspond with the vile Lovelace; as it
is well known you did by means of your sly Hannah. Whence her sudden discharge. As was fit.

Neither are you to correspond with Miss Howe; who has given herself high airs of late; and
might possibly help on your correspondence with that detested libertine. Nor, in short, with
any body without leave.

You are not to enter into the presence of either of your uncles, without their leave first
obtained. It is a mercy to you, after such a behaviour to your mother, that your father refuses
to see you.

You are not to be seen in any apartment of the house you so lately governed as you pleased,
unless you are commanded down.

In short, you are strictly to confine yourself to your chamber, except now and then, in Betty
Barnes's sight (as aforesaid) you take a morning or evening turn in the garden: and then you
are to go directly, and without stopping at any apartment in the way, up or down the back stairs,
that the sight of so perverse a young creature may not add to the pain you have given every body.

The hourly threatenings of your fine fellow, as well as your own unheard-of obstinacy, will
account to you for all this. What a hand has the best and most indulgent of mothers had with
you, who so long pleaded for you, and undertook for you; even when others, from the manner
of your setting out, despaired of moving you!--What must your perverseness have been, that
such a mother can give you up! She thinks it right so to do: nor will take you to favour, unless
you make the first steps, by a compliance with your duty.

As for myself, whom perhaps you think hardly of [in very good company, if you do, that is my
sole consolation]; I have advised, that you may be permitted to pursue your own inclinations,
(some people need no greater punishment than such a permission,) and not to have the house
encumbered by one who must give them the more pain for the necessity she has laid them under
of avoiding the sight of her, although in it.

If any thing I have written appear severe or harsh, it is still in your power (but perhaps
will not always be so) to remedy it; and that by a single word.

Betty Barnes has orders to obey you in all points consistent with her duty to those whom you
owe it, as well as she.

JA. HARLOWE.

TO JAMES HARLOWE, JUNIOR, ESQ.

SIR,

I will only say, That you may congratulate yourself on having so far succeeded in all your
views, that you may report what you please of me, and I can no more defend myself, than if
I were dead. Yet one favour, nevertheless, I will beg of you. It is this--That you will not
occasion more severities, more disgraces, that are necessary for carrying into execution your
further designs, whatever they be, against

Your unhappy sister, CLARISSA HARLOWE.

LETTER XXV

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE TUESDAY, MARCH 7.

By my last deposit, you will see how I am driven, and what a poor prisoner I am.--No regard
had to my reputation. The whole matter is now before you. Can such measures be supposed to
soften?--But surely they can only mean to try and frighten me into my brother's views!--All
my hope is, to be able to weather this point till my cousin Morden comes from Florence; and
he is soon expected: yet, if they are determined upon a short day, I doubt he will not be here
in time enough to save me.

It is plain by my brother's letter, that my mother has not spared me, in the report she was
pleased to make of the conference between herself and me: yet she was pleased to hint to me,
that my brother had views which she would have had me try to disappoint. But indeed she had
engaged to give a faithful account of what was to pass between herself and me: and it was,
doubtless, much more eligible to give up a daughter, than to disoblige a husband, and every
other person of the family.

They think they have done every thing by turning away my poor Hannah: but as long as the liberty
of the garden, and my poultry-visits, are allowed me, they will be mistaken.

I asked Mrs. Betty, if she had any orders to watch or attend me; or whether I was to ask her
leave whenever I should be disposed to walk in the garden, or to go feed my bantams?--Lord
bless her! what could I mean by such a question! Yet she owned, that she had heard, that I
was not to go into the garden, when my father, mother, or uncles were there.

However, as it behoved me to be assured on this head, I went down directly, and staid an hour,
without question or impediment; and yet a good part of the time, I walked under and in sight,
as I may say, of my brother's study window, where both he and my sister happened to be. And
I am sure they saw me, by the loud mirth they affected, by way of insult, as I suppose.

So this part of my restraint was doubtless a stretch of the authority given him. The enforcing
of that may perhaps come next. But I hope not.

TUESDAY NIGHT.

Since I wrote the above, I ventured to send a letter by Shorey to my mother. I desired her
to give it into her own hand, when nobody was by.

I shall enclose a copy of it. You will see that I would have it thought, that now Hannah is
gone, I have no way to correspond out of the house. I am far from thinking all I do right.
I am afraid this is a little piece of art, that is not so. But this is an afterthought. The
letter went first.

HONOURED MADAM,

Having acknowledged to you, that I had received letters from Mr. Lovelace full of resentment,
and that I answered them purely to prevent further mischief, and having shewn you copies of
my answers, which you did not disapprove of, although you thought fit, after you had read them,
to forbid me any further correspondence with him, I think it my duty to acquaint you, that
another letter from him has since come to my hand, in which he is very earnest with me to permit
him to wait on my papa, or you, or my two uncles, in a pacific way, accompanied by Lord M.:
on which I beg your commands.

I own to you, Madam, that had not the prohibition been renewed, and had not Hannah been so
suddenly dismissed my service, I should have made the less scruple to have written an answer,
and to have commanded her to convey it to him, with all speed, in order to dissuade him from
these visits, lest any thing should happen on the occasion that my heart aches but to think of.

And here I cannot but express my grief, that I should have all the punishment and all the blame,
who, as I have reason to think, have prevented great mischief, and have not been the occasion
of any. For, Madam, could I be supposed to govern the passions of either of the gentlemen?--Over
the one indeed I have had some little influence, without giving him hitherto any reason to
think he has fastened an obligation upon me for it.--Over the other, Who, Madam, has any?--I
am grieved at heart, to be obliged to lay so great a blame at my brother's door, although my
reputation and my liberty are both to be sacrificed to his resentment and ambition. May not,
however, so deep a sufferer be permitted to speak out?

This communication being as voluntarily made, as dutifully intended, I humbly presume to hope,
that I shall not be required to produce the letter itself. I cannot either in honour or prudence
do that, because of the vehemence of his style; for having heard [not, I assure you, by my
means, or through Hannah's] of some part of the harsh treatment I have met with; he thinks
himself entitled to place it to his own account, by reason of speeches thrown out by some of
my relations, equally vehement.

