This was just what the pastor wanted. He wished Walter to speak first, to see what conclusions
the boy had arrived at, before he expressed his own opinion, so he readily gave his consent
and said, "Speak your mind freely, son, and if I cannot agree with you on all points, we will
take up those points afterwards and discuss them." As he finished reading this verse, he looked
at his father and said, "You will notice, father, that the Bible says, 'the Lord God' formed
this dust man, and this is not the same God that created man in his image and likeness. You
will also notice that in the first narrative it simply speaks of God creating everything, and
in the second narrative it always speaks of the Lord God as having made everything and--"

"Wait, Walter," said the pastor hurriedly. 

Give me, "implored Francesco," my past and my tight security and command the evil angels, they
may cease to be sent their dangerous attacks against your helpless servant. Lead, O lead us not
into temptation. I climbed to the poor sinners in your service, make that I find myself back in the
limited class set my sacred duty.

"Francesco's prayers were not the former clarity and visibility. He asked for things that exclude
each other. He was sometimes even doubtful whether the power of passion, wearing his prayers,
from heaven or from other sources. That is, he did not know quite whether he plead not about
the sky in fact a hell of a good. It was about Christian compassion and priestly concern have sprung
when he included the siblings Scarabota in his prayer. However, it behaved as if he pleaded earnestly
to become fervent tears the sky to save Agata?

To this question he could for the time being still answer yes, because the significant movement
of the most powerful instinct, which he had felt at seeing the girl was in an enthusiastic sense of
infinite gone for something pure. This transformation was the cause that Francesco did not notice
how the fruit of mortal sin, instead of Mary, Mother of God intrudes, and for his prayers and
thoughts were, the incarnation of the Madonna was. On May Day began in the Church of Soana,
as elsewhere, a special service Marie, whose perception of the vigilance of the young priest
to sleep even more. Again, day after day, at the time of dusk, he kept mainly to the women and
daughters Soana, a small discourse that the virtues of the Blessed
Virgin to that effect.

"It does seem strange that such a change should be made, if it was not done for a purpose,"
said Mrs. Williams.

"I believe I can explain why the change was made," said Walter.

"Very well, Walter," said the pastor, "let us hear your explanation."

"Well, father, as I understand it, the first creation is real, it being the work of God. Then
the Bible speaks of that mist or misapprehension that arose, and the story told in the second
narrative is this misapprehension. Therefore, I should judge that Lord God would mean a man-conceived
God; and man, through misapprehending the real character and nature of Deity, believes the
earth and man were created according to the second narrative, which would agree with all our
present ideas. This lie believed the shepherd. pointing with his coarse laugh and healthy teeth, but with
embarrassment, he accompanied the story of the priest and made a Seat handle, throwing his jacket
from his shoulders and spreading out over the side of the road on
fire. Then again, everything that God made was
good--and this dust man is more evil than good; and as God, who is conceded as being all good,
made all, and pronounced all He made good, this dust or material man, being evil, was never
made, but, through a misapprehension, we think man to be material, and believe him to be the
real man. To illustrate what I mean, say some one told you a falsehood and you believed it
to be the truth; then the lie would seem true to you. Nevertheless, because you believe this
lie to be the truth, it would not make a truth of it, as it would be a lie still, regardless
of your belief. He was not from the area Bell enters
the oven, as the sound penetrated a female voice to him, who suddenly in turn makes us forget all
meditations. The voice was such that he was not on the Thought was that it could belong to the
same abandoned shepherdess. Francesco had not only to Rome, the church singer of the Vatican,
but also often used with his mother in Milan secular singers heard, and so he was coloratura
and bel canto of the prima donnas not unknown. He stood still involuntarily and waited. Undoubtedly
there are tourists of Milan, he probably thought and hoped, in passing, the owner of this
magnificent Agree to consider. Since she does not wish he was on foot in front, carefully descending
down into the dizzying depths.

What Francesco had experienced as a whole and in detail in this work program was externally
not worth mentioning if the atrocity does not take into consideration that their breeding grounds
in the hut of the poor had siblings Scarabota. But the young priest felt immediately, as this Ascent
has become for him an event of great importance was, if he also has all Extent of this significance
has not yet removed temporarily knew all. He felt that from the inside out a transformation had
taken with him. He was in a new state, the him from minute to minute, strange and somewhat
suspicious, but was still far from so suspect that he probably sensed the Satan or thrown around
an inkwell at him would have if he had had in his pocket. The mountain was like a paradise under
him. For the first time he wished to involuntarily clasped hands, happiness, been entrusted
by his superiors just with the administration of the parish to be. What was, held against this
delicious depth, Petri cloth held at three corners of the angels Heaven came. Where there
was a human-tag larger Majesty how these inaccessible Generoso crags, where on and on the dull
thunder of spring melting snow was audible in avalanches.

* * * * *

       

From the day of his visit to the outlaws in itself was not to his surprise, Francesco Previous
find more peace in the thoughtless of his former existence. The new face that adopted by nature
for him faded, no more, and she wanted to be in any way push back into their former, inanimate
state can. The nature of their actions, by The priest was not only during the day, but in his
dreams beängstet, called he and he first recognized as a temptation. And since the faith of
the Church, merely because is that he fought, merged with the pagan superstition, led Francesco
his transformation in all seriousness to the touch of that wooden object back, that Little
Mandrake, which had saved the shaggy shepherd from the fire.


Now the pastor advanced to where Walter stood, looked at him inquiringly, laid his hand on
his arm, and said, "Sit down, Walter, don't get excited about this question; we will all understand
it better after a while." Then looking at his wife, he said, "Mother, don't you think we have
had enough Bible lesson for this evening?"

His wife was surprised at the question, for she had not thought of Walter as being demented.
She could not see why the pastor wished to discontinue the lesson, for they had only begun;
but, ever ready to agree with her husband, she answered, "Just as you think, James."

Walter looked at his father for a moment, wondering what could be the matter, and as he thought
of all he had said, it occured to him that his father must think he had lost his reason; this
struck him as so ridiculous that he burst out laughing, more heartily than he had ever done
in his life, for he felt better and more free than ever before. But his laughter only made
matters worse as it confirmed his father's opinion in regard to his having lost his reason;
and now the good man sadly shook his head, saying, "It is worse than I thought."

This only made Walter laugh the heartier.

The mother looked from her laughing son to her sorrowing husband, wondering what it all meant.
At last she said, "James, what is worse than you thought?"

Before the pastor could answer, Walter said, "Mother, father thinks I have gone crazy, and
this seemed so ridiculous to me that I could not control my laughter."

"Crazy!" ejaculated the mother, "did you think that, James?"

The pastor did not answer. He had supposed that no one but a demented person would say the
things Walter had said, but it certainly was not the act of a demented person to guess what
he had thought. The State of the utmost demands of obedience and sacrifice from its citizens, disenfranchised
But while she by an excess of concealment and censorship of communication and expression, which the mood
of the so intellectually oppressed makes defenseless against any adverse Situation and every
desert rumor. He replaces himself away from assurances and agreements by which he had bound
himself against other states, committed without fear to his greed and his quest for power,
then the individual should approve of patriotism. I read a parable to-day that I think will explain what I mean. He had done a terrible case; was in this circumstance not to argue. The
question was whether a survey of this fall, this terrible sin, even posible. The fall was so low and
tragic that even priests dispaired. Not only in church, but even in the secular sense, it the
most terrible event ever. Francesco Sindacos thought about how he has talked to him abut the possible
salvation of the reprobate of he Alpe.

"Walter," said his father rather sternly, "I think you have said enough on this question. Do
you think it common sense for you to put yourself up as a greater authority as to what the
Bible means than all the great men who have labored all their lives on the Bible? I do not
wonder that I thought for a moment you had lost your reason, as I do not think any sane person
would advance such a chimerical idea, and claim it to be the truth, as you have done. In reality there there
is no "extermination" of evil. The psychological - in the strict sense, the psychoanalytic - But
research shows that the deepest essence of man in impulses, the elementary nature, all people
are alike and some to the satisfaction original concrete type. These impulses are in themselves
neither good nor evil. We classify them and their statements in such a manner depending on its
relationship to the needs and requirements of the human community.
eds and requirements of the human community.
 I was not aware that you knew so
little of what it contained, for you do not seem to grasp the simplest statements when I explain
them to you."

