A wood ceiling in natural colour is always a good feature in a room of defined or serious purpose,
like a hall, dining-room, or library, because in such rooms the colour of the side walls is
apt to be strong enough to balance it. Indeed a wooden ceiling has always the merit of being
secure in its place, and even where the walls are light can be painted so as to be in harmony
with them. Plaster as a ceiling for bedrooms is open to the objection of a possibility of its
detaching itself from the lath, especially in old houses, and in these it is well to have them
strengthened with flat mouldings of wood put on in regular squares, or even in some geometrical
design, and painted with the ceiling. This gives security as well as a certain elaborateness
of effect not without its value.

For the ordinary, or comparatively inexpensive home, we need not consider the ceiling an object
for serious study, because it is so constantly out of the line of sight, and because its natural
colourless condition is no bar to the general colour-effect.

In large rooms this condition is changed, for in a long perspective the ceiling comes into
sight and consciousness. There would be a sense of barrenness and poverty in a long stretch
of plain surface or unbroken colour over a vista of decorated wall, and accordingly the ceilings
of large and important rooms are generally broken by plaster mouldings or architectural ornament.

In rooms of this kind, whether in public or private buildings, decorative painting has its
proper and appropriate place. A painted ceiling, no matter how beautiful, is quite superfluous
and indeed absolutely lost in a room where size prevents its being brought into the field of
the eye by the lowering of long perspective lines, but when the size of the room gives unusual
length of ceiling, no effect of decoration is so valuable and precious. Colour and gilding
upon a ceiling, when well sustained by fine composition or treatment, is undoubtedly the highest
and best achievement of the decorative painter's art.

Such a ceiling in a large and stately drawing-room, where the walls are hung with silk which
gives broken indications of graceful design in play of light upon the texture, is one of the
most successful of both modern as well as antique methods of decoration. It has come down in
direct succession of practice to the school of French decoration of to-day, and has been adopted
into American fashion in its full and complete practice without sufficient adaptation to American
circumstances. If it were modified by these, it is capable of absorbing other and better qualities
than those of mere fashion and brilliance, as we see in occasional instances in some beautiful
American houses, where the ceilings have been painted, and the textiles woven with an almost
imaginative appropriateness of subject. Such ceilings as this belong, of course, to the efforts
of the mural or decorative painter, who, in conjunction with the decorator, or architect, has
studied the subject as connected with its surroundings.

CHAPTER XI

FLOORS AND FLOOR-COVERINGS

Although in ordinary sequence the colouring of floors comes after that of walls, the fact that--in
important houses--costly and elaborate floors of mosaic or of inlaid wood form part of the
architect's plan, makes it necessary to consider the effect of inherent or natural colours
of such floors, in connection with applied colour-schemes in rooms.

Mosaic floors, being as a rule confined to halls in private houses, need hardly be considered
in this relation, and costly wood floors are almost necessarily confined to the yellows of
the natural woods. These yellows range from pale buff to olive, and are not as a rule inharmonious
with any other tint, although they often lack sufficient strength or intensity to hold their
own with stronger tints of walls and furniture.

As it is one of the principles of colour in a house that the floor is the foundation of the
room, this weakness of colour in hard-wood floors must be acknowledged as a disadvantage. The
floors should certainly be able to support the room in colour as well as in construction. It
must be the strongest tint in the room, and yet it must have the unobtrusiveness of strength.
This makes floor treatment a more difficult problem, or one requiring more thought than is
generally supposed, and explains why light rooms are more successful with hard-wood floors
than medium or very dark ones.

There are many reasons, sanitary as well as economic, why hard-wood floors should not be covered
in ordinary dwelling-houses; and when the pores of the wood are properly filled, and the surface
kept well polished, it is not only good as a fact, but as an effect, as it reflects surrounding
tints, and does much to make up for lack of sympathetic or related colour. No, she would not think
of that; she would not. When two are separated, one must love enough to bridge the gulf-- what
matter which one? It seemed now as if there were so much that she might have given, if all
this torrent of love that nearly broke her heart might have been
poured out and poured out at his feet-- lavished on him, without regard
to need or fitness or expense, as Mary lavished her precious box of
spikenard on One she loved.

Now that he was gone, there could be nothing too hard to have done for him, no words too sweet
for her to have said to him.

Redge woke up and cried for her, and she told him hoarsely to be still; and then, suddenly
conscience-stricken and fearful at the slighting of this other demand of love,-- what awful reprisal
might it not exact from her?-- she went to kiss the child, to infold him in her arms, the boy that
Justin loved, before she bade him go to sleep, for mother would stay by her darling. And, left
to herself again, the grinding and destroying wheel of thought had
her bound to it once more.

He could not have left her of his own will! If he did not come, it would be because he was dead-- and
then he could never know, never, never know.

There would be nothing left to her but the place where he had been. She looked at the walls and the
homely furnishings as one seeing them for the first time bare forever of the beloved presence,
and fell on her knees, and went on them around the room, dragging herself from chair to sofa,
from sofa to bed,-- these were the Stations of the Cross that she was making,-- with sobs and
cries, low and inarticulate, yet carrying with them the awful anguish
of a heart laid bare before the Almighty.

Here his dear hand had rested, while he thought of her; on this table-- here-- and here; and
here his head had lain. Her tears ceased; she buried her face in the pillow. She must go after
him, wherever he was, in this world or another. For he was her husband. Where he was she must
be, either in body or in spirit.

The telephone-bell rang, and Dosia answered it, the voice at the other
end inquiring for Mr. Girard, cautiously, it seemed, withholding information
from any other.

The doctor rang up, in response to an earlier call, with directions for Redge. Hardly had
the receiver been laid down when the door-bell clanged. This was to be a night of the ringing
of bells!

XXII This time, of course, the visitor was Mrs. Snow.

In any exigency, any mind-and body-absorbing event of life, the inopportune presence of Mrs.
Snow was inexorably to be counted on, though it came always as one of those exasperating recurrences
which bring with them a ridiculously fresh irritation each time. It seemed to be the one extra
thing you couldn't stand. In either trouble or joy, she affected one like a clinging, ankle-flapping
mackintosh on a rainy day. She bowed now to Dosia with a patronizing dignity, pointed by the plaintive
warmth of the greeting to Lois, who had come hurrying down-stairs out of those passion-depths
of darkness, so that Mrs. Snow wouldn't suspect anything. She had an uncanny faculty of divining
just what you didn't want her to. Once before Lois had suspended tragedy for Mrs. Snow. The
same things
happen to us over and over again daily in our crowded yet restricted
lives-- it is we who change in our meeting with them. We have our great
passions, our great joys, our heartbreaks, no matter how small our environment.
"How do you do, my dear? Mr. Girard has just told me that he was going
to stay here to-night, in Mr. Alexander's absence. Nevertheless, in spite of his best knowledge and intention, the difficulty
remains. There is no one patch of colour larger than another, or more irregular in form. There
is nothing which has not its exact counterpart at an exact distance--north, south, east and
west, or northeast, southeast, northwest and southwest--and this is why a carpet with good
design and excellent colour becomes unbearable in a room of large size. In a small room where
there are not so many repeats, the effect is not as bad, but in a large room the monotonous
repetition is almost without remedy.

Of course there are certain laws of optics and ingenuities of composition which may palliate
this effect, but the fact remains that the floor should be covered in a way which will leave
the mind tranquil and the eye satisfied, and this is hard to accomplish with what is commonly
known as a figured carpet.

If carpet is to be used, it seems, then, that the simplest way is to select a good monochrome
in the prevailing tint of the room, but several shades darker. Not an absolutely plain surface,
but one broken with some unobtrusive design or pattern in still darker darks and lighter lights
than the general tone. In this case we shall have the room harmonious, it is true, but lacking
the element which provokes admiration--the enlivening effect of contrast. This may be secured
by making the centre or main part of the carpet comparatively small, and using a very wide
and important border of contrasting colour--a border so wide as to make itself an important
part of the carpet. In large rooms this plan does not entirely obviate the difficulty, as it
leaves the central space still too large and impressive to remain unbroken; but the remedy
may be found in the use of hearth-rugs or skin-rugs, so placed as to seem necessities of use.

As I have said before, contrast on a broad scale can be secured by choosing carpets of an entirely
different tone from the wall, and this is sometimes expedient. For instance, as contrast to
a copper-coloured wall, a softly toned green carpet is nearly always successful. This one colour,
green, is always safe and satisfactory in a floor-covering, provided the walls are not too
strong in tone, and provided that the green in the carpet is not too green. Certain brownish
greens possess the quality of being in harmony with every other colour. They are the most peaceable
shades in the colour-world--the only ones without positive antipathies. Green in all the paler
tones can claim the title of peace-maker among colours, since all the other tints will fight
with something else, but never with green of a corresponding or even of a much greater strength.
Of course this valuable quality, combined with a natural restfulness of effect, makes it the
safest of ordinary floor-coverings.

In bedrooms with polished floors and light walls good colour-effects can be secured without
carpets, but if the floors are of pine and need covering, no better general effect can be secured
than that of plain or mixed ingrain filling, using with it Oriental hearth and bedside rugs.

The entire second floor of a house can in that case be covered with carpet in the accommodating
tint of green mentioned, leaving the various colour-connections to be made with differently
tinted rugs. Good pine floors well fitted and finished can be stained to harmonise with almost
any tint used in furniture or upon the wall.

I remember a sea-side chamber in a house where the mistress had great natural decorative ability,
and so much cultivation as to prevent its running away with her, where the floor was stained
a transparent olive, like depths of sea-water, and here and there a floating sea-weed, or a
form of sea-life faintly outlined within the colour. In this room, which seemed wide open to
the sea and air, even when the windows were closed, the walls were of a faint greenish blue,
like what is called dead turquoise, and the relation between floor and walls was so perfect
that it remained with me to this day as a crowning instance of satisfaction in colour.

It is perhaps more difficult to convey an idea of happy choice or selection of floor-colour
than of walls, because it is relative to walls. It must relate to what has already been done.
But in recapitulation it is safe to say, first, that in choosing colour for a room, soft and
medium tints are better than positively dark or bright ones, and that walls should be unobtrusive
in design as well as colour; secondly, that floors, if of the same tint as walls, should be
much darker; and that they should be made apparent by means of this strength of colour, or
by the addition of rugs or borders, although the relation between walls and floor must be carefully
preserved and perfectly unmistakable, for it is the perfection of this relation of one colour
to another which makes home decoration an art.

There is still a word to be said as to floor-coverings, which relates to healthful housekeeping
instead of art, and that is, that in all cases where carpets or mattings are used, they should
be in rug form, not fitted in to irregular floor-spaces; so as to be frequently and easily
lifted and cleaned. The great, and indeed the only, objection to the use of mattings in country
or summer houses, is the difficulty of frequent lifting, and removal of accumulated dust, which
has sifted through to the floor--but if fine hemp-warp mattings are used, and sewn into squares
which cover the floor sufficiently, it is an ideal summer floor-covering, as it can be rolled
and removed even more easily than a carpet, and there is a dust-shedding quality in it which
commends itself to the housekeeper.

CHAPTER XII

DRAPERIES

Draperies are not always considered as a part of furnishings, yet in truth--as far as decorative
necessities are concerned--they should come immediately after wall and floor coverings. The
householder who is in haste to complete the arrangement of the home naturally thinks first
of chairs, sofas, and tables, because they come into immediate personal use, but if draperies
are recognised as a necessary part of the beauty of the house it is worth while to study their
appropriate character from the first. They have in truth much more to do with the effect of
the room than chairs or sofas, since these are speedily sat upon and pass out of notice, while
draperies or portières are in the nature of pictures--hanging in everybody's sight. As far
as the element of beauty is concerned, a room having good colour, attractive and interesting
pictures, and beautiful draperies, is already furnished. Whatever else goes to the making of
it may be also beautiful, but it must be convenient and useful, while in the selection of draperies,
beauty, both relative and positive, is quite untrammelled.

As in all other furnishings, from the æsthetic point of view colour is the first thing to be
considered. As a rule it should follow that of the walls, a continuous effect of colour with
variation of form and surface being a valuable and beautiful thing to secure. To give the full
value of variation--where the walls are plain one should choose a figured stuff for curtains;
where the wall is papered, or covered with figures, a plain material should be used.

There is one exception to this rule and this is in the case of walls hung with damask. Here
it is best to use the same material for curtains, as the effect is obtained by the difference
between the damask hung in folds, with the design indistinguishable, or stretched flat upon
a wall-surface, where it is plainly to be seen and felt. Even where damask is used upon the
walls, if exactly the same shade of colour can be found in satin or velvet, the plain material
in drapery will enhance the value of design on the walls.

This choice or selection of colour applies to curtains and portières as simple adjuncts of
furnishing, and not to such pieces of drapery as are in themselves works of art. When a textile
becomes a work of art it is in a measure a law unto itself, and has as much right to select
its own colour as if it were a picture instead of a portière, in fact if it is sufficiently
important, the room must follow instead of leading. "I see," he said again, and then he turned and
called to mother. "Helen!" And mother came in, with a piece of white
sewing in her hands.

"Helen," said Papa Jack, "it's a case of bullying. The boy promised you not to fight, and he
didn't. It's a mistake, mother.

He's been set upon by some young bully, and couldn't defend himself
because of his promise."

Mother looked at Bob; there was distress in her eyes, but something
else came into them, too.

"It's
only the beginning, dear-- the beginning of battles," said Papa Jack, and he put his other
hand on mother's. "Bob," he said, "mother doesn't mean you're not
to defend yourself.

Understand? By fighting, mother only means beginning fights, picking
fights, provoking other boys to fight.

We have to defend ourselves. It isn't right to pick a fight; that's what mother means." Bob saw
tears come into his mother's eyes. Papa Jack saw them, too. "There's
only one way among boys, Helen dear.

The bullies must be fought, you know.

Our boy's got to be a boy's boy if he's to be a man's man by-and-by."

Suddenly mother bent over and kissed Bob, and held him, with her arms thrust under and about
him-- held him hard.

"The only thing, Bob, is to be a man always. Be square and white. Do the right thing. I can't
tell you what it will be every time; neither can anybody else: but
you your own self will know.

It may be right even to fight sometimes, for yourself and for others who are bullied; but every
boy knows for himself when it's right and when it's wrong. If he does
as he knows, he'll do right." It was a quiet lunch that day. Father and
mother talked little and the meal was quickly over. Bob hardly knew
what he himself ate or did or thought. There was a strange excitement
in his heart and in his head, a feeling that he could not define.

It was not that he was going back to school after
dinner. It was not that he would probably meet those boys again,
nor that he would sooner or later have to face again that Curly Davis.
Neither was it that, when he did face Curly Davis, he meant to--
yes, to fight him. No, it was none of these things, though his heart
did beat the faster as he thought of them.

After colour in draperies come texture and quality, and these need hardly be discussed in the
case of silken fabrics, because silk fibre has inherent qualities of tenacity of tint and flexibility
of substance. Pure silk, that is silk unstiffened with gums, no matter how thickly and heavily
it is woven, is soft and yielding and will fall into folds without sharp angles. This quality
of softness is in its very substance. Even a single unwoven thread of silk will drop gracefully
into loops, where a cotton or linen or even a woollen thread will show stiffness.

Woollen fibre seems to acquire softness as it is gathered into yarns and woven, and will hang
in folds with almost the same grace as silk; but unfortunately they are favourite pasture grounds
as well as burying-places for moths, and although these co-inhabitants of our houses come to
a speedy resurrection, they devour their very graves, and leave our woollen draperies irremediably
damaged. It is a pity that woollen fabrics should in this way be made undesirable for household
use, for they possess in a great degree the two most valuable qualities of silk: colour-tenacity
and flexibility. If one adopts woollen curtains and portières, constant "vigilance is the price
of safety," and considering that vigilance is required everywhere and at all times in the household,
it is best to reduce the quantity whenever it is possible.

This throws us back upon cottons and linens for inexpensive hangings, and in all the thousand
forms in which these two fibres are manufactured it would seem easy to choose those which are
beautiful, durable, and appropriate. But here we are met at the very threshold of choice with
the two undesirable qualities of fugitive colour, and stiffness of texture. Something in the
nature of cotton makes it inhospitable to dyes. If it receives them it is with a protest, and
an evident intention of casting them out at the earliest opportunity--it makes, it is true,
one or two exceptions. It welcomes indigo dye and will never quite relinquish its companionship;
once received, it will carry its colours through all its serviceable life, and when it is finally
ready to fall into dust, it is still loyally coloured by its influence. If it is cheated, as
we ourselves are apt to be, into accepting spurious indigo, made up of chemical preparations,
it speedily discovers the cheat and refuses its colouring. Perhaps this sympathy is due to
a vegetable kinship and likeness of experience, for where cotton will grow, indigo will also
flourish.

In printed cottons or chintzes, there is a reasonable amount of fidelity to colour, and if
chintz curtains are well chosen, and lined to protect them from the sun, their attractiveness
bears a fair proportion to their durability.

An interlining of some strong and tried colour will give a very soft and subtle daylight effect
in a room, but this is, of course, lost in the evening. The expedient of an under colour in
curtain linings will sometimes give delightful results in plain or unprinted goods, and sometimes
a lining with a strong and bold design will produce a charming shadow effect upon a tinted
surface--of course each new experiment must be tried before one can be certain of its effect,
and, in fact, there is rather an exciting uncertainty as to results. Yet there are infinite
possibilities to the householder who has what is called the artistic instinct and the leisure
and willingness to experiment, and experiments need not be limited to prints or to cottons,
for wonderful combinations of colour are possible in silks where light is called in as an influence
in the composition. One must, however, expect to forego these effects except in daylight, but
as artificial light has its own subtleties of effect, the one can be balanced against the other.
In my own country-house I have used the two strongest colours--red and blue--in this doubled
way, with delightful effect. The blue, which is the face colour, presenting long, pure folds
of blue, with warmed reddish shadows between, while at sunset, when the rays of light are level,
the variations are like a sunset sky. 

'I'll stick to Brunner,'says he.

"'All right,'says I,'come on.'"

When we started afoot, we trailed out single file, and I noticed
that old man Thomas waited for the boy and me to pass him, dropping
in right behind his son.'Cap'was in front, then Bruce, then Paden
Tolbert, then Ryder and Kelso, and then I and the Thomases.

The old man was at the tail of the procession. "Old man Thomas was the kind that you never think
about one way or the other.

You said to yourself that he would do his share, whatever it amounted to, and you wouldn't have to
bother about him. That's your notion of him, ain't it?" It was my notion of the older Thomas. I
don't think a more commonplace looking man ever lived.

Brunner told me that he had not changed in fourteen years. "'Young Henry swells around and talks big;
the old man he says nothing and chaws tobacco,'That's the way people
size'em up around here."

Brunner thus confirmed my own impression of the pair. "What a man can see out of the back of his
head," Brunner went on, "is a lot different from what comes in front
of his eyes.

He feels a lot that don't make a sound and that ain't visible. I did see, out of the corner
of my eye, that young Henry Thomas was dropping behind me little by little, but I didn't see why
it was he moved up again. I know why, though. The old man had ordered him up-- not in words,
you understand, for I could have heard a whisper in the still dawn, the way we were snaking it
over the trail. From that time on, every foot of the way, the old man drove the boy. You ask me how,
and I can't tell you. There wasn't a word, not a motion that I could see, but all the time it
was one man driving the other as plain as could be. And it wasn't easy. I felt that young Henry
was worse than balky, that he would have broke through the bushes and run off screaming if that old
man had taken his eyes off of him for ten seconds." A quarter of
a mile it was, and we went slow-- twenty feet forward picking our way,
then the eight of us would stop to listen.

If you ever get a chance,
ask young Henry how long that trail was. If he don't stop to think,
he'll tell you we crawled through the bushes for five miles, but if
he remembers his part as the hero of the fight, he'll say,'Oh, we sneaked
a hundred yards or so before lighting into Queen's bunch.'"The trail from
above ended in a briar tangle fifty feet up the hill from the ledge on
which four of the five outlaws slept.

 It was probably the evanescent character of what was called
its "art-colour" which ended the career of an estimable material, and if the manufacturers
had known how to eliminate its faults and adapt its virtues, it might still have been a flourishing
textile.

In truth, we do not often stop to analyse the reasons of prolonged popular favour; yet nothing
is more certain than that there is reason, and good reason, for fidelity in public taste. Popular
liking, if continued, is always founded upon certain incontrovertible virtues. If a manufacture
cannot hold its own for ever in public favour, it is because it fails in some important particular
to be what it should be. Products of the loom must have lasting virtues if they would secure
lasting esteem. Blue denim had its hold upon public use principally for the reason that it
possessed a colour superior to all the chances and accidents of its varied life. It is true
it was a colour which commended itself to general liking, yet if as stanch and steadfast a
green or red could be imparted to an equally cheap and durable fabric, it would find as lasting
a place in public favour.

It is quite possible that in the near future domestic weavings may come to the aid of the critical
house-furnisher, so that the qualities of strength and pliability may be united with colour
which is both water-fast and sun-fast, and that we shall be able to order not only the kind
of material, but the exact shade of colour necessary to the perfection of our houses.

To be washable as well as durable is also a great point in favour of cotton textiles. The English
chintzes with which the high post bedsteads of our foremothers were hung had a yearly baptism
of family soap-suds, and came from it with their designs of gaily-crested, almost life-size
pheasants, sitting upon inadequate branches, very little subdued by the process. Those were
not days of colour-study; and harmony, applied to things of sight instead of conduct, was not
looked for; but when we copy the beautiful old furniture of that day, we may as well demand
with it the quality of washableness and cleanableness which went with all its belongings.

It is always a wonder to the masculine, that the feminine mind has such an ineradicable love
of draperies. The man despises them, but to the woman they are the perfecting touch of the
home, hiding or disguising all the sharp angles of windows and doors, and making of them opportunities
of beauty. It is the same instinct with which she tries to cover the hard angles and facts
of daily life and make of them virtuous incitements. As long as the woman rules, house-curtains
will be a joy and delight to her. Something in their soft protection, grace of line, and possible
beauty of colour appeals to her as no other household belonging has the power to do. The long
folds of the straight hanging curtain are far more beautiful than the looped and festooned
creations which were held in vogue by some previous generations, and indeed are still dear
to the hearts of professional upholsterers. The simpler the treatment, the better the effect,
since natural rather than distorted line is more restful and enjoyable. Quality, colour, and
simple graceful lines are quite sufficient elements of value in these important adjuncts of
house furnishing and decoration.

CHAPTER XIII

FURNITURE

Although the forms and varieties of furniture are infinite, they can easily be classified first
into the two great divisions of good and bad, and after that into kinds and styles; but no
matter how good the different specimens may be, or to what style they may belong, each one
is subject again to the ruling of fitness. Detached things may be both thoroughly pleasing
and thoroughly good in themselves, but unless they are appropriate to the place where, and
purpose for which they are used, they will not be beautiful.

It is well to reiterate that the use to which a room is put must always govern its furnishing
and in a measure its colour, and that whatever we put in it must be placed there because it
is appropriate to that use, and because it is needed for completeness. His movement was the signal
for the gathering of a crowd, and, before Bob was fairly aware that he was the object of attention,
he had become the center of a curious group whose interest, if not wholly hostile, was in the
main certainly not friendly. The dictator himself confronted him with unmistakably bellicose
intentions.

"New shoes!" said Curly contemptuously, selecting the first obviously vulnerable point open to a shaft
of insult. "New shoes! Spit on'em!" He suited the action to the word, and immediately word and
act alike were imitated by two or three of his more ardent admirers.

"Stop!" said Bob. He did not know what it meant. He backed away from
his persecutors.

"Aw, stop, eh?" mocked Curly. "Who are you? What's yer name?"

"Bob McAllister."

"Bob! Bob-tail! Bob-cat!" chanted Curly, in gratuitous insult of which only bantam shamelessness
is capable. "Stop, will I? Who'll make me? You? You want to fight?"

He danced about Bob's quiet little figure, snapping his fingers in the new boy's eyes. Then, suddenly,
he swung his wiry body and swept a stinging blow in Bob's face.

A
yell of delight from the despot's own drowned a weaker chorus of protest.
Curly backed and squared, ready for some show of retaliation or resistance,
a scornful little grin on his face.

"Come on, now. Fight! Stop me!"
he cried.

But Bob did not move. Curly's blow had landed fair on the
tender little red lip, and it had cut against the teeth behind; a
tiny scarlet stream flowed down Bob's smooth little chin. In his eyes
the dizziness of the first jar gradually gave way to slow amazement.
Then the tears welled up, hot tears which overflowed the lids and
ran scalding down the cheeks, but they did not conceal or quench a
glitter which grew to a bright flame behind them. Of course this applies
to small, and not to grand houses, which are always exceptions to the purely domestic idea.

There are many reasons why one should be in sympathy with what is called the "colonial craze";
not only because colonial days are a part of our history, but because colonial furniture and
decorations were derived directly from the best period of English art. Its original designers
were masters who made standards in architectural and pictorial as well as household art. The
Adams brothers, to whom many of the best forms of the period are referable, were great architects
as well as great designers. Even so distinguished a painter as Hogarth delighted in composing
symmetrical forms for furniture, and preached persistently the beauty of curved instead of
rectangular lines. It was, in fact, a period in which superior minds expressed themselves in
material forms, when Flaxman, Wedgwood, Chippendale and many others of their day, true artists
in form, wrote their thoughts in wood, stone, and pottery, and bequeathed them to future ages.
Certainly the work of such minds in such company must outlast mere mechanical efforts. It is
interesting to note, that many of the Chippendale chairs keep in their under construction the
square and simple forms of a much earlier period, while the upper part, the back, and seats
are carved into curves and floriated designs. One cannot help wondering whether this square
solidity was simply a reminiscence or persistence of earlier forms, or a conscious return to
the most direct principles of weight-bearing constructions.

All furniture made under primitive conditions naturally depends upon perpendicular and horizontal
forms, because uninfluenced construction considers first of all the principle of strength;
but under the varied influences of the Georgian period one hardly expects fidelity to first
principles. New England carpenters and cabinet-makers who had wrought under the masters of
carpentry and cabinet-work in England brought with them not only skill to fashion, but the
very patterns and drawings from which Chippendale and Sheraton furniture had been made in England.
Our English forefathers were very fond of the St. Domingo mahogany, brought back in the ship-bottoms
of English traders, but the English workmen who made furniture in the new world, while they
adopted this foreign wood, were not slow to appreciate the wild cherry, and the different maples
and oak and nut woods which they found in America. They were woods easy to work, and apt to
take on polish and shining surface. The children! Always the children! He noticed, even now,
that she didn't say a word of wanting to come back to him; and yet, he had been such a kind,
nay, if Maud were to be believed, such a foolishly indulgent husband.

And
then, Flossy looked so different.

All these things went into colonial furniture, so beautifully cut, so carefully dowelled and
put together, so well made, that many of the things have become heirlooms in the families for
which they were constructed. I remember admiring a fine old cherry book-case in Mr. Lowell's
library at Cambridge, and being told by the poet that it had belonged to his grandfather. When
I spoke of the comparative rarity of such possessions he answered: "Oh, anyone can have his
grandfather's furniture if he will wait a hundred years!"

