When general Wolfe landed, and saw the difficulty of ascending the precipice, he said to the
same officer in a familiar strain, "I don't believe there is any possibility of getting up;
but you must do your endeavour." The narrow path that slanted up the hill from the landing
place the enemy had broken up, and rendered impassible by cross ditches, besides the intrenchment
at the top: in every other part the hill was so steep and dangerous, that the soldiers were
obliged to pull themselves up by the roots and boughs of trees growing on both sides of the path.]

[Footnote 515: Note 4 A, p. 515 The chagrin and mortification of Lally are strongly marked
in the following intercepted letter to M. de Legret, dated from the camp before Madras:--

"A good blow might be struck here: there is a ship in the road, of twenty guns, laden with
all the riches of Madras, which it is said will remain there till the 20th. The expedition
is just arrived, but M. Gerlin is not a man to attack her; for she has made him run away once
before. The Bristol, on the other hand, did but just make her appearance before St. Thomas;
and, on the vague report of thirteen ships coming from Porto-Novo, she took fright; and, after
landing the provisions with which she was laden, she would not stay long enough even to take
on board twelve of her own guns, which she had lent us for the siege.

"If I was the judge of the point of honour of the company's officers, I would break him like
glass, as well as some others of them.

"The Fidelle, or the Harlem, or even the aforesaid Bristol, with her twelve guns restored to
her, would be sufficient to make themselves masters of the English ship, if they could manage
so as to get to windward of her in the night. Maugendre and Tremillier are said to be good
men; and were they employed only to transport two hundred wounded men that we have here, their
service would be of importance.

"We remain still in the same position: the breach made these fifteen clays, all the time within
fifty toises of the wall of the place, and never holding up our heads to look at it.

"I reckon we shall, on our arrival at Pondieherry, endeavour to learn some other trade, for
this of war requires too much patience.

"Of one thousand five hundred sepoys which attended our army, I reckon near eight hundred are
employed upon the road to Pondieherry, laden with sugar, pepper, and other goods; and as for
the coulis, they are all employed for the same purpose, from the first day we came here.

"I am taking my measures from this day to set fire to the Black-town, and to blow up the powder-mills.

"You will never imagine that fifty French deserters, and one hundred Swiss, are actually stopping
the progress of two thousand men of the king and company's troops, which are still here existing,
notwithstanding the exaggerated accounts that every one makes here according to his own fancy,
of the slaughter that has been made of them; and you will be still more surprised if I tell
you, that, were it not lor the combats and four battles we sustained, and for the batteries
which failed, or, to speak more properly, which were unskilfully made, we should not have lost
fifty men, from the commencement of the siege to this day. I have written to M. de Larche,
that if he persists in not coming here, let who will raise money upon the Poleagers for me,
I will not do it; and I renounce (as I informed you a month ago I would do) meddling directly
or indirectly with any thing whatever that may have relation to your administration, whether
civil or military. For I had rather go and command the Caffrees of Madagascar than remain in
this Sodom, which it is impossible but the fire of the English must destroy sooner or later,
even though that from heaven should not. "I have the honour to be, &c. &c. (Signed) "LALLY."

"P. S.--I think it necessary to apprize you, that as M. de Soupire has refused to take upon
him the command of this army, which I have offered to him, and which he is empowered to accept,
by having received from the court a duplicate of my commission, you must of necessity, together
with the council, take it upon you. For my part, I undertake only to bring it back either to
Arcot or Sadraste. Send, therefore, your orders, or come yourselves to command it; for I shall
quit it upon my arrival there."]

[Footnote 521: Note 4 B, p. 521. That the general was not pleased with the behaviour of lord
George Sackville, may be gathered from the following compliment to the marquis of Granby, implying
a severe reflection upon his superior in command.

Orders of his serene highness prince Ferdinand of Brunswick, relative to the behaviour of the
troops under him, at the famous battle near Minden, on the first of August, 1759.

"His serene highness ordered his greatest thanks to be given to the whole army, for their bravery
and good behaviour yesterday, particularly to the English infantry, and the two battalions
of Hanoverian guards; to all the cavalry of the left wing; and to general Wan-genheim's corps,
particularly the regiment of Holstein, the Hessian cavalry, the Hanoverian regiment du corps,
and Hammerstin's; the same to all the brigades of heavy artillery. His serene highness declares
publicly, that, next to God, he attributes the glory of the day to the intrepidity and extraordinary
good behaviour of these troops, which he assures them he shall retain the strongest sense of
as long as he lives; and if ever, upon any occasion, he shall be able to serve these brave
troops, or any of them in particular, it will give him the utmost pleasure. His serene highness
orders his particular thanks to be likewise given to general Sporeken, the duke of Holstein,
lieutenant-generals Imhoff and Urf. His serene highness is extremely obliged to the count de
Buckebourg, for his extraordinary care and trouble in the management of the artillery, which
was served with great effect: likewise to the commanding officers of the several brigades of
artillery, viz. colonel Browne, lieutenant-colonel Hutte, Major Hasse, and the three English
captains, Philips, Drummond, and Foy. His serene highness thinks himself infinitely obliged
to major-generals Waldegrave and Kingsley, for their great courage, and the good order in which
they conducted their brigades. His serene highness further orders it to be declared to lieutenant-general
the marquis of Grandby, that he is persuaded that, if he had had the good fortune to have had
him at the head of the cavalry of the right wing, his presence would have greatly contributed
to make the decision of that day more complete and more brilliant. In short, his serene highness
orders that those of his suite whose behaviour he most admired be named, as the duke of Richmond,
colonel Fitzroy, captain Ligonier, colonel Watson, captain Wilson, aidecamp to major-general
Waldegrave, adjutant, generals Erstorff, Bulow, Durendolle, the counts Tobe and Malerti; his
serene highness having much reason tobe satisfied with their conduct. And his serene highness
desires and orders the generals of the army, that upon all occasions when orders are brought
to them by his aids-de-camp, that they may be obeyed punctually, and without delay."]

[Footnote 522: Note 4 C, p. 522. The following extracts of letters from the duke de Belleisle
to the mareschal de Contades, will convey some idea of the virtue, policy, and necessities
of the French ministry:--

"I am still afraid that Fischer sets out too late: it is, however, very important, and very
essential, that we should raise large contributions. I see no other resource for our most urgent
expenses, and for refitting the troops, but in the money we may draw from the enemy's country,
from whence we must likewise procure subsistence of all kinds (independently of the money),
that is to say, hay, straw, oats for the winter, bread, corn, cattle, horses, even men to recruit
our foreign troops. The war must not be prolonged; and perhaps it may be necessary, according
to the events which may happen between this time and the end of September, to make a downright
desert before the line of the quarters which it may be thought proper to keep during the winter,
in order that the enemy may be under a real impossibility of approaching us: at the same time
reserving for ourselves a bare subsistence on the route which may be the most convenient for
us to take, in the middle of winter, to beat up or seize upon the enemy's quarters. That this
object may be fulfilled, I cause the greatest assiduity to be used in preparing what is necessary
for having all your troops, without exception, well clothed, well armed, well equipped, and
well refitted, in every respect, before the end of November, with new tents; in order that,
if it should be advisable for the king's political and military affairs, you may be able to
assemble the whole or part of your army, to act offensively and with vigour, from the beginning
of January; and that you may have the satisfaction to show your enemies and all Europe, that
the French know how to act and carry on war in all seasons, when they have such a general as
you are, and a minister of the department of war that can foresee and concert matters with
the general.

"You must be sensible, sir, that what I say to you may become not only useful and honourable,
but perhaps even necessary, with respect to what you know, and of which I shall say no more
in a private letter.

"M. duc de BELLEISLE."

"After observing all the formalities due to the magistrates of Cologne, you must seize on their
great artillery by force, telling them that you do so for their own defence against the common
enemy of the empire; that you will restore them when their city has nothing further to fear,
&c. After all, you must take everything you have occasion for, and give them receipts for it.--

"You must, at any rate, consume all sorts of subsistence on the higher Lippe, Paderborn, and
Warsburg; you must destroy everything which you cannot consume, so as to make a desert of all
Westphalia, from Lipstadt and Munster, as far as the Rhine, on one hand: and on the other,
from the higher Lippe and Paderborn, as far as Cassel; that the enemy may find it quite impracticable
to direct their march to the Rhine, or the lower Roer; and this with regard to your army, and
with regard to the army under M. de Soubise, that they may not have it in their power to take
possession of Cassel, and much less to march to Marburg, or to the quarters which he will have
along the Lahn, or to those which you will occupy, from the lower part of the left side of
the Roer, and on the right side of the Rhine, as far as Dusseldorp, and at Cologne."--

"You know the necessity of consuming or destroying, as far as is possible, all the subsistence,
especially the forage betwixt the Weser and the Rhine on the one hand, and on the other betwixt
the Lippe, the bishopric of Paderborn, the Dymel, the Fulda, and the Nerra; and so to make
a desert of Westphalia and Hesse."--

"Although the prince of Waldeck appears outwardly neutral, he is very ill-disposed, and deserves
very little favour. You ought, therefore, to make no scruple of taking all you find in that
territory: but this must be done in an orderly manner, giving receipts, and observing the most
exact discipline. All the subsistence you leave in this country will fall to the enemy's share,
who will, by that means, be enabled to advance to the Lahn, and towards the quarters which
you are to occupy on the left side of the Roer. It is therefore a precaution become in a manner
indispensably necessary, to carry it all away from thence."--

"The question now is, what plan you shall think most proper for accomplishing, in the quickest
and surest manner, our great purpose: which must be to consume, carry off, or destroy, all
the forage and subsistence of the country which we cannot keep possession of."--

"The upper part of the Lippe, and the country of Paderborn, are the most plentiful; they must
therefore be eat to the very roots.".....

"You did mighty well to talk in the most absolute tone with regard to the necessaries Racroth
and Duysbourg must furnish our troops: it is necessary to speak in that tone to Germans; and
you will find your account in using the same to the regencies of the elector of Cologne, and
still more to that of the palatine.

"After using all becoming ceremony, as we have the power in our hands, we must make use of
it, and draw from the country of Bergue what shall be necessary for the subsistence of the
garrison of Dusseldorp, and of the light troops, and reserve what may be brought thither from
Alsace and the bishoprics for a case of necessity."]

[Footnote 523: Note 4 D, p. 523. The following declarations were published by count Dohna,
the Prussian general, on his entering Poland with a body of Prussian troops.

On the 15th of June.

His Prussian majesty, finding himself under a necessity to cause part of his armies to enter
the territories of the republic of Poland, in order to protect them against the threatened
invasion of the enemy; declares that,--

It must not be understood that his majesty, by this step taken, intends to make any breach
in the regard he has always had for the illustrious republic of Poland, or to lessen the good
understanding which has hitherto subsisted between them: but, on the contrary, to strengthen
the same, in expectation that the illustrious republic will on its part act with the like neighbourly
and friendly good-will as is granted to the enemy, than which nothing more is desired.

The nobility, gentry, and magistracy, in their respective districts, between the frontiers
of Prussia, so far as beyond Posen, are required to furnish all kinds of provisions, corn,
and forage necessary to support an army of 40,000 men, with the utmost despatch, with an assurance
of being paid ready money for the same. But if, contrary to expectation, any deficiency should
happen in supplying this demand, his majesty's troops will be obliged to forage, and use the
same means as those taken by the enemy for their subsistence.

In confidence, therefore, that the several jurisdictions upon the Prussian frontiers, within
the territories of Poland, will exert themselves to comply with this demand as soon as possible,
for the subsistence of the royal army of Prussia, they are assured that thereby all disorders
will be prevented, and whatever is delivered will be paid for in ready money.

On the 17th of June. It was with the greatest astonishment that the king, my most gracious
lord and master, heard that several of his own subjects had suffered themselves to be seduced
from their allegiance, so far as to enter into the service of a potentate with whom he is at
war; his majesty, therefore, makes known by these presents, that all of his subjects serving
in the enemy's armies, who shall be taken with arms in their hands, shall, agreeable to all
laws, be sentenced to be hanged without mercy, as traitors to their king and country, of which
all whom it may concern are desired to take notice, &c.

