Of these, the first in point of strength is the arc-light, which is too strong for ordinary
negatives to be enlarged not more than fourfold on ordinary bromide paper. Used with any of
the slower papers it will be found very serviceable and satisfactory. Next comes the lime-light,
which has pretty much the same advantages and disadvantages. After these come acetylene, a
gas giving an intense light of high actinic power. This is within the reach of nearly all,
as a first-class generator costs only about twelve dollars, and the uses of the gas are manifold.
The same generators and burners can be used with a projecting lantern and will be found far
more satisfactory than oil. Acetylene burners can be had in various sizes, ranging in power
from thirty to several hundred candle-power. The carbide from which the gas is generated is
not expensive and costs only a few cents each time the machine is loaded. By an adjustment
attached to the generator the gas is kept at a constant pressure, and hence the light is unusually
steady. All in all this light has many advantages. After it in strength comes the Welsbach
burner, suitable for those having gas in the house. After this comes the ordinary gas-burner,
and then oil. The reader, knowing now what will be required of his light, can take his choice.

Perhaps the simplest form of light-box is where the light is placed in one room and the enlarging
done in an adjoining one, the light being admitted through a suitable opening. This prevents
the possibility of stray light reaching the paper and is productive of no additional heat in
a room presumably already hot enough.

If this is not feasible a light-box must be constructed. As these vary so much in material
and design, and must be altered with different forms of light in use, I will merely state the
requirements. First of these is that it must be light-tight, and second, that it must have
adequate ventilation and be fire-proof. Following these in importance, there should be a simple
arrangement for looking at the light from time to time to see that it is burning properly and
some means for readily attending to it if it is not.

Having the light-box, the burners must be placed in it properly. Here the shortest way out
of the difficulty is to go to an expert. If electricity is used go to an electrical supply
house; if gas, go to a gas-fitter. As will be seen later the flame itself must be placed in
a certain relation to other portions of the apparatus, and provision must be made accordingly.

In looking over the magazines and annuals we will now and then see some new method given for
illuminating evenly the back of a negative in enlarging or reduction. The most of these the
writer has tried, but he has never found one of them which could be relied upon to give even
reasonable satisfaction. If the light is apparently evenly diffused it is too weak. If strong
enough it is not evenly diffused. Hence I will recommend nothing short of a pair of condensing
lenses, as these have been proved by experience to be satisfactory in every respect if properly
handled and cared for. The diameter of these must be slightly greater than the diagonal of
the largest negative from which enlargements are to be made. These can be bought in pairs,
mounted or unmounted, at about the following prices:

  ---------+-----------------+----------------+------------------
  Diameter | Focus           | Pair of Lenses | Per Single Lens
  Inches   | Inches          | Mounted        | Unmounted
  ---------+-----------------+----------------+------------------
    4      |  5-1/2 or 6-1/2 |   $ 4.00       |  $ 1.25
    4-1/2  |  5-1/2 or 6-1/2 |     6.00       |    1.50
    5      |  6-1/2          |     7.50       |    1.75
    6      |  8              |    12.00       |    3.00
    8      | 12              |    32.00       |    7.50
    9      | 14              |    40.00       |   10.00
  ---------+-----------------+----------------+------------------

The prices asked for condensers vary considerably in different price-lists. They can often
be had at second-hand at a decided saving of expense.

If it is desired to save the additional cost of the mounted condensing lenses, they can be
comparatively easily mounted by anyone at all familiar with tools in the following manner:

A piece of quarter-inch pine or poplar is cut to a square about an inch larger than the diameter
of the lenses. In the center of this is sawed out a circular opening the exact size of the
lens. In another board of the same dimensions is cut a circle a quarter of an inch less in
diameter. These boards are placed together with the grain running in opposite directions, to
prevent warping, and the lens kept in place by a wire bent in a circle and clamped in place
so as to hold the lens, or other similar arrangement. See Fig. 8. The other lens is mounted
in the same way. The two are mounted with their convex sides facing each other and a slight
distance apart. It is better to place between them a thin sheet of finely ground glass, as
this overcomes the bad effects of slight flaws in the lenses, which are not uncommon. The combination
is then boxed up.

Having now our light-box, condensers, negative box, camera and screen, they are next arranged
in the order shown by Fig. 9. A long table especially constructed for the purpose makes the
best base for this purpose.

In putting the apparatus together there are several points to be noticed. First, the planes
of the lenses, negative, projecting lenses and screen must all be parallel; second, the centers
of all these should be in a single straight line, and third, either the light or the condensers
should be so mounted as to easily slide backward or forward, since every time the projecting
lens is racked backward or forward it necessitates a corresponding motion of the condensers
to or from the light.

In constructing the apparatus, for use with condensers and artificial light, the same provision
should be made in the negative box for inserting a piece of colored or ground glass as was
made in the daylight apparatus. When the diameter of the condensers is but little greater than
the diagonal of the negative it will be necessary to have the latter quite close to the former,
as the cone of light from the condensers has its apex at the lens, and hence if the negative
in such a case is at a distance from the condensers the corners will receive no light. Reference
to Fig. 9 will show this plainly. For this and other reasons it is always best to have the
condensers of ample size for a given negative. In fact, before beginning to make enlargements
the worker should work with one good negative until he finds out exactly what light-intensity
is best suited to it. This will then serve as a standard for all other negatives of the same
general grade, and variations of the light can be made as required for particular negatives,
or where the extent of enlargement is materially changed for various purposes.

In using the daylight apparatus, which we will now consider, the negative is placed in the
holder opposite the center of the ground-glass, upside down and facing into the work room.
The room is darkened and lens uncapped. An image more or less blurred will appear on the screen.
If the enlarged picture is to be only slightly larger than the negative, the lens must be racked
out until its distance from the negative is but little less than its distance from the screen.
To make the enlargement greater we simply rack back the lens and move the screen further off.
There are tables which show exactly the distance which the lens must be from the negative and
screen in order to get an enlargement of a given size: The table here inserted covers the ordinary
requirements and may be of service in constructing the apparatus:

  TIMES OF ENLARGEMENT

  Total distances from the negative, in inches.

  -------------+---------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------
   Times of    |       2       |        3        |        4        |        6
   Enlargement |               |                 |                 |
  -------------+-------+-------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------
   Focus of    | To    | To    | To     | To     | To     | To     | To     | To
   Lens        | Easel | Lens  | Easel  | Lens   | Easel  | Lens   | Easel  | Lens
  -------------+-------+-------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------
    6 inches   | 27    |  9    | 32     |  8     | 37-1/2 |  7-1/2 | 49     |  7
    8   "      | 36    | 12    | 42-2/3 | 10-2/3 | 50     | 10     | 65-1/3 |  9-1/3
   10   "      | 45    | 15    | 53-1/3 | 13-1/3 | 62-1/2 | 12-1/2 | 81-2/3 | 11-2/3
   12   "      | 54    | 18    | 64     | 16     | 75     | 15     | 98     | 14
  -------------+-------+-------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------

A table for enlargements of from one to twenty-five times, with lenses varying in focal length
from three to nine inches is here given.

  ENLARGEMENTS

  From the British Journal of Photography Almanac. It is assumed that the photographer
      knows exactly what the focus of his lens is, and that he is able to
      measure accurately from its optical center. The use of the table
      will be seen from the following illustration: A photographer has a
      carte to enlarge to four times its size, and the lens he intends
      employing is one of 6 inches equivalent focus. He must therefore
      look for 4 on the upper horizontal line and for 6 in the first
      vertical column, and carry his eye to where these two join, which
      will be at 30-7-1/2. The greater of these is the distance the
      sensitive plate must be from the center of the lens; and the lesser,
      the distance of the picture to be copied.

In practice it is convenient, after having once found the focus for a given enlargement from
a given negative with the lens in use, to mark on the base of the apparatus the point to which
the lens has been extended. Then in making future enlargements of the same size, it is only
necessary to set the lens at that point and move the easel backward or forward until an approximate
focus is obtained, when the image will be of the proper size on the screen.

As an approximate guide it is sufficient to know that the nearer the lens is to the negative
the greater will be the enlargement, as may be seen in Fig. 7. If a piece of thin cardboard,
or a sheet of paper cut to the exact size of the enlargement desired, is placed upon the easel-screen,
little difficulty will be experienced in getting an enlarged image of the proper size and correctly
focused.

It is advisable to focus the enlargement with the largest aperture of the lens. If the lens,
when working at its largest aperture, covers the plate from which the enlargement is being
made, it will give proper definition over the enlargement. With a lens of the better sort,
of course, the definition will be equally good whether a large or small aperture is used; but
with a low-priced lens it is better to stop down to No. 8 (f/11.3) or No. 16 (f/16), to avoid
spherical aberration. Stopping the lens down increases the time of exposure, and enables one
to have greater control over the operation of exposing the paper, permitting time to shade
or locally increase the exposure at any portion of the image. This is sometimes useful, but
as a general thing stopping the lens down is not advisable, as interfering with one's judgment
in calculating exposures for various negatives. Having secured the image correct in size and
focus, place thumb-tacks at all four sides of the sheet of paper or card used to focus the
image. These will serve as a guide to the placing of the sensitive paper. Adjust the lens stop
as desired and cap the lens, leaving the room totally dark save for such safe light as we may
have for working. Place the bromide paper on the screen, using the thumb-tacks as a guide to
the correct position in this.

In making his first enlargements, the beginner should avail himself of the help of test-strips.
These should be about one inch wide and the length of the paper. The exposure depends on a
number of factors, among which are light, negative, focal length of lens, size of enlargement,
stops, sensitiveness of paper, developer, temperature of developer, and length of development.
The first experiment had best, therefore, be made on a purely arbitrary basis, for which we
will take ten seconds.

Pinning a test-strip on the screen, we uncap the lens and with a piece of cardboard shade two-thirds
of the strip during five seconds; move the cardboard, and give the next section five seconds
making ten for the first; then remove the cardboard entirely and give five seconds more, making
fifteen for the first, ten for the second, and five for the third. Now develop the strip. If
the fifteen seconds portion finishes development in less than one minute, and the ten takes
approximately a minute, we will know that our basis was correct. But if all three were over-exposed
or under-exposed, as shown by one minute's development, we can expose the next test-strip accordingly.

In determining the correct exposure, the method already set forth for contact exposures is
a reasonably good one. If the paper with a given exposure takes half the proper time to develop,
halve the next exposure; if double the time, or more, double it. More could be said on the
subject of exposure, and possibly to advantage; for instance, there are tables showing the
exact relation of exposure to the number of times of enlargement, but complicated calculations
in the dark-room are troublesome and a test-strip is simpler. After a while one gets the ability
to determine the approximate exposure required by looking at the enlarged image on the screen,
correcting slight errors by length of development, and greater ones by modifying the developer
by diluting or strengthening.

It should be remembered, however, that in judging exposure by reference to the screen, we must
consider the high lights, as well as the shadows. It is in the high lights that we need the
detail if we are to have soft pictures. If this detail in the high lights is plentiful and
clear we may know that our light is strong enough for a very short exposure. If it is very
faint, we will have to give a long exposure and use diluted developer to save the over-exposed
shadows. On the other hand, if the image on the screen is a flat one, we may know that our
light is too strong for the negative, and it must be modified by removing the reflector or
by interposing ground or yellow glass; and if neither of these suffice, we can simply lay the
negative aside for a dark day when the light will be very much weaker. Frequently all necessary
contrasts can be obtained by the use of the hard paper before referred to. As under-exposure
tends to increase contrasts, we should also give the minimum exposure in the case of flat negatives,
abandoning for a time our standard one-minute development. As will be seen by this time, there
are many wrinkles about using bromide paper, and it will be found that new ones appear at every
seance in the enlarging room.

But why is it that so many of our enlargements are black in the shadows and chalky in the high
lights? Why, simply because our light is too weak for our negative. We forget that if we cannot
modify our negative we must modify our light. It is this characteristic of the bromide enlargement
which has prevented the process from enjoying the popularity it deserves. We can cut our light
down and take all the time we want, or we can take as little time as we want. A hand, a finger,
a slip of paper, or anything within reach, will suffice to shade the light just as we want
it. In this connection it is well to always hold the shade nearer the lens than the easel,
as greater diffusion results and there is less danger of sharp lines. In shading a foreground
to bring up a dense sky, first make a test-strip or two, noting how long the shading is carried
on and how long the light is allowed to act on the whole. If the sky is then over- or under-printed
we can modify it in the enlargement proper.

The best arrangement for vignetting in enlarging is a piece of cardboard the size of the negative,
with an opening cut out at the proper place and about the size of the portion of the negative
to be vignetted. This is held near the lens and moved backward and forward between the latter
and the screen, the opening showing larger as we near the lens and smaller as we recede from
it. Very tasteful vignettes can be made in this way. A favorite method of the writer's is to
use a sheet of bromide paper, preferably that with rough surface, and print on it a small vignette
of a portion of a negative. These sheets being of a uniform size are then bound in book form,
and make very attractive souvenirs. Variety can be added to the collection by printing some
of the pictures through a mat fastened on the screen over the paper, when, of course, they
are bounded by straight, sharp lines.

Double printing in enlarging is not at all difficult. Assuming that test-strips have been made
determining the proper exposure for each negative, I will briefly outline the process. Taking
a landscape negative with clear sky in which we wish to print clouds, we first tack on the
screen a sheet of paper the size of our bromide, and after properly adjusting and focusing
it, trace with a pencil the outline of the skyline. We then remove the foreground negative
and, after tracing, cut out a mask conforming to the size and shape of the foreground, cutting
away the sky. We now put in the box the sky negative, and readjust our sheet of paper until
after proper focusing the desired portion of the sky occupies the portion reserved for it,
leaving the thumb-tacks as a guide when we put our bromide on the screen. Now using the sheet
of paper as a guide, place on the edges of the bromide paper two little pencil marks to show
how far we shall shade the lower portion of the paper. Our mask being the size of the foreground
negative, it is now only necessary to hold it at the proper distance from the lens to have
its edge conform to the sky-line when enlarged. But this would leave a sharp line if held exactly
at that point, so using the pencil marks on the margin as a guide, we slowly raise and lower
the mask very slightly and just sufficient to cause an agreeable blending of the sky into nothing.
The proper exposure given, we cap the lens, remove the paper and insert the foreground negative.
Now we must again adjust our sheet of plain paper until the sky line marked on it coincides
with the sky-line on the screen, leaving thumb-tacks as usual. Registry being thus secured,
we simply expose the foreground and develop the composite print.

Needless to say, our clouds must be lighted from the same general direction as the landscape.
But if in the negative they are not so lighted it can be reversed in the holder and will then
print properly. In almost all cloud printing the tendency is to give undue prominence to the
clouds by printing the sky to too deep a tone. This, besides making the blending very noticeable
at the horizon, results in unnatural effects and should be avoided.

If the sky portion of the landscape negative is thin, it might print slightly and spoil the
effect of the clouds. This can be overcome by using a weaker light in enlarging. Where this
is not desirable, a mask can be cut for the sky portion and used slightly while the foreground
is being printed. By using it a very little during the first part of the exposure the tint
will be overcome, while objects projecting above the horizon will be sufficiently printed.
It will be found easier, no doubt, to print the landscape first and sky afterwards. But this
does not result in good work. The landscape should invariably be printed after the sky portion.

Bolting silk enlargements were for a time very popular. Sometimes they were artistic. Then
every-one began making them, too often from unsuitable negatives, and they fell into disrepute.
This method of enlarging is, in fact, suitable for very few negatives and only where broad
effects of light and shade are desired. To cut up a spotty negative with a succession of lines
does not necessarily give a broad effect in the picture. But for softening down heavy masses
of shadows, and blending them harmoniously with masses of light or half light, the process
is without an equal. The bolting silk can be bought by the square yard of dealers in photographic
supplies, and should be stretched evenly over a frame made of quarter- and half-inch wood,
being tacked between the two strips. This frame can be easily adjusted to fit over the paper
on the screen. By using the side, bringing the cloth within a quarter of an inch of the paper,
the lines are more evident, which is not so objectionable for very large work. But for the
softest effects, reverse the frame and use it at half an inch from the paper. In this way we
get a soft diffusion of the lines and much greater general softness. It should never be used
nearer than a quarter of an inch, as the lines then become too evident, and hence fail in the
effect desired. The bolting silk comes in three grades, fine, medium and coarse. The medium
is the best for general work. It should not, however, be used for sizes under 8 × 10. The interposition
of the cloth requires about one-half additional exposure. Focusing, of course, must be done
without the frame in place. The bolting silk should only be used with paper which is to be
toned to some color other than black, as there is something incongruous in its use with black
tones.

Few branches of photographic work, outside of negative-making, are as fascinatingly interesting
as the making of enlarged prints on bromide paper from small negatives. Every amateur has negatives
worthy of enlargement in his collection, and the process is so simple as to be within the capacity
of the amateur who is still in his first year in photography. Its practice will stimulate his
interest and help him in all his other photographic work. Especially will it help him in picture-making,
the merits and defects of composition being a hundred fold more plainly evident in an enlargement
than in the small print from the hand-camera negative. Moreover, in its essentials, bromide
enlarging calls for no special equipment other than the ordinary hand- or view-camera, and
a dark-room or other convenient work-room from which all "white light" can be excluded on occasion.

CHAPTER VII

THE REDUCTION AND TONING OF BROMIDE PRINTS

The subsequent manipulations with bromide paper do not differ materially from those with negatives.
The support being paper of course makes some difference and the fact that while in the negative
we aim to get printing density and printing color only, in the positive we aim to please the
eye, makes another. But generally speaking, it may be said that whatever we can do with the
negative we can do with bromide paper, that is, in so far as the emulsion itself is concerned.

The first operation to be taken up is the reduction of prints which are too dark. This can
best be effected just after the prints come from the hypo. A few grains of red prussiate of
potash are dissolved in a suitable quantity of water, the latter being barely tinged, not of
a strong yellow color. If the print is too dense throughout, it can be immersed without previous
washing in this solution. Reduction should take place gradually, and this is best accomplished
with a weak reducer. If the tray be rocked gently the reduction will be quite uniform. If,
however, only a portion of the print needs reduction, this can be effected by applying the
ferricyanide solution locally with a brush or bit of absorbent cotton. Extreme care is needed
in this operation. In this way unduly deep shadows can be softened, veiled high lights brightened,
or almost any modification obtained which may be deemed desirable. When reduction is almost
completed quickly rinse the print in running water and then wash thoroughly. If the print has
been dried, it is only necessary to soak it for a few moments in a fresh fixing bath, when
the ferricyanide can be applied as before.

Latterly the toning of bromide prints has become popular. There are many methods and innumerable
formulae. Here we shall concern ourselves with the sulphide method which best fulfills the
three chief requirements, namely: (1) Certainty of results; (2) the use of few baths; (3) the
production of permanent prints. Processes which, as regards color, vigor, etc., are beyond
the control of the worker, are of very little practical use. Equally so, if the toning involves
a whole string of operations, the final outcome of which is usually--a spoilt print. And, lastly,
a process which--however satisfactory it may be in other respects--impairs the undoubted permanency
of a black-developed print is not one worthy of adoption. In one or two other respects, processes
vary chiefly as regards the depth or intensity which the print must have in order to produce
the most satisfactory result when toned. Thus, prints to be toned with uranium require to be
distinctly on the pale side, whilst those for sulphide toning are best a little vigorous. One
or two other methods, on the other hand, require the use of the costly gold or platinum salts.
The latter, except under exceptional circumstances, are far better employed in the legitimate
form of platinotype or other platinum paper; bromide prints toned with platinum will probably
cost more, and will never have the absolute permanence peculiar to the platinum print.

Placed in rough order of merit, the processes available are: Sulphide toning (hypo-alum toning
is a cheaper, slower, and not quite so effective form of this method, whilst the thio processes
represent sulphide toning at its best); copper toning; toning by re-development. These methods
differ, not only in the results which they give, but also as regards the perfection with which
each attains its particular effect; on the principle of the lady in the play who spoke the
"absolute truth under the circumstances," each may claim to be included among the really serviceable
processes.

