This letter duly reached the young Squire, and did not add to his happiness at the Moonbeam.
That he should ever renew his offer to Polly Neefit was, he well knew, out of the question;
but he could see before him an infinity of trouble should the breeches-maker be foolish enough
to press him to do so. He had acted "on the square." In compliance with the bargain undoubtedly
made by him, he had twice proposed to Polly, and had Polly accepted his offer on either of
these occasions, there would,--he now acknowledged to himself,--have been very great difficulty
in escaping from the difficulty. Polly had thought fit to refuse him, and of course he was
free. But, nevertheless, there might be trouble in store for him. He had hardly begun to ask
himself in what way this trouble might next show itself, when Neefit was at the Moonbeam. Three
days after the receipt of his letter, when he rode into the Moonbeam yard on his return from
hunting, there was Mr. Neefit waiting to receive him.

He certainly had not answered Mr. Neefit's letter, having told himself that he might best do
so by a personal visit in Conduit Street; but now that Neefit was there, the personal intercourse
did not seem to him to be so easy. He greeted the breeches-maker very warmly, while Pepper,
Cox, and Mr. Horsball, with sundry grooms and helpers, stood by and admired. Something of Mr.
Neefit's money, and of Polly's charms as connected with the young Squire, had already reached
the Moonbeam by the tongue of Rumour; and now Mr. Neefit had been waiting for the last four
hours in the little parlour within the Moonbeam bar. He had eaten his mutton chop, and drunk
three or four glasses of gin and water, but had said nothing of his mission. Mrs. Horsball,
however, had already whispered her suspicions to her husband's sister, a young lady of forty,
who dispensed rum, gin, and brandy, with very long ringlets and very small glasses.

"You want to have a few words with me, old fellow," said Ralph to the breeches-maker, with
a cheery laugh. It was a happy idea that of making them all around conceive that Neefit had
come after his money. Only it was not successful. Men are not dunned so rigorously when they
have just fallen into their fortunes. Neefit, hardly speaking above his breath, with that owlish,
stolid look, which was always common to him except when he was measuring a man for a pair of
breeches, acknowledged that he did. "Come along, old fellow," said Ralph, taking him by the
arm. "But what'll you take to drink first?" Neefit shook his head, and accompanied Ralph into
the house. Ralph had a private sitting-room of his own, so that there was no difficulty on
that score. "What's all this about?" he said, standing with his back to the fire, and still
holding Neefit by the arm. He did it very well, but he did not as yet know the depth of Neefit's
obstinacy.

"What's it all about?" asked Neefit in disgust.

"Well; yes. Have you talked to Polly herself about this, old fellow?"

"No, I ain't; and I don't mean."

"Twice I went to her, and twice she refused me. Come, Neefit, be reasonable. A man can't be
running after a girl all his life, when she won't have anything to say to him. I did all that
a man could do; and upon my honour I was very fond of her. But, God bless my soul,--there must
be an end to everything."

"There ain't to be no end to this, Mr. Newton."

"I'm to marry the girl whether she will or not?"

"Nohow," said Mr. Neefit, oracularly. "But when a young gentleman asks a young lady as whether
she'll have him, she's not a-going to jump down his throat. You knows that, Mr. Newton. And
as for money, did I ask for any settlement? I'd a' been ashamed to mention money. When are
you a-coming to see our Polly, that's the question?"

"I shall come no more, Mr. Neefit."

"You won't?"

"Certainly not, Mr. Neefit. I've been twice rejected."

"And that's the kind of man you are; is it? You're one of them sort, are you?" Then he looked
out of his saucer eyes upon the young Squire with a fishy ferocity, which was very unpleasant.
It was quite evident that he meant war. "If that's your game, Mr. Newton, I'll be even with you."

"Mr. Neefit, I'll pay you anything that you say I owe you."

"Damn your money!" said the breeches-maker, walking out of the room. When he got down into
the bar he told them all there that young Newton was engaged to his daughter, and that, by
G----, he should marry her.

"Stick to that, Neefit," said Lieutenant Cox.

"I mean to stick to it," said Mr. Neefit. He then ordered another glass of gin and water, and
was driven back to the station.

CHAPTER XXXVII.

"HE MUST MARRY HER."

On the day following that on which Mr. Neefit made his journey to the Moonbeam, Sir Thomas
Underwood was at his chambers in London. It was now eight weeks since his bone had been broken,
and though he still carried his arm in a sling, he declared of himself that he was able to
go about as usual;--which assertion was taken at the villa as meaning that he was now able
to live in Southampton Buildings without further assistance from women. When Patience reminded
him, with tears in her eyes, that he could not as yet put on his own coat, he reminded her
that Stemm was the most careful of men. Up to London he went with a full understanding that
he was not at any rate to be expected home on that night. He had business on hand of great
importance, which, as he declared, made his presence in town imperative. Mr. Trigger, from
Percycross, was to be up with reference to the pestilent petition which had been presented
against the return of Griffenbottom and himself. Moggs had petitioned on his own behalf, and
two of the Liberals of the borough had also petitioned in the interest of Mr. Westmacott. The
two Liberal parties who had quarrelled during the contest had now again joined forces in reference
to the petition, and there was no doubt that the matter would go on before the judge. Mr. Trigger
was coming up to London with reference to the defence. Sir Thomas gave Stemm to understand
that Mr. Trigger would call at one o'clock.

Exactly at one o'clock the bell was rung at Sir Thomas's outside door, and Stemm was on the
alert to give entrance to Mr. Trigger. When the door was opened who should present himself
but our unfortunate friend Neefit. He humbly asked whether Sir Thomas was within, and received
a reply which, as coming from Stemm, was courteous in the extreme. "Mr. Trigger, I suppose;--walk
in, Mr. Trigger." Neefit, not at all understanding why he was called Trigger, did walk in.
Stemm, opening the door of his master's sanctum, announced Mr. Trigger. Neefit advanced into
the middle of the room. Sir Thomas, with some solicitude as to the adjustment of his arm, rose
to greet his agent from Percy cross. "This isn't Mr. Trigger," said Sir Thomas. "He told me
he was, anyhow," said Stemm, "I didn't tell you nothing of the kind," said Neefit. "But you
come from Percycross?" said Sir Thomas. "No I don't; I comes from Conduit Street," said Neefit.
"You must go away," said Stemm, leaving the door open, and advancing into the room as though
to turn the enemy's flank.

