Diggory, who had slunk out of sight, was pushed forward by two of the soldiers, and at the
same time there was a loud scream from Deborah. "Oh!  Diggory, is it you?  Oh! my Lady, my
Lady, forgive me!  I meant no harm!  Oh! who would have thought it?"  And in an agony of distress,
she threw her apron over her face, and, sinking on the bench, rocked herself to and fro, sobbing
violently.

In the meantime, the officer and his men, all but the sentinel, had left the room to search
for the fugitive, leaving Lady Woodley sitting exhausted and terrified in her chair, the little
ones clinging around her, Walter standing opposite, with his hands bound; Rose stood by him,
her arm round his neck, proud of his firmness, but in dreadful terror for him, and in such
suspense for Edmund, that her whole being seemed absorbed in agonised prayer.  Deborah's sobs,
and the children's frightened weeping, were all the sounds that could be heard; Rose was obliged
to attempt to soothe them, but her first kind word to Deborah produced a fresh burst of violent
weeping, and then a loud lamentation:  "Oh! the rogue--the rogue.  If I could have dreamt it!"

"What has she done?" exclaimed Walter, impatiently.  "Come, stop your crying.  What have you
done, Deb?"

"I thought--Oh! if I had known what was in the villain!" continued Deborah, "I'd sooner have
bit out my tongue than have said one word to him about the pigeon pie."

"Pigeon pie!" repeated Rose.

Lucy now gave a cry, for she was, with all her faults, a truth- telling child.  "Mother! mother!
I told Deb about the pigeon pie! Oh, what have I done?  Was it for Edmund?  Is Edmund here?"

And to increase the danger and perplexity, the other two children exclaimed together, "Is Edmund
here?"

"Hush, hush, my dears, be quiet; I cannot answer you now," whispered Lady Woodley, trying to
silence them by caresses, and looking with terror at the rigid, stern guard, who, instead of
remaining at the door where he had been posted, had come close up to them, and sat himself
down at the end of the table, as if to catch every word they uttered.

Eleanor and Charles obeyed their mother's command that they should be silent; Rose took Lucy
on her lap, let her rest her head on her shoulder, and whispered to her that she should hear
and tell all another time, but she must be quiet now, and listen.  Deborah kept her apron over
her face, and Walter, leaning his shoulder against the wall, stood gazing at them all; and
while he was intently watching for every sound that could enable him to judge whether the search
was successful or not, at the same time his heart was beating and his head swimming at the
threat of the rebel.  Was he to die?  To be taken away from that bright world, from sunshine,
youth, and health, from his mother, and all of them, and be laid, a stiff mangled corpse, in
some cold, dark, unregarded grave; his pulses, that beat so fast, all still and silent--senseless,
motionless, like the birds he had killed?  And that was not all:  that other world!  To enter
on what would last for ever and ever and ever, on a state which he had never dwelt on or realised
to himself, filled him with a blank, shuddering awe; and next came a worse, a sickening thought:
if his feeling for the bliss of heaven was almost distaste, could he be fit for it? could he
dare to hope for it?  It was his Judge Whom he was about to meet, and he had been impatient
and weary of Bible and Catechism, and Dr. Bathurst's teaching; he had been inattentive and
careless at his prayers; he had been disobedient and unruly, violent, and unkind!  Such a horror
and agony came over the poor boy, so exceeding a dread of death, that he was ready at that
moment to struggle to do anything to save himself; but there came the recollection that the
price of his rescue must be the betrayal of Edmund.