Shad roe should be carefully taken from the fish, allowed to stand in cold water, to which
a pinch of salt has been added, for a few minutes, then dropped in boiling water, cooked a
short time and drained. Dredge with flour and fry slowly in a couple tablespoonfuls of butter
and lard or drippings until a golden brown. Be particular not to serve them rare. Serve garnished
with parsley.

Or the shad roe may be parboiled, then broken in small pieces, mixed with a couple of lightly
beaten eggs and scrambled in a fry-pan, containing a couple of tablespoonfuls of butter and
sweet drippings. Serve at once. Garnish with parsley or water cress.

SCALLOPED OYSTERS

Take about 50 fresh oysters. Place a layer of oysters in a baking dish alternately with fine,
dried crumbs, well seasoned with pepper and salt and bits of butter, until pan is about two-thirds
full. Have a thick layer of bread crumbs for the top, dotted with bits of butter. Pour over
this half a cup or less of strained oyster liquor and small cup of sweet milk. Place in oven
and bake from 40 to 50 minutes.

DEVILED OYSTERS

2 dozen oysters. 1 cup rich milk. 3 tablespoonfuls flour. Yolks of 2 raw eggs. 1 generous tablespoonful
butter. 1 tablespoonful finely-minced parsley.

Drain oysters in a colander and chop rather coarsely.

Mix flour smooth with a little cold milk. Place the remainder of the milk in a saucepan on
the range. When it commences to boil add the moistened flour and cook until the mixture thickens,
stirring constantly to prevent burning, or cook in a double boiler. Add yolks of eggs and butter,
1/2 teaspoonful salt and 1/4 teaspoonful of black pepper and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Then
add chopped oysters, stir all together a few minutes until oysters are heated through. Then
turn into a bowl and stand aside in a cool place until a short time before they are to be served.
(These may be prepared early in the morning and served at six o'clock dinner.) Then fill good-sized,
well-scrubbed oyster shells with the mixture, sprinkle the tops liberally with fine-dried,
well-seasoned bread crumbs. (Seasoned with salt and pepper.) Place the filled shells on muffin
tins to prevent their tipping over; stand in a hot oven about ten minutes, until browned on
top, when they should be heated through. Serve at once in the shells. Handle the hot shells
with a folded napkin when serving at table. This quantity fills thirteen oyster shells. Serve
with the oysters small pickles, pickled cabbage or cranberry sauce as an accompaniment.

PLANKED SHAD

After eating planked shad no one will wish to have it served in any other manner, as no other
method of preparing fish equals this. For planked shad, use an oak plank, at least two inches
thick, three inches thick is better. Planks for this purpose may be bought at a department
store or procured at a planing mill. Place plank in oven several days before using to season
it. Always heat the plank in oven about 15 minutes before placing fish on it, then have plank
very hot. Split a nicely-cleaned shad down the back, place skin side down, on hot plank, brush
with butter and sprinkle lightly with pepper and salt. Put plank containing shad on the upper
grating of a hot oven of coal range and bake about 45 minutes. Baste frequently with melted
butter. The shad should be served on the plank, although not a very sightly object, but it
is the proper way to serve it. The flavor of shad, or, in fact, of any other fish, prepared
in this manner is superior to that of any other. Fish is less greasy and more wholesome than
when fried. Should an oak plank not be obtainable, the shad may be placed in a large roasting
pan and baked in oven. Cut gashes across the fish about two inches apart, and place a teaspoonful
of butter on each. Bake in oven from 50 to 60 minutes. Serve on a warmed platter, garnished
with parsley, and have dinner plates warmed when serving fish on them. Do not wash the plank
with soap and water after using, but instead rub it over with sandpaper.

BROILED MACKEREL

When fish has been cleaned, cut off head and scrape dark skin from inside. Soak salt mackerel
in cold water over night, skin side up, always. In the morning; drain, wipe dry and place on
a greased broiler, turn until cooked on both sides. Take up carefully on a hot platter, pour
over a large tablespoonful of melted butter and a little pepper, or lay the mackerel in a pan,
put bits of butter on top, and set in a hot oven and bake. Garnish with parsley.

CODFISH BALLS

Soak codfish several hours in cold water. Cook slowly or simmer a short time. Remove from fire,
drain, and when cold squeeze out all moisture by placing the flaked fish in a small piece of
cheese-cloth. To one cup of the flaked codfish add an equal quantity of warm mashed potatoes,
yolk of 1 egg, 1 tablespoonful of milk and a little pepper. Roll into small balls with a little
flour. Dip in white of egg and bread crumbs, and when quite cold fry in deep fat. Garnish with
parsley.

FRIED OYSTERS

Procure fine, large, fresh oysters for frying. Drain in a colander carefully, look over, and
discard any pieces of shell. Roll each oyster in fine, dried bread crumbs, well seasoned with
salt and pepper, then dip them in a lightly-beaten egg, and then in bread crumbs. Allow them
to stand several hours in a cool place before frying. Place a few oysters at one time in a
wire frying basket, and immerse in smoking hot fat. Should too great a number of oysters be
placed in the fat at one time it would lower the temperature of the fat and cause the oysters
to become greasy. Drain the oysters when fried on heavy, brown paper, to absorb any remaining
fat, and serve at once.

For all deep frying use two-thirds lard and one-third suet, as suet is considered to be more
wholesome and cheaper than lard. Two items to be considered by the frugal housewife.

If fat for deep frying is the right temperature a crust is at once formed, and the oysters
do not absorb as great a quantity of fat as when fried in only enough butter and drippings
to prevent scorching, as they must then be fried more slowly. Serve pickled cabbage and tomato
catsup when serving fried oysters.

PANNED OYSTERS

Aunt Sarah always prepared oysters in this manner to serve roast turkey. At the very last minute,
when the dinner was ready to be served, she placed 50 freshly-opened oysters, with their liquor,
in a stew-pan over a hot fire. The minute they were heated through and commenced to curl up,
she turned them in a hot colander to drain a minute, then turned the oysters into a stew-pan
containing two large tablespoonfuls of hot, melted butter, and allowed them to remain in the
hot butter one minute, shaking the pan lo prevent scorching, seasoned them with salt and pepper,
and turned all into a heated dish and sent to the table at once. These are easily prepared
and are more wholesome than fried oysters.

OYSTERS STEAMED IN THE SHELL

Place well-scrubbed shells, containing fresh oysters, in a deep agate pan, which will fit in
a kettle containing a small amount of boiling water. Cover very closely until the shells open
easily. These may be served in the shell with hot, melted butter, in a side dish, or they may
be removed from the shell to a hot bowl and seasoned with hot butter, salt and pepper.

A RECIPE GIVEN MARY FOR "OYSTER COCKTAIL"

To 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup add 1/2 tablespoonful of grated horseradish, 1/2 tablespoonful
of lemon juice, 1/2 teaspoonful of tabasco sause, 1/2 tablespoonful of vinegar, 1 saltspoonful
of salt. Stand on ice one hour at least.

To serve--The freshly-opened oysters on half shell were placed on a plate, in the centre of
which was placed a tiny glass goblet containing a small quantity of the mixture, into which
the oysters were dipped before being eaten.

OYSTER CROQUETTES

Boil 50 oysters five minutes, drain. When cold, cut into small pieces, add 1/2 cup of bread
crumbs and mix all together with a thick cream sauce composed of 1/2 cup of cream or milk thickened
with flour, to which add 1 large tablespoonful of butter; season with salt, a dash of red pepper
and 1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley. Stand this mixture on ice until quite cold and
firm enough to form into small croquettes. Dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in deep fat
until a golden brown.

Serve at once on a platter garnished with sprigs of parsley From these ingredients was made
12 croquettes.

FRAU SCHMIDTS WAY OF SERVING "OYSTER COCKTAILS"

Place in a bowl 2 tablespoonfuls of tomato catsup, 1 teaspoonful of grated horseradish, 2 tablespoonfuls
of very finely cut celery juice and pulp of 2 lemons. Season with salt and pepper. Mix this
with oysters which have been cut in small pieces. Serve in halves of lemons, from which the
pulp has been carefully removed.

Place on ice a short time before serving. Crisp crackers should be served at the same time
this is served.

SALMON LOAF

One can of salmon, from which all bones have been removed, 1 cup of cracker crumbs, 1/2 cup
of milk, 1 tablespoonful of butter, which had been melted; 2 eggs beaten, salt and pepper to
season. Mix all together, bake in a buttered pudding dish one-half hour or until browned on
top. Serve hot.

CREAMED SALMON

A half cup of canned salmon, a left-over from lunch the preceding day, may be added to double
the quantity of cream dressing, and when heated through and served on crisply-toasted slices
of stale bread, make a tasty addition to any meal.

Of course, it is not necessary to tell even unexperienced housewives never under any circumstances
allow food to stand in tins in which it was canned; do not ever stand food away in tin; use
small agateware dishes, in which food, such as small quantities of left-overs, etc, may be
reheated. Never use for cooking agate stew-pans, from the inside of which small parties have
been chipped, as food cooked in such a vessel might become mixed with small particles of glazing,
and such food when eaten would injure the stomach.

OYSTER CANAPES

1 cup cream. 4 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. 1 tablespoonful of butter. 3 dozen stewing oysters.

Season with paprika, tiny pinch of nutmeg and salt. Boil the cream, add bread crumbs and butter.
Chop oysters fine, add seasoning. Serve hot in pattie cups or on toast. Serve small pickles
or olives. Good dish for chafing dish.

MEAT

Every young housewife should be taught that simmering is more effective than violent boiling,
which converts water into useless steam. Even a tough, undesirable piece of "chuck" or "pot
roast" may be made more tender and palatable by long-continued simmering than it would be if
put in rapidly boiling water and kept boiling at that rate. Meat may be made more tender also
by being marinated; that is, allowing the meat to stand for some time in a mixture of olive
oil and vinegar before cooking it. In stewing most meats a good plan is to put a large tablespoonful
of finely-minced beef suet in the stew-pan; when fried out, add a little butter, and when sizzling
hot add the meat, turn and sear on both sides to retain the juice in the meat, then add a little
hot water and let come to a boil; then stand where the meat will just simmer but not slop cooking
for several hours. The meat then should be found quite tender. Cheaper cuts of meat, especially,
require long, slow cooking or simmering to make them tender, but are equally as nutritious
as high-priced meats if properly prepared.

To quote from The Farmers' Bulletin: "The number of appetizing dishes which a good cook can
make out of the meat 'left over' is almost endless. Undoubtedly more time and skill are required
in their preparation than in the simple cooking of the more expensive cuts. The real superiority
of a good cook lies not so much in the preparation of expensive or fancy dishes as in the attractive
preparation of inexpensive dishes for every day. In the skillful combination of flavors. Some
housewives seem to have a prejudice against economizing. If the comfort of the family does
not suffer and the meals are kept as varied and appetizing as when they cost more, with little
reason for complaint, surely it is not beneath the dignity of any family to avoid useless expenditure,
no matter how generous its income. And the intelligent housekeeper should take pride in setting
a good table."

This is such an excellent article, and so ably written and true, that I feel it would be to
the advantage of every young housewife to read and profit by it.

"SAUERGEBRATENS" OR GERMAN POT ROAST

Buy about three pounds of beef, as for an ordinary pot roast. Place in a large bowl. Boil vinegar
(or, if vinegar is too sharp, add a little water, a couple of whole cloves and a little allspice);
this should cover the piece of meat. Vinegar should be poured over it hot; let stand a couple
of days in a cool place uncovered; turn it over occasionally. When wanted to cook, take from
the vinegar and put in a stew-pan containing a little hot fried-out suet or drippings in which
has been sliced 2 onions. Let cook, turn occasionally, and when a rich brown, stir in a large
tablespoonful of flour, add 1-1/2 cups of hot water, cover and cook slowly for two or three
hours, turning frequently. Half an hour before serving add small pared potatoes, and when they
have cooked tender, serve meat, gravy and potatoes on a large platter.

The writer knew an old gentleman who had moved to the city from a "Bucks County farm" when
a boy, who said that he'd walk five miles any day for a dish of the above as his mother had
prepared it in former years.

Mary was surprised at the amount of valuable information to be obtained from the different
Farmers' Bulletins received at the farm, on all subjects of interest to housewives, and particularly
farmers' wives. All books were to be had free for the asking.

The dishes Mary prepared from recipes in the Farmers Bulletin on "economical use of meat in
the home," were especially liked at the farm, particularly "Stewed Shin of Beef" and "Hungarian
Goulash" (a Hungarian dish which has come to be a favorite in the United States).

HUNGARIAN GOULASH

2 pounds top round of beef. 1 onion. A little flour. 2 bay leaves. 2 ounces salt pork. 6 whole
cloves. 2 cups of tomatoes. 6 peppercorns. 1 stalk celery.

BROILED STEAK

When buying beefsteak for broiling, order the steak cut 1 inch to 1-1/4 inches thick. Place
the steak on a well-greased, hot broiler and broil over a clear, hot fire, turning frequently.
It will take about ten minutes to broil a steak 1-inch thick. When steak is broiled place on
a hot platter, season with butter, pepper and salt, and serve at once. Serve rare or otherwise,
but serve at once. Broil-steak unseasoned, as salt extracts juice from meat. Steak, particularly,
loses its savoriness if not served hot. What to a hungry man is more nutritious and appetizing
than a perfectly broiled, rare, juicy, steak, served hot? And not a few young and inexperienced
cooks serve thin steaks, frequently overdone or scorched, containing about the same amount
of nourishment a piece of leather would possess, through lack of knowledge of knowing just
how. Often, unconsciously. I will admit; yet it is an undiluted fact, that very many young
housewives are indirectly the cause of their husbands suffering from the prevailing "American
complaint," dyspepsia, and its attendant evils. And who that has suffered from it will blame
the "grouchy man" who cannot well be otherwise. So, my dear "Mrs. New Wife," be warned in time,
and always remember how near to your husband's heart lies his stomach, and to possess the former
you should endeavor to keep the latter in good condition by preparing, and serving, nourishing,
well-cooked food.

HAMBURG STEAK

Take the tough ends of two sirloin steaks and one tablespoonful of kidney suet, run through
a food chopper; season with pepper and salt, form into small cakes, dredge lightly with flour,
fry quickly, same manner steak is fried, turning frequently. The kidney fat added prevents
the Hamburg steak being dry and tasteless. "A tender, juicy broiled steak, flaky baked potatoes,
a good cup of coffee and sweet, light, home-made bread, a simple salad or fruit, served to
a hungry husband would often prevent his looking for an affinity," said Aunt Sarah to her niece
Mary.

MEAT STEW WITH DUMPLINGS

STEW.

DUMPLINGS.

2 cups of flour. Place in a buttered steamer over a kettle of hot water and cook from 12 to
15 minutes.

This recipe tells of such an economical way of extending the meat flavor that I think every
young housewife should know it. Mary copied it from The Farmers' Bulletin, an article on the
"Economical Use of Meat in the Home." The dumplings, as she prepared them from this recipe,
were regular fluff balls, they were so light and flaky. I would add, the cook-pot should be
closely covered while cooking or steaming these dumplings, and the cover should not be raised
for the first ten minutes.

A lesser quantity of baking powder might be used with equally good results, but these dumplings
are certain to be light and flaky. A larger quantity of baking powder should be used when dough
is steamed or boiled than if dough is baked, if one expects good results.

The measurements given in the above recipes call for a level spoonful or a level cup, as the
case may be.

The foregoing information may be useful to other young, prospective housekeepers who may never
have read "the very instructive articles on The Economical Use of Meat in the Home,' in the
Farmers' Bulletin."

PREPARING A POT ROAST

When buying a pot roast, "Aunt Sarah" selected a thick, chunky piece of meat, weighing several
pounds, and a small piece of beef suet which she cut into small bits, placed pan containing
them on hot range, added a small, sliced onion, and when fat was quite hot she added the quickly
rinsed piece of meat, and quickly seared it to retain the juice; added 1 cup of hot water,
a sprig of parsley, seasoning of salt and pepper; cooked a short time, then allowed it to stand
on the range closely covered, where it would simmer gently several hours; turning the meat
frequently, adding a small amount of water occasionally, as the broth was absorbed by the meat.
An inexperienced cook will be surprised to find how tender, palatable, and equally nutritious,
an inexpensive cut of meat may become by slow simmering. When the pot roast has become tender,
remove from the broth and place on a hot platter; this latter is a small item, but dishes may
be quickly heated in a hot oven and meat and vegetables are more appetizing if served hot on
warmed plates. "Forgive this digression; I fear the pot roast will cool even on a warmed platter."
After removing the meat from the pan add a large tablespoonful of flour, moistened with a small
quantity of cold water, to the broth in the pan for gravy; cook until thickened, strain sliced
onion and parsley from the broth, add seasoning of salt and pepper, serve on the platter with
the meat; the onion added, gives the gravy a fine flavor and causes it to be a dark, rich brown
in color.

STUFFED BREAST OF VEAL

Rub the piece of meat with salt, pepper, ginger and minced onion. Prepare a stuffing as for
chicken of crumbled, stale bread, etc., or soak pieces of stale bread in cold water. Squeeze
dry and season with a little minced onion, parsley, a little melted butter, salt and pepper,
and moisten all with one egg. Fill the breast of veal with this stuffing, sew together, place
in roasting pan with a small quantity of water, to which a tablespoonful of butter has been
added. Roast in a moderately hot oven until well done, basting frequently.

"GEDAMPFTES RINDERBRUST"

Take breast of beef or veal, without fat or bones, quickly rinse off meat and wipe with a cloth.
Place in a stew-pot with one chopped onion, one sliced tomato, a bay leaf, season with pepper
and salt, add a small quantity of hot water, cook, closely covered, several hours. To be tender
this meat requires long, slow cooking, when it cooks and browns at the same time. Strain the
broth and thicken for gravy and pour around the meat on platter when serving.

"PAPRIKASH"

Two pounds of veal, from leg, cut into small pieces for stewing; 4 good-sized onions, cut rather
fine; measure about 1/2 cup of sweet lard, place onions in pan with some of this lard and fry
a light brown. Add meat and cook meat and onions together about one-half hour, adding lard
gradually until all is used and the meat is golden brown. Then cover with water and stew, closely
covered, about two hours or longer, until meat is ready to serve; then add more water until
meat is covered. Season with salt and paprika. Add about three tablespoonfuls of vinegar (not
too sour; cook must judge this by tasting); then add 1/2 pint of sweet cream. Thicken gravy
with flour mixed smooth with a little water. Place on platter surrounded with gravy. With this
was always served baked or steamed sweet potatoes.

BEEF STEW

Three pounds of the cheaper cut of beef, cut in pieces a couple inches square; brown in a stew-pan,
with a sliced onion, a sprig of parsley and a coupe tablespoonfuls of sweet drippings or suet;
cook a few minutes, add a little water, and simmer a couple of hours; add sliced turnips and
a few medium-sized potatoes. Should there he a larger quantity of broth than required to serve
with the meat and vegetables, a cup or more of the broth may form the basis of a palatable
soup for lunch the following day.

SAVORY BEEF ROLL

Three and one-half pounds raw beef, or a mixture of beef and veal may be used, run through
a food chopper. A cheap cut of meat may be used if, before chopping, all pieces of gristle
are trimmed off. Place the chopped meat in a bowl, add 8 tablespoonfuls of fine, dried bread
crumbs, 1 tablespoonful of pepper, 1-1/2 tablespoonfuls of salt. Taste the meat before adding
all the seasoning specified, as tastes differ. Add 3 raw eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk
or cream, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter, a little sweet marjoram or minced parsley. Mix all together
and mold into two long, narrow rolls, similar to loaves of bread. Place 1 tablespoonful each
of drippings and butter in a large fry-pan on the range. When heated, place beef rolls in,
and when seared on both sides add a small quantity of hot water. Place the pan containing meat
in a hot oven and bake one hour. Basting the meat frequently improves it. When catering to
a small family serve one of the rolls hot for dinner; serve gravy, made by thickening broth
in pan with a small quantity of flour. Serve the remaining roll cold, thinly sliced for lunch,
the day following.

VEAL CUTLETS

Use either veal chops or veal cutlets, cut in small pieces the size of chops; pound with a
small mallet, sprinkle a little finely-minced onion on each cutlet, dip in beaten egg and bread
crumbs, well seasoned with salt and pepper. Place a couple tablespoonfuls of a mixture of butter
and sweet drippings in a fry-pan; when hot, lay in the breaded cutlets and fry slowly, turning
frequently and watching carefully that they do not scorch. These take a longer time to fry
than does beefsteak. When a rich brown and well cooked take up the cutlets on a heated platter
and serve, garnished with parsley.

MEAT "SNITZEL"

Cut 1-1/2 pounds of thick veal steak into small pieces, dredge with flour, season with salt
and pepper, and fry brown in a pan containing bacon fat (fat obtained by frying several slices
of fat, smoked bacon). Remove the meat from the pan, add a couple tablespoonfuls of flour to
the remaining fat stir until browned, then pour in the strained liquor from a pint can of tomatoes.
Add one slice of onion and one carrot, then return the meat to the sauce; cover closely and
simmer three-quarters of an hour. When the meat is tender, place on a hot platter, add a pinch
of red pepper to the sauce and a little more salt if required, and strain over the meat on
the platter. This was a favorite dish of Mary's Uncle, and he said she knew how to prepare
it to perfection.

SIRLOIN STEAKS

Procure 2 sirloin steaks, 1-1/2 inches thick, and a small piece of suet. Cut the tenderloin
from each steak, and as much more of the steak as required for one meal. Place the finely-cut
suet in a hot fry-pan; this should measure 1 tablespoonful when tried out, add one teaspoonful
of butter, when the fat is very hot and a blue smoke arises place pieces of steak, lightly
dredged with flour, in the pan of hot fat, place only one piece at a time in the fat; sear
the meat on one side, then turn and sear on the other side; then place the other pieces of
meat in the pan and continue in the same manner, turning the steak frequently. The hot butter
and suet sear the steak, thus the juice of the meat is retained, making the meat more palatable;
season with salt and pepper, place on a hot platter and serve at once.

MEAT BALLS

Chop meat fine; beef, chicken, lamb or veal; mince a small onion and fry in a tablespoonful
of butler; add a tablespoonful of flour, the yolk of one egg, the chopped meat and a little
broth, gravy, or milk to moisten, salt and pepper. Stir all together and turn the whole mixture
into dish to cool. When cool, shape with well-floured hands into balls the size of a shelled
walnut. Dip in beaten white of egg, then into bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat until crisp
and brown. Place only three or four meat balls in a frying basket at one time. Too many at
a time chills the fat; but if plunged in boiling hot fat, then a crust is formed at once over
the outside, which prevents the grease from penetrating. When the meat balls are browned nicely,
lay them on brown paper to absorb any grease that may adhere to them. To try whether the fat
is the right temperature, drop a small piece of bread in it, and if it browns while you count
twenty, the fat is hot enough for any form of croquettes. Garnish with parsley or watercress.

VEAL LOAF

Three pounds raw veal, chopped fine; 1 teaspoonful salt, 1 teaspoonful pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls
butter, 2 raw eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls water. Mix all together with 6 tablespoonfuls fine, rolled,
dried bread crumbs and mold into a long, narrow loaf. Roll the loaf in two extra tablespoonfuls
of bread crumbs. Place in a hot pan, pour 3 tablespoonfuls melted butter over the top, and
bake in hot oven two hours or less, basting frequently. Slice thinly when cold. Should the
veal loaf be served hot thicken the broth with flour and serve this gravy with it.

SWEETBREADS (BREADED)

Place sweetbreads in cold water, to which 1/2 teaspoonful salt has been added, for a short
time, then drain and put over the fire with hot water. Cook ten minutes. Drain and stand aside
in a cool place until wanted. Remove stringy parts, separate into small pieces about the sue
of an oyster, dip in beaten white of egg and then in bread crumbs. Put in a pan containing
a little hot butter and drippings and fry light brown. Serve hot. Garnish platter with parsley.

FRIED LIVER AND BACON

Have beef liver cut in slices about one inch thick; quickly rinse and wipe dry. Remove the
thin skin on the edge and cut out all the small, tough fibres. If liver from a young beef it
can scarcely be told from calves' liver when cooked, and is considerably cheaper. Fry a dozen
slices of fat bacon in a pan until crisp and brown. Take from the pan on a warm platter and
place in oven. Put the pieces of liver, well dredged with flour, into the pan containing the
hot bacon fat, also a little butter, and fry slowly until well done, but not hard and dry.
Turn frequently and season with salt and pepper. Take the liver from the pan, add one tablespoonful
of flour to the fat remaining in the pan, stir until smooth and brown, then add about one cup
of sweet milk or water, stir a few minutes until it thickens and season with salt and pepper.
Should the liver be a little overdone, put it in the pan with the gravy, cover and let stand
where it will just simmer a few minutes, then turn all on a hot platter and serve the bacon
on a separate dish.

BEEFSTEAK SERVED WITH PEAS

Fry quickly a large sirloin steak. Place in the oven, on a warm platter. Add a large tablespoonful
of butter to the fry pan, also a can of sifted peas, which have been heated and drained, season
with pepper and salt, shake pan to prevent burning and when hot turn on to platter containing
steak and serve at once. This makes an appetizing luncheon dish.

CREAMED "DRIED BEEF"

Put a tablespoonful of butter in a frying pan, add 1/2 cup of chipped beef cut fine and brown
it in the butter, then add 1/4 cup of water. Let stand and simmer for a short time, then add
a cup of sweet milk, thicken to the consistency of thick cream by adding 1 tablespoonful of
flour mixed smooth with a small quantity of cold milk, season with salt and pepper. This is
an economical way of using small pieces of dried beef not sightly enough to be served on the
table. Serve with baked potatoes for lunch, or pour over slices of toasted bread, or over poached
eggs for an appetizing breakfast dish.

CREAMED SWEETBREADS

Parboil sweetbreads in water 10 minutes. Remove stringy parts and dry on a napkin. Separate
the sweetbreads into small pieces with a silver knife, never use steel, put in a stewpan with
enough cream to cover, add butter, pepper and salt to taste. Flour enough to thicken a little,
let all come to a boil. Fill small pattie shells with the mixture and serve hot.

MEAT CROQUETTES

2 cups finely chopped meat (beef or veal). 1 tablespoonful butter. 2 tablespoonfuls flour (or
a little more flour). 2 tablespoonfuls chopped parsley. 1 scant cup of milk.

Put milk on to boil. Mix flour smooth with a little cold milk before adding to boiling milk,
add the butter and cook all together until a creamy consistency, then add the chopped meat
well seasoned with salt and pepper and the chopped parsley. Mix well and let cool. Shape into
croquettes, dip in white of egg and bread crumbs. Let stand until perfectly cold, then fry
brown, in deep hot fat.

Chicken, beef, veal and mutton may be prepared in the same manner. When dipping croquettes,
1 tablespoonful of water may be added to the white of egg and 2 tablespoonfuls of water if
the whole of the egg is used. Use the whites of eggs for dipping croquettes if possible. Croquettes
may be made the day before wanted, and placed in a refrigerator or cool place. Croquettes should
be cold before frying.

STEWED RABBIT

After the rabbit has been skinned, and carefully cleaned, wash quickly and let stand over night
in cold water to which salt has been added; also a pinch of red pepper. Place on the range
in the morning (in a stew-pan with fresh warm water). When it comes to a boil, drain off, add
one pint of hot water containing two sliced onions and a little ginger. This prevents the flavor
of wild game, objectionable to some. When the meat has cooked tender, drain, dust pieces with
flour, and brown quickly in a pan containing a couple tablespoonfuls of hot lard, butter, or
drippings.

If you wish the meat of the rabbit white, add a thin slice of lemon to the water when cooking meat.

ROAST LAMB

Select leg or loin, or if a larger roast is wanted, leg and loin together. Carefully rinse
the piece of meat. Place in pan, dust lightly with pepper. Have the oven hot and place pan
in without putting water in pan. Brown on one side, then turn and brown on the other. Then
put about 1/2 cup of water in roasting pan, and if oven is too hot, leave door open for a few
minutes. Allow 25 minutes for each pound of lamb.

"GEFULLTE RINDERBRUST," OR STUFFED BREAST OF BEEF

Take a fillet of beef, rub both sides well with a mixture of finely chopped onion, minced parsley,
salt and pepper. Then spread over the fillet a small quantity of raw, chopped, well-seasoned
meat, roll together and tie. Place in a stew pan with a small quantity of water, cook closely
covered until tender. Serve with gravy.

FRIED PEPPERS WITH PORK CHOPS

Dust four or five pork chops with flour and fry in a pan, not too quickly. When nicely browned,
remove to a warm chop plate and stand in warming oven while preparing the following: Slice
or cut in small pieces four good-sized, sweet, red peppers and a half teaspoon of finely chopped
hot pepper, add to the fat remaining in the pan in which the chops were fried, and cook about
ten minutes, until peppers are tender (stirring them frequently). When sufficiently cooked,
add one tablespoon of vinegar, pepper and salt to taste, cook one minute longer and serve on
the same dish with the chops.

BOILED HAM

When preparing to cook a ham, scrape, wash and trim it carefully. Place ham in a large cook
pot or boiler, partly cover with cold water, let come to a boil, then move back on range where
the water will merely simmer, just bubble gently around the edge of the boiler. A medium sized
ham should be tender in five or six hours. When a fork stuck into the ham comes out readily,
the ham is cooked. Take from the boiler and skin carefully, removing all the discolored portions
of the smoked end, stick 2 dozen whole cloves into the thick fat, and sprinkle a couple tablespoonfuls
of brown sugar and fine bread crumbs over top. Place in a very hot oven a short time, until
the fat turns a golden brown. Watch carefully to see that it does not scorch. When cold, slice
thin and serve. Aunt Sarah frequently added a pint of cider to the water in which the ham was
boiled. She said this improved the flavor of the ham.

SLICED HAM

When about to fry a slice of uncooked ham, do young housewives know how very much it improves
the flavor of the ham if it is allowed to stand for ten or fifteen minutes in a platter containing
a large teaspoonful of sugar and a little cold water? Turn several times, then wipe quite dry
with a clean cloth and fry in a pan containing a little hot drippings and a very little butter
(one-half teaspoonful) just enough to prevent its sticking to the pan. Do not fry as quickly
as beefsteak. After a slice of ham has been cut from a whole ham, if lard be spread over the
end of ham from which the slice has been cut, it will prevent the cut place from becoming mouldy.

ROAST PORK

Place pork roast in a covered roasting pan containing a small cup of hot water, season with
pepper and salt and sweet marjoram and sprinkle a little powdered sage over it, and stand in
a very hot oven. After the meat has been roasting for a half hour, have less heat in your oven,
allow about 25 minutes to every pound of pork, or longer if necessary, but be sure it is well
done. When served, underdone pork is very unwholesome and unappetizing. When meat is sufficiently
roasted, pour off all the fat in the pan except a small quantity, to which add 1/2 cup of boiling
water, pepper and salt and serve. Serve baked apples or apple sauce with pork.

PORK CHOPS

