It is your human environment that makes climate.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

Sept. 15--Night.  Close to Australia now.  Sydney 50 miles distant.

That note recalls an experience.  The passengers were sent for, to come up in the bow and see
a fine sight.  It was very dark.  One could not follow with the eye the surface of the sea
more than fifty yards in any direction it dimmed away and became lost to sight at about that
distance from us.  But if you patiently gazed into the darkness a little while, there was a
sure reward for you.  Presently, a quarter of a mile away you would see a blinding splash or
explosion of light on the water--a flash so sudden and so astonishingly brilliant that it would
make you catch your breath; then that blotch of light would instantly extend itself and take
the corkscrew shape and imposing length of the fabled sea-serpent, with every curve of its
body and the "break" spreading away from its head, and the wake following behind its tail clothed
in a fierce splendor of living fire.  And my, but it was coming at a lightning gait!  Almost
before you could think, this monster of light, fifty feet long, would go flaming and storming
by, and suddenly disappear.  And out in the distance whence he came you would see another flash;
and another and another and another, and see them turn into sea-serpents on the instant; and
once sixteen flashed up at the same time and came tearing towards us, a swarm of wiggling curves,
a moving conflagration, a vision of bewildering beauty, a spectacle of fire and energy whose
equal the most of those people will not see again until after they are dead.

It was porpoises--porpoises aglow with phosphorescent light.  They presently collected in a
wild and magnificent jumble under the bows, and there they played for an hour, leaping and
frollicking and carrying on, turning summersaults in front of the stem or across it and never
getting hit, never making a miscalculation, though the stem missed them only about an inch,
as a rule.  They were porpoises of the ordinary length --eight or ten feet--but every twist
of their bodies sent a long procession of united and glowing curves astern.  That fiery jumble
was an enchanting thing to look at, and we stayed out the performance; one cannot have such
a show as that twice in a lifetime.  The porpoise is the kitten of the sea; he never has a
serious thought, he cares for nothing but fun and play.  But I think I never saw him at his
winsomest until that night. It was near a center of civilization, and he could have been drinking.

By and by, when we had approached to somewhere within thirty miles of Sydney Heads the great
electric light that is posted on one of those lofty ramparts began to show, and in time the
little spark grew to a great sun and pierced the firmament of darkness with a far-reaching
sword of light.

Sydney Harbor is shut in behind a precipice that extends some miles like a wall, and exhibits
no break to the ignorant stranger.  It has a break in the middle, but it makes so little show
that even Captain Cook sailed by it without seeing it.  Near by that break is a false break
which resembles it, and which used to make trouble for the mariner at night, in the early days
before the place was lighted.  It caused the memorable disaster to the Duncan Dunbar, one of
the most pathetic tragedies in the history of that pitiless ruffian, the sea.  The ship was
a sailing vessel; a fine and favorite passenger packet, commanded by a popular captain of high
reputation.