Frank's only refuge in these hard times was his mother's love.  That never failed him, for
the very incapacity that so excited the wrath of his father only drew him more closely to Mrs
Darvell, and made her watchful to shield him, if possible, from harsh treatment.  She was always
ready to do battle for him, and her strong big husband quailed before the small determined
mother when she had her boy's cause in hand. For Mrs Darvell was gifted with a range of expression
and a freedom of speech which had been denied to her "man," and he had learned to dread the
times when the missus was put out, as occasions when he stood defenceless before that deadly
weapon--the tongue.  He was dreading it now, although he sat so quietly smoking in the chimney-corner.
The air had that vaguely uneasy feeling in it that precedes a storm.  Presently there would
be the first clap of thunder.  The clock struck nine.  No Frank.  An unheard-of hour for any
of the Green Highland folk to be out of their beds and awake.  Mr Darvell rose, stretched himself,
glanced nervously at his wife, and suggested humbly:

"Shall us go to bed?"

"You may," she replied, "but I don't stir till I see the lad.  If so be," she added, "you can
go to sleep with an easy mind while the lad's still out, you'd better do it."

Her husband scratched his head thoughtfully, but made no answer; then Mrs Darvell rose and
stood in front of him, shaking a menacing finger.

"Frank Darvell," she said slowly and solemnly, "you've bin leatherin' that lad.  Don't deny
it, for I know it."

Mr Darvell did not attempt to deny it.  He only shuffled his feet a little.

"An now," continued his wife with increasing vehemence, "you've druv him at last to run away;
don't deny it."

"He ain't run away," muttered Mr Darvell.  "He ain't got pluck enough to do that.  He's a coward,
that's what he is."

"Coward!" cried his wife, now fairly roused, and standing in an aggressive attitude.  "It's
you that are the coward, you great, hulking, stupid lout, to strike a weak boy half yer size.
An' to talk of goin' to bed, an' him wandering out there in the woods.  My poor little gentle lad!"

She sank down on the settle and wrung her hands helplessly, but started up again the next minute
with a sudden energy which seemed to petrify her husband.

"Put on your boots," she said, pointing to them; and as Mr Darvell meekly obeyed she went on
speaking quietly and rapidly.  "Wake up Jack Gunn and send him down to Danecross.  Tell him
to ask at the rectory and at schoolmaster's if they've seen the lad.  Take your lantern and
go into the woods.  There's gypsies camping out Hampden way; go there, and tell 'em to look
out for him.  Don't you dare to come back without the lad.  I'll stop here, and burn a light
and keep his supper ready.  Poor little lad, he'll be starved with hunger!"

But the night waned, and no tidings came of Frank.  Jack Gunn came back from Danecross having
learned nothing, and the poor mother's fears increased.  The boy must be wandering in those
weary woods, afraid to come home--or perhaps lost.  Such a thing had been known before now;
and as the first streaks of light appeared in the sky, and she saw the dim figure of her husband
returning alone, Mrs Darvell's courage quite forsook her.

"I shall never see him no more," she said to herself, and cried bitterly.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

And where was "our Frank" meanwhile?

