Then the duelists took position again; a small stream of blood was flowing down the side of
the injured man's head, and over his shoulder and down his body to the floor, but he did not
seem to mind this. The word was given, and they plunged at each other as fiercely as before;
once more the blows rained and rattled and flashed; every few moments the quick-eyed seconds
would notice that a sword was bent--then they called "Halt!" struck up the contending weapons,
and an assisting student straightened the bent one.

The wonderful turmoil went on--presently a bright spark sprung from a blade, and that blade
broken in several pieces, sent one of its fragments flying to the ceiling. A new sword was
provided and the fight proceeded. The exercise was tremendous, of course, and in time the fighters
began to show great fatigue. They were allowed to rest a moment, every little while; they got
other rests by wounding each other, for then they could sit down while the doctor applied the
lint and bandages. The law is that the battle must continue fifteen minutes if the men can
hold out; and as the pauses do not count, this duel was protracted to twenty or thirty minutes,
I judged. At last it was decided that the men were too much wearied to do battle longer. They
were led away drenched with crimson from head to foot. That was a good fight, but it could
not count, partly because it did not last the lawful fifteen minutes (of actual fighting),
and partly because neither man was disabled by his wound. It was a drawn battle, and corps
law requires that drawn battles shall be refought as soon as the adversaries are well of their
hurts.

During the conflict, I had talked a little, now and then, with a young gentleman of the White
Cap Corps, and he had mentioned that he was to fight next--and had also pointed out his challenger,
a young gentleman who was leaning against the opposite wall smoking a cigarette and restfully
observing the duel then in progress.

My acquaintanceship with a party to the coming contest had the effect of giving me a kind of
personal interest in it; I naturally wished he might win, and it was the reverse of pleasant
to learn that he probably would not, because, although he was a notable swordsman, the challenger
was held to be his superior.

The duel presently began and in the same furious way which had marked the previous one. I stood
close by, but could not tell which blows told and which did not, they fell and vanished so
like flashes of light. They all seemed to tell; the swords always bent over the opponents'
heads, from the forehead back over the crown, and seemed to touch, all the way; but it was
not so--a protecting blade, invisible to me, was always interposed between. At the end of ten
seconds each man had struck twelve or fifteen blows, and warded off twelve or fifteen, and
no harm done; then a sword became disabled, and a short rest followed whilst a new one was
brought. Early in the next round the White Corps student got an ugly wound on the side of his
head and gave his opponent one like it. In the third round the latter received another bad
wound in the head, and the former had his under-lip divided. After that, the White Corps student
gave many severe wounds, but got none of the consequence in return. At the end of five minutes
from the beginning of the duel the surgeon stopped it; the challenging party had suffered such
injuries that any addition to them might be dangerous. These injuries were a fearful spectacle,
but are better left undescribed. So, against expectation, my acquaintance was the victor.

CHAPTER VI

[A Sport that Sometimes Kills]

The third duel was brief and bloody. The surgeon stopped it when he saw that one of the men
had received such bad wounds that he could not fight longer without endangering his life.

The fourth duel was a tremendous encounter; but at the end of five or six minutes the surgeon
interfered once more: another man so severely hurt as to render it unsafe to add to his harms.
I watched this engagement as I watched the others--with rapt interest and strong excitement,
and with a shrink and a shudder for every blow that laid open a cheek or a forehead; and a
conscious paling of my face when I occasionally saw a wound of a yet more shocking nature inflicted.
My eyes were upon the loser of this duel when he got his last and vanquishing wound--it was
in his face and it carried away his--but no matter, I must not enter into details. I had but
a glance, and then turned quickly, but I would not have been looking at all if I had known
what was coming. No, that is probably not true; one thinks he would not look if he knew what
was coming, but the interest and the excitement are so powerful that they would doubtless conquer
all other feelings; and so, under the fierce exhilaration of the clashing steel, he would yield
and look after all. Sometimes spectators of these duels faint--and it does seem a very reasonable
thing to do, too.

Both parties to this fourth duel were badly hurt so much that the surgeon was at work upon
them nearly or quite an hour--a fact which is suggestive. But this waiting interval was not
wasted in idleness by the assembled students. It was past noon, therefore they ordered their
landlord, downstairs, to send up hot beefsteaks, chickens, and such things, and these they
ate, sitting comfortable at the several tables, whilst they chatted, disputed and laughed.
The door to the surgeon's room stood open, meantime, but the cutting, sewing, splicing, and
bandaging going on in there in plain view did not seem to disturb anyone's appetite. I went
in and saw the surgeon labor awhile, but could not enjoy; it was much less trying to see the
wounds given and received than to see them mended; the stir and turmoil, and the music of the
steel, were wanting here--one's nerves were wrung by this grisly spectacle, whilst the duel's
compensating pleasurable thrill was lacking.

Finally the doctor finished, and the men who were to fight the closing battle of the day came
forth. A good many dinners were not completed, yet, but no matter, they could be eaten cold,
after the battle; therefore everybody crowded forth to see. This was not a love duel, but a
"satisfaction" affair. These two students had quarreled, and were here to settle it. They did
not belong to any of the corps, but they were furnished with weapons and armor, and permitted
to fight here by the five corps as a courtesy. Evidently these two young men were unfamiliar
with the dueling ceremonies, though they were not unfamiliar with the sword. When they were
placed in position they thought it was time to begin--and then did begin, too, and with a most
impetuous energy, without waiting for anybody to give the word. This vastly amused the spectators,
and even broke down their studied and courtly gravity and surprised them into laughter. Of
course the seconds struck up the swords and started the duel over again. At the word, the deluge
of blows began, but before long the surgeon once more interfered--for the only reason which
ever permits him to interfere--and the day's war was over. It was now two in the afternoon,
and I had been present since half past nine in the morning. The field of battle was indeed
a red one by this time; but some sawdust soon righted that. There had been one duel before
I arrived. In it one of the men received many injuries, while the other one escaped without
a scratch.

I had seen the heads and faces of ten youths gashed in every direction by the keen two-edged
blades, and yet had not seen a victim wince, nor heard a moan, or detected any fleeting expression
which confessed the sharp pain the hurts were inflicting. This was good fortitude, indeed.
Such endurance is to be expected in savages and prize-fighters, for they are born and educated
to it; but to find it in such perfection in these gently bred and kindly natured young fellows
is matter for surprise. It was not merely under the excitement of the sword-play that this
fortitude was shown; it was shown in the surgeon's room where an uninspiring quiet reigned,
and where there was no audience. The doctor's manipulations brought out neither grimaces nor
moans. And in the fights it was observable that these lads hacked and slashed with the same
tremendous spirit, after they were covered with streaming wounds, which they had shown in the
beginning.

The world in general looks upon the college duels as very farcical affairs: true, but considering
that the college duel is fought by boys; that the swords are real swords; and that the head
and face are exposed, it seems to me that it is a farce which had quite a grave side to it.
People laugh at it mainly because they think the student is so covered up with armor that he
cannot be hurt. But it is not so; his eyes and ears are protected, but the rest of his face
and head are bare. He can not only be badly wounded, but his life is in danger; and he would
sometimes lose it but for the interference of the surgeon. It is not intended that his life
shall be endangered. Fatal accidents are possible, however. For instance, the student's sword
may break, and the end of it fly up behind his antagonist's ear and cut an artery which could
not be reached if the sword remained whole. This has happened, sometimes, and death has resulted
on the spot. Formerly the student's armpits were not protected--and at that time the swords
were pointed, whereas they are blunt, now; so an artery in the armpit was sometimes cut, and
death followed. Then in the days of sharp-pointed swords, a spectator was an occasional victim--the
end of a broken sword flew five or ten feet and buried itself in his neck or his heart, and
death ensued instantly. The student duels in Germany occasion two or three deaths every year,
now, but this arises only from the carelessness of the wounded men; they eat or drink imprudently,
or commit excesses in the way of overexertion; inflammation sets in and gets such a headway
that it cannot be arrested. Indeed, there is blood and pain and danger enough about the college
duel to entitle it to a considerable degree of respect.

All the customs, all the laws, all the details, pertaining to the student duel are quaint and
naive. The grave, precise, and courtly ceremony with which the thing is conducted, invests
it with a sort of antique charm.

This dignity and these knightly graces suggest the tournament, not the prize-fight. The laws
are as curious as they are strict. For instance, the duelist may step forward from the line
he is placed upon, if he chooses, but never back of it. If he steps back of it, or even leans
back, it is considered that he did it to avoid a blow or contrive an advantage; so he is dismissed
from his corps in disgrace. It would seem natural to step from under a descending sword unconsciously,
and against one's will and intent--yet this unconsciousness is not allowed. Again: if under
the sudden anguish of a wound the receiver of it makes a grimace, he falls some degrees in
the estimation of his fellows; his corps are ashamed of him: they call him "hare foot," which
is the German equivalent for chicken-hearted.

CHAPTER VII

[How Bismark Fought]

In addition to the corps laws, there are some corps usages which have the force of laws.

Perhaps the president of a corps notices that one of the membership who is no longer an exempt--that
is a freshman--has remained a sophomore some little time without volunteering to fight; some
day, the president, instead of calling for volunteers, will APPOINT this sophomore to measure
swords with a student of another corps; he is free to decline--everybody says so--there is
no compulsion. This is all true--but I have not heard of any student who DID decline; to decline
and still remain in the corps would make him unpleasantly conspicuous, and properly so, since
he knew, when he joined, that his main business, as a member, would be to fight. No, there
is no law against declining--except the law of custom, which is confessedly stronger than written
law, everywhere.

The ten men whose duels I had witnessed did not go away when their hurts were dressed, as I
had supposed they would, but came back, one after another, as soon as they were free of the
surgeon, and mingled with the assemblage in the dueling-room. The white-cap student who won
the second fight witnessed the remaining three, and talked with us during the intermissions.
He could not talk very well, because his opponent's sword had cut his under-lip in two, and
then the surgeon had sewed it together and overlaid it with a profusion of white plaster patches;
neither could he eat easily, still he contrived to accomplish a slow and troublesome luncheon
while the last duel was preparing. The man who was the worst hurt of all played chess while
waiting to see this engagement. A good part of his face was covered with patches and bandages,
and all the rest of his head was covered and concealed by them.

It is said that the student likes to appear on the street and in other public places in this
kind of array, and that this predilection often keeps him out when exposure to rain or sun
is a positive danger for him. Newly bandaged students are a very common spectacle in the public
gardens of Heidelberg. It is also said that the student is glad to get wounds in the face,
because the scars they leave will show so well there; and it is also said that these face wounds
are so prized that youths have even been known to pull them apart from time to time and put
red wine in them to make them heal badly and leave as ugly a scar as possible. It does not
look reasonable, but it is roundly asserted and maintained, nevertheless; I am sure of one
thing--scars are plenty enough in Germany, among the young men; and very grim ones they are,
too. They crisscross the face in angry red welts, and are permanent and ineffaceable.

Some of these scars are of a very strange and dreadful aspect; and the effect is striking when
several such accent the milder ones, which form a city map on a man's face; they suggest the
"burned district" then. We had often noticed that many of the students wore a colored silk
band or ribbon diagonally across their breasts. It transpired that this signifies that the
wearer has fought three duels in which a decision was reached--duels in which he either whipped
or was whipped--for drawn battles do not count. [1] After a student has received his ribbon,
he is "free"; he can cease from fighting, without reproach--except some one insult him; his
president cannot appoint him to fight; he can volunteer if he wants to, or remain quiescent
if he prefers to do so. Statistics show that he does NOT prefer to remain quiescent. They show
that the duel has a singular fascination about it somewhere, for these free men, so far from
resting upon the privilege of the badge, are always volunteering. A corps student told me it
was of record that Prince Bismarck fought thirty-two of these duels in a single summer term
when he was in college. So he fought twenty-nine after his badge had given him the right to
retire from the field.

1. FROM MY DIARY.--Dined in a hotel a few miles up the Neckar, in a room whose walls were hung
all over with framed portrait-groups of the Five Corps; some were recent, but many antedated
photography, and were pictured in lithography--the dates ranged back to forty or fifty years
ago. Nearly every individual wore the ribbon across his breast. In one portrait-group representing
(as each of these pictures did) an entire Corps, I took pains to count the ribbons: there were
twenty-seven members, and twenty-one of them wore that significant badge.

The statistics may be found to possess interest in several particulars. Two days in every week
are devoted to dueling. The rule is rigid that there must be three duels on each of these days;
there are generally more, but there cannot be fewer. There were six the day I was present;
sometimes there are seven or eight. It is insisted that eight duels a week--four for each of
the two days--is too low an average to draw a calculation from, but I will reckon from that
basis, preferring an understatement to an overstatement of the case. This requires about four
hundred and eighty or five hundred duelists a year--for in summer the college term is about
three and a half months, and in winter it is four months and sometimes longer. Of the seven
hundred and fifty students in the university at the time I am writing of, only eighty belonged
to the five corps, and it is only these corps that do the dueling; occasionally other students
borrow the arms and battleground of the five corps in order to settle a quarrel, but this does
not happen every dueling-day. [2] Consequently eighty youths furnish the material for some
two hundred and fifty duels a year. This average gives six fights a year to each of the eighty.
This large work could not be accomplished if the badge-holders stood upon their privilege and
ceased to volunteer.

2. They have to borrow the arms because they could not get them elsewhere or otherwise. As
I understand it, the public authorities, all over Germany, allow the five Corps to keep swords,
but DO NOT ALLOW THEM TO USE THEM. This is law is rigid; it is only the execution of it that
is lax.

Of course, where there is so much fighting, the students make it a point to keep themselves
in constant practice with the foil. One often sees them, at the tables in the Castle grounds,
using their whips or canes to illustrate some new sword trick which they have heard about;
and between the duels, on the day whose history I have been writing, the swords were not always
idle; every now and then we heard a succession of the keen hissing sounds which the sword makes
when it is being put through its paces in the air, and this informed us that a student was
practicing. Necessarily, this unceasing attention to the art develops an expert occasionally.
He becomes famous in his own university, his renown spreads to other universities. He is invited
to Goettingen, to fight with a Goettingen expert; if he is victorious, he will be invited to
other colleges, or those colleges will send their experts to him. Americans and Englishmen
often join one or another of the five corps. A year or two ago, the principal Heidelberg expert
was a big Kentuckian; he was invited to the various universities and left a wake of victory
behind him all about Germany; but at last a little student in Strasburg defeated him. There
was formerly a student in Heidelberg who had picked up somewhere and mastered a peculiar trick
of cutting up under instead of cleaving down from above. While the trick lasted he won in sixteen
successive duels in his university; but by that time observers had discovered what his charm
was, and how to break it, therefore his championship ceased.

