It was under the influence of these milder feelings which soften the horrors of warfare that
the Christian and Saracen, who had so lately done their best for each other's mutual destruction,
rode at a slow pace towards the fountain of palm-trees to which the Knight of the Couchant
Leopard had been tending, when interrupted in mid-passage by his fleet and dangerous adversary.
Each was wrapt for some time in his own reflections, and took breath after an encounter which
had threatened to be fatal to one or both; and their good horses seemed no less to enjoy the
interval of repose.

That of the Saracen, however, though he had been forced into much the more violent and extended
sphere of motion, appeared to have suffered less from fatigue than the charger of the European
knight. The sweat hung still clammy on the limbs of the latter, when those of the noble Arab
were completely dried by the interval of tranquil exercise, all saving the foam-flakes which
were still visible on his bridle and housings. The loose soil on which he trod so much augmented
the distress of the Christian's horse, heavily loaded by his own armour and the weight of his
rider, that the latter jumped from his saddle, and led his charger along the deep dust of the
loamy soil, which was burnt in the sun into a substance more impalpable than the finest sand,
and thus gave the faithful horse refreshment at the expense of his own additional toil; for,
iron-sheathed as he was, he sunk over the mailed shoes at every step which he placed on a surface
so light and unresisting.

"You are right," said the Saracen--and it was the first word that either had spoken since their
truce was concluded; "your strong horse deserves your care. But what do you in the desert with
an animal which sinks over the fetlock at every step as if he would plant each foot deep as
the root of a date-tree?"

"Thou speakest rightly, Saracen," said the Christian knight, not delighted at the tone with
which the infidel criticized his favourite steed--"rightly, according to thy knowledge and
observation. But my good horse hath ere now borne me, in mine own land, over as wide a lake
as thou seest yonder spread out behind us, yet not wet one hair above his hoof."

The Saracen looked at him with as much surprise as his manners permitted him to testify, which
was only expressed by a slight approach to a disdainful smile, that hardly curled perceptibly
the broad, thick moustache which enveloped his upper lip.

"It is justly spoken," he said, instantly composing himself to his usual serene gravity; "List
to a Frank, and hear a fable."

"Thou art not courteous, misbeliever," replied the Crusader, "to doubt the word of a dubbed
knight; and were it not that thou speakest in ignorance, and not in malice, our truce had its
ending ere it is well begun. Thinkest thou I tell thee an untruth when I say that I, one of
five hundred horsemen, armed in complete mail, have ridden--ay, and ridden for miles, upon
water as solid as the crystal, and ten times less brittle?"

"What wouldst thou tell me?" answered the Moslem. "Yonder inland sea thou dost point at is
peculiar in this, that, by the especial curse of God, it suffereth nothing to sink in its waves,
but wafts them away, and casts them on its margin; but neither the Dead Sea, nor any of the
seven oceans which environ the earth, will endure on their surface the pressure of a horse's
foot, more than the Red Sea endured to sustain the advance of Pharaoh and his host."

"You speak truth after your knowledge, Saracen," said the Christian knight; "and yet, trust
me, I fable not, according to mine. Heat, in this climate, converts the soil into something
almost as unstable as water; and in my land cold often converts the water itself into a substance
as hard as rock. Let us speak of this no longer, for the thoughts of the calm, clear, blue
refulgence of a winter's lake, glimmering to stars and moonbeam, aggravate the horrors of this
fiery desert, where, methinks, the very air which we breathe is like the vapour of a fiery
furnace seven times heated."

The Saracen looked on him with some attention, as if to discover in what sense he was to understand
words which, to him, must have appeared either to contain something of mystery or of imposition.
At length he seemed determined in what manner to receive the language of his new companion.

"You are," he said, "of a nation that loves to laugh, and you make sport with yourselves, and
with others, by telling what is impossible, and reporting what never chanced. Thou art one
of the knights of France, who hold it for glee and pastime to GAB, as they term it, of exploits
that are beyond human power. [Gaber. This French word signified a sort of sport much used among
the French chivalry, which consisted in vying with each other in making the most romantic gasconades.
The verb and the meaning are retained in Scottish.] I were wrong to challenge, for the time,
the privilege of thy speech, since boasting is more natural to thee than truth."

"I am not of their land, neither of their fashion," said the Knight, "which is, as thou well
sayest, to GAB of that which they dare not undertake--or, undertaking, cannot perfect. But
in this I have imitated their folly, brave Saracen, that in talking to thee of what thou canst
not comprehend, I have, even in speaking most simple truth, fully incurred the character of
a braggart in thy eyes; so, I pray you, let my words pass."

They had now arrived at the knot of palm-trees and the fountain which welled out from beneath
their shade in sparkling profusion.

We have spoken of a moment of truce in the midst of war; and this, a spot of beauty in the
midst of a sterile desert, was scarce less dear to the imagination. It was a scene which, perhaps,
would elsewhere have deserved little notice; but as the single speck, in a boundless horizon,
which promised the refreshment of shade and living water, these blessings, held cheap where
they are common, rendered the fountain and its neighbourhood a little paradise. Some generous
or charitable hand, ere yet the evil days of Palestine began, had walled in and arched over
the fountain, to preserve it from being absorbed in the earth, or choked by the flitting clouds
of dust with which the least breath of wind covered the desert. The arch was now broken, and
partly ruinous; but it still so far projected over and covered in the fountain that it excluded
the sun in a great measure from its waters, which, hardly touched by a straggling beam, while
all around was blazing, lay in a steady repose, alike delightful to the eye and the imagination.
Stealing from under the arch, they were first received in a marble basin, much defaced indeed,
but still cheering the eye, by showing that the place was anciently considered as a station,
that the hand of man had been there and that man's accommodation had been in some measure attended
to. The thirsty and weary traveller was reminded by these signs that others had suffered similar
difficulties, reposed in the same spot, and, doubtless, found their way in safety to a more
fertile country. Again, the scarce visible current which escaped from the basin served to nourish
the few trees which surrounded the fountain, and where it sunk into the ground and disappeared,
its refreshing presence was acknowledged by a carpet of velvet verdure.

In this delightful spot the two warriors halted, and each, after his own fashion, proceeded
to relieve his horse from saddle, bit, and rein, and permitted the animals to drink at the
basin, ere they refreshed themselves from the fountain head, which arose under the vault. They
then suffered the steeds to go loose, confident that their interest, as well as their domesticated
habits, would prevent their straying from the pure water and fresh grass.

Christian and Saracen next sat down together on the turf, and produced each the small allowance
of store which they carried for their own refreshment. Yet, ere they severally proceeded to
their scanty meal, they eyed each other with that curiosity which the close and doubtful conflict
in which they had been so lately engaged was calculated to inspire. Each was desirous to measure
the strength, and form some estimate of the character, of an adversary so formidable; and each
was compelled to acknowledge that, had he fallen in the conflict, it had been by a noble hand.

The champions formed a striking contrast to each other in person and features, and might have
formed no inaccurate representatives of their different nations. The Frank seemed a powerful
man, built after the ancient Gothic cast of form, with light brown hair, which, on the removal
of his helmet, was seen to curl thick and profusely over his head. His features had acquired,
from the hot climate, a hue much darker than those parts of his neck which were less frequently
exposed to view, or than was warranted by his full and well-opened blue eye, the colour of
his hair, and of the moustaches which thickly shaded his upper lip, while his chin was carefully
divested of beard, after the Norman fashion. His nose was Grecian and well formed; his mouth
rather large in proportion, but filled with well-set, strong, and beautifully white teeth;
his head small, and set upon the neck with much grace. His age could not exceed thirty, but
if the effects of toil and climate were allowed for, might be three or four years under that
period. His form was tall, powerful, and athletic, like that of a man whose strength might,
in later life, become unwieldy, but which was hitherto united with lightness and activity.
His hands, when he withdrew the mailed gloves, were long, fair, and well-proportioned; the
wrist-bones peculiarly large and strong; and the arms remarkably well-shaped and brawny. A
military hardihood and careless frankness of expression characterized his language and his
motions; and his voice had the tone of one more accustomed to command than to obey, and who
was in the habit of expressing his sentiments aloud and boldly, whenever he was called upon
to announce them.

The Saracen Emir formed a marked and striking contrast with the Western Crusader. His stature
was indeed above the middle size, but he was at least three inches shorter than the European,
whose size approached the gigantic. His slender limbs and long, spare hands and arms, though
well proportioned to his person, and suited to the style of his countenance, did not at first
aspect promise the display of vigour and elasticity which the Emir had lately exhibited. But
on looking more closely, his limbs, where exposed to view, seemed divested of all that was
fleshy or cumbersome; so that nothing being left but bone, brawn, and sinew, it was a frame
fitted for exertion and fatigue, far beyond that of a bulky champion, whose strength and size
are counterbalanced by weight, and who is exhausted by his own exertions. The countenance of
the Saracen naturally bore a general national resemblance to the Eastern tribe from whom he
descended, and was as unlike as possible to the exaggerated terms in which the minstrels of
the day were wont to represent the infidel champions, and the fabulous description which a
sister art still presents as the Saracen's Head upon signposts. His features were small, well-formed,
and delicate, though deeply embrowned by the Eastern sun, and terminated by a flowing and curled
black beard, which seemed trimmed with peculiar care. The nose was straight and regular, the
eyes keen, deep-set, black, and glowing, and his teeth equalled in beauty the ivory of his
deserts. The person and proportions of the Saracen, in short, stretched on the turf near to
his powerful antagonist, might have been compared to his sheeny and crescent-formed sabre,
with its narrow and light but bright and keen Damascus blade, contrasted with the long and
ponderous Gothic war-sword which was flung unbuckled on the same sod. The Emir was in the very
flower of his age, and might perhaps have been termed eminently beautiful, but for the narrowness
of his forehead and something of too much thinness and sharpness of feature, or at least what
might have seemed such in a European estimate of beauty.

The manners of the Eastern warrior were grave, graceful, and decorous; indicating, however,
in some particulars, the habitual restraint which men of warm and choleric tempers often set
as a guard upon their native impetuosity of disposition, and at the same time a sense of his
own dignity, which seemed to impose a certain formality of behaviour in him who entertained it.

This haughty feeling of superiority was perhaps equally entertained by his new European acquaintance,
but the effect was different; and the same feeling, which dictated to the Christian knight
a bold, blunt, and somewhat careless bearing, as one too conscious of his own importance to
be anxious about the opinions of others, appeared to prescribe to the Saracen a style of courtesy
more studiously and formally observant of ceremony. Both were courteous; but the courtesy of
the Christian seemed to flow rather from a good humoured sense of what was due to others; that
of the Moslem, from a high feeling of what was to be expected from himself.

The provision which each had made for his refreshment was simple, but the meal of the Saracen
was abstemious. A handful of dates and a morsel of coarse barley-bread sufficed to relieve
the hunger of the latter, whose education had habituated them to the fare of the desert, although,
since their Syrian conquests, the Arabian simplicity of life frequently gave place to the most
unbounded profusion of luxury. A few draughts from the lovely fountain by which they reposed
completed his meal. That of the Christian, though coarse, was more genial. Dried hog's flesh,
the abomination of the Moslemah, was the chief part of his repast; and his drink, derived from
a leathern bottle, contained something better than pure element. He fed with more display of
appetite, and drank with more appearance of satisfaction, than the Saracen judged it becoming
to show in the performance of a mere bodily function; and, doubtless, the secret contempt which
each entertained for the other, as the follower of a false religion, was considerably increased
by the marked difference of their diet and manners. But each had found the weight of his opponent's
arm, and the mutual respect which the bold struggle had created was sufficient to subdue other
and inferior considerations. Yet the Saracen could not help remarking the circumstances which
displeased him in the Christian's conduct and manners; and, after he had witnessed for some
time in silence the keen appetite which protracted the knight's banquet long after his own
was concluded, he thus addressed him:--

"Valiant Nazarene, is it fitting that one who can fight like a man should feed like a dog or
a wolf? Even a misbelieving Jew would shudder at the food which you seem to eat with as much
relish as if it were fruit from the trees of Paradise."

