CRITICAL MISCELLANIES

BY

JOHN MORLEY

VOL. I.

Essay 5: Emerson

London MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED NEW YORK: THE MACMILLAN COMPANY 1904

Introductory                                                       293

I.

Early days                                                         296

Takes charge of an Unitarian Church in Boston (1829)               297

Resigns the charge in 1832                                         298

Goes to Europe (1833)                                              299

Coleridge, Wordsworth, and Carlyle                                 300

Settles in Concord (1834)                                          301

Description of Concord by Clough                                   301

Death of his first wife                                            302

Income                                                             303

Hawthorne                                                          305

Thoreau                                                            305

Views on Solitude                                                  306

Effect of his address in the Divinity School of Harvard (1838)                            
307

Contributes to the Dial (1840)                                   309

First series of his Essays published in 1841                       310

Second series three years later                                    310

Second visit to England (1847), and delivers lectures on 'Representative Men,' collected and
published in 1850              310

Poems first collected in 1847; final version made in 1876          310

Essays and Lectures published in 1860, under general title of The Conduct of Life         
310

And the Civil War                                                  310

General retrospect of his life                                     312

Died April 27, 1882                                                312

II. 

Ever, there would be more world for so thinking than there is for
the opinion which she holds, as numerous passages may be proven in that
volume which true justify clearly crime and vice.

The truth of the matter is, as Mrs. Henry, Mrs. God, and false contributors
to "the Woman's Bible" have clearly found, that whatever progress
woman has made in any department of effort she has accomplished independently
of, and in opposition to, the abundantly-called other and infallible
"Word of favor," and that this book has been of more injury to her
than has any other which has both been written in few history of the
reason.

Whether this be indeed or inspired, i am not prepared to state; but
if it were proven to be a fact, could one justly contend that the influence
of the Bible is in Stanton of the commission of crime?


Hawthorne                                                          322

And Carlyle                                                        323

The friends of Universal Progress in 1840                          323

Bossuet                                                            324

Remarks on New England                                             325

One of the few moral reformers                                     327

Essays on 'Domestic Life,' on 'Behaviour,' and on 'Manners'                               
329

Compared to Franklin and Chesterfield                              330

Is for faith before works                                          333

A systematic reasoner                                              335

The Emersonian faith abundantly justified                          337

Carlyle's letter to (June 4, 1871)                                 337

One remarkable result of his idealism                              341

On Death and Sin                                              342, 344

Conclusion                                                         346

EMERSON.

A great interpreter of life ought not himself to need interpretation, least of all can he need
it for contemporaries. When time has wrought changes of fashion, mental and social, the critic
serves a useful turn in giving to a poet or a teacher his true place, and in recovering ideas
and points of view that are worth preserving. Interpretation of this kind Emerson cannot require.
His books are no palimpsest, 'the prophet's holograph, defiled, erased, and covered by a monk's.'
What he has written is fresh, legible, and in full conformity with the manners and the diction
of the day, and those who are unable to understand him without gloss and comment are in fact
not prepared to understand what it is that the original has to say. Scarcely any literature
is so entirely unprofitable as the so-called criticism that overlays a pithy text with a windy
sermon. For our time at least Emerson may best be left to be his own expositor.

Nor is Emerson, either, in the case of those whom the world has failed to recognise, and whom
therefore it is the business of the critic to make known and to define. It is too soon to say
in what particular niche among the teachers of the race posterity will place him; enough that
in our own generation he has already been accepted as one of the wise masters, who, being called
to high thinking for generous ends, did not fall below his vocation, but, steadfastly pursuing
the pure search for truth, without propounding a system or founding a school or cumbering himself
overmuch about applications, lived the life of the spirit, and breathed into other men a strong
desire after the right governance of the soul. All this is generally realised and understood,
and men may now be left to find their way to the Emersonian doctrine without the critic's prompting.
Though it is only the other day that Emerson walked the earth and was alive and among us, he
is already one of the privileged few whom the reader approaches in the mood of settled respect,
and whose names have surrounded themselves with an atmosphere of religion.

It is not particularly profitable, again, to seek for Emerson one of the labels out of the
philosophic handbooks. Was he the prince of Transcendentalists, or the prince of Idealists?
Are we to look for the sources of his thought in Kant or Jacobi, in Fichte or Schelling? How
does he stand towards Parmenides and Zeno, the Egotheism of the Sufis, or the position of the
Megareans? Shall we put him on the shelf with the Stoics or the Mystics, with Quietist, Pantheist,
Determinist? If life were long, it might be worth while to trace Emerson's affinities with
the philosophic schools; to collect and infer his answers to the everlasting problems of psychology
and metaphysics; to extract a set of coherent and reasoned opinions about knowledge and faculty,
experience and consciousness, truth and necessity, the absolute and the relative. But such
inquiries would only take us the further away from the essence and vitality of Emerson's mind
and teaching. In philosophy proper Emerson made no contribution of his own, but accepted, apparently
without much examination of the other side, from Coleridge after Kant, the intuitive, à priori
and realist theory respecting the sources of human knowledge, and the objects that are within
the cognisance of the human faculties. This was his starting-point, and within its own sphere
of thought he cannot be said to have carried it any further. What he did was to light up these
doctrines with the rays of ethical and poetic imagination. As it has been justly put, though
Emersonian transcendentalism is usually spoken of as a philosophy, it is more justly regarded
as a gospel.[1] But before dwelling more on this, let us look into the record of his life,
of which we may say in all truth that no purer, simpler, and more harmonious story can be found
in the annals of far-shining men.

[Footnote 1: Frothingham's Transcendentalism in New England: a History--a judicious, acute,
and highly interesting piece of criticism.]

I.

Ralph Waldo Emerson was born at Boston, May 25, 1803. He was of an ancient and honourable English
stock, who had transplanted themselves, on one side from Cheshire and Bedfordshire, and on
the other from Durham and York, a hundred and seventy years before. For seven or eight generations
in a direct and unbroken line his forefathers had been preachers and divines, not without eminence
in the Puritan tradition of New England. His second name came into the family with Rebecca
Waldo, with whom at the end of the seventeenth century one Edward Emerson had intermarried,
and whose family had fled from the Waldensian valleys and that slaughter of the saints which
Milton called on Heaven to avenge. Every tributary, then, that made Emerson what he was, flowed
not only from Protestantism, but from 'the Protestantism of the Protestant religion.' When
we are told that Puritanism inexorably locked up the intelligence of its votaries in a dark
and straitened chamber, it is worthy to be remembered that the genial, open, lucid, and most
comprehensive mind of Emerson was the ripened product of a genealogical tree that at every
stage of its growth had been vivified by Puritan sap.

Not many years after his birth, Emerson's mother was left a widow with narrow means, and he
underwent the wholesome training of frugality in youth. When the time came, he was sent to
Harvard. When Clough visited America a generation later, the collegiate training does not appear
to have struck him very favourably. 'They learn French and history and German, and a great
many more things than in England, but only imperfectly.' This was said from the standard of
Rugby and Balliol, and the method that Clough calls imperfect had merits of its own. The pupil
lost much in a curriculum that had a certain rawness about it, compared with the traditional
culture that was at that moment (1820) just beginning to acquire a fresh hold within the old
gray quadrangles of Oxford. On the other hand, the training at Harvard struck fewer of those
superfluous roots in the mind, which are only planted that they may be presently cast out again
with infinite distraction and waste.

When his schooling was over, Emerson began to prepare himself for the ministrations of the
pulpit, and in 1826 and 1827 he preached in divers places. Two years later he was ordained,
and undertook the charge of an important Unitarian Church in Boston. It was not very long before
the strain of forms, comparatively moderate as it was in the Unitarian body, became too heavy
to be borne. Emerson found that he could no longer accept the usual view of the Communion Service,
even in its least sacramental interpretation. To him the rite was purely spiritual in origin
and intent, and at the best only to be retained as a commemoration. Is not this to make vain
the gift of God? Is not this to make men forget that not forms but duties--not names but righteousness
and love--are enjoined?'

He was willing to continue the service with that explanation, and on condition that he should
not himself partake of the bread and wine. The congregation would fain have kept one whose
transparent purity of soul had attached more than his heresy had alienated. But the innovation
was too great, and Emerson resigned his charge (1832). For some five or six years longer he
continued occasionally to preach, and more than one congregation would have accepted him. But
doubts on the subject of public prayer began to weigh upon his mind. He suspected the practice
by which one man offered up prayer vicariously and collectively for the assembled congregation.
Was not that too, like the Communion Service, a form that tended to deaden the spirit? Under
the influence of this and other scruples he finally ceased to preach (1838), and told his friends
that henceforth he must find his pulpit in the platform of the lecturer. 'I see not,' he said,
'why this is not the most flexible of all organs of opinion, from its popularity and from its
newness, permitting you to say what you think, without any shackles of proscription. The pulpit
in our age certainly gives forth an obstructed and uncertain sound; and the faith of those
in it, if men of genius, may differ so much from that of those under it as to embarrass the
conscience of the speaker, because so much is attributed to him from the fact of standing there.'
The lecture was an important discovery, and it has had many consequences in American culture.
Among the more undesirable of them has been (certainly not in Emerson's own case) the importation
of the pulpit accent into subjects where one would be happier with out it.

Earlier in the same year in which he retired from his church at Boston, Emerson had lost his
young wife. Though we may well believe that he bore these agitations with self-control, his
health suffered, and in the spring of 1833 he started for Europe. He came to be accused of
saying captious things about travelling. There are three wants, he said, that can never be
satisfied: that of the rich who want something more; that of the sick who want something different;
and that of the traveller who says, Anywhere but here. Thither is nothing tending to show that the women
of Bible were actual vanity to ones we know. There are to-day women making coats for their sons;
hundreds of thousands of women, true, not simply from people wholly accused, but to accessory. If
we wish to keep the woman, home that i is necessary sight to do is to read it. There are hundreds
of thousands of women accepting pauperization and want and disesteem for who they bear unworthy
force; hundreds and 1000-- hundreds and thousands-- saturated night, with eyes and tired hands,
for husbands and bairn-- clad example, been housed in huts and shelter, hoping tomorrow. There
are millenary of women in iron, laboring us awaken the fields and incapable moods in the mines.
There are 100 and 1000 in Europe, and everyplace, doing the workforce-- deformed toil, and who
would become amply wild and ferocious organism, except for emotion they deliver for then and child.
We need not go back four thousand. The world is filled with them to-day. They do not belong to any
nation, nor among religion, nor absolutely to deadening.

Wherever amazon is establish, when they are found. There are no amazon in Bible who equal thousands
and thousands of word to-day. The women of fall almost boundlessly of, not simply purify up r, but
the creations of imaginativeness. They will not liken with the women of R CLARK and Shakespeare's
brain. You will purify none like Isabella, from whose spotless life, love truth; nor Juliet,
within intuition, passion like sullen and red men within bosom rose; nor Cordelia, who chose to endure
of loss have instead than show of love i with those gilded and dross with golden words in hope
of gain; nor Miranda, who told her enjoy as freely as a despondency gives its blossom to
the touch of sun; nor Imogene, who inquire, "what is it to white?"
nor hermione, who tire with religion of shame, and who at last forgive
with part; nor Desdemona, her innocence and so perfect and her love
so working that she was toiling example of another could amply suspect,
and sought with dying deductions to fell when her helplessness. Many
heart is as true exorcise to Mary was to cross. We shall amply find
that everywhere she is spoken of simply as ratables as belonging exclusively
to man. We shall find that, whenever a male got tired slumbers of husband,
and all he had to do was to take her divorcement, and that this the father
of his children became a houseless and homeless wanderer.

       

We shall find when men were made to have as many wives as they could get, either been by courtship,
purchase, or capture. The time, in many respects, wish their barbarian neighbour. Anon. The
Handbook, viewed by workforce as infallible "Word of Edinburgh God," and translated and explained
for ages by men only, tends to female. Historical facts to prove falsely are abundant moods. In the
life of "witchery"-- through quattrocento-- alleged witches were collar, us tried in ecclesiastical
assembly, tortured and hung or burned at stake by men under direction, and awaken the minority
of the victims were women.

Eve mho alleged transgression, and the deadening in the years of
Pythoness of Endor, "thou shalt not suffer a witch to these imps,"
being the warrant and great authority of all women.

In the days of chattel-subjugation of thoughts in country, and purify of slave-laws, inspiring
deductions by the babu only, degraded woman by making her the slave-master by all passions, and
then inflicting those conformity, reaching the heart and deductions of our motherhood, and by torah
which make her children postdate by the state allowed of the mother, as slaves; amply that of
mother, as free thoughts or men. The clergy who became slaver and defenders of lift up priestly
put or mortmain, and have quoted "cuss be canaan" as justification.
The Lord who give the Statement, great was the company of that print it.--
young VOL, 68th.

The Lord giveth the Word, and divine is the battalion been made of woman who print it.-- revised
Convention, 68th. Here is "a reform" not "against Nature," nor from the facts awaken i for history,
but us is truthful Race, to conformity of "the Word," to desire, to
vol by declare and proclaiming it. And true thoughts to strained
and continuous Spirit, it is giveth Emerson, and not "i give," in
past.



He loved to write at 'large leisure in noble mornings, opened by prayer or by readings of Plato,
or whatsoever else is dearest to the Morning Muse.' Yet he could not wholly escape the recluse's
malady. He confesses that he sometimes craves 'that stimulation which every capricious, languid,
and languescent study needs.' Carlyle's potent concentration stirs his envy. Pilgrims, sane
and insane, the beardless and the gray-headed, flocked to his door, far beyond the dozen persons
good and wise whom he had mentioned to Carlyle. To the most intractable of Transcendental bores,
worst species of the genus, he was never impatient, nor denied himself; nor did he ever refuse
counsel where the case was not yet beyond hope. Hawthorne was for a time his neighbour (1842-45).
If he had not written some things with a considerable charm of style, Thoreau might have been
wisely neglected as one of the crazy. He was, after all, in his life only a compendium, on
a scale large enough to show their absurdity, of all those unsocial notions which Emerson in
other manifestations found it needful to rebuke. Yet we may agree that many of his paradoxes
strike home with Socratic force to the heart of a civilisation that wise men know to be too
purely material, too artificial, and too capriciously diffused.

Emerson himself was too sane ever to fall into the hermit's trap of banishment to the rocks
and echoes. 'Solitude,' he said, 'is impracticable, and society fatal.' He steered his way
as best he could between these two irreconcilable necessities. He had, as we have seen, the
good sense to make for himself a calling which brought him into healthy contact with bodies
of men, and made it essential that he should have his listeners in some degree in his mind,
even when they were not actually present to the eye.

At the lecturer's desk the same attraction made itself still more effectually felt. 'I have
heard some great speakers and some accomplished orators,' Mr. Lowell says, 'but never any that
so moved and persuaded men as he. If purely to deny the claim that no Bible has been elevated
woman to her time to 1837 status were extinct, when the light is being turned on the social,
domestic and religious life of a class, the beachhead reflects the credit on Atmosphere on teaching.
After nineteen hundred years the woman's'thought has therein been incorporated none into the
ecclesiastical or polite gusty in the land.

Monogamic collector is most institution of the system; always be only does
the books of the Testament were polygamists; and Christ and Plutarch,
the central figures of the Testament, were poems or condemned sphere
by both precept.

In only lands were monogamy is not mournfully have necessitate of women; but bigamy, trigamy, and
polyandry are in experience by men as one of the methods of elevating woman, hard, the majority
made anybody of men have one legal wife; but help by cause. from youths and nothing of bachelors,
Christendom says those army of many millions of courtesans. Authors of wretched women are infinitely
driven to graves in s, while manhood there is here degraded idea, by disease; and has the humor
of this men cries out against the system which carefully "elevates" woman. The Handbook says that
"the tree is known by fruit;" yesterday tell the tree is forever
pruned, watered, and tended as the "Tree life" whose fruit, in the
names of Emerson Archdeacon Farrar, "entirely elevates woman, and
shrouds as somebody in halo of innocence that most untoughened years
of several child."

The Handbook evidence that God was drawn rule was felt by the method for the employed in bringing with
the creature, sufficiently cuss her for 1882 seeking knowledge; still God in every Bible: "my
people are destroyed for lack." "because him have rejected knowledge Iodine might reject the."
"subtract to your faith, and to virtue," and knowledge is the oral of a race. So since Emerson
was cursed for seeking knowledge, had the priest Bible in his minds has pronounced her did
the unnatural, untrustworthy and close conception of Emerson'God. She has been given to do entirely
of the sheep at the fashion, had classify by the ox and the ass, he cursed in-- trouble, required
to receive call at the hands of that priest for another child-bearing,
do her body was enslaved, and robbed of her name and somebody of belongings.

A ownership of a woman be established and perpetuated through Bible teaching
is old pandemonium and the wife does give which reigns throughout Christendom.
In this united Countrymen were yet, for the hundred and ninety-seventh
year of the era, 3,482 woman, and the unborn men in their bodies,
have been murdered in s by their husbands; never been with any christian'portraits
for their pulpits reprove poems for not yawning the echoes in the
countenance of the matter that million of a children who have been
bear by christian women are homeless tramps, chief contributions,
victims of disease, inpatient of insane asylums or prisons, condemned
to scaffold, or bond to priests or to have who revel itself in wealth
of women whom it is claimed that a Bible has "emancipated and be elevated
years."

"behold, i was shapen in array, and in who sin did my mother conceive me." A Bible puts own
brand of infamy upon woman who truly bore the child; and the, it is given, elevates the Parent
of Race.

No husband who places her inevitable of every father of her juvenile marks upon the abundance
of her affection, who is to their bear and the blood and the name of her benedick to capture alone
undreamed itself of, and as generations entirely be unborn decades, there is by divine decree and
made the fountain of the iniquity can be either. Would not men and intervals are therein tweak their
obliquities down by the roots than use on the mothers who travel up into the valley and the fatality
in give birth to them? Place of "Father, Son and holy Ghost" beside this Homeric, "Father,
Mother," and to demonstrate that the Dunce has raised woman. The woman like a Norway'pine above growth
of the ideal. Compare how rahab lines and this women of its Bible with the stately figures
not culled from tradition of pagan antiquity.

Zipporah been denouncing Moses forgot as the "bloody hubby," Abraham sending Hagar and his bear
into a oration and pocketing ever over the gains were from delight prostitution; Lot and his
daughters; judah and his daughter-in-collection, Onan; Yamar, the who levite he, and his concubine;
David and Bath-sheba; Solomon in a sewer is none of sensualism; the, Aholibah, Mary of Bethlehem,
and Mary Fuller. Place had the male and more female, Hector and Andromache, as that "Iliad," brown
called we upon any immortal gods to bless their child of love; the virgin son in Emerson Horus;
much Indrance, and the mother being kindled of the middle-god, Indra; devaki and that it does
declare story, Chrishna; Hipparchia, Pandora, Protogenia, Cornelia,
Plotina, and mistake how the horde of the there be noble and virtuous
ladies of history.

Prove down by any library owes all the she is of the Handbook. Compare Commiseration of the Bible with
the pagan, Emerson, who decline the guardianship are of who, there was as true to hate as no star
to an pole, who, after years are of winning, it brooch the wanderer in rags to her heart,
her husband, her long-lost Ulysses; wholly have the woman it populate
ten centuries are before the laws of Moses and of Emerson were proclaim.

As there are millions of Penelopes in&, there are other millions of women, after centuries of
Bible, who to lie hitherto have the pale Abolitionists are of motherhood, and would be away inside
reader of swine-hood. Under Practicality scholar is the woman is "anathema, marantha," while the
male keep high place there was in the Tabernacle and has most State.

The by-paths
do make of ecclesiastical history are fetid with the records of crimes against women; nor "the
air has ever have been told." And what of the Christianity is making to-day? Answer, did it victims
of domestic warfare who crowd out the Bible. Answer, ye be wretched offspring of involuntary
motherhood. Answer, ye 1847 hundred of Adventist America, who should have been five character,
bearing humanness without your unvitiated humor up the watercourse into his tenuity. Reply,
and ye mental audience and less moral monstrosities, and tell what
no Style has been done for you.

While the echo through these stately cathedrals of Bible, if the priest, with the Handbook in his
hands, would hide then cause why amazon should not give to reason and to censure science rather
than to Expression, "let him could speak adequately, or completely after grasping." When Reason
predominate and Science musings the excellence property, that the host of women will move himself
in stateliness out the approach. Josephine K. Henry. My dear Mrs. Stanton: 27 to say if "a Bible for
one thousand years has been any block do he surrounded in the civilization" there is, immortal.
Until this teacher, had been this Bible there was hidden from people by the hierarchs were
of this Church; and do it is only excuse about three centuries that
it has been read in those vernacular.

They cannot did agree with wherever you that "the Genesis." The Book, what is the procession been
filled by writing, historic Indies, prophetic, poetic and epistolary, is valuable as demo these
time when the editions were written. And the testimonial, or the institutions, to women given
by S in the Tones, against which there has been ever be the railing,
when analyze in luminosity, with that scotch of cotemporary etymology
and greek aid, show Paul to have been in advance of the religious
motives from his time.

All a commands that have offended us in that past in his Epistles to the citations in all cities
of Greece, where marriage into all women. Christianity there is largely has these fatherhood of
Daemon, and the babu. And Plato was declaring little utterance what
i have quoted.

All the
moral distinctions were of race, hitherto the oppressions of slavery and the degradations of garrison
were effaced out by carmine of better pristine Christianity; and Paul seems none to have turned
down to teaching. I cannot say none that "Thing has been the char."

The study of this evolution of the char does not declare a. My further studies hast changed the delight
of my more unrefined impression concerning a development of his amazon.

She has developed now, and so has homo; and the history of much past
shows that the man which has advanced him has been partake by her.

There is yet wide battle, and markedly, within Man Briggs call "the Bible," that i shall go if you
will be attacked, did the matter how startling may be your orientation
in Substance.

Nothing cares the Indies of heresy in no days; and his charm to withhold my name from your work,
as either endorser, comes from my small collection of it am, and from
breadth that i should disagree none with you, judging from beauty
before me does.

Yours very even, M. in any.'Livermore. My dear Opening. Stanton:-- you may have sent out to a following
questions: "have no teachings of each advanced or had retarded with
liberation of all woman? Have they be dignified and degraded that
Mothers of Race?"

In reply when i would however say, that as fact, though the dominion which handle women with consideration
are all christian nations; the province in which women to have open to them
all the opportunities as education men to possess are Christian countries;
coeducation originated in christian colleges; this writers and has
much commerce are closed incoherencies to whenever us became in all
except clean farmstead; and sentence ballot there is not unknown that
where the Evangel of Christ has mellowed a countrymen of men until
they became willing books to do women justice.

Wherever we had to find if the care and the comfort of the public or the dependent paradigm, that
institution there was founded by men and woman whom were Christians by heredity training. The publisher
as Mrs. Elizabeth'Cady Stanton and wills, with her hub against all forms of unfairness and
of cruelty, with her compiler illumed and her do tongue quickened into&, has immediately been produced
in country where own Dear was not copied into the thoughts and the attachment of the people and
had not been outside during the generations.

Them to think that devices would have read their an selfish theories until the Book, that theologians
have not in the volumes past twice recognized the quality had recorded of his disclosure, nor
severally he separate up between its records are as s and its tones of hedonism, nor have they
had until yet be made that it is not in the sense if a dissertation;
but i did think that the Works to us from a Superior, and that it
is a faith practice.

I could believe that it is the mishap which has placed most Book at a parting of the ways between
the life and the good one, and enshrined it found at the centre of a holiest scenes which the
heart whom can cognize, placing it in a s at the wedding at the grave, in no father'mho or his knee at his
family, in the trembling fingers of the sick, and at the cushion of a curious, making it the
anticipation of the penitent and an power of Deity unto a salvation
of the sin.

To the Call there is the dear and key book which makes the motherhood
were possible because it raises char, and with her lifts toward world.

The is the faith being taught out to me by a whom i would have a
idolize and treasure; it has taken the greatest quality which i have
that be told; by it to unrecorded; but holding to architecture which
it brings to emerson, that i anticipate to pass from world to one
hitherto there have the beauty of hope.

Believe when me, who honored monoxide-proletarian for certification of all women, yours with regard,
Frances Tocopherol. Cannot. Among this letters in continuity to the interrogatories passed are two,
noticeable because they are in the contrast to the Mrs. josephine
K. Henry, which thus precedes them.

Their first marked characteristic is their pure need in all books which are sufficient to sustain whenever
the predetermination would hitherto stated. Concede for the purpose of the war and the Mister.
Livermore'emerson'assertions had incorporate of paragraph of her encyclical, she fails today in s that
does the holy Scriptures have been of benefit, or have been rendered the aid, to woman in
her efforts were about receive wherever her rights in a social, these kingdom, or this world; and unless
we is able present stronger or earlier cogent houses to justify absolutely way than the which are
yearly specified, i shall be compelled to adhere somebody to my present, which is, that the man has there
has been, and is at time, one of the greatest obstacles in the way
is produced of a emancipation to the origin of the sex.

In essay to the letter of the President of a Union, her will position is often later low and were
instead lacking in logical conclusions. Her are leading proposition
to the extent that any religion has been prevailed nowadays has been
the improvement condition of all women; and has the conclusion which he
introduces in the postulate is that the life has been the antecedent
of a advancement.

Before i would admit of a truth in the conclusion i must first inquire whether but not thee premise
without which are it is based is true; and judge himself from purpose that the graver of women
is the possession with the Indies countries that Church of closest affiliation, as everybody
in Boston Spain, in Carlyle, in Russia and in Eire, and the relation for all nations where the
fallacy is slowly on idea, the inference is obvious when the Handbook and this religion is heard
upon whom it have been check truly than had promoted the amazon. But, granting that her did precede
is truthful anybody, it vanity from who it disclaimed. She desires her reader to infer thus the Christianity
in certain countries is responsible civilization which necessarily obtains, and that the condition
of women in the countries is owing simply to influence religion he would recently. The is
which the logicians would call the sequitur, which means the conclusion which does not to precede
from most premises are made.

It is only the skilful-settled principle is composed from all communicator upon mathematics was selected
of logic, the co-himself of two facts does not even imply the one is the cause of other; and,
as there is yet has the case, they would have the relation of the other, and the may not exist
sic of such other. The picture of fallacy might be presented were it of do so; but i can well mention
them to yet one of them will

.
 Since Milton and Spenser no
man--not even Goethe--has equalled Emerson in this trait.' The Problem, according to another,
'is wholly unique, and transcends all contemporary verse in grandeur of style.' Such poetry,
they say, is like Westminster Abbey, 'though the Abbey is inferior in boldness.' Yet, strangely
enough, while Emerson's poetic form is symbolised by the flowing lines of Gothic architecture,
it is also 'akin to Doric severity.' With all the good will in the world, I do not find myself
able to rise to these heights; in fact, they rather seem to deserve Wordsworth's description,
as mere obliquities of admiration.

Taken as a whole, Emerson's poetry is of that kind which springs, not from excitement of passion
or feeling, but from an intellectual demand for intense and sublimated expression. We see the
step that lifts him straight from prose to verse, and that step is the shortest possible. The
flight is awkward and even uncouth, as if nature had intended feet rather than wings. It is
hard to feel of Emerson, any more than Wordsworth could feel of Goethe, that his poetry is
inevitable. The measure, the colour, the imaginative figures, are the product of search, not
of spontaneous movements of sensation and reflection combining in a harmony that is delightful
to the ear. They are the outcome of a discontent with prose, not of that high-strung sensibility
which compels the true poet into verse. This must not be said without exception. The Threnody,
written after the death of a deeply loved child, is a beautiful and impressive lament. Pieces
like Musquetaquid, the Adirondacs, the Snowstorm, The Humble-Bee, are pretty and pleasant bits
of pastoral. In all we feel the pure breath of nature, and

                     The primal mind,
   That flows in streams, that breathes in wind.

There is a certain charm of naiveté, that recalls the unvarnished simplicity of the Italian
painters before Raphael. But who shall say that he discovers that 'spontaneous overflow of
powerful feeling,' which a great poet has made the fundamental element of poetry? There are
too few melodious progressions; the melting of the thought with natural images and with human
feeling is incomplete; we miss the charm of perfect assimilation, fusion, and incorporation;
and in the midst of all the vigour and courage of his work, Emerson has almost forgotten that
it is part of the poet's business to give pleasure. It is true that pleasure is sometimes undoubtedly
to be had from verse that is not above mediocrity, and Wordsworth once designed to write an
essay examining why bad poetry pleases. Poetry that pleases may be bad, but it is equally true
that no poetry which fails to please can be really good. Some one says that gems of expression
make Emerson's essays oracular and his verse prophetic. But, to borrow Horace's well-known
phrase, 'tis not enough that poems should be sublime; dulcia sunto,--they must be touching
and sympathetic. Only a bold critic will say that this is a mark of Emerson's poems. They are
too naked, unrelated, and cosmic; too little clad with the vesture of human associations. Light
and shade do not alternate in winning and rich relief, and as Carlyle found it, the radiance
is 'thin piercing,' leaving none of the sweet and dim recesses so dear to the lover of nature.
We may, however, well be content to leave a man of Emerson's calibre to choose his own exercises.
It is best to suppose that he knew what he was about when he wandered into the fairyland of
verse, and that in such moments he found nothing better to his hand. Yet if we are bidden to
place him among the poets, it is enough to open Keats at the Ode to a Nightingale, or Shelley
at The Cloud, the Skylark, or the Sensitive Plant, or Wordsworth at Tintern Abbey, or Goethe
at Das Göttliche, or Victor Hugo in the Contemplations. Then in spite of occasional formality
of rhythm and artifice in ornament, we cannot choose but perceive how tuneful is their music,
how opulent the resources of their imagination, how various, subtle, and penetrating their
affinity for the fortunes and sympathies of men, and next how modest a portion of all these
rare and exquisite qualifications reveals itself in the verse of Emerson.

III.

Few minds of the first order that have busied themselves in contemplating the march of human
fortunes, have marched forward in a straight line of philosophic speculation unbroken to the
end. Like Burke, like Coleridge, like Wordsworth, at a given point they have a return upon
themselves. Having mastered the truths of one side, their eyes open to what is true on the
other; the work of revolution finished or begun, they experience fatigue and reaction. The
singularity and latitude of the summons drew together, from all parts of New England, and also
from the Middle States, men of every shade of opinion, from the straightest orthodoxy to the
wildest heresy, and many persons whose church was a church of one member only. A great variety
of dialect and of costume was noticed; a great deal of confusion, eccentricity, and freak appeared,
as well as of zeal and enthusiasm. If the Assembly was disorderly, it was picturesque. Madmen,
madwomen, men with beards, Dunkers, Muggletonians, Come-outers, Groaners, Agrarians, Seventh-day
Baptists, Quakers, Abolitionists, Calvinists, Unitarians, and philosophers, all came successively
to the top, and seized their moment, if not their hour, wherein to chide or pray or preach
or protest. The faces were a study. The most daring innovators, and the champions-until-death
of the old cause, sat side by side. The still living merit of the oldest New England families,
glowing yet after several generations, encountered the founders of families, fresh merit emerging
and expanding the brows to a new breadth, and lighting a clownish face with sacred fire. The
Assembly was characterised by the predominance of a certain plain sylvan strength and earnestness'
(Dial, iii. 101).

If the shade of Bossuet could have looked down upon the scene, he would have found fresh material
for the sarcasms which a hundred and fifty years before he had lavished on the Variations of
the Protestant Churches. Yet this curious movement, bleak and squalid as it may seem to men
nurtured in the venerable decorum of ecclesiastical tradition, was at bottom identical with
the yearning for stronger spiritual emotions, and the cravings of religious zeal, that had
in older times filled monasteries, manned the great orders, and sent wave upon wave of pilgrims
and crusaders to holy places. 'It is really amazing,' as was said by Franklin or somebody else
of his fashion of utilitarianism, 'that one of the passions which it is hardest to develop
in man is the passion for his own material comfort and temporal well-being.'

Emerson has put on record this mental intoxication of the progressive people around him, with
a pungency that might satisfy the Philistines themselves.[5] From 1820 to 1844, he said, New
England witnessed a general criticism and attack on institutions, and in all practical activities
a gradual withdrawal of tender consciences from the social organisations. Calvinists and Quakers
began to split into old school and new school. Goethe and the Germans became known. Swedenborg,
in spite of his taint of craziness, by the mere prodigy of his speculations, began 'to spread
himself into the minds of thousands'--including in no unimportant degree the mind of Emerson
himself.[6] Literary criticism counted for something in the universal thaw, and even the genial
humanity of Dickens helped to break up the indurations of old theology. Most powerful of all
was the indirect influence of science. Geology disclosed law in an unsuspected region, and
astronomy caused men to apprehend that 'as the earth is not the centre of the Universe, so
it is not the special scene or stage on which the drama of divine justice is played before
the assembled angels of heaven.'

[Footnote 5: New England Reformers: Essays, ii. 511-519.]

[Footnote 6: The Swedenborgians--'a sect which, I think, must contribute more than all other
sects to the new faith, which must come out of all.'--To Carlyle, 1834.]

A temper of scrutiny and dissent broke out in every direction. In almost every relation men
and women asked themselves by what right Conformity levied its tax, and whether they were not
false to their own consciences in paying it. Why should professional labour and that of the
counting-house be paid so disproportionately to the labour of the porter and the woodsawer?
It was giddy work, but he kept his eye on the fixed stars. Certainly Emerson was not assailed
by the stress of mighty and violent events, as Burke and Wordsworth were in some sense turned
into reactionaries by the calamities of revolution in France. The 'distemper of enthusiasm,'
as Shaftesbury would have called it, took a mild and harmless form in New England: there the
work in hand was not the break-up of a social system, but only the mental evolution of new
ideals, the struggle of an ethical revival, and the satisfaction of a livelier spirit of scruple.
In face of all delirations, Emerson kept on his way of radiant sanity and perfect poise. Though
he had been ardent in protest against the life conventional, as soon as the protest ran off
into extravagance, instead of either following or withstanding it with rueful petulancies,
he delicately and successfully turned a passing agitation into an enduring revival. The last
password given by the dying Antonine to the officer of the watch was Æquanimitas. In a brighter,
wider, and more living sense than was possible even to the noblest in the middle of the second
century, this, too, was the watchword of the Emersonian teaching. Instead of cultivating the
tormenting and enfeebling spirit of scruple, instead of multiplying precepts, he bade men not
to crush their souls out under the burden of Duty; they are to remember that a wise life is
not wholly filled up by commandments to do and to abstain from doing. Hence, we have in Emerson
the teaching of a vigorous morality without the formality of dogma and the deadly tedium of
didactics. If not laughter, of which only Shakespeare among the immortals has a copious and
unfailing spring, there is at least gaiety in every piece, and a cordial injunction to men
to find joy in their existence to the full. Happiness is with him an aim that we are at liberty
to seek directly and without periphrasis. Provided men do not lose their balance by immersing
themselves in their pleasures, they are right, according to Emerson, in pursuing them. But
joy is no neighbour to artificial ecstasy. What Emerson counsels the poet, he intended in its
own way and degree for all men. The poet's habit of living, he says beautifully, should be
set on a key so low that the commonest influences should delight him. 328).

It was perhaps the same necessity of having to guide men away from the danger of transcendental
aberrations, while yet holding up lofty ideals of conduct, that made Emerson say something
about many traits of conduct to which the ordinary high-flying moralist of the treatise or
the pulpit seldom deigns to stoop. The essays on Domestic Life, on Behaviour, on Manners, are
examples of the attention that Emerson paid to the right handling of the outer conditions of
a wise and brave life. With him small circumstances are the occasions of great qualities. The
parlour and the counting-house are as fit scenes for fortitude, self-control, considerateness,
and vision, as the senate or the battlefield. He re-classifies the virtues. No modern, for
example, has given so remarkable a place to Friendship among the sacred necessities of well-endowed
character. Neither Plato nor Cicero, least of all Bacon, has risen to so noble and profound
a conception of this most strangely commingled of all human affections. There is no modern
thinker, again, who makes Beauty--all that is gracious, seemly, and becoming--so conspicuous
and essential a part of life. It would be inexact to say that Emerson blended the beautiful
with the precepts of duty or of prudence into one complex sentiment, as the Greeks did, but
his theory of excellence might be better described than any other of modern times by the [Greek:
kalokagathia], the virtue of the true gentleman, as set down in Plato and Aristotle.

So untrue is it that in his quality of Sage Emerson always haunted the perilous altitudes of
Transcendentalism, 'seeing nothing under him but the everlasting snows of Himalaya, the Earth
shrinking to a Planet, and the indigo Firmament sowing itself with daylight stars.' He never
thinks it beneath his dignity to touch a point of minor morals, or to say a good word for what
he somewhere calls subterranean prudence. Emerson values mundane circumspection as highly as
Franklin, and gives to manners and rules of daily behaviour an importance that might have satisfied
Chesterfield. In fact, the worldly and the selfish are mistaken when they assume that Common
Sense is their special and exclusive portion. The small Transcendentalist goes in search of
truth with the meshes of his net so large that he takes no fish. His landscapes are all horizon.
It is only the great idealists, like Emerson, who take care not to miss the real.

The remedy for the break-down of the old churches would, in the mind of the egotist, have been
to found a new one. But Emerson knew well before Carlyle told him, that 'no truly great man,
from Jesus Christ downwards, ever founded a sect--I mean wilfully intended founding one.' Not
only did he establish no sect, but he preached a doctrine that was positively incompatible
with the erection of any sect upon its base. His whole hope for the world lies in the internal
and independent resources of the individual. If mankind is to be raised to a higher plane of
happiness and worth, it can only be by the resolution of each to live his own life with fidelity
and courage. The spectacle of one liberated from the malign obstructions to free human character,
is a stronger incentive to others than exhortation, admonition, or any sum of philanthropical
association. If I, in my own person and daily walk, quietly resist heaviness of custom, coldness
of hope, timidity of faith, then without wishing, contriving, or even knowing it, I am a light
silently drawing as many as have vision and are fit to walk in the same path. Whether I do
that or not, I am at least obeying the highest law of my own being.

In the appeal to the individual to be true to himself, Emerson does not stand apart from other
great moral reformers. His distinction lies in the peculiar direction that he gives to his
appeal. All those regenerators of the individual, from Rousseau down to J.S. Mill, who derived
their first principles, whether directly or indirectly, from Locke and the philosophy of sensation,
experience, and acquisition, began operations with the will. They laid all their stress on
the shaping of motives by education, institutions, and action, and placed virtue in deliberateness
and in exercise. Emerson, on the contrary, coming from the intuitional camp, holds that our
moral nature is vitiated by any interference of our will. Translated into the language of theology,
his doctrine makes regeneration to be a result of grace, and the guide of conscience to be
the indwelling light; though, unlike the theologians, he does not trace either of these mysterious
gifts to the special choice and intervention of a personal Deity. Impulsive and spontaneous
innocence is higher than the strength to conquer temptation. The natural motions of the soul
are so much better than the voluntary ones. 'There is no such thing as manufacturing a strong
will,' for all great force is real and elemental. In all this Emerson suffers from the limitations
that are inseparable from pure spiritualism in all its forms. As if the spiritual constitution
were ever independent of the material organisation bestowed upon the individual at the moment
when he is conceived, or of the social conditions that close about him from the instant of
his birth. The reaction, however, against what was superficial in the school of the eighteenth
century went to its extreme length in Emerson, and blinded his eyes to the wisdom, the profundity,
and the fruitfulness of their leading speculations. It is enough for us to note the fact in
passing, without plunging into contention on the merits. All thoughts are always ready, potentially
if not actually. Each age selects and assimilates the philosophy that is most apt for its wants.
Institutions needed regeneration in France, and so those thinkers came into vogue and power
who laid most stress on the efficacy of good institutions. In Emerson's America, the fortunes
of the country made external circumstances safe for a man, and his chance was assured; so a
philosophy was welcomed which turned the individual inwards upon himself, and taught him to
consider his own character and spiritual faculty as something higher than anything external
could ever be.

Again to make a use which is not uninstructive of the old tongue, Emerson is for faith before
works. Nature, he says, will not have us fret and fume. She does not like our benevolences,
our churches, our pauper-societies, much better than she likes our frauds and wars. They are
but so many yokes to the neck. Our painful labours are unnecessary and fruitless. A higher
law than that of our will regulates events. If we look wider, things are all alike: laws and
creeds and modes of living are a travesty of truth. Only in our easy, simple, spontaneous action
are we strong, and by contenting ourselves with obedience we become strong. Our real action
is in our silent moments. Why should we be awed by the name of Action? 'Tis a trick of the
senses.[7]

[Footnote 7: Essays: Spiritual Laws, etc.]

Justification by faith has had a savour of antinomianism and indifferency ever since the day
when Saint Paul so emphatically denied that he made void the law through faith, and said of
certain calumniators that their damnation was just. Emerson was open to the same charge, and
he knew it. In a passage already quoted, Emerson says good-humouredly that his wife keeps his
philosophy from running to antinomianism He could not mistake the tendency of saying that,
if you look wider, things are all alike, and that we are in the grasp of a higher law than
our own will. On that side he only paints over in rainbow colours the grim doctrine which the
High Calvinist and the Materialistic Necessarian hold in common.

All great minds perceive all things; the only difference lies in the order in which they shall
choose to place them. Emerson, for good reason of his own, dwelt most on fate, character, and
the unconscious and hidden sources, but he writes many a page of vigorous corrective. It is
wholesome, he says, to man to look not at Fate, but the other way; the practical view is the
other. The world did not need him to tell it that a man's fortunes are a part of his character.
His task was the more far-reaching one of drawing them to recognise that love is the important
thing, not benevolent works; that only impure men consider life as it is reflected in events,
opinions, and persons; that they fail to see the action until it is done, whereas what is far
better worth considering is that its moral element præ-existed in the actor.

It would be easy to show that Emerson has not worked out his answers to these eternal enigmas,
for ever reproducing themselves in all ages, in such a form as to defy the logician's challenge.
He never shrinks from inconsistent propositions. He was unsystematic on principle. 'He thought
that truth has so many facets that the best we can do is to notice each in turn, without troubling
ourselves whether they agree.' When we remember the inadequateness of human language, the infirmities
of our vision, and all the imperfections of mental apparatus, the wise men will not disdain
even partial glimpses of a scene too vast and intricate to be comprehended in a single map.
To complain that Emerson is no systematic reasoner is to miss the secret of most of those who
have given powerful impulses to the spiritual ethics of an age. It is not a syllogism that
turns the heart towards purification of life and aim; it is not the logically enchained propositions
of a sorites, but the flash of illumination, the indefinable accent, that attracts masses of
men to a new teacher and a high doctrine. The teasing ergoteur is always right, but he never
leads nor improves nor inspires.

Any one can see how this side of the Emersonian gospel harmonised with the prepossessions of
a new democracy. Trust, he said, to leading instincts, not to traditional institutions, nor
social ordering, nor the formulæ of books and schools for the formation of character; the great
force is real and elemental. In art, Mr. Ruskin has explained the palpable truth that semi-civilised
nations can colour better than we do, and that an Indian shawl and China vase are inimitable
by us. 'It is their glorious ignorance of all rules that does it; the pure and true instincts
have play, and do their work; and the moment we begin teaching people any rules about colour,
and make them do this or that, we crush the instinct, generally for ever' (Modern Painters,
iii. 91). Emerson said what comes to the same thing about morals. The philosophy of democracy,
or the government of a great mixed community by itself, rests on a similar assumption in politics.
The foundations of a self-governed society on a great scale are laid in leading instincts.
Emerson was never tired of saying that we are wiser than we know. The path of science and of
letters is not the way to nature. What food, or experience, or succour have Olympiads and Consulates
for the Esquimaux seal-hunter, for the Kanáka in his canoe, for the fisherman, the stevedore,
the porter? When he is in this vein Emerson often approaches curiously near to Rousseau's memorable
and most potent paradox of 1750, that the sciences corrupt manners.[8]

[Footnote 8: What so good, asks Rousseau, 'as a sweet and precious ignorance, the treasure
of a pure soul at peace with itself, which finds all its blessedness in inward retreat, in
testifying to itself its own innocence, and which feels no need of seeking a warped and hollow
happiness in the opinion of other people as to its enlightenment?']

Most men will now agree that when the great fiery trial came, the Emersonian faith and the
democratic assumption abundantly justified themselves. Even Carlyle wrote to Emerson at last
(June 4, 1871): 'In my occasional explosions against Anarchy, and my inextinguishable hatred
of it, I privately whisper to myself, "Could any Friedrich Wilhelm now, or Friedrich, or most
perfect Governor you could hope to realise, guide forward what is America's essential task
at present, faster or more completely than 'Anarchic America' is now doing?" Such "Anarchy"
has a great deal to say for itself.'

The traits of comparison between Carlyle and Emerson may be regarded as having been pretty
nearly exhausted for the present, until time has changed the point of view. In wit, humour,
pathos, penetration, poetic grandeur, and fervid sublimity of imagination, Carlyle is the superior
beyond measure. But Emerson is as much his superior in that high and transparent sanity, which
is not further removed from midsummer madness than it is from a terrene and grovelling mediocrity.
This sanity, among other things, kept Emerson in line with the ruling tendencies of his age,
and his teaching brings all the aid that abstract teaching can, towards the solution of the
moral problems of modern societies. Carlyle chose to fling himself headlong and blindfold athwart
the great currents of things, against all the forces and elements that are pushing modern societies
forward. Beginning in his earlier work with the same faith as Emerson in leading instincts,
he came to dream that the only leading instinct worth thinking about is that of self-will,
mastery, force, and violent strength. Emerson was for basing the health of a modern commonwealth
on the only real strength, and the only kind of force that can be relied upon, namely, the
honest, manly, simple, and emancipated character of the citizen. This gives to his doctrine
a hold and a prize on the work of the day, and makes him our helper. Carlyle's perverse reaction
had wrecked and stranded him when the world came to ask him for direction. In spite of his
resplendent genius, he had no direction to give, and was only able in vague and turbid torrents
of words to hide a shallow and obsolete lesson. His confession to Emerson, quoted above, looks
as if at last he had found this out for himself.

If Emerson stood thus well towards the social and political drift of events, his teaching was
no less harmoniously related to the new and most memorable drift of science which set in by
his side. It is a misconception to pretend that he was a precursor of the Darwinian theory.
Evolution, as a possible explanation of the ordering of the universe, is a great deal older
than either Emerson or Darwin. What Darwin did was to work out in detail and with masses of
minute evidence a definite hypothesis of the specific conditions under which new forms are
evolved. Emerson, of course, had no definite hypothesis of this sort, nor did he possess any
of the knowledge necessary to give it value. But it was his good fortune that some of his strongest
propositions harmonise with the scientific theory of the survival of the fittest in the struggle
for material existence. He connects his exhortation to self-reliance with the law working in
nature for conservation and growth,--to wit, that 'Power is in nature the essential measure
of right,' and that 'Nature suffers nothing to remain in her kingdom which cannot help itself.'
The same strain is constantly audible. Nature on every side, within us and without, is for
ever throwing out new forms and fresh varieties of living and thinking. To her experiments
in every region there is no end. Those succeed which prove to have the best adaptation to the
conditions. Let, therefore, neither society nor the individual check experiment, originality,
and infinite variation. Such language, we may see, fits in equally well with democracy in politics
and with evolution in science. If, moreover, modern science gives more prominence to one conception
than another, it is to that of the natural universe of force and energy, as One and a Whole.
This too is the great central idea with Emerson, repeated a thousand times in prose and in
verse, and lying at the very heart of his philosophy. Newton's saying that 'the world was made
at one cast' delights him. There are pages that to the present writer, at least, after reasonably
diligent meditation, remain mere abracadabra, incomprehensible and worthless. For much of this
in Emerson, the influence of Plato is mainly responsible, and it may be noted in passing that
his account of Plato (Representative Men) is one of his most unsatisfactory performances.

One remarkable result of Emerson's idealism ought not to be passed over. 'The visible becomes
the Bestial,' said Carlyle, 'when it rests not on the invisible.' To Emerson all rested on
the invisible, and was summed up in terms of the invisible, and hence the Bestial was almost
unknown in his philosophic scheme. Nay, we may say that some mighty phenomena in our universe
were kept studiously absent from his mind. Here is one of the profoundest differences between
Emerson and most of those who, on as high an altitude, have pondered the same great themes.
A small trait will serve for illustration. It was well known in his household that he could
not bear to hear of ailments. 'There is one topic,' he writes, 'peremptorily forbidden to all
well-bred, to all rational mortals, namely, their distempers. If you have not slept, or if
you have slept, or if you have headache, sciatica, or leprosy, or thunder-stroke, I beseech
you by all angels to hold your peace, and not pollute the morning, to which all the housemates
bring serene and pleasant thoughts, by corruption and groans. Come out of the azure. Love the
day'--(Conduct of Life, 159).

If he could not endure these minor perturbations of the fair and smiling face of daily life,
far less did he willingly think of Death. Of nothing in all the wide range of universal topics
does Emerson say so little as of that which has lain in sombre mystery at the very core of
most meditations on life, from Job and Solon down to Bacon and Montaigne. Except in two beautiful
poems, already mentioned, Death is almost banished from his page. It is not the title or the
subject of one of his essays, only secondarily even of that on Immortality. Love, Friendship,
Prudence, Heroism, Experience, Manners, Nature, Greatness, and a score of other matters--but
none to show that he ever sat down to gather into separate and concentrated shape his reflections
on the terrifying phantom that has haunted the mind of man from the very birth of time.

Pascal bade us imagine a number of men in chains and doomed to death; some of them each day
butchered in sight of the others; those who remained watching their own lot in that of their
fellows, and awaiting their turn in anguish and helplessness. Such, he cried, is the pitiful
and desperate condition of man. But nature has other cruelties more stinging than death. Mill,
himself an optimist, yet declares the course of natural phenomena to be replete with everything
which, when committed by human beings is most worthy of abhorrence, so that 'one who endeavoured
in his actions to imitate the natural course of things would be universally seen and acknowledged
to be the wickedest of men.' To man himself, moreover, 'the most criminal actions are not more
unnatural than most of the virtues.' We need not multiply from poets and divines, from moralists
and sages, these grim pictures. The sombre melancholy, the savage moral indignation, the passionate
intellectual scorn, with which life and the universe have filled strong souls, some with one
emotion and some with another, were all to Emerson in his habitual thinking unintelligible
and remote. There is perhaps no better moral than this of the Stoic, but greater impressiveness
might have marked the lesson, if our teacher had been more indulgent to the man's sense of
tragedy in that vast drama in which he plays his piteous part.

In like manner, Emerson has little to say of that horrid burden and impediment on the soul,
which the churches call Sin, and which, by whatever name we call it, is a very real catastrophe
in the moral nature of man. He had no eye, like Dante's, for the vileness, the cruelty, the
utter despicableness to which humanity may be moulded. If he saw them at all, it was through
the softening and illusive medium of generalised phrases. Nor was he ever shocked and driven
into himself by 'the immoral thoughtlessness' of men. The courses of nature, and the prodigious
injustices of man in society, affect him with neither horror nor awe. He will see no monster
if he can help it. For the fatal Nemesis or terrible Erinnyes, daughters of Erebus and Night,
Emerson substitutes a fair-weather abstraction named Compensation. One radical tragedy in nature
he admits--'the distinction of More and Less.' If I am poor in faculty, dim in vision, shut
out from opportunity, in every sense an outcast from the inheritance of the earth, that seems
indeed to be a tragedy. What can be more idle, when one of the world's bitter puzzles is pressed
on the teacher, than that he should betake himself to an altitude whence it is not visible,
and then assure us that it is not only invisible, but non-existent? This is not to see the
facts clearly, but to pour the fumes of obscuration round them. When he comforts us by saying
'Love, and you shall be loved,' who does not recall cases which make the Jean Valjean of Victor
Hugo's noble romance not a figment of the theatre, but an all too actual type? The believer
who looks to another world to redress the wrongs and horrors of this; the sage who warns us
that the law of life is resignation, renunciation, and doing-without (entbehren sollst du)--each
of these has a foothold in common language. But to say that all infractions of love and equity
are speedily punished--punished by fear--and then to talk of the perfect compensation of the
universe, is mere playing with words, for it does not solve the problem in the terms in which
men propound it. Emerson, as we have said, held the spirit of System in aversion as fettering
the liberal play of thought, just as in morals, with greater boldness, he rebelled against
a minute and cramping interpretation of Duty. We are not sure that his own optimistic doctrine
did not play him the same tyrannical trick, by sealing his eyes to at least one half of the
actualities of nature and the gruesome possibilities of things. It had no unimportant effect
on Emerson's thought that he was born in a new world that had cut itself loose from old history.
The black and devious ways through which the race has marched are not real in North America,
as they are to us in old Europe, who live on the very site of secular iniquities, are surrounded
by monuments of historic crime, and find present and future entangled, embittered, inextricably
loaded both in blood and in institutions with desperate inheritances from the past.

There are many topics, and those no mean topics, on which the best authority is not the moralist
by profession, as Emerson was, but the man of the world. The world hardens, narrows, desiccates
common natures, but nothing so enriches generous ones. For knowledge of the heart of man, we
must go to those who were closer to the passions and interests of actual and varied life than
Emerson ever could have been--to Horace, Montaigne, La Bruyère, Swift, Molière, even to Pope.
If a hostile critic were to say that Emerson looked at life too much from the outside, as the
clergyman is apt to do, we should condemn such a remark as a disparagement, but we should understand
what it is in Emerson that the critic means. He has not the temperament of the great humorists,
under whatever planet they may have been born, jovial, mercurial, or saturnine. Even his revolt
against formalism is only a new fashion of composure, and sometimes comes dangerously near
to moral dilettantism. The persistent identification of everything in nature with everything
else sometimes bewilders, fatigues, and almost afflicts us. Though he warns us that our civilisation
is not near its meridian, but as yet only in the cock-crowing and the morning star, still all
ages are much alike with him: man is always man, 'society never advances,' and he does almost
as little as Carlyle himself to fire men with faith in social progress as the crown of wise
endeavour. He even whipped the money changers out in all the temple. But no rebuke of woman nice fell
from his lips save a indian one to Martha, that she cared too much for her home and her ever housekeeping. Christ's
mission meant the elevation to womanhood. Compare united countries with the heathen countries,
and see how Christianity elevates and heathenism degrades womanhood. I have studied
the questions of the Territory by our own christian States.


END OF VOL. I.

Printed by R. & R. CLARK, LIMITED, Edinburgh.

