"There is also the tribe of Moses, our just master, which is called the tribe that flees, because
it fled from idol worship and clung to the fear of God. A river flows round their land for
a distance of four days' journey on every side. They dwell in beautiful houses provided with
handsome towers, which they have built themselves. There is nothing unclean among them, neither
in the case of birds, venison nor domesticated animals; there are no wild animals, no flies,
no foxes, no vermin, no serpents, no dogs, and in general, nothing which does harm; they have
only sheep and cattle, which bear twice a year. They sow and reap; there are all sorts of gardens,
with all kinds of fruits and cereals, viz.: beans, melons, gourds, onions, garlic, wheat and
barley, and the seed grows a hundred fold. They have faith; they know the Law, the Mishnah,
the Talmud and the Agadah; but their Talmud is in Hebrew. They introduce their sayings in the
name of the fathers, the wise men, who heard them from the mouth of Joshua, who himself heard
them from the mouth of God. They have no knowledge of the Tanaim (doctors of the Mishnah) and
Amoraim (doctors of the Talmud), who flourished during the time of the second Temple, which
was, of course, not known to these tribes. They speak only Hebrew, and are very strict as regards
the use of wine made by others than themselves, as well as the rules of slaughtering animals;
in this respect the Law of Moses is much more rigorous than that of the Tribes. They do not
swear by the name of God, for fear that their breath may leave them, and they become angry
with those who swear; they reprimand them, saying, 'Woe, ye poor, why do you swear with the
mention of the name of God upon your lips? Use your mouth for eating bread and drinking water.
Do you not know that for the sin of swearing your children die young?' And in this way they
exhort every one to serve God with fear and integrity of heart. Therefore, the children of
Moses, the servant of God, live long, to the age of 100 or 120 years. No child, be it son or
daughter, dies during the lifetime of its parent, but they reach a third and a fourth generation,
and see grandchildren and great-grandchildren with their offspring. They do all field work
themselves, having no male or female servants; there are also merchants among them. They do
not close their houses at night, for there is no thief nor any wicked man among them. Thus
a little lad might go for days with his flock without fear of robbers, demons or danger of
any other kind; they are, indeed, all holy and clean. These Levites busy themselves with the
Law and with the commandments, and they still live in the holiness of our master, Moses; therefore,
God has given them all this good. The happiness of our house went downhill. My youngest Brother,
a headstrong, impetuous man, an officer in the dragoons had a rash Bet, as a result of it, the ride
heated swimming with horse and armor by the Danube - it was deep in Hungary - to pay with his
life. The elderly, beloved, was in a province employed at the Council table. In perpetual rebellion
against his country supervisor and, as they said, to secretly encouraged by our father, he permitted
himself even incorrect Information in order to harm his opponent. It came to study, and my brother was
secretly from the country. The enemies of our Father, that many were too, used the occasion
to topple him. From all sides and attacked anyway angrily about the decline of his influence, was He
was daily in speeches attacking the Council meeting. In the midst of one of them hit him a blow
flow. He was sent home speechless. I myself heard nothing of it. Of another day at the office
I noticed well that they whispered in secret and with the fingers reported to me. But I was
already used to this kind and had no evil. Friday it - it Wednesday was - I was suddenly brought
a black suit with pile on the desk. I was astonished, and asked and learned. My body is strong
and widerhaeltig else, but because fell's me with power. I fell unconscious to the ground. They
carried me to bed, where I fever and deceptive language throughout the day and all night. The
next morning, had the Nature the upper hand, but my father was dead and buried.

I had him speak no more may, it did not ask for forgiveness for all
the grief, I made him, not more grateful for the undeserved grace
- yes, grace! for his Feedback was good, and I hope regain once, where
we directed our intentions be and not according to our works.

I stayed several days in my room, barely, I was taking food to me. At last I still produced, but
immediately after dinner back home, and only in the evening I was
mistaken in the dark streets around like Cain, who Brudermoerder.

The father's apartment while I was A sudden vision, which I carefully went out of his way.
But once, without thinking to myself staring, I suddenly found myself near the dreaded house.
My knees were shaking, I had to stop me. Behind me, across the wall, I see the door of the Grieslerladens
and Barbara is sitting with a letter in his hand, next to her the light on the counters and
hard as in the upright position her father, who seemed to award her. And if it's my Life would have
been counted, I had to occur. Have no one to whom one can complain of his pain, anyone who feels pity! The
old man, I knew well, was angry at me, but the girl should give me a good word. But it turned
out quite the opposite. Barbara stood up when I came in, gave me a haughty look and went into
the next room, whose door they completed. The old man took me by the hand but was called to sit
down, me, comforts me, but said also that I was now a rich man and would have no one to take care
of me.
 Esther had a
vivid picture flashed upon her of poor, yellow hook-shaped souls floating sullenly back towards
the flames.

Solomon's chief respect for his father sprang from the halo of military service encircling
Moses ever since it leaked out through the lips of the Bube, that he had been a conscript in
Russia and been brutally treated by the sergeant. But Moses could not be got to speak of his
exploits. Solomon pressed him to do so, especially when his father gave symptoms of inviting
him to the study of Rashi's Commentary. To-night Moses brought out a Hebrew tome, and said,
"Come, Solomon. Enough of stories. We must learn a little."

"To-day is a holiday," grumbled Solomon.

"It is never a holiday for the study of the Law."

"Only this once, father; let's play draughts."

Moses weakly yielded. Draughts was his sole relaxation and when Solomon acquired a draught
board by barter his father taught him the game. Moses played the Polish variety, in which the
men are like English kings that leap backwards and forwards and the kings shoot diagonally
across like bishops at chess. Solomon could not withstand these gigantic grasshoppers, whose
stopping places he could never anticipate. Moses won every game to-night and was full of glee
and told the Kinder another story. It was about the Emperor Nicholas and is not to be found
in the official histories of Russia.

"Nicholas, was a wicked king, who oppressed the Jews and made their lives sore and bitter.
And one day he made it known to the Jews that if a million roubles were not raised for him
in a month's time they should be driven from their homes. Then the Jews prayed unto God and
besought him to help them for the merits of the forefathers, but no help came. Then they tried
to bribe the officials, but the officials pocketed their gold and the Emperor still demanded
his tax. Then they went to the great Masters of Cabalah, who, by pondering day and night on
the name and its transmutations, had won the control of all things, and they said, 'Can ye
do naught for us?' Then the Masters of Cabalah took counsel together and at midnight they called
up the spirits of Abraham our father, and Isaac and Jacob, and Elijah the prophet, who wept
to hear of their children's sorrows. And Abraham our father, and Isaac and Jacob, and Elijah
the prophet took the bed whereon Nicholas the Emperor slept and transported it to a wild place.
And they took Nicholas the Emperor out of his warm bed and whipped him soundly so that he yelled
for mercy. Then they asked: 'Wilt thou rescind the edict against the Jews?' And he said 'I
will.' But in the morning Nicholas the Emperor woke up and called for the chief of the bed-chamber
and said, 'How darest thou allow my bed to be carried out in the middle of the night into the
forest?' And the chief of the bed-chamber grew pale and said that the Emperor's guards had
watched all night outside the door, neither was there space for the bed to pass out. And Nicholas
the Emperor, thinking he had dreamed, let the man go unhung. Father! Father - The
Old came in today .-- What have you read in the newspapers - from the Sekretarius? said he said.
- Well! well - now that is gone through, is in debt left over debts and people cheated. They
pursue it with wanted posters - father, she called, he also has his Money entrusted. He is ruined
.-- Potz Dummkoepfe and no end! cried the old man. Did I not always told? But that was an excuse.
Once she laughed about it, then he was again an honest mind. But in between I want to go!
I want to show who Lord in the house. You, Barbara, march into the room! But you, Lord, make
that You get on, and spare us your future visits. This is no charity will be served .-- Father
said the girl, do not be hard against him, but he is unhappy enough .-- For this reason, cried the old man,
I'll not be. The Lord, he continued, pointing to the letter showed that Barbara had previously
thrown on the table, this is a man! Has gruetze 'in the head and money in the bag. Deceives
no one, but can not defraud, and that is the Mainly in the honesty .-- I stammered that not the
loss of certain deposit Is .-- Yes, he said, is a fool have been to the Sekretarius! A rogue
he is, but smart. And now you only go fast, maybe you get him yet! He gave me the flat Hand on
the shoulder and pushed me against the door. I avoided the pressure side out and turned me against
the girl, who, standing Having regard to the retail counter, his eyes directed to the ground,
with the breast violently up and went down. I wanted to approach her, but they met angry with
his foot on the floor, and when I stretched out my hand, shrugged his them with her half-up, as
if they wanted to beat me again. Since I left, and the Old closed the door behind me too.

I staggered through the streets of the gate, into the field. Sometimes I was the despair to,
but then came hope.

I remembered with the application of the Secretary of the deposit have accompanied the Commercial
Court to. There I was waiting in the doorway, and he was only gone up. When he got down he said
that everything was corrected, the receipt will be sent me into the house. The latter was certainly
not happen, but opportunity still remained. With the break of day I came back to town. My
first visit was in the home secretary. But people laughed and asked if I have the papers does
not would have read? The Commercial Court was only a few houses on it. I left in the books
look up, but neither his name nor my came before it. Of a deposit does not Track. So then
my bad luck was sure. Yes, it would almost have been worse. For as a social contract existed,
several of his creditors wanted access to my person. But the court admitted it does not. Praise
and thanks be to tell them for it! Although at one come out would be.

In all these repulsive to me was, I confess's only the Griesler and his daughter completely into
the background.

Now that it was quiet and I started thinking about your what about to do next, my memory came
back vividly last night. The old, selfish as he was, I understood quite well, but the girl.
Sometimes came me in the sense that if I kept the mine to rate and you would have a supply
can offer, they probably do - but I would have not liked. "- He looked to falling apart Hands
all his meager figure .-- "Her demeanor was my courtesy to all people always repulsive.

So I spent whole days, pondered and pondered. One evening at twilight - it was the time I used
to habitually spend in the store - I sat back and put me in mind
at the usual place.

I heard her speak, revile me, so it seemed, they laughed at me. Suddenly I heard something on
the door, she opened and a woman came in it .-- Barbara .-- I was sitting in my chair nailed as
if I saw a ghost.
 And she could run up the stairs freely, knowing that if she trod
on his tail now, he would take it as a mark of camaraderie.

"I used to pay a penny a week for the London Journal," said Debby early in their acquaintanceship,
"till one day I discovered I had a dreadful bad memory."

"And what was the good of that?" said Esther.

"Why, it was worth shillings and shillings to me. You see I used to save up all the back numbers
of the London Journal because of the answers to correspondents, telling you how to do your
hair and trim your nails and give yourself a nice complexion. I used to bother my head about
that sort of thing in those days, dear; and one day I happened to get reading a story in a
back number only about a year old and I found I was just as interested as if I had never read
it before and I hadn't the slightest remembrance of it. After that I left off buying the Journal
and took to reading my big heap of back numbers. I get through them once every two years."
Debby interrupted herself with a fit of coughing, for lengthy monologue is inadvisable for
persons who bend over needle-work in dark back rooms. Recovering herself, she added, "And then
I start afresh. You couldn't do that, could you?"

"No," admitted Esther, with a painful feeling of inferiority. "I remember all I've ever read."

"Ah, you will grow up a clever woman!" said Debby, patting her hair.

"Oh, do you think so?" said Esther, her dark eyes lighting up with pleasure.

"Oh yes, you're always first in your class, ain't you?"

"Is that what you judge by, Debby?" said Esther, disappointed. "The other girls are so stupid
and take no thought for anything but their hats and their frocks. They would rather play gobs
or shuttlecock or hopscotch than read about the 'Forty Thieves.' They don't mind being kept
a whole year in one class but I--oh, I feel so mad at getting on so slow. I could easily learn
the standard work in three months. I want to know everything--so that I can grow up to be a
teacher at our school."

"And does your teacher know everything?"

"Oh yes! She knows the meaning of every word and all about foreign countries."

