Mark laughed. "If you do object, why--we'll just go anyway. But you'll have no share."

And surly Varde added: "We'd as soon you did object."

Mark bade him be quiet. "That's not true, Joel," he said. "You know, I wanted you in this,
from the first. Your coming in will--prevent complications. With you in, the whole matter is
very simple, and safe.... But without you, we will be forced to take measures that may be--reprehensible."

Joel did not speak; and Priss, trembling against the door, thought bitterly: "He's afraid....
He said, himself, that he is afraid...."

Dick Morrell begged eagerly: "Please, Captain Shore. There's a fortune for all of us. Mr. Worthen
would tell you to do it...."

Joel said then: "I told Mark Shore in the beginning that I would not risk my ship. The enterprise
is not lawful. The pearls were stolen in the beginning; murder hung around them. Bad luck would
follow them--and there are blacks on the island to prevent our finding them, in any case."

"There's no harm in going to see," Morrell urged.

"'Tis far out of our proper way. Wasted time. And--the men should be thinking of oil, not of
pearls."

Mark laughed. "That may be," he agreed. "But the men's thoughts are already on the pearls.
They've no mind for whaling, Joel. They've no mind for it."

"I'm doubtful that what you say is true."

His brother snapped angrily: "Do you call me liar?"

"No," said Joel gently. "You were never one to lie, Mark." And Priss, listening, winced at
the thing that was like apology in his tone. She heard Mark laugh again, aloud; and she heard
the fat chuckle of Jim Finch. Then Mark said:

"It's well you remember that. So.... Will you go with us; or do we go without you?"

There was a long moment of silence before Joel answered. At last he said: "You're making to
spill blood on the Nathan Ross, Mark. I've no mind for that. I'll not have it--if I can stop
it. So ... I'll consider this matter, to-night, and give you your answer in the morning."

"You'll answer now," Varde said sullenly. "There's too much words and words.... You'll answer now."

"I'll answer in the morning," Joel repeated, as though he had not heard Varde. "In the morning.
And--for now--I'll bid you good night, gentlemen."

Mark chuckled. "There's one matter, Joel. You've two rifles and a pair of revolvers in the
lockfast by your cabin there. I'll take them--to avoid that blood-spilling you mention."

Priss held her breath, listening.... But Joel said readily: "Yes. Here is the key, Mark. And--I
hold you responsible for the weapons."

Her anger at Joel for his submission beat in her ears; and she heard the jingle of the keys,
and the scrape and ring of the weapons as Mark took them. He called to Joel as he did so: "They'll
not leave my hands. Till the morning, Joel, my boy...."

The keys jingled again. Mark said: "We'll ask you to stay in the after cabin here till morning.
And--Varde will be in the main cabin to see that you do it."

"I'll stay here," Joel promised.

"Then--we'll bid you good night!"

Priss heard Joel echo the words, in even tones. Then the door closed behind the men.... There
was no further sound in the after cabin.

She opened her door. Joel stood by his desk, head drooping, one hand resting on the open log
before him. She went toward him, and when he turned and saw her, she stopped, and studied him,
her eyes searching his. And at last she said, so softly it was as though she spoke to herself:

"'All the brothers were valiant,' Joel. Are you--just a coward?"

He would not justify himself to her; he could only remember the shadowed deck beneath the boat
house--Priscilla in his brother's arms.... He lifted his right hand a little, said sternly:

"Go back to your place."

She flung her eyes away from him, stood for an instant, then went to her cabin with feet that
lagged and stumbled.

XIV

Joel lay for an hour, planning what he should do. He could not yield.... He could not yield,
even though he might wish to do so; for the yielding would forfeit forever all control over
these men, or any others. He could not yield....

Yet he did not wish to fight; for the battle would be hopeless, with only death at the end
for him, and it would ruin the men and lose the ship.... Blood marks a ship with a mark that
cannot be washed away. And Joel loved his ship; and he loved his men with something of the
love of a father for children. Children they were. He knew them. Simple, easily led, easily
swept by some adventurous vision....

He slept, at last, dreamlessly; and in the morning, when they came to him, he told them what
he wished to do.

"Call the men aft," he said. "I'll speak to them. We'll see what their will is."

Mark mocked him. "Ask the men, is it?" he exclaimed. "Let them vote, you'll be saying. Are
you master of the ship, man; or just first selectman, that you'd call a town meeting on the
high seas?"

"I'll talk with the men," said Joel stubbornly.

Varde strode forward angrily. "You'll talk with us," he said. "Yes or no. Now. What is it?"

They were in the main cabin. Joel looked at Varde steadily for an instant; then he said: "I'm
going on deck. You'll come...."

Priss, in the door of the after cabin, a frightened and trembling little figure, called to
him: "Joel. Joel. Don't...."

He said, without turning: "Stay in your cabin, Priscilla." And then he passed between Varde
and Finch, at the foot of the companion, and turned his back upon them and went steadily up
the steep, ladder-like stair. Varde made a convulsive movement to seize his arm; but Mark touched
the man, held him with his eyes, whispered something....

They had left old Hooper on deck. He and Aaron Burnham were standing in the after house when
Joel saw them. Joel said to the third mate: "Mr. Hooper, tell the men to lay aft."

Mark had come up at Joel's heels; and Hooper looked past Joel to Mark for confirmation. And
Mark smiled mirthlessly, and approved. "Yes, Mr. Hooper, call the men," he said. "We're to
hold a town meeting."

Old Hooper's slow brain could not follow such maneuvering; nevertheless, he bellowed a command.
And the harpooners from the steerage, and the men from forecastle and fore deck came stumbling
and crowding aft. The men stopped amidships; and Joel went toward them a little ways, until
he was under the boat house. The mates stood about him, the harpooners a little to one side;
and Mark leaned on the rail at the other side of the deck, watching, smiling.... The revolvers
were in his belt; the rifles leaned against the after rail. He polished the butt of one of
the revolvers while he watched and smiled....

Joel said, without preamble: "Men, the mates tell me that you've heard of my brother's pearls."

The men looked at one another, and at the mates. They were a jumbled lot, riff-raff of all
the seas, Cape Verders, Islanders, a Cockney or two, a Frenchman, two or three Norsemen, and
a backbone of New England stock. They looked at one another, and at the mates, with stupid,
questioning eyes; and one or two of them nodded in a puzzled way, and the Cape Verders grinned
with embarrassment. A New Englander drawled:

"Aye, sir. We've heard th' tale."

Joel nodded. "When my brother came aboard at Tubuai," he said quietly, "he proposed that we
go to this island.... I do not know its position--"

Mark drawled from across the deck: "You know as much as any man aboard--myself excepted, Joel.
It's my own secret, mind."

"He proposed that we go to this island," Joel pursued, "and that he and I go ashore and get
the pearls and say nothing about them."

Varde, at Joel's side, swung his head and looked bleakly at Mark Shore; and one or two of the
men murmured. Joel said quickly: "Don't misunderstand. I'm not blaming him for that. You must
not. The pearls are his. He has a right to them....

"What I want you to know is that I refused to go with him and get them on half shares. I could
have had half, and refused....

"Now he has spread the story among you. And the mates say that I must go with you all, and
get the things."

He stopped, and the eyes of the men were on him; and one or two nodded, and a voice here and
there exclaimed in approval. Joel waited until they were quiet again; then he said: "These--pearls--have
cost life. At least five men and a woman died in the getting of them. If we had them aboard
here, more of us would die; for none would be content with his share....

"It's in my mind that they'd bring blood aboard the Nathan Ross. And I have no wish for that.
But first--

"How many of you are for going after them?"

There was a murmur of assent from many throats; and Joel looked from man to man. "Most of you,
at least," he said. "Is there any man against going?"

There may have been, but no man spoke; and over Joel's face passed a weary little shadow of
pain. For a long moment he stood in the sun, studying them; and they saw his lips were white.
Then he said quietly:

"You shall not go. The Nathan Ross goes on about her proper matters. The pearls stay where
they are."

He shifted his weight, looked quickly toward his brother.... He was poised for battle. By the
very force of his word, there was a chance he might prevail. He watched the men, in whose hands
the answer lay. If he could hold them....

Hands clamped his arms, and Mark smiled across the deck. Finch and old Hooper on one side,
Varde and Morrell on the other. And after the first wrench of his surprise, he knew it was
hopeless to struggle, and stood quietly. Mark strolled across the deck, smiling coldly.

"If you'll not go, Joel, you must be taken," he said. And to the mates: "Bring back his arms."

Joel felt the cord slipped through his elbows and drawn tight and looped and made secure. Old
Aaron Burnham pushed forward and tugged at them; and Joel heard him say: "They'll hold him
fast, Captain Shore. Like a trussed fowl, sir. That he is...."

"Captain Shore?" That would be Mark, come into command of the ship again. And Aaron added:
"I've set the bolt on his cabin door, sir. Not five minutes gone."

Mark laughed. "Good enough, Aaron. You and Varde take him down. Varde, you'll stay in the after
cabin. If he tries to get free, summon me. And--treat Mrs. Shore with the utmost courtesy."

Varde was at Joel's side; and Joel saw the twist of his smile at Mark's last word. For a moment,
thought of Priss left Joel sick. He thrust the thought aside....

They took him down into the main cabin; Varde ahead, then Joel, and old Aaron close behind,
his hand on Joel's elbow. Priss met them in the after cabin, crouching in a corner, white and
still, her hands at her throat. Her eyes met his for an instant, before Varde led him toward
his own cabin. Aaron, behind, looked toward Priss; and the girl whispered hoarsely:

"Is he--hurt?"

"He is not," said Aaron grimly. "We were most gentle with the man; and he made no struggle
at all...."

Varde thrust Joel into the little cabin where his bunk was; and Joel heard the snick of a new-set
bolt on the outer side of the door. He was alone, bound fast....

Before he left the deck, he had heard Mark cry an order to the man at the wheel. The telltale
in the after cabin ceiling told him the Nathan Ross had changed her course again ... for Mark's
island.... In the face of men, he had held himself steady and calm.... But now, alone in his
cabin, he strained at his bonds, lips cracking over set teeth. He strained and tugged.... Hopeless....

No! Not hopeless! He felt them yield a little, a little more.... Then, with a tiny snap of
sound, the coils were loose, and he shook the cords down over his wrists and hands. He caught
them as they fell across his fingers, lest the sound of their fall might warn Varde, in the
cabin outside his door; and--he was still stupefied by the surprise of this deliverance--he
lifted the broken bonds and examined them....

A single strand had yielded, loosing all the rest. And where it had broken, Joel saw, it had
been sliced all but through, with a keen blade.

Who? His thoughts raced back over the brief minutes of his bondage. Who?

No other but Aaron Burnham could have had the chance and the good will. Old Aaron.... And Aaron's
knives were always razor sharp. Drawn once across the tight-stretched cord....

Aaron had freed him. Aaron....

He remembered something else. Aaron's words to Mark on deck. "I've set the bolt on his cabin
door...."

Aaron had set the new bolt that was the only bar between him and the after cabin, where Varde
stood watch. Aaron had set the bolt; and Aaron had cut his bonds. Therefore--the bolt must
be flimsy, easily forced away. That would be Aaron's plan. A single thrust would open the way....

He turned toward the door; then caught himself, drew back, dropped on the bunk and lay there,
planning what he must do.

XV

The discovery of Aaron's loyalty had been immensely heartening to Joel. If Aaron were loyal,
there might be others.... Must be.... Not all men are false....

He wondered who they would be; he went over the men, one by one, from mate to humblest foremast
hand. Finch and Varde were surely against him. Old Hooper--he and Aaron were cronies, and the
other mates had left Hooper somewhat out of their movements thus far. Old Hooper might be,
give him his chance, on Joel's side....

Old Hooper, and Aaron. Two. Dick Morrell? A boy, hot with the wonder and glamor of Mark's tale.
Easily swung to either side. Joel thought he would not swing too desperately to the lawless
side. But--he could not be counted on. What others were there?

Joel had brought his own harpooner from the Martin Wilkes. A big Island black. A decent man....
A chance. Besides him, there were three men who had served Asa Worthen long among the foremast
hands. Uncertain quantities. Chances everywhere....

But--he must strike quickly. There was no time to sound them out. When his dinner was brought
at noon, his broken bonds would be discovered. They would be more careful thereafter. Three
hours lay before him....

He set himself to listen with all his ears; to guess at what was going on above decks, and
so choose his moment. He must wait as long as it was safe to wait; he must wait till men's
bloods ran less hot after the crisis of the morning. He must wait till sober second thought
was upon them....

But there was always the chance to fear that Mark might come down. He could not wait too long....

He could hear feet moving on the deck above his head. The Nathan Ross had run into rougher
weather with her change of course; the wind was stiffening, and now and then a whisk of spray
came aboard. He heard Jim Finch's bellowing commands.... Heard Mark's laughter. Mark and Jim
were astern, fairly over his head.

There were men in the main cabin. The scrape of their feet, the murmur of their voices came
to him. Dick Morrell and old Hooper, perhaps....

It was through these men that Joel's moment came. Finch, on deck, shouted down to them....
Mark had decided to shorten sail, ease the strain on the old masts. Joel heard Morrell and
Hooper go up to the deck....

That would mean most of the men aloft.... The decks would be fairly clear. His chance....

He wished he could know where Varde sat; but he could not be sure of that, and he could not
wait to guess by listening. He caught up a blanket from his bunk, held it open in his hands,
drew back--and threw himself against the cabin door.

It opened so easily that he overbalanced, all but fell. The screws had been set in punch holes
so large that the threads scarce took hold at all. Joel stumbled out--saw Varde on the cushioned
bench which ran across the stern. The mate was reading, a book from Joel's narrow shelf. At
sight of Joel, he was for an instant paralyzed with surprise....

That instant was long enough for Joel. He swept the blanket down upon the man, smothering his
cries with fold on fold; and he grappled Varde, and crushed him, and beat at his head with
his fists until the mate's spasmodic struggles slackened. Priss had heard the sounds of combat,
swept out of her cabin, bent above them. He looked up and saw her; and he said quietly:

"Get back into your place."

She cried pitifully: "I want to help. Please...."

He shook his head. "This is my task. Quick."

She fled....

He lifted Varde and carried him back to the cabin where he himself had been captive; and there,
with the cords that had bound his own arms, he bound Varde, wrist and ankle; and he stripped
away the blanket, and stuffed into Varde's mouth a heavy, woolen sock, and tied it there with
a handkerchief.... Varde's eyes flickered open at the last; and Joel said to him:

"I must leave you here for the present. You will do well to lie quietly."

He left the man lying on the floor, and went out into the after cabin and salvaged the bolt
and screws that had been sent flying by his thrust. He put the bolt back in place, pushed the
screws into the holes, bolted the door.... No trace remained of his escape....

Priss stood in her own door. Without looking at her, he opened the door into the main cabin.
That apartment was empty, as he had expected. The companion stair led to the deck....

But he could not go up that way. Mark and Jim Finch were within reach of the top of the stair;
he would be at a disadvantage, coming up to them from below. He must reach the deck before
they saw him.

He crossed the cabin to a lockfast, and opened it, and took out the two pairs of heavy ship's
irons that lay there. Spring handcuffs that locked without a key.... He put one pair in each
pocket of his coat.

There was a seldom used door that opened from the main cabin into a passage which led in turn
to the steerage where the harpooners slept. Joel stepped to this door, slipped the bolt, entered
the passage, and closed the door behind him.

It was black dark, where he stood. The passage was unlighted; and the swinging lamp in the
steerage did not send its rays this far. The Nathan Ross was heeling and bucking heavily in
the cross seas, and Joel chose his footing carefully, and moved forward along the passage,
his hands braced against the wall on either side. The way was short, scarce half a dozen feet;
but he was long in covering the distance, and he paused frequently to listen. He had no wish
to encounter the harpooners in their narrow quarters....

He heard, at last, the muffled sound of a snore; and so covered the last inches of his way
more quickly. When he was able to look into the place, he saw that two of the men were in their
bunks, apparently asleep. The black whom he had brought from the Nathan Ross was not there.
Joel was glad to think he was on deck; glad to hope for the chance of his help....

With steps so slow he seemed like a shadow in the semi-darkness, he crossed to the foot of
the ladder that led to the deck. The men in their bunks still slept. He began to climb....
The ship was rolling heavily, so that he was forced to grip the ladder tightly.... One of the
sleepers stirred, and Joel froze where he stood, and watched, and waited for endless seconds
till the man became quiet once more.

He climbed till his head was on a level with the deck still hidden by the sides of the scuttle
at the top of the ladder. And there he poised himself; for the last steps to the deck must
be made in a single rush, so quickly that interference would be impossible....

He made them; one ... three.... He stood upon the deck, looked aft....

