 Macumer, a leading Spanish revolutionist of 1823, saw fortune turn against him. Ferdinand VII.,
once more enthroned, recognized him as constitutional minister, but never forgave him for
his assumption of power. Seeing his property confiscated and himself banished, he took refuge in
Paris, where he took poor lodgings on rue Hillerin-Bertin and began to teach Spanish for a living,
notwithstanding he was Baron de Sardaigne with large estates and a place at Sassari. Macumer
also suffered many heart-aches.

He vainly loved a woman who was beloved by his own brother. His brother's passion being reciprocated,
Macumer sacrificed himself for their happiness. Under the simple name of Henarez, Macumer was
the instructor of Armande-Marie-Louise de Chaulieu, whom he did not woo in vain. He married her,
March, 1825.

At various times the baron occupied or owned Chantepleurs, a chateau Nivernais, a house on
rue du Bac, and La Crampade, Louis de l'Estorate's residence in Provence. The foolish, annoying
jealousy of Madame de Macumer embittered his life and was responsible
for his physical break-down.

Idolized by his wife, in spite of his marked plainness, he died in
1829. [Letters of Two brides.] MACUMER (Baronne de).

(See Gaston,
Madame Marie.) MADELEINE, first name of Madeleine Vinet, by which
she was called while employed as a domestic.

[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. Cousin Pons.] MADOU (Angelique),
woman of the masses, fat but spry; although ignorant, very shrewd
in her business of selling dried fruit.

At the beginning of the Restoration she lived in Paris on rue Perrin-Gasselin,
where she fell prey to the usurer Bidault-- Gigonnet.

Angelique Madou at first dealt harshly with Cesar Birotteau, when he was unable to pay his debts; but
she congratulated him, later on, when, as a result of his revived fortunes, the perfumer settled every
obligation. Angelique Madon had a little godchild, in whom she occasionally showed much interest.
[Cesar Birotteau.] MAGNAN (Prosper), of Beauvais, son of a widow, chief-surgeon's assistant; executed
in 1799 at Andernach on the banks of the Rhine, being the innocent victim of circumstantial
evidence, which condemned him for the double crime of robbery and
murder-- this crime having, in reality, been committed by his comrade,
Jean-Frederic-Taillefer, who escaped punishment.

[The Red
Inn.] MAGNAN (Madame), mother of the preceding, lived at Beauvais, where she died a short time after
her son's death, and previous to the arrival of Hermann, who was bearing
her a letter from Prosper. [The Red Inn.] MAGUS (Elie), Flemish Jew,
Dutch-Belgian descent, born in 1770. He lived now at Bordeaux, now at
Paris; was a merchant of costly articles, such as pictures, diamonds
and curiosities.

By his influence Madame Luigi Porta, born Ginevra di Piombo, obtained
from a print-seller a position as colorist.

Madame Evangelista engaged him to estimate the value of her jewels. He bought a copy of Rubens
from Joseph Bridau and some Flemish subjects from Pierre Grassou,
selling them later to Vervelli as genuine Rembrandts or Teniers;
he arranged for the marriage of the artist with the cork-maker's
daughter.

Very wealthy, and having retired from business in 1835, he left his
house on the Boulevard Bonne-Nouvelle to occupy an old dwelling on
Chaussee des Minimes, now called rue de Bearn.

He took with him his treasures, his daughter, Noemi, and Abramko
as a guard for his property. This is what we call piracy, and a pirate, you know,
is thought to be a very wicked man.

But when Columbus lived, men did not think it was so very wicked to be a sort of half-way pirate,
although they did know that they would be killed if they were caught. So almost every sailor
was about half pirate. Every boy who lived near the seashore and saw the ships and the sailors,
felt as though he would like to sail away to far-off lands and see all the strange sights and
do all the brave things that the sailors told about. Many of them even said they would like
to be pirates and fight with other sailors, and show how strong and brave and plucky they could be.

Columbus was one of these. He was what is called an adventurous boy. He did not like to stay
quietly at home with his father and comb out the tangled wool. He thought it would be much
nicer to sail away to sea and be a brave captain or a rich merchant.

When he was about fourteen years old he really did go to sea. There was a captain of a sailing
vessel that sometimes came to Genoa who had the same last name--Columbus. He was no relation,
but the little Christopher somehow got acquainted with him among the wharves of Genoa. Perhaps
he had run on errands for him, or helped him with some of the sea-charts he knew so well how
to draw. At any rate he sailed away with this Captain Columbus as his cabin boy, and went to
the wars with him and had quite an exciting life for a boy.

Sailors are very fond of telling big stories about their own adventures or about far-off lands
and countries. Columbus, listened to many of these sea-stories, and heard many wonderful things
about a very rich land away to the East that folks called Cathay.

If you look in your geographies you will not find any such place on the map as Cathay, but
you will find China, and that was what men in the time of Columbus called Cathay. They told
very big stories about this far-off Eastern land. They said its kings lived in golden houses,
that they were covered with pearls and diamonds, and that everybody there was so rich that
money was as plentiful as the stones in the street.

This, of course, made the sailors and storekeepers, who were part pirate, very anxious to go
to Cathay and get some of the gold and jewels and spices and splendor for themselves. But Cathay
was miles and miles away from Italy and Spain and France and England. It was away across the
deserts and mountains and seas and rivers, and they had to give it up because they could not
sail there.

At last a man whose name was Marco Polo, and who was a very brave and famous traveler, really
did go there, in spite of all the trouble it took. And when he got back his stories were so
very surprising that men were all the more anxious to find a way to sail in their ships to
Cathay and see it for themselves.

But of course they could not sail over the deserts and mountains, and they were very much troubled
because they had to give up the idea, until the son of the king of Portugal, named Prince Henry,
said he believed that ships could sail around Africa and so get to India or "the Indies" as
they called that land, and finally to Cathay.

Just look at your map again and see what a long, long voyage it would be to sail from Spain
and around Africa to India, China and Japan. It is such a long sail that, as you know, the
Suez Canal was dug some twenty years ago so that ships could sail through the Mediterranean
Sea and out into the Indian Ocean, and not have to go away around Africa.

But when Columbus was a boy it was even worse than now, for no one really knew how long Africa
was, or whether ships really could sail around it. But Prince Henry said he knew they could,
and he sent out ships to try. He lived with his widowed mother in the busiest part of Marais on rue
du Roi-Dore. M. and Madame Rabourdin received and gave him assistance
by preparing a copy of a rare and mysterious government work.

The discovery of this book by Dutocq unfortunately resulted in the discharge of both chief and
clerk.

[The Government Clerks.] LA ROCHE-GUYON (De), the eldest of one of the oldest families in the
section of Orne, at one time connected with the Esgrignons, who visited them frequently. In 1805
he sued vainly, through Maitre Chesnel, for the hand of Armande d'Esgrignon.

[Jealousies of a Country Town.] LA ROCHE-HUGON (Martial de), shrewd,
turbulent and daring Southerner, had a long and brilliant administrative
career in politics.

Even in 1809 the Council of State employed him as one of the masters of petitions. Napoleon Bonaparte was patron
of this young Provencal. Also, in November of the same year, Martial was invited to the fete given by
Malin de Gondreville-- a celebration which the Emperor was vainly expected to attend. Montcornet
was present, also the Duchesse de Lansac, who succeeded in bringing
about a reconciliation between her nephew and niece, M. and Madame
de Soulanges.

M. de la Roche-Hugon's mistress, Madame de Vaudremont, was also in attendance at this ball. For five
years he had enjoyed a close friendship with Montcornet, and this bond was lasting. In 1815
the securing of Aigues for Montcornet was undertaken by Martial, who had served as prefect under
the Empire, and retained his office under the Bourbons. Thus from 1821 to 1823 M. de la Roche-Hugon
was at the head of the department in Bourgogne, which contained Aigues and Ville-aux-Fayes, M.
des Lupeaulx's sub-prefecture. A dismissal from this office, to which the Comte de Casteran succeeded,
threw Martial into the opposition among the Liberalists, but this
was for a short time, as he soon accepted an embassy.

Louis Philippe's government honored M. de la Roche-Hugon by making him minister, ambassador, and
counselor of state. Eugene de Rastignac, who had favored him before, now gave him one of his sisters
in marriage. Several children resulted from this union. Martial continued to remain influential
and associated with the popular idols of the time, M. and Madame
de l'Estorade.

His relations with the national chief of police, Corentin, in 1840, were also indicative of his standing.
As a deputy the next year M. de la Roche-Hugon probably filled the directorship in the War Department,
left vacant by Hector Hulot. (See Rastignac, Mesdemoiselles de.) LA RODIERE (Stephanie de).
(See Nueil, Madame Gaston de.) LA ROULIE (Jacquin), chief huntsman of the Prince de Cadignan,
took part with his master, in 1829, in the exciting hunt given in Normandie, in which as spectators
or riders were the Mignons de la Bastie, the Maufrigneuses, the Herouvilles,
M. de Canalis, Eleonore de Chaulieu and Ernest de la Briere.

Jacquin la Roulie was at that time an old man and a firm believer
in the French school; he had an argument with John Barry, another
guest, who defended English principles.

[Modeste Mignon.] LARSONNIERE (M. and Madame de), formed the aristocracy of the little city
of Saumur, of which Felix Grandet had been mayor in the years just previous to the First Empire. [Eugenie
Grandet.] LA THAUMASSIERE (De), grandson of the Berry historian, a young land-owner, the dandy
of Sancerre. While present in Madame de la Baudraye's parlor, he had the misfortune to yawn during an
exposition which she was giving, for the fourth time, of Kant's philosophy; he was henceforth
looked upon as a man completely lacking in understanding and in soul.

[The Muse of the Department.] LATOURNELLE (Simon-Babylas), born in 1777,
was notary at Havre, where he had bought the most extensive practice
for one hundred thousand francs, lent him in 1817 by Charles Mignon
de la Bastie.

He married Mademoiselle Agnes Labrosse, having by her one son, Exupere.

He remained the intimate friend of his benefactors, the Mignons. [Modeste Mignon.] LATOURNELLE (Madame),
wife of the preceding, born Agnes Labrosse, daughter to the clerk of the
court of first instance at Havre. Tall and ungainly of figure, a
bourgeoise of rather ancient tastes, at the same time good-hearted,
she had somewhat late in life, by her marriage, a son whose given
name was Exupere.

She entertained Jean Butscha.

Madame Latournelle was a frequent visitor of the Mignons de la Bastie, and at all times testified her
affection for them. [Modeste Mignon.] LATOURNELLE (Exupere), son of the preceding couple,
went with them to visit the Mignons de la Bastie, towards the end of the Restoration. He was then
a tall, insignificant young man.

[Modeste Mignon.] LAUDIGEOIS, married, head of a family, typical
petty bourgeois, employed during the Restoration by the mayor of
the eleventh or twelfth ward in Paris, a position from which he was
unjustly expelled by Colleville in 1840.

In 1824 an intimate neighbor of the Phellions, and exactly like them in morals, he attended their
informal card-party on Thursday evening. Laudigeois, introduced by the Phellions, finally became a
close friend of the Thuilliers, during the reign of Louis Philippe. His civil statistical record
should be corrected, as his name in several of the papers is spelled
Leudigeois.

[The Government Clerks. The Middle Classes.] LAURE, given name of a sweet and charming young peasant
girl, who took Servin's course in painting at Paris in 1815. She protected
Ginevra di Piombo, an affectionate friend, who was her elder.

[The Vendetta.] LAURENT, a Savoyard, Antoine's nephew; husband of
an expert laundress of laces, mender of cashmeres, etc. In 1824 he
lived with them and their relative, Gabriel, in Paris.

In the evening he was door-keeper in a subsidized theatre; in the daytime he was usher in the Bureau
of Finance. In this position Laurent was first to learn of the worldly
and official success attained by Celestine Rabourdin, when she attempted
to have Xavier appointed successor to Flamet de la Billardiere.

[The Government Clerks.] LAURENT, Paris, 1815, M. Henri de Marsay's servant, equal to the Frontins
of the old regime; was able to obtain for his master, through the mail-carrier, Moinot, the address
of Paquita Valdes and other information about her. [The Thirteen.] LAVIENNE, Jean-Jules Popinot's
servant in Paris, rue du Fouarre, 1828; "made on purpose for his master," whom he aided in his
active philanthropy by redeeming and renewing pledges given to the
pawnbrokers.

He took the place of his master in Palais de Justice during the latter's
absence.

[The Commission in Lunacy.] LAVRILLE, famous naturalist, employed
in the Jardin des Plantes, and dwelling on rue de Buffon, Paris,
1831.

Consulted
as to the shagreen, the enlargement of which was so passionately desired by Raphael de Valentin,
Lavrille could do nothing more than talk on the subject and sent the young man to Planchette,
the professor of mechanics. Lavrille, "the grand mogul of zoology," reduced science to a catalogue
of names. He was then preparing a monograph on the duck family. [The Magic
Skin.] LEBAS (Joseph), born in 1779, a penniless orphan, he was assisted
and employed in Paris, first by the Guillaumes, cloth-merchants on
rue Saint-Denis, at the Cat and Racket.

Under the First Empire he married Virginie, [*] the elder of his
employer's daughters, although he was in love with the younger, Mademoiselle
Augustine.

He succeeded the Guilliaumes in business. [At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.] During the first
years of the Restoration he presided over the Tribunal of Commerce. Joseph Lebas, who was intimate
with M. and Madame Birotteau, attended their ball with his wife.

He also strove for Cesar's rehabilitation.

[Cesar Birotteau.] During the reign of Louis Philippe, having for an intimate friend Celestin Crevel,
he retired from business and lived at Corbeil. [Cousin Betty.] [*] The names of Virginie and
Augustine are confused in the original text. LEBAS (Madame Joseph), wife of the preceding, born Virginie
Guillaume in 1784, elder of Guillaume's daughters, lived at the Cat
and Racket; the counterpart, physically and morally, of her mother.

Under the First Empire, at the parish
church of Saint-Leu, Paris, her marriage took place on the same day
that her younger sister, Augustine de Sommervieux, was wedded.

The love which she felt for her husband was not reciprocated. She viewed with indifference her
sister's misfortunes, became intimate in turn with the Birotteaus and the Crevels; and, having
retired from business, spent her last days in the middle of Louis Philippe's reign at Corbeil.
[At the Sign of the Cat and Racket. Cesar Birotteau. Cousin Betty.] LEBAS, probably a son of
the preceding.

In 1836 first assistant of the king's solicitor at Sancerre; two years later counselor to the
court of Paris. In 1838 he would have married Hortense Hulot if Crevel had not prevented the
match. [The Muse of the Department. Cousin Betty.] LEBOEUF, for a long time connected with the
prosecuting attorney at Nantes, being president of the court there
in the latter part of Louis Philippe's reign.

He was well acquainted with the Camusot de Marvilles, and knew Maitre Fraisier, who claimed his
acquaintance in 1845. [Cousin Pons.] LEBRUN, sub-lieutenant, then captain in the Seventy-second demi-brigade,
commanded by Hulot during the war against the Chouans in 1799. [The Chouans.] LEBRUN, division-chief
in the War Department in 1838. Marneffe was one of his employes. [Cousin Betty.] LEBRUN, protege,
friend and disciple of Doctor Bouvard.

Being a physician at the prison in May, 1830, he was called upon
to establish the death of Lucien de Rubempre.

[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] In 1845 Lebrun was chief physician of the Parisian boulevard theatre,
managed by Felix Gaudissart. [Cousin Pons.] LECAMUS (Baron de Tresnes), counselor to the royal
court of Paris, lived, in 1816, rue Chanoinesse, with Madame de la Chanterie. Known there by
the name of Joseph, he was a Brother of Consolation in company with Montauran, Alain, Abbe de
Veze and Godefroid.

[The Seamy Side of History.] LECHESNEAU, through the influence of Cambaceres and Bonaparte, appointed
attorney-general in Italy, but as a result of his many disreputable love-affairs, despite his
real capacity for office-holding, he was forced to give up his position.

Between
the end of the Republic and the beginning of the Empire he became
head of the grand jury at Troyes.

Lechesneau, who had been repeatedly bribed by Senator Malin, had to occupy himself in 1806 with the
Hauteserre-Simeuse-Michu affair. [The Gondreville Mystery.] LECLERQ, native of Bourgogne, commissioner
for the vinters in the department to which Ville-aux-Fayes, a sub-prefecture
of this same province, belonged.

He was of service to Gaubertin, Madame Soudry, also Rigon, perhaps, and was in turn under obligations
to them. Having arranged a partnership he founded the house of "Leclerq& Company," on Quai de
Bethune, Ile Saint-Louis, Paris, in competition with the well-known
house of Grandet.

In 1815 Leclerq married Jenny Gaubertin.

As a banker he dealt in wine commissions, and became regent of the National Bank. During the Restoration
he represented as deputy on the Left Centre the district of Ville-aux-Fayes,
and not far from the sub-prefecture, in 1823, bought a large estate,
which brought thirty thousand francs rental.

[The Peasantry.] LECLERQ (Madame), wife of the preceding, born Jenny Gaubertin, eldest daughter
of Gaubertin, steward of Aigues in Bourgogne, received two hundred
thousand francs as dowry.

[The Peasantry.] LECLERQ, brother-in-law of the preceding, during the Restoration was special collector
at Ville-aux-Fayes, Bourgogne, and joined the other members of his family in worrying, more or less,
the Comte de Montcornet. [The Peasantry.] LECOCQ, a trader, whose failure
was very cleverly foretold by Guillaume at the Cat and Racket.

This failure was Guillaume's Battle of Marengo.

[At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.] LEFEBVRE, Louis Lambert's uncle, was successively oratorian, sworn
priest and cure of Mer, a small city near Blois. Had a delightful disposition and a heart of rare
tenderness. He exercised a watchful care over the childhood and youth
of his remarkable nephew.

The Abbe Lefebvre later on lived at Blois, the Restoration having
caused him to lose his position.

In 1822, under form of a letter sent from Croisic, he was the first to receive information concerning
the Cambremers. The next year, having become much older in appearance,
while riding in a stage-coach he told of the frightful state of suffering,
sometimes mingled with remarkable displays of intellect, which preceded
the death of Louis Lambert.

[Louis Lambert. A Seaside Tragedy.] LEFEBVRE (Robert), well-known French painter of the First
Empire. In 1806, at the expense of Laurence de Cinq-Cygne, he painted Michu's portrait. [The Gondreville
Mystery.] Among the many paintings executed by Robert Lefebvre is
a portrait of Hulot d'Ervy dressed in the uniform of chief commissary
of the Imperial Guard.

This is dated 1810. [Cousin Betty.] LEGANES (Marquis de), Spanish grandee, married, father of two daughters,
Clara and Mariquita, and of three sons, Juanito, Philippe and Manuel. He manifested a spirit of
patriotism in the war carried on against the French during the Empire
and died then under the most tragic circumstances, in which Mariquita
was an unwilling abettor.

The Marquis de Leganes died by the hand of his eldest son, who had been condemned to be his executioner.
[El Verdugo.] LEGANES (Marquise de), wife of the preceding and condemned to die with the other members
of the family by the hand of her eldest son. She spared him the necessity of doing this terrible
deed of war by committing suicide.

[El Verdugo.] LEGANES (Clara de), daughter of the preceding couple; also shared the condemnation of
the Marquis de Leganes and died by the hand of Juanito. [El Verdugo.] LEGANES (Mariquita de), sister
of the preceding, had rescued Major Victor Marchand of the French
infantry from danger in 1808.

In testimony of his gratitude he was able to obtain pardon for one member of the Leganes family,
but with the horribly cruel provision that the one spared should
become executioner of the rest of the family.

[El Verdugo.]
LEGANES (Juanito de), brother of the last-named, born in 1778. Small
and of poor physique, of gentlemanly manners, yet proud and scornful,
he was gifted with that delicacy of feeling which in olden times
caused Spanish gallantry to be so well known.

Upon the earnest request of his proud-spirited family he consented
to execute his father, his two sisters and his two brothers.

Juanito only was saved from death, that his family might not become extinct. [El Verdugo.] LEGANES
(Philippe de), younger brother of the preceding, born in 1788, a
noble Spaniard condemned to death; executed by his elder brother in
1808, during the war waged against the French.

[El Verdugo.] LEGANES (Manuel de), born in 1800, youngest of the five
Leganes children, suffered, in 1808, during the war waged by the
French in Spain, the fate of his father, the marquis, and of his elder
brother and sisters.

The youngest scion of this noble family died by the hand of Juanito de Leganes. [El Verdugo.]
LEGER, extensive farmer of Beaumont-sur-Oise, married daughter of Reybert, Moreau's successor
as exciseman of the Presles estate, belonging to the Comte de Serizy;
had by his wife a daughter who became, in 1838, Madame Joseph Bridau.

[A Start in Life.] LEGRELU, a bald-headed man, tall and good-looking; in 1840 became a vintner in Paris
on rue des Canettes, corner of rue Guisarde. Toupillier, Madame Cardinal's uncle, the "pauper of Saint-Sulpice,"
was his customer. [The Middle Classes.] LELEWEL, a nineteenth century revolutionist, head of the Polish
Republican party in Paris in 1835. One of his friends was Doctor
Moise Halpersohn.

[The Imaginary Mistress. The Seamy Side of History.] LEMARCHAND. (See Tours, Minieres des.)
LEMIRE, professor of drawing in the Imperial Lyceum, Paris, in 1812; foresaw the talent of Joseph
Bridau, one of his pupils, for painting, and threw the future artist's
mother into consternation by telling her of this fact.

[A Bachelor's Establishment.] LEMPEREUR, in 1819, Chaussee-d'Antin,
Paris, clerk to Charles Claparon, at that time "straw-man" of Tillet,
Roguin& Company.

[Cesar Birotteau.] LEMPRUN, born in 1745, son-in-law of Galard, market-gardener
of Auteuil.

Employed, in turn, in the houses of Thelusson and of Keller in Paris, he was probably the first
messenger in the service of the Bank of France, having entered that establishment when it was founded.
He met Mademoiselle Brigitte Thuillier during this period of his life, and in 1814 gave Celeste,
his only daughter, in marriage to Brigitte's brother, Louis-Jerome
Thuillier.

M. Lemprun died the year following. [The Middle Classes.] LEMPRUN (Madame), wife of the preceding,
daughter of Galard, the market-gardener of Auteuil, mother of one
child-- Madame Celeste Thuillier.

She lived in the village of Auteuil from 1815 until the time of her
death in 1829.

She reared
Celeste Phellion, daughter of L.-J. Thuillier and of Madame de Colleville. Madame Lemprun left
a small fortune inherited from her father, M. Galard, which was administered
by Brigitte Thuillier.

This Lemprun estate consisted of twenty thousand francs, saved by the strictest economy, and of
a house which was sold for twenty-eight thousand francs. [The Middle Classes.] LEMULQUINIER,
a native of Flanders, owed his name to the linen-yarn dealers of that province,
who are called mulquiniers.

He lived in Douai, was the valet of Balthazar Claes, and encouraged
and aided his master in his foolish investigations, despite the extreme
coldness of his own nature and the opposition of Josette, Martha,
and the women of the Claes family.

Lemulquinier even went so far as to give all his personal property to M. Claes. [The Quest of
the Absolute.] LENONCOURT (De), born in 1708, marshal of France, marquis at first, then duke,
was the friend of Victor-Amedee de Verneuil, and adopted Marie de Verneuil, the acknowledged
natural daughter of his old comrade, when the latter died. Suspected unjustly of being this young
girl's lover, the septuagenarian refused to marry her, and leaving
her behind he changed his place of residence to Coblentz.

[The Chouans.] LENONCOURT (Duc de), father of Madame de Mortsauf. The Moors were driven out of Spain and
Columbus's chance had come.

So he appeared before Queen Isabella and her chief men and told them again of all his plans
and desires. The queen and her advisers sat in a great room in that splendid Alhambra I have
told you of. King Ferdinand was not there. He did not believe in Columbus and did not wish
to let him have either money, ships or sailors to lose in such a foolish way. But as Columbus
stood before her and talked so earnestly about how he expected to find the Indies and Cathay
and what he hoped to bring away from there, Queen Isabella listened and thought the plan worth
trying.

Then a singular thing happened. You would think if you wished for something very much that
you would give up a good deal for the sake of getting it. Columbus had worked and waited for
seventeen years. He had never got what he wanted. He was always being disappointed. And yet,
as he talked to the queen and told her what he wished to do, he said he must have so much as
a reward for doing it that the queen and her chief men were simply amazed at his--well, what
the boys to-day call "cheek"--that they would have nothing to do with him. This man really
is crazy, they said. This poor Genoese sailor comes here without a thing except his very odd
ideas, and almost "wants the earth" as a reward. This is not exactly what they said, but it
is what they meant.

His few friends begged him to be more modest. Do not ask so much, they said, or you will get
nothing. But Columbus was determined. I have worked and waited all these years, he replied.
I know just what I can do and just how much I can do for the king and queen of Spain. They
must pay me what I ask and promise what I say, or I will go somewhere else. Go, then! said
the queen and her advisers. And Columbus turned his back on what seemed almost his last hope,
mounted his mule and rode away.

Then something else happened. As Columbus rode off to find the French king, sick and tired
of all his long and useless labor at the Spanish court, his few firm friends there saw that,
unless they did something right away, all the glory and all the gain of this enterprise Columbus
had taught them to believe in would be lost to Spain. So two of them, whose names were Santangel
and Quintanilla, rushed into the queen's room and begged her, if she wished to become the greatest
queen in Christendom, to call back this wandering sailor, agree to his terms and profit by
his labors.

What if he does ask a great deal? they said. He has spent his life thinking his plan out; no
wonder he feels that he ought to have a good share of what he finds. What he asks is really
small compared with what Spain will gain. The war with the Moors has cost you ever so much;
your money-chests are empty; Columbus will fill them up. The people of Cathay are heathen;
Columbus will help you make them Christian men. The Indies and Cathay are full of gold and
jewels; Columbus will bring you home shiploads of treasures. Spain has conquered the Moors;
Columbus will help you conquer Cathay.

In fact, they talked to Queen Isabella so strongly and so earnestly, that she, too, became
excited over this chance for glory and riches that she had almost lost, Quick! send for Columbus.
Call him back! she said. I agree to his terms. If King Ferdinand cannot or will not take the
risk, I, the queen, will do it all. Quick! do not let the man get into France. After him. Bring
him back! 

Jilted by a mason, Dallot, who had promised to marry her, Genevieve lost what little sense love
had aroused in her.

[Farewell.] GENOVESE, tenor at the Fenice theatre, Venice, in 1820.

Born at Bergamo in 1797. Pupil of Veluti. Having long loved La Tinti, he sang outrageously in her
presence, so long as she resisted his advances, but regained all his powers after she yielded
to him.

[Massimilla Doni.] In the winter of 1823-24, at the home of Prince Gandolphini, in Geneva, Genovese
sang with his mistress, an exiled Italian prince, and Princess Gandolphini, the famous quartette,
"Mi manca la voce."

[Albert Savarus.] GENTIL, old valet in service of Mme. de Bargeton,
during the Restoration.

During the summer of 1821, with Albertine and Lucien de Rubempre, he accompanied his mistress to
Paris.

[A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] GENTILLET, sold in 1835 an old diligence to Albert Savarus
when the latter was leaving Besancon after the visit on the part
of Prince Soderini.

[Albert Savarus.] GENTILLET (Madame), maternal grandmother of Felix Grandet. She died in 1806 leaving
considerable property. In Grandet's "drawing room" at Saumur was a pastel of Mme. Gentillet,
representing her as a shepherdess.

[Eugenie Grandet.] GEORGES, confidential valet of Baron de Nucingen,
at Paris, time of Charles X. Knew of his aged master's love affairs and
aided or thwarted him at will.

[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] GERARD (Francois-Pascal-Simon,
Baron), celebrated painter-- 1770-1837-- procured for Joseph Bridau
in 1818 two copies of Louis XVIII.'s portrait which were worth to
the beginner, then very poor, a thousand francs, a tidy sum for the
Bridau family.

[A Bachelor's Establishment.] The Parisian salon of Gerard, much sought
after, had a rival at Chaussee-d'Antin in that of Mlle. de Touches.
[Beatrix.] GERARD, adjutant-general of the Seventy-second demi-brigade,
commanded by Hulot.

A careful education had developed a superior intellect in Gerard.
He was a staunch Republican. Killed by the Chouan, Pille-Miche, at
Vivetiere, December 1799.

[The Chouans.] GERARD (Gregoire), born in 1802, probably in Limousin.

Protestant of somewhat uncouth exterior, son of a journeyman carpenter who died when rather young; godson
of F. Grossetete. From the age of twelve the banker had encouraged him in the study of the exact
sciences for which he had natural aptitude.

Studied at Ecole Polytechnique from nineteen to twenty-one; then entered as a pupil of engineering
in the National School of Roads and Bridges, from which he emerged in 1826 and stood the examinations
for ordinary engineer two years later. He was cool-headed and warm-hearted.
He became disgusted with his profession when he ascertained its many
limitations, and he plunged into the July (1830) Revolution.

He was probably on the point of adopting the Saint-Simonian doctrine, when M. Grossetete prevailed
upon him to take charge of some important works on the estate of Mme. Pierre Graslin in Haute-Vienne.
Gerard wrought wonders aided by Fresquin and other capable men. He became mayor of Montegnac in
1838. Mme. Graslin died about 1844. Gerard followed out her final wishes, and lived with her children,
assuming guardianship of Francis Graslin.

Three months later, again furthering the desires of the deceased, Gerard married a native girl, Denise
Tascheron, the sister of a man who had been executed in 1829. [The Country Parson.] GERARD (Madame Gregoire),
wife of foregoing, born Denise Tascheron, of Montegnac, Limousin; youngest child of a rather
large family. She lavished her sisterly affection on her brother, the condemned Tasheron, visiting
him in prison and softening his savage nature. With the aid of another brother, Louis-Marie, she
made away with certain compromising clues of her eldest brother's crime, and restored the stolen
money, afterwards she emigrated to America, where she became wealthy.

Becoming homesick she returned to Montegnac, fifteen years later, where she recognized Francis Graslin,
her brother's natural son, and became a second mother to him when she married the engineer, Gerard.
This marriage of a Protestant with a Catholic took place in 1844. "In grace, modesty, piety and beauty, Mme. Gerard
resembled the heroine of'Edinburgh Prison.'" [The Country Parson.] GERARD (Madame), widow, poor
but honest, mother of several grown-up daughters; kept a furnished
hotel on rue Louis-le-Grand, Paris, about the end of the Restoration.

Being under obligations to Suzanne du Val-Noble-- Mme. Theodore Gaillard-- she sheltered her when
the courtesan was driven away from a fine apartment on rue Saint-Georges, following the ruin and flight
of her lover, Jacques Falleix, the stockbroker. Mme. Gerard was not related to the other Gerards
mentioned above. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] GIARDINI, Neapolitan
cook somewhat aged.

He and
his wife ran a restaurant in rue Froidmanteau, Paris, in 1830-31. He had established, so he said,
three restaurants in Italy: at Naples, Parma and Rome. In the first years of Louis Philippe's
reign, his peculiar cookery was the fare of Paolo Gambara. In 1837 this crank on the subject
of special dishes had fallen to the calling of broken food huckster on rue Froidmanteau. [Gambara.]
GIBOULARD (Gatienne), a very pretty daughter of a wealthy carpenter of Auxerre; vainly desired, about
1823, by Sarcus for wife, but his father, Sarcus the Rich, would
not consent.

Later the social set of Mme. Soudry, the leading one of a neighboring village, dreamed for a moment of
avenging themselves on the people of Aigues by winning over Gatienne
Giboulard.

She could have embroiled M. and Mme. Montcornet, and perhaps even compromised Abbe Brossette.
[The Peasantry.] GIGELMI, Italian orchestra conductor, living in Paris with the Gambaras.
After the Revolution of 1830, he dined at Giardini's on rue Froidmanteau. [Gambara.] GIGONNET.
(See Bidault.) GIGUET (Colonel), native probably of Arcis-sur-Aube,
where he lived after retirement.

One of Mme. Marion's brothers. One of the most highly esteemed officers of the Grand Army. Had
a fine sense of honor; was for eleven years merely captain of artillery; chief of battalion in
1813; major in 1814. On account of devotion to Napoleon he refused to serve the Bourbons after
the first abdication; and he gave such proofs of his fidelity in 1815, that he would have been exiled had
it not been for the Comte de Gondreville, who obtained for him retirement
on half-pay with the rank of colonel.

About 1806 he married one of the daughters of a wealthy Hamburg banker, who gave him three children
and died in 1814.

Between 1818 and 1825 Giguet lost the two younger children, a son
named Simon alone surviving.

A Bonapartist and Liberal, the colonel was, during the Restoration, president of the committee at
Arcis, where he came in touch with Grevin, Beauvisage and Varlet, notables of the same stamp. He
abandoned active politics after his ideas triumphed, and, during the reign of Louis Philippe,
he became a noted horticulturist, the creator of the famous Giguet
rose.

Nevertheless the colonel continued to be the god of his sister's very influential salon where he
appeared at the time of the legislative elections of 1839. In the first part of May of that
year the little old man, wonderfully preserved, presided over an electoral convention at Frappart's,
the candidates in the field being his own son, Simon Giguet, Phileas Beauvisage, and Sallenauve-Dorlange.
[The Member for Arcis.] GIGUET (Colonel), brother of the preceding and of Mme. Marion; was brigadier
of gendarmes at Arcis-sur-Aube in 1803; promoted to a lieutenancy in 1806. As brigadier Giguet was
one of the most experienced men in the service. The commandant of Troyes mentioned him especially
to the two Parisian detectives, Peyrade and Corentin, entrusted with watching the actions of the
Simeuses and the Hauteserres which resulted in the ruin of these young Royalists on account of the pretended
seizure of Gondreville. However, an adroit manoeuvre on the part of Francois Michu at first prevented
Brigadier Giguet from seizing these conspirators whom he had tracked to earth. After his promotion
to lieutenant he succeeded in arresting them. He finally became colonel
of the gendarmes of Troyes, whither Mme. Marion, then Mlle. Giguet,
went with him. He died before his brother and sister, and made her
his heir.

[The Gondreville Mystery.

The Member for Arcis.] GIGUET (Simon), born during the first Empire, the oldest and only surviving child of
Colonel Giguet of the artillery. In 1814 he lost his mother, the daughter of a rich Hamburg banker,
and in 1826 his maternal grandfather who left him an income of two thousand francs, the German having
favored others of the large family. He did not hope for any further inheritance save that of
his father's sister, Mme. Marion, which had been augmented by the
legacy of Colonel Giguet of the gendarmes.

Thus it was that, after studying law with the subprefect Antonin Goulard, Simon Giguet, deprived
of a fortune which at first seemed assured to him, became a simple attorney in the little town
of Arcis, where attorneys are of little service. His aunt's and his father's position fired him
with ambition for a political career. Giguet ogled at the same time for the hand and dowry of
Cecile Beauvisage.

Of mediocre ability; upheld the Left Centre, but failed of election in May, 1839, when he presented
himself as candidate for Arcis-sur-Aube. [The Member for Arcis.] GILET (Maxence), born in 1789.
He passed at Issoudun for the natural son of Lousteau, the sub-delegate.
Others thought him the son of Dr. Rouget, a friend and rival of Lousteau.

In short "fortunately for the child both claimed him"; though he belonged to neither. His true
father was found to be a "charming officer of dragoons in the garrison at Bourges." His mother,
the wife of a poor drunken cobbler of Issoudun, had the marvelous beauty of a Transteverin.
Her husband was aware of his wife's actions and profited by them: through interested motives,
Lousteau and Rouget were allowed to believe whatever they wished about the child's paternity, for which
reason both contributed to the education of Maxence, usually known as Max. In 1806, at the age of
seventeen, Max enlisted in a regiment going to Spain. In 1809 he was left for dead in Portugal in an
English battery; taken by the English and conveyed to the Spanish
prison-hulks at Cabrera.

There he remained from 1810 to 1814.

When he returned to Issoudun his father and his mother had both died in the hospital. On the return
of Bonaparte, Max served as captain in the Imperial Guard. During the second Restoration he
returned to Issoudun and became leader of the "Knights of Idlesse" which were addicted to nocturnal
escapades more or less agreeable to the inhabitants of the town. "Max played at Issoudun a part almost
identical with that of Smith in'The Fair Maid of Perth'; he was the champion of Bonapartism and opposition.
They relied upon him, as the citizens of Perth had relied upon Smith on great occasions." A possible
Caesar Borgia on more extensive ground, Gilet lived very comfortably, although without a personal
income. And that is why Max with certain inherited qualities and defects rashly went to live with
his supposed natural father, Jean-Jacques Rouget, a rich and witless
old bachelor who was under the thumb of a superb servant-mistress,
Flore Brazier, known as La Rabouilleuse.

After 1816 Gilet lorded it over the household; the handsome chap
had won the heart of Mlle.

Brazier. Surrounded by a sort of staff, Maxence contested the important inheritance of Rouget,
maintaining his ground with marvelous skill against the two lawful heirs, Agathe and Joseph Bridau;
and he would have appropriated it but for the intervention of a third heir, Philippe Bridau.
Max was killed in a duel by Philippe Bridau in the early part of December, 1822. [A Bachelor's Establishment.]
GILLE, once printer to the Emperor; owner of script letters which Jerome-Nicolas
Sechard made use of in 1819, claiming for them that they were the
ancestors of the English type of Didot.

[Lost Illusions.] GINA, character in "L'Ambitieux par Amour," autobiographical novel by Albert
Savarus; a sort of "ferocious" Sormano. Represented as a young Sicilian girl, fourteen years old,
in the services of the Gandolphinis, political refugees at Gersau, Switzerland, in 1823. So devoted
as to pretend dumbness on occasion, and to wound more or less seriously the hero of the romance,
Rodolphe, who had secretly entered the Gandolphini home. [Albert Savarus.] GINETTA (La), young
Corsican girl. Very small and slender, but no less clever. Mistress of Theodore Calvi, and an accomplice
in the double crime committed by her lover, towards the end of the Restoration,
when she was able on account of her small size to creep down an open
chimney at the widow Pigeau's, and thus to open the house door for Theodore
who robbed and murdered the two inmates, the widow and the servant.

[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] GIRARD, banker and discounter at Paris during the Restoration;
perhaps also somewhat of a pawnbroker; an acquaintance of Esther
Gobseck's. Like Palma, Werbrust and Gigonnet, he held a number of
notes signed by Maxime de Trailles; and Gobseck who knew it used them
against the count, then the lover of Mme. de Restaud, when Trailles
went to the usurer in rue des Gres and besought assistance in vain.

[Gobseck.] GIRARD (Mother), who ran a little restaurant at Paris in rue de Tournon, prior to
1838, had a successor with whom Godefroid promised to board when he was inspecting the left
bank of the Seine, and trying to aid the Bourlac-Mergis.

[The Seamy Side of History.] GIRARDET, attorney at Besancon, between 1830 and 1840. A talkative
fellow and adherent of Albert Savarus, he followed, probably in the latter's interest, the beginning
of the Watteville suit. When Savarus left Besancon suddenly, Girardet tried to straighten
out his colleague's affairs, and advanced him five thousand francs. [Albert Savarus.] GIRAUD (Leon),
was at Paris in 1821 member of the Cenacle of rue des Quatre-Vents,
presided over by Daniel d'Arthez.

He represented the philosophical element. His "doctrines" predicted the end of Christianity and of
the family. In 1821 he was also in charge of a "grave and dignified" opposition journal. He
became the head of a moral and political school, whose "sincerity atoned for its errors."
[A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] About the same time Giraud frequented the home of the
mother of his friend Joseph Bridau, and was going there at the time
when the painter's elder brother, the Bonapartist Philippe, got into
trouble.

[A Bachelor's Establishment.] The Revolution of July opened the political career of Leon Giraud who became
master of requests in 1832, and afterwards councillor of state. In 1845 Giraud was a member of the
Chamber, sitting in the Left Centre. [The Secrets of a Princess. The Unconscious
Humorists.] GIREL, of Troyes. According to Michu, Girel, a Royalist
like himself, during the first Revolution, played the Jacobin in
the interest of his fortune.

From 1803 to 1806, at any rate, he was in correspondence with the
Strasbourg house of Breintmayer, which dealt with the Simeuse twins
when they were tracked by Bonaparte's police.

[The Gondreville Mystery.] GIRODET (Anne-Louis), celebrated painter, born at Montargis, in 1767,
died at Paris in 1824. Under the Empire he was on friendly terms with his colleague, Theodore de Sommervieux.
One day in the latter's studio he greatly admired a portrait of Augustine
Guillaume and an interior, which he advised him, but in vain not to
exhibit at the Salon, thinking the two works too true to nature to
be appreciated by the public.

[At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.] GIROUD (Abbe), confessor of Rosalie de Watteville at Besancon
between 1830 and 1840. [Albert Savarus.] GIROUDEAU, born about 1774. Uncle of Andoche Finot; began
as simple soldier in the army of Sambre and Meuse; five years master-at-arms in the First Hussars--
army of Italy; charged at Eylau with Colonel Chabert.

He passed into the dragoons of the Imperial Guard, where he was captain in 1815. The Restoration
interrupted his military career. Finot, manager of various Parisian papers and reviews, put him
in charge of the cash and accounts of a little journal devoted to
dramatic news, which he ran from 1821 to 1822.

Giroudeau was also editor, and his duty it was to wage the warfare; beyond that he lived a
gay life. Although on the wrong side of forty and afflicted with catarrh he had for mistress Florentine
Cabirolle of the Gaite. He went with the high-livers-- among others with his former mess-mate Philippe
Bridau, at whose wedding with Flore Brazier he was present in 1824. In November, 1825, Frederic
Marest gave a grand breakfast to Desroches'clerks at the Rocher de Cancale, to which Giroudeau
was invited. All spent the evening with Florentine Cabirolle who entertained them royally but involuntarily
got Oscar Husson into trouble. Ex-Captain Giroudeau bore firearms during the "three glorious days,"
re-entered the service after the accession of citizen royalty and
soon became colonel then general, 1834-35.

At this time he was enabled to satisfy a legitimate resentment against his former friend, Bridau,
and block his advancement. [A Distinguished Provincial at Paris. A Start in Life. A Bachelor's Establishment.]
GIVRY, one of several names of the second son of the Duc de Chaulieu,
who became by his marriage with Madeleine de Mortsauf a Lenoncourt-Givry-Chaulieu.

[Letters of Two Brides.

The Lily of the Valley. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] GOBAIN (Madame Marie), formerly cook
to a bishop; lived during the Restoration in Paris on rue Saint-Maur,
Popinot quarter, under very peculiar circumstances.

She was in the service of Octave de Bauvan. Was the maid and housekeeper of Comtesse Honorine when the
latter left home and became a maker of artificial flowers. Mme. Gobain had been secretly engaged
by M. de Bauvan, who through her was enabled to keep watch over his
wife.

Gobain displayed the greatest loyalty. At one time the comtesse took
the servant's name.

[Honorine.] GOBENHEIM, brother-in-law of Francois and Adolphe Keller,
whose name he added to his own.

About 1819 in Paris he was at first made receiver in the Cesar Birotteau bankruptcy, but was later
replaced by Camusot. [Cesar Birotteau.] Under Louis Philippe, Gobenheim, as broker for the Paris
prosecuting office, invested the very considerable savings of Mme.
Fabien du Ronceret.

[Beatrix.] GOBENHEIM, nephew of Gobenheim-Keller of Paris; young banker of Havre in 1829;
visited the Mignons, but not as a suitor for the heiress'hand. [Modeste Mignon.] GOBET (Madame),
in 1829 at Havre made shoes for Mme. and Mlle. Mignon. Was scolded by the latter for lack of style.
[Modeste Mignon.] GOBSECK (Jean-Esther Van), usurer, born in 1740
at Antwerp of a Jewess and a Dutchman.

Began as a cabin-boy. Was only ten years of age when his mother sent him off to the Dutch possessions in
India. There and in America he met distinguished people, also several corsairs; traveled all
over the world and tried many trades. The passion for money took entire hold of him. Finally he
came to Paris which became the centre of his operations, and established himself on rue des Gres.
There Gobseck, like a spider in his web, crushed the pride of Maxime
de Trailles and brought tears to the eyes of Mme. de Restaud and Jean-Joachim
Goriot-- 1819.

About this same time Ferdinand du Tillet sought out the money-lender to make some deals with him,
and spoke of him as "Gobseck the Great, master of Palma, Gigonnet, Werbrust, Keller and Nucingen."
Gobseck went every evening to the Themis cafe to play dominoes with his friend Bidault-Gigonnet.
In December, 1824, he was found there by Elisabeth Baudoyer, whom
he promised to aid; indeed, supported by Mitral, he was able to influence
Lupeaulx to put in Isidore Baudoyer as chief of division succeeding
La Billardiere.

In 1830, Gobseck, then an octogenarian, died in his wretched hole on rue des Gres though he was enormously
wealthy. Derville received his last wishes. He had obtained a wife for the lawyer and entrusted
him with several confidences.

Fifteen years after the Dutchman's death, he was spoken of on the boulevard as the "Last of the
Romans"-- among the old-fashioned money-lenders like Gigonnet, Chaboisseau,
and Samanon, against whom Lora and Bixiou set the modern Vauvinet.

[Gobseck. A peculiarity of this family-- as well as the Maranas--
that the female side always kept the family name.

Thus Sarah Van Gobseck was the grand-niece of Jean-Esther Van Gobseck. This prostitute, mother
of Esther, who was also a courtesan, was a typical daughter of Paris. She caused the bankruptcy
of Roguin, Birotteau's attorney, and was herself ruined by Maxime de Trailles whom she adored
and maintained when he was a page to Napoleon. She died in a house on Palais-Royal, the victim
of a love-mad captain, December, 1818. The affair created a stir. Juan and Francis Diard had something
to say about it. Esther's name lived after her.

The Paris of the boulevards from 1824 to 1839 often mentioned her prodigal and stormy career. [Gobseck.
For a long time in Paris she followed her mother's calling, and having begun it early in life
she knew its varied phases. Was nick-named "La Torpille." Was for some time one of the "rats" of
the Royal Academy of Music, and numbered among her protectors, Lupeaulx.

In 1823 her reduced circumstances almost forced her to leave Paris
for Issoudun, where, for a machiavellian purpose, Philippe Bridau
would have made her the mistress of Jean-Jacques Rouget.

The affair did not materialize. She went to Mme. Meynardie's house where
she remained till about the end of 1823. One evening, while passing
the Porte-Saint-Martin theatre, she chanced to meet Lucien de Rubempre,
and they loved each other at first sight.

Their passion led into many vicissitudes.

The poet and the ex-prostitute were rash enough to attend an Opera ball together in the winter of
1824.

Unmasked and insulted Esther fled to rue de Langlade, where she lived in dire poverty. The dangerous,
powerful and mysterious protector of Rubempre, Jacques Collin, followed her there, lectured her
and shaped her future life, making her a Catholic, educating her
carefully and finally installing her with Lucien on rue Taitbout,
under the surveillance of Jacqueline Collin, Paccard and Prudence
Servien.

She could go out only at night. Nevertheless, the Baron de Nucingen discovered her and fell madly
in love with her. Jacques Collin profited by the episode; Esther received the banker's attentions,
to the enrichment of Lucien. In 1830 she owned a house on rue Saint-Georges
which had belonged previously to several celebrated courtesans; there
she received Mme. du Val-Noble, Tullia and Florentine-- two dancers,
Fanny Beaupre and Florine-- two actresses.

Her new position resulted in police intervention on the part of Louchard,
Contenson, Peyrade and Corentin. On May 13, 1830, unable longer to endure Nucingen,
La Torpille swallowed a Javanese poison.

She died without knowing that she had fallen heir to seven millions left by her great-grand-uncle.
[Gobseck. The Firm of Nucingen. A Bachelor's Establishment. Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.]
GODAIN, born in 1796, in Burgundy, near Soulanges, Blangy and Ville-aux-Fayes; nephew of one of the masons
who built Mme.

As far as Columbus was concerned he was sure that he had found some one of the outermost islands
of Cipango or Japan. So he dropped his anchors, ordered out his rowboat, and prepared to take
possession of the land in the name of the queen of Spain, who had helped him in his enterprise.

Just why or by what right a man from one country could sail up to the land belonging to another
country and, planting in the ground the flag of his king, could say, "This land belongs to
my king!" is a hard question to answer. But there is an old saying that tells us, Might makes
right; and the servants of the kings and queens--the adventurers and explorers of old--used
to go sailing about the world with this idea in their heads, and as soon as they came to a
land they, had never seen before, up would go their flag, and they would say, This land is
mine and my king's! They would not of course do this in any of the well-known or "Christian
lands" of Europe; but they believed that all "pagan lands" belonged by right to the first European
king whose sailors should discover and claim them.

So Columbus lowered a boat from the Santa Maria, and with two of his chief men and some sailors
for rowers he pulled off toward the island.

But before he did so, he had to listen to the cheers and congratulations of the very sailors
who, only a few days before, were ready to kill him. But, you see, this man whom they thought
crazy had really brought them to the beautiful land, just as he had promised. It does make
such a difference, you know, in what people say whether a thing turns out right or not. 

In 1819 he received a call from a young stranger who came to inform him of the death of Madame
de Montpersan's lover.

[The Message.] MONTPERSAN (Comtesse Juliette de), wife of the preceding, born about 1781, lived at
Montpersan with her family, and while there learned from her lover's
fellow-traveler of the former's death as a result of an overturned
carriage.

The countess rewarded the messenger of misfortune in a delicate manner.

[The Message.] MONTPERSAN (Mademoiselle de), daughter of the preceding couple, was but a child when
the sorrowful news arrived which caused her mother to leave the table. The child, thinking only
of the comical side of affairs, remarked upon her father's gluttony,
suggesting that the countess'abrupt departure had allowed him to break
the rules of diet imposed by her presence.

[The Message.] MONTRIVEAU (General Marquis de), father of Armand
de Montriveau.

Although a knighted chevalier, he continued to hold fast to the exalted manners of Bourgogne, and
scorned the opportunities which rank and wealth had offered in his birth. Being an encyclopaedist
and "one of those already mentioned who served the Republic nobly," Montriveau was killed at Novi
near Joubert's side. [The Thirteen.] MONTRIVEAU (Comte de), paternal uncle of Armand de Montriveau.
Corpulent, and fond of oysters.

Unlike his brother he emigrated, and in his exile met with a cordial
reception by the Dulmen branch of the Rivaudoults of Arschoot, a family
with which he had some relationship.

He died at St. Petersburg. [The Thirteen.] MONTRIVEAU (General Marquis Armand de), nephew of
the preceding and only son of General de Montriveau. As a penniless orphan he was entered
by Bonaparte in the school of Chalons.

He went into the artillery service, and took part in the last campaigns of the Empire, among
others that in Russia. At the battle of Waterloo he received many serious wounds, being then a colonel
in the Guard. Montriveau passed the first three years of the Restoration
far away from Europe.

     He wished to explore the upper sections of Egypt and Central
     Africa. After being made a slave by savages he escaped from their
     hands by a bold ruse and returned to Paris, where he lived on
     rue de Seine near the Chamber of Peers.

Despite his poverty and lack of ambition and influential friends, he was soon promoted to a general's
position. His association with The Thirteen, a powerful and secret band of men, who counted among
their members Ronquerolles, Marsay and Bourignard, probably brought him this unsolicited favor.
This same freemasonry aided Montriveau in his desire to have revenge
on Antoinette de Langeais for her delicate flirtation; also later,
when still feeling for her the same passion, he seized her body from
the Spanish Carmelites.

About the same time the general met, at Madame de Beauseant's, Rastignac, just come to Paris,
and told him about Anastasie de Restaud. Towards the end of 1821, the general met Mesdames d'Espard
and de Bargeton, who were spending the evening at the Opera. Montriveau was the living picture of Kleber,
and in a kind of tragic way became a widower by Antoinette de Langeais. Having become celebrated
for a long journey fraught with adventures, he was the social lion at the time he ran across a
companion of his Egyptian travels, Sixte du Chatelet. Before a select
audience of artists and noblemen, gathered during the first years
of the reign of Louis Philippe at the home of Mademoiselle des Touches,
he told how he had unwittingly been responsible for the vengeance
taken by the husband of a certain Rosina, during the time of the Imperial
wars.

Montriveau, now admitted to the peerage, was in command of a department. At this time, having
become unfaithful to the memory of Antoinette de Langeais, he became enamored of Madame Rogron, born
Bathilde de Chargeboeuf, who hoped soon to bring about their marriage. In 1839, in company with
M. de Ronquerolles, he beame second to the Duc de Rhetore, elder brother of Louise de Chaulieu,
in his duel with Dorlange-Sallenauve, brought about because of Marie Gaston. [The Seamy Side
of History.] MOREAU, born in 1772, son of a follower of Danton, procureur-syndic
at Versailles during the Revolution; was Madame Clapart's devoted
lover, and remained faithful almost all the rest of his life.

After a very adventurous life Moreau, about 1805, became manager of the Presles estate, situated in
the valley of the Oise, which was the property of the Comte de Serizy. He married Estelle, maid
of Leontine de Serizy, and had by her three children. After serving as manager of the estate
for seventeen years, he gave up his position, when his dishonest dealings with Leger were
exposed by Reybert, and retired a wealthy man.

A silly deed of his godson, Oscar Husson, was, more than anything
else, the cause of his dismissal from his position at Presles.

Moreau attained a lofty position under Louis Philippe, having grown wealthy through real-estate,
and became the father-in-law of Constant-Cyr-Melchior de Canalis. At last he became a prominent
deputy of the Centre under the name of Moreau of the Oise. [A Start in Life.] MOREAU (Madame Estelle),
fair-skinned wife of the preceding, born of lowly origin at Saint-Lo, became maid to Leontine
de Serizy. Her fortune made, she became overbearing and received Oscar Husson, son of Madame Clapart
by her first husband, with unconcealed coldness. She bought the flowers for her coiffure from Nattier,
and, wearing some of them, she was seen, in the autumn of 1822, by Joseph Bridau and Leon de
Lora, who had just arrived from Paris to do some decorating in the chateau at Serizy. [A Start in Life.]
MOREAU (Jacques), eldest of the preceding couple's three children,
was the agent between his mother and Oscar Husson at Presles. [A Start
in Life.] MOREAU, the best upholsterer in Alencon, rue de la Porte-de-Seez,
near the church; in 1816 furnished Madame du Bousquier, then Mademoiselle
Rose Cormon, the articles of furniture made necessary by M. de Troisville's
unlooked-for arrival at her home on his return from Russia.

[Jealousies of a Country Town.] MOREAU, an aged workman at Dauphine, uncle of little Jacques
Colas, lived, during the Restoration, in poverty and resignation,
with his wife, in the village near Grenoble-- a place which was completely
changed by Doctor Benassis.

[The Country Doctor.] MOREAU-MALVIN, "a prominent butcher," died about 1820. His beautiful tomb
of white marble ornaments rue du Marechal-Lefebvre at Pere-Lachaise, near the burial-place of
Madame Jules Desmarets and Mademoiselle Raucourt of the Comedie-Francaise.
[The Thirteen.] MORILLON (Pere), a priest, who had charge, for some
time under the Empire, of Gabriel Claes'early education.

[The Quest of the Absolute.] MORIN (La), a very poor old woman who
reared La Fosseuse, an orphan, in a kindly manner in a market-town
near Grenoble, but who gave her some raps on the fingers with her spoon
when the child was too quick in taking soup from the common porringer.

La Morin tilled the soil like a man, and murmured frequently at the
miserable pallet on which she and La Fosseuse slept.

[The Country Doctor.] MORIN (Jeanne-Marie-Victoire Tarin, veuve), accused of trying to obtain
money by forging signatures to promissory-notes, also of the attempted
assassination of Sieur Ragoulleau; condemned by the Court of Assizes
at Paris on January 11, 1812, to twenty years hard labor.

The elder Poiret, a man who never thought independently, was a witness for the defence, and often thought
of the trial. The widow Morin, born at Pont-sur-Seine, Aube, was a fellow-countrywoman of Poiret,
who was born at Troyes. [Father Goriot.] Many extracts have been taken
from the items published about this criminal case.

MORISSON, an inventor of purgative pills, which were imitated by
Doctor Poulain, physician to Pons and the Cibots, when, as a beginner,
he wished to make his fortune rapidly.

[Cousin Pons.] MORTSAUF (Comte de), head of a Touraine family, which
owed to an ancestor of Louis XI.'s reign-- a man who had escaped the
gibbet-- its fortune, coat-of-arms and position. The count was the incarnation
of the "refugee."

Exiled, either willingly or unwillingly, his banishment made him
weak of mind and body.

He married Blanche-Henriette de Lenoncourt, by whom he had two children, Jacques and Madeleine. On
the accession of the Bourbons he was breveted field-marshal, but
did not leave Clochegourde, a castle brought to him in his wife's
dowry and situated on the banks of the Indre and the Cher.

[The Lily of the Valley.] MORTSAUF (Comtesse de), [*] wife of the
preceding; born Blanche-Henriette de Lenoncourt, of the "house of
Lenoncourt-Givry, fast becoming extinct," towards the first years
of the Restoration; was born after the death of three brothers, and
thus had a sorrowful childhood and youth; found a good foster-mother
in her aunt, a Blamont-Chauvry; and when married found her chief pleasure
in the care of her children.

This feeling gave her the power to repress the love which she felt for Felix de Vandenesse, but the
effort which this hard struggle caused her brought on a severe stomach
disease of which she died in 1820.

[The Lily of the Valley.] [*] Beauplan and Barriere presented a play at the Comedie-Francaise,
having for a heroine Madame de Mortsauf, June 14, 1853. MORTSAUF (Jacques de), elder child of
the preceding couple, pupil of Dominis, most delicate member of the family, died prematurely.
With his death the line of Lenoncourt-Givrys proper passed away, for he would have been their heir.
[The Lily of the Valley.] MORTSAUF (Madeleine de), sister of the
preceding; after her mother's death she would not receive Felix de
Vandenesse, who had been Madame de Mortsauf's lover.

She became in time Duchesse de Lenoncourt-Givry (See that name). [The Lily of the Valley.] MOUCHE,
born in 1811, illegitimate son of one of Fourchon's natural daughters and a soldier who died in Russia;
was given a home, when an orphan, by his maternal grandfather, whom
he aided sometimes as ropemaker's apprentice.

About 1823, in the district of Ville-aux-Fayes, Bourgogne, he profited by the credulity of
the strangers whom he was supposed to teach the art of hunting otter. Mouche's attitude and conversation,
as he came in the autumn of 1823 to the Aigues, scandalized the Montcornets and their guests. [The
Peasantry.] MOUCHON, eldest of three brothers who lived in 1793 in
the Bourgogne valley of Avonne or Aigues; managed the estate of Ronquerolles;
became deputy of his division to the Convention; had a reputation
for uprightness; preserved the property and the life of the Ronquerolles;
died in the year 1804, leaving two daughters, Mesdames Gendrin and
Gaubertin.

[The Peasantry.] MOUCHON, brother of the preceding, had charge of the relay post-house at
Conches, Bourgogne; had a daughter who married the wealthy farmer Guerbet; died in 1817. [The
Peasantry.] MOUGIN, born about 1805 in Toulouse, fifth of the Parisian
hair-dressers who, under the name of Marius, successively owned the
same business.

In 1845, a wealthy married man of family, captain in the Guard and decorated after 1832, an elector
and eligible to office, he had established himself on the Place de la Bourse as capillary artist emeritus,
where his praises were sung by Bixiou and Lora to the wondering Gazonal. [The Unconscious Humorists.]
MOUILLERON, king's attorney at Issoudun in 1822, cousin to every person in the city during
the quarrels between the Rouget and Bridau families. [A Bachelor's Establishment.] MURAT (Joachim,
Prince). In October, 1800, on the day in which Bartolomeo de Piombo
was presented by Lucien Bonaparte, he was, with Lannes and Rapp,
in the rooms of Bonaparte, the First Consul.

He became Grand Duke of Berg in 1806, the time of the well-known
quarrel between the Simeuses and Malin de Gondreville.

Murat came to the rescue of Colonel Chabert's cavalry regiment at the battle of Eylau, February
7 and 8, 1807. "Oriental in tastes," he exhibited, even before acceding to the throne of Naples
in 1808, a foolish love of luxury for a modern soldier. Twenty years
later, during a village celebration in Dauphine, Benassis and Genestas listened
to the story of Bonaparte, as told by a veteran, then became a laborer,
who mingled with his narrative a number of entertaining stories of
the bold Murat.

[The Vendetta. [Father Goriot.] MUSSON, well-known hoaxer in the early part of the nineteenth
century. The policeman, Peyrade, imitated his craftiness in manner and disguise twenty years
later, while acting as an English nabob keeping Suzanne Gaillard.

[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] N NANON, called Nanon the Great from her height (6 ft. 4 in.);
born about 1769.

First she tended cows on a farm that she was forced to leave after
a fire; turned away on every side, because of her appearance, which
was repulsive, she became, about 1791, at the age of twenty-two, a
member of Felix Grandet's household at Saumur, where she remained
the rest of her life.

She always showed gratitude to her master for having taken her in. Brave, devoted and serious-minded,
the only servant of the miser, she received as wages for very hard
service only sixty francs a year.

However, the accumulations of even so paltry an income allowed her, in 1819, to make a life investment
of four thousand francs with Monsieur Cruchot. Nanon had also an annuity of twelve hundred francs
from Madame de Bonfons, lived near the daughter of her former master,
who was dead, and, about 1827, being almost sixty years of age, married
Antoine Cornoiller.

With her husband, she continued her work of devoted service to Eugenie de Bonfons. [Eugenie Grandet.]
NAPOLITAS, in 1830, secretary of Bibi-Lupin, chief of the secret police. Prison spy at the Conciergerie,
he played the part of a son in a family accused of forgery, in order to observe closely Jacques
Collin, who pretended to be Carlos Herrera. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] NARZICOF (Princess),
a Russian; had left to the merchant Fritot, according to his own
account, as payment for supplies, the carriage in which Mistress Noswell,
wrapped in the shawl called Selim, returned to the Hotel Lawson.

[Gaudissart II.] NATHAN (Raoul), son of a Jew pawn-broker, who died in bankruptcy a short while after
marrying a Catholic, was for twenty-five years (1820-45) one of the
best known writers in Paris.

Raoul Nathan touched upon many branches: the journal, romance, poetry and the stage. In 1821, Dauriat
published for him an imaginative work which Lucien de Rubempre alternately praised and criticized.
The harsh criticism was meant for the publisher only. Nathan then put on the stage the "Alcade dans
l'Embarras"-- a comedie called an "imbroglio" and presented at the
Panorama-Dramatique.

He signed himself simply "Raoul"; he had as collaborator Cursy-- M. du Bruel. The play was a distinct
success. About the same time, he supplanted Lousteau, lover of Florine,
one of his leading actresses.

About this time also Raoul was on terms of intimacy with Emile Blondet, who wrote him a letter
dated from Aigues (Bourgogne) in which he described the Montcornets, and related their local
difficulties. Raoul Nathan, a member of all the giddy and dissipated social circles, was with Giroudeau,
Finot and Bixiou, a witness of Philip Bridau's wedding to Madame J.-J. Rouget. He visited Florentine
Cabirolle, when the Marests and Oscar Husson were there, and appeared
often on the rue Saint-Georges, at the home of Esther van Gobseck,
who was already much visited by Blondet, Bixiou and Lousteau.

Raoul, at this time, was much occupied with the press, and made a
great parade of Royalism.

The accession of Louis Philippe did not diminish the extended circle of his relations. The Marquise
d'Espard received him.

It was at her house that he heard evil reports of Diane de Cadignan, greatly to the dissatisfaction
of Daniel d'Arthez, also present. Marie de Vandenesse, just married,
noticed Nathan, who was handsome by reason of an artistic, uncouth
ugliness, and elegant irregularity of features, and Raoul resolved
to make the most of the situation.

Although turned Republican, he took very readily to the idea of winning a lady of the aristocracy.
During the first years of Louis Philippe's reign, Nathan presented a flaming and brilliant
drama, the two collaborators in which were Monsieur and Madame Marie Gaston, whose names were indicated
on the hand-bills by stars only. In his younger days he had had a play
of his put on at the Odeon, a romantic work after the style of "Pinto,"
[*] at a time when the classic was dominant, and the stage had been
so greatly stirred up for three days that the play was prohibited.

At another time he presented at the Theatre-Francais a great drama that fell "with all the honors
of war, amid the roar of newspaper cannon." In the winter of 1837-38, Vanda de Mergi read a
new romance of Nathan's, entitled "La Perle de Dol."

Nathan
sought the society of Madame de la Baudraye, who got from him, in the rue de Chartres-du-Roule, at
the home of Beatrix de Rochefide, a certain story, to be arranged as a novel, related more or
less after the style of Sainte-Beuve, concerning the Bohemians and
their prince, Rusticoli de la Palferine.

Raoul cultivated likewise the society of the Marquise de Rochefide,
and, one evening of October, 1840, a proscenium box at the Varietes
was the means of bringing together Canalis, Nathan and Beatrix.

Received everywhere, perfectly at home in Marguerite Turquet's boudoir,
Raoul, as a member of a group composed of Bixiou, La Palferine and
Maitre Cardot, heard Maitre Desroches tell how Cerizet made use of
Antonia Chocardelle, to "get even" with Maxime de Trailles.

Nathan afterwards married his misress, Florine, whose maiden name was really Sophie Grignault.
NATHAN, [*] (Madame Raoul), wife of the preceding, born Sophie Grignault,
in 1805, in Bretagne. She was a perfect beauty, her foot alone left
something to be desired.

When very young she tried the double career of pleasure and the stage under the now famous name of Florine.
The details of her early life are rather obscure: Madame Nathan, as supernumerary of the Gaite,
had six lovers, before choosing Etienne Lousteau in that relation in 1821. She was at that time
closely connected with Florentine Cabirolle, Claudine Chaffaroux, Coralie and Marie Godeschal.
She had also a supporter in Matifat, the druggist, and lodged on the rue de Bondy, where, after
a brilliant success at the Panorama-Dramatique, with Coralie and Bouffe,
she received in maginficent style the diplomatists, Lucien de Rubempre,
Camusot and others.

Florine soon made an advantageous change in lover, home, theatre and protector;
Nathan, whom she afterwards married, supplanted Lousteau about the
middle of Louis Philippe's reign.

Her home was on rue Hauteville intead of rue de Bondy; and she had
moved from the stage of the Panorama to that of the Gymnase.

Having made an engagement at the theatre of the Boulevard Bonne-Nouvelle, she met there her
old rival, Coralie, against whom she organized a cabal; she was distinguished for the brilliancy
of her costumes, and brought into her train of followers successively
the opulent Dudley, Desire Minoret, M. des Grassins, the banker of
Saumur, and M. du Rouvre; she even ruined the last two.

Florine's fortune rose during the monarchy of July. Her association with Nathan subserved, moreover,
their mutual interests; the poet won respect for the actress, who knew moreover how to make
herself formidable by her spirit of intrigue and the tartness of
her sallies of wit.

Who did not know her mansion on the rue Pigalle? Indeed, Madame Nathan was an intimate acquaintance
of Coralie, Esther la Torpille, Claudine du Bruel, Euphrasie, Aquilina,
Madame Theodore Gaillard, and Marie Godeschal; entertained Emile
Blondet, Andoche Finot, Etienne Lousteau, Felicien Vernou, Couture,
Bixiou, Rastignac, Vignon, F. du Tillet, Nucingen, and Conti.

Her apartments were embellished with the works of Bixiou, F. Souchet, Joseph Bridau, and H. Schinner.
Madame de Vandenesse, being somewhat enamored of Nathan, would have destroyed
these joys and this splendor, without heeding the devotion of the
writer's mistress, on the one hand, or the interference of Vandenesse
on the other.

Florine, having entirely won back Nathan, made no delay in marrying him. NAVARREINS (Duc de),
born about 1767, son-in-law of the Prince de Cadignan, through his first marriage; father of
Antoinette de Langeais, kinsman of Madame d'Espard, and cousin of Valentin; accused of "haughtiness."
He was patron of M. du Bruel-- Cursy-- on his entrance into the government service; had a
lawsuit against the hospitals, which he entrusted to the care of
Maitre Derville. On the side streets were built the houses for the people who were to
live in the new town, while on a rocky point with its queer little round tower looking out
to sea stood the stone fort to protect the little city. It was the first settlement made by
white men in all the great new world of America.

You must know that there are some very wise and very bright people who do not agree to this.
They say that nearly five hundred years before Columbus landed, a Norwegian prince or viking,
whose name was Leif Ericsson, had built on the banks of the beautiful Charles River, some twelve
miles from Boston, a city which he called Norumbega.

But this has not really been proved. It is almost all the fancy of a wise man who has studied
it out for himself, and says he believes there was such a city. But he does not really know
it as we know of the city of Isabella, and so we must still say that Christopher Columbus really
discovered America and built the first fort and the first city on its shores--although he thought
he was doing all this in Asia, on the shores of China or Japan.

When Columbus had his people nearly settled in their new city of Isabella, he remembered that
the main thing he was sent to do was to get together as much gold as possible. His men were
already grumbling. They had come over the sea, they said, not to dig cellars and build huts,
but to find gold--gold that should make them rich and great and happy.

So Columbus set to work gold-hunting. At first things seemed to promise success. The Indians
told big stories of gold to be found in the mountains of Hayti; the men sent to the mountains
discovered signs of gold, and at once Columbus sent home joyful tidings to the king and queen
of Spain.

Then he and his men hunted everywhere for the glittering yellow metal. They fished for it in
the streams; they dug for it in the earth; they drove the Indians to hunt for it also until
the poor redmen learned to hate the very sound of the word gold, and believed that this was
all the white men lived for, cared for or worked for; holding up a piece of this hated gold
the Indians would say, one to another: "Behold the Christian's god!" And so it came about that
the poor worried natives, who were not used to such hard work, took the easiest way out of
it all, and told the Spaniards the biggest kind of lies as to where gold might be found--always
away off somewhere else--if only the white men would go there to look for it.

On the thirteenth of January, 1494, Columbus sent back to Spain twelve of his seventeen ships.
He did not send back in them to the king, and queen, the gold he had promised. He sent back
the letters that promised gold; he sent back as prisoners for punishment some of the most discontented
and quarrelsome of his colonists; and, worst of all, he sent to the king and queen a note asking,
them to permit him to send to Spain all the Indians he could catch, to be sold as slaves. He
said that by doing this they could make "good Christians" of the Indians, while the money that
came from selling the natives would buy cattle for the colony and leave some money for the
royal money-chests.

It is not pleasant to think this of so great a man as Columbus. But it is true, and he is really
the man who, started the slave-trade in America. Of course things were very different in his
time from what they are to-day, and people did not think so badly of this horrible business.
But some good men did, and spoke out boldly against it. What they said was not of much use,
however, and slavery was started in the new world. And from that act of Columbus came much
sorrow and trouble for the land he found. He was the elder of the two legitimate sons of the Marquis
d'Espard. He studied at College Henri IV., and lived in Paris, under their father's roof, on
the rue de la Montagne-Sainte-Genevieve. The Comte de Negrepelisse seldom visited his mother,
the Marquise d'Espard, who lived apart from her family in the Faubourg
Saint-Honore.

[Honorine.] NEPOMUCENE, a foundling; servant-boy of Madame Vauthier,
manager and door-keeper of the house on the Boulevard Montparnasse,
which was occupied by the families of Bourlac and Mergi.

Nepomucene usually wore a ragged blouse and, instead of shoes, gaiters
or wooden clogs. To his work with Madame Vauthier was added daily
work in the wood-yards of the vicinity, and, on Sundays and Mondays,
during the summer, he worked also with the wine-merchants at the
barrier.

[The Seamy Side of History.] NERAUD, a physician at Provins during the
Restoration.

He ruined his wife, who was the widow of a grocer named Auffray, and who had married him for
love. He survived her. Being a man of doubtful character and a rival of Dr. Martener, Neraud attached
himself to the party of Gouraud and Vinet, who represented Liberal
ideas; he failed to uphold Pierrette Lorrain, the granddaughter of
Auffray, against her guardians, the Rogrons.

[Pierrette.] NERAUD (Madame), wife of the preceding. Married first to Auffray, the grocer, who
was sixty years old; she was only thirty-eight at the beginning of her widowhood; she married Dr. Neraud
almost immediately after the death of her first husband. By her first marriage she had a daughter,
who was the wife of Major Lorrain, and the mother of Pierrette. Madame
Neraud died of grief, amid squalid surroundings, two years after
her second marriage.

The Rogrons, descended from old Auffray by his first marriage, had
stripped her of almost all she had.

[Pierrette.] NICOLAS. (See Montauran, Marquis de.) NINETTE, born in 1832, "rat" at the Opera
in Paris, was acquainted with Leon de Lora and J.-J. Bixiou, who called Gazonal's attention to
her in 1845. [The Unconscious Humorists.] NOLLAND (Abbe), the promising pupil of Abbe Roze. Concealed
during the Revolution at the house of M. de Negrepelisse, near Barbezieux,
he had in charge the education of Marie-Louise-Anais (afterwards Madame
de Bargeton), and taught her music, Italian and German.

He died in 1802. [Lost Illusions.] NISERON, curate of Blangy (Bourgogne) before the Revolution; predecessor
of Abbe Brossette in this curacy; uncle of Jean-Francois Niseron.

He was led
by a childish but innocent indiscretion on the part of his great-niece,
as well as by the influence of Dom Rigou, to disinherit the Niserons
in the interests of the Mesdemoiselles Pichard, house-keepers in his
family.

[The Peasantry.] NISERON (Jean-Francois), beadle, sacristan, chorister, bell-ringer, and grave-digger
of the parish of Blangy (Bourgogne), during the Restoration; nephew
and only heir of Niseron the cure; born in 1751.

He was delighted at the Revolution, was the ideal type of the Republican, a sort of Michel Chrestien
of the fields; treated with cold disdain the Pichard family, who took from him the inheritance,
to which he alone had any right; lived a life of poverty and sequestration;
was none the less respected; was of Montcornet's party represented
by Brossette; their opponent, Gregoire Rigou, felt for him both esteem
and fear.

Jean-Francois Niseron lost, one after another, his wife and his two
children, and had by his side, in his old days, only Genevieve, natural
daughter of his deceased son, Auguste.

[The Peasantry.] NISERON (Auguste), son of the preceding; soldier of the Republic and of the
Empire; while an artilleryman in 1809, he seduced, at Zahara, a young Montenegrin, Zena Kropoli, who
died, at Vincennes, early in the year 1810, leaving him an infant daughter. Thus he could not
realize his purpose of marrying her. He himself was killed, before
Montereau, during the year 1814, by the bursting of a shell.

[The Peasantry.]
NISERON (Genevieve), natural daughter of the preceding and the Montenegrin woman, Zena Kropoli;
born in 1810, and named Genevieve after a paternal aunt; an orphan
from the age of four, she was reared in Bourgogne by her grandfather,
Jean-Francois Niseron.

She had her father's beauty and her mother's peculiarities. Her patronesses, Madame Montcornet and Madame
de Michaud, bestowed upon her the surname Pechina, and, to guard her against Nicholas Tonsard's
attentions, placed her in a convent at Auxerre, where she might acquire skill
in sewing and forget Justin Michaud, whom she loved unconsciously.
[The Peasantry.] NOEL, book-keeper for Jean-Jules Popinot of Paris, in
1828, at the time that the judge questioned the Marquis d'Espard,
whose wife tried to deprive him of the right to manage his property.

[The Commission in Lunacy.] NOSWELL (Mistress), a rich and eccentric Englishwoman, who was in Paris
at the Hotel Lawson about the middle of Louis Philippe's reign; after
much mental debate she bought of Fritot the shawl called Selim, which
he said at first it was "impossible" for him to sell.

[Gaudissart
II.] NOUASTRE (Baron de), a refugee of the purest noble blood. A ruined man, he returned to Alencon
in 1800, with his daughter, who was twenty-two years of age, and found a home with the Marquis d'Esgrignon,
and died of grief two months later. Shortly afterwards the marquis married the orphan daughter. [Jealousies
of a Country Town.] NOURRISSON (Madame), was formerly, under the Empire, attached to the service
of the Prince d'Ysembourg in Paris.

The sight of the disorderly life of a "great lady" of the times decided Madame Nourrisson's profession.
She set up shop as a dealer in old clothes, and was also known as mistress of various houses
of shame. Intimate relations with Jacqueline Collin, continued for more than twenty years, made
this two-fold business profitable.

The two matrons willingly exchanged, at times, names and business signs, resources and profits.
It was in the old clothes shop, on the rue Neuve-Saint-Marc, that Frederic de Nucingen bargained
for Esther van Gobseck. Towards the end of Charles X.'s reign, one
of Madame Nourrisson's establishments, on rue Saint-Barbe, was managed
by La Gonore; in the time of Louis Philippe another-- a secret affair--
existed at the so-called "Pate des Italiens"; Valerie Marneffe and
Wenceslas Steinbock were once caught there together.

Madame Nourrisson, first of the name, evidently continued to conduct
her business on the rue Saint-Marc, since, in 1845, she narrated the
minutiae of it to Madame Mahuchet before an audience composed of the
well-known trio, Bixiou, Lora and Gazonal, and related to them her
own history, disclosing to them the secrets of her own long past beginnings
in life.

[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life. Cousin Betty. The Unconscious Humorists.]
NOUVION (Comte de), a noble refugee, who had returned in utter poverty;
chevalier of the Order of Saint-Louis; lived in Paris in 1828, subsisting
on the delicately disguised charity of his friend, the Marquis d'Espard,
who made him superintendent of the publication, at No. 22 rue de la
Montagne-Sainte-Genevieve, of the "Picturesque History of China,"
and offered him a share in the possible profits of the work.

[The Commission in Lunacy.] NOVERRE, a celebrated dancer, born in
Paris 1727; died in 1807; was the rather unreliable customer of Chevrel
the draper, father-in-law and predecessor of Guillaume at the Cat
and Racket.

[At the Sign of the Cat and Racket.] NUCINGEN (Baron Frederic de), born, probably at Strasbourg,
about 1767. At that place he was formerly clerk to M. d'Aldrigger, an Alsatian banker. Of better
judgment than his employer, he did not believe in the success of
the Emperor in 1815 and speculated very skilfully on the battle of
Waterloo.

Nucingen now carried on business alone, and on his own account, in Paris and elsewhere; he thus
prepared by degrees the famous house of the rue Saint-Lazare, and
laid the foundation of a fortune, which, under Louis Philippe, reached
almost eighteen million francs.

At this period he married one of the two daughters of a rich vermicelli-maker,
Mademoiselle Delphine Goriot, by whom he had a daughter, Augusta,
eventually the wife of Eugene de Rastignac.

From the first
years of the Restoration may be dated the real brilliancy of his career, the result of a combination
with the Kellers, Ferdinand du Tillet, and Eugene de Rastignac in the
successful manipulation of schemes in connection with the Wortschin
mines, followed by opportune assignments and adroitly managed cases
of bankruptcy.

These various combinations ruined the Ragons, the Aiglemonts, the Aldriggers, and the Beaudenords.
At this time, too, Nucingen, though clamorously declaring himself an out-and-out Bourbonist,
turned a deaf ear to Cesar Birotteau's appeals for credit, in spite of knowing of the latter's
consistent Royalism. There was a time in the baron's life when he seemed to change his nature; it was when,
after giving up his hired dancer, he madly entered upon an amour with Esther van Gobseck, alarmed
his physician, Horace Bianchon, employed Corentin, Georges, Louchard, and Peyrade, and became especially
the prey of Jacques Collin. After Esther's suicide, in May, 1830, Nuncingen abandoned "Cythera," as Chardin
des Lupeaulx had done before, and became again a man of figures, and was overwhelmed with favors:
insignia, the peerage, and the cross of grand officer of the Legion
of Honor. Nucingen, being respected and esteemed, in spite of his blunt
ways and his German accent, was a patron of Beaudenord, and a frequent
guest of Cointet, the minister; he went everywhere, and, at the mansion of
Mademoiselle des Touches, heard Marsay give an account of some of
his old love-affairs; witnessed, before Daniel d'Arthez, the calumniation
of Diane de Cadignan by every one present in Madame d'Espard's parlor;
guided Maxime de Trailles between the hands, or, rather, the clutches
of Claparon-Cerizet; accepted the invitation of Josepha Mirah to her
reception on the rue Ville-l'Eveque.

When Wenceslas Steinbock married Hortense Hulot, Nucingen and Cottin
de Wissembourg were the bride's witnesses.

Furthermore, their father, Hector Hulot d'Ervy, borrowed of him more than a hundred thousand francs.
The Baron de Nucingen acted as sponsor to Polydore de la Baudraye when he was admitted to
the French peerage. As a friend of Ferdinand du Tillet, he was admitted on most intimate terms
to the boudoir of Carabine, and he was seen there, one evening in 1845,
along with Jenny Cadine, Gazonal, Bixiou, Leon de Lora, Massol, Claude
Vignon, Trailles, F. du Bruel, Vauvinet, Marguerite Turquet, and the
Gaillards of the rue Menars.

In the latter period of the Empire she contracted, greatly to her
taste, a marriage for money.

Madame de Nucingen formerly had as her lover Henri de Marsay, who finally abandoned her most cruelly.
Reduced, at the time of Louis XVIII., to the society of the Chaussee-d'Antin, she was ambitious
to be admitted to the Faubourg Saint-Germain, a circle of which her
elder sister, Madame de Restaud, was a member.

Eugene de Rastignac opened to her the parlor of Madame de Beauseant,
his cousin, rue de Greville, in 1819, and, at about the same time,
became her lover.

Their liaison lasted more than fifteen years. An apartment on the rue d'Artois, fitted up by
Jean-Joachim Goriot, sheltered their early love. Having entrusted to Rastignac a certain sum
for play at the Palais-Royal, the baroness was able with the proceeds to free herself of a humiliating
debt to Marsay. Meanwhile she lost her father. The Nucingen carriage, without an occupant, however,
followed the hearse. [Father Goriot.] Madame de Nucingen entertained a great deal on the rue Saint-Lazare.
It was there that Auguste de Maulincour saw Clemence Desmarets, and
Adolphe des Grassins met Charles Grandet.

[The Thirteen. Eugenie Grandet.] Cesar Birotteau, on coming to beg credit of Nucingen, as also
did Rodolphe Castanier, immediately after his forgery, found themselves face to face with the baroness.
[Cesar Birotteau. Melmoth Reconciled.] At this period, Madame de Nucingen took the box at the
Opera which Antoinette de Langeais had occupied, believing undoubtedly,
said Madame d'Espard, that she would inherit her charms, wit and success. [Lost
Illusions. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris. The Commission in Lunacy.]
According to Diane de Cadignan, Delphine had a horrible journey when
she went to Naples by sea, of which she brought back a most painful
reminder.

The baroness showed a haughty and scornful indulgence when her husband became enamored of Esther van
Gobseck. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] Forgetting her origin she dreamed of seeing her daughter
Augusta become Duchesse d'Herouville; but the Herouvilles, knowing the muddy source of Nucingen's
millions, declined this alliance. [Modeste Mignon. The Firm of Nucingen.] Shortly after the
year 1830, the baroness was invited to the house of Felicite des Touches, where she saw Marsay
once more, and heard him give an account of an old love-affair. [Another Study of woman.] Delphine
aided Marie de Vandenesse and Nathan to the extent of forty thousand francs during the checkered
course of their intrigues. She remembered indeed having gone through
similar experiences. [A Daughter of Eve.] About the middle of the monarchy
of July, Madame de Nucingen, as mother-in-law of Eugene de Rastignac,
visited Madame d'Espard and met Maxime de Trailles and Ferdinand du
Tillet in the Faubourg Saint-Germain.

[The Member for Arcis.] NUEIL (De), proprietor of the domain of the Manervilles, which, doubtless,
descended to the younger son, Gaston. [The Deserted Woman.] NUEIL (Madame de), wife of the preceding,
survived her husband, and her eldest son, became the dowager Comtesse de Nueil, and afterwards
owned the domain of Manerville, to which she withdrew in retirement.
She was the type of the scheming mother, careful and correct, but worldly.
She matched off Gaston, and was thereby involuntarily the cause of his
death. [The Deserted Woman.] NUEIL (De), eldest son of the preceding,
died of consumption in the reign of Louis XVIII., leaving the title
of Comte de Nueil to his younger brother, Baron Gaston.

[The Deserted Woman.] NUEIL (Gaston de), son of the Nueils and brother of the preceding, born
about 1799, of good extraction and with fortune suitable to his rank. He went, in 1822, to Bayeux, where
he had family connections, in order to recuperate from the wearing fatigues of Parisian life;
had an opportunity to force open the closed door of Claire de Beauseant,
who had been living in retirement in that vicinity ever since the
marriage of Miguel d'Ajuda-Pinto to Berthe de Rochefide; he fell in
love with her, his love was reciprocated, and for nearly ten years
he lived with her as her husband in Normandie and Switzerland.

Albert Savarus, in his autobiographical novel, "L'Ambitieux par Amour," made a vague reference
to them as living together on the shore of Lake Geneva. After the Revolution of 1830, Gaston de
Nueil, already rich from his Norman estates that afforded an income of
eighteen thousand francs, married Mademoiselle Stephanie de la Rodiere.

Wearying of the marriage tie, he wished to renew his former relations with Madame de Beauseant.
Exasperated by the haughty repulse at the hands of his former mistress,
Nueil killed himself. [The Deserted Woman.

Albert Savarus.] NUEIL (Madame Gaston de), born Stephanie de la Rodiere, about 1812, a very insignificant
character, married, at the beginning of Louis Philippe's reign, Gaston de Nueil, to whom she
brought an income of forty thousand francs a year. She was enceinte after the first month of
her marriage. Having become Countess de Nueil, by succession, upon
the death of her brother-in-law, and being deserted by Gaston, she
continued to live in Normandie.

Madame Gaston de Nueil survived her husband. [The Deserted Woman.] O O'FLAHARTY (Major), maternal uncle of
Raphael de Valentin, to whom he bequeathed ten millions upon his death in Calcutta, August,
1828. [The Magic Skin.] OIGNARD, in 1806 was chief clerk to Maitre Bordin, a Parisian lawyer. [A
Start in Life.] OLGA, daughter of the Topinards, born in 1840. She was not a legitimate child,
as her parents were not married at the time when Schmucke saw her
with them in 1846.

He loved her for the beauty of her light Teutonic hair. [Cousin Pons.]
OLIVET, an Angouleme lawyer, succeeded by Petit-Claude.

[Lost Illusions.] OLIVIER was in the service of the policeman, Corentin and Peyrade, when they
found the Hauteserres and the Simeuses with the Cinq-Cygne family in 1803. [The Gondreville Mystery.]
OLIVIER (Monsieur and Madame), first in the employ of Charles X. as outrider
and laundress; had charge of three children, of whom the eldest became
an under notary's clerk; were finally, under Louis Philippe, servants
of the Marneffes and of Mademoiselle Fischer, to whom, through craftiness
or gratitude, they devoted themselves exclusively.

[Cousin Betty.] ORFANO (Duc d'), title of Marechal Cottin. ORGEMONT (D'), wealthy and avaricious
banker, proprietor at Fougeres, bought the Abbaye de Juvigny's estate. He remained neutral during
the Chouan insurrection of 1799 and came into contact with Coupiau,
Galope-Chopine, and Mesdames du Gua-Saint-Cyr and de Montauran.

[The Chouans.] ORGEMONT (D'), brother of the preceding, a Breton priest who took the oath of
allegiance. He died in 1795 and was buried in a secluded spot, discovered and preserved by M. d'Orgemont,
the banker, as a place of hiding from the fury of the Vendeans. [The Chouans.] ORIGET, famous
Tours physician; known to the Mortsaufs, chatelains of Clochegourde. [The Lily of the Valley.] ORSONVAL
(Madame d'), frequently visited the Cruchot and Grandet families at Saumur.
[Eugenie Grandet.] OSSIAN, valet in the service of Mougin, the well-known
hair-dresser on the Place de la Bourse, in 1845.

Ossian's duty was to show the patrons out, and in this capacity he attended Bixiou, Lora and
Gazonal. [The Unconscious Humorists.] OTTOBONI, an Italian conspirator who hid in Paris. In
1831, on dining at the Giardinis on rue Froidmanteau, he became acquainted
with the Gambaras.

[Gambara.] P PACCARD, released convict, in Jacques Collin's clutches, well known as a thief and
drunkard. He was Prudence Servien's lover, and both were employed by Esther van Gobseck at the same
time, Paccard being a footman; lived with a carriage-maker on rue de Provence, in 1829. After
stealing seven hundred and fifty thousand francs, which had been left by Esther van Gobseck,
he was obliged to give up seven hundred and thirty thousand of them.

[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] PACCARD (Mademoiselle), sister
of the preceding, in the power of Jacqueline Collin.

[Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] PALMA, Parisian banker of the Poissoniere suburbs; had, during the
regime of the Restoration and of July, great fame as a financier.

He was "private counsel for the Keller establishment." Birotteau, the
perfumer, at the time of his financial troubles, vainly asked him for
help. [The Firm of Nucingen.

Cesar Birotteau.] With Werbrust as a partner he dealt in discounts as shrewdly as did Gobseck and
Bidault, and thus was in a position to help Lucien de Rubempre. [Gobseck.

Lost Illusions. A Distinguished Provincial at Paris.] He was also M. Werbrust's associate in the muslin,
calico and oil-cloth establishment at No. 5 rue du Sentier, when
Maximilien was so friendly with the Fontaines.

[The Ball at Sceaux.] PAMIERS (Vidame de), "oracle of Faubourg Saint-Germain
at the time of the Restoration," a member of the family council dealing
with Antoinette de Langeais, who was accused of compromising herself
with Montriveau.

Past-commander of the Order of Malta, prominent in both the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, old and
confidential friend of the Baronne de Maulincour.

Pamiers reared the young Baron Auguste de Maulincour, defending him with all his power against
Bourignard's hatred. [The Thirteen.] As a former intimate friend of the Marquis d'Esgrignon,
the vidame introduced the Vicomte d'Esgrignon-- Victurnien-- to
Diane de Maufrigneuse. An intimate friendship between the young man and
the future Princess de Cadignan was the result. [Jealousies of a Country
Town.] PANNIER, merchant and banker after 1794; treasurer of the
"brigands"; connected with the uprising of the Chauffeurs of Mortagne
in 1809.

Having been condemned to twenty years of hard labor, Pannier was branded and placed in the galleys.
Appointed lieutenant-general under Louis XVIII., he governed a royal castle. He died without
children. [The Seamy Side of History.] PARADIS, born in 1830; Maxime de Trailles'servant-boy
or "tiger"; quick and bold; made a tour, during the election period
in the spring of 1839, through the Arcis-sur-Aube district, with his
master, meeting Goulard, the sub-prefect, Poupart, the tavern-keeper,
and the Maufrigneuses and Mollots of Cinq-Cygne.

[The Member for Arcis.] PARQUOI (Francois), one of the Chouans, for whom Abbe Gudin held a funeral
mass in the heart of the forest, not far from Fougeres, in the autumn of 1799. Francois Parquoi
died, as did Nicolas Laferte, Joseph Brouet and Sulpice Coupiau,
of injuries received at the battle of La Pelerine and at the siege
of Fougeres.

[The Chouans.] PASCAL, porter of the Thuilliers in the Place de la Madeleine house; acted also as beadle at
La Madeleine church. [The Middle Classes.] PASCAL (Abbe), chaplain at
Limoges prison in 1829; gentle old man.

He tried vainly to obtain a confession from Jean-Francois Tascheron, who had been imprisoned for robbery
followed by murder. [The Country Parson.] PASTELOT, priest in 1845,
in the Saint-Francois church in the Marais, on the street now called
rue Charlot; watched over the dead body of Sylvain Pons.

[Cousin Pons.] PASTUREAU (Jean Francois), in 1829, owner of an estate
in Isere, the value of which was said to have been impaired by the
passing by of Doctor Benassis'patients.

[The Country Doctor.] PATRAT (Maitre), notary at Fougeres in 1799,
an acquaintance of D'Orgemont, the banker, and introduced to Marie
de Verneuil by the old miser.

[The Chouans.] PATRIOTE, a monkey, which Marie de Verneuil, its owner,
had taught to counterfeit Danton. The craftiness of this animal reminded
Marie of Corentin.

[The Chouans.] PAULINE, for a long time Julie d'Aiglemont's waiting-maid.

[A Woman of Thirty.] PAULMIER, employed under the Restoration in the
Ministry of Finance in Isidore Baudoyer's bureau of Flamet de la Billardiere's
division.

Paulmier was a bachelor, but quarreled continually with his married colleague, Chazelles. [The
Government Clerks.] PAZ (Thaddee), Polish descendant of a distinguished Florentine family, the Pazzi,
one of whose members had become a refugee in Poland.

Living contemporaneously with his fellow-citizen and friend, the
Comte Adam Mitgislas Laginski, like him Thaddee Paz fought for his
country, later on following him into exile in Paris, during the reign
of Louis Philippe.

Bearing up bravely in his poverty, he was willing to become steward to the count, and he made an able
manager of the Laginski mansion.

 It was what we call the "spirit of the
age." So you must not blame Bobadilla too much, although we will all agree that it was very
hard on Columbus.

So Columbus, as I have told you, sailed back to Spain. But when the officer who had charge
of him and whose name was Villijo, had got out to sea and out of Bobadilla's sight, he wanted
to take the chains off. For he loved Columbus and it made him feel very sad to see the old
Admiral treated like a convict or a murderer. Let me have these cruel chains struck off, Your
Excellency, he said. No, no, Villijo, Columbus replied. Let these fetters remain upon me. My
king and queen ordered me to submit and Bobadilla has put me in chains. I will wear these irons
until my king and queen shall order them removed, and I shall keep them always as relics and
memorials of my services.

It always makes us sad to see any one in great trouble. To hear of a great man who has fallen
low or of a rich man who has become poor, always makes us say: Is not that too bad? Columbus
had many enemies in Spain. The nobles of the court, the men who had lost money in voyages to
the Indies, the people whose fathers and sons and brothers had sailed away never to return,
could not say anything bad enough about "this upstart Italian," as they called Columbus.

But to the most of the people Columbus was still the great Admiral. He was the man who had
stuck to his one idea until he had made a friend of the queen; who had sailed away into the
West and proved the Sea of Darkness and the Jumping-off place to be only fairy tales after
all; who had found Cathay and the Indies for Spain. He was still a great man to the multitude.

So when on a certain October day, in the year 1500, it was spread abroad that a ship had just
come into the harbor of Cadiz, bringing home the great Admiral, Christopher Columbus, a prisoner
and in chains, folks began to talk at once. Why, who has done this? they cried. Is this the
way to treat the man who found Cathay for Spain, the man whom the king and the queen delighted
to honor, the man who made a procession for us with all sorts of birds and animals and pagan
Indians? It cannot be. Why, we all remember how he sailed into Palos Harbor eight years ago
and was received like a prince with banners and proclamations and salutes. And now to bring
him home in chains! It is a shame; it is cruel; it is wicked. And when people began to talk
in this way, the very ones who had said the worst things against him began to change their tone.

As soon as the ship got into Cadiz, Columbus sent off a letter to a friend of his at the court
in the beautiful city of Granada. This letter was, of course, shown to the queen. And it told
all about what Columbus had suffered, and was, so full of sorrow and humbleness and yet of
pride in what he had been able to do, even though he had been disgraced, that Queen Isabella
(who was really a friend to Columbus in spite of her dissatisfaction with the things he sometimes
did) became very angry at the way he had been treated.

She took the letter to King Ferdinand, and at once both the king and the queen hastened to
send a messenger to Columbus telling him how angry and sorry they were that Bobadilla should
have dared to treat their good friend the Admiral so. They ordered his immediate release from
imprisonment; they sent him a present of five thousand dollars and asked him to come to court
at once.

On the seventeenth of December, 1500, Columbus came to the court at Granada in the beautiful
palace of the Alhambra. He rode on a mule. At that time, in Spain, people were not allowed
to ride on mules, because if they did the Spanish horses would not be bought and sold, as mules
were so much cheaper and were easier to ride. But Columbus was sick and it hurt him to ride
horseback, while he could be fairly comfortable on an easy-going mule. So the king and queen
gave him special permission to come on mule-back.

When Columbus appeared before the queen, looking so sick and troubled, Isabella was greatly
affected. She thought of all he had done and all he had gone through and all he had suffered,
and as he came to the steps of the throne the queen burst into tears. She should seem to have
narrowly escaped some peril, and was carrying with her a secret not to be confided to friend
or stranger, certainly not to either without due consideration.

Had you watched her, as the crowds of people, returning from the various evening amusements, died
away in the streets, you would have seen the deep color of her cheeks die away also to deadly
paleness; had you been sufficiently clairvoyant, you might have seen how two charming rows of
pearls bit the blanched lips till the runaway blood came back into the sad gashes, how the
tears welled up again, and with them came relief and fresh strength
just as she was about to faint and drop in the street.

Then returned again the throb of indignant resolution, as her mind recurred to the attempted
ruin of her paradise by a disguised foe; then succeeded shame and dread lest the friends she had
left in her childhood's rural home should know how differently from her fond anticipations had
turned out the first week of her sojourn in the great city. She was most thoroughly resolved,
that, if possible, they should not know anything of the wreck of her long-cherished hopes till
she had found some foothold for new ones. She felt that she was a Yankee girl in the metropolis
of New England, with wit, skill, and endurance equal to any employment that ever falls to the
lot of Yankee women; but having given up the only chance which had ever opened to her, how could
she find another? Were she of the other sex, or only disguised in the outer integuments of
it, with the trifling sum in her purse, she would get lodgings at the next hotel, and seek suitable
employment without suspicion.

In the wide wilderness of a city there was not an acquaintance she did not dread to meet,
in her present circumstances, even worse than death itself, or, what
is next door to it, a police-station.

The
streets had emptied themselves of their rushing throngs, the patter of feet and the murmur of
voices had given place to measured individual marches here and there, the dripping of cave-spouts
and the flapping of awnings could be heard tattling of showers past and future, and the last organ-grinder
had left the ungrateful city to its slumbers, when the poor girl
first became conscious that she had been lugging hither and thither
her entire outfit of wardrobe, valuables, and keepsakes.

Aggravated by fatigue, her indecision as to how she should dispose of herself was gradually
sinking into despair, and the official guardians of the night, who had doubtless noticed her as
she passed and repassed through their beats, were beginning to make
up their official minds, generally and severally, that the case might
by-and-by require their benevolent interference, when she was startled
by a female voice from behind.

"Arrah, stop there, ye rinaway jade!

I know ye by yer big bag, ye big thafe, that ye are!"

Glad at any voice addressed to her, and gladder at this than if it had been more familiar or more
friendly, our forlorn maiden turned and said, in the sweetest voice
imaginable,-- "Oh, no, my friend, I am not a thief."

"Och, I beg your pardon, honey!

I thought sure it was Bridget, that's jist rin away wid a bagful of her misthress's clo'es and a
hape o'mine, and it's me that's bin all the way down to Pat Mahoney's
in North Street to git him to hunt her up; and the Blessed Mother forgive
me, whin I seen you in the dark, stalin'along like, wi'that bag, I
thought it was herself it was, sure. Och, ye're a swate lass, I see,
now; but what makes ye out this time o'night, dear?"

"Well, I'm too late for the train, you see, and I really don't know
what to do or where to go," said the Yankee girl, putting on the air
natural to such circumstances, with the readiness of her race.

"Och, I see, that's the mailing o'the bag, thin. Poor thing! ye jist
come along wid me. I'll lift the bag for ye, me darlint, an'I'll pit
clane sheets on Bridget's bed, and ye're welcome to slape there as
long as ye like; for the Blessed Mother knows it's powerful tired
ye're lookin', it is.

I'm cook for more nor twinty years for the Hopkinses in Bacon Street,
and I can make ye jist as welcome in my quarthers as if it was nobody
but meself that owned it at all at all."

"Oh, my dear woman, I thank you kindly! That bag was beginning to grow heavy," replied the overjoyed
outcast; and presently, with a ready eye to business, she added, "And since Bridget is gone, who knows
but I can take her place? I came to the city on purpose to find something to do, and I can
do anything that is not dishonest." "Och! the likes o'ye take her
place? Niver a bit of it! Why!

I see
by the gas-light ye're a leddy as iver was at all at all; and ye
could niver come in the shoes of sich a thafe as Bridget Maloney,
as is gone, and the Divil catch her!"

"No, no, not in her shoes to steal anything, I hope; but I can do housework, sweep, make beds,
sew, and make myself useful,-- as I will show, if I can have a trial." "An'ye may well say
that's a hape more nor she iver could. But if it's a thrial ye want, it's me that'll give't
ye as soon as ye plase.

I'll answer for ye's to Misthress Millicent,-- and that's what I niver did for Bridget, and
it's right glad I am of that. Now niver fear, me darlint, it's a
powerful good place, it is too, to thim as kapes the right side o'Misthress
Millicent; for she's the only daughter, and the mother is dead and
gone, poor soul!"

They were now approaching the opulent mansion over the cuisine of which our special police-woman
had so long had the honor of presiding.

Almost delighted enough with her capture to forget, if not forgive, her fugitive fellow-servant Bridget,
the florid and fat Aunt Peggy Muldoony hurried along as if the bag were a feather, her words flowing
like a spring flood, and introduced her charge at a postern-door into her own house, as she
called it. This was, in fact, a very comfortable and somewhat spacious
dwelling, which stood almost distinct in the rear of the mansion
in which the Hopkins family proper resided, so that there should
be ample accommodations for servants, and the steam of cooking could
not annoy the grand parlors.

Here we might leave the beautiful waif, so strangely picked up in the dark street, to the working
of her own genius. She had fallen into a place which had control of all the chamber-work of
a modern palace, with ample assistance. Aunt Peggy, her guardian angel, at once instructed her in the
routine of the duties, and she very soon had occasion to wonder how the care of so many beautiful
flowers, vases, statues, pictures, and objects of splendor and taste,
not to speak of beds that the Queen of Sheba might have envied, could
have been committed to a domestic who could be tempted to run away
with a few hundred dollars'worth of silks and laces.

The legal owner himself could hardly enjoy his well-appointed paradise better than she did, in keeping
every leaf up to its highest beauty. It must require a pretty strong dose of tyranny to drive
her away, she thought. But tyranny, if it were there, did not show itself. After a number of serious,
but vain attempts, on the part of Miss Millicent, to gratify her
curiosity by unravelling the mystery of her new servant, whose industry,
skill, and taste produced visible and very satisfactory effects in
every part of the mansion, she settled down to the conclusion, that,
finally, a treasure had fallen to her lot which it was best for her
to keep as carefully as possible and make the most of.

She could now smile and assume airs of great condescension when her worthy female friends complained
of careless, incompetent, and unfaithful domestics, and have the
pleasure of being teased in vain to know what she did to be so well
served.

The satisfaction of Miss Millicent at having found and attached to her service a young woman of such
superlative domestic genius and taste, who seemed to be so thoroughly contented with her situation,
was especially enhanced by the fact, that her own marriage was approaching, an occasion which any
bride of good sense would wish to have free from the annoyance of slack and untrustworthy Bridgets.
A few months after the period of which we have been speaking, the long-expected event of the last
paragraph was evidently on the eve of accomplishment. There was sitting in the distinguished
parlor of Mr. Hopkins, himself, occupying an easy-chair of the most
elaborate design and costly materials.

It had all manner of extensibilities,-- conveniences for reclining the trunk or any given limb at
any possible angle,-- conveniences for sleeping, for writing, for reading,
for taking snuff,-- and was, withal, a marvel of upholstery-workmanship and
substantial strength. Another still more exquisite combination of rosewood,
velvet, spiral springs, and cunning floral carving, presenting a
striking resemblance to that great ornament of the English alphabet,
the letter S, held Miss Millicent Hopkins, in one curve, face to
face with Mr. Chipworth Dartmouth, already known to the reader, in
the other.

Near by the half-recumbent millionnaire, at a little gem of a lady's writing-desk, sat Mr. Frank Sterling,
the junior partner of the distinguished law-firm of Trevor and Sterling, engaged in reading
to all the parties aforesaid a very ingenious and interesting document,
which he had drawn up, according to the general dictation of Mr. Hopkins
aforesaid.

It was, in fact, a marriage-settlement, of which the three beautifully engrossed copies were
to be signed and sealed by all the parties in interest, and each was to possess a copy. Frank
Sterling read over the paragraphs which settled enormous masses of funds around the sacred altar where
Hymen was so soon to apply his torch, with great professional coolness,
as well as commendable rapidity; but when he came to the conclusion,
and, looking at both father and daughter, said, that all that remained,
if the draught now met their approbation, was, to have witnesses called
in and add the signatures, he betrayed a little personal feeling,
which it behooves the reader to understand.

Frank Sterling, though one of the best fellows in the world, with a joyous face, a bright eye,
a hearty laugh, and the keenest possible relish for everything beautiful and good, was a bachelor,
because a mate quite to his judgment and taste had never fallen in
his way.

With Mr. Hopkins, he had been, for a year or two, a favorite lawyer. Professional business had often
brought him to the house, and at Miss Millicent's parties he had often
been a specially licensed guest. There had been a time, he felt quite
sure, when, if he had pushed a suit, he could have put his name where
that of Dartmouth stood in the marriage-settlement, and, as he glanced
at Miss Millicent, as she sat in the mellow light of the purplish
plate-glass of that superb parlor, she seemed so beautiful and queenly
that he almost wished he had done it.

Was it quite fit that such a woman should be thrown away upon one of the mere beasts of the stock-market?
The air with which Chip took his victory was so exactly like that matter-of-course chuckle
with which he would have tossed over the proceeds of a shrewd bargain into his bank-account, that the
young lawyer's soul was shocked at it, and he almost wished he had prevented such a shame. However,
his discretion came to the rescue, and told him he had done right
in not linking his fortunes to a woman who, however beautiful, was too
passive in her character to make any man positively happy. Had it been his
ambition to spend his life in burning incense to an exquisitely chiselled
goddess, here was a chance, to be sure, where he could have done
it on a salary that would have satisfied a pontifex maximus; but,
with a fair share of the regard for money which characterizes his
profession, Mr. Sterling never could make up his mind to become a
suitor for the hand of Miss Millicent, nor get rid of the notion that
he was to bless and be blessed by some woman of positive character
and a taste for working out her own salvation in her own way,-- some
woman who, not being made by her wealth, could not be unmade by the
loss of it.

It was, therefore, only a momentary sense of choking he experienced, as he laid the manuscripts
on the leaf of Mr. Hopkins's chair, and said,-- "Shall I ring the
bell, Sir?"

"If you please, Mr. Sterling. Now, Millicent, dear, whose name shall have the honor of standing
as witness on this document? There is Aunt Peggy,-- is good at using pothooks, but not so good at making them.
Her mark won't exactly do." "Why, father! I shall, of course, have
my little favorite, Lucy Green; her signature will be perfectly beautiful.
And by the way, Mr. Dartmouth, here is a thing I haven't thought of
before. With this Lucy of mine for an attendant, I am worth about twice
as much as I should have been without her, and yet no mention has
been made of this in the bargain."

"Ha! ha!" said Chip. "Thought of in good time. Let Mr. Sterling add the item at once. I am content."
"First, however, you shall see the good girl herself, Mr. Dartmouth, and
then we can have a postscript-- or should I say a codicil?-- on her
account.

John, please say to Lucy, I wish her to come to me.

After all the stocks and bonds in the world, Mr. Dartmouth, our lives are what our servants please to
make them." "True, indeed, my love; but the comfort is, if we are well stocked with bonds of the right
sort, servants that don't suit can be changed for those that do." "And the more changes, the
worse, commonly;-- an exception is so rare, I dread nothing like change. The chance of improving
a bad one is even better, I think." "I don't believe there is anything
good in the flunkey line that money won't buy.

I have always found I could have anything I wanted, if I saw fit to pay its price. Money, no
matter what simpletons preach, money, my dear, is"---- "Why, Lucy, what is the matter?" exclaimed
Miss Millicent, with some surprise and anxiety, as she saw the girl, who had just entered, instead of
advancing, awkwardly shrink on one side into a chair behind the door,
with a shudder, as if she had trod on a reptile.

The next moment she was at her side, earnestly whispering something in her ear, evidently an
explanation of the circumstances of the case, to which Lucy had hitherto been an entire stranger. "Pray,
excuse me, Ma'am," was the girl's scarce audible response to some request. "It is only to write
your name, Lucy." "Not to such a paper, for the world!" "Not to
oblige me?" "I would do anything, Ma'am, to oblige you, but that
would not. Never! never!" said the excited girl, catching another
glimpse of Chip, who was now looking obliquely at the whispering
couple, and drumming with his fingers on the rosewood of that part of
the letter S from which his intended had just risen, as if he were
hurriedly beating a reveille to rally his faltering impudence. "No,
Ma'am;-- it is too bad, it is too bad, it is too"---- Here her utterance
became choked, her cheeks pallid as death, and her form wilted and
fell like a flower before the mower's scythe.

Millicent prevented the fall, while Sterling rang for water, and Chip, peering about with more
agitation than any one else, finally remarked,-- "The girl must be
sick;-- better take her out."

The young lawyer, with the aid of a servant, did bear her to another
apartment, where, after the usual time and restoratives, she recovered
her consciousness, and the maiden blood again revealed tints that
the queen of flowers might envy.

Chip and the millionnaire remained in the parlor, while the others were taking care of the proposed
witness, and great was the anxiety of the former that their absence should not be prolonged.
Suddenly he recollected a forgotten engagement of great importance,
pulled out his watch, fidgeted, suggested that the lawyer and Miss
Millicent should be recalled, that the papers might be signed before
he went.

Mr. Hopkins was of that opinion, and sent a servant to call them.

Columbus, too, began to grow uneasy. His youngest son, Ferdinand, a brave, bright little fellow
of thirteen, had come with him on this voyage, and Columbus really began to be afraid that
something might happen to the boy, especially if the crazy ships should be wrecked, or if want
of food should make them all go hungry. So at last he decided to give up hunting for the strait
that should lead him into the Bay of Bengal; he felt obliged, also, to give up his plan of
going back to the Honduras coast for gold and pearls. He turned his ships about and headed
for Hayti where he hoped he could get Governor Ovando to give him better ships so that he could
try it all over again.

Here, you see, was still another disappointing defeat for Columbus. For after he had been on
the American coast for almost a year; after he had come so near to what he felt to be the long-looked-for
path to the Indies; after most wonderful adventures on sea and land, he turned his back on
it all, without really having accomplished what he set out to do and, as I have told you, steered
for Hayti.

But it was not at all easy to get to Hayti in those leaky ships of his. In fact it was not
possible to get there with them at all; for on the twenty-third of June, 1503, when he had
reached the island of Jamaica he felt that his ships would not hold out any longer. They were
full of worm-holes; they were leaking badly; they were strained and battered from the storms.
He determined, therefore, to find a good harbor somewhere on the island of Jamaica and go in
there for repairs. But he could not find a good one; his ships grew worse and worse; every
day's delay was dangerous; and for fear the ships would sink and carry the crews to the bottom
of the sea, Columbus decided to run them ashore anyhow. This he did; and on the twelfth of
August, 1503, he deliberately headed for the shore and ran his ships aground in a little bay
on the island of Jamaica still known as Sir Christopher's Cove. And there the fleet was wrecked.

The castaways lashed the four wrecks together; they built deck-houses and protections so as
to make themselves as comfortable as possible, and for a whole year Columbus and his men lived
there at Sir Christopher's Cove on the beautiful island of Jamaica.

It proved anything but beautiful for them, however. It makes a good deal of difference, you
know, in enjoying things whether you are well and happy. If you are hungry and can't get anything
to eat, the sky does not look so blue or the trees so green as if you were sitting beneath
them with a jolly picnic party and with plenty of lunch in the baskets.

It was no picnic for Columbus and his companions. That year on the island of Jamaica was one
of horror, of peril, of sickness, of starvation. Twice, a brave comrade named Diego Mendez
started in an open boat for Hayti to bring relief. The first time he was nearly shipwrecked,
but the second time he got away all right. And then for months nothing was heard of him, and
it was supposed that he had been drowned. But the truth was that Governor Ovando, had an idea
that the king and queen of Spain were tired of Columbus and would not feel very bad if they
never saw him again. He promised to send help, but did not do so for fear he should get into
trouble. And the relief that the poor shipwrecked people on Jamaica longed for did not come.

Then some of the men who were with Columbus mutinied and ran away. In fact, more things happened
during this remarkable fourth voyage of Columbus than I can begin to tell you about. The story
is more wonderful than is that of Robinson Crusoe, and when you are older you must certainly
read it all and see just what marvelous adventures Columbus and his men met with and how bravely
the little Ferdinand Columbus went through them all. For when Ferdinand grew up he wrote a
life of his father, the Admiral, and told the story of how they all played Robinson Crusoe
at Sir Christopher's Cove.

At last the long-delayed help was sent by Governor Ovando, and one day the brave Diego Mendez
came sailing into Sir Christopher's Cove. Sauviat, and above all the Gregoire Gerards watched
over his boyhood at Montegnac.

[The Country Parson.] GRASSET, bailiff and successor of Louchard. On the demand of Lisbeth
Fischer and by Rivet's advice, in 1838, he arrested W. Steinbock
in Paris and took him to Clichy prison.

[Cousin
Betty.] GRASSINS (Des), ex-quartermaster of the Guard, seriously wounded at Austerlitz, pensioned
and decorated. Time of Louis XVIII. he became the richest banker in Saumur, which he left for Paris where
he located with the purpose of settling the unfortunate affairs of the suicide, Guillaume
Grandet and where he was later made a deputy. Although the father of a family he conceived a
passion for Florine, a pretty actress of the Theatre du Madame,*
to the havoc of his fortune.

[Eugenie Grandet.]* The name of this theatre was changed, in 1830,
to Gymnase-Dramatique.

GRASSINS (Madame des), born about 1780; wife of foregoing, giving
him two children; spent most of her life at Saumur.

Her husband's position and sundry physical charms which she was able to preserve till nearly her
fortieth year enabled her to shine somewhat in society. With the Cruchots she often visited
the Grandets, and, like the family of the President de Bonfons, she dreamed
of mating Eugenie with her son Adolphe.

The dissipated life of her husband at Paris and the combination of the Cruchots upset her plans. Nor
was she able to do much for her daughter. However, deprived of much of her property and making
the best of things, Mme. des Grassins continued unaided the management of the bank at Saumur. [Eugenie
Grandet.] GRASSINS (Adolphe des), born in 1797, son of M. and Mme.
des Grassins; studied law at Paris where he lived in a lavish way.
A caller at the Nucingens where he met Charles Grandet.

Returned to Saumur in 1819 and vainly courted Eugenie Grandet.

Finally he returned to Paris and rejoined his father whose wild life he imitated. [Eugenie Grandet.]
GRASSOU (Pierre), born at Fougeres, Brittany, in 1795. Son of a Vendean peasant and militant Royalist.
Removing at an early age to Paris he began as clerk to a paint-dealer
who was from Mayenne and a distant relative of the Orgemonts.

A mistaken idea led him toward art. His Breton stubbornness led him
successively to the studios of Servin, Schinner and Sommervieux.

He afterwards
studied, but fruitlessly, the works of Granet and Drolling; then he completed his art studies with Duval-Lecamus.
Grassou profited nothing by his work with these masters, nor did his acquaintance with Lora or
Joseph Bridau assist him. Though he could understand and admire he lacked the creative faculty
and the skill in execution.

For this reason Grassou, usually called Fougeres by his comrades, obtained their warm support
and succeeded in getting admission into the Salon of 1829, for his
"Toilet of a Condemned Chouan," a very mediocre painting palpably
along the lines of Gerard Dow.

The work obtained for him from Charles X. the cross of the Legion of Honor. At last his canvasses
found purchasers. Elie Magus gave him an order for pictures after the Flemish school, which he sold
to Vervelle as works of Dow or Teniers.

At that time Grassou lived at No. 2 rue de Navarin. He became the son-in-law of Vervelle, in
1832, marrying Virginie Vervelle, the heiress of the family, who brought him a dowry of one hundred
thousand francs, as well as country and city property. His determined mediocrity opened the doors
of the Academy to him and made him an officer in the Legion of Honor in 1830, and major of a battalion
in the National Guard after the riots of May 12. He was adored by the middle classes, becoming
their accredited artist.

Painted portraits of all the members of the Crevel and Thuillier families, and also of the director
of the theatre who preceded Gaudissart. Left many frightful and ridiculous daubs, one of which
found its way into Topinard's humble home. Wife of the preceding whom she married in Paris in 1832.
There is a portrait of her painted in this same year before her marriage,
which at first was a colorless study by Grassou, but was dexterously
retouched by Joseph Bridau.

[Pierre Grassou.] GRAVELOT brothers, lumber-merchants of Paris, who
purchased in 1823 the forests of Aigues, the Burgundy estate of General
de Montcornet.

[The Peasantry.] GRAVIER, paymaster-general of the army during the first Empire, and interested
at that time in large Spanish affairs with certain commanding officers. Upon the return of the
Bourbons he purchased at twenty thousand francs of La Baudraye the office of tax-receiver for Sancerres,
which office he still held about 1836.

With the Abbe Duret and others he frequented the home of Mme. Dinah de la Baudraye. He was little,
fat and common. His court made little way with the baroness, despite
his talent and his worldly-wise ways of a bachelor.

He sang
ballads, told stories, and displayed pseudo-rare autographs. [The Muse of the Department.] GRAVIER,
of Grenoble; head of a family; father-in-law of a notary; chief of
division of the prefecture of Isere in 1829.

Knew Genestas and recommended to him Dr. Benassis, the mayor of the village of which he himself
was one of the benefactors, as the one to attend Adrien Genestas-Renard. [The Country Doctor.]
GRENIER, known as Fleur-de-Genet; deserter from the Sixty-ninth demi-brigade; chauffeur executed in
1809.

[The Seamy Side of History.] GRENOUVILLE, proprietor of a large and splendid notion store in Boulevard
des Italiens, Paris, about 1840; a customer of the Bijous, embroiderers also in business at Paris. At
this time an ardent admirer of Mlle. Olympe Bijou, former mistress of Baron Hulot and Idamore
Chardin.

He married her and gave an income to her parents. [Cousin Betty.] GRENOUVILLE (Madame), wife
of the preceding; born Olympe Bijou, about 1824. In the middle of the reign of Louis Philippe she
lived in Paris near La Courtille, in rue Saint-Maur-du-Temple. Was a pretty but poor embroiderer surrounded
by a numerous and poverty-stricken family when Josepha Mirah obtained
for her old Baron Hulot and a shop.

Having abandoned Hulot for Idamore Chardin, who left her, Olympe married Grenouville and became
a well-known tradeswoman.

[Cousin Betty.] GRENVILLE (Arthur-Ormond, Lord), wealthy Englishman; was being treated at Montpellier
for lung trouble when the rupture of the treaty of peace of Amiens confined him to Tours. About
1814 he fell in love with the Marquise Victor d'Aiglemont, whom he afterwards met elsewhere. Posing
as a physician he attended her in an illness and succeeded in curing
her.

He visited her also in Paris, finally dying to save her honor, after
suffering his fingers to be crushed in a door-- 1823.

[A Woman of Thirty.] GREVIN of Arcis, Aube, began life in the same way as his compatriot and
intimate friend Malin de Gondreville. In 1787, he was second clerk to Maitre Bordin, attorney
of the Chatelet, Paris. Returned to Champagne at the outbreak of the Revolution. There he received
the successive protection of Danton, Bonaparte and Gondreville. By virtue of them he became an
oracle to the Liberals, was enabled to marry Mlle.

Varlet, the only daughter of the best physician of the city, to purchase a notary's practice,
and to become wealthy. A level-headed man, Grevin often advised Gondreville, and he directed
the mysterious and fictitious abduction-- 1803 and the years following. Of his union with Mlle.
Varlet, who died rather young, one daughter was born, Severine, who became Mme. Phileas Beauvisage.
In his old age he devoted a great deal of attention to his children and their brilliant future, especially
during the election of May, 1839.

[A Start in Life. The Gondreville Mystery. The Member for Arcis.] GREVIN (Madame), wife of foregoing;
born Varlet; daughter of the best doctor of Arcis-sur-Aube; sister
of another Varlet, a doctor in the same town; mother of Mme.

Severine Phileas Beauvisage. With Mme. Marion she was more or less implicated in the Gondreville mystery.
She died rather young. [The Gondreville Mystery.] GREVIN, corsair, who served under Admiral de Simeuse
in the Indies. In 1816, paralyzed and deaf, he lived with his granddaughter, Mme. Lardot, a
laundress of Alencon, who employed Cesarine and Suzanne and was patronized by the Chevalier de Valois.
[Jealousies of a Country Town.] GRIBEAUCOURT (Mademoiselle de), old
maid of Saumur and friend of the Cruchots during the Restoration.

[Eugenie Grandet.] GRIFFITH (Miss), born in 1787; Scotch woman, daughter of a minister in straitened
circumstances; under the Restoration she was governess of Louise de Chaulieu, whose love she won
by reason of her kindliness and penetration. [Letters of Two Brides.] GRIGNAULT (Sophie). (See
Nathan, Mme. Raoul.) GRIMBERT, held, in 1819, at Ruffec, Charente, the office of the Royal Couriers.
At that time he received from Mlles.

Laure and Agathe de Rastignac, a considerable sum of money addressed
to their brother Eugene, at the Pension Vauquer, Paris.

[Father Goriot.] GRIMONT, born about 1786; a priest of some capability; cure of Guerande, Brittany. In
1836, a constant visitor at the Guenics, he exerted a tardily acquired influence over Felicite
des Touches, whose disappointments in love he fathomed and whom he determined to turn towards a religious
life.

Her conversion gave Grimont the vicar-generalship of the diocese of Nantes. [Beatrix.] GRIMPEL,
physician at Paris in the Pantheon quarter, time of Louis XVIII. Among his patients was Mme. Vauquer,
who sent for him to attend Vautrin when the latter was overcome by
a narcotic treacherously administered by Mlle.

Michonneau.

[Father Goriot.] GRINDOT, French architect in the first half of the nineteenth century; won the Roman
prize in 1814.

His talent, which met the approval of the Academy, was heartily recognized by the masses of Paris.
About the end of 1818 Cesar Birotteau gave him carte-blanche in the
remodeling of his apartments on rue Saint-Honore, and invited him
to his ball.

Matifat, between the years 1821 and 1822, commissioned him to ornament
the suite of Mme.

Raoul Nathan on rue de Bondy.

The Comte de Serizy employed him likewise in 1822 in the restoration of his chateau of Presles
near Beaumont-sur-Oise. About 1829 Grindot embellished a little house on rue Saint-Georges where
successively dwelt Suzanne Gaillard and Esther van Gobseck.

Time of Louis Philippe, Arthur de Rochefide, and M. and Mme.

Fabien du Ronceret gave him contracts. His decline and that of the monarchy coincided. He was no longer
in vogue during the July government. On motion of Chaffaroux he received twenty-five thousand francs
for the decoration of four rooms of Thuillier's. Lastly Crevel, an imitator and grinder, utilized
Grindot on rue des Saussaies, rue du Dauphin and rue Barbet-de-Jouy
for his official and secret habitations.

Montcornet, mayor of that commune arranged a marriage between the
old soldier and the orphan daughter of one of his farmers who brought
him three acres of vineyards.

[The Peasantry.] GROS (Antoine-Jean), celebrated painter born in Paris in 1771, drowned himself
June, 1835. Was the teacher of Joseph Bridau and, despite his parsimonious habits, supplied materials--
about 1818-- to the future painter of "The Venetian Senator and the
Courtesan" enabling him to obtain five thousand francs from a double
government position.

[A Bachelor's Establishment.] GROSLIER, police commissioner of Arcis-sur-Aube at the beginning
of the electoral campaign of 1839. [The Member for Arcis.] GROSMORT, small boy of Alencon in 1816.
Left the town in that year and went to Prebaudet, an estate of Mme. du Bousquier, to tell her
of Troisville's arrival.

[Jealousies of a Country Town.] GROSS-NARP (Comte de), son-in-law, no doubt fictitious, of a very
great lady, invented and represented by Jacqueline Collin to serve the menaced interests of Jacques
Collin in Paris about the end of the Restoration. [Scenes from a Courtesan's Life.] GROSSTETE (F.),
director, with Perret, of a Limoges banking-house, during the Empire
and Restoration.

His clerk and successor was Pierre Graslin. Retired from business, a married man, wealthy, devoted
to horticulture, he spent much of his time in the fields in the outskirts of Limoges. Endowed with a
superior intellect, he seemed to understand Veronique Graslin, whose society he sought and whose
secrets he tried to fathom. He introduced his godson, Gregoire Gerard,
to her. [The Country Parson.] GROSSTETE (Madame F.), wife of preceding;
a person of some importance in Limoges, time of the Restoration.

[The Country Parson.] GROSSTETE, younger brother of F. Grosstete. Receiver-general at Bourges
during the Restoration. He had a large fortune which enabled his
daughter Anna to wed a Fontaine about 1823.

[The Country Parson. The Muse of the Department.] GROZIER (Abbe) was chosen,
in the early part of the Restoration, to arbitrate the dispute of
two proof-readers-- one of whom was Saint-Simon-- over Chinese paper.

He proved that the Chinese make their paper from bamboo. [Lost Illusions.] He was librarian of the
Arsenal at Paris. Was tutor of the Marquis d'Espard. Was learned in the history and manners of
China. Taught this knowledge to his pupil.

[The Commission in Lunacy.]** Abbe Grozier, or Crozier (Jean Baptiste-Gabriel-Alexandre),
born March 1, 1743, at Saint-Omer, died December 8, 1823, at Paris;
collaborator of the "Literary Year" with Freron and Geoffroy, and
author of a "General History of China"-- Paris 1777-1784, 12 vols.

GRUGET (Madame Etienne), born in the latter part of the eighteenth
century.

About 1820, lace-maker at No. 12 rue des Enfants-Rouges, Paris, where she concealed and cared for Gratien
Bourignard, the lover of her daughter Ida, who drowned herself.

Bourignard was the father of Mme.

Jules Desmarets. [The Thirteen.] Becoming a nurse about the end of 1824, Mme. Gruget attended
the division-chief, La Billiardiere, in his final sickness. [The Government Clerks.] In 1828 she
followed the same profession for ten sous a day, including board.

At that time she attended the last illness of Comtesse Flore Philippe
de Brambourg, on rue Chaussee-d'Antin, before the invalid was removed
to the Dubois hospital.

[A Bachelor's Establishment.] GRUGET (Ida), daughter of the preceding. About 1820 was a corset-fitter
at No. 14 rue de la Corderie-du-Temple, Paris; employed by Mme.

Meynardie. She was also the mistress of Gatien Bourignard. Passionately jealous, she rashly made
a scene in the home of Jules Desmarets, her lover's son-in-law. Then she drowned herself, in a fit of
despair, and was buried in a little cemetery of a village of Seine-et-Oise. [The Thirteen.] GUA
SAINT-CYR (Madame du), in spite of the improbability aroused on account
of her age, passed for a time, in 1799, as the mother of Alphonse
de Montauran.

She had been married and was then a widow; Gua was not her true name. She was the last mistress of Charette
and, being still young, took his place with the youthful Alphonse
de Montauran.

She displayed a savage jealousy for Mlle. de Verneuil. One of the first Vendean sallies of 1799,
planned by Mme. du Gua, was unsuccessful and absurd. The old "mare of Charette" caused the coach
between Mayenne and Fougeres to be waylaid; but the money stolen
was that which was being sent her by her mother.

[The Chouans.] GUA SAINT-CYR (Du), name assumed in Brittany, in 1799,
by Alphonse de Montauran, the Chouan leader.

[The Chouans.] GUA SAINT-CYR (Monsieur and Madame du), son and mother; rightful bearers of the
name were murdered, with the courier, in November by the Chouans. [The Chouans.] GUDIN (Abbe),
born about 1759; was one of the Chouan leaders in 1799. He was a formidable fellow, one of
the Jesuits stubborn enough, perhaps devoted enough, to oppose upon French soil the proscriptive
edict of 1793.

This firebrand of Western conflict fell, slain by the Blues, almost under the eyes of his patriot
nephew, the sub-lieutenant, Gudin. [The Chouans.] GUDIN, nephew of the preceding, and nevertheless
a patriot conscript from Fougeres, Brittany, during the campaign
of 1799; successively corporal and sub-lieutenant.

The former grade was obtained through Hulot. Was the superior of Beau-Pied. Gudin was killed near
Fougeres by Marie de Verneuil, who had assumed the attire of her husband, Alphonse de Montauran.
[The Chouans.] GUENEE (Madame). (See Galardon, Madame.) GUENIC (Gaudebert-Calyste-Charles,
Baron du), born in 1763. Head of a Breton house of very ancient founding,
he justified throughout his long life the device upon his coat-of-arms,
which read: "Fac!"

Without hope of reward he constantly defended, in Vendee and Brittany, his God and his king by service
as private soldier and captain, with Charette, Chatelineau, La Rochejacquelein, Elbee, Bonchamp
and the Prince of Loudon. Was one of the commanders of the campaign of 1799 when he bore the name
of "L'Intime," and was, with Bauvan, a witness to the marriage in
extremis of Alphonse de Montauran and Marie de Verneuil.

Three years later he went to Ireland, where he married Miss Fanny O'Brien, of a noble family
of that country. Events of 1814 permitted his return to Guerande, Loire-Inferieure,
where his house, though impoverished, wielded great influence.

In recognition of his unfaltering devotion to the Royalist cause, M. du Guenic received only the Cross
of Saint-Louis. Incapable of protesting, he intrepidly defended his town against the battalions
of General Travot in the following year.

The final Chouan insurrection, that of 1832, called him to arms once again. Accompanied by Calyste,
his only son, and a servant, Gasselin, he returned to Guerande, lived there for some years, despite
his numerous wounds, and died suddenly, at the age of seventy-four, in 1837. [The Chouans.
Beatrix.] GUENIC (Baronne du), wife of the preceding; native of Ireland; born Fanny O'Brien, about
1793, of aristocratic lineage. Poor and surrounded by wealthy relatives, beautiful and distinguished, she
married, in 1813, Baron du Guenic, following him the succeeding year to Guerande and devoting
her life and youth to him. She bore one son, Calyste, to whom she
was more like an elder sister.

She
watched closely the two mistresses of the young man, and finally understood Felicite des Touches; but
she always was in a tremor on account of Beatrix de Rochefide, even
after the marriage of Calyste, which took place in the year of the
baron's death.

[Beatrix.] GUENIC (Gaudebert-Calyste-Louis du), probably born in 1815, at
Guerande, Loire-Inferieure; only son of the foregoing, by whom he
was adored, and to whose dual influence he was subject.

He was the physical and moral replica of his mother.

His father wished to make him a gentleman of the old school. In 1832 he fought for the heir of the
Bourbons. He had other aspirations which he was able to satisfy at the
home of an illustrious chatelaine of the vicinity, Mlle.

Felicite des Touches. The chevalier was much enamored of the celebrated authoress, who had great
influence over him, did not accept him and turned him over to Mme.
de Rochefide.

Beatrix played with the heir of the house of Guenic the same ill-starred comedy carried through
by Antoinette de Langeais with regard to Montriveau. Calyste married Mlle. Sabine de Grandlieu,
and took the title of baron after his father's death. He lived in Paris on Faubourg Saint-Germain,
and between 1838 and 1840 was acquainted with Georges de Maufrigneuse,
Savinien de Portenduere, the Rhetores, the Lenoncourt-Chaulieus and
Mme. de Rochefide-- whose lover he finally became.

The intervention of the Duchesse de Grandlieu put an end to this
love affair.

[Beatrix.] GUENIC (Madame Calyste du), born Sabine de Grandlieu; wife of the preceding, whom she married
about 1837. Nearly three years later she was in danger of dying upon hearing, at her confinement,
that she had a fortunate rival in the person of Beatrix de Rochefide. [Beatrix.] GUENIC (Zephirine
du) born in 1756 at Guerande; lived almost all her life with her younger brother,
the Baron du Guenic, whose ideas, principles and opinions she shared.

She dreamed of a rehabilitation of her improverished house, and pushed her economy to the
point of refusng to undergo an operation for cataract. For a long time she wished that Mlle. Charlotte
de Kergarouet might become her niece by marriage. [Beatrix.] GUEPIN, of Provins, located in Paris.
He had at the "Trois Quenouilles" one of the largest draper's shops on rue Saint-Denis. His
head-clerk was his compatriot, Jerome-Denis Rogron. In 1815, he turned over his business to his
grandson and returned to Provins, where his family formed a clan.

Later Rogron retired also and rejoined him there. [Pierrette.] GUERBET, wealthy farmer in the country
near Ville-aux-Fayes; married, in the last of the eighteenth or first of the nineteenth century,
the only daughter of Mouchon junior, then postmaster of Conches, Burgundy. After the death of
his father-in-law, about 1817, he succeeded to the office. [The Peasantry.] GUERBET, brother of the foregoing,
and related to the Gaubertins and Gendrins.

Rich tax-collector of Soulanges, Burgundy. Stout, dumpy fellow with a butter face, wig, earrings,
and immense collars; given to pomology; was the wit of the village and one of the lions of Mme. Soudry's
salon. [The Peasantry.] GUERBET, circuit judge of Ville-aux-Fayes, Burgundy, in 1823. Like his
uncle, the postmaster, and his father, the tax-collector, he was entirely devoted to Gaubertin.
[The Peasantry.] GUILLAUME, in the course of, or at the end of the eighteenth century, began
as clerk to Chevrel, draper, on rue Saint-Denis, Paris, "at the Sign of the Cat and Racket";
afterwards became his son-in-law, succeeded him, became wealthy and
retired, during the first Empire, after marrying off his two daughters,
Virginie and Augustine, in the same day.

He became member of the Consultation Committee for the uniforming of the troops, changed his home,
living in a house of his own on rue du Colombier, was intimate with the
Ragons and the Birotteaus, being invited with his wife to the ball
given by the latter.

[At the Sign of the Cat and Racket. Cesar Birotteau.] GUILLAUME (Madame), wife of the preceding;
born Chevrel; cousin of Mme. Roguin; a stiff-necked, middle-class woman, who was scandalized
by the marriage of her second daughter, Augustine, with Theodore de Sommervieux. [At the Sign
of the Cat and Racket.] GUILLAUME, servant of Marquis d'Aiglemont in 1823. [A Woman of Thirty.]
GUINARD (Abbe), priest of Sancerre in 1836. [The Muse of the Department.] GYAS (Marquise de),
lived at Bordeaux during the Restoration; gave much thought to marrying off her daughter, and, being
intimate with Mme. Evangelista, felt hurt when Natalie Evangelista married Paul de Manerville
in 1822. However, the Marquis de Gyas was one of the witnesses at the wedding. [A Marriage Settlement.]
H HABERT (Abbe), vicar at Provins under the Restoration; a stern, ambitious prelate, a source of
annoyance to Vinet; dreamed of marrying his sister Celeste to Jerome-Denis
Rogron. [Pierrette.] HABERT (Celeste), sister of the preceding; born
about 1797; managed a girls'boarding-school at Provins, in the closing
years of Charles X.'s reign.

Visited at the Rogrons. Gouraud and Vinet
shunned her. [Pierrette.] HADOT (Madame), who lived at La Charite,
Nievre, in 1836, was mistaken for Mme. Barthelemy-Hadot, the French
novelist, whose name was mentioned at Mme. de la Baudraye's, near Sancerre.
[The Muse of the Department.] HALGA (Chevalier du), naval officer
greatly esteemed by Suffren and Portenduere; captain of Kergarouet's
flagship; lover of that admiral's wife, whom he survived. Spanish blood has peopled, but not uplifted,
the countries of South America and the Spanish Main. English blood, which, following after--because
Columbus had first shown the way--peopled, saved and upbuilt the whole magnificent northern
land that Spain missed and lost. They have found in it more gold than ever Columbus dreamed
of in his never-found Cathay; they have filled it with a nobler, braver, mightier, and more
numerous people than ever Columbus imagined the whole mysterious land of the Indies contained;
they have made it the home of freedom, of peace, of education, of intelligence and of progress,
and have protected and bettered it until the whole world respects it for its strength, honors
it for its patriotism, admires it for its energy, and marvels at it for its prosperity.

And this is what a flying parrot did: It turned the tide of lawless adventure, of gold-hunting,
of slave-driving, and of selfish strife for gain to the south; it left the north yet unvisited
until it was ready for the strong, and sturdy, and determined men and women who, hunting for
liberty, came across the seas and founded the colonies that became in time the free and independent
republic of the United States of America.

And thus has the story of Columbus really turned out. Happier than any fairy tale, more marvelous
than any wonder book, the story of the United States of America is one that begins, "Once upon
a time," and has come to the point where it depends upon the boys and girls who read it, to
say whether or not they shall "live happily ever after."

The four hundred years of the New World's life closed its chapter of happiness in the electric
lights and brilliant sunshine of the marvelous White City by Lake Michigan. It is a continued
story of daring, devotion and progress, that the boys and girls of America should never tire
of reading. And this story was made possible and turned out so well, because of the briefer,
but no less interesting story of the daring, the devotion and the faith of the determined Genoese
sailor of four hundred years ago, whom men knew as Don Christopher Columbus, the Admiral of
the Ocean Seas.

