Had this great event occurred even in a land of strangers, unendeared to us by any previous
act of kindness, and having no other claim upon our sympathies than that they belonged to the
same family of human beings with ourselves, it would still have been cause of private joy to
each individual among us; for it would have borne evidence of the progress of liberty in the
world. But it is not in a land of strangers, it is not in a country unendeared to us by previous
acts of kindness that it has occurred. It is in France, our ancient friend and ally: in France,
who stood by us in the darkest days of our own revolution; in France, by the powerful aid of
whose fleets and armies, the last ensign of British authority was struck in our land, and we
took our undisputed place among the nations of the earth. Yes, it is in France, the land of
our benefactors and friends, that this spectacle has been exhibited. And such a spectacle!
unparalleled in the history of the world! A nation of more than thirty millions of people emancipated
by the efforts of a single city in three days! Not by a great body of lords and barons, cased
in armour of iron, and with well appointed hosts of vassals at their backs: but by the common
body of the citizens of Paris; the labouring classes--mechanics--manufacturers--merchants--boys
from the Polytechnic school; rushing naked and unarmed, upon the armed bands of the king; without
a leader to direct their movements, and yet moving with a judgment, a concert, an energy that
would have done honor to the ablest general; and, at the same time, with a moderation, a humanity,
an integrity, a respect for private property and private feelings that would have graced the
noblest school of philosophers in ancient times, or of christians in modern; finishing the
whole stupendous operation in three days, and then returning, quietly and peaceably to their
respective occupations, and committing the details of their political arrangements to their
more experienced friends!

In the stern decision, in the rapid and resistless execution, in the thorough accomplishment
of the purpose, and in the sudden and perfect calm that succeeded, tyrants may read a lesson
that may well make them tremble on their thrones; for they see that it is only for the people
to resolve, and it is done.

Had this story been told to us by some writer of romance, as the product of his own imagination,
there is not a man among us who would not have condemned it as unnatural, improbable, a mere
extravagance entirely out of keeping with the human character. And yet the thing has actually
taken place; the work has been done, and well and nobly done.

The French have sometimes been spoken of as a light people, without depth or stability of character.
Let those who thus describe them, open the annals of England (the Rome of modern times) and
shew us there, a movement, from the period of their invasion by Julius Cæsar to the present
day, that can match this magnificent movement of the common people of Paris. No. In the enlightened
motive, in the station of the actors, in the character of the action itself, and in its beautiful
consummation, there is nothing in the archives of history, ancient or modern, nor even in the
volumes of the boldest and wildest imagination, that will bear a comparison. It was for liberty
they struck, and the blow was the bolt of heaven. The throne of the tyrant fell before it.
The work was done: and all was peace. Well may we be proud to claim such a people as our friends
and allies, and to unite in this public demonstration of joy at their triumph.

To give us a still deeper interest in the transaction, whom do we see mingling brilliantly
in the conflict, partaking of the triumph, and benevolently tempering and guiding its results?
Lafayette, our own Lafayette, the brave, the good, the friend of man. Well may we call him
our own: for he gave to us the flower of his youth! freely sacrificed the splendors of a court,
all the pleasures and enjoyments natural to his age, nay his fortune and his blood, on the
altar of our liberty. With the weight of more than seventy winters upon his head, broken with
the struggles of a long life devoted to the cause of liberty, in America and in France--a cause
which he has never ceased to cherish in the midst of the most depressing circumstances, even
in the dungeon's gloom--we see him now throwing off at once the weight of years, recovering,
as if by magic, all the animation of his youth, with all its generosity and humanity; building
up the liberties of his country with one hand, and with the other, protecting and alleviating
the misfortunes of the fallen dynasty, and its misguided adherents. This is, indeed, to ride
like an angel in the whirlwind and direct the storm: like an angel whose mercy is equal to
his power. Yes--if any thing could swell still louder the note of our exultation at this great
achievement, it is the part which Lafayette, the noble pupil of our Washington, has borne and
is still bearing in it. He seems to have been preserved by heaven, amid the countless perils
through which he has passed, that he might witness the final triumph of liberty in his native
land. The great object of his life, that alone for which he seemed to wish to live, is accomplished;
and he wears, at this moment, a brighter crown than ever graced the brow of a Bourbon; for
it is formed of the best affections, the love and gratitude of an admiring world.

Here let us pause, and endeavor to recover from the amazement with which such an event is calculated
to overwhelm the mind, that we may contemplate it more calmly.

On the first arrival of the intelligence, we involuntarily asked ourselves, "Can this be a
reality?" And when we could no longer doubt the evidence of the fact, the next anxious inquiry
which pressed itself upon us, was "Will it stand, or are we again to be disappointed as we
were by the revolution of 1789?"

This is not a question of mere idle and speculative curiosity with regard to which we are indifferent
about the result. It is one in which our feelings are keenly interested; and more--it is one
of deep and awful import to the liberties of the world. For if France is again to revolve through
years and through seas of blood and crime, and to terminate, at last, at the point from which
she set out--a despotism--despair will fill the European world, and the people will be disposed
rather to bear the ills they have, than to encounter the unavailing horrors of the double precedent
which France will have set. Let us look, therefore, calmly, for a few moments, at the very
interesting question of the probable stability and success of this revolution.

Those of us who remember the revolution of 1789, are forcibly reminded of it by the late event,
and from the catastrophe of the former struggle, are apt to draw a mournful presage of the
present. It is not for human penetration to foretell, with certainty, the ultimate issue of
such a movement. In a case so dependent on the capricious passions of man, there are too many
contingencies that may arise to darken the fairest prospect and disappoint our hopes. But there
seem to be fundamental points of difference between the two cases which forbid us to reason
from the one to the other, and justify, now, the hope of a happy result. Let us attend for
a moment to these points of difference.

In the first place, the state of political information in France, and in Europe at large, is
widely different now from that which existed in 1789. France was not prepared for that revolution:
nor were the people of Europe prepared to understand it, to second it, and to turn it to the
best account. This is a grand and over-ruling distinction between the cases.

With regard to France, her people had been buried, for ages, in the night of despotism, and
had no idea of the meaning of political liberty. I speak of the great body of the people. On
the upper classes, it is true, that day had recently broken from the writings of Montesquieu,
Voltaire, Rousseau and Raynal. But thick darkness still rested upon the lower classes. Their
faculties were benumbed by its influence, and their spirits enslaved and debased by the habit
of subjection. The condition of things which they saw around them, and which had been immemorially
transmitted from father to son, seemed to them to be the natural condition, and they considered
themselves born for the use of their prince and his nobles.

Such, too, was the general state of things in Europe. As to political rights, the body of the
people were all in Egyptian darkness. The yoke had been fixed and locked upon them in far distant
ages, of which they had no knowledge; they had borne it, time out of mind, and their necks
had became so callous and accustomed to its pressure, that it never entered into their imaginations
to question the right.

In this state of habitual subjection and inveterate ignorance, the sun of liberty suddenly
arose upon France, in full glory; when, "blind with excess of light," and maddened by the too
rapid circulation of the blood which had so long stagnated in their veins, they passed in a
few years, from the extreme of despotism to the extreme of anarchy, and deeds of horror were
perpetrated which humanity shudders to recall. They frightened the rest of Europe by their
example, instead of alluring them to an imitation of it.

But widely different is the state of information at this day. That revolution itself, dreadful
as it was, has awakened the whole continent from the sleep of ages, and put them upon inquiry
into the foundations of government, and the purposes for which it was ordained: and during
nearly half a century which has since elapsed, a degree of light has been thrown upon the great
subject of the rights of man which has found its way into every hamlet and every cottage of
southern Europe, and is advancing to the north with such increasing lustre as will ere long
scatter the gloom that yet hangs over Siberia and Kamschatka. Hence the people of France, certainly,
and perhaps of the whole south of Europe, are now prepared for the temperate enjoyment of liberty,
under the administration of a regular government, for which they were totally unfitted in 1789.

There is another striking difference between the cases, and a most important one it is, as
it affects the question before us.

France has now the benefit of her own past experience before her eyes: she had no such lamp
to light her steps in 1789. Yes; that dreadful lesson is fresh in her recollection. She has
had full time to study it: to discover every false step that was then taken, and to observe
the causes which led to the miscarriage of that revolution. And to satisfy us that she has
profited by this study, a comparison of her very different conduct on those two occasions will
suffice.

The former revolution was one long-protracted tragedy of horrors to which there seemed to be
no end, and of which the most sagacious men among us could not guess the denouement, except
that from its very protraction and violence it would probably end in a despotism. At the close
of every scene of horror, we kept saying to ourselves, "surely it will close now, and France
will at length have rest and peace." But we were doomed to be disappointed, time after time.
One explosion followed another until the heart sickened "with hope deferred," and we turned
away our eyes at last in despair from the appalling spectacle.

It was this slow, vacillating, indecisive course of the former revolution which generated all
the causes that conspired to defeat it. The Bastile was stormed in 1789. It was not until the
latter part of 1792 that the unfortunate monarch was deposed. During these three years, though
strokes of great boldness were struck, one after another, yet none of them were of a decisive
character: none of them indicated a fixed point at which the revolution was to stop: while
they were all of a character to alarm, to exasperate and to raise up powerful enemies to the
revolution both at home and abroad.

Thus, in 1789 privileges and distinctions of orders were abolished, and the hitherto sacred
revenues of the church suffered a deep encroachment.

In 1790 titles of nobility, with all their insignia of emblasoned arms and feudal power, were
annihilated, and the estates attached to them were seized for the public use. These measures
drove from France a numerous and powerful body of emigrants, inflamed with resentment and despair,
who preached up, at every court in Europe, the cause of kings, which they represented, with
reason, to be menaced with general destruction; and they left in France an equally numerous
and powerful body of malcontents, whose cabals kept every part of the kingdom in a state of
constant ferment and insurrection. The people, released at once from the restraints of the
clergy and of their feudal lords, and suddenly become their own masters, without the discretion
necessary for their guidance, became licentious and turbulent, and the whole kingdom presented
a scene of riot and disorder which there were no laws to repress. And now was hatched that
political hydra, the Jacobin faction, which no Frenchman will ever be able to remember without
an involuntary shudder.

In 1791 the affrighted king made an unsuccessful attempt to escape with his family. They were
arrested near the confines of the kingdom and brought back to Paris under the most humiliating
circumstances; but still he was acknowledged to be the king of France, and a constituent part
of the existing government. A new constitution was then framed, to which he was required to
take an oath of obedience, and he took it per force. The leading patriots, who had nothing
more in view than the enjoyment of rational liberty under a regular government, attempted to
stop the revolution at the point of a limited monarchy. Mirabeau, that prodigy of genius and
vice, was believed to have been of this number. The virtuous Lafayette certainly was, and so
was a host of others of the brightest names in France. But the ball had rolled beyond their
reach, and had acquired a momentum which they could no longer control. A set of unprincipled
men, engendered by the slow progress of the revolution, had, by their flatteries and appeals
to the worst passions of the populace, worked themselves up to the head of affairs and drove
on the revolution before the storm, without any fixed object on their own part.

These infamous men infused suspicions into the minds of the people against their best friends,
and even Lafayette had to defend himself against their accusations.

In 1792 the king was tried, condemned and deposed, and a republic was established; but it was
a republic of bedlamites. The revolution now assumed a most dreadful form. France, delivered
up, at once, to the fury of a foreign and a civil war, and at the same time rent asunder by
the most frightful anarchy, exhibited a picture which the heart quails to contemplate even
at this distance of time. All was chaos and confusion, and Lafayette perceiving that the great
object for which he had contended was lost, retired from the kingdom, and was doomed to mourn,
for years, in an Austrian dungeon, the disappointment of his patriot hopes.

