"Alas, Miss Ludolph," said Dennis, very gently, "there can be no visible remains. The words
of the Prayer Book are literally true in this case--'Ashes to ashes.'  But I can take you to
the spot, and it is natural that you should wish to go. Are you equal to the fatigue?"

"I shall not feel it if you go with me, and then we can ride part of the way, for I have a
little money." (Dr. Arten had insisted on her taking some.) "Wait for me a moment."

She soon reappeared with her shawl cut in two equal parts. One she insisted on folding and
putting around him as a Scotsman wears his plaid. "You will need it in the cool night wind,"
she said, and then she took his arm in perfect trust, and they started.

In the cars she gave him her money, and he said, "I will return my fare to-morrow night."

"What!" she replied, looking a little hurt. "After spending two dollars on me, will you not
take five cents in return?"

"But I spent it foolishly."

"You spent it like a generous man. Surely, Mr. Fleet, you did not understand my badinage this
evening. If I had not spoken to you in that strain, I could not have spoken at all. You have
been a brother to me, and we should not stand on these little things."

"That is it," thought he again. "She looks upon and trusts me as a brother, and such I must
try to be till she departs for her own land; yet if she knew the agony of the effort she would
scarcely ask it."

But as they left the car, he said, "All that you would ask from a brother, please ask from me."

She put her hand in his, and said, "I now ask your support, sympathy, and prayer, for I feel
that I shall need all here."

Still retaining her hand, he placed it on his arm and guided her most carefully around the
hot ruins and heaps of rubbish till they came to where the Art Building had stood. The moon
shone brightly down, lighting up with weird and ghostly effect the few walls remaining. They
were utterly alone in the midst of a desolation sevenfold more impressing than that of the
desert. Pointing to the spot where, in the midst of his treasures of art and idolized worldly
possessions, Mr. Ludolph had perished, she said, in a thrilling whisper, "My father's ashes
are there."

"Yes."

Her breath came quick and short, and her face was so pale and agonized that he trembled for
her, but he tightened his grasp on her hand, and his tears fell with hers.

"Oh, my father!" she cried, in a tone of unspeakable pathos, "can I never, never see you again?
Can I never tell you of the love of Jesus, and the better and happier life beyond? Oh, how
my heart yearns after you! God forgive me if this is wrong, but I cannot help it!"

"It is not wrong," said Dennis, brokenly. "Our Lord himself wept over those He could not save."

"It is all that I can do," she murmured, and, leaning her head on his shoulder, a tempest of
sobs shook her person.

He supported her tenderly, and said, in accents of the deepest sympathy, "Let every tear fall
that will: they will do you good." At last, as she became calmer, he added, "Remember that
your great Elder Brother has called the heavy laden to Him for rest."

At last she raised her head, turned, and gave one long parting look, and, as Dennis saw her
face in the white moonlight, it was the face of a pitying angel. A low "Farewell!" trembled
from her lips, she leaned heavily on his arm, they turned away, and seemingly the curtain fell
between father and child to rise no more.

"Mr. Fleet," she said, pleadingly, "are you too tired to take me to my old home on the north side?"

"Miss Ludolph, I could go to the ends of the earth for you, but you are not equal to this strain
upon your feelings. Have mercy on yourself."

But she said, in a low, dreamy tone: "I wish to take leave to-night of my old life--the strange,
sad past with its mystery of evil; and then I shall set my face resolutely toward a better
life--a better country. So bear with me, my true, kind friend, a little longer."

"Believe me, my thought was all for you. All sense of fatigue has passed away."

Silently they made their way, till they stood where, a few short days before, had been the
elegant home that was full of sad and painful memories to both.

"There was my studio," she said in the same dreamy tone, "where I indulged in my wild, ambitious
dreams, and sought to grasp a little fading circlet of laurel, while ignoring a heavenly and
an immortal crown. There," she continued, her pale face becoming crimson, even in the white
moonlight, "I most painfully wronged you, my most generous, forgiving friend, and a noble revenge
you took when you saved my life and led me to a Saviour. May God reward you; but I humbly ask
your pardon--"

"Please, Miss Ludolph, do not speak of that. I have buried it all. Do not pain yourself by
recalling that which I have forgiven and almost forgotten. You are now my ideal of all that
is noble and good, and in my solitary artist life of the future you shall be my gentle yet
potent inspiration."

"Why must your life be solitary in the future?" she asked, in a low tone.

He was very pale, and his arm trembled under her hand; at last he said, in a hoarse voice,
"Do not ask me. Why should I pain you by telling you the truth?"

"Is it the part of a true friend to refuse confidence?" she asked, reproachfully.

He turned his face away, that she might not see the evidences of the bitter struggle within--the
severest he had ever known; but at last he spoke in the firm and quiet voice of victory. She
had called him brother, and trusted him as such. She had ventured out alone on a sacred mission
with him, as she might with a brother. She was dependent on him, and burdened by a feeling
of obligation. His high sense of honor forbade that he should urge his suit under such circumstances.
If she could not accept, how painful beyond words would be the necessity of refusal, and the
impression had become almost fixed in his mind that her regard for him was only sisterly and
grateful in its character.

"Yes, Miss Ludolph," he said, "my silence is the part of true friendship--truer than you can
ever know. May Heaven's richest blessings go with you to your own land, and follow you through
a long, happy life."

"My own land? This is my own land."

"Do you not intend to go abroad at once, and enter upon your ancestral estates as the Baroness
Ludolph?"

"Not if I can earn a livelihood in Chicago," she answered, most firmly. "Mr. Fleet, all that
nonsense has perished as utterly as this my former home. It belongs to my old life, of which
I have forever taken leave to-night. My ancestral estate in Germany is but a petty affair,
and mortgaged beyond its real worth by my deceased uncle. All I possess, all I value, is in
this city. It was my father's ambition, and at one time my own, to restore the ancient grandeur
of the family with the wealth acquired in this land. The plan lost its charms for me long ago--I
would not have gone if I could have helped it--and now it is impossible. It has perished in
flame and smoke. Mr. Fleet, you see before you a simple American girl. I claim and wish to
be known in no other character. If nothing remains of my father's fortune I shall teach either
music or painting--"

"Oh, Christine!" he interrupted, "forgive me for speaking to you under the circumstances, but
indeed I cannot help it. Is there hope for me?"

She looked at him so earnestly as to remind him of her strange, steady gaze when before he
pleaded for her love near that same spot, but her hand trembled in his like a fluttering, frightened
bird. In a low, eager tone she said, "And can you still truly love me after all the shameful past?"

"When have I ceased to love you?"

With a little cry of ecstasy, like the note of joy that a weary bird might utter as it flew
to its mate, she put her arm around his neck, buried her face on his shoulder, and said, "No
hope for you, Dennis, but perfect certainty, for now EVERY BARRIER IS BURNED AWAY!"

What though the home before them is a deserted ruin? Love is joining hands that shall build
a fairer and better one, because filled with that which only makes a home--love.

What though all around are only dreary ruins, where the night wind is sighing mournfully? Love
has transformed that desert place into the paradise of God; and, if such is its power in the
wastes of earthly desolation, what will be its might amid the perfect scenes of heaven?

Our story is finished.

It only remains to say that Christine stands high at court, but it is a grander one than any
of earth. She is allied to a noble, but to one who has received his patent from no petty sovereign
of this world. She has lost sight of the transient laurel wreath which she sought to grasp
at such cost to herself and others, in view of the "crown of glory that fadeth not away," and
to this already, as an earnest Christian, she has added starry jewels.

Below is the Ludolph Hall in which sturdy independence led her to begin her married life. But
she is climbing the mountain at her husband's side, and often her hands steady and help him.
The ash-tree, twined with the passion-flower, is not very far above them, and the villa, beautiful
within and without, is no vain dream of the future. But even in happy youth their eyes of faith
see in airy, golden outline their heavenly home awaiting them.