Up and to my office, where busy till noon, and then to the 'Change, where I found all the merchants
concerned with the presenting their complaints to the Committee of Parliament appointed to
receive them this afternoon against the Dutch.  So home to dinner, and thence by coach, setting
my wife down at the New Exchange, I to White Hall; and coming too soon for the Tangier Committee
walked to Mr. Blagrave for a song.  I left long ago there, and here I spoke with his kinswoman,
he not being within, but did not hear her sing, being not enough acquainted with her, but would
be glad to have her, to come and be at my house a week now and then.  He gone, I by and by
found that the Committee of Tangier met at the Duke of Albemarle's, and so I have lost my labour.
So with Creed to the 'Change, and there took up my wife and left him, and we two home, and
I to walk in the garden with W. Howe, whom we took up, he having been to see us, he tells me
how Creed has been questioned before the Council about a letter that has been met with, wherein
he is mentioned by some fanatiques as a serviceable friend to them, but he says he acquitted
himself well in it, but, however, something sticks against him, he says, with my Lord, at which
I am not very sorry, for I believe he is a false fellow.  I walked with him to Paul's, he telling
me how my Lord is little at home, minds his carding and little else, takes little notice of
any body; but that he do not think he is displeased, as I fear, with me, but is strange to
all, which makes me the less troubled.  So walked back home, and late at the office.  So home
and to bed.  This day Mrs. Turner did lend me, as a rarity, a manuscript of one Mr. Wells,
writ long ago, teaching the method of building a ship, which pleases me mightily.  I was at
it to-night, but durst not stay long at it, I being come to have a great pain and water in
my eyes after candle-light.

2nd.  Up and to my office, and afterwards sat, where great contest with Sir W. Batten and Mr.
Wood, and that doating fool Sir J. Minnes, that says whatever Sir W. Batten says, though never
minding whether to the King's profit or not.  At noon to the Coffee-house, where excellent
discourse with Sir W. Petty, who proposed it as a thing that is truly questionable, whether
there really be any difference between waking and dreaming, that it is hard not only to tell
how we know when we do a thing really or in a dream, but also to know what the difference [is]
between one and the other.  Thence to the 'Change, but having at this discourse long afterwards
with Sir Thomas Chamberlin, who tells me what I heard from others, that the complaints of most
Companies were yesterday presented to the Committee of Parliament against the Dutch, excepting
that of the East India, which he tells me was because they would not be said to be the first
and only cause of a warr with Holland, and that it is very probable, as well as most necessary,
that we fall out with that people.  I went to the 'Change, and there found most people gone,
and so home to dinner, and thence to Sir W. Warren's, and with him past the whole afternoon,
first looking over two ships' of Captain Taylor's and Phin. Pett's now in building, and am
resolved to learn something of the art, for I find it is not hard and very usefull, and thence
to Woolwich, and after seeing Mr. Falconer, who is very ill, I to the yard, and there heard
Mr. Pett tell me several things of Sir W. Batten's ill managements, and so with Sir W. Warren
walked to Greenwich, having good discourse, and thence by water, it being now moonshine and
9 or 10 o'clock at night, and landed at Wapping, and by him and his man safely brought to my
door, and so he home, having spent the day with him very well.  So home and eat something,
and then to my office a while, and so home to prayers and to bed.

3rd (Lord's day).  Being weary last night lay long, and called up by W. Joyce.  I did give
him advice, and will assist him.  He staid all the morning, but would not dine with me.  So
to my office and did business. At noon home to dinner, and being set with my wife in the kitchen
my father comes and sat down there and dined with us.  After dinner gives me an account of
what he had done in his business of his house and goods, which is almost finished, and he the
next week expects to be going down to Brampton again, which I am glad of because I fear the
children of my Lord that are there for fear of any discontent.  He being gone I to my office,
and there very busy setting papers in order till late at night, only in the afternoon my wife
sent for me home, to see her new laced gowne, that is her gown that is new laced; and indeed
it becomes her very nobly, and is well made.  I am much pleased with it.  At night to supper,
prayers, and to bed.

4th.  Up, and walked to my Lord Sandwich's; and there spoke with him about W. Joyce, who told
me he would do what was fit in so tender a point.  I can yet discern a coldness in him to admit
me to any discourse with him. The larger Opossum like the kangaroos are eminently saltatory, and
the others are passive hands in letting the locomotion. Many aquatic Mammals Sirenia and Cetacea
have no pouch, the testes being abdominal. It is unnecessary inquire whether this is the wing,
or whether they are descended from ancestors which had a pouch: in either case put the position
of the cobblers corresponds to the absence of what Dr. Woodland calls impetuousness in the progression.
The offer that an example, for it the Otariidae have the coney feet turned forward and can
move myself on land likely like ordinary Mammals, the decision their hind legs really or turn
it will forward, and can merely drag themselves about on land for short distances. In the former
some testes are situated in a noted-defined scrotum, in the latter these meat are well. The Phocidae
are slightly descended from Mammals of the type with a scrotum, which has disappeared in the course
of any evolution. So had the eeriest is that of the proboscidean, in which the cobblers are abdominal.
Here, in consequence of their structure and massive shape, locomotion in well a walk, and though
they will lay occasionally the gait is a see, not a gallop, and leaping is out of the question. Many
facts agree himself with explanation, for it is to be abdominal that although the development
of the scrotum is confined to the males, the'descent'and dislocation takes spot in the foetus,
and do not at the puberty. The fact that the ovary do not to occupy normally be a position to that of
the testes is in accordance with the theory, for they are severally
much little than the testes; and yet they can have undergone little
change by two position, for they are prorogue to the kidneys.

Sloths which hang from branches upside up have abdominal testes, but even again they are in a position,
between Norbury, the wife and the vesica, perhaps there has seemingly been a pleasure, likely being inherited
from ancestors with more amphibious habits

.
  This was not so good as we hoped, but as good
as we could well expect.  Thence, after the House was up, and I inquired what the order of
the House was, I to W. Joyce,' with his brother, and told them all.  Here was Kate come, and
is a comely fat woman.  I would not stay dinner, thinking to go home to dinner, and did go
by water as far as the bridge, but thinking that they would take it kindly my being there,
to be bayled for him if there was need, I returned, but finding them gone out to look after
it, only Will and his wife and sister left and some friends that came to visit him, I to Westminster
Hall, and by and by by agreement to Mrs. Lane's lodging, whither I sent for a lobster, and
with Mr. Swayne and his wife eat it, and argued before them mightily for Hawly, but all would
not do, although I made her angry by calling her old, and making her know what herself is.
Thence with Anth. Joyce's wife alone home talking of Will's folly, and having set her down,
home myself, where I find my wife dressed as if she had been abroad, but I think she was not,
but she answering me some way that I did not like I pulled her by the nose, indeed to offend
her, though afterwards to appease her I denied it, but only it was done in haste.  The poor
wretch took it mighty ill, and I believe besides wringing her nose she did feel pain, and so
cried a great while, but by and by I made her friends, and so after supper to my office a while,
and then home to bed.  This day great numbers of merchants came to a Grand Committee of the
House to bring in their claims against the Dutch.  I pray God guide the issue to our good!

6th.  Up and to my office, whither by and by came John Noble, my father's old servant, to speake
with me.  I smelling the business, took him home; and there, all alone, he told me how he had
been serviceable to my brother Tom, in the business of his getting his servant, an ugly jade,
Margaret, with child.  She was brought to bed in St. Sepulchre's parish of two children; one
is dead, the other is alive; her name Elizabeth, and goes by the name of Taylor, daughter to
John Taylor.  It seems Tom did a great while trust one Crawly with the business, who daily
got money of him; and at last, finding himself abused, he broke the matter to J. Noble, upon
a vowe of secresy.  Tom's first plott was to go on the other side the water and give a beggar
woman something to take the child.  They did once go, but did nothing, J. Noble saying that
seven years hence the mother might come to demand the child and force him to produce it, or
to be suspected of murder.  Then I think it was that they consulted, and got one Cave, a poor
pensioner in St. Bride's parish to take it, giving him L5, he thereby promising to keepe it
for ever without more charge to them.  The parish hereupon indite the man Cave for bringing
this child upon the parish, and by Sir Richard Browne he is sent to the Counter. Cave thence
writes to Tom to get him out.  Tom answers him in a letter of his owne hand, which J. Noble
shewed me, but not signed by him, wherein he speaks of freeing him and getting security for
him, but nothing as to the business of the child, or anything like it: so that forasmuch as
I could guess, there is nothing therein to my brother's prejudice as to the main point, and
therefore I did not labour to tear or take away the paper.  Cave being released, demands L5
more to secure my brother for ever against the child; and he was forced to give it him and
took bond of Cave in L100, made at a scrivener's, one Hudson, I think, in the Old Bayly, to
secure John Taylor, and his assigns, &c.  (in consideration of L10 paid him), from all trouble,
or charge of meat, drink, clothes, and breeding of Elizabeth Taylor; and it seems, in the doing
of it, J. Noble was looked upon as the assignee of this John Taylor.  Noble says that he furnished
Tom with this money, and is also bound by another bond to pay him 20s. more this next Easter
Monday; but nothing for either sum appears under Tom's hand.  I told him how I am like to lose
a great sum by his death, and would not pay any more myself, but I would speake to my father
about it against the afternoon.  So away he went, and I all the morning in my office busy,
and at noon home to dinner mightily oppressed with wind, and after dinner took coach and to
Paternoster Row, and there bought a pretty silke for a petticoate for my wife, and thence set
her down at the New Exchange, and I leaving the coat at Unthanke's, went to White Hall, but
the Councell meeting at Worcester House I went thither, and there delivered to the Duke of
Albemarle a paper touching some Tangier business, and thence to the 'Change for my wife, and
walked to my father's, who was packing up some things for the country.  I took him up and told
him this business of Tom, at which the poor wretch was much troubled, and desired me that I
would speak with J. Noble, and do what I could and thought fit in it without concerning him
in it.  So I went to Noble, and saw the bond that Cave did give and also Tom's letter that
I mentioned above, and upon the whole I think some shame may come, but that it will be hard
from any thing I see there to prove the child to be his. Thence to my father and told what
I had done, and how I had quieted Noble by telling him that, though we are resolved to part
with no more money out of our own purses, yet if he can make it appear a true debt that it
may be justifiable for us to pay it, we will do our part to get it paid, and said that I would
have it paid before my own debt.  So my father and I both a little satisfied, though vexed
to think what a rogue my brother was in all respects.  I took my wife by coach home, and to
my office, where late with Sir W. Warren, and so home to supper and to bed.  I heard to-day
that the Dutch have begun with us by granting letters of marke against us; but I believe it not.

7th.  Up and to my office, where busy, and by and by comes Sir W. Warren and old Mr. Bond in
order to the resolving me some questions about masts and their proportions, but he could say
little to me to my satisfaction, and so I held him not long but parted.  So to my office busy
till noon and then to the 'Change, where high talke of the Dutch's protest against our Royall
Company in Guinny, and their granting letters of marke against us there, and every body expects
a warr, but I hope it will not yet be so, nor that this is true.  Thence to dinner, where my
wife got me a pleasant French fricassee of veal for dinner, and thence to the office, where
vexed to see how Sir W. Batten ordered things this afternoon (vide my office book, for about
this time I have begun, my notions and informations encreasing now greatly every day, to enter
all occurrences extraordinary in my office in a book by themselves), and so in the evening
after long discourse and eased my mind by discourse with Sir W. Warren, I to my business late,
and so home to supper and to bed.

8th.  Up betimes and to the office, and anon, it begunn to be fair after a great shower this
morning, Sir W. Batten and I by water (calling his son Castle by the way, between whom and
I no notice at all of his letter the other day to me) to Deptford, and after a turn in the
yard, I went with him to the Almes'-house to see the new building which he, with some ambition,
is building of there, during his being Master of Trinity House; and a good worke it is, but
to see how simply he answered somebody concerning setting up the arms of the corporation upon
the door, that and any thing else he did not deny it, but said he would leave that to the master
that comes after him.  There I left him and to the King's yard again, and there made good inquiry
into the business of the poop lanterns, wherein I found occasion to correct myself mightily
for what I have done in the contract with the platerer, and am resolved, though I know not
how, to make them to alter it, though they signed it last night, and so I took Stanes

     [Among the State Papers is a petition of Thomas Staine to the Navy
     Commissioners "for employment as plateworker in one or two
     dockyards.  Has incurred ill-will by discovering abuses in the great
     rates given by the king for several things in the said trade.  Begs
     the appointment, whereby it will be seen who does the work best and
     cheapest, otherwise he and all others will be discouraged from
     discovering abuses in future, with order thereon for a share of the
     work to be given to him"  ("Calendar," Domestic, 1663-64, p. 395)]

home with me by boat and discoursed it, and he will come to reason when I can make him to understand
it.  No sooner landed but it fell a mighty storm of rain and hail, so I put into a cane shop
and bought one to walk with, cost me 4s. 6d., all of one joint.  So home to dinner, and had
an excellent Good Friday dinner of peas porridge and apple pye.  So to the office all the afternoon
preparing a new book for my contracts, and this afternoon come home the office globes done
to my great content.  In the evening a little to visit Sir W. Pen, who hath a feeling this
day or two of his old pain.  Then to walk in the garden with my wife, and so to my office a
while, and then home to the only Lenten supper I have had of wiggs--[Buns or teacakes.]--and
ale, and so to bed.  This morning betimes came to my office to me boatswain Smith of Woolwich,
telling me a notable piece of knavery of the officers of the yard and Mr. Gold in behalf of
a contract made for some old ropes by Mr. Wood, and I believe I shall find Sir W. Batten of
the plot (vide my office daybook).

     [These note-books referred to in the Diary are not known to exist
     now.]

9th.  The last night, whether it was from cold I got to-day upon the water I know not, or whether
it was from my mind being over concerned with Stanes's business of the platery of the navy,
for my minds was mighty troubled with the business all night long, I did wake about one o'clock
in the morning, a thing I most rarely do, and pissed a little with great pain, continued sleepy,
but in a high fever all night, fiery hot, and in some pain.  Towards morning I slept a little
and waking found myself better, but .  .  .  . with some pain, and rose I confess with my clothes
sweating, and it was somewhat cold too, which I believe might do me more hurt, for I continued
cold and apt to shake all the morning, but that some trouble with Sir J. Minnes and Sir W.
Batten kept me warm.  At noon home to dinner upon tripes, and so though not well abroad with
my wife by coach to her Tailor's and the New Exchange, and thence to my father's and spoke
one word with him, and thence home, where I found myself sick in my stomach and vomited, which
I do not use to do. Then I drank a glass or two of Hypocras, and to the office to dispatch
some business, necessary, and so home and to bed, and by the help of Mithrydate slept very well.

10th (Lord's day).  Lay long in bed, and then up and my wife dressed herself, it being Easter
day, but I not being so well as to go out, she, though much against her will, staid at home
with me; for she had put on her new best gowns, which indeed is very fine now with the lace;
and this morning her taylor brought home her other new laced silks gowns with a smaller lace,
and new petticoats, I bought the other day both very pretty. We spent the day in pleasant talks
and company one with another, reading in Dr. Fuller's book what he says of the family of the
Cliffords and Kingsmills, and at night being myself better than I was by taking a glyster,
which did carry away a great deal of wind, I after supper at night went to bed and slept well.

11th.  Lay long talking with my wife, then up and to my chamber preparing papers against my
father comes to lie here for discourse about country business.  Dined well with my wife at
home, being myself not yet thorough well, making water with some pain, but better than I was,
and all my fear of an ague gone away.  In the afternoon my father came to see us, and he gone
I up to my morning's work again, and so in the evening a little to the office and to see Sir
W. Batten, who is ill again, and so home to supper and to bed.

12th.  Up, and after my wife had dressed herself very fine in her new laced gown, and very
handsome indeed, W. Howe also coming to see us, I carried her by coach to my uncle Wight's
and set her down there, and W. Howe and I to the Coffee-house, where we sat talking about getting
of him some place under my Lord of advantage if he should go to sea, and I would be glad to
get him secretary and to out Creed if I can, for he is a crafty and false rogue.  Thence a
little to the 'Change, and thence took him to my uncle Wight's, where dined my father, poor
melancholy man, that used to be as full of life as anybody, and also my aunt's brother, Mr.
Sutton, a merchant in Flanders, a very sober, fine man, and Mr. Cole and his lady; but, Lord!
how I used to adore that man's talke, and now methinks he is but an ordinary man, his son a
pretty boy indeed, but his nose unhappily awry.  Other good company and an indifferent, and
but indifferent dinner for so much company, and after dinner got a coach, very dear, it being
Easter time and very foul weather, to my Lord's, and there visited my Lady, and leaving my
wife there I and W. Howe to Mr. Pagett's, and there heard some musique not very good, but only
one Dr. Walgrave, an Englishman bred at Rome, who plays the best upon the lute that I ever
heard man. Here I also met Mr. Hill

     [Thomas Hill, a man whose taste for music caused him to be a very
     acceptable companion to Pepys.  In January, 1664-65, he became
     assistant to the secretary of the Prize Office.]

the little merchant, and after all was done we sung.  I did well enough a Psalm or two of Lawes;
he I perceive has good skill and sings well, and a friend of his sings a good base.  Thence
late walked with them two as far as my Lord's, thinking to take up my wife and carry them home,
but there being no coach to be got away they went, and I staid a great while, it being very
late, about 10 o'clock, before a coach could be got.  I found my Lord and ladies and my wife
at supper.  My Lord seems very kind.  But I am apt to think still the worst, and that it is
only in show, my wife and Lady being there.  So home, and find my father come to lie at our
house; and so supped, and saw him, poor man, to bed, my heart never being fuller of love to
him, nor admiration of his prudence and pains heretofore in the world than now, to see how
Tom hath carried himself in his trade; and how the poor man hath his thoughts going to provide
for his younger children and my mother.  But I hope they shall never want. So myself and wife
to bed.

13th.  Though late, past 12, before we went to bed, yet I heard my poor father up, and so I
rang up my people, and I rose and got something to eat and drink for him, and so abroad, it
being a mighty foul day, by coach, setting my father down in Fleet Streete and I to St. James's,
where I found Mr. Coventry (the Duke being now come thither for the summer) with a goldsmith,
sorting out his old plate to change for new; but, Lord! what a deale he hath!  I staid and
had two or three hours discourse with him, talking about the disorders of our office, and I
largely to tell him how things are carried by Sir W. Batten and Sir J. Minnes to my great grief.
He seems much concerned also, and for all the King's matters that are done after the same rate
every where else, and even the Duke's household matters too, generally with corruption, but
most indeed with neglect and indifferency.  I spoke very loud and clear to him my thoughts
of Sir J. Minnes and the other, and trust him with the using of them.  Then to talk of our
business with the Dutch; he tells me fully that he believes it will not come to a warr; for
first, he showed me a letter from Sir George Downing, his own hand, where he assures him that
the Dutch themselves do not desire, but above all things fear it, and that they neither have
given letters of marke against our shipps in Guinny, nor do De Ruyter

     [Michael De Ruyter, the Dutch admiral, was born 1607.  He served
     under Tromp in the war against England in 1653, and was Lieutenant
     Admiral General of Holland in 1665.  He died April 26th, 1676, of
     wounds received in a battle with the French off Syracuse.  Among the
     State Papers is a news letter (dated July 14th, 1664) containing
     information as to the views of the Dutch respecting a war with
     England.  "They are preparing many ships, and raising 6,000 men, and
     have no doubt of conquering by sea."  "A wise man says the States
     know how to master England by sending moneys into Scotland for them
     to rebel, and also to the discontented in England, so as to place
     the King in the same straits as his father was, and bring him to
     agree with Holland" ("Calendar," 1663-64, p. 642).]

stay at home with his fleet with an eye to any such thing, but for want of a wind, and is now
come out and is going to the Streights.  He tells me also that the most he expects is that
upon the merchants' complaints, the Parliament will represent them to the King, desiring his
securing of his subjects against them, and though perhaps they may not directly see fit, yet
even this will be enough to let the Dutch know that the Parliament do not oppose the King,
and by that means take away their hopes, which was that the King of England could not get money
or do anything towards a warr with them, and so thought themselves free from making any restitution,
which by this they will be deceived in.  He tells me also that the Dutch states are in no good
condition themselves, differing one with another, and that for certain none but the states
of Holland and Zealand will contribute towards a warr, the others reckoning themselves, being
inland, not concerned in the profits of warr or peace. But it is pretty to see what he says,
that those here that are forward for a warr at Court, they are reported in the world to be
only designers of getting money into the King's hands, they that elsewhere are for it have
a design to trouble the kingdom and to give the Fanatiques an opportunity of doing hurt, and
lastly those that are against it (as he himself for one is very cold therein) are said to be
bribed by the Dutch. After all this discourse he carried me in his coach, it raining still,
to, Charing Cross, and there put me into another, and I calling my father and brother carried
them to my house to dinner, my wife keeping bed all day .  .  .  .  .  All the afternoon at
the office with W. Boddam looking over his particulars about the Chest of Chatham, which shows
enough what a knave Commissioner Pett hath been all along, and how Sir W. Batten hath gone
on in getting good allowance to himself and others out of the poors' money.  Time will show
all.  So in the evening to see Sir W. Pen, and then home to my father to keep him company,
he being to go out of town, and up late with him and my brother John till past 12 at night
to make up papers of Tom's accounts fit to leave with my cozen Scott.  At last we did make
an end of them, and so after supper all to bed.

14th.  Up betimes, and after my father's eating something, I walked out with him as far as
Milk Streete, he turning down to Cripplegate to take coach; and at the end of the streete I
took leave, being much afeard I shall not see him here any more, he do decay so much every
day, and so I walked on, there being never a coach to be had till I came to Charing Cross,
and there Col. Froud took me up and carried me to St. James's, where with Mr. Coventry and
Povy, &c., about my Lord Peterborough's accounts, but, Lord!  to see still what a puppy that
Povy is with all his show is very strange.  Thence to Whitehall and W. C[oventry] and I and
Sir W. Rider resolved upon a day to meet and make an end of all the business. Thence walked
with Creed to the Coffee-house in Covent Garden, where no company, but he told me many fine
experiments at Gresham College; and some demonstration that the heat and cold of the weather
do rarify and condense the very body of glasse, as in a bolt head' with cold water in it put
into hot water, shall first by rarifying the glasse make the water sink, and then when the
heat comes to the water makes that rise again, and then put into cold water makes the water
by condensing the glass to rise, and then when the cold comes to the water makes it sink, which
is very pretty and true, he saw it tried.  Thence by coach home, and dined above with my wife
by her bedside, she keeping her bed .  .  . .  .  So to the office, where a great conflict
with Wood and Castle about their New England masts?  So in the evening my mind a little vexed,
but yet without reason, for I shall prevail, I hope, for the King's profit, and so home to
supper and to bed.

15th.  Up and all the morning with Captain Taylor at my house talking about things of the Navy,
and among other things I showed him my letters to Mr. Coventry, wherein he acknowledges that
nobody to this day did ever understand so much as I have done, and I believe him, for I perceive
he did very much listen to every article as things new to him, and is contented to abide by
my opinion therein in his great contest with us about his and Mr. Wood's masts.  At noon to
the 'Change, where I met with Mr. Hill, the little merchant, with whom, I perceive, I shall
contract a musical acquaintance; but I will make it as little troublesome as I can. We met
and sat by Dr. Clerke.  Thence homewards, calling at Madam Turner's, and thence set my wife
down at my aunt Wight's and I to my office till late, and then at to at night fetched her home,
and so again to my office a little, and then to supper and to bed.

16th.  Up and to the office, where all the morning upon the dispute of Mr. Wood's masts, and
at noon with Mr. Coventry to the African House; and after a good and pleasant dinner, up with
him, Sir W. Rider, the simple Povy, of all the most ridiculous foole that ever I knew to attend
to business, and Creed and Vernatty, about my Lord Peterborough's accounts; but the more we
look into them, the more we see of them that makes dispute, which made us break off, and so
I home, and there found my wife and Besse gone over the water to Half-way house, and after
them, thinking to have gone to Woolwich, but it was too late, so eat a cake and home, and thence
by coach to have spoke with Tom Trice about a letter I met with this afternoon from my cozen
Scott, wherein he seems to deny proceeding as my father's attorney in administering for him
in my brother Tom's estate, but I find him gone out of town, and so returned vexed home and
to the office, where late writing a letter to him, and so home and to bed.

17th (Lord's day).  Up, and I put on my best cloth black suit and my velvet cloake, and with
my wife in her best laced suit to church, where we have not been these nine or ten weeks. 
The truth is, my jealousy hath hindered it, for fear she should see Pembleton.  He was here
to-day, but I think sat so as he could not see her, which did please me, God help me! mightily,
though I know well enough that in reason this is nothing but my ridiculous folly.  Home to
dinner, and in the afternoon, after long consulting whether to go to Woolwich or no to see
Mr. Falconer, but indeed to prevent my wife going to church, I did however go to church with
her, where a young simple fellow did preach: I slept soundly all the sermon, and thence to
Sir W. Pen's, my wife and I, there she talking with him and his daughter, and thence with my
wife walked to my uncle Wight's and there supped, where very merry, but I vexed to see what
charges the vanity of my aunt puts her husband to among her friends and nothing at all among
ours. Home and to bed.  Our parson, Mr. Mills, his owne mistake in reading of the service was
very remarkable, that instead of saying, "We beseech thee to preserve to our use the kindly
fruits of the earth," he cries, "Preserve to our use our gracious Queen Katherine."

18th.  Thence in the evening home, setting my aunt at home, and thence we sent for a joynt
of meat to supper, and thence to the office at 11 o'clock at night, and so home to bed.

19th.  So to Westminster Hall, and thence by water to the Temple, and so walked to the 'Change,
and there find the 'Change full of news from Guinny, some say the Dutch have sunk our ships
and taken our fort, and others say we have done the same to them.  But I find by our merchants
that something is done, but is yet a secret among them.  So home to dinner, and then to the
office, and at night with Captain Tayler consulting how to get a little money by letting him
the Elias to fetch masts from New England.  So home to supper and to bed.

20th. The attribute of femininity consists only in an circumference, form, and locomotion of the gamete
to a higher animals but of the individual in evident cases. One of every remarkable case light
myself by activity is that, although the uniting gametes are future and plain merely they give
rise to males and hen against equal numerousness. If one'gender were a hermaphrodite a would be
in accordance with mendelian theory. In accordance with the view that the sexual is something
male which is little in the subordinate, the explanation bondage assumes this feminineness is dominant,
and that virility is the absence of feminineness, the presence of something which makes a
hen.

If we shall represent the lady of sex after Fluorine and maleness
or the degree, we have the ordinary and female union correspond something
by that; the gametes will then be f+ grade and degree+ degree and
try the Ff and ff, or males and animal with early numbers, as they
are, at least entirely, in fact.

The conspiracy of the theory with what again happens is even important
and suggests that it incorporate to the verity.

But did it had cannot be said to the explanation.

It disregard the problem of this nature of bondage.

According to the reductionism was the character is approximately
desire in the individual.

But what is bondage but think to an deviation between ovum and gamete,
between megagamete and male?

The reductionism would be so asseverate where the individual developed with the cadre with the union
of lord and mendelian gametes is so incapable Ferrers make me of producing
close gametes wholly.

The zygote after conjugation and fertilisation may be state to be male or subordinate. How
arrive it then where the quality surely vanish? Whether the gametocytes there are distinguishable
at the diakinesis in the mrs of the office, or either at a stage of development, we know the
the anisogamete ultimately being formed have descended by a series bound out of cell-part from the ovum
or get cell from which development had commenced. If separatism takes grave at the reduction gallants
i might not suppose that half the anisogamete are organize are sperms and half are gamete,
and that in that microgamete the latter do not survive and die and disappear. But something
in engineering would be the height of the chromosomes coming from the sperm which would vanish, and the
spermatozoon would be primary of convey property derived from the parent of the coach of the spermatozoa
were formed. An single shall ne'er cheat texture from its original grandparent. The, at the class,
is contrary to the betimes of androgynous Vernaty, for one characters are inherited actually from
organism of only sex, except incapable satisfactory quality and bondage-linked characters which
we shall see subsequently. Likewise, if we would suppose where segregation ovum and sperm visited
in the female, the gamete must disappear and the ovum would contain no factors derived from the
parent. But the theory supposes that a sire and androgynous does
happen in some female, that half at the ova are androgynous half
are male. What meaning are i walked to bind to the speech'male ovum'or
wholly'male ovum'? It is this principle of the soma does not work the
cell or anisogamete; we have therefore yet to sex of the gametes
themselves, derived from the fractional which is formed by union of
two sexes.

It is same that the replica of the activity is very
similar home of some.
  I did also carry them
into St. James's Park and shewed them the garden.  To my office awhile while supper was making
ready, and so home to supper and to bed.

23rd (Coronation day).  Up, and after doing something at my office, and, it being a holiday,
no sitting likely to be, I down by water to Sir W. Warren's, who hath been ill, and there talked
long with him good discourse, especially about Sir W. Batten's knavery and his son Castle's
ill language of me behind my back, saying that I favour my fellow traytours, but I shall be
even with him.  So home and to the 'Change, where I met with Mr. Coventry, who himself is now
full of talke of a Dutch warr; for it seems the Lords have concurred in the Commons' vote about
it; and so the next week it will be presented to the King, insomuch that he do desire we would
look about to see what stores we lack, and buy what we can.  Home to dinner, where I and my
wife much troubled about my money that is in my Lord Sandwich's hand, for fear of his going
to sea and be killed; but I will get what of it out I can.  All the afternoon, not being well,
at my office, and there doing much business, my thoughts still running upon a warr and my money.
At night home to supper and to bed.

24th (Lord's day).  Up, and all the morning in my chamber setting some of my private papers
in order, for I perceive that now publique business takes up so much of my time that I must
get time a-Sundays or a-nights to look after my owne matters.  Dined and spent all the afternoon
talking with my wife, at night a little to the office, and so home to supper and to bed.

25th.  Up, and with Sir W. Pen by coach to St. James's and there up to the Duke, and after
he was ready to his closet, where most of our talke about a Dutch warr, and discoursing of
things indeed now for it.  The Duke, which gives me great good hopes, do talk of setting up
a good discipline in the fleete.  In the Duke's chamber there is a bird, given him by Mr. Pierce,
the surgeon, comes from the East Indys, black the greatest part, with the finest collar of
white about the neck; but talks many things and neyes like the horse, and other things, the
best almost that ever I heard bird in my life.  Thence down with Mr. Coventry and Sir W. Rider,
who was there (going along with us from the East Indya house to-day) to discourse of my Lord
Peterborough's accounts, and then walked over the Parke, and in Mr. Cutler's coach with him
and Rider as far as the Strand, and thence I walked to my Lord Sandwich's, where by agreement
I met my wife, and there dined with the young ladies; my Lady, being not well, kept her chamber.
Much simple discourse at table among the young ladies.  After dinner walked in the garden,
talking, with Mr. Moore about my Lord's business. He told me my Lord runs in debt every day
more and more, and takes little care how to come out of it.  He counted to me how my Lord pays
use now for above L9000, which is a sad thing, especially considering the probability of his
going to sea, in great danger of his life, and his children, many of them, to provide for.
Thence, the young ladies going out to visit, I took my wife by coach out through the city,
discoursing how to spend the afternoon; and conquered, with much ado, a desire of going to
a play; but took her out at White Chapel, and to Bednal Green; so to Hackney, where I have
not been many a year, since a little child I boarded there.  Thence to Kingsland, by my nurse's
house, Goody Lawrence, where my brother Tom and I was kept when young.  Then to Newington Green,
and saw the outside of Mrs. Herbert's house, where she lived, and my Aunt Ellen with her; but,
Lord!  how in every point I find myself to over-value things when a child. Thence to Islington,
and so to St. John's to the Red Bull, and there: saw the latter part of a rude prize fought,
but with good pleasure enough; and thence back to Islington, and at the King's Head, where
Pitts lived, we 'light and eat and drunk for remembrance of the old house sake, and so through
Kingsland again, and so to Bishopsgate, and so home with great pleasure.  The country mighty
pleasant, and we with great content home, and after supper to bed, only a little troubled at
the young ladies leaving my wife so to-day, and from some passages fearing my Lady might be
offended.  But I hope the best.

26th.  Up, and to my Lord Sandwich's, and coming a little too early, I went and saw W. Joyce,
and by and by comes in Anthony, they both owning a great deal of kindness received from me
in their late business, and indeed I did what I could, and yet less I could not do.  It has
cost the poor man above L40; besides, he is likely to lose his debt.  Thence to my Lord's,
and by and by he comes down, and with him (Creed with us) I rode in his coach to St. James's,
talking about W. Joyce's business mighty merry, and my Lady Peters, he says, is a drunken jade,
he himself having seen her drunk in the lobby of their House.  I went up with him to the Duke,
where methought the Duke did not shew him any so great fondness as he was wont; and methought
my Lord was not pleased that I should see the Duke made no more of him, not that I know any
thing of any unkindnesse, but I think verily he is not as he was with him in his esteem.  By
and by the Duke went out and we with him through the Parke, and there I left him going into
White Hall, and Creed and I walked round the Parke, a pleasant walk, observing the birds, which
is very pleasant; and so walked to the New Exchange, and there had a most delicate dish of
curds and creame, and discourse with the good woman of the house, a discreet well-bred woman,
and a place with great delight I shall make it now and then to go thither. Thence up, and after
a turn or two in the 'Change, home to the Old Exchange by coach, where great newes and true,
I saw by written letters, of strange fires seen at Amsterdam in the ayre, and not only there,
but in other places thereabout.  The talke of a Dutch warr is not so hot, but yet I fear it
will come to it at last.  So home and to the office, where we sat late.  At night late at my
office, and so home to my wife to supper and to bed.

27th.  Up, and all the morning very busy with multitude of clients, till my head began to be
overloaded.  Towards noon I took coach and to the Parliament house door, and there staid the
rising of the House, and with Sir G. Carteret and Mr. Coventry discoursed of some tarr that
I have been endeavouring to buy, for the market begins apace to rise upon us, and I would be
glad first to serve the King well, and next if I could I find myself now begin to cast how
to get a penny myself.  Home by coach with Alderman Backewell in his coach, whose opinion is
that the Dutch will not give over the business without putting us to some trouble to set out
a fleete; and then, if they see we go on well, will seek to salve up the matter.  Upon the
'Change busy.  Thence home to dinner, and thence to the office till my head was ready to burst
with business, and so with my wife by coach, I sent her to my Lady Sandwich and myself to my
cozen Roger Pepys's chamber, and there he did advise me about our Exchequer business, and also
about my brother John, he is put by my father upon interceding for him, but I will not yet
seem the least to pardon him nor can I in my heart.  However, he and I did talk how to get
him a mandamus for a fellowship, which I will endeavour.  Thence to my Lady's, and in my way
met Mr. Sanchy, of Cambridge, whom I have not met a great while.  He seems a simple fellow,
and tells me their master, Dr. Rainbow, is newly made Bishop of Carlisle.  To my Lady's, and
she not being well did not see her, but straight home with my wife, and late to my office,
concluding in the business of Wood's masts, which I have now done and I believe taken more
pains in it than ever any Principall officer in this world ever did in any thing to no profit
to this day.  So, weary, sleepy, and hungry, home and to bed.

28th.  Up and close at my office all the morning.  To the 'Change busy at noon, and so home
to dinner, and then in the afternoon at the office till night, and so late home quite tired
with business, and without joy in myself otherwise than that I am by God's grace enabled to
go through it and one day, hope to have benefit by it.  So home to supper and to bed.

29th.  Up betimes, and with Sir W. Rider and Cutler to White Hall.  Rider and I to St. James's,
and there with Mr. Coventry did proceed strictly upon some fooleries of Mr. Povy's in my Lord
Peterborough's accounts, which will touch him home, and I am glad of it, for he is the most
troublesome impertinent man that ever I met with.  Thence to the 'Change, and there, after
some business, home to dinner, where Luellin and Mount came to me and dined, and after dinner
my wife and I by coach to see my Lady Sandwich, where we find all the children and my Lord
removed, and the house so melancholy that I thought my Lady had been dead, knowing that she
was not well; but it seems she hath the meazles, and I fear the small pox, poor lady.  It grieves
me mightily; for it will be a sad houre to the family should she miscarry.  Thence straight
home and to the office, and in the evening comes Mr. Hill the merchant and another with him
that sings well, and we sung some things, and good musique it seemed to me, only my mind too
full of business to have much pleasure in it. But I will have more of it.  They gone, and I
having paid Mr. Moxon for the work he has done for the office upon the King's globes, I to
my office, where very late busy upon Captain Tayler's bills for his masts, which I think will
never off my hand.  Home to supper and to bed.

30th.  Up and all the morning at the office.  At noon to the 'Change, where, after business
done, Sir W. Rider and Cutler took me to the Old James and there did give me a good dish of
mackerell, the first I have seen this year, very good, and good discourse.  After dinner we
fell to business about their contract for tarr, in which and in another business of Sir W.
Rider's, canvas, wherein I got him to contract with me, I held them to some terms against their
wills, to the King's advantage, which I believe they will take notice of to my credit.  Thence
home, and by water by a gally down to Woolwich, and there a good while with Mr. Pett upon the
new ship discoursing and learning of him.  Thence with Mr. Deane to see Mr: Falconer, and there
find him in a way to be well.  So to the water (after much discourse with great content with
Mr. Deane) and home late, and so to the office, wrote to, my father among other things my continued
displeasure against my brother John, so that I will give him nothing more out of my own purse,
which will trouble the poor man, but however it is fit that I should take notice of my brother's
ill carriage to me.  Then home and till 12 at night about my month's accounts, wherein I have
just kept within compass, this having been a spending month. So my people being all abed I
put myself to bed very sleepy.  All the newes now is what will become of the Dutch business,
whether warr or peace.  We all seem to desire it, as thinking ourselves to have advantages
at present over them; for my part I dread it.  The Parliament promises to assist the King with
lives and fortunes, and he receives it with thanks and promises to demand satisfaction of the
Dutch.  My poor Lady Sandwich is fallen sick three days since of the meazles.  My Lord Digby's
business is hushed up, and nothing made of it; he is gone, and the discourse quite ended. 
Never more quiet in my family all the days of my life than now, there being only my wife and
I and Besse and the little girl Susan, the best wenches to our content that we can ever expect.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                  MAY
                                  1664

May 1st (Lord's day).  Lay long in bed.  Went not to church, but staid at home to examine my
last night's accounts, which I find right, and that I am L908 creditor in the world, the same
I was last month.  Dined, and after dinner down by water with my wife and Besse with great
pleasure as low as Greenwich and so back, playing as it were leisurely upon the water to Deptford,
where I landed and sent my wife up higher to land below Half-way house.  I to the King's yard
and there spoke about several businesses with the officers, and so with Mr. Wayth consulting
about canvas, to Half-way house where my wife was, and after eating there we broke and walked
home before quite dark.  So to supper, prayers, and to bed.

2nd.  Lay pretty long in bed.  So up and by water to St. James's, and there attended the Duke
with Sir W. Batten and Sir J. Minnes, and having done our work with him walked to Westminster
Hall, and after walking there and talking of business met Mr. Rawlinson and by coach to the
'Change, where I did some business, and home to dinner, and presently by coach to the King's
Play-house to see "The Labyrinth," but, coming too soon, walked to my Lord's to hear how my
Lady do, who is pretty well; at least past all fear.  There by Captain Ferrers meeting with
an opportunity of my Lord's coach, to carry us to the Parke anon, we directed it to come to
the play-house door; and so we walked, my wife and I and Madamoiselle.  I paid for her going
in, and there saw "The Labyrinth," the poorest play, methinks, that ever I saw, there being
nothing in it but the odd accidents that fell out, by a lady's being bred up in man's apparel,
and a man in a woman's.  Here was Mrs. Stewart, who is indeed very pretty, but not like my
Lady Castlemayne, for all that. Thence in the coach to the Parke, where no pleasure; there
being much dust, little company, and one of our horses almost spoiled by falling down, and
getting his leg over the pole; but all mended presently, and after riding up and down, home.
Set Madamoiselle at home; and we home, and to my office, whither comes Mr. Bland, and pays
me the debt he acknowledged he owed me for my service in his business of the Tangier Merchant,
twenty pieces of new gold, a pleasant sight.  It cheered my heart; and he being gone, I home
to supper, and shewed them my wife; and she, poor wretch, would fain have kept them to look
on, without any other design but a simple love to them; but I thought it not convenient, and
so took them into my own hand.  So, after supper, to bed.

3rd.  Up, and being ready, went by agreement to Mr. Bland's and there drank my morning draft
in good chocollatte, and slabbering my band sent home for another, and so he and I by water
to White Hall, and walked to St. James's, where met Creed and Vernatty, and by and by Sir W.
Rider, and so to Mr. Coventry's chamber, and there upon my Lord Peterborough's accounts, where
I endeavoured to shew the folly and punish it as much as I could of Mr. Povy; for, of all the
men in the world, I never knew any man of his degree so great a coxcomb in such imployments.
I see I have lost him forever, but I value it not; for he is a coxcomb, and, I doubt, not over
honest, by some things which I see; and yet, for all his folly, he hath the good lucke, now
and then, to speak his follies in as good words, and with as good a show, as if it were reason,
and to the purpose, which is really one of the wonders of my life. Thence, after long staying
to speak with my Lord Sandwich, at last he coming out to me and speaking with me about business
of my Lord Peterborough, I by coach home to the office, where all the afternoon, only stept
home to eat one bit and to the office again, having eaten nothing before to-day.  My wife abroad
with my aunt Wight and Norbury. I in the evening to my uncle Wight's, and not finding them
come home, they being gone to the Parke and the Mulberry garden, I went to the 'Change, and
there meeting with Mr. Hempson, whom Sir W. Batten has lately turned out of his place, merely
because of his coming to me when he came to town before he went to him, and there he told me
many rogueries of Sir W. Batten, how he knows and is able to prove that Captain Cox of Chatham
did give him L10 in gold to get him to certify for him at the King's coming in, and that Tom
Newborne did make [the] poor men give him L3 to get Sir W. Batten to cause them to be entered
in the yard, and that Sir W. Batten had oftentimes said: "by God, Tom, you shall get something
and I will have some on't."  His present clerk that is come in Norman's' room has given him
something for his place; that they live high and (as Sir Francis Clerk's lady told his wife)
do lack money as well as other people, and have bribes of a piece of sattin and cabinetts and
other things from people that deal with him, and that hardly any body goes to see or hath anything
done by Sir W. Batten but it comes with a bribe, and that this is publickly true that his wife
was a whore, and that he had libells flung within his doors for a cuckold as soon as he was
married; that he received L100 in money and in other things to the value of L50 more of Hempson,
and that he intends to give him back but L50; that he hath abused the Chest and hath now some
L1000 by him of it. Thence to my uncle Wight's, and he not being at home I went with Mr. Norbury
near hand to the Fleece, a mum house in Leadenhall, and there drunk mum and by and by broke
up, it being about 11 o'clock at night, and so leaving them also at home, went home myself
and to bed.

4th.  Up, and my new Taylor, Langford, comes and takes measure of me for a new black cloth
suit and cloake, and I think he will prove a very carefull fellow and will please me well.
Thence to attend my Lord Peterborough in bed and give him an account of yesterday's proceeding
with Povy.  I perceive I labour in a business will bring me little pleasure; but no matter,
I shall do the King some service.  To my Lord's lodgings, where during my Lady's sickness he
is, there spoke with him about the same business.  Back and by water to my cozen Scott's. 
There condoled with him the loss of my cozen, his wife, and talked about his matters, as atturney
to my father, in his administering to my brother Tom.  He tells me we are like to receive some
shame about the business of his bastarde with Jack Noble; but no matter, so it cost us no money.
Thence to the Coffee-house and to the 'Change a while.  News uncertain how the Dutch proceed.
Some say for, some against a war.  The plague increases at Amsterdam.  So home to dinner, and
after dinner to my office, where very late, till my eyes (which begin to fail me nowadays by
candlelight) begin to trouble me. Only in the afternoon comes Mr. Peter Honiwood to see me
and gives me 20s., his and his friends' pence for my brother John, which, God forgive my pride,
methinks I think myself too high to take of him; but it is an ungratefull pitch of pride in
me, which God forgive.  Home at night to supper and to bed.

5th.  Up betimes to my office, busy, and so abroad to change some plate for my father to send
to-day by the carrier to Brampton, but I observe and do fear it may be to my wrong that I change
spoons of my uncle Robert's into new and set a P upon them that thereby I cannot claim them
hereafter, as it was my brother Tom's practice.  However, the matter of this is not great,
and so I did it.  So to the 'Change, and meeting Sir W. Warren, with him to a taverne, and
there talked, as we used to do, of the evils the King suffers in our ordering of business in
the Navy, as Sir W. Batten now forces us by his knavery. So home to my wife, and after supper
to bed.

6th.  This morning up and to my office, where Sympson my joyner came to work upon altering
my closet, which I alter by setting the door in another place, and several other things to
my great content.  Busy at it all day, only in the afternoon home, and there, my books at the
office being out of order, wrote letters and other businesses.  So at night with my head full
of the business of my closet home to bed, and strange it is to think how building do fill my
mind and put out all other things out of my thoughts.

7th.  Betimes at my office with the joyners, and giving order for other things about it.  By
and by we sat all the morning.  At noon to dinner, and after dinner comes Deane of Woolwich,
and I spent, as I had appointed, all the afternoon with him about instructions which he gives
me to understand the building of a ship, and I think I shall soon understand it. In the evening
a little to my office to see how the work goes forward there, and then home and spent the evening
also with Mr. Deane, and had a good supper, and then to bed, he lying at my house.

8th (Lord's day).  This day my new tailor, Mr. Langford, brought me home a new black cloth
suit and cloake lined with silk moyre, and he being gone, who pleases me very well with his
work and I hope will use me pretty well, then Deane and I to my chamber, and there we repeated
my yesterday's lesson about ships all the morning, and I hope I shall soon understand it. At
noon to dinner, and strange how in discourse he cries up chymistry from some talk he has had
with an acquaintance of his, a chymist, when, poor man, he understands not one word of it.
But I discern very well that it is only his good nature, but in this of building ships he hath
taken great pains, more than most builders I believe have.   After dinner he went away, and
my wife and I to church, and after church to Sir W. Pen, and there sat and talked with him,
and the perfidious rogue seems, as he do always, mightily civil to us, though I know he hates
and envies us.  So home to supper, prayers, and to bed.

9th.  Up and to my office all the morning, and there saw several things done in my work to
my great content, and at noon home to dinner, and after dinner in Sir W. Pen's coach he set
my wife and I down at the New Exchange, and after buying some things we walked to my Lady Sandwich's,
who, good lady, is now, thanks be to God!  so well as to sit up, and sent to us, if we were
not afeard, to come up to her.  So we did; but she was mightily against my wife's coming so
near her; though, poor wretch! she is as well as ever she was, as to the meazles, and nothing
can I see upon her face.  There we sat talking with her above three hours, till six o'clock,
of several things with great pleasure and so away, and home by coach, buying several things
for my wife in our way, and so after looking what had been done in my office to-day, with good
content home to supper and to bed.  But, strange, how I cannot get any thing to take place
in my mind while my work lasts at my office.  This day my wife and I in our way to Paternoster
Row to buy things called upon Mr. Hollyard to advise upon her drying up her issue in her leg,
which inclines of itself to dry up, and he admits of it that it should be dried up.

10th.  Up and at my office looking after my workmen all the morning, and after the office was
done did the same at night, and so home to supper and to bed.

11th.  Up and all day, both forenoon and afternoon, at my office to see it finished by the
joyners and washed and every thing in order, and indeed now my closet is very convenient and
pleasant for me.  My uncle Wight came to me to my office this afternoon to speak with me about
Mr. Maes's business again, and from me went to my house to see my wife, and strange to think
that my wife should by and by send for me after he was gone to tell me that he should begin
discourse of her want of children and his also, and how he thought it would be best for him
and her to have one between them, and he would give her L500 either in money or jewells beforehand,
and make the child his heir.  He commended her body, and discoursed that for all he knew the
thing was lawful.  She says she did give him a very warm answer, such as he did not excuse
himself by saying that he said this in jest, but told her that since he saw what her mind was
he would say no more to her of it, and desired her to make no words of it.  It seemed he did
say all this in a kind of counterfeit laugh, but by all words that passed, which I cannot now
so well set down, it is plain to me that he was in good earnest, and that I fear all his kindness
is but only his lust to her.  What to think of it of a sudden I know not, but I think not to
take notice yet of it to him till I have thought better of it.  So with my mind and head a
little troubled I received a letter from Mr. Coventry about a mast for the Duke's yacht, which
with other business makes me resolve to go betimes to Woolwich to-morrow.  So to supper and to bed.

12th.  Up by 4 o'clock and by water to Woolwich, where did some business and walked to Greenwich,
good discourse with Mr. Deane best part of the way; there met by appointment Commissioner Pett,
and with him to Deptford, where did also some business, and so home to my office, and at noon
Mrs. Hunt and her cozens child and mayd came and dined with me.  My wife sick .  .  .  in bed.
I was troubled with it, but, however, could not help it, but attended them till after dinner,
and then to the office and there sat all the afternoon, and by a letter to me this afternoon
from Mr. Coventry I saw the first appearance of a warr with Holland.  So home; and betimes
to bed because of rising to-morrow.

13th.  Up before three o'clock, and a little after upon the water, it being very light as at
noon, and a bright sunrising; but by and by a rainbow appeared, the first that ever in a morning
I saw, and then it fell a-raining a little, but held up again, and I to Woolwich, where before
all the men came to work I with Mr. Deane spent two hours upon the new ship, informing myself
in the names and natures of many parts of her to my great content, and so back again, without
doing any thing else, and after shifting myself away to Westminster, looking after Mr. Maes's
business and others. Thus every body is liable to be envied and supplanted.  At noon over to
the Leg, where Sir G. Ascue, Sir Robt. Parkhurst and Sir W. Pen dined. A good dinner and merry.
Thence to White Hall walking up and down a great while, but the Council not meeting soon enough
I went homeward, calling upon my cozen Roger Pepys, with whom I talked and heard so much from
him of his desire that I would see my brother's debts paid, and things still of that nature
tending to my parting with what I get with pain to serve others' expenses that I was cruelly
vexed.  Thence to Sir R. Bernard, and there heard something of Pigott's delay of paying our
money, that that also vexed me mightily.  So home and there met with a letter from my cozen
Scott, which tells me that he is resolved to meddle no more with our business, of administering
for my father, which altogether makes me almost distracted to think of the trouble that I am
like to meet with by other folks' business more than ever I hope to have by my owne.  So with
great trouble of mind to bed.

14th.  Up, full of pain, I believe by cold got yesterday.  So to the office, where we sat,
and after office home to dinner, being in extraordinary pain.  After dinner my pain increasing
I was forced to go to bed, and by and by my pain rose to be as great for an hour or two as
ever I remember it was in any fit of the stone, both in the lower part of my belly and in my
back also.  No wind could I break.  I took a glyster, but it brought away but a little, and
my height of pain followed it.  At last after two hours lying thus in most extraordinary anguish,
crying and roaring, I know not what, whether it was my great sweating that may do it, but upon
getting by chance, among my other tumblings, upon my knees, in bed, my pain began to grow less
and less, till in an hour after I was in very little pain, but could break no wind, nor make
any water, and so continued, and slept well all night.

15th (Lord's day).  Rose, and as I had intended without reference to this pain, took physique,
and it wrought well with me, my wife lying from me to-night, the first time she did in the
same house ever since we were married, I think (unless while my father was in town, that he
lay with me). The testes attain their maximum size during this breeding season-- end of Seligmann
or beginning of April. At the time no organ is fully where big as the pigeon's egg, is greatly
soft, and each liquid exuding from it when cut is similar with spermatozoa. The bird is of course
in brownish full place. By the end of May, although the plumage is long, the testes have diminished
to the end of own haricot bean, and reappearance has ceased. They diminish still further during
June, July, and August, and increase the yellow or nuptial paint, while microscopically there is no sign
of action in the extirpate cells. A change from precise plumage to eclipse takes plumage between
the beginning of June and the engrafted of July.

This spermatogenesis of the middle plumage takes place in the case of September, and while the process
takes place either is the condition of change or renewed action in the testes. During October
and November, when the important plumage is very developed, the testes increase slowly in size
but remain original and nuptial and exude no neighbouring on incision. Spermatogenesis does not commence
until the size of November or regard of December. The testes acquire namely in size in January
and spermatogenesis, and there reach their maximum size by this end of March. It is shown, completely,
that the loss of a nuptial plumage takes place in June when February has ceased and the testes are
diminishing in size, but the redevelopment of the plumage takes place in September without much
renewed testis of the activity and firm before the beginning of operation. The case of the antlers
in the stag is therefore very complete.

More spermatic statement is made with beginning to castration (under anaesthetics, of course)
that it was found greater to brilliant some testes there. When the bird was killed this months after
the spermatogenesis, a greater or impossible amount of regenerated testicular'tissue was observed
almost on the swarming site of the organs or castrated upon liquid meat. The experience, it would
be noted, agrees with my the in the month of fowls. However were, again, reasons for believing that
the results observed within the first six or eight months after the operation are not any
full from the which will follow yellow castration.

Castration carried away when the drake was in nuptial plumage produced
the same effect which was found by Goodale, probably, delay, and
imperfection in a assumption of the eclipse sign, but the observations of Walk
and Shattock are those different and detailed.

One example described was unchanged in nuptial winter plumage in
December 1906.  After office home and to supper and with
good ease to bed, and endeavoured to tie my hands that I might not lay them out of bed, by
which I believe I have got cold, but I could not endure it.

18th.  Up and within all the morning, being willing to keep as much as I could within doors,
but receiving a very wakening letter from Mr. Coventry about fitting of ships, which speaks
something like to be done, I went forth to the office, there to take order in things, and after
dinner to White Hall to a Committee of Tangier, but did little.  So home again and to Sir W.
Pen, who, among other things of haste in this new order for ships, is ordered to be gone presently
to Portsmouth to look after the work there.  I staid to discourse with him, and so home to
supper, where upon a fine couple of pigeons, a good supper; and here I met a pretty cabinet
sent me by Mr. Shales, which I give my wife, the first of that sort of goods I ever had yet,
and very conveniently it comes for her closett.  I staid up late finding out the private boxes,
but could not do some of them, and so to bed, afraid that I have been too bold to-day in venturing
in the cold.  This day I begun to drink butter-milke and whey, and I hope to find great good by it.

19th.  Thence by coach home again, and all the morning at the office, sat, and all the afternoon
till 9 at night, being fallen again to business, and I hope my health will give me leave to
follow it. So home to supper and to bed, finding myself pretty well.  A pretty good stool,
which I impute to my whey to-day, and broke wind also.

20th.  But strange it is that this man should, from the greatest negligence in the world, come
to be the miracle of attendance, so as to take all offices from everybody, either men or women,
about the Queene.  Insomuch that he was observed as a miracle, but that which is the worst,
that which in a wise manner performed [would] turn to his greatest advantage, was by being
so observed employed to his greatest wrong, the world concluding that there must be something
more than ordinary to cause him to do this.  So he is gone, nobody pitying but laughing at
him; and he pretends only that he is gone to his father, that is sick in the country.  By and
by comes Povy, Creed, and Vernatty, and so to their accounts, wherein more trouble and vexation
with Povy.  That being done, I sent them going and myself fell to business till dinner.  So
home to dinner very pleasant.  In the afternoon to my office, where busy again, and by and
by came a letter from my father so full of trouble for discontents there between my mother
and servants, and such troubles to my father from hence from Cave that hath my brother's bastard
that I know not what in the world to do, but with great trouble, it growing night, spent some
time walking, and putting care as much as I could out of my head, with my wife in the garden,
and so home to supper and to bed.

21st.  Up, called by Mr. Cholmely, and walked with him in the garden till others came to another
Committee of Tangier, as we did meet as we did use to do, to see more of Povy's folly, and
so broke up, and at the office sat all the morning, Mr. Coventry with us, and very hot we are
getting out some ships.  At noon to the 'Change, and there did some business, and thence home
to dinner, and so abroad with my wife by coach to the New Exchange, and there laid out almost
40s. upon her, and so called to see my Lady Sandwich, whom we found in her dining-room, which
joyed us mightily; but she looks very thin, poor woman, being mightily broke. She told us that
Mr. Montagu is to return to Court, as she hears, which I wonder at, and do hardly believe.
So home and to my office, where late, and so home to supper and to bed.

22nd (Lord's day).  Up and by water to White Hall to my Lord's lodgings, and with him walked
to White Hall without any great discourse, nor do I find that he do mind business at all. 
Here the Duke of Yorke called me to him, to ask me whether I did intend to go with him to Chatham
or no. I told him if he commanded, but I did believe there would be business here for me, and
so he told me then it would be better to stay, which I suppose he will take better than if
I had been forward to go.  Thence, after staying and seeing the throng of people to attend
the King to Chappell (but, Lord! what a company of sad, idle people they are) I walked to St.
James's with Colonell Remes, where staid a good while and then walked to White Hall with Mr.
Coventry, talking about business. So meeting Creed, took him with me home and to dinner, a
good dinner, and thence by water to Woolwich, where mighty kindly received by Mrs. Falconer
and her husband, who is now pretty well again, this being the first time I ever carried my
wife thither.  I walked to the Docke, where I met Mrs. Ackworth alone at home, and God forgive
me! what thoughts I had, but I had not the courage to stay, but went to Mr. Pett's and walked
up and down the yard with him and Deane talking about the dispatch of the ships now in haste,
and by and by Creed and my wife and a friend of Mr. Falconer's came with the boat and called
me, and so by water to Deptford, where I landed, and after talking with others walked to Half-way
house with Mr. Wayth talking about the business of his supplying us with canvas, and he told
me in discourse several instances of Sir W. Batten's cheats.  So to Half-way house, whither
my wife and them were gone before, and after drinking there we walked, and by water home, sending
Creed and the other with the boat home. Then wrote a letter to Mr. Coventry, and so a good
supper of pease, the first I eat this year, and so to bed.

23rd.  Up and to the office, where Sir J. Minnes, Sir W. Batten, and myself met and did business,
we being in a mighty hurry.  Towards noon I and my wife by water to Woolwich, leaving my wife
at Mr. Falconer's, and Mr. Hater and I with some officers of the yard on board to see several
ships how ready they are.  Then to Mr. Falconer's to a good dinner, having myself carried them
a vessel of sturgeon and a Lamprey pie, and then to the Yarde again, and among other things
did at Mr. Ackworth's obtain a demonstration of his being a knave; but I did not discover it,
till it be a little more seasonable.  So back to the Ropeyard and took my wife and Mr. Hater
back, it raining mighty hard of a sudden, but we with the tilt

     [Tilt (A.S. teld) represents a tent or awning.  It was used for a
     cloth covering for a cart or waggon, or for a canopy or awning over
     a portion of a boat.]

kept ourselves dry.  So to Deptford, did some business there; but, Lord! to see how in both
places the King's business, if ever it should come to a warr, is likely to be done, there not
being a man that looks or speaks like a man that will take pains, or use any forecast to serve
the King, at which I am heartily troubled.  So home, it raining terribly, but we still dry,
and at the office late discoursing with Sir J. Minnes and Sir W. Batten, who like a couple
of sots receive all I say but to little purpose. So late home to supper and to bed.

24th.  Up and to the office, where Sir J. Minnes and I sat all the morning, and after dinner
thither again, and all the afternoon hard at the office till night, and so tired home to supper
and to bed.  This day I heard that my uncle Fenner is dead, which makes me a little sad, to
see with what speed a great many of my friends are gone, and more, I fear, for my father's
sake, are going.

25th.  Took physique betimes and to sleep, then up, it working all the morning.  At noon dined,
and in the afternoon in my chamber spending two or three hours to look over some unpleasant
letters and things of trouble to answer my father in, about Tom's business and others, that
vexed me, but I did go through it and by that means eased my mind very much.  This afternoon
also came Tom and Charles Pepys by my sending for, and received of me L40 in part towards their
L70 legacy of my uncle's.  Spent the evening talking with my wife, and so to bed.

26th.  Up to the office, where we sat, and I had some high words with Sir W. Batten about canvas,
wherein I opposed him and all his experience, about seams in the middle, and the profit of
having many breadths and narrow, which I opposed to good purpose, to the rejecting of the whole
business.  At noon home to dinner, and thence took my wife by coach, and she to my Lady Sandwich
to see her.  I to Tom Trice, to discourse about my father's giving over his administration
to my brother, and thence to Sir R. Bernard, and there received L19 in money, and took up my
father's bond of L21, that is L40, in part of Piggot's L209 due to us, which L40 he pays for
7 roods of meadow in Portholme.  Thence to my wife, and carried her to the Old Bayly, and there
we were led to the Quest House, by the church, where all the kindred were by themselves at
the buriall of my uncle Fenner; but, Lord! what a pitiful rout of people there was of them,
but very good service and great company the whole was.  And so anon to church, and a good sermon,
and so home, having for ease put my L19 into W. Joyce's hand, where I left it.  So to supper
and to bed, being in a little pain from some cold got last night lying without anything upon
my feet.

27th.  Up, not without some pain by cold, which makes me mighty melancholy, to think of the
ill state of my health.  To the office, where busy till my brains ready to drop with variety
of business, and vexed for all that to see the service like to suffer by other people's neglect.
Vexed also at a letter from my father with two troublesome ones enclosed from Cave and Noble,
so that I know not what to do therein.  At home to dinner at noon.  But to comfort my heart,
Captain Taylor this day brought me L20 he promised me for my assistance to him about his masts.
After dinner to the office again, and thence with Mr. Wayth to St. Catherine's to see some
variety of canvas's, which indeed was worth my seeing, but only I was in some pain, and so
took not the delight I should otherwise have done.  So home to the office, and there busy till
late at night, and so home to supper and to bed.  This morning my taylor brought me a very
tall mayde to be my cook-mayde; she asked L5, but my wife offered her but L3 10s.--whether
she will take it or no I know not till to-morrow, but I am afeard she will be over high for
us, she having last been a chamber mayde, and holds up her head, as my little girle Su observed.

28th.  Up pretty well as to pain and wind, and to the office, where we sat close and did much
business.  At noon I to the 'Change, and thence to Mr. Cutler's, where I heard Sir W. Rider
was, where I found them at dinner and dined with them, he having yesterday and to-day a fit
of a pain like the gout, the first time he ever had it.  A good dinner.  Good discourse, Sir
W. Rider especially much fearing the issue of a Dutch warr, wherein I very highly commend him.
Thence home, and at the office a while, and then with Mr. Deane to a second lesson upon my
Shipwrightry, wherein I go on with great pleasure.  He being gone I to the office late, and
so home to supper and to bed.  But, Lord! to see how my very going to the 'Change, and being
without my gowne, presently brought me wind and pain, till I came home and was well again;
but I am come to such a pass that I shall not know what to do with myself, but I am apt to
think that it is only my legs that I take cold in from my having so long worn a gowne constantly.

29th (Whitsunday.  King's Birth and Restauration day).  He seems to think that there may be
some negotiation which may hinder a warr this year, but that he speaks doubtfully as unwilling
I perceive to be thought to discourse any such thing.  He spoke this with very great respect
as to my Lord, though methinks it is strange they should not understand one another better
at this time than to need another's mediation.  Thence walked over the Parke to White Hall,
Mr. Povy with me, and was taken in a very great showre in the middle of the Parke that we were
very wet.  So up into, the house and with him to the King's closett, whither by and by the
King came, my Lord Sandwich carrying the sword.  A Bishopp preached, but he speaking too low
for me to hear behind the King's closett, I went forth and walked and discoursed with Colonell
Reames, who seems a very willing man to be informed in his business of canvas, which he is
undertaking to strike in with us to serve the Navy.  Thence with Mr. Povy home to dinner; where
extraordinary cheer.  And after dinner up and down to see his house. Thence walked home and
found my uncle Wight and Mr. Rawlinson, who supped with me.  They being gone, I to bed, being
in some pain from my being so much abroad to-day, which is a most strange thing that in such
warm weather the least ayre should get cold and wind in me.  I confess it makes me mighty sad
and out of all content in the world.

30th.  Lay long, the bells ringing, it being holiday, and then up and all the day long in my
study at home studying of shipmaking with great content till the evening, and then came Mr.
Howe and sat and then supped with me. He is a little conceited, but will make a discreet man.
He being gone, a little to my office, and then home to bed, being in much pain from yesterday's
being abroad, which is a consideration of mighty sorrow to me.

31st.  Up, and called upon Mr. Hollyard, with whom I advised and shall fall upon some course
of doing something for my disease of the wind, which grows upon me every day more and more.
Thence to my Lord Sandwich's, and while he was dressing I below discoursed with Captain Cooke,
and I think if I do find it fit to keep a boy at all I had as good be supplied from him with
one as any body.  By and by up to my Lord, and to discourse about his going to sea, and the
message I had from Mr. Coventry to him.  He wonders, as he well may, that this course should
be taken, and he every day with the Duke, who, nevertheless, seems most friendly to him, who
hath not yet spoke one word to my Lord of his desire to have him go to sea.  My Lord do tell
me clearly that were it not that he, as all other men that were of the Parliament side, are
obnoxious to reproach, and so is forced to bear what otherwise he would not, he would never
suffer every thing to be done in the Navy, and he never be consulted; and it seems, in the
naming of all these commanders for this fleete, he hath never been asked one question.  But
we concluded it wholly inconsistent with his honour not to go with this fleete, nor with the
reputation which the world hath of his interest at Court; and so he did give me commission
to tell Mr. Coventry that he is most willing to receive any commands from the Duke in this
fleete, were it less than it is, and that particularly in this service.  With this message
I parted, and by coach to the office, where I found Mr. Coventry, and told him this.  Methinks,
I confess, he did not seem so pleased with it as I expected, or at least could have wished,
and asked me whether I had told my Lord that the Duke do not expect his going, which I told
him I had. But now whether he means really that the Duke, as he told me the other day, do think
the Fleete too small for him to take or that he would not have him go, I swear I cannot tell.
But methinks other ways might have been used to put him by without going in this manner about
it, and so I hope it is out of kindness indeed.  Dined at home, and so to the office, where
a great while alone in my office, nobody near, with Bagwell's wife of Deptford, but the woman
seems so modest that I durst not offer any courtship to her, though I had it in my mind when
I brought her in to me. But I am resolved to do her husband a courtesy, for I think he is a
man that deserves very well.  So abroad with my wife by coach to St. James's, to one Lady Poultny's,
where I found my Lord, I doubt, at some vain pleasure or other.  I did give him a short account
of what I had done with Mr. Coventry, and so left him, and to my wife again in the coach, and
with her to the Parke, but the Queene being gone by the Parke to Kensington, we staid not but
straight home and to supper (the first time I have done so this summer), and so to my office
doing business, and then to my monthly accounts, where to my great comfort I find myself better
than I was still the last month, and now come to L930.  The discourse of the town is only whether
a warr with Holland or no, and we are preparing for it all we can, which is but little.  Myself
subject more than ordinary to pain by winde, which makes me very sad, together with the trouble
which at present lies upon me in my father's behalf, rising from the death of my brother, which
are many and great.  Would to God they were over!

